Damn shame. Let me know when sitting eases depression. &gt;You don't have to drink yourself to death. 

I don't *have* to, but what if I *want* to? How much do I need to drink?

 Thesidewalk's for regular walking, not for fancy walking. I have had a couple of depressive episodes, and have a generally depressive disposition.

If you are far enough in the hole that you're not enjoying sex or food, then it's not just a matter of snapping out of it. I can tell you that some things make it less likely that you'll snap into it.

For me, mindfulness meditation and exercise have cut down on depression. Meditation has prevented major life stresses from eroding my moods and confidence: I can go home after a bad day at work, read a book, sleep normally and get right back to work the next day. Meditation has helped me step outside myself and enjoy being alive moment-to-moment, and made me care a lot more about other people. Exercise seems to burn off some of the ugly thoughts that meditation doesn't. As somebody who has dealt with depression for quite a while, I have found that physical exercise is extremely helpful in positively changing my outlook and frame of mind.  When im depressed walks make me think of my ex and loneliness and i start crying in public. this isnt true for me. Doesn't take a brain surgeon to figure out that other people are missing out on treatment because the limited amount of laboratory resources available are being spent on cover-your-ass procedures that that the surgeons don't believe are medically necessary. Yeah...you know my first reply that linked to WHO? So, no funky walking well considering that the majority of circumcision in US happens without anesthesia would explain why is so traumatic.  Eh, I'm bipolar so I'm up right now. Are those dots all stars?  I mean I have a decent understanding of how many stars are in a galaxy and so on...but to actually see it is something else. That's a little dark. You're basically saying people with depression are beyond help. There are ways to get better for a lot of people. the majority of circumcision performed on newborn are done without anesthesia or using very little, there is a reason parents are not allowed at the circumcision room. Its painful and brutal.  That's amazing that they found that out because I always feel like going for a walk when I'm depressed. I usually feel better afterwards. It beats eating food and putting on the pounds.  Generic brand Cipralex. Its not perfect, but its loads better. Its gotten rid of enough mental inertia that i can exercise and eat right and socialize, and thats taking me even further toward good.  Where's the link?

EDIT: [Found it](http://www.spacetelescope.org/images/heic1502a/) the download links are on the right, mine's taking forever. 90-odd minutes on a ~120Mb/s down connection. Regular running can help ease depression even more. Go back and read it, man! You are the first person to even mention that "long" is also an English word.  is really not circumcision, but pain and trauma. The problem is that infant circumcision are usually very painful. If you think you can walk your depression away, you're in for a rude awakening Gee, I wonder why people might be suspicious of scientists. It's not like scientists have disdain for ordinary people's beliefs or anything. They are stars within the Milky Way galaxy, actual stars in the Andromeda Galaxy would be far too small to image at this resolution. You can definitely see larger structures such as clusters and nebulae, though.

Edit: Thanks for the downvotes. If I actually have something wrong it would be better to tell me rather than, you know, leave me in the dark. I'm assuming that since the angular resolution of Hubble is 0.05 arcseconds and a star the size of our sun at Andromeda's distance is 1.194588x10^-9 arcseconds, that individual stars are impossible to see with Hubble. I would love to be proven wrong because that would make the image much more beautiful, and awesome. Thank you for the explanation. 

Can we use rocks to separate hydrogen more easily from water? The sad thing  is  that the Andromeda galaxy as seen from the Earth is about seven Moon diameters wide and three high but the stars are so dim our eyes cannot see it. Sidewalk's for regular walkin', not for fancy walkin'.

Anyway, I'm off for a stroll.  Thanks.  I kind of lost my sense of scale when it started zooming in.  I couldn't tell if I was looking through a telescope or what was going on. This submission has been automatically removed. Please review the guidelines in the sidebar about the types of submissions that are appropriate for /r/science.

*[I am a bot](/r/AutoModerator/comments/q11pu/what_is_automoderator/), and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2Fscience) if you have any questions or concerns.* This submission has been automatically removed. Please review the guidelines in the sidebar about the types of submissions that are appropriate for /r/science.

*[I am a bot](/r/AutoModerator/comments/q11pu/what_is_automoderator/), and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2Fscience) if you have any questions or concerns.* Aromas are definitely therapeutic, no doubt about that.  There was also a study on some microorganism in healthy (forest etc.) dirt, which when given to mice dramatically increased mood. Very true, I believe it's case dependent Because it would have been cool if the results were verified.  I realize how corny this sounds, but if you need to talk, I'm here. I am by no means a cheerleader, of any kind, but... I am where you are. And surviving is what it is all about.

And if you don't want to talk, fuck that shit :) Adrenochrome

Chemical Composition
IUPAC name
3-hydroxy-1-methyl-2,3-dihydro-1H-indole-5,6-dione

Identifiers
CAS number	54-06-8 
PubChem	5898
ChemSpider	5687 Yes
Jmol-3D images	Image 1
SMILES
O=C1\C=C2/C(=C\C1=O)N(CC2O)C

InChI
InChI=1S/C9H9NO3/c1-10-4-9(13)5-2-7(11)8(12)3-6(5)10/h2-3,9,13H,4H2,1H3 Yes
Key: RPHLQSHHTJORHI-UHFFFAOYSA-N Yes

InChI=1/C9H9NO3/c1-10-4-9(13)5-2-7(11)8(12)3-6(5)10/h2-3,9,13H,4H2,1H3
Key: RPHLQSHHTJORHI-UHFFFAOYAD

Properties
Molecular formula	C9H9NO3
Molar mass	179.17 g mol1
Density	3.264 g/cm
Boiling point	(decomposes, 115-120 C)
Except where noted otherwise, data are given for materials in their standard state (at 25 C (77 F), 100 kPa)

DETAILS
Adrenochrome (catecholamine o-quinone),[1] chemical formula C9H9NO3, is a compound produced by the oxidation of adrenaline (epinephrine). The derivative carbazochrome is a hemostatic medication. It is unrelated to chrome (chromium)

https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:Adrenochrom.svg http://i.imgur.com/ok1e4EF.jpg http://i.imgur.com/Pvea63B.jpg  The first word in the story pretty much gives the game away. The real sadness comes from the fact that children have to suffer and even more will before some of these people will get it.   

The best thing that we as parents can do is ask if your pediatrician accepts unvaccinated children.  If they do, take your business elsewhere.  It's also never to late, ask k-12 schools if they have vaccination statistics on students.  If your looking at college ask the admissions office for stats.  Reason probably isn't going to work with these people. Read as regular wanking.  Doing research What you just described in number 1 is basically meditation, which *has* been shown to lessen depression. But meditation uses the sensation of breath instead of something to think about. keep surfing the web It's working out real fantastic, I haven't gotten up since I posted that 8 hours ago People should be encouraged to try, not to give up. They may try and fail, and that's alright. 

But don't encourage the "it's not going to work, so I just won't try" line of thinking. That's a rut that will suck in people whose goldfish *are* just missing, and then they'll never look, because why bother, they're probably dead anyway.  Many things are safe for consumption depending on dosage and to expect most people here to know what an msds is, let alone read one..well.  I always like to point out chloraseptic.  The active ingredient is phenol and what does the msds say. Very hazardous in case of skin contact, its a carcinogen, etc etc.  Honestly, as to the point of this thread, its ignorance that gives life to antivax and ignorance that makes the general public incapable of discerning the safety of chemicals whether its common like bleach or exotic like sildenafil citrate. I've definitely always found meditation tricky due to a combination of my mind wandering due to getting bored (I mean, I'm the sort of person who's a weight lifter instead of a cardio person largely because I find cardio mind-numbingly boring) and my mind randomly picking absolutely terrible things to try to fixate on.

Fuck, I listen to music going to sleep, preferably stuff I've heard a million times before so it doesn't jolt me awake out of a half-conscious state, to give my my mind a single external stimulus to fixate on instead of rapid-fire jumping between thoughts. I always feel awesome if I can start my day with some weight lifting.

Of course, the trick is actually getting out of bed in time to not be late to work. Not so much, its more about large scale geologic processes and interactions of water with a specific type of continental crust.  great to hear sir "NASA has released the largest picture ever taken of the Andromeda galaxy...",

 way different from "NASA releases the largest ever picture taken." Discovery of the century. Who knew. Eugenics programs are never a good answer to a problem stemming from ignorance and hubris.  The best solutions in this case are legislative. This is not mentioned in the article at all.  Its like you didn't even read it. Doesn't matter its still worth while to have views that make sense, ill go ahead and die earlier any day. Isn't it known that being in nature increases our mood? Which would make sense in this case. Is it because we don't get outside enough to have that sun exposure? Don't go to a pediatrician that see's unvaccinated children.  Ask schools about their vaccination stats for k-12 and if it isn't up to par like 90% then voice your concern.  Universities and colleges always like to show their safety stats to parents, so ask about vaccination stats and voice your concern if they have none or it's low.  In 5 to 10 years this same scenario will play out at a major college with students from all over the world. They are all stars in the galaxy Andromeda. You should also try walking faster, get your heart rate going even lightly jog for a little if you can, just be careful as its not good to jog on concrete. Climate change really is a crock of shit though, seriously research it from the angle of sources that don't get grant money for researching it (i.e. nothing to gain from saying "oh yeah sure it's real and anyone that says otherwise is a right wing nutjob) What does that matter?  The replication research is open source so many reputable scientists will try for themselves.  Eventually a name you respect will show it's legit.  What will you think then?  People who think Rossi is scamming don't understand the chess game he is playing.  Coming off as a scammer has bought him valuable time and kept him in the shadows.  It's genius.  The guy is going to be the first trillionaire.  It is going to be some sweet justice when energy and oil companies lose 98% of their stock price overnight. Oh yea. If I were a doctor I'd do whatever I could to avoid a malpractice suit that could come from someone not being diagnosed right away with a very rare disease. What's best for society be damned, I still need to eat and pay off those med school debts. yes?

I don't understand what you're trying to ask me.  

One of the current hot topics in new physics is whether or not space is quantized or continuous.  There are very loose "experiments" taking place right now, but I'd say we're all in the theoretical phase of this.  If Loop Quantum Gravity is correct, then space is quantized.  I believe, but am not an expert in this field, that relativity insists that space is continuous.  But Einstein had problems when it came to quantum mechanics, namely, he didn't ~~understand or believe in it~~ like it too much.  If LQG is correct, then that would be a pretty important step towards full unification.  Most assume this to be the case.  There are physics which we don't understand at the limits, but we know that we don't know...if that makes sense.  So none of this would be news, it would just be verification.  It would open a new area of physics to explore.  Imagine the same cycle of the 20th century as we dealt with quantum mechanics.  Things get weirder and weirder as the limits expand.   You kids and your topology  It's because caffeine is a phosphodiesterase inhibitor.   What about fancy walkin'? Previous theories predicted a smooth phase change form 'normal' mode to 'super' like a pot of boiling water.  This left the matter weakly coupled after the change which is problematic for the interesting properties that 'super' state materials have.  

These researchers have found evidence of an abrupt jump into the 'super' phase like the whole pot turning to steam at once when it reached a critical point.  This is cool because this model shows the electrons being strongly coupled after the phase change.  This strong coupling makes some of the interesting super properties easier to understand and model . Yet the ACA had no tort reform. Doesn't take a brain surgeon to realize that we have high insurance costs because extra tests are run for each procedure. All costs are built into prices and because we have a sue happy society it's not going away anytime soon. i have depression and nothing makes me relax more than being on top of a mountain or riding a bike though a slightly breezy day. When I was very depressed many years ago, I discovered Conscious Walking, which was one tool I used to combat sadness.  
This is a combination of walking and meditation, where one attempts to focus on breathing, stepping, looking, swinging the arms, feeling the heels of the feet touch the ground and the balls of the feet springing you into your next step.    

One may also count their breathing (one two three four on the way in, five six seven eight out for example, whatever works for you though).   
The overall idea is to focus heavily on what your physical body is doing, and attempt to clear the mind of useless thoughts and troublesome emotions. This also helps me sleep at night when my mind runs wild (conscious breathing). 
I was never 'clinically' depressed, but this practice still provides me with a lot of benefits, and I recommend anyone suffering from depression to give it a try.  
You can even do it on your way to work or the bus stop, etc. 
 From someone who lives in NYC, walks everywhere, and never fluctuates higher than his low baseline regardless...I'm calling bull. Uh-huh. And for those so depressed that getting out of bed is not an achievable task most days? Worked for me and i'm male. To just get away from everything and leave it behind for an hour or two (less if you dont have the time) and just take a walk, listen to the sounds and relax can be very calming. http://i.imgur.com/OKLvShk.png

have fun Nothing in life is easy unfortunately, the only one who can really make a difference is yourself. Yeah I run 10-15 miles per week and at first, it did help but 8 years later, running does absolutely nothing for my depression.  Oh hey me, didn't expect to see you here. I'm male 23 and was diagnosed with Major Depressive Disorder and anxiety just yesterday by a neuropsychologist 'cos I wanted to find out why I was spacing out being unresponsive and very poor memory (ruling out a physical cause). After a lengthy discussion he decided I have been severely depressed for about 5 years, I think he came to the conclusion because I had 3/4 symptoms of psychosis.

This is all so surreal to me, it doesn't feel real at all, I have had a lot of time to think about how its affected me and have a huge list of problems stress and depression has caused me yet it feels so, I dunno "normal"? Maybe I'm just used to it or something.

In regards to walking being helpful, whenever I'm out on my own I think about terrible things happening to me or jumping in front of the traffic I see, never to kill but to be injured bad. Living in an area that's all roads means this probably wouldn't help me, if I could find a nice large park or something that might work. I sleep in my sports bra with my clothes laid out right next to me. When I get up at 4 am, the smallest thing is going to keep me from going to the gym. But in reverse, sleeping in and having to strip off my unused gym gear is sad. So I make it a point to go.

I've suffered on and off depression for many years. Over ten years of therapy, a ton of different pills. This is the best winter I've had. Have a big bad anniversary coming up on Wednesday and I'm not even worried. I feel better than I have in a long time. I give a lot of that to working out as much as I have been. I feel good. It gets me out of my comfort zone (which my anxiety hates) but I built confidence. Now I'm in a comfort zone somewhere new. And I have a lot to be proud of. Every walk, every jog, every weight and PR.  It was so hard when I started and I tried to quit many times, but I'm sick of being sick. 

It takes a lot. But it's worth it.  You have a typo in the word Wanking. I need to walk more then But what about EXTREME walking?  I have not read the report, but I imagine that it is tapping into what is called behavioral activation. It supposes that one thing that keeps individuals depressed is the lack of positive experiences. For many people, going for a walk can be a decent escape from there problems, or stressful environments, which could be very positive. These new positive emotions can help negate some of the negative ones.

However, if walking isn't a pleasant activity for someone (e.g., if walking is a big part of your job, such as being a waiter/waitress) or doesn't provide some sort of positivity, it is not going to work as a barrier to depressive feelings.

For the middle aged women in the study, perhaps many things that cause depression are social in nature and an isolated walk does cause positive emotions, or perhaps walking with a friend helps. I'm not sure. However, I would not be too quick to brush this off as "oh its just middle aged women..." when the idea has a great deal of science behind it. another reason why I wish I could walk.  In a wheelchair and stuck in the house definitely brings on the depression big time.  Way to trivialize what is a very serious problem. I myself have been the victim of medical malpractice and it has had an extremely destructive effect on my life. I still lost in court. It is difficult but that's exactly what I do - I've been dealing with depression for about 20 years now - and it works pretty well. It's all about overcoming the inertia. You can break it down into even smaller steps:

"I'll brush my teeth and then I can go back to bed if I want to."

"OK I'm up. I'll get dressed and then decide whether I want to go outside. But for now, just get dressed."

"OK, I'll go to the gym but if I just do a few minutes and then I want to go home, I can."

I almost never leave at that point, I stay and do a regular workout. It works really well as long as I don't talk myself out of the first couple of steps. Which I do sometimes but I'm meeting my goal most weeks of 3 exercise days minimum per week, between the gym and going for walks. Did four this week!

Somehow it's comforting to remind myself I can bail any time I want to, that makes it easier to keep going. I replied to the general post with something more detailed, but I'll say something here too. If you find that walking the trail does not work for you in this moment, that's ok. Behavioral activation is a studied therapeutic technique that can do a tremendous amount of good. However, it is not going to work if the activity you do does not bring you some sort of positive feeling. In this regard, it is not necessarily the walking that makes someone feel better, but that the walking gives the person some reinforcing positive emotions to help reduce the negative ones. If going on a walk only increases the negative and doesn't increase the positive, it will do no good. Generally, the activities involve some sort of social contact as well. 

Other common examples of activities include: dinner or a movie with a friend, hanging out at a friends place for an hour or two (even without much purpose), going to a concert or other performance, bike riding, swimming, other sports (recreational or otherwise).   Anecdotes are not data Yep, PEP is the best hope we have to stop the infection. The SIV research and the Mississippi baby case kinda give us little hope of actually curing the disease by hitting it hard the moment you know you get it, but we'll never know - the new "shock and kill" approach (which I'll link to the parent thread) might give us a lead on finally eradicating and curing the infection. Your submission has been removed as it does not include references to new, peer-reviewed research. Please feel free to post it in our sister subreddit /r/EverythingScience. I am not sure why you linked that article. If it was to counter my claim that science has proven the anti-vacc'ers wrong, it fails to do so.

1) he claims fraudulent use of data by omitting kids without birth certificates. The authors admit it wasn't ideal, but they had reasons to do so (more information). 

2) the original authors stand by their work.

3) it even states that upon review, the author's analysis of the data is flawed.

4) not that it removes a person's ability to do science, but having a son with autism (which you blame on vaccines) and recording a phone call with someone just screams "I have the conclusion, let's just find some data."

The fact that this article was even published goes back to what I was saying. Impartial scientists publish paper saying there is no link. That paper is reviewed and accepted by other impartial scientists. This guy who has a motive to force results publishes a paper showing a link, it is criticized by the rest of the science community, yet here they both are being held with equal weight in a public "debate." And music! I'd agree with you right up to the point that my nieces got sick because some moron felt their "mother's instinct" was more reliable than science. At that point I'd hope they lose everything. Thank you for not saying, "Regular Walking can Cure Depresssion." That shit makes me angry. And Disneyland, restaurants, parks, public transport, doctor's offices, etc.

Then I'd be satisfied. :) [Here's](http://www.spacetelescope.org/static/archives/images/original/heic1502a.psb) a direct link to start downloading the original 69,536 x 22,230 photo (.psb file), if you're interested. My bedroom theory: anything deeply conscious will feed the brain with a delicious amount of well coordinated (as if your brain could match better efferent and afferent stimuli helping processing or neuron growth, diffusing a good feeling as a reward) stimuli. Practicing music very slowly gives similar chills of deep peace with a slight touch of pleasure. I've heard climber saying the same thing. QiGong emphasis on very slow and conscious movements also triggers a nice numbing sensation overall. The opposite of reckless action described by stress. What did I say that was *wrong*?

You appear to be pretty full of yourself.
 It can make it worse. When I go for walks, all I can think about is how much better it would be if I had someone to go on that walk with. It highlights how brutally alone I am. I think narcissism is a better word. I try to keep my house in order by setting an example, getting people moving because too much laying around brings on boredom and they all get fussy princess syndrome So literally I make shit up to do just to keep them busy and it works, so I now have an unpaid job at home trying to come up with shit to do. Who said anything about shocking? Do you realize what subreddit you are on?  No wonder I am depressed.  I have been walking sideways like a crab this last year. I can attest to this personally. I had a near-breakdown induced by my depression last summer, and one of the only things that made me feel better was walking around the largely unpopulated area I live in and just experiencing everything it had to offer. It provides a feeling of actually *doing* something, not just sitting there, and getting out in the fresh air and sunlight is an unrivaled motivator. I am struggling with mild depression, and yeah, walks, rock-climbing, and lifting help *SO* much. It's unbelievable what a little bit of physical activity can do for you. &gt; Practicing music very slowly gives similar chills of deep peace with a slight touch of pleasure.  
  
This resonates very well with me :) Guitar playing has always been an intellectual and emotional therapy for me. Especially when I switch to an open tuning and play droning, improvised, repetitive stuff. It's a great way to take you out of reality for a while (or deeper into it, depending on your perspective)
 http://www.theguardian.com/commentisfree/2013/oct/24/america-litigious-society-myth Is this a wheelchair joke?! I agree, in a perfect world doctors would not have to do this but what people seem to forget is that they are humans and like it or not they do make mistakes.  When they do they get taken to court.... and thats why they do this.   My two cents: I was depressed and unemployed for several months, until recently when I *finally* decided to get a job. My car died after my second shift because I left my lights on, so I just decided to walk home. It's stupid, but it made me feel a lot better about myself, and now things are looking up. I make it a point to walk to and from work at least 3 days a week now. It's about 4 miles, so it takes right at an hour to walk each way. The inconvenience of the commute time is very much worth the renewed faith I have in myself. [walking can also help ease oppression](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Million_Man_March) Yeah excersize is an amazing mood booster I'm in college studying physics and I'm on the cusp of graduating. /u/Brian_Nord is doling out some solid advice for anyone looking to learn more about physics.

I would like to add something. I'd challenge you to try and learn physics qualitatively, rather that quantitatively. First, observe physics phenomena, *then* bring out any mathematical tools you might need. Many people who have learned physics have learned it backwards, that is, equations and calculations to explain physics, instead of learning why the phenomena that do occur actually happen. Having an equations and calculations based foundation for physics can lead to many misconceptions on the topic (although not guaranteed!)

Being able to "math" is super important, however. I'm just saying it comes second to physics. Physics is not math. To be able to really appreciate the coolest things in physics like time dilation and other modern physics ideas, a good working knowledge of calculus will allow you to really step back and revel in the awe that is physics. To me it has to do with the exponential sensitivity of instruments. It requires your brain to control very fine and dynamics motion patterns. The only way to maintain these complex movements require an abstract notion of inertia (reusing motion from your wrist and give it a little push with your fingers) to conserve as much energy as possible. I believe the brain is an economic computer and thus this a way to tickle your brain to its most fundamental nature. That actually makes a lot of sense, thanks. I'd been experiencing virtually the same situation as you, but I attributed it to backsliding somehow into depression. After reading your description though, I'm realizing it was exactly what you are describing.  Here's a torrent:

    magnet:?xt=urn:btih:5BE3C93B5C5D9150AB819B14B90360182BD3E26C&amp;tr=udp://tracker.publicbt.com:80&amp;tr=udp://tracker.openbittorrent.com:80&amp;tr=udp://tracker.istole.it:80&amp;tr=http://denis.stalker.h3q.com:6969/announce&amp;tr=udp://tracker.ccc.de:80

[Source](https://www.reddit.com/r/science/comments/2rgj3a/hubble_takes_the_biggest_image_ever_of_andromeda/cnfxs72) Hmm, there doesn't seem to be help for me. D:

Thank you though!  &gt; It's like taking an exposed nerve and stimulating it in every single way possible all at once.

That kind of made me sexually aroused. I like your writing style.

I guess I can see what you mean. That could be intense for some people! Please do not submit Wikipedia pages.

*[I am a bot](/r/AutoModerator/comments/q11pu/what_is_automoderator/), and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2Fscience) if you have any questions or concerns.* Walking is my thing. Even if it's a good day, I go out and walk. I'm not depressed, but it really helps after a particularly stressful day.

City walking is good and all. I like to take new routes and see new places that I normally just drive by without noticing. It's kind of nice.

At the same time, I miss what I had back home. I lived in a rural area. I'd head up into the hills behind my house and before I knew it, the road, cars...civilization in general was just gone! All I heard was animals rustling the leaves and the occasional chirping bird. It was really nice. Defensive medicine (ordering tests/scripts beyond what is empirically indicated) and double checking are two completely different things.  Then make everything a-la-carte and raise rates. People will complain, but without $, shortages will persist. It comes down to what people really want. For me, quality of life- by having a functional spine- is pretty high on my list. But other people don't have to share my opinion. By definition, they're talking about tests the doctors know aren't needed.  It's resources that could be better used elsewhere, but it provides protection from legal problems. Yup. That's what the researchers originally hypothesized, at least. Whilst many of the comments point out how obvious this is, what is being forgotten is that those that can use it the most probably have the hardest time just "getting out the door",so to speak, due to their ailment. I think this is just one case of where an ounce of prevention is worth a pound of cure, I.e. Get out there walking before depression gets a hold of you.  whether it's a waste is really up to the patient to decide. But I do think doctors need to start having better conversations about the cost factor, so patients can decide how to spend their money and how much they value peace of mind. Get a really fancy cane. As a person who has suffered depression, knowing a regular walk can help is great. Too bad I didn't have the motivation to get out of bed, get dressed and leave the house to go for a walk.  The real question is: How can Pfizer and AstraZeneca make a profit from this? Anecdotally, as a lab manager in Canada, I hated it when US trained MDs would work in my hosp. They would easily order 1.5x to 2x of lab procedures as compared to their non-US-trained peers with no difference in pt outcomes. I used to pull monthly utilization reports by MD name and this difference was very striking. Isn't this the advice that Adam Carolla always gives?
 Patients don't generally think about it as their money. It's just "insurance", and that's already a sunk cost. Sidewalk's for regular walkin, not fancy walkin. I think what you're specifying though is your mindset, I have that when I meditate, but the mindset =/= walking and/or isn't dependent on the walking. The walking is perhaps just a precursor for the mindset for you. What about regular house cleaning?  Too bad I'm too depressed to walk... I have depression and my psychiatrist prescribed me both vitamin D and getting outside more. Since I've been doing those two things my mood has greatly improved.  I keep having to remind myself it's because I'm now actually trying to deal with stuff, and my doctor reminds me that too. She's got me in weekly until my actual counselling kicks in, and she's been great. It's been a little bit of she's trusting/good at her job, and I'm finally ready to start climbing out of this shit hole I've been stuck in for years.

I kind of, the other night imagined it as though. I'm chained into this pit. And I found some wood lying around, and I built a bit of a platform so I wasn't so low down, and I could breathe some slightly fresher air. But I'm still chained. If I actually want to escape? I've got to go back down there. And it's going to be absolutely shit. But I won't ever get out if I don't. It's terrifying though. and on the flip side, there is nothing wrong with preventative medicine.    What do you mean by that? Thank you! I walked regularly until a depressive episode hit. Then when I tried to continue the routine to ward off the depression I couldn't even make it halfway down the street without wanting to collapse in the middle of the sidewalk. I get so tired of hearing people say that depression can be handled with vitamins and exercise.  My overall depression level would have to be a lot lower for me to do anything regularly... Ruminating is incredibly powerful when you can train yourself to focus it.  There is a theory that rumination caused by depression is what caused some of the greatest advances in mathematical and physical theory. Why'd the comment get deleted? D: I go for a short 15-minute walk after school every day, and it usually makes my mood and general depression/anxiety a tad bit better. Sooo you've given up? If you're okay with that then do your thing but my advice was directed at people who haven't abandoned all hope of feeling pleasure again.  Even though (from my skim of the article) it's only 1 study, I'm gonna give this a shot. For me, the worst likely scenario is that it does nothing get me some exercise. Citation needed Or even silly walking? I want to say that if you're saying this works for you then you don't know what depression feels like. But please don't take that as an attack - I'm not going to try to minimize what you experience, I promise. 

It's just that it's hard not to laugh (dryly) at what you're describing. Put my clothes out the night before? Put running shoes on? Are you joking? In the middle of a depressive episode just contemplating doing those things would be devastatingly difficult to impossible, and trying to accomplish them would probably bring me to tears in the space of a minute. And yes, I'm aware at how ridiculous it sounds that someone would be sobbing while trying to put shoes on, but that's how it is.

I get what you're saying in the whole 'fake it 'till you make it' thinking, but honestly, there's no energy or even coherence or rationality to actually make it happen.  Very (and unfortunately) true. But its time to change that. I am not really in favor of medical tort reform, per se, because the medical establishment has a very poor record of self accountability, albeit an excellent record of abusing the public trust. What I would like to see though, is ala carte testing with some kind of statutory protection if the patient declines a procedure. This would likely require more face time for doctors to explain things, but that should happen anyway. Walking is so good for your mind.  It clears your head and frees you up.  I come up with ideas for a living and walking is like a magic drug for that.  don't tell anybody though!   It's also only 1 study. I'm sure the same potential benefits exist for all groups though. For the people who are able to get themselves to try walking, I think it's most likely worth the try. The exercise itself will likely have some physical benefits at the worst. I don't know I walk everyday but I still end up feeling like a piece of shit at the end of the day, walking takes my mind off of it for a little bit but it doesn't fix my problems. :/ I don't think I've had exactly that problem, but I've found bicycling to be a very mood elevating exercise for a related reason, it just creates a feeling of there being nothing else in the world other than where I am at right then.  It can feel very primitive, almost like I'm tapping into some part of me that was developed way before we were human. I read this as regular wanking can help ease erection Doctors cant lose their license in a medical malpractice lawauit. Licensing is separated from determinations of negligence. *raises hand* Is regular walking helping with depression, or are non-depressed people just more likely to walk regularly?  Unfortunately this is the kind of routine shoddy statistics we get from psychology that just grabs a correlation and runs with it. The problem with that is the patient will never decline the procedure if they are unlikely to be held financially responsible.  "Better to be safe than sorry." what about silly walks I live next to the gulf coast. Honestly never even saw oil on the beaches themselves. So, don't worry man, things are fine, life moves on. Frivilous lawsuits are not rampant. In Ohio, a patient cant file a lawsuit without the case first being reviewed by a medical doctor and an affidavit signed by the doctor stating there is merit to the patients claim.   Ugh, that's the worst. People think they have some insider knowledge and take their anti-vaxx nonsense seriously. No, you should be the one to go back and read it.  The context here is these dragons are long.  Start from the top of the thread.
 Is this really new? I thought exercise had been linked to improving mood and depression for a very long time.

 Also, when you google statistics on the number of lawsuits, keep in mind the majority of those civil lawsuits are credit card collection actions and home foreclosures.  The number of medical malpractice cases has declined significantly since the 1990s even though the number of deaths caused by medical negligence has risen above 400,000 annually.  A weak legal oversight system creates an environment where failure is acceptable.  reading all these comments actually is making me feel sad, i dont even have depression either. No, whether it's a waste or not is dictated by whether the results of the test would change the physicians management of the problem.  

Aka, it doesn't matter if you have a urinalysis if the doctor is going to treat you for a urinary tract infection regardless.

But patients still ask for those things anyway, and the federal government has decided patient satisfaction plays a role in reimbursement determination, so now physicians bend to the patients desires so that they don't have to take an unfair pay cut. That's awful :( So I get that, but not trying anything to help the depression does nothing as well. And seeing as this is a whole thread about things that might help, it's not unreasonable for people to be suggesting things. And nobody here I believe is saying it's easy.

It's breaking things down. I know I get overwhelmed, and when I told my doctor this, because I'm not in my official therapy yet, what we did was she set me up with the social nurse at my doctors office (I am really goddamn lucky and I know it). But what we do is phoned call ins and we discuss what I need to do over the next week, and we break it down, and I do it piece by piece and I am "not allowed" to think about the next step until I do the first step.

This is the same thing. Don't think about getting ready, just think about getting out of bed, once that's done, don't thinking about going outside, just think about getting ready. It's breaking it down so your brain, which is sick, can handle it, and put it into more manageable portions so you don't get too overwhelmed.

It's a technique, and no, it might not work for everybody, but it's been proven to work for some people, so why not give it a go? Being depressed sucks.  Wow, those fish are super dead. I still like you though. &lt;3 Yea me too. I love hiking and camping but I'm terrified to go to new places alone. I went on a backpacking trip with a friend over the summer and since we work far from each other we decided to meet at a designated part of a trail. She got stuck in traffic so I set up tent and waited. It got dark. I have never been more terrified. It was an awesome trip but at the same time I'm very disappointed with myself with how paranoid I was when I was by myself. I thought I was over the anxiety and paranoia but apparently not The number of times I have heard patients/family say "oh it's okay if we get admitted and stay in the hospital, we just got good insurance."

Like your insured status is going to suddenly make us say "oh well come on in, welcome to Chez Hospital."

Infuriating.  I know shit tons of people for whom the only barrier to constantly using medical services for every little thing is the fact that it costs money to go to. I had TB as a child and it's still in my system (as occult TB). As a result, I get pneumonia and pleurisy on a regular basis. I actually tore a ligament in my back from coughing really hard one year. 

Welcome to my life ;) If an introvert wants to get rid of an extravert on a team, look out....  you might not see it coming.  Introverts are less likely to tell a bunch of people what they are thinking and planning than extraverts would. Introverts don't feel as compelled to blab stuff just to be social.



 Why would anyone agree to forgo the right to sue if they agree less testing and less confidence in a successful procedure? Risk their health, even if the extra risk is minimal, and also waive the right to collect on malpractice insurance seems like a bad deal for the patient.  Actually, the number of medical malpractice claims paid is decreasing significantly:http://healthblog.ncpa.org/is-the-medical-malpractice-crisis-being-solved/ Curing? I think you mean treating. It's not curable at the moment.  I think it helps a lot just do know what rumination is and be able to identify and label the behavior.  Also not true. The majority of medical negligence claims go unfiled. I absolutely agree! There are plenty of audiobooks available at librivox. I believe it was a reference to this blog post: http://hyperboleandahalf.blogspot.com/2013/05/depression-part-two.html There's a joke out there about walking in the same area each day and making a depression-but I'm not going to make it. There's something to be said for making a depression when walking in the same place, but I won't comment about that here. Good thinking.

I'm old enough to remember "chicken pic parties." When a kid in our class (I'm a twin) came down with them my mom took us over to play with him so we could catch it and develop immunity. 

Ugh :( Relieves anxiety too  My brain will torture me with everything in my life I've ever done wrong, every embarrassment, every mistake. This will be all it wants to do. It is not a helpful behavior.  Also:  http://healthblog.ncpa.org/is-the-medical-malpractice-crisis-being-solved/ is the Universe expanding in 360 degrees around or just in one direction? If just one direction towards where? In every other Western country defensive medicine isn't performed because our tort laws aren't ridiculous. Do you have any suggestions for getting to the "actually do it" part? I'm very depressed, but rational, so I know if I go for a walk, it will help, but can't convince myself to do it because in my brain, "it doesn't matter and wouldn't death be nicer?"" I know! Believe me I know! But the damn oil always shows up in my mind, sigh....... Try audiobooks while you walk? it helps me a little. I'm pretty sure sleep counts as the rest part of Rest  &amp; Relaxation. What 'ya got yourself there is a few Great Old One's and a Gloon.  And a hubcap.

Sleep with your shotgun loaded tonight. I don't think patients, especially neurosurgery patients, are sitting there praying something goes wrong. The right to sue is important. The alternative to the current model would be that many doctors still practice carefully, but a few would practice recklessly. It's these few reckless doctors that fuck it up for everyone.

Are there frivolous lawsuits? Sure. But there are many many meritorious lawsuits as well. That's why defendants have an opportunity to defend themselves, and why lawsuits are decided by twelve people from the community with no direct stake in the matter. This is a large part of the reason why why healthcare costs in the US are high. We don't pay doctors too much. They don't prescribe medications for personal gain. Nobody does that. Defensive medicine is what they do. Everyone else see all the deletes or am I just crazy 0.o
 &gt; I have to walk past jewelry that costs more than my annual income on my way to a job. 

Grab it and run! Why shouldn't patient satisfaction play a role? Medicine is a service industry. Doctors are not mechanics, who just have to make a thing work. Talk to doctors, 30% of their income goes to medical insurance. If you put more costs in one system than another the one system will have to be more expensive than the other.
If it's slowly being reduced, fantastic, but the problem still persists. An increase in energy sounds in line with adding a stimulant to your medication. Adderall isn't at all indicated for treating depression, but I wonder if it shouldn't be. Giving people the means to get their shit done might have effects on depression that are completely non-physiological. Not at all. I've simply freed myself from further damage by way of sadness, frustration and anger from accepting what and where I am, and that includes the limits of what I can and can't do.

It isn't a matter of wanting it hard enough, or not having the will to see it through. The body is a machine, and a mind is an expression of our brains as well as the rest of our bodies. However complex and wonderful we are, we are still ruled by the laws nature. Our brains work by the blood in our veins, the impulses in our nerves, and the chemicals that fuel reaction and change.

Somewhere, the system has broken down and certain mechanisms are starving for fuel. But we don't know which have broken, how they are damaged, or how to fix them. Bluster will not fix it. Certain words may fix it, sure. But not bluster and faith. Knowledge, real knowledge about the scientific ins and the outs of our physical condition is what we need.

Your belief that it's about pleasure tells me that you don't understand the illness. It isn't about a lack of pleasure, or sadness. Those things may worsen the condition but it isn't about that. On a daily basis I may even experience more joy, happiness and pleasure than many who aren't so far gone as much as me. I live simply and take great pleasure in many simple things. I dream of spending my days just reading, learning, writing, and figuring things out with naught but access to some quality science literature, a pen and some paper. It isn't even about hope. I've abandoned blind faith, and that is what hope is. Without hope, I've freed myself from despair. I am alive, and for as long as I can maintain I will always have a chance to recover. But how often does an "unnecessary" test lead to discovering another condition? Even if it's 1 in 500, it might be worth doing. Yes, that type of meditation is what #3 is supposed to be.  ;)  The first one is like an adaptation of the idea that I usually use when my mind is racing a bit too much for breath meditation.  The great thing about racing thoughts is that they are extremely easy to re-direct.  My favorite tactics are usually either pretending someone has asked me to explain some academic topic to them/I'm writing a blog post about that topic; or picking some insanely complex problem like "global warming" or "violent crime" and asking "if I had a huge amount of resources how would I fix this".  Both are so open-ended I usually haven't even scratched the surface of the topic by the time I finish my walk! I'm riding that worm at the bottom of my Tequila! Ugh. Everybody likes to bitch about health care costs and expensive malpractice insurance and tort reform, but nobody wants to be the spouse and kids of the guy who had a great life until the surgeon negligently killed him. Then we are all on the jury crying and awarding enough money to pay for the house and cars and college and therapy and vacations, and the pain of losing dear old dad in his prime. Then malpractice rates rise and we bitch. Still doesn't help me out enough. I still find it hard to go and do anything everyday.  Frivolous lawsuits are not rampant. It's hard enough to win a meritorious lawsuit. Most lawyers know that it isn't worth it to file a frivolous medical malpractice claim. They're too expensive to try. I find that my eyes are in a fixed, predictable position in their orbits when I'm ruminating. Keeping this in mind and disrupting it when I'm able improves my mood. I wonder if I'm unique in that. Ya, we bad! Naw I grew up in a rural area (NH) and now live near Seattle. I prefer walking through the city because it's more stimulating. I'm a meditative/calm person either way so maybe it's just that I don't need the quiet to 'center myself' or I thrive on new experiences. lose* Your treating the model like a best fit line through a set of training data is fatally oversimplified.  That's not how these kinds of models work.  
  
You appear to be pretty full of yourself, believing an elementary concept you manage to grasp has been lost on the entire scientific community. what about *irregular* walking? http://youtu.be/iV2ViNJFZC8 It's not walking, it's exercise in general. I'm male and I've dealt with suicidal depression. Exercise (in my case it's been lifting weights) has a had a huge impact on my mood and general sense of self worth. How would I find a good psychologist? Google ones in my area?

I'm just too embarrassed to talk to anyone I know about it... I walk about 3 miles a day, which is good for my mental health. Unfortunately it is to and from work, which is the biggest threat to my mental health. Your theory makes sense most of the time to me, but not all of the time.  On Friday, for instance, I had a great day.  We got an extended lunch hour at work, had a Superbwl potluck (I've noticed not eating enough will significantly decrease my ability to handle things), I found out my production is twice that of others in the department, traffic wasn't too bad, I went out with a friend for dinner, walked on the beach for an hour or so...and then I came home and the guy I'm with slept on the couch and wouldn't tell me why.  I completely broke down.  It was such a tiny thing but it set me off in to that spiral of deep, chaotic depression.  Normally eating on time, sleeping enough, getting interaction, exercising, etc. will keep something small from pushing me in to an unstable mess...but not always.  

What's crazy is that earlier in the car I had listened to a review on NPR of "Every Brilliant Thing" and thought to myself "How can I possibly become that person?  I'm so happy and love being alive."  I've managed it okay so far, but one day I worry my thoughts will be so dark that no sane ones can get through.  It happens so fast and it's basically like being affected by drugs.  After the fact you can think about how stupid it all was, but when you're there you're just overcome and hoping you can ride it out.   This will probably stay buried. Walking does help me but not because of the exercise aspect.

I drive to work and I have two possible routes. Both of the routes variation is in my immediate neighborhood then they join together. I've seen both thousands of times. There is something very soothing about walking these specific routes versus any other walking path. I see things that I have never noticed. All the details that I don't perceive going just 25 miles per hour. It's like it's a reminder that there are really good things all around me but I don't slow down and take the time to see them.

It takes a miracle to get out and do it, but I've never come back thinking that it was a waste of time.
 Am so late to this,  but doing this is what finally got me on my treadmill,  instead of just looking at it guiltily.  3 weeks in, I am much better at just going forward with it,  and now am trying the c25k program.    As a person who battles depression (on and off), I can confirm that this is true. But the problem is that the act of getting up to go take a walk is extraordinarily harder than actually taking a walk. To a person with depression, convincing oneself that doing something is worth it in the end is the main challenge. Maybe the problem is that severe cases of depression are very individual and differ from person to person which makes it hard to do studies on this topic...
But I can easily be wrong about that. If we're talking about imaging procedures, is it really such a bad idea to gather more data? It's about the most efficient use of resources.  With defensive medicine doctors go against their best judgement, so instead of 500 tests catching 15 conditions they only catch 1.  Healthcare costs for everyone are driven up too, forcing insurers or the government to cut corners in treatments that would be more helpful.  If resources were unlimited there would't be a problem. It doesn't cost money in England, and they seem to be dealing with the hypochondriacs just fine. Except that the article is wrong about the Amish. The Amish do not have a religious objection to vaccines. While low vaccination rates exist in some Amish communities, the rates can be attributed to other factors and are not related to a formal religious objection. The position of the Amish on vaccines is outlined in John Grabenstein's systemic review, What the world's religions teach, applied to vaccines and immune globulins, published in the peer-reviewed journal Vaccine, April 2014. 

&gt;  3.1.5.2.  
&gt; Amish and related communities. The Amish, sometimes called old-order Amish or Amish Mennonites, are a group of Christian 
&gt; fellowships among Mennonite churches. Amish fellowships began with a schism within a group of Anabaptists in Switzerland in  
 &gt; 1693 CE. Related groups in Canada and the northern US are known as Hutterites. Immunization is not
&gt; prohibited by Amish or Hutterite religious doctrine, but vaccine acceptance varies from district to district. Districts that typically decline immunization reflect a social tradition within these religious communities, related to modernity, more than a theological objection. Low immunization rates in Amish communities have been attributed variously to limited access to care, limited disease understanding, higher priority to other activities, and concerns about vaccine safety, with
&gt;     variability among various communities [18,120123].
&gt; 
&gt; They tend to define illness in terms of failure to function in a work role, more than in terms of symptoms [19]. Within Amish and   related communities, multiple Haemophilus influenzae type b, measles, pertussis, poliomyelitis, rubella, and tetanus cases and outbreaks have been reported [11,18,19,26,50,51,5658,64,67,7080,83]. District leaders have been more accepting of immunization at times of local outbreaks.


Full text available at the link: http://childrenshealthcare.org/wp-content/uploads/2012/01/Vaccine-Grabenstein-article.pdf

Edit: Formatting Tort reform requires its own bill.  It would deceptively complex because you don't want to take away rights from citizens to sue in legitimate cases, yet still eliminate the obvious cash grabs.  I only thought fancy walking would do the trick....

No but really...why is this a surprise? Exercise has been proven to ease depression and walking falls under that category. Clearly you are not interested in a factual discussion with what I actually said.

Troll, troll, troll your boat elsewhere. Clearly you are not interested in a factual discussion with what I actually said.

Troll, troll, troll your boat elsewhere. Something humans have done for thousands of years, out of both necessity and for pleasure, now has to be re-introduced and somehow re-legitimzed by science? really?
 This paper about semen was published in the journal "P-nas" . Coincidence?  I think not. I can completely relate to this analogy. The thing I hate about the laziness aspect of depression is that my loved ones (through no fault of their own) are not able to differentiate between depression and actual laziness. I often find myself sleeping in on the weekends only to awake to feelings of uneasiness in those around me, wanting to know if I'm "okay". Don't get me wrong, I greatly appreciate that they are looking out for me but it hurts to know that my depression is causing them worry even when it isn't causing me any trouble. Oh come on.  The ACA was 2500 pages long, and is now like 20,000 in pages now that the regs have been written by HHS.  The whole ACA was deceptively complex, which is why it is bad legislation. It's a problem of aggregate demand and scarce resources though. For example if every time a kid came in with flu-like symptoms, the doctor ordered a half dozen  medical tests, probably 1 in 500 cases would be something else. The problem is, a lot of doctors demanding all these tests would create a huge backlog in the medical labs, delaying everyone's results, including those for patients that really need them. This huge, unnecessary cost would also add to the price tag for everyone's insurance, pricing more people out of good healthcare.  Preventive is very different from defensive. This is very true, walk at night, with an audio-book on - something you like, and walk wherever you want to go. No pressure, no expectations, it helps.

I don't think this only helps depression. Sometimes it can be. There is always the increased cancer risk associated with any procedure involving radiation. You can also end up finding "incidentalomas"; random abnormalities that were not causing the patient any symptoms, but must be addressed now that they are known. Not to mention, even if it is "just the insurance agency", someone has to pay for that imaging procedure to be performed.  the fact that doctors are humans creates an environment where failure is inevitable.  Yeah, even if they want to walk. Because good patient care is not always what pleases the customer.  They want antibiotics for their cold.  They want a CT or MRI for everything.  They want narcotic pain meds.  

I'm not saying we should not care about patient satisfaction, not at all.  But what I am saying is this has created leverage to make doctors bend to the will of their patients and is the wrong way of going about it.  And someone who had a bad experience is much more likely to fill out that survey. I feel like auto-correct changed it from wanking. science= proving factually what has always been known in folk wisdom  I'm a little confused by the title

Does't ultra hydrophobic metal already allow water dropetes to bounce off it? So, what you are saying is that more should have been added to it? My experience isn't invalid because it's different than yours and it's pretty rude to suggest otherwise.  No, I'm saying that what you're saying about it being deceptive to add tort reform to the ACA at passage is irrelevant because the ACA is already deceptive and complex. Maybe mine is mild, I have a very difficult time getting out of bed, and I don't have bad enough symptoms to be unable to get dressed in the morning. I put out my clothes because it takes thirty seconds and I feel like I'm doing something positive (being able to cook my own food and that kind of thing was a quick thing that I forced myself to do because I needed to that helped too in the long run), I have this mindset that I'm getting ready to better myself. Once I get out of bed, having one single thing to make myself feel like I did something that day, that was awesome for me. Yes, I was tired, and fuck no I did not want to leave my bed. But it was a simple rule I made for myself to start myself on the path to being better for myself. No it wasnt easy, yes there are people that arent ready for that right now. But I'm trying to help and inform people like myself, that probably fall somewhere around the middle of the spectrum. I put two rules in place. Taking clothes out of the drawer, and putting them on in the morning. That helped *me*. And dont get me started on "episodes", those take a lot of time and a dedicated medical professional. It may not apply to you, but getting dressed and putting shoes on in the morning was a great impetus for me to at least feel like I could challenge the things that (nonsensically) intimidated me. It's not some thing that will solve all problems, but it helped me. This isn't a "who is more depressed" pissing contest, I'm just trying to offer my experience and something that was really helpful to me, and may be helpful to others. If it doesn't work for you, keep at it. But it was effective for what I was experiencing.
 One of the issues at the time was that tort reform was considered "pushing your luck"--just getting the basic ACA framework through and into law was a monumental effort, and it was decided that lack of tort reform was an acceptable sacrifice in order to at least get the ACA through, rather than mired in negotiations forever. In '360 degrees', ie all directions, by assumption. Cosmology assumes that the Universe is homogenous. So far, evidence seems to support the assumption. Source: Leonhard Susskind's Lectures on Cosmology at Stanford University, available for free on youtube.
 Similarly, no doctor wants to be the one who spent 30 years of his life working toward becoming a physician only to have a freak 0.5% chance condition kill his patient and subsequently his career, simply because he wanted to avoid an extra checkbox on the Orders form for labs and save his patient some money. I still have no idea where the spoons come into play. Should go buy some? Neurosurgery is one of those particularly tough specialties for these issues because bad outcomes are relatively common due to the high-stakes nature of the job, and it can be very difficult for a patient or a jury to tell if a bad outcome occurred because of negligence or if it was simply an unavoidable risk.  A friend of mine was sued by a patient he performed a decompression on for cauda equina syndrome.  The patient had a bad outcome (unfortunately common in cauda equina syndrome) and stated it was because the surgeon did not operate quickly enough. Actual studies on the time to decompression are very conflicting; while some sources say these surgeries must be done emergently, other studies indicate that outcomes are no different if the surgery is delayed.  There is no clear consensus among neurosurgeons, yet a jury of 12 people who knew nothing about neurosurgery had to make a multi-million dollar decision.  Not a good situation for anyone involved. The article is actually wrong about the Amish. The Amish do not have a religious objection to vaccines. While low vaccination rates exist in some Amish communities, the rates can be attributed to other factors and are not related to a formal religious objection. Over the years there have been a number of outbreaks in Amish communities where there are low vaccination rates, and the usual response is a sharp increase in vaccine compliance. 

The position of the Amish on vaccines is outlined in John Grabenstein's systemic review, What the world's religions teach, applied to vaccines and immune globulins, published in the peer-reviewed journal Vaccine, April 2014. 

&gt;  3.1.5.2.  
&gt; Amish and related communities. The Amish, sometimes called old-order Amish or Amish Mennonites, are a group of Christian 
&gt; fellowships among Mennonite churches. Amish fellowships began with a schism within a group of Anabaptists in Switzerland in  
 &gt; 1693 CE. Related groups in Canada and the northern US are known as Hutterites. Immunization is not
&gt; prohibited by Amish or Hutterite religious doctrine, but vaccine acceptance varies from district to district. Districts that typically decline immunization reflect a social tradition within these religious communities, related to modernity, more than a theological objection. Low immunization rates in Amish communities have been attributed variously to limited access to care, limited disease understanding, higher priority to other activities, and concerns about vaccine safety, with
&gt;     variability among various communities [18,120123].
&gt; 
&gt; They tend to define illness in terms of failure to function in a work role, more than in terms of symptoms [19]. Within Amish and   related communities, multiple Haemophilus influenzae type b, measles, pertussis, poliomyelitis, rubella, and tetanus cases and outbreaks have been reported [11,18,19,26,50,51,5658,64,67,7080,83]. District leaders have been more accepting of immunization at times of local outbreaks.


Full text available at the link: http://childrenshealthcare.org/wp-content/uploads/2012/01/Vaccine-Grabenstein-article.pdf
 Look, as someone actually in medicine I would **love** for what you say to be reality. That would make everyone's lives so much easier--patients, doctors, nurses, everyone.

But this is not the case. Even a condition with a 1 in a million likelihood is a significant concern if there are 15 million potentials every year. Statistics mean nothing to an individual that it affects. No doctor is truly screening their every one of their patients for 1 in 1 million conditions, but they'll certainly test anyone who has any reasonable suspicion of it. 

Rhetoric is one thing but imagining doctors just checking every test on the chart for their routine patients is just false. A better example would be a patient coming in with chest pain, and the doctor ordering an EKG, blood cultures, hemostat/troponin, and a variety of other tests simply to rule out heart attack even if the patient has no other symptoms--because one missed heart attack is a ruinous lawsuit on your hands. Symptoms are **never ever** 100% clear-cut in a patient, there are always major confounds, deceptive vitals, etc.

Neurosurgeons deal with an unimaginably delicate and fragile organ, and the way I see it they're well within their right to be defensive in their practice. There is *so much* that can go wrong with neurosurgery, more so than many other practices, and they can be held liable for things that were even outside their control. That's what I have been doing !! I live in Boston and on nice Sunday's I try to walk most of the length of mass ave or roughly a 10mile walk, and it is so relaxing. If I don't have a podcast getting lost in a good audio book is great too  I've found it helpful to play the addictive phone app games while also listening to music through headphones while on the elliptical at the gym. It distracts my mind from the tediousness and rumination and by the time I'm up to 20 minutes some happy chemicals have kicked in and it's no problem from there. (I don't allow myself to play the app games at any other time). I don't do this when I mow the lawn and it feels awful, the repetitve thoughts. 

Just in case that helps at all.  I walk my dog every night and the effect it has on me is huge. I feel like I have space in my head to work things through. Sometimes when everything is really getting to me I will just let myself cry. It is very nice to be able to let your emotions out when you are alone and no one is going to bother you.  Haha, thanks for that, I actually do write a bit so that means a lot to me. I'm proud of you, I know it feels awful sometimes. But it sounds like you're killin it right now and I'm so excited for you, even if it's just a little bit better every day! I've done the pill thing, seven I think, but I found that even a decent amount of exercise has the same, if not better, effects. Keep it up! And just something I used; work on cooking. For me, I knew I had to eat healthier as well (cheesy ramen and beer on the couch at 2 A.M. is apparently not so healthy, who woulda thunk?) and learning how to cook healthy is actually pretty fun, and you learn a lot as well. 

But I'm not just gonna comment. I'm gonna stay on you. Tomorrow, before the Super bowl, I want proof of 3 miles. Walk, jog, crawl, even doing housework can rack up the steps pretty quick. No excuses. I have a ton of stuff to do too so I'm not takin excuses... Let's see it! PM Thanks!  Good luck with your interesting courses.  I hope you hit the jackpot too.  -GWeiss For the record, radiation imaging is not always the best or even the correct answer. MRI is perfectly safe and better in many cases. 

I'm not trying to discount your point, just saying that this is not always the case.  &gt; in my late 20's

whoa, you're not middle aged yet young miss! Hah!  Of course.  Thanks.   Flabulous? I'm weird in that my reaction to depression is to walk and think, rather than lay in bed all day. Queue walking 20 miles per day indoors for about a month straight. Didn't ease anything, and forced me to eat 6-7 meals per day to keep up with my energy use, which I barely was able to do because I was too depressed to actually cook.

I suppose I'm a rare case though. What? That seems reasonable (to a point) to me. If the doctor says you need more testing and you say "no, just do it," it kinda seems like it should be on your own head... I see many layman anecdotes going on in the comment section, and I want to clear something up--defensive medicine is almost **never** something like "well we brought in Ms. Smith for removal of a brain tumor but let's give her a CT scan and an MRI just to make sure she doesn't have any broken bones or something."

It's a lot more like "Ms. Smith is showing a somewhat elevated blood pressure after her procedure, there could be a million different reasons for this but let's run some screening tests to at least rule out anything serious." 

The reason behind this is that medical symptoms are not **nearly** as clear cut as many people believe. The layperson idea of heart attack symptoms would be pain radiating from the left arm, chest pain, shortness of breath, etc. But there are actually a not-insignificant number of heart attack patients who don't experience enough of these symptoms to make it even close to clear-cut. Some people who just come in saying their chest feels heavy end up having a huge heart attack detected later through blood tests. This is why, for instance, almost every single person who comes into an emergency department with chest pain will get blood tests for troponin and other biomarkers.

You might think "well that 30 year old is very unlikely to have a heart attack, running that test is wasteful and frivolous", but what if he is the handful of young people who **every year** are diagnosed with heart attacks? It's not just about preserving your career, doctors don't want to see their patients die. When you're a doctor you cannot think "it won't happen to me", you have to think "what if it happens to me". That sounds to me like it could be another type of thinking style, called "racing thoughts".  It can co-occur with rumination, but they are distinct.  Racing thoughts are characterized by a complete and total inability to stop them.  At best, you can re-direct the flow to a different topic.  I've discovered from talking with other people who have them that we all have developed strategies for overriding them at bed time because they can interfere immensely with sleep.  Your method is one of the two popular ones, the other being my method- telling a story as though I'm writing a book, which eventually just melds into my first dream of the night.  Interestingly, people mostly reported developing their strategy around puberty, after having suffered insomnia on and off for their entire childhood.  If any of that sounds like you, you may want to look into the term a little bit! I have great health insurance. It won't cost me much extra. It sound like these guys are giving me excellent care by being sure they know exactly what the problem is and preparing for any problems that might come up. I would be happy to have any of these doctors.

Chances are this article was written by an insurance company, to convince people they are fine with a lesser level of care. I think part of this is also getting supporting evidence that the procedures they do are necessary incase the companies deny claims. It would suck for it to be denied and then go to the patient and be like,"well your insurance company denied it so you owe us 20,000$" I was diagnosed with plantar fasciitis (very painful inflammation) in both feet so unfortunately going for walks again like I used to is out of the question for hopefully only a temporary time. I miss them. The pain is excruciating and downright depressing. For the love of god, TAKE CARE OF YOUR HEALTH because this is a nightmare that has driven me to feel more suicidal than ever before. If anybody has any advice/suggestions that will most assuredly help in healing my foot issue as best and quickly as possible, please let me know. I would be forever grateful. Heheh.  Sounds like an interesting idea.  They're not in an audio format.  Someone much more skilled myself will need to transpose the current as a function of time data into sound files. Zot! Zot! Zot!!  Thanks for your nice note. This is an excellent question, I wish more exercise research would address this basic causality vs correlation issue.  And with a bike See, proof that one time I left my house in the midst of winter and followed train tracks for 6 to 7 hours was healthy!  Take that family/therapist XD 

But seriously it did help a little.  It was better than sitting at home alone surrounded by medication and alchohol and sharp things.   Not all doctors order extra tests just to protect themselves from law suits. Extra tests are often ordered simply because they want to know what the heck is going on in the patient's body, and they can order that damn test is they want to.

Yes, I find it ridiculous some of the extreme tests that are ordered for insanely specific diseases that are almost always negative; but that's science. If the patient is presenting with symptoms that can be a plethora of diseases, you have to send the labs for every single one of them at some point if they all keep coming back negative.
 Good lord people, this is a terrible title and a misleading article to the point of being downright irresponsible.

Correlation does not show causation! They found that people who walked more over time became less depressed over time. But there's nothing to say they weren't walking more *because* they were less depressed or whether walking really had a beneficial effect.

I'm all for being active but as a scientist* you can't just make claims like "we found X helps with Y" just because X and Y move together.

(edit) [Here is the actual study](http://www.ajpmonline.org/article/S0749-3797\(14\)00567-4/abstract). I can't see the full article but the abstract is pretty clear:

&gt; Physical activity (PA) has a positive association with health-related quality of life (HRQL) in the general population.

Am I wrong in expecting better from Scientific American?

\* the author, Janice Neumann, isn't a scientist, just a "freelance health reporter" for Reuters. Can it heal a broken heart? :-( We use a process of in vitro evolution called phage display to tailor the surface of the phage for specific binding to the cancer biomarkers.  Not exactly training the phage to dance and sing, but close!  The wikipedia entry on phage display is an ok intro, and I also introduce the topic in the book I co-authored with Dave Van Vranken (shameless plug -- sorry!).

I'm very enthusiastic about prospects for nanomedicine to transform diagnostics and the delivery of medicines.  Things are just getting started, and even in the initial results are very exciting.  But I might be biased in my opinion, as I have bet my career on this trend!  Anyway, it's a great time to be getting started in this area.  I think you'll have a really fun time doing research in this area. One thing that bothers me is the idea that people should sue for mistakes vs. negligence.

People make mistakes, including doctors. There seems to be this narrative that doctors aren't on the same side of patients and families. Most doctors have the patient's best interests at heart. If they screw up and weren't negligent, should we really try to ruin them? Huh? They're within their right to be defensive, but they shouldn't have to be.  Because if tort reform had been included it would have pissed off the trial lawyers, who are major Democratic donors.  We didn't need this monstrous piece of legislation to help 10% of the population who were uninsured, or the people who were being rejected for pre-existing conditions. If women would all just wear burkas we wouldn't have to put up with drivel like this. I totally thought it said wanking at first.  What most people don't know is that lawsuits aren't always determined by a jury. There's a clause in insurance policies called "duty to defend."

It means the insurance company decides when to settle and when to go to court. Often they will decide to settle rather than incur court costs and risk losing.

So the plaintiff gets money, insurance rates go up and everyone's costs increase. This submission has been automatically removed. Please review the guidelines in the sidebar about the types of submissions that are appropriate for /r/science.

*[I am a bot](/r/AutoModerator/comments/q11pu/what_is_automoderator/), and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2Fscience) if you have any questions or concerns.* Try a mountain and let your thoughts be clouds passing the mountain. Thoughts will come and go as the wind blows.  The request to audit the data came from one of the original CDC scientists who made the original conclusion because he obviously had doubts about it.  It's enough to validate the concerns that many already have.  It's a case of confirmation bias since further studies have shown no link.   Do you have any tips on how to focus it? i obsess over things from my past in a very unhealthy way and would rather look forward than back... &gt;"It's a lot more like "Ms. Smith is showing a somewhat elevated blood pressure after her procedure, there could be a million different reasons for this but let's run some screening tests to at least rule out anything serious."

That's not what 'defensive medicine' is. By definition it's something that's not necessarily in the best interest of the patient(the patient isn't relevant in the definition), but rather in the best interest of the physician. that helps too Thanks!  The short answer is "not yet."  My research lays the groundwork for engineers, entrepreneurs and others to do the hard work of getting to the market to impact society.  Anyway, such advances are coming, as we have licensed developments from my lab to companies. Precisely Many doctors who have good reviews on Yelp are those who freely hand out prescriptions and go along with whatever course of treatment the patient desires. This is often not in line with what is best for the patient.

Additionally, many patient's families are (understandably) dissatisfied when the patient dies. Their satisfaction has nothing do to with the level of care provided in most cases.

I have seen firsthand rationale, normally reasonable people consider suing a doctor because someone close to them died. I understand the desire to blame someone, but it's unhelpful that it's so easy, and often so successful, to sue in these situations. Well, for one thing, if it really doesn't matter, then why NOT do it?  ;)  In my experience though, directly challenging those thoughts isn't as useful as simply identifying them as what they are- exaggerations- and dismissing them.  I make a habit of treating my brain as somewhat separate from myself, and chiding it when it lies to me, the way you might scold a child.  I have no idea if this will help you or not, but it works for me.  Once I've dismissed the lie, I still have a lot of inertia to overcome, so I focus on the task I want to do and break it down into teensy-tiny steps.  In order to go for a walk, first I need to put my shoes on, then I need to get my coat etc.  On really bad days it's even smaller steps like "first I need to stand up".  I just focus really hard on each step until I've finished it and then move on to the next; I don't think about what comes next or what I'm building up to, I just think, "Now I am putting on my shoes."  Usually, getting started is the hard part and the rest comes pretty easily.

If the walk just is so unappealing that you feel a gut reaction of "I just really really *do not want to*", sometimes it helps to promise yourself a reward.  Coming up with a reward can be tough, because it's very individual.  Usually for me, it's whatever I would rather be doing instead of the walk  i.e., "If I go for this walk, then I can play Skyrim, but I can't play Skyrim until after I walk".  But this requires a certain degree of discipline, because obviously you can chose to say "f#&amp;% it, I can do whatever I want" and give yourself the reward anyway.  So it doesn't work for some people. The cheapest way to produce proteins is to use bacteria as little factories of the production.  But proteins produced in bacteria often (but not always) get jammed into inclusion bodies.  Once stuck in inclusion bodies, the proteins are unusable and tough to recover.  We reported a new way to recover them easily. Sorry, but that comment reeks of ignorance. You obviously have no idea how the process of funding scientific research works. The scientists whose work supports the indisputable fact that climate change is really not "a crock of shit" don't get any more money for reporting one kind of findings or another, and they don't get funded contingent upon producing results that fit in with some mainstream viewpoint. If you want to see the effects of money distorting scientific results, then you should be looking instead at the Koch-funded denialists I work as an associate at a home improvement store. I am on my feet for up to six hours at a time, constantly headed somewhere. My mood before and after I started this job is ridiculously different. I almost look forward to shifts just because I know I can get my mind out of the gutter for several hours. Heheh! No.  When meat is cooked and turns brown, it undergoes Maillard reactions, which chemically modify the meat.  Such chemical transformations cannot be reversed by the vortex fluid device. This is a bit old to respond to but I do recall reading a study on centenarians that showed that those who live to be over 100 have higher average amounts of telomerase expression. Of course, correlation doesn't imply causation and all that but it's interesting nonetheless.

If I had to make an educated guess, I'd say longevity couldn't be achieved with telomeres alone, but with a combination of therapies possibly including activation of telomerase genes. I read a fascinating book a year or two ago that was a bit old with 11 theories of aging, and I discussed it with my genetics professor at the time. 

He indicated that a few (I think 3-5) of the theories had been shown to be unlikely, but what causes us to live a long time is still a bit of a mystery.  Well see that's a slippery slope if you want to use such a loose definition. Ordering an exam that has no benefit to the patient but benefits the doctor means an exam that is expensive and has no purpose. That's basically fraud, not defensive medicine, which is what this article is about.

 And dying of tetanus is really nasty... Yeah - have you ever been sued?  You guys act like it's a simple process.  I was involved in a case where we did nothing wrong when I was a medical student, and for 3 years I was brought into deposition after deposition because the family would not give it up.  Every time one lawyer would drop the case the family would find another.  And I had to go to another deposition.  Even when you do nothing wrong you FEEL like you have done something wrong.  And never mind the time I had to waste with the hospital lawyers to go over my testimony time, after time, after time.  All for a BS case.  Eventually the family gave up after they couldn't find a 4th lawyer to take the case.  Luckily my hospital decided to fight the case.  Had they settled, I would have to put that on every state medical board application, and every job application for the rest of my life.  So please, don't tell me how easy it is to deal with malpractice.

Cases don't need to get to trail to eat at you over time.  Or to waste your time.  As much as I like to think I don't practice defensive medicine I am sure that experience has tainted my practice.   Well yeah...no child should have to go hungry tonight either, but in the real world they do. It's the sad reality of medicine that doctors need to be defensive in their practice, often to the point of excess. I'm one of those who disagree with the "click-baity" headline.

We need people to trust science, [not distrust it](http://www.washingtonpost.com/blogs/the-fix/wp/2015/01/30/americans-increasing-distrust-of-science-and-not-just-on-climate-change/). There is an entire documentary about it coming out.  A guy used drones and showed the massive sprinklers (seriously never seen any this big in my life even on farmland) spraying the sewage in the air.  People in neighboring towns were interviewed, you can see shit all over their homes, property, cars, and the towns smell like feces, no one will do anything about it as the hog farms are authorized to do this.  Craziest shit you'll ever see (no pun intended). Yes, Herv This reported treating cooked eggs with sodium borohydride and vitamin C.  Treatment with sodium borohydride can convert the protein from solid to liquid by reducing disulfide crosslinks in the protein.  In our work, we do not touch the chemical connectivity, and instead change the shape (conformation) of the proteins to restore the enzyme lysozyme. Interesting idea. Echoing what /u/eod21 said, although I can't claim personal experience, a lawsuit isn't something you simply have your receptionist put on your desk for you to sign. In some cases it can be an arduously drawn-out and painful process that can get a physician fired, bury him in debt, and make him difficult to hire. Doctors are defensive because they're expected to be flawless but every one of them is a human being that makes mistakes. You clearly have no idea how climate modeling works. That's okay, it's complicated stuff, and most people are not educated about it enough to understand. But when you pretend like you know something about it, you end up with a post that looks as dumb as the one above So an interesting follow-up to that is that we have no idea just how prevalent this over-active telomerase expression actually is in the overall population. I would actually be interested in seeing that. What may be entirely possible is that above-average telomerase activity puts you at higher risk for cancer, which we are pretty sure of at this point, but *you can also get lucky*. Indeed, one of the biggest factors in developing cancer is bad luck, a confluence of unfortunate genetic events.

It could be that many people with overactive telomerase do develop cancer and die, but perhaps if someone is lucky enough to dodge cancer development despite having one of the keystone features, i.e. overactive telomerase, they may indeed experience aging at a slower rate. This would then show as centenarians having this feature be more common. Food for thought! Spoken like someone who has never looked at an MRI scan. They are not the golden standard by a long shot. Get your facts straight before you make assumptions about medicine.  Find something to focus on. And try noting as a mental exercise. When you feel negative thoughts intruding, acknowledge it, describe the way you feel with a word, and get back to thinking about what it is you were doing. If you just try ignoring those thoughts you'll just think of them more.  If you walk into the ocean, yes. all regular exercise helps ease depression.  It's so crazy right?.  who would have ever guessed.  Also cocaine so you clean your house quick helps too.  Just sayin... I think what they were trying to tell you is that  real science actually happens in these so called "egghead" journals, not in "all the big magazines" and this illustrates one more reason why you aren't right  If you have insurance, start by finding out if they have a recommended office or dr. From there, it's really trial and error honestly. Because a lot of mental health can't be recreated in a lab, it's hit or miss, and there's a lot of treatments for it. The key is that you're comfortable and feel that your doc is listening to you. And that you're 100% honestly with them AND yourself. Holding back doesn't do anyone any good, and a worthwhile doctor won't judge you for your symptoms and resulting behaviors(assuming you're not hurting anyone obviously).

Good luck. This can be a difficult process but once you're on the path it gets easier.  English? That sounds like something out of a Stephen King horror novel.   The unfortunate thing about ruminating is that it generates thoughts that aren't part of useful processing of stress.  They just generate more stress and more bad thoughts and it doesn't end unless you cut it off.  It has been shown in some studies to actually worsen PTSD after traumatic events and it increases the likelihood that someone experiencing an upsetting event like a breakup will sink into a depression instead of going through the grief process and coming out the other side. After losing a family member as a result of negligence, I have no problem with additional tests... When I looked it up just now it wasn't a loose definition, it was more or less the definition.

I suppose it depends exactly what definition the article is using, the common definition seems to be "the practice of recommending a diagnostic test or treatment that is not necessarily the best option for the patient, but an option that mainly serves the function to protect the physician against the patient as potential plaintiff." or something similar.

I would tend to agree with you that it's stupid to order an exam with no purpose, but as you said that's the world we live in.

Are you a physician, out of curiosity? Yes, but I'm less interested in small, well-studied proteins that can readily refold.  The proteins my lab is trying to produce haven't been structurally characterized, likely because they are a pain in the neck to refold after protein expression.  Also, I want a method that's general, and doesn't require lots of optimization of buffers, etc.  Yes, the vortex fluid device does not damage the protein's connectivity.  Longer times or stronger forces can result in protein unfolding.  We have not looked at oxidative damage.  However, the assayed enzyme activity demonstrates restored enzyme function. So cure cancer, then use telomerase is what I'm hearing

Easy enough, right? :P Thanks for your very nice note.  Great story!  I can think of a several hundred really awesome scientific advances more worthy of a Nobel.  But thanks! Could that have anything to do with "defensive medicine" being on the rise...? Doesn't this fall under the "clear and present danger" exception for free speech? It's endangering the public health to spread misinformation about vaccines, it should be censored from the public view. [Some reading you might be interested in.](http://www.nejm.org/doi/full/10.1056/NEJMsa054479)

Medmal claims are on the decline.

There is nothing objectively wrong with our tort laws. There's a perception that old ladies are suing and winning millions because they spilled coffee on themselves. The media tended to leave out that mcdonalds had multiple complaints of burns from the coffee, that the woman suffered 3rd degree burns to her genitals and that she offered to settle for just the 50k in medical bills from her hospitalization. There is actually serotonin in dirt.  Some people have speculated that skin contact with dirt could allow absorption of the serotonin, but I don't think there's any evidence that we can actually use serotonin that way.  The study ORD_to_SFO mentioned, if it's the one I'm thinking of, actually had nothing to do with the odor of the tree-released compounds, which were not oils but actually pheromones.  They do have a strong scent, but the researchers believed they were actually entering the body and acting as anti-depressants in the brain, iirc. Setting aside the dangers of centrifugation for a moment, the vortex fluid device applies micron thin fluid layers to maximize sheer.  The patient cannot be shrunk to micron scale... My neighbor passed a few months ago and ever since his wife has been a wreck, as have her kids. She was prescribed Xanax which has helped her sleep, almost too much. She's retired so there's no reason for her to get out of bed. She tried walking yesterday and feels great. The fact that this article has fallen into my lap, via reddit, is just another reason to love reddit all the more. I can't wait to show her this article. Maybe it can pull her out of this rut. This article may save her life.  A successful lawsuit requires negligent.

"MIstake" is not a valid cause of action. The plaintiff must show the doctor deviated from the standard of care.

Medical malpractice cases are not easy, despite the perception.  Good question.  Go to conferences and network = best way to get jobs. In addition, the usual approaches (responding to ads, etc.) do work. May I ask what you do in medicine then? What, specifically, would you change? Yeah. Even assuming we find a way to prolong life, say, by increasing telomerase expression, we'd have to find a way to deliver that information effectively to every cell in the body (or the ones that perform mitosis, at least) which would be...challenging, I would think. Vast majority of neurosurgeons? Vast majority of doctors, is more like it. Why? Because they are rational people who are smart enough to grasp the nature of the incentives and disincentives surrounding them. If you want doctors to stop ordering useless tests, stop incentivizing them to do so.  A properly maintained bicycle chain should be wiped clean every week or 100 miles, whichever comes first, and then lubed every 200 miles.  But I'm a fanatic for bike maintenance.  

We have outreach events with tours of the School of Physical Sciences at UCI every so often, but I don't know too much about the scheduling. Perhaps check with the School? I practice defensive medicine.   I have been the subject of a board complaint (not lawsuit).  The complaint clear cut and was thrown out, however had to go through due process which took 8 months (quite quick really).  Regardless of me being in the right and having numerous testaments to this, the stress I was under, the sleepless nights the effect it had on my health and could have potentially had on other patients (due to me functioning less that 100%) is a nightmare.  Many medical personal who function under pressure daily in their jobs are "type A" they question everything to the nth degree if it goes wrong.  We are our own worst critics even when we know there is nothing else we could have done.
Now I am a specialist emergency/critical care veterinarian.  I wouldn't wish the stress I went through on anyone. I can only imaging that the associated stress would be amplified for a neurosurgeon. 
Defensive medicine is not just about covering all base through testing, it is about documenting these bases.  I have the luxury of recommending the tests, but as long as I document they were declined (finances come into my field here) I am covered (doesn't mean I still can't get dragged to the board).  A neurosurgeon and other human medical practitioners do not necessarily have this luxury or have it in a limited capacity.  Arse covering is an unfortunately necessary part of medicine everywhere. 
Edit: I am not American. Could be anything, like you said: they are just lines. Don't underestimate just how terrifying a forest at night is.  Even people with no history of anxiety can get totally freaked out.  Every now and then there's even tragic cases of people going off the trail, panicking, and getting lost within a few miles of civilization or being so scared they can't think straight and run off a cliff or something.  So yeah, definitely not just you. Awesome!  You're in for a fun, challenging and always interesting ride.  Start skimming Science or Nature every week.  Just learn what kind of science and area that would make you run to the lab every day.  Good luck! When I was young, like a kid, I did this but I always walked until I saw something. A certain shape, a unusual colour, an interesting animal. Became a bit of a fun past time and allowed me to focus on things. About 100-years ago, Alexander Fleming crystallized the enzyme lysozyme directly from his own tears.  Now that's a bodacious experiment!  Seriously, lysozyme is present in high concentration in tears to breakdown the cell walls of any encroaching bacteria. [Silly Walks work even better.](http://youtu.be/iV2ViNJFZC8) All surgeons get sued. It's inevitable. I know a few surgeons very well, and they've explained how often surgeons get sued and why they get sued. This is a quick summary of what I've been told:

Usually, major lawsuits are filed at least once a year against a surgeon. Major meaning that the plaintiff suing the surgeon has a good case because something actually went wrong, either due to negligence or just bad luck. (This isn't counting sometimes up to a dozen other lawsuits that are filed and dropped quickly, which still cost money.)

When these lawsuits are filed, they are filed against every single doctor, surgeon, specialist, anesthesiologist, supervisor, technician, and everyone else who had anything to do with the patient (even if their role was unrelated to the problem.) The patient and their lawyer don't know enough about medicine to identify what went wrong, so they drag everybody in to give a deposition and try to get them to point fingers at each other so that they can narrow down who they're trying to sue. Sometimes they get lucky and the healthcare professionals give them good info, but most likely the problem wasn't really anyone's *fault* to begin with so they just say whatever they can to shift the blame to someone else and hopefully they can go home.

At this point, the lawyer picks a person or persons they think were responsible for the issue and actually takes them to trial. From here, it's apparently like rolling the dice because exactly **no one** involved with the trial is a medical expert, including whatever morally bankrupt "expert" witness they drag in and pay to say whatever it takes to win the case. Whoever has the better lawyer wins.

My friends have said they've only seen a handful of malpractice suits where an actual incident of negligence occurred, the plaintiff found the guy responsible, and the were able to win money in court. First, be tenacious about everything in your career.  For example, there are not too many openings for HS students at UCI.  Our labs tend to be pretty full, and regulations make it tough to accept HS students.  However, you can try emailing professors directly.  Be sure to state career goals, GPA, and reason for wanting to join the lab in your email.  Good luck! No, you're right; it can be very difficult to study.  I was looking up some stuff today about rumination for other people in this thread, and I came across a paper about how to adapt typical therapy to help people who ruminate, and it contained references to several studies about rumination that were exclusively about people with severe depression.  It was reassuring, there is work being done on this.  What was amazing though was how much work goes into just identifying different types of severe depression and categorizing patients so they can be studied more effectively.  It seems like a lot of the work on severe depression right now is on figuring out how to divide it into even smaller groups so we can find more commonalities. We've restored a fully denatured and unfolded protein in hard-boiled egg whites to its correct structure and therefore function.  No breaking down. Thanks for stating this. Also, just to add to this, there were tons of tests we ordered in the hospital that were technically unnecessary, but which were still informative. Just because a test is negative does not mean it was unnecessary, yet many papers that review hospital testing use this sort of measure to retrospectively sort through which tests were "necessary" or not. For example, we ordered blood tests on every post-op patient every day-- the lab would sometimes tell us that these were unnecessary, but every time that someone's kidneys ended up failing or someone had a surprising amount of blood loss a day or two after surgery or someone had a super high potassium level that could have caused heart problems, we were grateful we had done these tests. But if someone asked me in a survey why I am ordering these tests, I'm not going to try to justify it by anecdotal experiences, I'm going to push my agenda and say I order lots of tests to practice defensive medicine because I don't want to get sued for missing someone's post-op renal failure, etc., so I check labs for it. Regardless of what reasons I give, it is clear that this is actually all based on reasonable decision making, and these sorts of things are not meaningful sources of inflationary costs of medicine. Interestingly, however, the tests that we did that were actually unnecessary typically had nothing to do with "defensive medicine," and everything to do with hospital policies (e.g., with every transferred patient, we were required to repeat all the imaging and scans because 'something new might have developed' or 'might have been missed on the other hospital's scans'). This sort of thing does occur and is ridiculous, but it is not truly driven by defensive medicine-- it is extremely profitable to doctors and hospitals.  Heheh.  Nope.  We had this technique that was working very well with denatured proteins produced by bacteria, and I was looking for more examples to impress reviewers with the generality of the technique.  Unboiling an egg sounded challenging.... Willing?  Probably not that hard.  Actually following through with it?  That might be a LOT harder.  So yeah, that is one limitation.  I do see a lot of studies though that make use of inpatients at mental institutions, where they can be required to do x type of exercise for x amount of time each week very easily, as well as being evaluated very extensively for different traits besides severity of symptoms. This motherfuckers made a Lament Configuration to destroy the Cenobites. Thanks!  Sorry to hear it.  Hang in there; the material gets much better by 51C.  Yes, I'm always looking for outstanding co-workers.  Send me an email for instructions on how to apply. I never once said that CT scans are bad... I simply said they're not always the best decisions.

I've written detection algorithms for both MR and CT, so feel free to go fuck yourself with your phony self-righteousness if it makes you feel better. &gt;  not they do make mistake

Replace that with people expect dr's to be all knowing. There's a similar feeling in IT.
99% of the cases can be virus A -- which there is not much they can do about except let your body do it's thing. That 1% could be bacterial -- but since it's so rare and shows similar symptoms -- they treat it like A. Person dies.

Now the dr has to choose between running every single possible test on everyone to avoid a lawsuit. It's stupid. Good. I would much rather spend more time and money now and know exactly what is or isn't wrong, and then fix it. Rather than have something missed and have to settle for permanent impairment, maiming, or death, and a law suit for money instead of my health. If they won't do the tests out of duty let them do it out of fear. We certainly DID need this legislation. The Status Quo was broken. 10% of the population is over 30 million people, and fixing healthcare also had a hand in helping the economy recover, since healthcare costs were the biggest reason for personal bankruptcies in America. Thanks.  :)  It's hard to say if talking would help me right now.  I'm in a place where there is really nothing I can do but keep working on improving my self-care, and it drives me nuts, but no amount of dwelling on it helps because there is no "solution".  I don't really have anyone to talk to anymore, but I also feel like talking just allows me to wallow in sadness when it's more useful to distract myself.  But I also worry that if I don't get enough social interaction, or discuss my feelings with someone at some point, I could maybe kind of go off the deep end a bit.  I don't really know what I should do about it.  :/ According to doctors I know, it's easy to find somebody to sign a affidavit for a lawsuit, even a frivolous one. Lawyers constantly pull in bogus "expert" witnesses that have no idea what they're talking about and would be way worse practicing doctors than the defendants. Most malpractice lawsuits are frivolous and without having the training and experience that doctors have you just can't easily understand what went wrong or how it went wrong or whose fault it was... if it was anyone's fault at all. Actually, exactly none of the articles you referenced say anything about "this very issue." Yes, they are discussing the rising costs of healthcare, but none discuss the costs of defensive medicine, which the Op's original article is about. As far as "sun light" is concerned, it is already a violation of federal law for a physician to receive any extra remuneration (i.e. - kickbacks) for any extra diagnostic procedures ordered. So, what exactly are you getting at? Can running do this do or will I not get the same benefits? While that's true and I'm sure there are some things we could learn from the English health care system, we're two different countries with very different sets of problems in implementing our systems.  If we were just New York and the surrounding suburbs, or DC, or San Francisco/LA/San Diego, or the New England area then we'd probably have a far more similar system, but what works well in those places is far less practical in rural Montana or Iowa or any number of other places.  Unfortunately we have people all over with a huge variety of needs and beliefs and cultures and we're trying to come up with a system for everyone which is a lot harder here than in many european cultures which are far more localized and uniform in their needs. Because trials are expensive and a lot of times the surgeon is at fault.

A lot can go wrong, minor slip-ups mean major tragedies. Carelessness, even the most minor should not be acceptable when you're talking about someone's life or way of life.

Sure, the insurance industry is making a literal killing on all outcomes, but it's not the only reason why surgery is so expensive.

 What was the outcome? OR, if doctors are ordering tests and procedures, and doing it to protect themselves from malpractice, then they must think the tests and procedures are related in some way to the outcome for the patient - so they're not unnecessary but just expensive and not recommended in all cases, and that's only because we've turned health care into a commodity, so they're supposed to cut costs instead of do everything possible for the patient. If they do these things based on the belief that it will reduce the probability of a malpractice suit doesn't it mean these tests and procedures are the opposite of malpractice, good practice? Wife had brain surgery, a vp shunt put in, didnt even need it. He made one little mistake, and my wife has been suffering for 4 years. We didnt sue, but we should have. Now we cant make that equal income as a normal couple can. :( you assume to much with that hive mind.  By what standard do you deem it "not rampant" or not having an impact on the system? Ob-GYNs have a 70% risk of getting sued in their careers, and the flood of lawsuits have made practicing of medicne extremely difficult. My attending in NYC delivers 150 babies a year, and has to deliver the first 70 to pay off his malpractice insurance for the year. That's an insane amount of overhead despite working in a hospital. Go ask /r/medicine if they don't feel the pressure constantly. I think this is due an asterisk.  I routinely walk several miles for my job and my depression is now worse than it has been in nearly a decade.  I am actually typing this after hiding from friends and coworkers down an alley after "going for a walk" at a bar.

I don't want to move. So many things to make it shrink, not mention of anything making it grow... There is a documentary about this. And it's actually pretty shocking the difference between what the media reported at the time and what actually happened with the hot coffee. Her burns were absolutely horrible.  &gt; Nobody does that.

Gonna call "obvious overstatement" on that. I've seen it quite frequently. Wait, length is immediately bad?

Healthcare is complex. Considering that the textbooks that accompany a PhD are cumulatively 20,000 pages for a specific practice -- 20,000 pages governing the entire ACA is relatively minor. You're kidding, right? You're right in that they don't  go to trial, but that's because the insurance settles out of court....because they're too expensive to take to trial.  Those two things aren't even close to similar. Is it?  If I was one of those 100 and had a 1% chance of dying I'd want to take the damn test.  &gt; Not all doctors order extra tests just to protect themselves from law suits.

Yes, yes they do.

Source: my father has worked for more than 30 years in one of the largest hospitals in the United States &amp; ranked as one of the best physicians in the country, he told me exactly about this phenomenon recently (well before I stumbled across this article).

All doctors do order extra tests because **it costs them, the doctor, nothing.** The costs are paid by the patient's health insurance. Further, if they didn't order the tests, they would potentially open themselves up to malpractice claims (meritless or otherwise).

This is all not to mention that it backlogs the system with patients getting tests that the medical professionals they don't even possibly need. Unfortunately your comment will not be taken anecdotally. Why bring it up?  ideas and thoughts are parabolic in nature, the snowball effect My wife is an MD and there's a reason why she didn't become a surgeon -- you have complete control of someone's life literally in your hands.

*Be as defensive as you want.* &gt; Medical malpractice cases are not easy, despite the perception.

The point isn't to win the case, it's to try and force a settlement versus literally a decade spent in the courtroom. That's why I think everyone who sues for malpractice, barring the exceptionally rare actual victims of medical negligence, is a slimy schmuck. Most physicians do.Source: I am a physician. Honestly with a 20% percent HIV rate for american homosexual men in the united states.  I wonder how many from that study are as a result from that. That being said still crazy.

I can't find the time article saying percent of populations with HIV. But here is the wiki stating new infection rates http://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/HIV_and_men_who_have_sex_with_men#HIV_Infection_Rates

CDC as well, it may be worxe then 20 https://www.aids.gov/hiv-aids-basics/hiv-aids-101/statistics/ Frivolous lawsuits are frivolous until you or someone you love is the victim. &gt; I myself have been the victim of medical malpractice and it has had an extremely destructive effect on my life. I still lost in court.

You just contradicted yourself. You clearly weren't the victim of malpractice. A jury even determined as much. Man try explaining a seizure to someone.  The fact that it doesn't always manifest as a violent shaking absolutely floors a lot of my clients.  &gt;statistics mean nothing to an individual that it affects 

Very well said. It drives me crazy when something definitive is deemed "too rare to be true\accounted for." Eppur si muove people :) I've been in two frivolous lawsuits in the past 5 years. I was dropped from both of them, but in the meantime they were very time consuming, and very mentally and emotionally taxing. In my very small personal sample size, they were rampant. That's so very awesome. I hope you truly get fully better! ...Assuming (incorrectly) that the legal system has anything at all to do with quality control.  &gt; This is a large part of the reason why why healthcare costs in the US are high. 

This is exactly right. Doctors have to order unnecessary tests, patient's health insurance has to pay for the tests, everyones rates go up. Additionally, it takes longer to get the test done because of the backlog of people who don't need said test getting said test.

The other half of the coin is malpractice insurance costs an unbelievable amount of money, which doctors then are forced to pass along in the bill to the patient / health insurance. Actually, what people want is for doctors (who make huge sums of money in comparison to the average wage) to stop killing people due to incompetence.

The fact it takes lawsuits and "defensive medicine" to accomplish that, speaks volumes.

I make a fraction of what a neurosurgeon makes and I've never killed anyone because I did my job poorly. Most people responding "good" don't understand what defensive medicine means.

They are talking about unnecessary tests.

These are not only an expensive burden on the health system, they also harm patients more than they protect patients.

Unnecessary scans lead to false positive results and unnecessary procedures.

Not the surgeons fault, though. 
We torture them with outrageous frivolous lawsuits. It's not even just negligence or a mistake. People will try to sue for any negative outcomes.  You can still sue. I think s/he is getting at the hospital's profit margin. A lot of people feel there aren't enough checks and balances in the medical system so far as finances go. I agree that carelessness should not be acceptable, but we also shouldn't be so quick to punish those who are only trying to help for honest mistakes.

I agree that insurance costs aren't the only driver of high health care costs, but they're certainly a factor.

As with all things, there's ambiguity in these situations. I would never claim that there should be no malpractice suits or that there should be many more. But I think it's fair to recognize that three siren could use some improvement.

And more importantly, that doctors and patients are on the same side. We shouldn't treat the relationship as an adversarial one. What? You swear I meant every lawsuit I'd without merit.  &gt;So the plaintiff gets money, insurance rates go up and everyone's costs increase.

Truly frivolous lawsuits can be thrown out, you know. Settlements are made to mitigate risk, i.e. *reduce costs over the long term*. Insurance companies aren't going to settle unless they reach a deal that they believe to be cheaper than going to court.

Settlements themselves are not what drive rates up. Back to what /u/vrades421 was referring to, it's more about our standard for an "acceptable" mistake. So....how did they obtain this data? I don't see any sort of proof. Other than the quote below I'm not sure what proof there is.

"Because Craigslist randomly enters individual markets with respect to HIV trends, it provided a unique natural experiment setup from which the researchers could uncover the connection."

Im guessing they checked the HIV testing data with Craigslist personal add spikes? Would be cool if someone could help me out here. Brain surgery is incredibly demanding, and requires a couple of decades-worth of of schooling, internship and residency. A single slip-up can not only kill the patient, or ruin their life, but it can also destroy the doctor's career. 

So, if brain surgery is one of the most difficult, and demanding things you can do, as a doctor and surgeon, then don't you think that they *should* be more careful than a GP, or something? &gt;but an option that mainly serves the function to protect the physician against the patient as potential plaintiff

By showing that the patient is not suffering from any condition that might endanger the patients life?

From what I've seen "defensive medicine" is the practice of ordering tests that the doctor believes are unnecessary. Of course, doctors are sometimes wrong and these tests do find problems. In those cases we call them "life saving tests" and no lawsuit follows.

And in those cases the doctor takes the credit. Have fun determining frivolous without due diligence.  And the test costs $12,000. And it is being given to tens of millions of people.

But then it gets murkier, what if the test also has a small false positive rate, and the followup procedure to validate the diagnosis has a significant complication rate of its own.

This is somewhat the situation with prostate tests now. Many doctors believe the prostate tests result in more harm than good.
 Doctors are patients aren't on necessarily on the same side. It's actually a very difficult relationship. A doctor has the experience and knowledge and statistical understanding, the patient has their own wants needs and feelings. These two are competing. That being said, I certainly don't have any adversity with my doctor.

The problem here is there is no good answer where all parties are satisfied.  Walking is generally good, but depression in those more active require increased activity stimuli.  The adrenaline rush can be a drug and like other addictions it can require increased experience to achieve the same high. Yes, at the bigger hospitals I've been at (including one of the biggest in the country), a plethora of tests are ordered because the physicians can basically do whatever they want.

At smaller hospitals, I have not seen the vast amount of labs ordered by physicians, and typically they do not even allow physicians to monitor antibiotics because there is so much incorrect and inappropriate monitoring for antibiotics such as vancomycin or aminoglycosides that they task the pharmacy to monitor and adjust those doses. I've seen oncologists stop a patients vancomycin because the nurse drew the lab after she gave the next does which gave a completely incorrect trough. All the physician had to look at was the time the vancomycin was administered and the time the trough was drawn; or, you know, talk to the nurse.

Your father has the benefit of a healthcare system that has a lot of money to spend and is possibly getting full reimbursement from insurances and Medicare. 

Most physicians do not work for these healthcare systems. A ton of physicians are working for healthcare systems which are low on funds and are trying to save as much money as possible. As a regular GP, my father is required to continue to pay tens of thousands a year for 10 years after he retires due to the threat of lawsuits. Why would I? I'm not defending the doctor - I think it's lamentable. You could probably fit a bill that would have helped the 10% without insurance and banned the denial of coverage issue (the two driving factors of this legislation) on 100 pages.  There's a lot in the ACA that didn't need to be there. Doing a test is always better than no test. That test could save a patient's life.  For someone to get sued for malpractice, 3 components are necessary.  The physician is suspected of being negligent (which can be difficult to prove/disprove), he or she treated the patient outside the "standard of care", and the result was harm to the patient.  Standard of care is a tricky one, the are volumes of guidelines but most all of them are based on the studies of prior cases and assumptions of their conclusions.  So when physicians follow the guidelines even when their own clinical judgement tells them "it's unlikely to be disease A, but I can't be 100% sure and if I'm wrong the patient suffers/dies and I get sued" they order the battery of tests that some perceive as unnecessary.  This is what many people equate with defensive medicine.  However, if the battery of tests is the only way to be sure you are not missing something and most physicians run them (not to mention hospitals vigorously encouraging it) IT BECOMES the standard of care.  Then, acting on your own clinical judgement and avoiding the tests are now practicing outside that standard.  So the trend becomes the trap.  The hospital systems install protocols which direct diagnostics and therapy based on initial triage reports from the nurse at the front door and nursing assessments of patients during their workup.  So if a patient meets even the minimal risk of developing a blood clot I either have to give them anticoagulants or thoroughly document my decision not to (thereby admitting my guilt in the event a blood clot occurs).  Walking is very helpful to reduce the chances of blood clots, but due to the litigation from prior patient falls/injuries I can't just order the nurses to allow the patient to walk.  I have to document why, how often, and with assistance.  If I do order them to let the patient walk, the nurses have been given authority by the hospital to disregard my order and call a supervisor to report it. This leads to phone calls, meetings, more documentation.  If I just given the anticoagulants and let the hospital confine my patient to their bed with bed alarms and such, the anticoagulants have the risk of causing a serious bleed or renal failure and it takes longer for the patient to heal because they are now sedentary.  People do expect or at least hope their doctors to be 100% on the ball and sometimes they expect them to be 100% perfect (right or wrong, it's a typical perception).  But what is often overlooked is how busy we are trying to process not just the medicine, but the complex protocols and documentation for every little decision.  To me it is more daunting than just thinking about medicine. 20% of (black) gay and bisexual men. Not the entire gay male population... While I love the joke side of it the fact is Autism isn't a virus.  We dont know.  All evidence to date supports the hypothesis that it is continuous at all scales but that doesnt excluse the possibility that it has a fine-grained quantized structure. There are several points we are purposefully leaving out.

Malpractice insurance would only be about 5% or less of a neurosurgeon's salary and that is IF they had to pay it in the first place. It is covered by the hospital in almost every case.  There are very few neurosurgery private practices because of the equiptment and resources needed to perform it, however IF you some how were doing procedures out of your clinic, it would be a tax write-off for your practice.
Additionally, very few neurosurgeons are losing their licenses due to complaints. Heck, just last week we had an article about a Dallas area neurosurgeon who was allowed to continue to practice after it had been discovered he was on cocaine. He had to mame many more patients [and in a very obvious manner] before anything happened to him. FUCK! Tuna causes autism!!! People can't have it both ways.  Either you pay for all the tests, or you can't sue the doctor when something bad happens to you. A lot of the anti-vaxers I know are right wing nuts that listen to Alex Jones. 

This is not quite a partisan thing but just a general stupid thing.  Not sure if you're serious or not but we can't actually put a telescope outside of the galaxy.

One of the more costly but effective techniques is to spend lots of money and time building telescopes that observe in the Far Infrared regime that will study the dust distributions, formations, and properties so that it can be modeled with much higher accuracy than at the present and thus subtracted from CMB data.

Studying interstellar dust is a large field in its own right. Interstellar dust and the magnetic fields around active star formation regions is a hot topic. That's an incredible series of false statements.  The last one in particular is a doozy; the reason neurosurgeons are paid what they are is because of the intensive amount of training required to save people who would otherwise die.  That people still die isn't an indictment of neurosurgeons, nor is the fact that some make mistakes. That statement has become incorrect in recent years. Read this:


http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bundled_payment


There is now a financial DISINCENTIVE for additional testing, as hospitals will get paid per diagnosis rather than per test. So, hospitals are urging their physicians to do LESS testing. Of course, this pressure goes in direct opposition to a physician's fear of lawsuits. 

 It might also be worth mentioning that melanoma is only 2 percent of all skin cancer cases. This whole conversation is ridiculous.

If my doctor orders a test that I don't need 996 times out of a thousand, but those other four times kill me, well, I want that test.

You might call it unnecessary or defensive medicine.  I'm okay with that.  One helping of defensive medicine, please. Yes, I expect the doctor to just take anything I say ad truth and immediately operate. No confirmations necessary. I know that feeling. I went undiagnosed for years too. I've never really had the memory problems but my attention and drive were really effected. That's the dangers of depression. If you have it long enough it can just go slowly and it becomes normal to you. With treatment and time it gets better. You'll start loving things again. Just take it one day at time. Some will be good. Some will be bad, but just keep moving forward. Maybe walking isn't for you, but try picking up an old hobby or finding a new one. Having something to keep your mind busy really helps too.  It's starting to look as though the microbiome has been implicated in all manners of disease- as far as I'm aware, it may play a role in the etiology of a variety of digestive disorders, metabolic disorders (obesity), autoimmune disorders, mental disorders (depression, OCD), and now bones? I look forward to the day where a typical checkup at the doctor's office includes a peek into the microbiome, and a few pills (reminiscent of SER-109 in design) to be as commonplace as multivitamins to keep our microbiomes in check. I hope the mainstream medical community is not failing to recognize the significance of the microbiome. I wait for the day that psychiatrists prescribe probiotics.  i had a friend die of heart failure at 31, medicine is complicated and neurosurgeons are practicing the most complicated of all medicine. Defensive medicine isn't a bad thing, more information, even if negative, is better. Always question, even the 'slam dunks' because that is how you get better. In retrospect you can see patterns and that's how you save someones life tomorrow.  &gt; Carelessness, even the most minor should not be acceptable when you're talking about someone's life or way of life.

This is something we need to come to terms with at some point as a society. People demand perfection from doctors when that's just plainly unrealistic. You wrote carelessness but even with the most care possible mistakes happen every single day because of human nature. The big problem is that even the most careful person makes mistakes but it's mentally tough to come to terms with that when dealing with human lives. Everybody makes small mistakes at work but somehow we assume that we are immune to that when lives are at stake.  
Essentially we need to figure out as a society which model we want to adopt, the European model of "mistakes happen" where you can get some money for honest mistakes but not exorbitant amounts; or the American model where we drive up healthcare costs due to legitimate AND frivolous lawsuits. There are other factors at play like the need for people in the US to make money from mistakes because additional health-care is expensive and so on. &gt; The point isn't to win the case, it's to try and force a settlement versus literally a decade spent in the courtroom.

That is only worthwhile if the actual damages that will be paid are significant enough to warrant the litigation costs.  Punitive damages don't change anything since they are rarely awarded except for the most egregious cases - like a doctor operating on you while intoxicated.

People are not performing decade long lawsuits over a bruised arm.   Great post. I'd give you gold but alas I am poor. so why is it called "defensive medicine" and not just "good medicine." because honestly this is something any responsible doctor would do. That criterion is incredibly easy to fulfil however. We estimate that roughly 20% of our patients get some form of care that deviates from best practices / standard of care due to simple mistakes. The issue is that when you have patients that are on 10 different medications and have 5 different diseases being managed (not an uncommon scenario), making a small mistake when one specialist prescribes a drug that has a rare side-effect when given with another drug for example. Things like this (and a defib 'restarting' a heart, and so on) are all excellent proof that visual media like film and movies are *fantastic* about transferring information widely.

Shame it's not always the *right* information that ends up retained... &gt;and a lot of times the surgeon is at fault.

And you have sources to back up this statement? 

&gt;A lot can go wrong, minor slip-ups mean major tragedies.

Yes a lot can go wrong, and minor slip ups do mean tragedies. I however do not see how this is remotely exclusive to doctors or surgeons at all. Right engineers and  pilot are not in the least bit responsible for the lives of millions of people a year. The average banker you deal with on a day to day basis cannot ruin a persons life with a mistake correct? What about police men, district attorneys, and politicians? These people are essentially soley responsibly for the daily life of everybody 
in a country. 

So clearly you advocate for just as black and white punishments for minor mistakes for all of these groups of  people correct?  Because at the very least I hope we are not simply singling out doctors and surgeons based upon unsupported opinions.  Well the situation is much more nuanced than this. In reality you come in with a persistant cough and we know your chances of just having a cough are 95%. However there is a 5% chance that it may be something more severe like lung cancer, pneumonia, TB,.. presenting atypically. Now we decide what to test for, if anything. And remember that each test also has a false positive rate where we may incorrectly diagnose you and cause you stress and possibly bodily harm with treatments.
 You cannot sweepingly say all doctors order extra tests to protect themselves from lawsuits. That's false.

Sure, there's physicians that order more tests than they otherwise would. But it's not all doctors and it's not just to cover their ass. But at the large hospital I work, there's a huge push to minimize labs. And, sure, it makes me uncomfortable sometimes because I trained initially at a huge academic center where we could order anything for learning purposes. But I don't order things because I worry about being sued. 9bpm9 has it right that it's frequently just because the ordering physician isn't being mindful. Your dad works at Nintendo General? Hey, give this person some credit, their dad told them something once, and their dad is one of the best doctors in the country according to something apparently. As a non-American: your court and legal system need a serious overhaul. A lot of stuff that people can sue for in the US would get thrown out of court in most of the rest of the western developed world. Did you get a perfect SAT score given how important that test is for your future and how many years of schooling you had before you took it? You'd be mad at me if I suggested you should have been "more careful" when studying or taking it. Yes, *you* might, just like myself or indeed anyone. But it drives the cost of medicine up, to the tune of $650 billion dollars per year, and potentially limits other people from gaining access.

Besides, the whole point of 'defensive medicine' is that it's not necessarily in the patient's interest anyway. There are places in the world where doctors run many fewer tests than US physicians do, with the same outcomes. Sometimes more tests aren't better. Simply because you don't understand it does not make it deceptive or complex. Legislation drafting is its own special profession for lawyers. 

I imagine if you went to view a NASA satellite mission ops manual, you might find it too is extremely complex and even perhaps deceptive, in your opinion.  The heart attack thing rings a very loud bell. My last three STEMI patients had atypical symptoms (back pain, abdominal pain, and dyspnea) the one with back pain was 28 and was having a full blown heart attack. The other two were late thirties and were also having full blown heart attacks. 

Atypical presentation is seen a lot in Women and Diabetics. Standard symptoms include Chest pain, jaw pain, left arm pain, nausea/vomiting, and trouble breathing. A lot of Diabetics and Women I've personally seen complain of Abdominal pain or back pain. It's the weirdest thing on this Earth to see someone with no chest pain who is having a huge heart attack. I think they mean that not every area is covered by craigslist so they would look at the data for when an area was added and the new cases of hiv. The amount of personal adds overtime could form a correla too I think you see the extremes on the internet, very few cases actually get to court I've never seen anything like it, I mean how in the hell is it allowed.  They should air drop feces all over the hog farm owners mansion and see how he likes it. &gt; If they do these things based on the belief that it will reduce the probability of a malpractice suit doesn't it mean these tests and procedures are the opposite of malpractice, good practice?

The argument is about missing a diagnosis which is punished in a court of law. While statistically the patient would be better off not getting additional tests (often using ionizing radiation), a few patients do benefit - we just can't tell which ones. So when we miss a diagnosis because we didn't run a test that would have helped only this specific patient, that starts lawsuits. Also it's very hard to quantify how different tests for low-probability diseases cause harm and few doctors have a good grasp on this either. A doctor is _always_ on the same side as his patients. By definition. A doctor who takes his job and oath seriously anyway.Their job is to listen to the wants and feelings of their patients and put their knowledge to use in providing precisely that which suits the patient's care needs the most. The hardest part of being a doctor is actually finding out what the patients wants, needs and feelings are, so you can help them   in the best way possible for them. Most patients aren't very straightforward with what they really want however, which makes communication skills so incredibly important for a doctor. maybe they are settled out of court I think if a person is going to die without a surgery and the doctor explains the risks, there should be no basis to sue, but that there is a public record of the surgery for all time so that other patients and potential employers can be informed. Tools could be made to collect this data and present it for easy comparison. http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jonathan_Gruber_(economist)#Controversies

http://www.politifact.com/truth-o-meter/article/2013/dec/12/lie-year-if-you-like-your-health-care-plan-keep-it/

Add to that the promise that many Democrats made that it would save the average family $2500 a year and you have yourself a deceptive bill. &gt; Carelessness, even the most minor should not be acceptable when you're talking about someone's life or way of life.

Except that's not possible on a human level.

As long as humans are running the show, there will be mistakes. You can't get around that.

I mean, there's the dude that shows up drunk (that's a definite lawsuit), but there's also the dude that's been preforming surgery for 6 hours and then his hand twitches (maybe he's low on b12 or something, or maybe his hand just twitched without asking him). The latter is still a mistake, but should not be punished.

Assuming a career length of 40 years, everybody screws up a few times. What you're saying is that people have no place in medicine. A number of states, California among them, have limits on malpractice suits. In CA, I believe it is $250,000. That's for the entire judgment. In most major cases, it is difficult to cover attorney's fees with that. As a result, patients who have suffered from negligent or reckless action by neurosurgeons or other doctors, are unable to find lawyers that will even take the case.  Unless you're australian or melanin-deprived like gingers and albinos. Wow, what's up with you?
And of course nobody is saved/aided on a daily basis, surgeons are just paid to kill one person a year and do nothing else.
Are you 12?  Do you know anything about this? the life in the ocean needs oxygen to breathe as well.  Imagine if we deplete the oceans oxygen levels we will see unprecedented die offs of sea life.  There should just be a rating system that pays doctors to rate other doctor's surgeries anonymously. Diagnosis, pictures and outcome all analyzed. One is a overall rating of the doctor's performance, and another is the recommendations for future improvement.

Then make the results public and let people make tools to collect and display the information for easy comparison. Can somebody explain to me how this is done differently in Europe? Are doctors there less easily sued for malpractice?  I'm talking total cases, some races are more prone to it specifically but they are more prone to skin cancer in general. Nah, the issue really is about an unpleasant gray zone in the medical field - basically, and unfortunately, it comes down to how careful do we want to be as a society.

Docs can order every test twice, treat everything they find (no matter how benign it probably is), and maybe 1/1000 times they'll actually improve someone's life by finding that super rare thing.  But you do that over enough people and enough areas of medicine, and what you end up with is a lot of people with exorbitant bills, a financially untenable medical system, and a lot of complications from tests (e.g. enough CT scans and you'll give someone cancer - it may seem harmless, but in the long run it isn't always).

Statistically that sort of care doesn't seem good.  That said, emotionally no one wants to think that their doctor *isn't* looking for everything.  We want to know we're healthy, and if that means more tests so be it.  The other people can be prudent with testing, I want the works!  But enough people with that mindset, and we're back to square one.  Docs have to find the right line, where they're doing the right amount of tests, but also missing as little as possible.  Now add the complication that not a single one of the tests is perfect, and that means even doing a test on every single person the docs are still going to miss some people with the disease.

It definitely isn't easy, and it's motivated by doctors caring that they're doing the right thing, despite there being no definite guideline as to what the right thing is. Who needs craigslist personals when we have Tinder? It is like the home shopping network for hookups. Too bad coffee is disgusting. So it was a mistake. I realize this is probably a sensitive issue for you, but I think you made the right choice, so long as it wasn't willful negligence. Human error is unavoidable Even if you have a 99% success rate, there are going to be some horribly unlucky people.The surgeon probably remembers what he did and it will nag at the back of his mind every time he does that procedure again, maybe saving more lives than he would have otherwise. Fortunately, Medicare is now requiring that all doctors publicly post their outcomes data, so complications post-treatment for cauda equina syndrome will become a thing of the past! In that no one will ever want to take a cauda equina case again. Weve discussed it quite a bit and believe back in 2011 my wife tried. No one would really pick up the case and ive developed heart disease since then (BAV). Its just made my family and wife refocus their energy on my treatment. I appreciate the advise. &gt; I don't think patients, especially neurosurgery patients, are sitting there praying something goes wrong. 

No, but the moment something goes wrong, they blame the doctor, thanks to scumbag lawyers. You're paralyzed from the waist down because you crashed while drunk driving? It must be the trauma surgeon's fault.  I have a brain tumour. I'm 27 years old. 

Unlike the vast majority of cancers - its very unlikely I could ever go into full remission with brain cancer. I welcome any further tests. In fact - my initial diagnosis was a Grade2 oligodendroglioma (prognosis, 10-12 years), and with extra genetic testing, it was changed to a Grade3 astrocytoma (prognosis 5-7 years). 

When you look down a microscope to perform the histology of a brain tumour - the cells of origin can be the same for wildly different types of tumour. And there can be a mix, too. 

My glial cells can look just a little different, leading to a Grade2 diagnosis. But the ATRX, IDH, and chromosome deletion tests tell another story. Because brain tumour change over time and become more aggressive - these tests can show that "yes it LOOKS like a Grade2, but it CANT be, as only Grade3 have these mutations".

Would it be malpractice for a doc who treated a patient based on the fact his histology report done be the guys in the labs said Grade2? i.e. no radiotherapy, no chemotherapy - lets just give you an MRI in 6 months time.

12 months later, Oh shit, your tumour has grown massively, we can now safely call it a grade 3. But it's probably too late at that point. Brain cancer isn't like other cancers because you cannot just cut a massively chunk out of your brain to be sure you've got every last strand of a messy tumour. That'd be a lobotomy. You can do this with most other cancers. Think: removing an entire breast for a tumour a couple of centimetres across. Think: a whipples procedure where the patients entire gut is removed and they take enzymes for the rest of their life to digest food.

Source: mother diagnosed with breast cancer in July '14, dad with endocrine cancer in August '14, me with brain cancer in September '14.

So yeah. Fuck cancer. And bring on the defensive medicine. Tort reform is a scam to get private citizens to give up their right to sue people (read: corporations) who destroy their lives. All the states that instituted tort reform now have higher costs of medical malpractice insurance than the states that didn't have any reform. 

This all started with the McDonalds hot coffee fiasco where the media cleverly over time has made the public believe that the United States is lawsuit happy when it clearly is not. If you actually go investigate the hot coffee scandal you will probably find that everything you thought you knew about it was an utter lie. Overall it's far more complex than that.  Defensive medicine, like medicine in general, is pretty complicated.

As an example situation, a 28 year old fella comes in and says he's had a cough for 5 days and now has chest pain.  Doesn't have a high blood pressure, doesn't have any medical problems that he knows of.  He's worried he's having a heart attack, because, hey, chest pain, and wants to get checked.

The doctor knows that the risk of this guy having a heart attack is very, very low.  But without tests (and even with tests, but that's another subject) there is no way to say that the risk is Zero.

At this point, I'm going to make up some illustrative numbers.  Let's say his risk of a heart attack is 1%.  That's pretty low, but if you tell this guy "Listen, I'm a doctor and this isn't a heart attack" you're probably right.  But do it 100 times and statistically someone just died, someone young, and someone who came in worried for a heart attack!  And you missed it.

Some might say that we could get an EKG to look at the heart, and if it's normal, well, Hell, we've dropped that risk from 1% to 0.1%.  It's not that expensive, and now we have to do it 1000 times before someone dies.  Mazel tov!  But still, is that enough?  How many young people with chest pain get seen every year?  That's still a lot of dead people maybe!

What if we add some blood tests and a chest xray?  Now we've got it at 0.01%.  Great success!  Minor tests, a bit of inconvenience and expense, and voila.  Now we have to see a lot more people before someone dies, and therefore everyone is happy!

Or are they?  We've saved a few lives, but at what cost?  Now we have 10,000 people getting blood tests, an EKG, a chest xray, when really we only expected a very rare case to get past us in the first place.  That's pretty expensive, but it's also saved the doc from a lot of guilt (I let someone die) and hassle (getting sued).  The patient feels they've gotten "the best care" because of the number of tests, and now the doc says they're super sure the fella doesn't have a heart attack.

So, at which point does it become defensive medicine?  How many tests, and what's the cut-off that should be used? I used to think that way. Then i decided to get myself a coffee grinder, quality beans and an aeropress. It is criminal to call the slurry a normal coffee machine puts out the same name.

Use honey instead of sugar. A little bit of red milk or coffee cream. Alternatively substitute the honey with a piece of chocolate. Those who wish to give up the right to sue already visit other countries and get their surgeries done cheaper right?

Also, the fact that you might get a few million dollars out of a surgery as a patient has to be a motivator for Americans to get surgery done as and when necessary and not postpone it I guess.. esp. since insurance pays everything there anyways Doctors are humans too but if they make a serious mistake that effects a life,  time to hire a lawyer. Good luck with everything that's going on. I wish you well. Diabetes causes nerve damage. They don't feel the pain from ischemia for the same reason they don't feel the pain from a foot injury.  &gt;A doctor is always on the same side as his patients.

While I am in general supportive of doctors this statement is complete BS.

&gt;By definition. A doctor who takes his job and oath seriously anyway.Their job is to listen to the wants and feelings of their patients and put their knowledge to use in providing precisely that which suits the patient's care needs the most. 

This is also true of all police, politicians, priests, and anyone at all in the service industry. And therefore by your logic all police, politicians, and priests only have your best interest at hand an never have any of their own interests that are in direct competition with your best interest. Again by your logic, the doctor that does actually make a mistake, will always own up to it, because they are only and always just concerned with the patient, and not their own career. Which again is simply just BS. 

The real issue usually boils down to what truly is in the best interest for the patient. This is true with all of those other fields listed above too. To think that most people (including patients and lawyers alike) are able to say they knew what truly was best for the patient (or citizen, or constituent, or member of your church) without a doubt (and not simply after the fact with perfect 20/20 hindsight) despite all of the doctors medical training and experience and circumstances the diagnosis required is absurd. 

No need for baseless hyperboles to make your point.  Hmm, I don't think so. If you've taken reasonable steps that's well above the level of negligence. Sending kids who are unvaccinated into schools... not do much. I'm obviously not a lawyer though, just an annoyed hot head. Exactly - it's fairly arbitrary. But there are other countries that manage to run less tests and get more or less the same results as the US, so perhaps we've drawn the line too far. 

Or not, I'm not saying I'm right for sure, just making an argument that perhaps physicians and epidemiologists should be deciding how many tests is enough, and such a high percentage shouldn't be instead saying they're deciding what tests to run based on the chances of getting sued. Short answer, yes.  Generally speaking, the US has a much higher rate of litigation for medical cases.  I'm not European nor educated enough to pretend, so I can't speak to the *specific* reasons why, but I've long been under the impression that it's at least partially due to socialized medicine. 'Good medicine' isn't doing every test on everyone. It is providing appropriate investigation and management for a given patient. Examples of defensive medicine:

1) Ordering a CT abdomen on every patient you ever see with abdominal pain. A CT abdomen causes cancer in around 1 in 500 people.

2) Implanting an internal defibrillator in every person with heart failure, even if it is very mild or from a reversible cause. These patients are at slightly higher risk of serious cardiac arrhythmia than the general population. However, a defib will cause significant mental disorders in the event of inappropriate shocks, there can be significant risk of death if it ever becomes infected and if you drive a HGV, you lose your job.

3) Diagnosing epilepsy and starting treatment in every person who has a remote chance of having had a fit. These people can now not drive for at least a year and maybe on unnecessary medication for several years.

These are obviously extreme examples, but hopefully highlight that more tests or procedures doesn't equate to better medicine. 
 i'm a family medicine practitioner and i practice defensive medicine as well. i may be single-handedly bankrupting medi-cal just to avoid a lawsuit I just had a look, it's annual CDC HIV cases (HIV is a monitored condition requiring notification) vs. new Craig list site launch, with info from Craig lists own site. They then used a scraping programme to collect individual ads (from archive.org) giving them 1,160,663 distinct personal ads over 24,147 state-days.

The then included potential confounders (e.g. race, age) from the SEER database. It appears they even accounted for changes in testing behaviour over time.

It seems like relatively good data. The sources are at least very strong/accurate on the HIV side, I can't speak for the CL side. 

Pretty standard health economics paper, with an interesting question. Have a buddy that was a "neuromonitor" during surgeries. He didn't have much training and the science and efficacy of the service was sketchy at best. If anything did come up post-op, like the person was numb on one half of their body, the surgeon could point to the neuromonitor's log to "show" it wasn't his fault. The owners of the neuromonitoring company made a buttload of cash by charging double for Medicare patients. Awesome right? Which no doubt hikes up the price of healthcare even further.  Eh not to nitpick just curious, but by mitigating risk wouldn't the long term be the same but with less variance? Why "should" the universe slow down expansion.  At the singularity there was something that over came gravity to cause inflation.  Stop thinking of the universe like a bomb and needing energy to keep it expanding.  The universe expanding has never been affected by gravity.  A 20% decrease in risk for an already rare form of skin cancer is not worth that much effort in making coffee taste somewhat better. Also, at 4 cups a day, I'm not too keen on the teeth staining, various digestive issues, increased risk of rheumatoid arthritis, heart attack, and osteoporosis, or the caffeine addiction that will come with this negligible "risk" decrease.  Tried four cups of coffee a day for a while because of work, and I ended up with headaches in my weekends because of it...  Thank you so much /u/xxglowxx it means alot. I cant wait to get my valve replaced so i can get out of bed and just work out again. I took a lot for granted when i was healthy. Really appreciate the well wishes.

Well i see downvotes: i use to be 11b in the army, and got chaptered because of my heart. It hurts to see people hate me based on a comment alone. I cant even get out of bed to defend my self or really defend my self on here either. My heart has just gotten weak from the arthimeyas ive suffered this past 2 years. I dont wanna sue the doctor that bad, im sorry hes also a pedatrician, and it would only hurt the children. We just looked into it, but never persued it. I appreciate the endless downvotes on every comment i make on reddit. Just reinforces im not made for this society or world.  But it has to be within reason. Friend of mine went to the doctor with what she thought was a pinched nerve. She called me crying, they told her she either had a blood clot in her heart or in her lung. After tests, the ER prescribed a muscle relaxant for her pinched nerve. Scarring experience when caution has you considering your own mortality.  Think thats how it works until tort reforms and a single payor system become the
model in USA If you don't appreciate the delicious taste and the stimulant effect then certainly you should not drink it. I was only saying it is a choice to drink bad tasting coffee. This is competely true and craigslist warns about this very thing. People can just post an anonymous ad on craigalist and either transmit the disease or spread it without anyone moderating it. Its especially prevalent in the gay ads, which almost always is the most populated. So gay men can contract it on craigslist and spread it without even knowing, as HIV could take months to detect. I never thought of it like that, actually. TIL.

The only other random STEMI fact I know is, depending on how early the STEMI is caught, Trop levels may not be outside of normal. Learned that from an ER Doc after the last STEMI Trop came back at .09 at 30 minutes after symptom onset, then 80 after about 6 hours. Oh, suck it the fuck up. You were in the army; surely you can handle a little criticism from an anonymous Internet forum. You know what! Oh shit i expressed my feelings on the internet and got told. Just rekted me man.... http://theunsilencedscience.blogspot.com/2014/07/parents-income-poorly-predicts-sat-score.html That is not a 'random' fact, but  core principle underlying investigation of ACS. One trop now, another in 6 -8 hours.  Probably because you'll spend all day in the bathroom instead of out in the sun. &gt; Additionally, parents may treat their identical twins more similarly than non-identical ones, which may affect their learning abilities. 

Shared environment goes to zero anyway.

&gt; Lastly, because identical twins are the always the same sex, this too can confound things by making gender-based similarities in how they learn and respond to environments vs. non-identical twins.

Pretty sure they control for that. And due to X-inactiviation in females and differential gene expression even in identical twins, even that figure is low. thanks, can i also ask what to do in a situation where i have nothing to focus on? one time thats particularily bad for me is when i'm trying to sleep. i end up with thoughts of an abusive relationship that makes me extremely angry and upset and i very often cannot sleep easily when i'm thinking like that, it screws my sleep schedule up very badly That's largely because the current paradigm (private insurance) doesn't allow doctors to apologize for making a mistake or just the unavoidable loss of a patient. Doing so exposes the doctor the to litigation and can be considered an admission of guilt.  If they were truly "unnecessary" then there would be nothing to sue over. There is nothing wrong with defensive medicine, it just means the physician is careful to make sure the patient gets the best care they can get In every other Western country those extra tests to be sure a patient has a certain diagnosis and gets the right treatment are not covered because that's what happens when the government runs the healthcare system As a Brit, this describes my life as a teenager. Yay for living in the middle of nowhere. Right. I was just saying it was a random thing a physician started talking to me about when I was helping him care for a STEMI. He brought it up like, "Oh, by the way, did you know that the initial I-Stat may not show high Trop levels?"

It was extremely cool to learn and it kind of explains why EMS may never get i-Stats since it would almost be inconclusive...that and the machines need to stay completely still while the test is running.  &gt; And bring on the defensive medicine

The problem is that it isn't that simple. Tests aren't 100% accurate. They all have a sensitivity and specificity that less than 100%. By changing the thresholds for "this person has disease," you are going to include people that dont have disease as well as people that do. You are going to cause these people to have stress, anxiety, and further testing ordered that they don't need. When you decrease the size of your filter, you're going to catch more cases that should be caught, but also more cases that should have passed through. Additionally, not all tests are benign  - some involve exposure to harmful substances. Sure, doing an ultrasound or measuring someones FEV1 shouldn't have any reasonable expectation of harm, but that isn't the case for everything (and there are always exceptions...). Every X-ray/CT involves exposing the patient to radiation. En masse, this is going to have a undesirable effect on cancer rates, even if you can't attribute an individual person's cancer directly to their radiation exposure. Nonetheless, there are still *some* people out there who have gotten cancer due to tests that they wouldn't have had otherwise. For the population at large, its easy to say something like, "oh, well, only increase testing to the point that the increased risk is equal to the increased benefit." But medicine is a human endeavour - you can't view people as being tested in a vacuum. By ramping up testing, we introduce negative effects and potentially ruin the lives of people who would have otherwise lived happily and peacefully. And there are still people with disease who will be missed. Nonetheless, that is the right answer. But that won't make anyone *feel* any better. What can you say to a person who has a cancer that wasn't diagnosed? "Oh, we didnt test you because you fell outside the 95% confidence interval for being likely to have cancer?" From a human standpoint, thats ridiculous, but from a scientific stanpoint, thats how decisions are made, and need to be. Your story is absolutely heartbreaking, and the limits of medicine are something that I feel bound by every day. But I cannot ignore the fact that nothing in medicine is black or white; instead, everything involves varying degrees of risk. It doesn't matter what outcome ends up being decided on as the consensus, there will always be people who are passed over. That isn't to say that we shouldn't stop trying to improve - instead, both physicians and patients need to recognize that what we can do as humans has limits. I know it sounds like I'm rambling here, but its because I'm dancing around the fact that medicine isn't all powerful, and sometimes, we have to accept the fact that we as humans are going to have to suffer terrible things because of bad luck. How do you tell someone that? I still haven't figured out... How much peer reviewed data is there to support that this is quancomp to begin with? If the physician does not think a patient could possibly need a certain test, then they will not order it. Figuring out what is wrong with the patient and protecting you ass from a malpractice lawsuit go hand in hand. All "defensive medicine" means is giving the patient the best care they could possibly get.

As for costing the doctor nothing, that is not even remotely the case cause most physicians in the US work under managed care health systems where the physician gets a cut of whatever they don't end up spending. So how this system works is that it is in their best interest financially to do as few tests as possible, but compound that with malpractice lawsuits and you have a system that keeps them providing care that is both necessary and cost effective. "'My speculation is that those women who did not see the benefit probably stopped or reduced their activity . . . it may be those are the women who need a more vigorous exercise to benefit,' Trivedi said"

So let's just admit that the article is misleading. It could easily be that non-depressed people tend to get out and walk more. In other words, back to "correlation is not causation." "Aren't very straightforward" is an understatement.

Patients rarely answer all of a doctor's questions honestly, usually for subconscious reasons.  People fear being told they have cancer, for instance, so may deny cardinal symptoms even when directly asked.  I have personally known of several cases in which patients presented with vague symptoms such as tiredness, weight loss, and headaches; but hid, failed to mention, or even outright denied having, fungating tumours on their bodies.  One woman, for instance, who always declined to take off her hat in the doctor's office, turned out to have something that looked margarita pizza growing all over the back of her head.  Another was asked if her infected armpit lump had been there for more than a month and lied that it was a recent development.  Both died, but the family of the latter sued the doctor to whom she had lied, for misdiagnosing her breast cancer.

Just last week, it took me three minutes to get a woman on the phone to admit, reluctantly, that her husband wasn't just having a rest on the sofa, he was deeply unconscious and unresponsive.  She had called her GP for an opinion instead of dialling 999!

These are extreme examples but minor errors of omission or embarrassed/frightened denials of important symptoms ("No, I've never suffered from penile discharge/incontinence/bad breath/central crushing chest pain") are a daily occurrence. Think I'll just not drink coffee and stay inside, thanks. At the risk of sounding like an ass:

You should cite one or more studies on what defensive medicine is *if you want to properly counter anecdotes*. A surgeon shouldn't really have to be thinking "what do i need to have to ensure I have a strong case in the even I get sued"  You could say so. Its dark to electromagnetic waves but normally "visible in"  gravitational influence. Just a different "spectrum" of imaging in the end.

And interestingly, its not even necessarily in the same place as regular matter (ie mass we can also see in the em waves) - so it can't just be a tweak of the equations.

center of total mass vs center of "normal" (baryonic) mass in the bullet cluster - http://apod.nasa.gov/apod/image/0608/bulletcluster_comp_f2048.jpg

Though in some models this can just be some type of dark matter we know of, like neutrinos, plus some margin of error, plus fairly convoluted equation etc... By your logic a truck driver who drives tired and causes an accident should not be sued.... 

Malpractice lawsuits are not punitive. They are simply designed to compensate patients for doctors' mistakes. And anyone can make a mistake even if they're doing the best they can...  Because the definition of defensive medicine is ordering unnecessary tests. Unnecessary. Because tests have risks, like anything, such as radiation from CT scans which increase the risk of cancer. 

  Yea. This is an interview with a D-Wave executive, not an impartial source.

That being said, Google and NASA have been pretty optimistic with what D-Wave is doing. Google Earth [Neurosurg has the highest number of malpractice claims of any specialty](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3204310/) [and in Chicago they pay 4500 per week or around 230,000 per year.](http://overlawyered.com/2011/07/chicago-neurosurgeons-pay-4500wk-in-med-mal-premiums/) Hardly 5% or less.

Regardless of who pays the insurance (I'm a med student so I'm not 100% on how many hospitals pay for malpractice insurance/how many neurosurgeons there are in private practice) I highly doubt an increase in malpractice insurance wouldn't find it's way into the surgeons salary.

Also, I'm pretty sure the incident you were talking about happened a few years ago (it just get reposted on reddit) and he lost his license/ended up in prison fairly quickly once he was reported. And that was more an issue with the hospital being unwilling to report him because he was considered an investment.  I get the feeling that this is a bigger problem in the US (compared to Australia where I am from), I wonder if that is in any way related to the huge number of responses here stating that this is a good thing. 

Are patients' expectations and demands, which are often misinformed, influencing the doctors' decisions? A jury of your "peers" - something should terrify any professional in any field. Interesting. Never heard of that.  Not because people who have limited exposure to sunlight have messed up body clocks and drink more coffee to compensate?
 That's terrible. Do you think it's just genetics/coincidence or that maybe there's an environmental factor that contributed to you guys getting various forms of cancer? The thing is caffeine is an addictive drug and you have to treat it as such. Your problem was likely that you went from 4 cups mon-fri to zero on sat-sun. Craigslist is like the original Grindr, it's mainly used by gay men for casual sex so inevitably it will contribute to the spread of HIV. I suspect Grindr knows it is probably increasing the spread of the disease because it gives an option to include your HIV status on your profile and sends users messages reminding them to get tested. [source](http://www.hivequal.org/hiv-equal-online/grindr-gets-a-conscience) Status options include "positive, undetectable, HIV-neutral or **Poz-friendly**." Look at it from the patient's point of view. I just found out I'm paralyzed from the waist down. Why shouldn't I try to get some amount of money that will make my life a little easier, especially knowing that doctors have insurance for this very purpose? You don't have to be a lawyer to know this is the smart thing to do. This data could be applied to condom distribution programs and education/counseling. Maybe Craigslist could run adverts about specific programs to offset the effects of their expansion. 

Edit: condom.  As ever, relevant [xkcd](http://xkcd.com/radiation/). One or two CT scans is going to do very little to increase your cancer risk, if anything at all.

I agree with your sentiment, however. There are two compelling reasons that we should continue to practice defensive medicine in the majority of cases - PET scans aside.

1) Screening tests are useful and protect at risk communities. - e.g. HIV. I used to live in Vauxhall, London, and the GP clinic offered every single person a routine HIV check for no other reason than it is a gay friendly neighbourhood. I'm sure some people tested false positive. However - these tests are cheap and quick (hence screening), so you can easily do the test again - and the chance of a false positive is virtually eliminated. See: smear tests.

2) Rarer conditions with more invasive tests. e.g. brain cancer. These conditions are rare - it is prudent to practice defensive medicine in the majority of cases, so you can better understand how to treat specific subtypes of what was once considered just one condition. For a 27 year old male who has 2 tonic clonic seizures 2 days apart - should they just prescribe epilepsy drugs and be done with it? 95%+ of the time, they would be right. 

By exposing 100 people to a head CT scan at 2 milli Seiverts a piece, they find 5 people that already had a brain tumour, which they wouldn't have found otherwise. These 5 people become cases for which they've found a tumour earlier than they would have otherwise, and allows *research* to take place on A) causes B) development C) prognosis D) treatment etc. 

Had they waited until the patient had migraines and speech difficulties, they crack the CT scan out, and there's a tumour the size of a fist which is inoperable. 

Without catching things early, you cannot research them effectively.

So, actually, *scientifically* it makes little sense to not practice defensive medicine. 

*Economically*, however... that's another question.

 or c) Happy So are these cups of American coffee, or something real like an expresso or a latte?  Well, my dad is a pilot, so there's an element of radiation exposure from all of his flying.

My mum and I smoked for 3 years or so on and off in our lifetimes, but there's little correlation between smoking and brain / breast cancer so far as I can tell. It certainly doesn't help. 

Given that my parents are obviously not related - it's not likely genetic, either.

We didn't live atop a granite intrusion and hang out in the basement all day, that's for sure. Bad luck, I guess? I think the court system would work a lot better in this case if "peers" was taken to mean academic peers, as in peer-review. *Yeah, poor people, someone could have been living with HIV and not being able to know it.*

Or maybe people could use condoms. **ESPECIALLY** when replying to an anonymous ad on CG. Yes, we all know the difference. Nobody likes condoms. But going bare is reserved for your SO whom you can trust, and not some random person who might pozzing knowingly just for the giggles, be it a hetero or homosexual constellation (there are reported cases of women who knowingly had unprotected sex when being HIV+). And yeah, if you know your body, you'll usually know when it hits you.  Cool. Was someone going to become critically ill if the truck driver didn't make his delivery? This man is on to something. Epidemiological studies are there to provide evidence of an association between two variables, in this case risk of melanoma diagnosis and coffee intake.

When reporting on these potential associations we should be damn sure of the quality of them. Normally we do this by adjusting for other variables that could affect our outcome. To give an artificial example of why this is important I may do a study looking at rates of cancer in a group and find those with hip replacements are more likely to have certain types of cancer. Does this mean hip replacements cause cancer, almost certainly not. Are they even associated with cancer, possibly but again unlikely. Hip replacements are more likely to occur in older people, cancer is also more common in older people. When we control for age as factor it's very likely the association we saw would disappear.

Applying that logic to this study; melanoma already has a very good, clear risk factor associated to it, UV exposure. The authors do try to control for UV exposure in their study. In their methods the authors seem to suggest they measured the UV exposure at each place where people lived in July each year and averaged it for a 15 year block (1978-1993) and a 9 year block (1996-2005). Now then you can decide whether this is a good enough measure of individuals UV exposure for the previous 10.5 years in the follow up period. Personally, I don't find that convincing at all. Especially when it is not inconceivable that increased coffee intake may be associated with reduced UV exposure, given that high coffee consumption maybe associated with office jobs that reduce UV exposure through lack of being outside as much in daylight hours. 

Another issue this study highlights is whats called data mining. If I have a large data set say looking at food intake and 20 outcomes measured. At a 95% confidence interval level one of those 20 outcomes is likely to be 'significantly' associated purely by chance. Similarly if I my same large data set but one outcome, but stratify my data set into 20 different ways, one of the stratifications is likely to be correlated with the outcome by pure chance. 
A quick literature search of the last author shows they've published papers using this data set before, another search for the study itself suggests over 150 papers have been published looking for associations within this data set, some of which linking coffee to other cancer types have been negative (http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23681472).

All of these methodological difficulties may suggest the association we have observed is not actually true. Before urging everyone to grab another cup, we could see if the association holds up in other data sets. Alternatively using better measurements of UV exposure would reduce the risk of confounding, I'd imagine someone's probably developed a sensor people could have attached to belts to measure personal UV exposure during follow up. The ideal study would be to randomise a group of people to coffee or no coffee for say 10 years and see if melanoma rates change then. The randomisation would produced a balanced cohort of all of the confounding factors (including UV) and then we could assess causality of coffee intake on melanoma. 

Anyway if there's any more questions, just ask, otherwise I'm off for a cup of coffee.  Lawyer here - this is not true in the context of medical malpractice lawsuits. The doctor who is being sued decides whether to settle or go to court. Hells to the yes. Did my achilles tendon last year. Had an allergic reaction to blood thinners I was prescribed so I stopped taking them. Went in for a regular checkup and the doc found some very mild calf pain in the same leg. As a precaution he recommended an ultrasound at which they found a 10cm clot in the perineal vein in my calf. I never thought the pain was anything more than just from the achilles.  So which states are these "high risk states"? I see them referred to continually in the article, and apparently the surveyed surgeons are aware - why not share that data with the readers? Pours in more $$$ too. i do a big cup of black coffee in the morning to uh.. get things moving.  If I had 3 more cups a day I'd be living in the bathroom. Exactly, and i'm lead to believe that any addiction (except those of food, water and air), is bad for you?

It was a somewhat scary experience, that my body was craving something, that was not vital for my survival, or it would give me a headache. But we also know that there are about 7 cases of people who for genetic reasons or other treatments they took (stem cell transplant) have been free from any detectable HIV load in their blood for a long time. Scientists are also trying to figure out how it worked in these people such that they could replicate the circumstances. Why does the article about neurosurgery have an image of what appears to be a dental hygienist? The neurologists I've seen since TBI insist that all problems they can't isolate must be psychological. To be diagnosed, I had to see a friend of a friend three countries away as a favour to someone else. 

The two I saw here decided that if I didn't present with violent shaking and the non-sleep deprived eeg was normal, there was no way there were any seizures going on. How many times have you contracted HIV and how long did it take you to notice each time? [Here is the relevant graph for the markers.](http://path.upmc.edu/cases/case178/images/micro.JPG) Myoglobin isn't specific enough though, it's in skeletal muscle too. It isn't especially sensitive either. CK-MB is useful because it drops faster than troponin, so it lets use see a reinfarction. Troponin can still be elevated two weeks after the MI. Another pretty interesting thing is that troponin can be elevated in a patient with renal insufficiency. We excrete it via the kidney, so it can accumulate and cause false positives in these patients.  ...How many times he crossed the mountain. It's hard to make predictions, especially 85 years into the future. Apparently, no doctors have ever been involved in any selfish activity ever.

No doctor ever tried to push a drug whose company was giving them kick backs. No doctors has ever made an honest mistake and then tried to not so honestly cover it up. No doctor has ever made a poor judgment call in their own lives that would ever effect how their work performance. 

Doctors are people, the can be good, they can be bad, they can make mistakes. It never strengthens your argument to make a statement that can be so easily proved false. 

For example, by your statement this former doctor was only looking out for his patients and made no selfish decisions which have had zero lasting effects on society: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Andrew_Wakefield

 I saw pictures of her burns and I absolutely support her getting the [5-600 thousand bucks or so she received for her final settlement with McDonalds](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Liebeck_v._McDonald%27s_Restaurants#Trial_and_verdict).

$600k doesn't seem so outrageous for a crippling injury. This is a surprise to whom, exactly? You can get HIV through a condom. &gt; By your logic a truck driver who drives tired and causes an accident should not be sued....

Not even close. A lot of surgeries take over 6 hours (some take over 12 hours). The surgeon can preform perfectly correctly and then be stricken by sleep deprivation in the same surgery.

&gt;Malpractice lawsuits are not punitive.

They may not be meant to be, but they are. Every time you screw up, your malpractice insurance premiums go up (which makes sense, I'm studying to be an actuary, after every payout I'd jack a customer's rates up as well).

&gt;They are simply designed to compensate patients for doctors' mistakes. And anyone can make a mistake even if they're doing the best they can...

This ignores good faith, which is an important factor in the legal system. The doctor is directly penalized (premiums go up, which means take home goes down) for every mistake that a patient sues over.

Then again, I'm not arguing with you. I'm arguing that a mistake made in good faith does not constitute malpractice. Malpractice is when something explicitly wrong happens, not a mistake (surgeon shows up drunk and preforms surgery anyways, wrong type of anesthesia is intentionally used, things like that). &gt; The alternative to the current model would be that many doctors still practice carefully, but a few would practice recklessly

If that were the alternative, explain how we have a well functioning health system in Europe, where you rarely see malpractice lawsuits.  It's not smart, it's breaking the social contract. Just because something bad happened to you doesn't mean you have the right to do something bad to someone else on the off-chance that it improves your lot. Psychologically, not having time to just relax and do something I want to do, is difficukt Excellent.  Finally doctors are moving in the right direction.  1/3 of hospital deaths are medical mistakes This is an easy, common-sense claim to make. But what we have evidence of here is that litigiousness makes ordinary doctors practice over-carefully, and we don't know what it does to the reckless ones. A truly reckless doctor can be seen in their statistics, rather than by the individual patient to whom something bad happens. It may also be that the reckless doctors don't care much about the risk of litigation - they are reckless after all - and just carry on regardless. That's extremely unlikely. [A condom is good protection against HIV](https://www.aids.gov/hiv-aids-basics/prevention/reduce-your-risk/using-condoms/) &gt;Not all doctors order extra tests just to protect themselves from law suits.

No, just the 80% reported in the article. What's your point? Because 20% of doctors don't order unnecessary tests, the system is working fine?! And that's why we're slowly moving into robotics. Watson already does diagnosis better than human doctors, and there are already a few surgeons using robotic tools for surgeries, that remove twitches.  Murika.. thats why... When it comes to doing the right thing, you can count on them to not do it... like proper healthcare, tort reform, banking reforms... the list goes on Why does LDH have such a different profile?  I'm embarrassed how much I argued with my health teacher (who was also employed as a nurse) about the defibrillator thing.  You would, but that's why it's a bad idea to let patients set medical guidelines. Treating the 99% of cases is objectively better than testing everyone expensively (in the US, that will be expensive directly to the patient!) tying up time and resources that should be used on people who have a greater than 1% chance of being ill. You might possibly obtain a false positive, too, in which case that precaution is going to *make you sick* by giving you unnecessary stress and treatment. Heavy Goods Vehicle By real do you mean weaker? Because if caffeine is what's responsible for the prevention, you'd be better off drinking a cup of filter coffee than an espresso.  No, because ordering a test for an illness that the patient has a &lt;1% chance of having is not good practice. Tests are expensive in money and time which could be used elsewhere. They might have their own side-effects, and they always have a rate of false positives. If you end up being told you have some awful rare disease, that will cause you stress and real illness when you are treated for something you don't have.

This calculus is, by the way, much more obvious in a public healthcare system. There it's clear that the system everyone pays for through taxes should not be wasting money trying to cover every possible eventuality.

Remember you can always take this logic to the extreme: you might have some rare disease which progress asymptomatically until suddenly you fall ill and die within a week. Only 1/10000 people have it though - should we test the whole population? Obviously not, even if the test were perfect - it's a waste of money and there are better things to spend money on. This is the case even in the case of lawsuits, but they just shift the balance of risk and make people take more precautions than they should have to. I think they need to correct for a few factors like occupation.

I suspect occupation would be a common causal factor influencing both coffee consumption and UV exposure; UV exposure is a known causal factor affecting melanoma occurrence.

Examples of plausible causal linkages:

  * Some occupations require people to work outside for some or all of the day, which increases their sun (and hence UV) exposure.
  * Some occupations pay higher wages / salary than others. Coffee (especially from cafes and the like) can be expensive, and so the cost is likely to result in lower coffee intake for workers in occupations with lower pay. While there are relatively well paying outdoor jobs, they are (by number of workers) likely a smaller proportion of all outdoor jobs than well-paying indoor jobs are of all indoor jobs.
  * Workers in many indoor jobs in offices often have access to indoor coffee making facilities (coffee machines, hot water urns, and so on) and so are likely to have the ability to access coffee more conveniently and at lower cost than many outdoor workers.

I think that it would definitely be wrong to conclude that there is a causal link between coffee intake and melanoma from this study - to do that reliably, the best way would probably be to run an experiment where different randomly selected groups are assigned to different intakes. Even then, there would be the risk of a placebo effect - although I'm not sure how to easily get around that (although if instant coffee powder is thought to be effective, perhaps it could be encapsulated and participants would either swallow encapsulated coffee powder or an identical looking placebo). Which is what the patients deserve and what they should get, when they're entitled assholes with unrealistic demands.

I don't understand why these surgeries do not come with something akin to a 'force majeur' clause - i.e. despite the best intentions and ability of our doctors, certain outcomes may be unavoidable due to the nature of the surgery.

Obviously the solution shouldn't be to ask patients to sign a paper stating that they can't sue regardless of the outcome, because THAT might just breed laxness. But the excessive amount of malpractice suits is insane, too.
In this situation, I'd rather the surgeons just deny service - but that has professional repercussions, too. They should be. Anytime you're messing with someone's brain you're messing with his or her entire existence. When failures occur, the victims deserve every penny. It's your brain, it's what makes you, you. If your state of consciousness is altered permanently, you deserve every goddamn penny. Regular [inset any kind of exercise that increases fitness] is positively linked with reduction of depression scores. Source: many many articles on Internet for many many years now.  Global warming since 1982 (till at least 2000ish) was extremely rapid. Why have this not affected turtle populations (negatively) and why is it expected that future warming would ? Similarly, when one is suspected of a concussion, many times an head ct scan is performed out of fear of malpractice. the problem with reality is that you can flee it for very long, but not forever.

I know that this is a question of month before more governments and influential corps (beyond Norway, Sweden, Airbus) make their outing.

You should know who was there and who was excused at this conference

http://www.lenr-forum.com/forum/news/index.php/News/49-LENR-Cities-Oxford-conference-Airbus-Chief-Scientist-was-there-Is-it-the-D-Day/

who was excused, who don't want to be named, is more important than Airbus Chief Scientist talking.
I cannot help you more, and I just hope you can relay insider facts. I cannot.

about meme, in fact the meme behind the title is based on a fallacy : that 2 influential labs failing after 40 days mean something valuable.

This article explain the beginning of anti-cold fusion meme.

http://www.currentscience.ac.in/php/forthcoming/CS-1.pdf

This groupthink have difficulties to die in media and academic circles (some prepares their exit), but it is already dead among informed industrialists and governments. This is not a speculation, but you are allowed not to trust my sources. Anyway the public facts are clear enough for honest watchers.

this is faster than I imagined in December. But maybe it brings some new risks? I believe it.

Personal anecdote: I was really stressed for months on end. So badly my eye and left side of my face would twitch constantly. Went to my GP, who after some piddling sent me to a Neurologist. She said it was probably stress, but  wanted to do a brain MRI just in case. And of course they found something on part of my brain stem and cerebellum. Small but definitely a lesion or growth. So then Iended up getting a spinal MRI and  spinal tap to check for MS since it seemed the most likely. Nothing. No other signs. It became wait and see, with a brain MRI every four months. No growth or change for over a year. In the meantime I'm put on a medication that stops the twitching. Finally after a year it grew, and it's behavior put it in the benign brain tumor category. I changed neurologists soon after that due to her crappy office personnell and her not doing anything about them. 

When I told my second neurologist about all the tests and how the tumor was originally found he practically gaped at me. He said that the facial nerves that had been twitching are all associated with high stress. It was completely unrelated to the tumor and its location. It was pure luck/misfortune that the MRI actually showed anything. I actually came off the medication soon after and the twitching didn't come back. 

So now I have to get MRIs every two years to watch it. Can't ignore it since it's shown growth twice in five years, but they don't want to treat it yet since there are high risks due to its location.

 It may end up not affecting me my entire life or it may start pressing on certain parts of my brain and I start having serious symptoms. Either way, it was a complete accident and just my original neurologist either being lazy, covering her ass or just trying to help their practice by charging for an unnecessary MRI (they had a machine in house so I did all my scans there until I changed doctors). I guess I'm grateful, but it still sucks to always have that little worry in the background. 

tl;dr - stressed out twitchy face "helps" find a lazy brain tumor. Doesn't this subreddit have rules about sensationalized titles? It's not like you just "know" - it's not like your "HIV-sense" goes off. It's initial symptoms mirror the common cold. No offense, I agree that everyone should use condoms all the time, but you're posting some weirdly bad information here. And while yes, condoms aren't *always* effective, they're pretty damn super effective, especially if the infected person is medicating.  To be fair, their number is increasing every year... That's strange, considering all the female ads, and any females that contact you in response to your ad, are computer systems. This study looks at neurosurgeons specifically; not all doctors.

Also, it was a questionnaire, one of the most worthless forms of scientific studying there is. There is no study of any actual data, just statements by people that can be completely true or completely false. Insurance premiums went up. Tests can lead to patient harm. Not to mention bankrupt the system. Rural hospitals are closing in America in part because of this, and that is certainly harmful to patients. Gee, i wonder why scientists might have a distain for the followers of anti-scientific religions. its not like the followers of those religions have harrassed and persecuted scientists for hundreds of years, going as far as to burn people alive for disagreeing with the church or anything. If I did, I apologize. This is my first post in this subreddit. I used the CNN title as my title except I left out the subjective word "incredible." They may not pray something goes wrong, but there are many who will quickly capitalize on it when it does.

Anecdotal, but I work as a loss prevention analyst for a rather large company and have seen people sue for paper cuts, bruised toes, etc, refuse to settle in arbitration and the judge allow it to trial. Im glad they perform this "defensive " strategy. It Should help reduce deaths  I'd rather they be Damn sure I'm ok the saying *probably* if they are suspicious of something or want to just be sure. Let them They didn't switch you to a different anticoagulant when you had to discontinue the first one? Not all of course, because then you get problems like "Which doctor would ruin an other doctor?"

Bur forcing at least one person in the jury that knows what the problems are is a pretty good idea.  &gt; When you're a doctor you cannot think "it won't happen to me", you have to think "what if it happens to me".

Minimize consequences, in essence. For some context, studies say that malpractice [kills 200,000 people each year](http://www.propublica.org/article/how-many-die-from-medical-mistakes-in-us-hospitals) in the US alone.

In 2009, [10,772 payments were made](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3077940/) for malpractice claims.

So... medical mistakes kill almost twenty times as many people as there are payments (which is a larger number than the number of lawsuits.) Of all the people you mentioned (police, politicans, priests and anyone in the service industry) doctors are the only group that take an oath that says _to only act in the best interest of their patient, and to never do harm_. It's nothing like "serve and protect", it's an oath you take to not, _ever_, harm your patient, and only act in the best interest of your patient. Most doctors take it very seriously too. 

The problem you are talking about is (the vast majority of the time) not a conflict of interest, but a problem that doctors are not all-knowing. Doctors make mistakes all the time, but they can't own up to honest mistakes they make while acting in what to their best of knowledge is the best interest of the patient. Only if we're talking about real negligence, and this is only a very limited subgroups of doctors, we could talk about "owning up". Otherwise, we're talking about people that really want to do everything they can to help, but are, alas, not almighty. 

In general, doctors have a pretty good idea what is (medically) the best for their patient (given that the patient tells the whole story, which is oftentimes not the case). The view that doctors just look for a diagnosis is fundamentally wrong, because the prime objective of every doctor (and this is thought in medical school, yes) is to not diagnose disorders, but to _help_ their patients. 

Again, the doctor's job description is literally to act in the best interest of his patient. Saying that doctors are "not on the same side" as the patient is absurd, as the doctor-patient relationship is fundamentally a relationship where one party (the doctor) _cares_ for the other. Because it's relevant? According to actual statistics, malpractice claims are relatively rare, while deaths caused by medical malpractice are significantly more common. Yeah when I heard the real story I was really surprised.  Part that did it for me was that they were making its so hot so people couldn't get a free refill in the amount time they were normally at the restaurant what are you talking about it? the whole intact movement started from circumcised men who had botched circumcisions and parents who later regretted to cut their sons. Almost 10% of cut boys will have a complication like meatal stenosis, skin bridges and penile adhesions. 

Also why would cut men be angry? they have more sensitivity in their penis, enjoy more sexual pleasure and they can always cut their foreskin, circumcised men can not undo what was done to them. If you dont have any problem with the fact that someone cut a piece of your genitals without your consent why do you insult uncut men and act so defensive.  At least your MRIs didn't contain radiation. My opinion (hospital medicine internist) is that the ungodly number of CTs we do (which are ionizing radiation often with kidney toxic contrast dye) have real lifelong consequences. We do these tests for many reasons. Sometimes the practitioner has been poorly (or not trained at all) on bayesian logic and does a test that is not going to affect decision making in the way they think. That's exactly the answer I was looking for. I'm not very culturized at this but I had the feeling the physics I had been taught would change. Thanks. Different attitudes. Even in insurance based European systems (not just socialised ones), people don't generally consider themselves consumers - or for that matter Healthcare a commodity which they're purchasing. Even when there's some fee for a consultation, there is no expectation beyond "the physician will give me the benefit of his expertise."

Conversely, it appears to be more common in the US to believe that you aren't actually paying the physician for their time and training, you're paying *to be made better.* That expectation is completely unreasonably given the state of medical science.

With the caveat the actual malpractice is treated similarly on both sides of the Atlantic, there is a clear difference in attitudes towards situations where - despite the best care available - people worsen or die anyway. In the US, in that situation there are a regrettable number of people (though by no means everyone, let's make that clear) who insist that *someone is to blame.* You do realize that in *most of the states* where these doctors practice, there is still "defensive medicine" right?

Even in states like Texas, that have strict limits on actual liability and make it quite difficult to sue, unnecessary tests are ordered all the time. no offense man, but you sound pathetic. The fact you needed to use silly anecdotes like "uncut men are made fun in locker rooms" not only shows immaturity but also shows a defensive response to this subject. Maybe cutting babies genitals are not harmless like you say it. 

The only one in this thread who posted silly insults and stupid rhetoric was you, the circumcised guy, maybe you are the one who nerve got touched it.  True story. My dad was cutting a tree down with a chainsaw several decades ago, and a branch broke out of the tree and stabbed in his arm. He went to the Emergency Room and they sewed up his arm -- *without cleaning it out first.*

Three days later, his arm had swollen to 3 times its normal size, so back to the hospital he went. They told him if he had waited another day, he would have lost the arm. 

He didn't sue them. Stimulants actually are used off-label, usually for treatment-resistant depression. It's just that the SSRIs and SNRIs (and in some cases the old tricyclics) are found to be more effective, so they're frontline treatments. That's how peer review worked when it was first applied:

&gt; Perhaps the first documented description of a peer-review process is in a
book called Ethics of the Physician by Ishap bin Ali Al Rahwi (854-931) of
Al Raha, Syria. This work, and its later variants or manuals, states that it is
the duty of a visiting physician to make duplicate notes of the condition of
the patient on each visit. When the patient had been cured or had died, the
notes of the physician were examined by a local council of physicians, who
would adjudicate as to whether the physician had performed according to
the standards that then prevailed. On the basis of their rulings, the practicing
physician could be sued for damages by a maltreated patient.
&gt;
&gt; Spier (2002), The history of the peer-review process, Trends in Biotechnology, Vol. 20, Issue 8 does that makes you feel better? make stupid insults to uncut men and retelling stupid anecdotes about how terrible must be to have a foreskin makes you feel better? maybe this is your defense mechanism to assure to yourself that no harm was caused by circumcision. That's kind of what some people are suggesting in the sense of banning full contact for under 18s. Of course a lot of people then claim that that is part of the "pussification of America" and dismiss it out of hand. Again, I'm not saying that doctors are infallible. They are very much fallible. But the interests of a doctor are, by definition, aligned with the interests of the patient. Doctors who make honest mistakes are in the clear anyway, because whatever they did, it was what they thought was best for the patient, and even though people think doctors should fix everything, they can make mistakes. 

Then there's the rare doctor who's really a crook, and makes selfish decisions to get ahead. However, again, a (good?) doctor aligns his interests with his patient's everytime. It's what being a doctor is about. There are bad and selfish doctors out there, and the law system is adjusted to make it possible to prosecute them, but it is fundamentally wrong to suggest that the doctor's interests are opposed to the patient's. Yes. He believed their analysis wasn't ideal, not that the conclusion was incorrect. That is how science works. It is certainly fodder for people grasping at straws to validate their preconceived notions, but it is in no way evidence that supports their bogus claims. Staying in your room 24/24 with closed window shutters is associated with a 0% risk of melanoma but that doesn't mean you should do it ... Mitigate means to reduce. We mitigate the risk of infection with sterile procedures, which in the long term means fewer infections.

Let's say you have the choice of going to trial, where there is a 60% chance you will have to pay an award of $600,000 plus both sides' court costs, and a 40% chance you get a favorable verdict and the plaintiff covers your court costs. Negotiating a settlement for $75,000 or $150,000 would mitigate the risk of the higher payout, and making this choice many times would yield substantial savings. Actuary here - this is exact. Most cases in liability insurance are fully decided by the insurance company but because so much of the doctors reputation is at stake, malpractice insurance is different. personally i think its an intentional effort to suppress technologies like LENR.

imagine how big an advantage a military would have if they had LENR and their opponents didnt. 

and then imagine some scientist trying to give that technology to the world, erasing your advantage... if you were a military commander you'd do whatever it takes to stop him, even if it means launching a massive disinformation campaign and bribing other scientists to accuse him of fraud.

aggressively suppressing technologies like LENR is a brilliant strategy to retain a technological advantage over your enemies... the only problem with it is its an evil strategy, it delays humanity's transition to clean energy, and it harms people who are trying to make things better for humanity. Seriously the media could say whatever the fuck they wanted but if they had included a picture of the burns everyone would have been on the old lady's side. Thank you for the advice, my main hobby is PC gaming but I often just find myself sitting at my PC doing almost nothing, there's no drive to start a game and less to finish one, I have a game I'm 1 level from finishing and I can't seem to bring myself to do it. Before my diagnosis I was also about to start learning Java programming and hopefully use it to go into a home businesses, however I've been advised not to work on anything and that I would learn better when I am well, it doesn't feel like I can wait any longer to do that though. Sorry, you're not my therapist but its nice to write this all out anyway. coffee is good, coffee is bad. every other day it's one or the other. the side I've chosen is I drink 12-16oz of black coffee a day.  Coffee has more than one effect. There you go. Nurosurgery is one of the hardest in which to get a good outcome. so the reality is that's what they must do, or it would disappear as a specialty.  are you trying to argue that your point is a good reason why america should stick to its healthcare model? I don't see any numbers on the site you linked. According to CDC the risk of exposure to HIV is [reduced only by 80% with a condom](http://www.cdc.gov/hiv/policies/law/risk.html).  Any site that helps connect people for any type of sexual activity will increase the spread of HIV. More sex = more HIV. I hope no one is surprised by this. You are so right about American expectations. People expect a lifelong problem to be fixed during one 15 minute visit. Thank you for your work. I don't know why anyone would reasonably object to "I'm going to run some extra tests just to make sure you're okay since we just cut you open and moved stuff around."  Don't hate the player, hate the game. congrats, Im guna dwnvote u now b.c of repost Truth be told, regular walking does not have as positive a result as irregular walking does for easing my depression.  Well people tend to worry about litigation where it's common to use the justice system to make a quick buck. Maybe we should do something about that? &gt;The right to sue is important. The alternative to the current model would be that many doctors still practice carefully, but a few would practice recklessly.

No, the alternative is an enforcement mechanism based on facts rather than emotions. The reality is that the US court system is not based on facts - it is based on the ability of lawyers to emotionally manipulate a jury. It's a terrible system that only works insofar as people who do something wrong are far more likely to be subjected to it in the first place, and people who haven't done anything wrong tend to have less shit hanging off of them that lawyers can use to turn the jury against them. 

There should be a specialized medical judgement board, that actually has some understanding about what they're making judgements on. If a doctor is condemned by that board, they should be vulnerable to lawsuits - otherwise, the lawyers can fuck off. That's a system that has a chance of avoiding the tremendous costs we pay in terms of candor and competence from our doctors in the current system.  Yeah, that goes in the insane category.

You have to be pretty selfish and egocentric to be happy around so many miserable people. Source, peer-reviewed http://stroke.ahajournals.org/content/45/8/2318.abstract?sid=8dafb20b-0f81-4ae2-9d38-31745104e1b5

On  University of Minnesota site http://www.health.umn.edu/news-releases/chronic-stress-depressive-symptoms-and-hostility-associated-increased-risk-stroke Repost? I haven't seen this yet. I believe LDH is intracellular, so at that point release is probably from cell lysis rather than ischemia. I'm not a doctor but a cell culture engineer.  Anecdote below, stop reading here if you wish. 

This reminds me of how MS patients in the US must have a spinal tap to be diagnosed as well as X amount of lesions on the brain seen via MRI. As an Australian, I had one MRI which showed lesions, then I was diagnosed and medicated. These examples are not only extreme they are wrong. Ct abdomen does not cause cancer in 1 out of 500 patients. Especially with newer low radiation protocols..do you know how many CTs are ordered in this country, especially out of the ED? If it was 1in500 I doubt this would even be a fda approved imaging modality. 

You can't "implant a defibrillator" in every heart failure patient...who do you think makes these decisions? Very specific criteria and insurance company approval. Inappropriate shocks are extremely rare from these devices, and infection rates are low unless you are an IVDA. 

Don't be hyperbolic with incorrect medical information. It doesn't do anyone any good.  Quite often the patient has to pay out of pocket for these needless tests, even if they have insurance. Medical bills are the leading cause of bankruptcy.  &gt; so I stopped taking them.

Sounds like BorisBC stopped taking without reporting to doctor? Just speculation. Particularly those frequented by gay men is the point I was making. I am not an expert, so I will remain skeptical,  but hopeful.  So no doubt you have better data for all doctors, or why else are you so confident? Or are you just basing it on your own experience as a pharmacist?

And how do you propose getting information on motivations if not through a survey, which by the way can be very accurate if performed on a representative sample and controlled for biased responses. Do you have a good explanation for why more doctors in states with less favourable legislation reported overtesting? The problem I always have with this type of study is the solution that people propose to solve it. It is usually some type of tort reform. Despite the fact that actual med mal claims are only a fraction of a percent of total health care costs &amp; it will apply to all torts. Standardizing costs for procedures, and the standards of care is where we should start. IMHO &gt;Youd have a beam that you could control in all directions,

So . . . how long until lightsabers? It's not clear to me why this is a bad thing Plenty of patients carry of diagnosis of 'epilepsy ' and are treated without any need to take away a drivers license (state dependent whether a dr can do this). No one is ever diagnosed just based off a single seizure...there is a huge differential for seizures way beyond epilepsy...not to mention a very significant amount of epileptics do not have grand mal type seizures.  This is the kind of crap that gets purported by the public that Dr's do...a lot of thought goes into what is causing a seizure and most patient problems. Physicians do a poor job of communicating the complexity of these tests and decisions, but I have yet to meet one who indiscriminately makes a diagnosis like this. At that point (like with Hollywood), maybe the bigger question would be about how these costs actually come to fruition, rather than questioning only the outcome side of it.

So instead of asking "how can we reduce the number of tests" the question should be "why are these tests so expensive in the first place".
It's not like those numbers aren't variables.

This doesn't touch on the issue of negative health effects OF the tests, but when we look at economics, I often wonder why the start variables are often seen as "just set in stone", and go from there. What kind of payouts on these in court? it will be interesting to see if the changes are a result of the gametes being exposed to different oxygen levels and temperatures than they would experience during natural fertilisation, *or* if the changes are a result of the fact that IVF sperm dont experience "natural selection" as they would during natural fertilisation. COGS for the coffee is 8cents (with cup). Useless mba school fact. So yeah, mc donalds messed up big time. A large proportion of my on-call work is defensive scanning by clinical colleagues.  Mainly acute medicine.  Examinations "to rule out" this or "to exclude" that, most commonly for "exclude bleed" or "rule out intracranial infection".  

I always caveat these reports with "please note that X cannot fully exclude Y" as a form of defensive practice of my own! Can't take days off if you have a four-cup habit.  Coffee is a painkiller, essentially, with associated withdrawal.  "We need to be sure..." Is the most common phrase uttered in the hospital. Defensive medicine is the most common type of medicine practiced for every field. Yeah but it's the bad kind.   Imagine submarines with this coating getting to as high speeds as planes. This could be a new and inexpensive travelling method. Apparently the system works here. Cool. Plenty of Dr.s make entire careers out of "ruining other Dr.s". Being an expert witness for a malpractice firm is extremely lucrative...the only thing required is for you to sell your soul.  Medicine is extremely easy to practice in retrospect when you have your 20/20 goggles on. Not so much in the present with real patients and very real time constraints. Making Dr.s look evil and incompetent  to a "jury of their peers" is quite easy believe it or not. 


It should be mentioned as well that the majority of cases of malpractice are arbitrated out of court...regardless of any wrongdoing on the physicians part...this is at the discretion of the malpractice insurance compan ie. They can arbitrate and pay off the "victim" even if the dr would prefer to go to court and fight it because they practiced above and beyond the standard of care.  Because it adds an incredible amount of cost to the system performing countless tests that aren't necessary.  The odds say it won't and it might distract you from a more common diagnosis. Not to mention know what a disease/ problem is, doesn't always help. Great, we now know you have a inoperable brain tumor, which we already suspected, but is now confirmed on MRI... how do we treat you? no differently if we didn't have the MRI.  The observations on internet trolls was interesting. Agree, but there has to be a better system. Dr's are human and mistakes happen, not to mention complications happen that are no ones fault but still harmful to the patient, which sucks. You would be very surprised how many patients are looking for a mistake from a physician just to sue. It is unfortunate and really fucks stuff up for everyone else.  I'm not trolling, I'm trying to have a discussion with you but for some reason you just keep copy/pasting inanities.

You asserted I was incorrect, but can't even show why.

The goal of the study was always to determine if there was an bias towards overestimating future warming. It says so in the first paragraph of the linked article:

&gt;*A new paper takes an in-depth look at the suggestion that climate models routinely overestimate the speed at which Earth's surface is warming - and finds the argument lacking.*

It's not about accuracy, it's about bias. If you disagree, then publish your own peer-reviewed paper. I'm going to go with the actual experts instead of an anonymous redditor. You are being uncivil. Who's going to do the work, who's going to pay for it... the world isn't this clear cut. Food addiction is called obesity (or sometimes bulimia.) most people have already heard the bad sides of obesity but bulimia fucks your teeth, ups chances of heart issues and gives you a much greater chance of throat cancer, because constant purging makes your body start growing stomach lining on your throat to handle the acid.  I'd like to see what the stats were for the G20 vs for the USA. As a person in medicine, you should know then it is up to the patient. You provide the information, the statistics, and ultimately you let them choose. " Women are 70% more likely to be depressed at some point in their lives than men"

Funny because 95% of all the suicides you hear about are men? I'm generally not informed of the case results, I generally just gather video and photos of the incident and gathering statements from employees in the store who may have witnessed the incident.

Even if we were found not to be negligent in their injury, the case will cost or company thousands of dollars for research, court fees and legal team costs. Troll, troll, troll your boat elsewhere. Yeah, but insurance companies want to blame somebody for the profits they could have if doctors would just stop being so careful. I can hear the strategy meeting now: "Everybody hates lawyers, so how can we make this about them?" Troll, troll, troll your boat elsewhere. What do you think the dose and risk is for a CT abd/pelvis for a middle aged woman where the reason for study is vague ("r/o acute abdomen")? 1 in 500 might be a bit high (depending on age too) but i think it's within the right order of magnitude. &gt; But this is not the case. Even a condition with a 1 in a million likelihood is a significant concern if there are 15 million potentials every year. Statistics mean nothing to an individual that it affects. No doctor is truly screening their every one of their patients for 1 in 1 million conditions, but they'll certainly test anyone who has any reasonable suspicion of it. 

Yes, my example was overly simplistic (and I admitted that right afterwards), but my point was the reasonable suspicion you ended with. Without anything more, there's no reason to suspect the 1 in a million disease. In that contrived example there's only two diseases so why not test anyway, but in real life there'd be dozens of possibilities as you're well aware. In the US alone though, with ~350 million citizens, 1 in a million affects ~350 citizens, so there would need to be some reason to for that 1 in a million disease early on with something that's more likely (and most doctors only treat their local areas with less than a few million people generally). Instead of statistical population chance, I should've gone with the likelihood the individual had it, which population statistical chance does play a role if there isn't better information.

Your example is better and I'm glad someone in medicine could go deeper into it. I'm not necessarily against defensive diagnosing because diagnosing's definitely more of an art than a science. Heart attacks are pretty common so it makes sense to test for that in your example. 

The only thing I don't particularly care for is your "statistics mean nothing to an individual". Yea, it sucks when someone dies because they weren't diagnosed early enough with some rare disease the doctor's never seen. As long as the doctor was trying there's no reason to sue because no doctor can know about every possible disease. I'd be willing to bet that most of the time the doctor had no reason to suspect or frankly necessarily remember about the disease in most cases like that. Missing something as common as a heart attack is different than missing diseases that only affect a small portion of the population without some reason to suspect it (or again, remember it). Doctors can't be perfect and might not remember some of the more unlikely scenarios they don't see in real life all that often or ever. I certainly wouldn't expect my neurosurgeon to go home and study rare brain/cNS disease flash cards frequently when they get home. Might want to read the article. The point of this is that the metal surface itself is rendered ultra-hydrophobic, you don't apply a chemical to it to achieve a (temporary) ultra-hydrophobic effect. Of course they aren't praying for something to go wrong, but if something does go wrong they are waiting with a lawyer to sue, so the doctors order tests, some that aren't even necessary. Unless you are seriously injured, I think that doctors are human (despite what some believe) and make mistakes. Ppl should find someone that they trust and that explains all the possible risks of a procedure.  When you put someone on a pedestal that's when things go wrong. Reducing your risk by 80% is still pretty good when you are already going to engage in risky behavior. 

Conversely this doesn't mean you have a 20% chance of contracting HIV since it's transmission is not 100% guaranteed. 

Additionally I believe the CDC has previously stated the effectiveness of condoms when used properly is much nearer to 100% effective than 80% It was more of a joke, the whole "Americans make awful coffee"  Phosphodiesterases degrade cyclic nucleotides, like cyclic-AMP. Cyclic-AMP is an important secondary messenger in the melanin synthesis pathway. Keeping more cAMP around through inhibition of phosphodiesterases may potentially increase the melanin production in melanocytes, thus providing more antioxidants/protection in the local environment.  Probably ran into sigfig issues - the chance of acquiring HIV through standard piv sex is only .04% Just FYI, it's the peroneal vein (also known as fibular vein) that the clot in your calf was in. The only reason I'm being nitpicky is perineum refers to the taint region. So saying the perineal vein may give people the wrong picture.  I think it depends on the field. But I work at a hospital with neurosurgeons and I can concur with this study. My primary care doctor has a test for every complaint that I have. I'd rather go on the Internet and do research and find some way to figure it out without me having x-rays and ultrasounds all the time that always come out normal 
That was really informative, as I know very little about epidemiology. I do know a fair amount melanocyte biology though, this is why I think this association exists. I posted this up a little bit I just wanted to make sure you saw it since it seems like you were interested!

Phosphodiesterases degrade cyclic nucleotides, like cyclic-AMP. Cyclic-AMP is an important secondary messenger in the melanin synthesis pathway. Keeping more cAMP around through inhibition of phosphodiesterases may potentially increase the melanin production in melanocytes, thus providing more antioxidants/protection in the local environment.  Hi, I'm "the lab" or my actual title, a Medical Technologist. I wanted to explain why you are probably getting questioned about too many tests. A lot of times, we know that certain doctors always order a certain panel of tests. (Example: I know if a peds patient comes in exhibiting flu systems and Dr.X is working, he will always order Flu, RSV and parainflu testing. Most other doctors just order influenza.) The problem is in the US there is a new campaign from the American Society of Clinical Pathology (ASCP) called [Choosing Wisely](http://www.ascp.org/Functional-Nav/The-Choosing-Wisely-Campaign/) asking hospitals to cut down on unnecessary testing and the lab to question excessive ordering. 

I would recommend sitting down with your lab department and explaining why you order those tests even if it's a quick conversation with the next person you talk to. We in the lab understand and like to know these things. I know I like when doctors put comments on reqs because I can see what they are thinking and helps me know why my results could be out of spec.  We are the ones who are going to give you those super high potassium results if they occur and we also want to have all information to make the best decisions about the results we release.  It's not clear to me that "performing additional tests out of fear of malpractice lawsuits" equates to those tests not being necessary. This is actually starting to bleed into the Veterinary community too.  It used to be that if your dog was having diarrhea and you brought him to the vet you would probably get some anti-diarrheal medication based on your vets best guess at what is going on.  If he got worse then you rechecked with the vet the next day (or 2 or 3).  

Now the problem is people are so quick to sue, give you a bad review, and/or report you to the board that we are forced to run diagnostic tests to assure we haven't missed anything.  Especially in animals because they do a bad job of conveying how they feel.  The treatment may be the same but you have to spend $250 in diagnostics to prove what the vet already suspected based on the history and physical exam.

Now this wouldn't bother me except there are very few insurance companies picking up the bill.  So my clients get pissed because their vet visits cost so much.  They don't realize that societies rejection of anything less then perfection has forced us to practice defensively.  And even with all those added diagnostics and cost, it's impossible to be right 100% of the time. That's a moot point because tons of people get basal cell carcinoma, which is fairly benign and so common that it's almost always excluded from cancer statistics.
 Yeah... I know of two people that are living it up on tinder right now. I know for certain they both have herpes (one gave it to the other- he co fessed this to me years ago) and they are most certainly not disclosing this to their many partners.  Dammit. I should have taken a pic of the treadmill last night. Oh well. I think we are going to the gym and I don't want to be off my lifting schedule, so three miles it is.   Why wouldn't they? If the patient pays for the testing there will be a limit. Disagree, depends on your insurance...if it is provided by an employer ( majority of docs now) then it is not up to the physician to go to court or not. A lot of docs I know even go as far to hire their own lawyer on top of the hospital and malpractice provided attorney's.  Yeah, I am grateful for that. Is the contrast they use with some MRIs the same or similar to the one used with CTs? I did get a lot of that and have to do it whenever I have my "check-up" MRIs.  He said English, not smarty-pants. Introducing more ways to place sex-oriented personal ads leads to more things caused by sex obtained through personal ads. Took a real genius to come up with that conclusion, I'm sure. That's an awesome graph. Thank you! I agree. We have been shocked in the past few years by how much our mostly routine visits are costing us. We have been going to the same vet's office for 20 years. This year we will be looking for another vet who won't make us feel we are being taken advantage of money-wise. :(


We have 2 spaniels. The past couple of years they have been pushing to get us to have their teeth cleaned - which is a good idea of course. However, they want to charge - get ready - $500 for each and of course, they might have to run some extra tests or pull a tooth or something. THAT would, of course, raise the price well beyone the $500. It always seems that coffee is great; assuming you are otherwise healthy do any of these studies show negative effects from overconsumption? Well the defibrillator kinda makes sense, I mean most people are familiar with jump starting a car, so using that as an example of how a defib works, even though it's not really right, to someone who just isn't grasping it is probably what led to it being such an over used trope. Statistics are a tricky thing. Outcomes are not directly associated with recklessness...some Dr's take on extremely difficult cases all the time that have a lot of complications by the nature of the patient or disease. A lot of docs at academic centers are treating patients that are significantly more complicated then the average. Doc would treat in the community, outcomes in these patients are tricky and I have yet to see a data set that takes all of these factors into account. Meanwhile Medicare has cut payments to some of the best and largest academic centers in our country due to increased complication rates. 

We are incentivizing dr.s to avoid taking on complicated patients.  Nearly every state has some sort of medical legal panel in place where a true panel of peers must make a finding of a breach of professional standard of care before a lawsuit can go to court.   Well, I'll still go fuck myself, but sorry for being rude. I was a bit drunk after coming home from the bar, and got a bit sick of reading some of the replies on here. Take care. It's the gays. Hiv is largely a male homosexual problem in the US.  Been in your exact spot, worked for me. That's how it read to me, which is why it's **stupid** to stop taking any prescribed medication without talking to a doctor, not to mention that he *stopped taking it because of an allergic reaction and didn't tell the doctor*. I'd rather be screened one time too many than one time too few. Though I'm a hypochondriac so this is very biased. The trick is getting people to use condoms properly. They don't. Condoms have a surprisingly high failure rate as a result. &gt; Craigslist is ... mainly used by gay men for casual sex

Don't know where you get this info, but Craigslist is mainly used to buy and sell used stuff at a discount. They've got roughly 100 sections, people use it for all sorts of stuff. Gay men and sex are a small portion of what Craigslist does. Say the patient requests the u/a and based on the results wants to change treatment plans. That's not an impossible scenario is it? Patients willing to pay out of pocket for this stuff aren't hurting anybody. They might be medically unqualified, but we all have blind spots to our limitations. I envision an outcome that protects physicians while still keeping the publics ability to hold doctors accountable via the legal system. I wonder what undetectable means. And poz friendly.. wtf. I also remember reading a report about office workers having similar incidences with outdoor workers in regards of UV related diseases, in this case melanoma. The point was that office windows wouldn't provide any protection against refracted UV from outside.

Edit. So I found those papers again. I recalled them partly correct. Those papers mentioned that office workers have a higher incidence rate compared to outdoor workers. Their hypothesis behind this was that, office windows only allow UV-A to pass while filtering UV-B. While outside workers get both. UV-B is responsible for vitamin D synthesis and there is evidence that vitamin D has protective properties against melanoma. Your ignorance is showing.

http://www.quora.com/Why-did-science-make-little-real-progress-in-Europe-in-the-Middle-Ages/answer/Tim-ONeill-1

edit: haha, this clown downvoted me for proving him wrong Why does emphasizing the gay part make you seem kinda sorta a little anti gay? Gartner will repeat this as fact for the next ten years It's not just neurosurgeons, one of the first major practical concepts we were taught in medical school is "CYA". Cover your a**, meaning anyone who can sue will sue so when you're staring their lawyer in the eye on court day, you better be able to say you did everything humanly possible to treat them. How about giving tpa to 100 year old because family  I'd love to have a nearby forest to walk through, honestly. Too bad I'm surrounded by farmland. . .only option I've got is small city parks. My mother-in-law died years ago after 9 months rotting in a bed.  This happened because her neurosurgeon went on vacation  two days after removing a ginormous clot from her brain.  After days her drain didn't dry up and it was clear she would need a shunt.  My mother-in-law was an operating room nurse of 38 years and despite the dangers of a shunt,  knew she needed one.  The attending physician (or whatever doctor in charge in the surgeons absence) refused to perform any surgery at the fresh site of another surgeon, because they did not want to assume the liability of the work that the first neurosurgeon performed. 

So after a few days of the draining not stopping,  they sewed her up and moved her out of the ICU.  After a couple days there,  they shipped her to a rehab facility while she had no visitors.  They sent her to a place that my father-in-law was thinking about using based on a casual conversation he had with a nurse. 

When she arrived they refused to accept her in her near-comatose condition and she had an infection at the site.  The ambulance drivers refused to return her due to get condition.  By chance the rehab was on site of a hospital so they took her, treated her infection and then ultimately she was transferred to an end of life facility where she remained for the next 8 1/2 months until she passed. 

She made it through surgery fine.  She was going to recover fine.  DEFENSIVE MEDICINE TORTURED,  THEN KILLED HER.  Quality control and medical malpractice are not equivalent.  The legal system is not concerned about how satisfied patients are with their overall experience.  Medical malpractice addresses the failures of medical professionals to meet the appropriate standard of care.   The only reason hospitals and other providers are concerned about being found at fault is because there is a judicial system that has the ability to review their work and seek compensation for failures.  Without legal oversight, it would be like any other business seeking to cut corners and reduce costs to maximize profits.  Is that the "quality control" you want from your medical providers? Oh so I'm still right: female ads are computers. Men have the real posts. 4th year med student here. Working in the ED, I would say 100% of the ED docs practice defense medicine 75% of the time. Other people can figure out whether that's a bad or a good thing. I get heart palpitations drinking one cup so no thanks. True, but access to used coffee tables (for local pick-up only) is worth something, right? I mean they're all intracellular You're focusing excessively on the "rare" diseases. A lot of diseases share extremely common symptoms, rare or not. Headache with associated nausea and vomiting? It can be a migraine, but those are also symptoms of a cerebral hemorrhage. Or it could be flu, regular headache with gastritis, or a number of other relatively common combinations. Weakness of one side of the body, difficulty speaking, and some change in mental status? It looks like a stroke, it quacks like a stroke. Or it could be a UTI, and those are common presentations for UTI. Or it could be a reaction to a change in medication. Something as common as shortness of breath can be associated with asthma, anemia, COPD, heart attack, pulmonary embolism, infection, congestive heart failure, etc etc. And guess how many of those diseases I just mentioned often run together in patients. So they come in for shortness of breath but deny chest pain(and people can and do have heart attacks with no chest pain and completely normal EKGs), and now you have to determine if its COPD exacerbation vs asthma vs congestive heart failure vs pulmonary embolism vs acute coronary syndrome vs some other unknown, or it could even be a combination of these things in some form. It's a goddamned mess at times, and suddenly you're ordering 12-14 tests that progressively adding more because you're not at a REASON for the issue. 

The point is, even when you really, really start to narrow down the possibilities of an illness, there are still a myriad of commonalities in diseases that need to be filtered out. More tests are costlier in a variety of ways aside from actual monetary cost, but building up a list of negatives can be equally important, especially when the answer isn't something as simple as diagnosing a stroke. I have seen a few doctors take the death of a patient hard because some seemingly minor detail/event was not mentioned, and having that small bit of knowledge would have added another test to the arsenal that could have made all the difference. I've also seen doctors add an "unnecessary test" looking for one thing and discover early stages(and late/terminal stages) of cancers in patients that made no mention of symptoms impacting organ systems that were crawling with cancer. ...and yet malpractice allegedly kills more people than drunk drivers and firearms combined.  If that is true, can you imagine how bad it would be if they didn't practice defensive medicine? Where the hell did they do their training? Because you're infected with the plague known as political correctness.  Gay men are far more likely to be carriers of HIV than heterosexual men or women.  There is nothing "anti-gay" about it.  OP is just mentioning facts backed up by mounds of statistics and peer-reviewed data. Totally false.  First, a medical malpractice case can cost plaintiffs anywhere between $30,000 to $50,000 to bring the case to trial.  It is not worth my time or money to seek compensation on cases that are questionable liability.

Secondly, you cannot pull in a "bogus expert that have no idea what they are talking about."  Experts must be qualified.  They must be accredited in the same specialty as the defendant doctor.  They must also be actively practicing medicine and devoting at least 75% of their professional time to treating patients in that specialty.  You cannot hire a chiropractor to criticize a surgeon.  You cannot hire a heart surgeon to criticize a brain surgeon.  

Your belief on how the actual legal system investigates and litigates cases is misguided and based upon false advertising memes about plaintiff attorneys.    

 Please keep discussion civil in /r/science. Then the issue is with the medical insurance companies, not medical malpractice lawsuits.  In Ohio, the number of medical malpractice claims have dropped by almost 50% over the past decade.  However, insurance premiums have risen.  Why?  Because the insurance companies are keeping the savings as profit.  The medical profession should address their concerns with the insurance companies.  Plaintiffs attorneys are just a distraction to keep the attention away from the insurance companies and their profits. NP here. I said the same when I read the article. Thumbs up on the clarification. I'm also going to guess that it was popliteal, not peroneal.  As a 32 year old who has already had a stroke, ruptured brain aneurysm, brain seizures and multiple other aneurisms I am SOOO thankful when they run extra tests. Safe is the way to go. Run extra, do more, catch it sooner to help save my life. This is the only place I do not mind it at all. My Neuro doctors are all very well paid and for good reason.    Right, and someone accused of a felony should be judged by a jury composed of fellow felons.  What could go wrong??? This means I have at least a 40% reduced risk How can that be possible? Wouldn't water still have a drag force against the craft? I'd love to see it, but I'm not going to believe it until I see it. The study is looking at historical data, when tindr/grinder wasn't around What I said is based on what medical professionals have told me about the process of being sued and about their careers and time spent in court/giving depositions. They have said that the expert witnesses are idiots and there are loopholes that allow morons to be called as expert witnesses.

A surgeon I know once told me a story about a time he was being sued and the expert witness gave two days of testimony wherein he borderline lied about correct procedures and criticized everything the defendant did. The defendant went home, researched the witness, and found a paper that the witness had recently published in a scholarly journal. The paper completely supported the defendant and contradicted everything the witness had been saying on the stand. Defendant gave his lawyer the paper with the relevant parts highlighted and spent a day grilling him on the stand reading snippets from the paper and contradictory testimony from the day before and watching the guy squirm and sweat.

The other docs I've talked to have also said that there are tons of unscrupulous "expert witnesses" that seem to be willing to say whatever the plaintiff's attorney asks them to say. Undetectable means your viral load, due to an antiretroviral regimen, is so low that it is undetectable and you aren't a transmission risk. Poz-friendly means you are willing to consider meeting up with poz people. I just had brain surgery - laser ablation epilepsy surgery and I'm thankful for all of the double checking. It's not. It *might* have been posted to get a rise out of Reddit but thankfully /r/science has competent members who are quick to explain the issue. The real problem is that our country doesn't accept the idea of a missed diagnosis. If I miss 1 heart attack out of 100, I am faulted. An initial ECG and hx can capture almost all STEMIs. An ECG, hx, troponin can capture 97% of NSTEMIs, but instead, we want 99-100, so you want me to consult cardiology, get another test in 4-6 hours, get that stress test and waste more resources. Unlikely isn't the same as impossible. It *can* happen. 80% isn't 100% percent. Allegedly flying is safer than driving, but lots of people have died in plane crashes.  

Sure, condoms help a lot, but they aren't perfect. Some of those CL people may very well have used them.  This is nonsense.  Medical malpractice cases are 100% based upon the facts (medical records) of each particular case.  Cases are not won on "emotional manipulation" of a jury.   This is not a movie.  

The American legal system is the greatest civil justice system ever allowed to exist on this planet.  What is the alternative you so wish to exist?  Plead your case to a king?  Draw straws?  Be beholden to a bureaucratic agency to determine your fate???  

Your suggestion of a "specialized medical judgment board" already exists in each and every state.  In Ohio, it is called the State Medical Board.  It is tasked with deciding which doctors are accredited and permitted to practice medicine in the state.  It is composed primarily of doctors.  They do not prevent medical mistakes.  In fact, the board is so lenient to their fellow doctors that you can be under the influence of a narcotic, perform a surgery, and still be allowed to practice medicine, just as long as you enter into a 12-step program and agree to take a monthly drug test.   

 Yea not everyone gets a diagnosis as easy as that. My brother has a lesion in his spinal cord, and professionals from around the world have yet to reach a definitive diagnosis. MRI scans every month or two have helped keep track of its growth and its shifting position. Just because you were comparatively lucky to get a diagnosis doesn't mean everyone else has it as simple as diagnosis and treatment from the start But what you're calling defensive diagnosing is just normal diagnosing to actually know what the issue is. "Defensive" as the article is putting it is testing for TB when someone just has a head cough and no reason to believe they have TB such as bloody chest coughs or spending time where TB is common. It's not about the patient being likely to have the disease being tested for, it's solely about doing the testing so when the lawyers come around the doctor can cover their ass. The article even says that:

&gt;"Defensive medicine practices do not align with patient-centered care, and may contribute to increased inefficiency in an already taxed health care system," Dr. Smith and coauthors conclude.

All the tests you've talked about *make sense* because there's some reason to believe it might be the problem, such as [as you said] heart attacks happening with no chest pain and normal EKGs. These high risk doctors as the article puts it aren't defensively testing because they think it might be the issue, they're testing to when a lawyer comes they can check off the lawyers checklist and not be sued into oblivion for doing their job responsibly.

EDIT: You do defensive diagnosing so when the lawyer comes around they can't say, "Well why didn't you test for x disease they actually had that hardly ever comes up?". It's super obvious in hindsight that they should've tested for x disease, but it isn't always obvious before you already know what it is. My second and third points still stand. If anything, MRIs are more likely to find harmless abnormalities, and are significantly more expensive. Because of price and other logistical concerns, they are not chosen anywhere near as frequently as other imaging studies.  It is not a deviation from the best practices.  A doctor is only liable when the minimum standards of care are not met.  Patients are not entitled to the best medicine, only the minimum level of care.  Deviation from a providers "best practices" is not sufficient to establish malpractice.  A patient must show that the treatment provided did not meet the minimum standards of care, and as a result of that failure to meet the acceptable standard, they suffered an injury.  

Not all mistakes are actionable. You have zero idea what you're talking about. 

If this system worked, the US wouldn't spend ~$6,300 per person on healthcare and be #29 in life expectancy when other developed nations spend ~$2,200 and have higher life expectancy, lower rates of morbidity, and lower rates of infant and maternal mortality. Our healthcare system is the worst in the first world, and practices like what is being described by OP are a contributing factor. How many malpractice cases do you think are filed every year?   Shouldn't the main focus be that these tests cost so much in the first place?

I'm 100% down for testing basically everything short of a spinal tap on myself.  More info is always better.

The costs in the healthcare system need to be fixed so that we can switch to "defensive medicine". I agree.  Very little is 100% guaranteed in life.  That wasn't my argument.  My argument was that mitigating your risk as much as possible is better than nothing if you are going to continue engaging in risky behavior.

Would you agree that it's more risky and thus more likely to contract HIV without condoms than it is with them?  Gay men are only more likely to be carriers of HIV due to anal sex. Heterosexual women who engage in anal sex are actually as largely to be carriers of HIV as gay men, when you control for the distribution of HIV among heterosexual men (Bisexual men makes it more complicated, so they are excluded).

According to the CDC, being on the receiving end of anal sex is actually more risky than sharing needles for IV drug use! (http://www.cdc.gov/hiv/policies/law/risk.html) Especially when there were thousands of previous complaints.  The jury awarded one days worth of profits earned from coffee sales as a way to force McDonalds to make a change.   Its almost like frequent instances of anonymous sex are conducive to the spread of sexually transmitted diseases. Insurance companies books are open for public scrutiny (the publically traded ones at least) and as with all insurance they operate at break even until you consider the float (the money collected in advance) being invested in safer investments (bonds etc). So no, this is not the case. u/pretentiously is correct EXCEPT that people with "undetectable" viral load ABSOLUTELY can and do transmit the virus.  "Undetectable" does not mean "not a transmission risk".  The test for viral load detects down to only 20 copies/ml; "undetectable" simply means fewer than 20 copies of virus per ml of blood. Just a guess, but wouldn't part of that reason be that condoms, while very good at protecting from STDs, are also more likely to be used when there is a risk of pregnancy. Because there is no risk of pregnancy with gay men, there may be less inclination to wear and use condoms? Spot on. Exactly the same thing is happening in the UK with publishing surgical outcomes and mortality data. The problem is politicians sticking their oar in, scapegoating doctors in the name of "transparency" and the public laps it up without realising that ultimately they pay the price. That sounds exactly like my friday. Most productive day in month, broke down from practically dancing on the street on my way home to suicide attempt in a span of 10 minutes. I don't have an analogy for that I'm afraid.  I have to agree with you.  Gays aren't the only group that spreads HIV. By mentioning gays exclusively, the post sounds like only gays spread HIV, which is misleading.  Also, gays are not the only people who use craigslist for sex.   there is a huge difference between saying "gays spread HIV" and the established statistic, "gays are more at risk to get HIV" and there aren't any sources to say his claims are correct, so yea, I think the post is anti gay too. Honest question, can't a computer program be written to do some statistics (demographic, geographic, history, etc...) and determine the statistically most optimal set of "routine" tests to run? Unless you have high sensitivity troponins that you can recheck in 4 hours....and they are also abnormally elevated far too often in healthy patients. "Undetectable" does not mean "not a transmission risk".  People with "undetectable" viral load can and do transmit the virus.  The test for viral load detects down to only 20 copies/ml; "undetectable" simply means fewer than 20 copies of virus per ml of blood. Sure, I agree. I never disagreed. All I'm saying is that they aren't perfect, and the various posters here who have said 'Hurr durr, they should have used condoms' should apologize. Sometimes it is a good idea to take another look at ordinary things. This is just one example. A very interesting one. Fixed in one 15 minute visit WITHOUT them as the patient having to do anything proactive and without any possibility of a bad outcome.  A doctor doesn't have to order every test imaginable.  Only those that a reasonable physician with the same skill and training would have ordered in the same circumstances that doctor was presented.  

Let's say a patient is complaining of pain in his chest that is radiating down the left arm, he is 50 years old, smoker, and his father passed away of a heart attack at the age of 45.  A doctor that fails to order an EKG could be exposed to a malpractice case if that patient suffers a heart attack shortly after being discharged.  But, if that same doctor doesn't order an x-ray of the arm to ensure the radiating pain isnt from a broken bone, that would not be malpractice because that test would not be a reasonable test to perform for that particular patient.  

There is no such thing as defensive medicine.  It is just an excuse for hospitals to order more testing to maximize profits. Doctor here, it depends on your malpractice insurance policy. Your rate is cheaper if you waiver the right to decide. In most hospital and large practices it is standard policy that the insurance company can decide.  No, you just test for that late in the diagnosing process when the more likely causes have been ruled out or there's some reason to expect it (e.g. genetic condition that runs in the family). I wouldn't expect to be tested for TB when I come in with a head cough and a slight fever. Maybe I have TB through some miracle, but what doctor in their right mind would test for that when it's just been a head cold every other time in their potentially decades of experience and I haven't been anywhere where I'd likely be exposed? Diagnosing is never going to be done in a single round for things like neuromedicine, but that's just normal diagnosing, not defensive diagnosing. Defensive would be testing everyone who comes in with a slight fever and head cough for TB when even a non-gambler would gamble on the chances that none of them do. Well, it depends. You're correct that malpractice liability policies CAN include wording that allows doctors to choose whether or not to settle, but not always.

See: Mohan Papudesu, MD v. Medical Malpractice Joint Underwriting Assn. of Rhode Island The problem is you're pushing abstinence only bullshit.  Sex is 0% safe when you only teach people to not have sex and they don't know enough to use condoms when they finally do it anyway.   Fuck that's a lot of coffee, I might have 2 at most. Entertainment Stand for me, actually.  Paid $50 and it's quite nice.   Also, at least in my state the legislature has made it mandatory for plaintiffs to produce an expert affidavit early in the litigation process from a medical professional which supports the plaintiff's claims.  This helps cut down on frivolous claims as well. &gt; ConclusionsHigh adherence to MeD seems to be associated with a lower risk of incident IS independent of potential confounders. Adherence to MeD is not related to the risk of incident hemorrhagic stroke. 

As best google tells me, ischemic stroke is blocked arteries in the brain from blood clots. So you're telling me that if a soldier gets shot/blown up/run over by a tank/etc., you can't just zap them with a defibrillator anywhere on their body to instantly revive them?
Video games have lied to me... "at or near break even".... This is nonsense.   Please cite why you think so.

Here are my sources: http://www.berkshirehathaway.com/reports.html

Annual reports are the best for Buffet's discussion of the insurance industry. It can also be independently verified by analyzing annual reports of other insurance companies. I didn't see where number of cases was mentioned. Can you show me where it is? This shouldn't be seen as a big surprise.  One of the biggest things the HIV scare did was cause people to stop being so open about sex.  You actually saw a big dip in the late 80's early 90's in teen pregnancy rates because it was no longer seen as okay to have several sex partners and people become more exclusive.  

You also saw a rise of comprehensive sex education classes including condom use and education on STD risks.  

Now to the flip side, access to personal ads like on Craigslist seems to allow people to post for no-strings-attached style sex with multiple partners, something that's become to taboo to simply ask for in public.  America is still far behind most countries in proper sex education, so it's not surprising this increase also comes with its own risks.   &gt; The other docs I've talked to have also said that there are tons of unscrupulous "expert witnesses" that seem to be willing to say whatever the plaintiff's attorney asks them to say.

-They can lose their medical license for this.   Geico does not insure medical professionals That's not even the main issue, however. Even if the patient cannot prove that the doctor's outcome was based on negligence, they *can*, and very often will, drag out the case for as long as humanely possible. This forces both the patient and the doctor being sued to accumulate massive court fees, to the point where settling for a couple hundred thousand - a million dollars becomes cheaper than dragging out the court case.

This is where the real issue lies.

Source: Father in medicine, studying it right now.  And the female population (straight, lesbian, bisexual) as a whole is less likely to be a carrier for HIV, even if you break down according to sexual preference.

For the purposes of this discussion, it doesn't matter what the cause is, only that gay men are proportionally, the most likely to suffer from it.   The notion of drag encompasses a few effects. The craft would still have to physically displace the water so there's drag from that, but skin friction drag would be reduced. You seem to have a good understanding of the nuances of your condition,  but the "guys in the lab" are physicians too- they're surgical pathologists with 10 years of professional training in diagnostic medicine.  I'm sure a lot of thought went into your initial diagnosis.  But there is significant histologic overlap with glial tumors, and often not much tissue for diagnosis.  It's not always clear how the neoplasm will behave. But it would likely be malpractice for the surgeon to NOT follow their recommendation (if it caused harm).   Your statement is based on some degree of trust in the trial by jury system, one that I believe is inherently flawed. Medical science (as has ALL science) has progressed to the point that one needs a graduate degree in the field just to understand all of the important points of the case. Often, a case is won or lost based on catch phrases, the appearance of the defendant vs the appearance of the plaintiff, and other intangibles that have absolutely nothing to do with the facts of the case. And I believe that "12 people stupid enough to not know how to get out of jury duty" are just not capable of judging what the appropriate standard of care even is, much less whether it is being followed in each particular case. It's all a big show, and has nothing to do with "oversight", although the lawyers will continue to perpetuate the big myth that it does. I have to agree with you.  It's not just political correctness. There is a big difference between saying "gays are more at risk for HIV" and "gays spread HIV", because gays aren't the only ones that spread it, and they're not the only ones who use craigslist. Implying that gays are the only ones who spread HIV is definitely anti gay.  He then clarified that he's emphasizing gays, so his point is intentionally focusing on that stereotype.

The grinder app source is being misused too. Grindr is a hookup site. Men finding men for sex.  When the intent is to find sex, and anal sex is more likely to contract HIV, (that includes if you're a woman, again, not just gay men), why wouldn't grinder include that information, or include treatment options?  Again, it's the difference of saying you're at risk vs. you're the cause, and it's fucked up. Profits are being paid out as compensation to executives and investors.

http://www.healthcare-now.org/health-insurance-ceo-pay-skyrockets-in-2013

The biggest winner was Aetna CEO Mark Bertolini, who received a staggering $30.7 million compensation package in 2013.  This guy gets it! I love the way you said the plague known as political correctness! I am so sick of seeing this type of discussion and people automatically assuming someone is anti gay. Look if Im honest I don't completely agree with that lifestyle which I understand upsets people. The thing is I never bash anyone and keep to myself.    But I will say from one human to another human  people should be aware of the risks!!! Not to scare them off but to protect themselves!!!!  If we sugar coat everything then it's only going to cause real life issues and it solves nothing! So let's be honest, open, courteous and still respectful. In the end We are all on the same team right? Humans, so let's being caring and compassionate and sometimes that just means being honest in a delicate way. Well I rambled but kudos to your comments. Exactly what I want them to do. Just like I want everyone to drive defensively because accidents cause serious harm.  And they shouldn't complain so much about it.  I was hit by a car once --very minor injuries but went to hospital to get my back checked out. I ended up with CT scan, then MRI of my head because I might have bumped it on the way down.  Profit was generated, but it went to doctors and/or hospital, not, say, lawyers.  Not every test is benign.  A false positive on a test could lead to expensive interventions that carry their own morbidity and mortality.  The tests themselves can carry complications.  If I draw an arterial blood gas after surgery, that carries a risk of clotting your artery.  That could lead to your hand not having any blood supply to it, which is now a surgical emergency.

 Exactly what I want them to do. Just like I want everyone to drive defensively because accidents cause serious harm.  And they shouldn't complain so much about it.  I was hit by a car once --very minor injuries but went to hospital to get my back checked out. I ended up with CT scan, then MRI of my head because I might have bumped it on the way down.  Profit was generated, but it went to doctors and/or hospital, not, say, lawyers.  Thats easy, when you can't afford your medical bill and all your tests came back negative (which happens way way way more often then finding the odd positive lab test ordered just in case). How many medical malpractice jury trials have you presented?  How many have you attended?  Your beliefs are not based on facts.  Go see an actual trial.  You will be amazed at how wrong your assumptions are about the judicial system. I cannot find a single case report or paper showing a ct scan directly causing any type of cancer. The dose for a ct scan is around 50mSv on the high side with new protocols bringing it to around 10-15mSV. The newest scanners coming out will bring this down even further, I believe CT scans will move into the realm of X-ray in terms of radiation exposure. There is pretty good data out there that anything under 200msv isn't significant in humans, as well as some new studies on 'hormesis" essentially showing that radiation may be beneficial, increasing Dan repair represented by increased dNA double strand break repair enzymes, that's a controversial topic and by no means proven just illustrating another view.

Willie Kalender has a good book on CTs, with a well referenced chapter on this issue. You can find plenty of studies online putting the "risk" as high as 2%, but if you read them critically they are theoretical at best and only decreasing theoretical cancers. I cannot find any study with these risks that doesn't use the assumption that lifetime attributable risk of cancer (however small) from low dose radiation is Cumulative, this is a significant assumption and used to stratify patients without any good evidence showing it to be true. I say that an appropriately ordered ct scan at the appropriate radiation dose with the appropriate image quality (may require higher radiation doses at times) is worth a theoretical risk. 

I will agree that a lot of ct scans are done that aren't necessarily indicated, but most people do not understand that a negative tests has a significant value in itself, increasing ED throughput, decreasing stays and unnecessary consults as well as other unnecessary blood tests etc.  You're looking at a multi billion dollar industry and citing million dollar compensation packages. Also, Geico is not there only insurance company nor does the model change. This will be my last reply, thank you for replying thus far. I'm a radiologist.  People come into the ED all the time with altered mental status, headaches, fell and hit their head, etc. They routinely have CT scans of their brain and the vast majority are negative. 

People always talk about the overuse of imaging and this is clearly defensive medicine.  While the chance of a bleed may be very slim in the majority of these patients, you have to consider the fact that if one is present there are dire consequences for both the patient and the ED doc.
 
The ED doc, who may still have hundreds of thousands of dollars worth of medical school debt and spent the majority of his youth studying, will get sued risking his career, his livelihood, and his ability to pay off his loans.  If you decide not to scan 5000 patients, and a single patient has a bleed, it doesn't matter.  Same consequences.  

He has everything to lose and nothing to gain by not scanning the patient.  So i'll keep reading head CTs from the ED that a lot of people would say are unnecessary and I would probably be ordering the same number if I was down there. lol.. People do this all the time, and what they ascribe as an allergic reaction is almost never actually an allergic reaction.  Most often an unrelated problem they were having that they blamed the medication on.  They never tell their doctors when they discontinue it; they merely return sometime in the future sick due to not taking the medication with no idea why it happened. Yes, I've seen the subject pop up in all sorts of contexts. I wonder if there is a good review or book that tries to tie it all together. That was the exact argument I made to my psychiatrist. He asked me if I thought I would feel better about anxiety and depression if I wasn't as stressed out about being unable to focus on my work, and I told him yes. Whether this is 100% true remains to be seen because I have a theoretically infinite amount of work and adderall made me extra susceptible to mood swings. I'm thinking we try vyvanse and if that also makes me moody then we add an antidepressant.  I think the main reason is because of fluid transfer, nobody seems to grasp this when the issue is discussed. If a woman catches HIV from a man it's difficult for her to pass it onto another man, whereas it's comparably easy for a group of men to all pass it to each other. Each CT scan is about a 1% increase in the lifetime incidence of cancer That's not science, that's just guessing by looking at numbers. I shudder at my history on tinder Figures you would run away from facts. &gt;Reasons are hard to explain, but one facet of it is: my brain already fires on all cylinders just navigating a social situation automatically.

Just a tought of mine, please correct me if I'm wrong:

That's the whole point of this exercise. What socially adept people do is to assess a situation very quickly and unconscious while socially inept people lack these unconscious guidelines and therefore try to gain "conscious control" of the situation which badly backfires due to the complexity of human-human interaction. 

But there are some common traits in human interactions and there are people who trained themself to see and to proccess them in a controlled way without totally relaying on their empathy and once you've memorized enough of this common traits deeply enough that you develop a "natural" automatism you should be able to free ressources for the real conversation. 

You are either born with instincts or you train them - and the same way you can "untrain" them. If it works in martial arts/sports (e.g. controlling your blinking if a fast object comes towards you) it should also work with social interactions. 


Dunno,- I never invested the time/money to try it out,- it is just an idea of mine. Oh, you radiologists.  You caveat those reports a lot more than that.
 In my view, patients need to be aware that their health is only one of the factors medical practitioners take into consideration when suggesting therapy, treatment, drugs, or surgery. As well, a patient's health is not necessarily the top priority for many medical practitioners or health-based corporations. This is also why I have had to pound into customers heads who want a UVB requiring reptile that "NO YOU CANNOT JUST SET THEM BY THE DANG WINDOW!"  but too many people just don't understand that all UV is not the same and that yes light can get through windows but not the full spectrum (UVB being one of these.)

Can you believe I had a doctor tell me that I could get my baby sufficient UVB by holding him next to a sunny window?  I was like (in my head, IRL I just gave her a "you are such a dumbass" look) "BITCH DON'T EVEN TRY TO TELL ME YOU ARE DUMBER THAN MOST OF MY REPTILE CUSTOMERS?!"

*sigh* and sometimes doctors wonder why patients don't trust them :/ That's a hard one, I have the same problem unfortunately. Maybe read something and focus on the story as you fall asleep.  Miracles are just a lack of knowledge. Probably. Popliteal is more in the back of the knee so it could be either depending on location.  Just because you are HIV positive does not mean you stop dating.. wtf.

How dare two consenting adults with HIV get to know each other. HOW DARE THEY! So my college years were not a total waste.   Got you labeled as "Fucking Idiot".

Yup, definitely accurate. This isn't ELI5. I should imagine that chronic stress is associated with increased risk of just about every illness... Plus water is incompressible and air is not. So airplane-like speeds are pretty much out of the question. That's kind of the point of using condoms.. Not using any kind of STD protection while having random sex is just asking for problems. In litigious America, doctors have to cover their ass. A lot of the bill you pay to them goes to pay their liability insurance premiums.  You lost me at lifestyle  &gt; I cannot find a single case report or paper showing a ct scan directly causing any type of cancer.

You can't ever prove causality 20 years down the line from a scan vs background radiation or the patient's other risk factors, so this isn't surprising.

Most CT abdomens are probably 10-20msv now. Maybe it'll keep improving in the future, but for the time being it is what it is. In terms of risk, obviously it's near impossible to see which specific small radiation exposure instance "caused" a cancer down the line, especially with smaller and smaller radiation doses. The linear/cumulative models were based on Japanese A-bomb survivors, and IIRC they were still able to show definitive small risk increases for people far enough away to be exposed to radiation small enough to be in the low msv range, so it seems reasonably comparable to a similarly-dosed one-time CT exposure. 2% (1 in 50) is clearly way too high, but most professional societies seem to have settled on ballpark numbers in the 1 in 500-5000 range for a single 10-20msv exposure.

Anyhow, I agree that a lot of this is theoretical and extrapolated. I also agree that most scans are reasonably well justified for the reasons you give, and I've never not ordered a scan because I decided it wasn't worth the radiation, but still something worth keeping in mind. Or wait, maybe I should start with a question first: 

How strongly is your conversation skill hampered by your emotions? (E.g. if talking with a neonazi, a jew, a muslim, a gypsie, a indian, a homeless, a fat, a thin, a colored, a white - whatever your prejudices are..)

I always had the idea that the ideal "open" human is someone who is capeable of talking with every person he mets and adopting to everyone very fast. In my sweet little theory people who start being inept at warm/hot reading could be in fact those people who can train themself faster to a near perfect mimikri of their conversational "opponent" because they are not hindered by their heuristic unconscious model.
 "High quality" chipboard. I personally like the ones where they include a probability paragraph with their reports. 

"Cannot exclude: less than 5%; cannot rule out: 5-10%; ...(I forgot the rest of the paragraph but it was hilarious to read -- perhaps the user above knows about this? If I recall correctly, it was in regards to an infiltrate on a chest x-ray) I guarantee the majority are male gays spreading disease as usual.  How can you demonize children for something they have no control over?  &gt;This is nonsense. Medical malpractice cases are 100% based upon the facts (medical records) of each particular case. 

Which is why lawyers never make emotional appeals in court. 

&gt;The American legal system is the greatest civil justice system ever allowed to exist on this planet.

That is a disgusting lie. 

&gt;What is the alternative you so wish to exist?

A non-jury trial system. 

&gt;Your suggestion of a "specialized medical judgment board" already exists in each and every state. In Ohio, it is called the State Medical Board. It is tasked with deciding which doctors are accredited and permitted to practice medicine in the state. 

...Which isn't what my suggestion was about, obviously.  Having done medical board defenses for doctors in Florida, you've pretty much hit the nail on the head. Those doctors who have gotten in trouble as a result of performing procedures have typically gotten in trouble for not running enough tests to make sure the patient was recovering well, or for not running enough tests to make sure that otherwise typical signs of recovery discomfort weren't other issues i.e. negative drug reactions that result in dialysis because the doctor didn't run one test or another at the first sign of trouble and because they waited the patient had to have dialysis and ended up with a damaged set of kidneys.


 Give yourself hypertension and possibly avoid cancer. 4 Cups? Is that because the body doesn't have energy for melanoma because it never sleeps? This is a fair comment, but I stand by the claim that you can see it in the statistics. Your point, to me, just means you have to be very careful about how you gather and interpret the statistics. I don't mean to imply that doctors should be sued or dismissed solely because their mortality rates are three percentage points above the average or something. The risk of a patient is also something that can be assessed (obviously - otherwise the doctors could not act to take less risky ones) and should be taken into account.

This has got to be better than malpractice suits, which are often just a data-point of one, unless there is clear evidence of what I'd call actual malpractice. People sue when things go wrong, so the doctors are putting more effort on avoiding things going wrong. Is that a bad thing? Give thanks to our idiotic civil litigation system.  You're right....  Those children deserve to get sick and possibly die because their parents are ignorant morons... If you are old enough to speak you should be able to keep track and manage your own medical decisions. You sir, are an idiot.  That article comes off as almost blaming craigslist and not idiots. title is shit,as always You're right....  Those children deserve to get sick and possibly die because their parents are ignorant morons... If you are old enough to speak you should be able to keep track and manage your own medical decisions. You sir, are an idiot.  "There are limited data on the potential association of adherence to Mediterranean diet (MeD) with incident stroke."

seriously? I'm fairly sure that it has been well known for many years now that Mediterranean diet has a lower incidence of MI and stroke. Its great to have even MORE evidence, but this is nothing new. the tests are only necessary b/c of the possibility of malpractice litigation which generally only benefits the lawyers - not the patients or the doctors.  it also drives healthcare costs through the roof - which we pay for.  lastly defensive medicine is a waste of time which delays providing medical services to people who need medical services.   Four cups:  no problem.  i use it as an antidepressant here in Seattle.  We seriously need it up here. So if I consume like, 16 cups a day, I'll neverget any cancer at all? Did people not learn from the astounding failure of Fleischmann and Pons? I would have a heart attack from all the caffeine. Reminds me of the time when AOL released their search data to the public. While there was no IP or location tied to the searches, it was still possible to idenitify who the person was. 

Occasionally it would be obvious (he/she searched for their name with the city and state they are in) and some would require some digging.  Maybe I'm weird but I'm totally ok with additional tests.  What's an extra $10k in medical tests when I'm already paying $100k+ for fucking brain surgery? I would be broke either way.  What's the formal definition of mediterranean diet? I think there is a huge difference between ordering necessary tests and bland order sets.  If you are concerned about someone's potassium, you don't need to order a chem 12.   Worried about an infection?   Consider a white count, not a cbc.

The difference in cost can be anywhere from ten to a thousand fold.

And,  emergency physicians thinking they need to do a metastatic disease workup in the ED. ...?  That kind of shit can be done outpatient.  



 Brain MRIs use gadolinium and CT scans use contrast that has iodine since it is able to absorb radiation. This article is just a smear campaign against CL.  But did they factor in that a new chuck e cheese opened at the same time Craigslist  did? OH NO REDDIT, NOW WE GOTTA GET RID OF CRAIGSLIST!  

BUT AFTER WE KILL THE ANTIVAXERS AMIRITE! This is why troponins are drawn q8 hours. But still the calls ' the first troponin was negative, can we discharge the patient?'  Sigh. Ha, no its a metaphor, you can use anything you want. You wake up with 20 X's of energy and everything you do takes one X away.  I had my gall bladder removed a couple years ago.  Four days later, I had a bile leak associated with it. That was some painful shit, and doctor friends told me I should sue.  Nope.  Without recklessness or scienter, that's part of having a great healthcare system.  Do i wish my medical bills didn't involve a night in the hospital and an extra procedure? Of course, but I have insurance and firmly believe that sometimes shit happens.  Just because it may be more likely than not that the complication occurred due to negligence, doesn't mean a lawsuit is necessary. It's very clear and has been talked about by doctors, you know the people who know, how much their fear of lawsuits adds cost to the system.  This strikes me as obvious because Craigslist enables people to contact each other for sex, *and there is not one person alive that **wants** to use a condom.* That's a very conspicuous elipse. Everyone knows that Craigslist is for more than just sex, but we're not talking g about buying and selling bicycles here.  No. Loose people who don't know how to practice safe sex increase local HIV transmission rates. http://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mediterranean_diet This is known as an 'incidentaloma' - an incidental finding on advanced imaging that no one knows what the hell we should be doing about. 

You could imagine that probably if this tumor were significant, you would have developed corresponding symptoms of mass effect in the brain. Then you'd have had the workup. If it weren't significant you'd never know about it, the system would have saved itself thousands, and you would have a few more ccs of spinal fluid left.  &gt;[We] need to correct for a few factors like occupation.

Don't we always? This sub usually utterly fails to realize that: *'A study has found a correlation between x and y'* is not the same fucking thing as: *'x causes y, and that is the truth'*.  Except many of these CL encounters are not piv. Transmission rates for other types of intercourse are much higher. This is disappointing, but absolutely no surprise.  Careless people are vulnerable to predators.  Sometimes they then become predators. My late husband had a seizure (full body) that the neurologist said was likely just an anomaly and likely just due to aging BUT wanted to do a follow-up MRI. Surprise! Massive glioblastoma in his temporal lobe, extremely aggressive and resistant to chemo and radiation. He died three month later. I agree that when it comes to the brain, be defensive.

On a side note, a year later, they found a small benign brain tumor in my brain. They are monitoring it regularly and yes, I want those defensive tests. Yeah, talking can be very much of a chore , especially regarding depression. If you have the opportunity, go see a psychologist, and see if that works for you. It didn't for me, because I in no way wanted to talk, or explain what I was going through, but it does for a lot of people. 

Knowing that the person sitting in front of you knows, professionally, that you're sick, and not faking it, can make a huge difference.

But most of all, just take care of yourself. Do whatever you need to do to make that happen, and don't feel guilty about being sick.  Undetectable just means that your viral load is below 20 copies per ml, but it does also mean that transmission risk is *greatly* lowered 

[Here's some info] (http://www.catie.ca/en/catienews/2014-04-10/insight-hiv-transmission-risk-when-viral-load-undetectable-and-no-condom-used) about a great study underway.

It's about serodiscordant couples who have unprotected sex, the the positive partner being on meds, and the negative partner *not* being on PrEP (prophylactic medication).

If you choose to read it, please read it thoroughly.

If you don't feel like reading: 1110 couples were enrolled in the study, some gay, some straight. Each couple has one positive individual on ART, the other is not taking preventative medicine, and they admittedly have unprotected sex.
After the first 2 years of the study, the only people who did contract the virus got it from outside the relationship. They were able to determine their infection wasn't from the partner by doing a genotype test.

The determined risk range for receptive anal sex (negative bottom with undetectable top), which is known to carry the highest risk, is 0%-0.05%. 

&gt;Given the number of receptive anal sex acts that occurred and the fact that no HIV infections were observed, it is extremely likely that the true risk is somewhere between 0% and 0.05%, and extremely unlikely that it is above 0.05%. Although it is still possible that the true risk is zero, or only slightly higher than zero, the researchers could not rule out the possibility that the risk is as high as 0.05%. A lot of symptoms, the way I understand it, are like a check engine light. It can tell you that something is wrong, but you still need diagnostics and troubleshooting to figure out exactly what and why. Sounds like they used [MedDietScore](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/MedDietScore) to evaluate adherence to the Mediterranean diet. &gt;The traditional Mediterranean diet (MeD) is a dietary pattern
characterized by high consumption of plant foods, high
intake of olive oil as principal source of monounsaturated fat,
low intake of saturated fat with limited consumption of meat and
dairy products, and moderate intake of fish and alcohol. My wife was recently diagnosed with generalized epilepsy at age 25. She had a perfectly classic tonic-clonic seizure in front of me. Naturally I'm shaken pretty badly having had zero experience with seizures (the part where she stopped breathing and turned blue for uninformed me was "not fun").

And even with that, ER docs were very unsure of what was happening because they didn't know how to prompt me. The symptoms were there, but I was still in some degree of shock so I couldn't explain stuff right.

Even clear cut stuff like a "classic seizure" can be hard to diagnose when you've got scared and shocked people replying to your questions. You have to cover yourself, when the referrals are as poor as they sometimes are!  Many people are asking why this "defensive medicine" isn't standard practice because it seems to be better. Truth is in general it violates the  two core medical principals of justice and non-malfecience. 

Non-malfecience essentially means do no harm. Nearly every test poses some risk. Imaging tests like CT expose patients to massice amounts of radiation. Diagnostic procedures like lumbar punctures can lead to infections. If a procedure/test wants to be done its risk needs to be compared relative to the risk of the possibility of missing something. 

The core medical tenant of Justice is a tricky one especially for Americans. It essentially says there is a finite amount of resources in the world and physicians should try to figure out how to make the most of it. If someone comes in with a headache that is a 0.1% of being serious gets an expensive CT, that means there is 200 people don't get their blood pressure medicine. 

It's complicated but most docs especially newer ones don't care about minimizing resources so they practice "CYA" medicine which means cover your ass. The reason doctors go to medschool is learn enough to formulate a differential from a history and physical exam. Some docs don't even see the patient before they order every blood test and imaging test which adds economic burden to the patient. That's why you see reddit posts about people going bankrupt for medical expenses. 

That being said tests/procedures are great if helping form a diagnosis /therapy but they shouldnt just be done to protect you from a lawsuit Haha, thank you! I just wanted to be honest in that I was almost in ball park age! You are a kind stranger indeed. The majority of calories should be coming from whole grains.  When a doctor suspects malpractice in another doctor thst treated their patient they will not say anything to that patient. Even when the malpractice clear.

They'd rather keep their patients in the dark rather than tell them their honest opinion because they may have to testify against another doctor.

 Also I've seen your line about hindsight from malpractice defense attorneys in physician trade magazines. They've done a great job of training you guys to develop doctors own "thin blue line" at the expense of giving their patients their honest opinion.  And what stops every doctor from doing this for every surgery ever? What stops every company from having a liability/warranty clause that says "you can't sue me for anything bad that happens when using my product or retaining my services regardless of anything because bad outcomes are an inherent risk to being alive"

That certainly would end all tort cases pretty damned quick.  Even faster than the binding arbitration bull shit they already push.  Thankfully it's not so easy (yet) to sign away a company's or individual's duty to not kill, maim and otherwise seriously harm  you when providing services or products.   What I remember reading is that outdoor workers have higher incidence of non-melanoma skin cancers (related to cumulative sun exposure) and indoor workers have the same or higher incidence of melanoma (related to intermittent sun exposure). There are some types melanomas that are related to cumulative sun exposure, but for outdoor workers their skin builds up a tan which is protective from sunburn, a big risk factor for melanoma. Also, indoor tanning and tropical vacations where you can easily get sunburned are other big risk factors, which could be associated with indoor workers because of indoor workers are probably more likely to be able to afford those things. So is putting on sunscreen, albeit without the sweating, jitters, and paranoia. I have a bridge for sale. Care to buy it cheap?

Here's a clue: After the A-bomb was dropped on Japan, there was a great fear of having nuclear secrets stolen by spies. But physicists knew that there was only one real secret -- that the bomb was possible.

No on who has a real secret in science can keep it. As you say, anyone can replicate it. So saying it is possible gives away any commercial value it might have. The first person to apply for a patent owns it. The discoverer gets nothing. Check out the new patent laws.

So it is a scam or a delusion. This is a common practice in healthcare in general. In mynold company they do around a dozen or more extra tests for cataract surgery because of their volume and fear for malpractice lawsuits. That was explained to me about 5 years ago which made perfect sense. Our pretesting could an entire afrernoon shift for crying out loud. But one of the many reasons why healthcare costs is high is because of malpractice suits. And many of those are fraudulent anyway.  Agree with all of that. Just have not seen anything yet in the literature to reflect this issue, but have seen the list of hospitals getting paid less this year for increased complication rates (plus the other criteria set out under the ACA) 
I see this as a good thing. Lawyers practice the same way: we can't cut corners or make assumptions, because there is no one to clean up our mess, and matters aren't always black and white. 

I imagine it's a lot more stressful on doctors though. If a lawyer screws up, we have insurance and nobody dies. If a doctor screws up, well... 6oz, 8oz, or "American" size coffee?  I typically drink 12 oz "cups". A lot of coffee makers (and per instructions on store bought coffee) consider 6oz one cup.  Of course 8oz is the definition of a cup. This is what's wrong with the U.S. Healthcare system. We dont need Universal Healthcare, we need Cartels like the American Medical Association to be abolished and we need to take lawyers out of the operating rooms Nobody is saying it's impossible and if they are then they're idiots. But people are going to have sex, regardless of any kind of abstinence education, and they should know that condoms offer a great boon to protecting them against disease and infection, especially HIV. The main problem with your argument is that the majority of melanomas aren't caused by cumulative sun exposure, but they are caused by strong intermittent sun exposure (bad sunburns, indoor tanning, tropical vacations).  

Office jobs are actually associated with the same or slightly increased risk of melanoma. The reasoning suggested is that these people go out on weekends and get sunburned, go indoor tanning, and go on tropical vacations more often.

Also, just as an interesting FYI since you talked about location and UV exposure, the highest rates of melanoma in the USA are New England and the Pacific Northwest http://www.cdc.gov/cancer/skin/statistics/state.htm. Some of this can be attributed to the skin color of people who live there, but I highly doubt all of it can. My first response to this is, 'good'. Aside from cost, what's the downside?  Suggested daily according to Wikipedia...

6-12 servings of fruit and vegetables.

4-6 servings of grain products.

So while not majority, I should have included grain.
 Besides your obviou axe to grind against lawyers and civil juries, the system they set up for vaccination injuries (iirc it was described in an Atul Gawande article) makes a lot of sense to apply to malpractice generally.  I don't know about that, I've talked to depressed people and they don't seem to have a problem with basic necessities (going to the bathroom, eating, showering, going to work if they're employed), but when it comes to consciously deciding whether they should do something optional (go to the gym, go for a walk, visit a friend, go out for a beer) that's where they feel limited. 

The advice above is saying to do those basic necessities, shower, put your clothes on, put your wallet in your pocket, put your shoes on, and then decide if you want to do the optional activity (go for a walk) and I can certainly see how this strategy has merit - it may not work for all people but I wouldn't immediately dismiss it either. Disagree, I've been with plenty of surgeons who have told patients they were mismanaged or they would have performed a different initial surgery. It's extremely easy once again to practice medicine in hindsight when everything is settled, a lot of times Dr.s don't tell patients they were mismanaged because in fact they weren't, medicine isn't an algorithmic process and there is a lot of reasons why complications or treatment issues occur and their isn't always a clear cut path for treatment, hell there are a lot of treatments that are standard of care simply because it's the only case study that has been published and or no one else has developed a different regimen or surgical approach. I will admit I have seen a lot of garbage medicine practiced by physicians who are lazy, but I have to check myself because I am not there for the initial, history and physical so I don't know exactly their thought process. That's a slippery slope, there are plenty of times if it is outright harm that a dr will let a patient know. We don't collude together if someon is harming patients like some lawyers try to imply. It is simply a more complicated issue then can be explained  easily without having had the experience of treating patients and seeing how medicine is practiced. Melanoma is a cancer of a specific set of skin cells called melanocytes. The normal function of these melanocytes is to produce a protein melanin. Melanin has several functions but mostly is there to protect cells from damage by UV radiation and other harmful chemicals like oxygen species and free radicals.
Summary 1: melanin -&gt; more protection -&gt; less cell damage

cAMP (or cyclic AMP) is a signalling molecule which regulates the activity of process that occur in the cell. One of the processes it regulates is the amount of melanin (the key protein) produced in the melanocytes.
Summary 2: more cAMP -&gt; more melanin (-&gt; less damage).

The levels of cAMP is regulated, in part, by an enzyme called phosphodiesterase. Phosphodiesterase breaks down cAMP leading to reduced levels of cAMP in the cell.
Summary 3: more phosphodiesterase -&gt; less cAMP -&gt; less melanin -&gt; more damage

Coffee contains an ingredient which reduces the activity of phosphodiesterase. This in turn leads to more cAMP, and eventually to less damage occurring in the cell.
Summary 4: Coffee -&gt; less phosphodiesterase -&gt; more cAMP -&gt; more melanin -&gt; less damage.

That's at least the theory, whether all of these steps are as simple as proposed and whether this translates into a measurable benefit, who knows.

 Six. Their lifestyle has nothing to do with it.  Why they are gay or straight, or the views on being gay or straight, are irrelevant to this discussion.  This isn't meant to be a commentary on gay people, but simply an acknowledgement of the statistics surrounding HIV rates.   Lets say there is a test for diagnosing cancer that costs $100 and is 98% accurate. There is another test that is 99% accurate, but costs thousands of dollars. Is it worth it  to pay for the extra more expensive test? Whats the cut-off to say something is unnecessary? 
 &gt; a defib 'restarting' a heart

Damn, I really didn't know about that. More info [here](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Defibrillation#In_popular_culture) for those that don't know. I know this sounds extremely bad and totally controlling of people's lives; but I feel if you are diagnosed with something incurable and fatal (HIV) you should have to have it stated somewhere on your documents that that is the case, or be required to wear something. It's really quite unfortunate these diseases are allowed to proliferate simply by someone being knowingly infected and not caring if they spread it because it would impact their lives in a way they don't want. I'm not suggesting quarantine, but I wish that was an option. Shouldn't have to live in fear of accidentally brushing against an infected syringe/nail/anything that can allow hypodermic penetration. Thank you! No, CT contrast is iodinated based, MRI contast is gadolinium based.  Different profiles all together. Gado is pretty safe. I thought "Clinical Laboratory Scientists" were "the lab"? I see CLS on the name tags No it isn't, a lot of men seeking men use CL. Nothing to do with smear. I am lucky to work with such innovative physicians with offices in the Charlotte and Greensboro areas of NC. They are constantly striving to better the health of our patients with new technology, and this is an awesome example. I very excited to post about this here! He/she sounds like a wonderful person to be around. I agree, but definitely feel radiation is propped up as a straw man argument against ct's when in fact it is based off of theoretical risk not something observed in the literature. Indiscriminate ordering of CTs (definitely a problem) is not a good idea or good patient care, I just feel that radiation should be far down on the concern list when it comes to the decision of whether or not to order the exam.  Whores Probably cultural. In the US when something bad happens (car accident, slip &amp; fall, etc) someone you tell is going to encourage you to sue. It's ingrained into people to get money at any turn, no matter how tenuous fault is. Thank you kind sir for understanding.  Those of us out in the trenches will continue to correlate clinically  Undetectable means they have HIV but the viral load can't be measured using standard blood test, This usually means they are on medication for it. 

Poz friendly means you are willing to sleep with hiv positive people. It's wrong in the sense that sometimes things go wrong that aren't the fault of the doctor.  Examples of this include adverse reactions to medications, random heart attacks during surgery that aren't due to the procedure,  post op wound infections, etc.   It can also include poultry:

&gt;Meat and Alternatives: Mediterranean Diet provides 1-2 servings of poultry, fish and shellfish per day (Canada Food Guide recommends 2-3) This does not satisfy the Canada Food Guid

Italians rarely had beef, poultry or pork, however, until around the turn of the 20th century, after many of them immigrated to the US. So, you can differentiate between the *traditional* and *modern* Mediterranean diet.  What does that have to do with anything? What about the emergence of online "rate your doctor" websites.  Imagine Yelp for doctors.  Patient not happy? get a bad review.  So you are almost forced to do anything and everything for the patient to prevent that.  A good majority of the negative reviews are just from laypersons not understanding how medicine is practiced.  New CMS rules (center for medicade and medicare services) is going to start reimbursing you based on your reviews. Thats not good. But, how they can control it? Yep. I saw a 32 year old with anginal chest pain. Mild, mild trop leak (barely abnormal and could have easily been blown off by many ED). Ended up getting admitted, had normal Ekg, normal echocardiogram. We could have stopped there, but didn't. Stress echo was wildy abnormal. Pt had a large myocardial bridge which only manifested with increased HR. This could have easily led to a fatal arrhythmia and patient's death if not identified. Rare things are seen.

No test is perfect, things can always be missed. The question is how much money we as a society want to devote towards healthcare. Perfection is not attainable and the slope of the line that reaches it (or fails to) quickly becomes asymptotic. 

At the moment providers are encouraged to not think about the cost of a given test "too much" (which is probably a good thing). The downside is that the threshold for ordering said hypothetical test gets lowered. If the provider is 99% sure the test will be negative, it won't get ordered. But what if they're 95% sure? 70%?
    Remember 70% means that the provider is okay taking a 3 in 10 chance that a potentially dire condition is missed. I promise that hypothetical provider will see lot more than 10 people with more or less the same story in a given year. 95% means thst provider is okay missing the hypothetical condtion 1 in 20 cases. 99% means they are okay to miss 1 in 100 of this hypothetical condition. The average PCP has an active patient pool of SEVERAL THOUSAND people. 

Dire conditions being missed is what leads to lawsuits. And so: defensive medicine.

The question is where you set the threshold. Those that say defensive medicine is bad are really just saying the threshold for ordering a given test should be higher than they currently believe it to be. They are probably right, and there is no question that this contributes to healthcare costs in this country. However, if we as a society said, "fuck it, no more crazy expenditures on the pentagon with their laser beams and nukes and random wars and and ..." we wouldn't have to have this conversation.

Ultimately it's a reflection of what we value as a society.

Okay getting down off soapbox. The transmission rate through unprotected anal sex is higher than through unprotected vaginal sex because the anal mucosal membrane tear more easily. This is probably a contributing factor to gays being more at risk from HIV. I think he meant to say that for casual sex, it's mostly used by gay men. Thanks, I knew a bit of the biology of cAMP but not of links to melanin production; It seems like your hypothesis could be testable where we use iPSC models of melanocytes and either over express or knockout the phosphodiesterase gene to see if that alters ability to form cancers. 

Another epidemiological study would be to examine if viagra is protective against melanoma. Viagra is a phosphodiesterase inhibitor (although the subtypes of phosdiesterase may not be the same), so would act as you propose for cancer. 

I'm always a bit cautious when as a field we start to talk about oxidative stress and antioxidant effects. I think it's kind of used as a catch all phrase in some regards for damage that we don't fully known what exactly is going on currently. Plus most of the evidence I've heard about from antioxidant pills suggests that they aren't beneficial as we would like and are possibly even positively harmful. Vast majority of physicians in the Unites States practice defensive medicine.   This is also a correct statement.   Neurosurgeon here. This encompasses all fields of medicine, not just my specialty. The vast majority of it is purely for cover-your-ass medicine. To give you two examples from just yesterday when I was on call:

A 72 year old lady comes in with a stroke and has some weakness on her left side. The stroke team does their work up and finds an aneurysm. It has nothing to do with the main reason she's in the hospital. Its tiny, and a completely incidental finding. She had no symptoms of an aneurysm like headaches, nausea or vomiting. Yet, the neurologists still called for a neurosurgery consult. 

Example two: 85 year old man with terminal lung cancer came to the hospital for just generalized weakness. They scan his head for some reason and find a tiny old bleed. Not only is the old man way too sick to tolerate a haircut, let alone surgery, the bleed is completely inconsequential. The ER immediately called a neurosurgery consult without even talking to the family. We then go down and do the consult and family says they dont even want surgery anyway.  Many patients do in fact look at their illness as a way to get rich or at least make some money.  The most likely to sue are those who are uneducated, poor, and black.  Look at Kings County Hospital, it sees 1/3 of the total malpractice suits brought against the New York City Health and Hospitals Corporation and the clear variable here is the patient population.  Sounds like relief. Without a condom doesn't equal 100% transmission so you're wrong  Love it. It might not be very much energy but when you have many of them or other types of generators then it can significantly add up! I think King Justian has some good points, it is generally sun burn that I understand confers the risk. It's probably also important in the studies comparing outdoor and indoor workers to account for their background health. Outdoor workers may be more likely to be fit and active, thus having better general health, lower BP, better cardiovascular fitness than their indoor counterparts, possibly due to a fact of their job being probably more physically demanding. Controlling for this may well be important and may again see that the association disappears. 
While it's true vitamin D is associated with some conditions, most notably multiple sclerosis, however I'd be interested to the see the evidence linking vitamin D to melanoma that's not confounded by UV exposure.  He's bitter that women on the internet don't want to fuck him. That would be funny. "Brain decides such a pitiful existence is not worth living and induces a stroke". Your compassion is admirable. I have no animosity against these children, but the are disease vectors and they endanger the vaccinated and those who cannot medically be vaccinated. Why don't you ask the mother whose infant died from whooping cough if she considers my view demonizing or if she agrees with me that keeping them out of public interactions is  public health measure? It's a shame he's a jerk yeah. if you drink a bunch of coffee you are probably indoors, away from all the UV.   I am a physician, and I do believe the right to sue is important.  However, there does need to be reforms so patients don't look at surgery as an opportunity to become rich.  The burden of proof that the physician was negligent or incompetent needs to be very high, there needs to be a cap on damages, and there needs to be a financial risk to the plaintiff if he loses.  This will keep the people looking for an easy pay day away, and only people who were truly on the wrong side of malpractice will proceed.  Yes, their might be a few people who end up getting screwed, but these malpractice lawsuits are a massive drain on the healthcare system, and the majority will greatly benefit from malpractice reform.  It is something that would take many years to truly see the benefit from, though, because it is unlikely that physicians that have been practicing defensive medicine (consciously or unconsciously) would change overnight.   Gotta occasionally correlate when the indications/history are "evaluate lungs", "pain", and "assess stability" but I hope your radiologist isn't giving you that too much because it offers very little value. Good diet advice, not much meats huh  I'm well aware. I wouldn't have responded otherwise, because I wouldn't get it. 

I just don't like the "never try; doesn't work" attitude encouraged. Other people who have "missing gold fish" can become convinced that their "goldfish" are dead, so it's a bad trend to get into.  He's an arrogAnt prick  Spread the love. Consumers pay for those tests. It may be one or two steps down the line, but every test is ultimately paid for by individuals.  I guess my personal experience was different. I'm not the biggest fan of your profession generally, but I really value the patient/practitiona relationship wth doctors that I trust and have good bedside manner. 

It was incredibly frustrating to have none of my doctors even attempt to give me a reason why my result was dramatically worse than my prognosis. I probably wouldn't have sued if I felt they were honest with me. When I asked questions t felt like they were hiding something. 

I really only found out why there was a difference after I sued and paid an expert witness around 5,000 to look at my charts. And it turns out two doctors made some pretty big mistakes and didn't do stuff they should have given their own records of how I presented my symptoms. 

The lawsuit itself was nearly as traumatic as my injury, in some ways more so. But without it I would never have known what happened.  I can only imagine how bad Tinder is. Yay I might have a stroke in like 12 years! Tests are expensive and sometimes dangerous. You can't just try everything unless you want health care costs to become the entire economy. They're already something like 16% of the GDP.  I'm not depressed or surrounded by miserable people. Sorry to hear that you are. Best of luck fixing that, although it sounds like you already gave up. Grain has more calories per serving. &gt; It's a lot more like "Ms. Smith is showing a somewhat elevated blood pressure after her procedure, there could be a million different reasons for this but let's run some screening tests to at least rule out anything serious." 

Actually it's more like *"Ms. Smith is showing some symptoms of condition X... and while condition X is very pretty darned rare and unlikely (1:10,000 &lt; 0.01%), if it ends up she has it and she/family sue us for not having tested for it, the settlement could be in the millions... plus we can bill HER for the tests, so we reduce our liability, and at the same time increase our billings... sweeet."*

Which might be fine if it were only Ms. Smith we were talking about.  But it isn't... the same scenario is happening with 9,998 others who (like Ms. Smith) don't actually have the problem, and of course the ONE Ms. Jones who actually does -- a situation that is bad enough, in that those 9,999 additional tests are not exactly cheap (not to mention that Ms Jones is unlikely to live very long anyway, regardless of whether any intervention/treatment is performed... or not).

But that isn't the worst of it -- because since no "test" is ever going to be 100% accurate (100% sensitive AND 100% specific) -- this becomes a "Bayesian Probability" situation, and a lot of the Ms. Smiths (probably a dozen or more) are going to show up as "positive" on the test even though they don't really have the underlying problem that the test purportedly "identifies" -- and yet because of the *false* "positive" they will face further interventions, many of which will be rather risky, and in fact one or more of the dozen or so unfortunate Ms. Smiths will probably die as a result... all (purportedly) in order to  "save" the 1:10,000 Ms. Jones types -- *but in reality, the purpose is almost entirely to "cover the arse" of the medical industry (i.e. reduce the liability of the hospital, doctors, etc); which is why it is called 'defensive medicine'.*

&gt;It's not just about preserving your career, doctors don't want to see their patients die. When you're a doctor you cannot think "it won't happen to me", you have to think "what if it happens to me".

Oh gimme a break already with the faux-nobility. 

When you are a doctor, you probably *don't* really understand probabilities(and you dismiss those who do as "laymen" -- a rather revealing choice of words really because that is term with ecclesiastical history, previously used by a "priesthood").

Besides, if you did understand and practice according to probabilities, it would be a blow to your ego (the whole delusional grandiosity of "saving people" thing) ... not to mention taking a major hit on your billings.
 Its more likely the people who drink four cups of coffee a day have night jobs or work in offices and so are less exposed to the sun. :P That's not what I said. 80% effective at preventing transmission isn't 100% effective. There is still a chance.   

Condoms are good. They aren't perfect.  Man-on-man sex actually does involve a fair amount of smearing. Or so I hear. That's really good. Congratulations. This just in, high adherence to &lt;insert any reasonable diet&gt; is beneficial. That statement should surprise exactly 0 people. Thanks for the post!  Major, expensive, life style change drops incidents of already rare medical problem. The effects of DNA damage caused by UV-A and UV-B are different. And UV-A also causes melanoma by cumulative pathways as you mentioned. There is an interesting fact about this, in early times of sunscreen use they would only block UV-B which is also responsible for tanning and sunburn but it wouldnt block UVA. So in early 70's when sunscreen usage was highly encouraged there is a steep rise in the incidence of melanoma. Especially in Australia. It is thought that sunscreen usage increased sun exposure time of people by creating a false feeling of safety. So they were exposed to UVA much more than they did before. Which caused cumulative DNA damage and cancer.

Here is the full review about this if you're interested. http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC1694089/ This probably does not cut down on frivolous claims very much.  Sadly, it is very easy to find a physician who be an expert witness and say whatever he needs to to support the lawsuit.  Especially in neurosurgery, as there is very little consensus on many important issues due to lack of good literature in the field.  It is very difficult to perform randomized controlled trials in neurosurgery.

Also, many people don't realize that there are many subspecialties in neurosurgery.  Often in malpractice lawsuits, the plaintiff can find a neurosurgeon to support their claim even though he might have little to no experience for that particular case.  For example, if somebody is suing because of bad outcome after a transphenoidal pituitary resection the plaintiffs will hire a neurosurgeon as their expert witness.  However, that neurosurgeon might be primarily a spine surgeon and have no experience with pituitary surgery, but he will still be presented to the judge and jury as an expert.  They don't have knowledge base to understand why his expertise is questionable. Depends on the location. MLT and MT require a certification and usually give the results of tests. I am a CLS. I don't have a certification, so I can't report out results, but I do set up testing. &gt;surrounded by miserable people.

Yeah, you are. Some gay men like the barrbacking scene and the risks assocoated. The extreme is bug chasing.


 Sounds dangerous for marine life Remember, a cup of coffee is 6 oz.  So in the US, four cups of coffee is really just two "small" 12 oz. coffees. Fantastic work!  You must be so proud! I picked up a *very* nice bookcase with glass doors and lights for like 400 bucks. Totally worth it. 
  
Unfortunately a lot of posters don't realize just how much furniture depreciates.  That credenza that was $3000 new?  It's now worth 100 bucks. They still want 1500+ for it. 
  
There's a woman in my are whose had the same two end tables listed for literally four years. But what does the data really show?    A correlation between the number of daily personal ads on CL and new HIV cases?  There are lots of correlations in the world between two phenomena, but it doesn't mean that one is the cause of the other.  From 1999 to 2008, there is probably a correlation between the number of cars sold via online sites and the number of HIV cases; doesn't mean one resulted in the other. What exactly is the size of a "serving" &gt; I know this sounds extremely bad 
  
Yes. Yes it does. Ewww - Take a minute to look at the personal ads on your local craigslist or the nearest big city.

Gay guys that advertise on this site are fucking disgusting and ultra promiscuous. I believe this is true of most gay guys. Imagine if girls were as horny and as willing to fuck at the drop of a hat as most guys are. 

Now imagine how easy it easy for a gay guy to hook up and get fucked every single time he is around other gay guys. You don't really hear of lesbians having oral sex in bathroom stalls with someone they just met, or using glory holes or frequenting adult book stores and theaters.

Think I am just making this shit up out of bias? Go right now to your local CL or the nearest large city and compare the Men for Men ads to the Woman for Woman Or Man for Woman or Woman for Man ads. There is obviously a disgusting degenerate group out there, tell me which one it seems to be in your area.

The easier you make it for gay men to hook up the more diseases there will be. Then you have Bi men spreading it to woman who then spread it to straight men. Let's face it, the spread of the AIDS epidemic can easily be blamed on gay and Bi men in the United States, the stats speak for themselves.  What this article fails to mention that is it largely homosexual men who account for the spread of this disease.  love scientist's minds as much as painting. E. O Wilson had me paint him after he wrote Consilience, one of my favorite books. Just beginning his new one, The Meaning of Human Existence.

My portrait of him was recently moved from Harvard to the University of Alabama, his first Alma Mater http://www.saatchiart.com/art/Painting-Edward-O-Wilson/759994/2330222/view exactly! Lol, they should apologize?  You know you're on an anonymous forum right?  Also, those people weren't wrong.  It may not be 100% but condoms should have been used. The doctors chiming in aren't wrong, but they miss the point of the article. If a guy goes in to an American hospital for a broken arm and there is anything else wrong with him whatsoever that goes untreated, he sues the doctor, hospital, nurses, pharmacist, radiologist, and probably someone's dog. All those people have to advise their medical malpractice insurer of the claim and lawyer up, even if they weren't really involved in treatment.



If the claim is bullshit, it should get bounced out of court, right? Nope. In deciding whether to dismiss a claim, the judge must ask, "assuming everything the person bringing the suit says is true, does he have a case?" A lawyer who knowingly includes a false statement in a lawsuit will lose his law license, so there should be some protection from bullshit lawsuits there. Lots of states require plaintiffs to include, when their case is first filed, a certification from a doctor that says "I've looked at all the medical records, and it looks like the doctor, hospital, nurses, pharmacist, and their dogs screwed up." 



No matter how much that doctor is lying, there is zero consequence. And THERE'S the problem. Doctors get a whiff of the money they can make in a lawsuit, and they'll turn on each other in a minute. Other doctors know that, so of course they practice defensive medicine. If the doctors had something to lose when they supported bullshit lawsuits, you wouldn't see so many malpractice cases, so many multi-million dollar awards for bullshit pain and suffering claims, or so much defensive medicine and unnecessary tests. &gt;  Gay men and sex are a small portion of what Craigslist does.


and account for a large portion of HIV transmission
 This submission has been automatically removed. Please review the guidelines in the sidebar about the types of submissions that are appropriate for /r/science. If the video is scientific in nature, please feel free to post it to our sister subreddit /r/EverythingScience.

*[I am a bot](/r/AutoModerator/comments/q11pu/what_is_automoderator/), and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2Fscience) if you have any questions or concerns.* Good for him for not suing.  ERs are very busy places, with the physicians often having to balance many patients' care simultaneously.  Physicians are people, and they can make mistakes.  They did not purposely sew your dad's arm up without properly washing it out and think, "Fuck that guy.  I hope he loses his arm."  That is what many patients think.  They simply made a mistake, and deserved an opportunity to fix it. High blood pressure Rare? It's a top 5 leading cause of death. They actually do include pro-condom notifications in their casual encounter posts.

Now like I would know... &gt;_&gt; I'm terribly sorry to hear that. GBMs ain't fun, at all.

I hope you have a good support network. I find it's useful, even when I'm not feeling down, to try and attend sessions with my local brain tumour charity. &gt;  UV exposure at each place where people lived in July each year and averaged it for a 15 year block (1978-1993) and a 9 year block (1996-2005). Now then you can decide whether this is a good enough measure of individuals UV exposure for the previous 10.5 years in the follow up period. 

It is terrible is what it is, go ask them how many hours a day between say April and September they get in the sun, or even better nothing to do with sun exposure, how many hours a day they spend inside, more coffee is drunk by people who have more to do and therefore are constantly tired, these are people who aren't doing stuff outside in the sun, they are stuck in an office, or in their car, or in a factory, or whatever, what they aren't doing is sitting outside, maybe if they are lucky they get to for a 1/2 hour at lunch. 

Fact of the matter is, if coffee does relate to melanoma rates, then you could just control by peoples jobs and whether they are inside or outside, they don't see to have actually controlled for anything here, for all we know coffee drinkers are most likely to be middle class people and therefore more likely to have been exposed to medical advice to douse yourself in sun cream every time you as much as get close to a window.   It's also the reason the default response when you call your doctor with just a couple of these symptoms is 'go to the ER'.  The other day my wife was asked to triage a call and the person didn't feel like the symptoms warranted that trip (just wanted to make an appointment, was too busy with work, etc.), and she had to really go that extra mile to convince them to get some help.  A couple of days later she received a thank you card, call thanking her, etc., as this patient had a massive heart attack in the ER rather than at home and got the help they needed.  Some of it is liability (covered as soon as they tell you go to the ER), but when someone takes the extra time to really convince you to go, you better believe they're not doing it just for legal reasons or to preserve the bottom line. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MWmVA4wXT4M I guess that's a valid point. It's the same reason why I steal Ferraris when I see one - their owners probably really have good insurance that'll replace it, so no harm no foul, amirite? That's why you gotta stick to oral, safety first! Stolen things sold for drugs: Craigslist facilitates this.  

Why does this article imply the personal ads as the cause for increased transmission over the widespread ads for discretionary money for drugs via petty theft? 


 The tests in question are not performed for the safety of the patient.  That's the whole goddamn point of the article. Why would anyone complain about more tests?? Do people actually say "don't do that" when you explain you want to do some blood work? Serious question. Well I'm fuckin dead. 75% of them do. ... That's why they had controls.

Yes this is a correlational study but they did make an attempt to for illusory correlations. No, degenerative aging is, this is just the final nail, in a prebuilt coffin caused by the steady decline of aging. thunderf00t ftw Yes but they meant 80% more effective than without so it actually is closer to 100% than one thinks. Its like if without a condom is 15% and with is 80% more effective it's actually 95%  Is "choosing wisely" mostly to cut costs? Also, thanks for info above It's improving, yet 75% of neurosurgeons still feel the need to practice defensive medicine... You feel pretty comfortable calling other people names and wishing your brand of unhappiness on others, eh? Guess being depressed doesn't mean that you can't also be an asshole. Keep dreaming bro, and make sure that you don't walk or exercise either. I completely agree, it's quite bad. Did you see the press this thing got, it was ridiculous.  Thank you! I was fortunate that he liked my idea and made the time. It was for a museum show I was preparing about scientists and those committed to the environment, Habitats, Biophiles and Beasts A quick search (Very quick actually thanks to those straightforward titles) revealed some in vitro studies with melanoma xenografts showing anti-proliferative properties of Vit D but its not a very clear paper I guess [here](http://www.tandfonline.com/doi/full/10.4161/derm.25244#tabModule). Also [here](http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1047279709000167) is a literary review which has supporting and opposing evidences. 

I'm sure a deeper search would give better results.  And when it comes to litigation for malpractice you may be a dr. That has maybe never seen a 30 year old suffer a heart attack. But as Plaintiff's counsel I'm going to find a dr. who has seen it and would say it is is normal and prudent to check these things.  Before I read the article, I'm going to guess that most of this involves gay sex.  Because heterosexual prospects on craigslist for straight males seem to be pretty dismal.  I doubt straight guys are getting HIV from craigslist if they can't even find women there. High blood pressure caused by stress. My blood pressure goes down on the weekends or whenever I'm not at the office.  Great painting, but why the hell is it in /r/science?  All of God's creations are miracles. Even you (:  Actually I agree, but still the value in the study isn't to make a diet recommendation to the general public, it's the understanding we might gain about how diet affects cardiovascular health.

As much as we like to think we know, the science of food and diets is still kind of a crapshoot. But what if you sit on an infected bicycle seat? If women can get an STD from a toilet seat, then it seems reasonable that naked bike rides could spread HIV. Ugh, someone had said poz-friendly is about consenting adults with HIV getting together (2hrs ago) and deleted it while I was typing. Srsly, what are the chances? So I figured I'd clear that up here for others with the same misunderstanding:

"Positive" is an option. "Pos-friendly" is non-positive people that are ok with getting HIV. The majority of people in this category are actually trying to get HIV. In some circles it is cool I guess.

But yeah, it is pretty fucked up most of the time. I'm from Barcelona and recently moved to London. After almost a year here, I still can't believe the ammount of fatty stuff people eat here. Some examples that I still mind blow me but will probably seem normal to most of you:

- Frying with butter. Adding butter to soups and stuff. Adding butter to bread before eating it. Adding butter to roasts to make them "tase better". Jesus even cookies are made out of butter here.

- Red meat every single day. Most people have red meat once a day, if not twice. 

- Not cooking. People here seem to hate cooking. All supermarkets have enough precooked meals that you don't ever have to cook. The problem is, most of these are full of saturated fats and sugars. The ones I consider "acceptably healthy" are the ones that they brand as "healthy". No one buys the former.

- Salad dressing. Every once in a while, people will get a salad. Except they then go on to put "salad dressing" on it. The only time I had ever had that was when ordering salad at McDonalds, as a treat. 

What I mean is, I don't think it's so much about what Mediterranean diet makes you eat, but about what it doesn't make you eat. You can get a head injury wearing a helmet, you can get hurt in a car crash while wearing a seat belt. Instead of being a shitty smart-ass you can accept the fact that using protection lowers you chances than going at it haphazardly  No red meat? Where did you got those facts????

The mediterranean diet, in the diet followed by Portugal, Spain, France, Italy, Greece and one or other country near the sea.

As you may not know, the main meats in the countries are pork and lamb, followed by fish and cow. Mediterranean diet is so vegetarian that Portugal has a way to eat every part of the pork, and that is from the head to the tail.

France as a lot of incredible meat dishes, the most famous is beef bourguignon. Italy eat a lot of meat on those pepperoni pizza's, Spain is very well know by it's iberic pork and jamon, Greece has a lot of amazing lamb dishes.

This diet also includes lots of cheese, lots of fish and lots of wine. It's healthy for balancing meats with vegetables and grains, all three of them, not only one food group.

http://www.unesco.org/culture/ich/RL/00884  TIL im finna have a stroke any day now You may still not know what REALLY happened. The "expert witness" was a hired gun who labors under the assumption that, if they find that nothing wrong was done, they won't get any more phone calls from your lawyer to review charts. And no more $5000 checks. There are many cases with subtle nuances in care that can be made to sound like quackery to the untrained layman, even though most physicians (who AREN'T being paid $5,000) would consider it to be within the standard of care. This may still be the case with you.  This should be cross posted with r/geology! I wrote "best practices" to make it easier to understand for the layperson and wrote "/ standard of care". Let's not get all hung up on the terminology, the typical estimate is for 20% deviation from standard of care. In any case, my argument still stands. Of all of the people in this situation, the lawyers are the only ones that never provide any remedy to health care. 

Doctors are good.  Insurance companies do some good too.  Though I do agree they change too much at times.   But lawyers and lawsuits are the reason for much defensive care.  Full text [here](http://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/papers.cfm?abstract_id=2035585) Anyone else thinking "No shit?"? &gt; I'm gay and am exposed to the sexual culture which I think is extremely hypersexualized.

Yep and I wish we could discuss this more without people getting offended or whatever.   thanks! I am fortunate that he responded to my work..as I and zillions have to his Wow, my mother is one of the most negative people I know but she was in fantastic physical shape when she had her first TIA. Like working out with a trainer 3 times a week, healthy organic diet, low bmi but super unhappy as a human being (she was 63). 10 years later, almost to the day, she had a second TIA so her physical health wasn't as good and her attitude was even shittier. Always kind of felt like her personality had more to do with it than other factors but I've never seen anything to support this before. Not sure if you'd know about this but I'm just wondering; that .05% risk, is that the risk of transmission every time a couple has sex or for the overall span of the study? Yes, the article mentions they did tests to eliminate other causes; but it only cites 'increased testing' as an eliminated possibility.  I'd need to actually see the methodology of the study to see what they actually did to come to their conclusions.  The words used in this article are potentially misleading--"Craigslist's entry into a market results in a 15.9 percent increase in reported HIV cases...".  Saying something RESULTS in an increase in a disease is pretty definitive.  They also never make mention of other possible causes to the trend. it increases cost, increases the likelihood of an incidentaloma or other benign finding that then gets worked up. 

The reality is that we have a couple of good historical examples where the pendulum swung to far:
prostate cancer
breast cancer

We did too many tests, too many unnecessary biopsies and too many unnecessary surgeries.  "Fuck this shit, I'm out!" Hey! Stop that! Get out of here with your science and mechanistic pathways! This isn't that kind of thread!  #Saatchilyfe Hilarious! Well, cost is a huge issue. Chest X-rays are like pocket change, but CTs and especially MRIs are hella expensive. 

The other big issue I can think of offhand is overtreatment. If you put a random person into a CT scanner, the odds you'll find something are relatively high. The odds that what you find will ever cause an issue in that person are *really* low. But the thing that you've found necessitates follow-up. You don't *know* what it is. So maybe now you'll be getting a biopsy. Those aren't benign; I saw a patient on Friday who's bleeding into his retroperitoneum from a kidney biopsy. Or maybe you'll just be getting follow-up CTs in six months. Ionizing radiation is no bueno. 

Let's say you do a stress test for something that, eh, doesn't really sound like cardiac chest pain, but you're not super sure. Stress test is positive, the patient ends up going to the cath lab and getting a stent. Now they've undergone an expensive and somewhat risky procedure (e.g. infection, bleeding risk) and they're on chronic anticoagulation, all for a coronary artery lesion that may have never ever given them trouble in their life.

There's a risk-benefit analysis with every test or procedure.  How else do seizures manifest? This is news to me. Sure, but the abstract goes out of its way to mention sex workers here. I know it's a controlled study but I'd be curious to see projected versus realized new HIV infection rates in these areas for MSM layered over infection rates for sex workers. &gt; Pretty standard health economics paper

Economist here.  Can confirm, there are 100 of these published every year.  It's going to be impossible to prove hard causality given the facts involved, but just as it's useful to track flu via Google searches, it's interesting to look at the impact of increased casual sex availability in markets and it's impact on STD.   
  
 There's a lot of lonely individuals out there. I've looked at the personals on Craigslist and the news paper from time to time and it's disheartening how people will put themselves in harms way just to be loved or held if only for one night. This news is no real surprise. Just a guess....VA doctors? Nothing in your sentence is true. You won't get aids from a toilet seat or bike seat.  Yup.  My father died of malignant (secondary site) tumors that originated with colorectal cancer, and his doc diagnosed him with Chrons, not finding it for a good year plus.  That same doc put my grandfather in the hospital after suggesting he take a rather high dose of OTC pain meds on a regular basis for many months, resulting in him having terrible ulceration and ending up in the hospital with blood coming out of both ends of his gastrointestinal system.  Do I think this doc was 'reckless' or did this willfully?  Nope, I think he was just a bit bad at his job, and frankly didn't seem to care that much.  I've seen it in plenty of professions, and I've seen plenty of docs who sure as hell do care.  C'este la vie, doctors are people, too. Switzerland and Canada.. The one that actually did the diagnosis studied in Finland.  If everyone just assumed that there was a significant chance that having sex with someone you don't knuw well might carry the risk of catching HIV, and they responded by using condoms, then that would take care of the problem. It is basic personal resonsibility.. This is true, but the title is stated in such a way as to suggest that it is indeed a diet recommendation, when it is really just raw scientific data. "Time takes a big thing and makes it small." 

Applicable to more than just sand, don't you think?   Me too! Why?  Great post! I agree with your general assessment of the study, however your assumptions are wholly inaccurate.

Outside workers may, and probably often do, bring a thermos of coffee from home to work, negating both the availability and cost issues you've identified.labor data would support that assumption. The cost, in and of itself may be just as prohibitive to the office worker. There's an assumption that outdoors workers make less/hr than indoors workers and I don't believe  Also, outdoors workers may have lower incidences of melanoma (multiple studies linked in this thread).

It's more likely that the correlation comes from time of day being worked. Those at night, working graveyard shift probably (almost certainly) drink more coffee/day than those working during the dayshift. Those working graveyard are less likely to receive exposure to the sun than those working during the day - whether indoors our outdoors (UVA penetrates windows, after all). Wooosh Wow that's crazy, I've only met very capable Canadian doctors... Learning about non tonic-clonic seizures is like first year med school stuff  I feel this is very likely a part of it - which stems from lack of education. Also, something I've noticed is particularly common on the gay craigslist ads is straight guys looking to "experiment." Those straight men especially don't know the different risks of gay sex. They're probably more likely to assume they don't need a condom because to a straight man, they just think of them as preventing pregnancy. Except like you said, in the 80s/90s you saw an increase of comprehensive sex education classes including condom use and education on STD risks.

Now, you're lucky to get a halfway decent sex education course in schools because its not PC to show or talk about sex in many areas of the country.

So to attribute all this to craigslist is negligent at best since there are highly likely other reasons than "craigslist". Even if it was because of a platform that makes casual sexual encounters easier, they completely ignore other platforms that have been gaining more traction over the past decade like facebook, tinder, grinder, etc. Nobody is arguing that there aren't meritorious lawsuits. What is being argued is that the potential for being sued alters behavior - exactly the intended purpose - although not always in 'meritorious' ways. The  &lt;let's substitute a more accurate antonym for meritorious: dishonorable, reprehensible, shameful, deplorable, disgraceful, disreputable, blameworthy, ignoble, shabby, objectionable, regrettable, unacceptable, unworthy&gt; suits are a problem that can't be shoveled under the rug as an acceptable consequence of the meritorious. He never claimed they were perfect in the first place so your initial comment was out of place. ...and how many types of cancer is guzzling four cups of coffee associated with? I too wish we could discuss this more /u/master_dong without people getting offended and such. That's true. But are you also excusing the immorality of not disclosing your STDs to your sexual partners? This sentance really bugged me, "Health care practitioners and policymakers have to look more closely at online platforms to assess how its usage may facilitate the spread of HIV and STDs across the country."

Policymakers?  Are they going to police the internet now?  People should wear protection when having sex with strangers they meet at a bar or online.  I don't see how policy makers are going to make people wear condoms.  What about those smartphone apps geared towards helping people hook up?  Are they going to police those too.  

 They tried removing each part of the Mediterranean diet individually to try and isolate the largest benefactor.

It's by far and away the olive oil.  Qualification: must be fresh.  I guess the materials that give the benefit expire within ~18 months. It pretty much always means the overall span of the study. You know for certain that the study lasted for say, 3 months. You'd have to trust self-reporting for number of instances. And you don't know if they caught it after the first time they had sex or the 50th. I read this and thought "Republicans are going to die off earlier than I thought."

Snarky response aside, I've mentioned that before thought, being negative and hostile all the time can't be healthy.  People like Rush Limbaugh and other conservative talking heads have to have big health problems.   I've read symptoms are more than just "common cold" but more like the "worst flu ever" I find it funny that she said "Shrimp Poop". I have three kids, and I work all week with software developers. My blood pressure just goes ever higher. That makes sense, and could be the reason there are people out there that still say that sunscreen causes skin cancer even though modern ones don't. You call this science? I was expecting a link to csmonitor.com.  How many of these extra HIV cases are homosexual and how many heterosexual people?
 Our whole medical system is fucked and our fearless leader did very little to fix it. He just built a new entitlement on top of an already broken system. This is a perfect example of something that should have been addressed in the health care law, but wasn't due to politics. It's pathetic.  Looks like you just did, finna. Came here to propose this as a possible confounding variable. High-five!! That's because what she was doing was ineffective. Working out with a trainer wasn't going to do very much, and organic has been studied to death, and has never shown much in the way of health benefits. 

Had she been doing Cardio her whole life, like biking or running or anything else in that regard, she'd probably have been OK. Instead, by the time she focused on it, she couldn't do very much, so her fate was sealed.  I understand what you're asking, but you're misunderstanding the risk.

0.05% is not the risk per act, nor is it the overall risk for the entire study. 
It's the *upper limit* of the *possible* risk per act. This is why I recommend reading the article in it's entirety.

What that means is, every time a negative bottom has unprotected sex with an undetectable top, the risk could be 0%. 
It could be 0.01%. 
It could be 0.0002%.

It could be any number between 0% and 0.05%.
The point of giving the number 0.05% is just to demonstrate that the risk is definitely not above that number, and that the actual risk is absolutely lower than that number, if not zero.

 And you continue arguing for a profession that is the definition of quackery.  Jesus Christ, people are so addicted and obsessed with coffee you can probably find a study for any health issue claiming coffee helps prevent it...never mind the affects of caffeine.  
  
And don't even try saying "well there's decaf coffee!" Yeah and how many people site these studies as rationale for drinking 7 cups a day...or any coffee drinker for that matter, drink decaf. Almost none. A vast.majority of people drink it to tweak on caffeine just the way people drink alcohol to get drunk.  That was beautiful.  Coffee increases stomach acid production, have fun with your stomach ulcers. I just think of all the wives and girlfriends of the guys who experiment and call themselves"straight".

Part of the problem is that we have trouble seeing the complexity of human sexuality.
Men feel like they have to be termed as straight.

I'm a little queer and I think that many people are also.  What I don't like is not disclosing that information to your partner and potentially bringing something home to your wife or girlfriend.

Be queer, gay, straight..... but be honest. No I am not excusing that. But many have it, while thinking they don't and may unknowingly pass it on. The recipent of penetration is the boss. If they demand a condom, a condom is the only correct response. Since the recipient is most at risk of contracting HIV I am suggesting it is a personal responsibility that, if they shirk their duty to exercise it, they may bring onto themselves unecessary hardship. This goes quite counter to the mainstream argument that the top, or Hiv pos person bears full responsibility for passing it on. I say each party has some responsibility. I'm not sure this argument has ever won any court battles however as the common mantra is to demonize the pos person and completley ignore the fact that the partner failed to insist on a condom. Actually, it's people fucking each other without condoms that increases local HIV transmission rates, isn't it? Coffee isn't a painkiller.  All you have to do to avoid a stroke or heart disease is cut down on sugar and do intense Cardio. Start slow but build up. A biking class is a great start, but there are others. 

Start tomorrow, find something you'll stick with twice a week, and heart disease and stroke are not likely in your future, no matter how unhappy you are.  Damn anti vaccerslol. That's up there on this list of most stressful jobs. Sorry you have so much stress in your life from that. 

I have two kids myself that live at home, the third is married with two children. The most stressful part of that is the car ride to go visit the married one and the grandkids, but that's a mandatory visit with my parents. Different story, just as stressful as dealing with the customers from my job at times. It seems that the people downvoting me haven't had to live in a hospital for an extended period of time. I'm thankful for "defensive medicine" it's saved my life. Furthermore, I've been a victim of medical malpractice, but I never sued my surgeon...why? Because he's human. After 20+ surgeries myself, I'd petition that you have the experiences that I have and then tell me the objective truth in the matter. Team Strogghhaaagghhh ugh True. But still "if you know your body, you just know when it hits you" is one of the dumbest things I've heard in a very, very long time.  How things out of the doctors' control would make them more careful about the things that they can control? Okay then why don't you go read the study, until you do that you can't really nitpick the results by questionig their Methods  So they're being more careful. . . This is bad? /u/TrueDeceiver was downvoted for saying you can get HIV despite condom usage. I was defending him/her. That's absolutely true.  The site you link to is a gigantic advertisement.  It is not an impartial report of science info.

So, it's likely snake oil like most claims of this nature are.
 Thank you, I feel better now. I'd like to see how it reacts to water vapor condensation.  There's probably some "break off" size point for the growing water droplets. You'd have a point if the researchers only looked at a city or two, but if the results (yes, you can say that if one event is shown to follow another) are consistent across multiple cities over time, then you can begin to infer causality. The exception is if some third variable is causing both the increase in STDs as well as the introduction of Craigslist to a new market.  You do realize that HIV and AIDS are not the same thing, right? You can be HIV positive and be asymptomatic. This is the primary reason I can't wait for Watson and similar AIs to take over the job.

Humans are forgetful contentious creatures; computers, not so much. I'll risk a bug in the computer before risking the normal operating procedure of a human. Any lawsuit would have logs and risk graphs of the event faster than you could snap your fingers. That should eventually lead to increased diagnostic accuracy and vastly less legal costs for everyone (eventually, lawyers and "new things", you know how it goes). Don't people who drink a lot of coffee traditionally work indoor cubicle jobs with little sunlight?  Interesting. Didn't know about this score. The wikipedia page is not very specific as to how it is constructed. Googling did only result on paywalled sources. Expert witnesses with good reputations are more expensive than the ones who just tell you what you want to hear. The plaintiffs and defense attorneys know who those guys are and plan accordingly. 

Breach of duty of care was crystal clear in my case. The issue was proving that the breach of care caused the worse result, which is just an outright difficult thing to prove in all but the most egregious cases.  I don't disagree at all, I just want to note that it's not "being gay", but it's being on the receptive end of anal sex.

Though I wonder about my downvotes. not sure where the best place to have posted...what do you suggest? What's interesting is that time also takes small things and makes them big. Yes, I have an idea of what a Mediterranean diet is. I was asking for the exact definition the paper use (i.e. a quantifiable measure of the degree of adherence to the diet). I think /u/dirtyrogue response is right, they used MedDietScore. The link is broken.  Dear spammer please die in a fire Does the "Coulomb explosion" work with solid potassium/ sodium or just liquid! &gt; HIV-neutral

What does that mean?

And why don't they have a "Negative" option? We need to develop the "smart grid" fully before then.

We need to make sure that all the small producers that are hooked up to the grid can communicate efficiently in real time. We need to make sure that a producer that for some reason messes up with the electricity (bad voltage/phase) will be taken out immediately. Stuff like that.

It's promising though, because these seem like solvable problems. I guess I should stop buying the big bottles, either that or go through them more quickly.  I think Craig needs to respond to this... Amazing work. 

The growing use of femtosecond lasers are allowing for some great texturing of materials at smaller and smaller scales. This is not a new metal per se, but it's surface engineering using optical manipulation and ablation of the material. 

It would be great to see this applied to a range of other materials as well as see texturing of materials mimicking other naturally occurring surfaces. So you are saying some day I may be able to pledge allegiance to my energy?!


America. Yeah, the commentary about the study that I heard on NPR suggested smaller bottles for that reason.

They also said you can taste that compound in fresher olive oil in the back of your mouth if you sample it straight up.  It's sharper when fresher. So not pizza and spaghetti? :( We killed it.  YouTube mirror: http://youtu.be/VkrQ9QuKprE I'm flabbergasted.  No shit... Sometimes when you think you are being rudely ignored by people, they are actually having very minor seizures.

I have no idea how common it is, due to common misdiagnoses (and sometimes people are just space cases).

Source: GF is epileptic and we are too poor for legal medications. It's my job to notice her seizures and keep her alive. someone has to break the news to the ninja turtles &gt; Working out with a trainer wasn't going to do very much

Uhh... How is working out with a trainer any worse than any other exercise?  It's based on Ancel Key's observations of how the Mediterraneans ate back in the 70s. You're supposed to have only slight red meat. Although to be honest it's all basically in line with mainstream nutrition recommendations.  The study's from a business school and it was published in a journal for "Management Information Systems."  So, wouldn't it's field more properly be Social Sciences?  Calling it Epidemiology makes it sound like it was an epidemiological study. I'm not terribly excited for all the unpredictable impacts of climate change.  /r/Art Shouldn't this be titled "Introduction of Craigslist to a new market increases local HIV transmission rates due to lack of responsible sexual relations"? I believe it. Those huge bottles are nice for not having to pick it up a lot, but it seems to have a shelf life. Thanks for the info.  Well, you do have to actually do it, not just listen to me talk about it. ;-)  I guess melanoma cells get coffee shits, too. I was actually thinking about the state of mind and health as I sit in the hospital car park waiting on a ct scan. If stress can cause a stroke can the power of positive thinking actually be healing? 
 I too have ADHD and there is actually a term, explanation and a set of practical solutions to this limited spoon problem, specific to those with ADHD. Here is a link to Dr. Russell Barkley who explains that ADHD people have a smaller fuel tank than everyone else and that there are various ways to refill it. I highly recommend you take a look: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_tpB-B8BXk0  You make a compelling point.  
A good health care system needs to balance patient health and public health. 
Isn't the system as it stands now geared toward patient health, for which health insurance companies receive payment, rather then good public health?
   Pasta is a traditional italian food. Remember glucose is the currency of energy in all lifeforms.  I think the coolest thing about sand is that there are more individual sands than there are atoms in the universe.

Pretty freaky when you think about it.  &gt; That's how it read to me, which is why it's stupid to stop taking any prescribed medication without talking to a doctor, not to mention that he stopped taking it because of an allergic reaction and didn't tell the doctor.

It's not always easy getting to the Doctor. Around my neck of the jungle, our doctors mostly defer to patient requests as we have better working knowledge of our micro-ecosystem (tropical island) than they do (very few of our doctors are locals).

If you walk in to the clinic and say "listeria" you will be walking out with a script for antibiotics before any blood tests are done. We are very much on our own out here. Practically the blind leading the blind. That's my criticsm-- that the article glossed over a lot of important details, which makes it impossible to see where the backing to their claim is. Flags need to be replaced after tearing. Idk the rate of replacement (Windy cities more often) But I know that the increased cost of making these energy producing may outweigh  profits. I would much rather put a small turbine out instead. It would last longer. I don't know who downvoted you, but you're right. There's other socio-economic and cultural factors involved, but politics and lawyers are very much a part of this. In fairness, at least some of these instances of defensive medicine presumably caught a subtle problem. Obviously it's unfortunate that legal incentives are shaping doctors' decision rather than medical ones, but the legal incentives aren't all bad. From my understanding it was more related to cardiovascular health. Which of course is one of the main factors in risk of eschimic stroke, but i think this article is trying to directly link the two.

To be fair, i didnt read it.  I think he was more saying that a lifetime of physical fitness matters more than excercizing towards golden age. The thought of hooking up with a cheap lay on Craigslist makes my dick shrivel up. Tis true that my short descrition was inadequate--as is yours however. The authors are not at all referring to a single narrow paradigm. Let's leave it with the authors' conclusion: "We conclude that there exists no reliable support for the claim that a momentary diversion of thought leads to better decision making than a period of deliberation." Ah, makes sense.  [Collection of Sand from around the world at the Pacific Grove Museum of natural History, California] (http://i.imgur.com/59kvf.jpg) Agreed! Nor should they ever be thinking "what is covered by this patient's insurance, and what will hospital administrators do if I use too many resources here, etc." - unfortunately lawsuits are the force working against that thinking - we should change that! it's okay, sometimes you just gotta browse those casual encounters to see if your friends show up. Sounds like we need more science, less concern with money and how resources are used. More concern with doctors and patients, less with administration and lawsuits. Olive Garden Turtle physiology is different. That's a bit if a more specialized kind of circumstance, this was someone stopping a prescribed blood thinner, after a surgery. That would be like an epileptic stopping their meds that prevent seizures just because. Did a ton of research on Aids because I'm cool like that. Due to the nature of anal sex, it is 100 times easier to transfer than vaginal sex. Do to the high level of multiple partners in many gay lifestyles, this is a recipe for disaster. No one is bringing up that it is almost exclusively gay.   This doesn't surprise me at all. I spent 6 months living in Italy studying the Mediterranean Diet specifically. The health benefits are numerous even to the extent that effects of smoking are significantly decreased compared to a western diet.  The explosion won't happen as long as the metal is solid, but the reaction generates a lot of heat which quickly liquifies the metal, which has a low melting point. &gt; Pasta is a traditional Italian food

Southern Italy. North is primarily polenta, risotto, potatoes and soups. Some stuffed pasta Like the increased accessibility to the internet from 1999 to 2008.  Or the fact that Craigslist enters cities that are recently experiencing growth, and with that a growth  in incomes, people, diversity and interaction?  I'm not saying the have no right to claim what they claimed, I'm just saying the article doesn't seem to mention much at all.  Which makes it impossible to see how they arrived at their conclusion. &gt; That would be like an epileptic stopping their meds that prevent seizures just because.

Like my GF, and "just because" is really "cant afford" and now we are using a plant based alternative if you get my drift. Not everyone has access to medicine. Reality expects us to be doctors for each other if we want to live, so that's what we do. Why would anyone willingly do that? Just curious Yeah something i can contribute. I did a study abroad to study this diet on the island of Crete. So the true Mediterranean diet is a diet that consist highly of legumes, olive oil, fruits, whole grains, and healthy proteins. In fact, Crete consumes the highest amount of olive oil per person in a year than anyone else. Around 32 liters. Americans consume less than a liter i believe. If they consume more olive oil than anyone else then why are they so healthy? It's a huge combination of things. First most people I saw on the island were walking to get their food and up alot of steep terrain. Another is the greens that they eat and the olive oil they consume. Greek olive oil is different than what you buy in America. There is actually a book called, "Extra Virgin" that tells about the olive oil scam. The greens that they eat come from the mountains and contain an insane amount of antioxidants, as well as the oil. Whole grains such as dark breads and rusk are consumed with most every meal. Meat is not always consumed at every meal but will probably consist of some fish,seafood, or snails. Red meat, however, is consumed minimally around 1-2 a month. So with the combination of an active lifestyle and the powerfoods of the Greek and Cretans people it results in some of the healthiest people on Earth. Side note: i saw more old people than I have ever in my life. and they were almost all smoking. Also if you want to learn more about the diet PM me and always look for the real Greek Olive Oil, which can usually be bought at your Greek diner.  And make sure you're buying the real stuff,  like Costco organic.  

There is a ton of fake olive oil on the market. 

It's a huge scam,  run by the mafia in Italy and elsewhere.  You might want to fully think about what you just said. try this one:

http://oldwayspt.org/sites/default/files/files/RateYourMedDietScore.pdf Yes, we have a lot of different titles. What /u/soulfullginger said is correct, Medical Technologist, Medical Laboratory Technologists are the HCP that is able to report results as we have certification. You can also be called a CLS and have certification though. 

Unfortunately the titles aren't as consistent across the board. I'm actually in Canada and my title is Medical Laboratory Technologist but we are comparable to MT's in the US so I tend to use that on here because it's easier to expalin. That's because anyone consuming 4 cups of coffee today is inside of an office building all day. And now the stress of thinking you'll have a stroke will further increase the odds. 

 So now I guess the media finally has their 'data' to back up an agenda to pass more legislation.  You're making some assumptions here. She didn't start going to a trainer at 63, she had been doing cardio her whole life (bike riding, hiking, walking a few miles every morning). She was also going to a trainer to maintain muscle mass and to do weight bearing exercise to prevent osteoporosis. Also, there is no disputing that eating natural food (whether "organic" or not) is better than eating foods with preservatives, high sodium, artificial sweeteners, or highly refined sugars is better for overall health and helps prevent scores of other health issues (such as type 2 diabetes, high blood pressure, obesity and so on). Anyway, my point was, even though she was doing everything "right", her attitude was able to undo decades of healthy living. Correlation. Causation? Is there an independent factor generating the observed statistical relationship? There are a number of different diets, from Mediterranean to paleo to low carb, that all offer a variety of health benefits like this. Some are low in fat, some are high in fat, some are low in carbs, some are high in carbs, some are mostly meat, some are more pescetarian. The real common factors are generally eat real food and cut out sugar. It doesn't matter how much olive oil you add, if you're not cutting out food alternatives like big macs. It also doesn't seem to matter a whole lot which fad diet you follow, as long as you're eating natural, largely unprocessed foods.  Yes, but what happens when I only get 45 minutes of sleep each day? BANANA BOMB This submission has been automatically removed. Please review the guidelines in the sidebar about the types of submissions that are appropriate for /r/science.

*[I am a bot](/r/AutoModerator/comments/q11pu/what_is_automoderator/), and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2Fscience) if you have any questions or concerns.* Shrimp poop for the win! Honestly though, why exactly is the shrimp poop growing bigger? What's it made of that does that? Do other types of marine poop do the same thing? And where are these shrimp poop beaches? &gt; _Of all of the people in this situation, the lawyers are the only ones that never provide any remedy to health care._

Lawyers are the reason doctors and hospitals go to great lengths to insure that nothing happens to a patient. If they didn't have any fear that negligence would come with a penalty they would have no incentive to be careful. It's basic economics.

&gt; _Doctors are good._

No human is inherently "good" or "evil," they're just humans. They do good and they fuck up. Some more than others.

&gt; _But lawyers and lawsuits are the reason for much defensive care._

That's a good thing. &gt; _Consumers pay for those tests. It may be one or two steps down the line, but every test is ultimately paid for by individuals._

Yes, health care costs money. [Actual research video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LmlAYnFF_s8)
 Coming from my patient-centered motives as a nurse I find that many times tests are not ordered often enough, or without consistency as far as a best practice (imo) would be concerned.   In my mind this all comes down to a question of differential diagnosis.   As a critical care nurse i find myself saying.. and i see doctors and other nurses occasionally NOT saying:  "what are the FIVE worst things that could happen?" (even in situations that almost never have very negative outcomes)  Now i picked the number 5 mostly arbitrarily off the top of my head just now but in any given diagnostic scenario if feel like there are usually at least 5 potentially deadly consequences or unintended consequences of either missing something or doing something we shouldn't have.   I very much agree with another comment in this thread that mentions potential complications from over testing but I must stress it has to be taken with a grain of salt.    ABG's was the example i read here, and yes there is a risk of thrombus but usually the risk of impending acidosis and respiratory failure is a much larger concern.  Furthermore having dealt with too many ABG draws and arterial lines to count I can think of none that have resulted in this potential complication.     A more pertinent example would be things like IV contrast administration for a CT scan,  or empirical antibiotic prescription for certain sets of symptoms.     These actions have real and immediate negative consequences that could outweigh any benefits of care provided if done hastily without considering our options carefully.    Yes we have evidence based protocols and policies for deciding who gets what and how much (like kidney function tests in this case),  but I have seen many cases where these protocols were followed and damage still resulted, and it might have been that we should have left well enough alone, observed closely and supported the individual conservatively.   On the other hand I'll use a real example from my career that directly relates to the chest pain comments above.   In this case doctors did NOT order some extra "defensive" tests or take extra steps that, if done, could possibly have saved a patient's life:   Patient comes to ER with chest pain, is seen and worked up much as described above,  EKG and troponin are negative and the patient is given nitroglycern aspirin etc...  chest pain is non-specific and appears to have resolved... said patient is admitted anyway and stress test is scheduled for next morning.    For first several hours of admission patient is 100% normal, moving independently in room,  suddenly tech watching heart monitor screams down hallway to get to patient room..  Patient found unresponsive on floor cyanotic with no pulse.  CPR performed immediately and effectively with no response or recovery.   Patient had dissecting AAA.       If ER doctors had practiced "defensively"  patient may have gotten a chest x-ray or abdominal x-ray or CT that almost certainly would have revealed some abnormality and it may have been possible to fix it.       Now the doc/nurses involved in this made no errors and are very good at their jobs,  the odds of this outcome are very small, and these are good people who care about their patients, so please don't reply with "how could someone miss it?"   Lets go back and review what i said earlier using hindsight.   What are some worst things that could happen with chest pain? (Basically your H's and your T's)    ACS (heart attack, maybe pericardial effusion),  PE (clot in lungs),  Trauma (collapsed lung).... the list goes on... and finally Aortic aneurysm (the high pressure garden hose coming from your heart is weakening and delaminating) .     A chest x-ray would have eliminated a few of these at once but some (like PE) can be eliminated with blood work, and most of the others are plausibly eliminated with a simple physical exam and patient history.     So whats really happening here?      Time is money as always!   our healthcare system does not allow highly trained doctors and nurses the time to critically think about these issues often enough.   Insurance companies push agendas of not ordering tests too often to save themselves money, while on the other hand certain MD's push certain diagnostics for everyone because they can bill for them and it might be pertinent.   Then when crunch time comes and that case where the patient just doesn't feel right comes in we have 20 other people telling us to hurry up and the extra tests that should be ordered get overlooked in the shuffle, or the person who maybe doesn't need IV contrast gets it anyway and they're ARF.    Then we have the really good doctors who stay late and are always tired because they are always thinking critically and caring, ordering an extra test because something doesn't add up.  We hope they don't burn out... same with the nurses who do this and advocate that doctors order the extra tests.   Are you starting to see how complicated this can get?      

TLDR:  just like most things in life this is a gray area, there are a lot of reasons shit happens, you can't fucking boil it down or dumb it down too much....  merely calling it "defensive medicine"  frames the entire issue incorrectly.  

...we need to spend more money on educating kids and the public about their health and more money on universal healthcare and education in general.      This is an Investment that takes a long time to pay off but results in lower long-term healthcare costs and higher GDP.          You won't get a stroke but you'll get high cholesterol and gallbladder stones.

Bottom line: If the bullet doesn't kill ya, the blood loss will. You mean like how sand is made of atoms, like everything else? Well thats not the point of this particular article, this article isn't a peer reviewed journal. if you want to look at the methods you can read the journal article

Jason Chan and Anindya Ghose. Internet's Dirty Secret: Assessing the Impact of Online Intermediaries on HIV Transmission. MIS Quarterly, December 2014 [Another video, with more detail (and fluff.)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LmlAYnFF_s8) Considering the untold trillions it would take to actually rectify this situation, why is BP still a thing?  Why have not all assets been seized for the purpose of cleaning up their world-shaking greed? Nutritional studies are all various shades of shit. Sloppy controls, no blinding, confounding factors etc.  Limited meat consumption? Chicken and lamb are fuckin great! so where's the miracle? Taking a good comprehensive patient history should be the first step before ordering tests surly? it's cheaper, faster and can point you in the right direction for testing. Otherwise known as the "Sure, I think it's a myelitis, but *what if I'm wrong,* what if I am missing something."

And the entire state of medicine is improved because your doctor has to WORRY about FUCKING UP.
 Is there a list of good olive oil brands? I use olive oil in almost everything I cook and its alarming to hear that some of it could be fake. Looks like the page doesn't exist anymore.does anyone have a mirror link ? Terrific! Pass the tabouli. I am so much more confused! A colleague told me that the CLS folks I see had to do 4 years of school on top of a bachelors to get that "CLS" .. I need to google other people's jobs more often because I was definitely working under the wrong impression Results trump theory. Full video: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LmlAYnFF_s8
 Fun fact sand gets broken down far more than that in soil science.. 
Very Coarse Sand: 2mm-1mm
Coarse Sand: 1mm-.5mm 
Medium Sand: .5mm-.25mm
Fine sand: .25mm-.1mm
Very Fine Sand: .1mm-.05mm

Silt: .05mm-.002mm
Clay: less than .002mm

Most would think sand is the finest soil particle, but it is the largest..  Many Redditors are Vegan. They exist on Mountain Dew and Cheetos. That flies in the face of public health care doesn't it? wouldn't money be better spent where its needed for instance delivering increased screening on people in high risk groups or better yet spending money on preventative health care? That is always one of the *first* things that is brought up when HIV is mentioned on reddit. how the hell do I know if my Olive Oil is less than 18 months old?

Serious question I just found a site that is developing native strains of maize.  Heirloom varieties and Indian corn seem to be useful. That's just common sense I think you're confused.

There's a theory that there are more atoms in a SINGLE grain of sand, than there are grains of sand on earth. That's been debated, and its hard to quantify the number of grains of sand(this video gives a pretty good insight into why, sand is pretty varied, and there's also sand under water, in deserts, etc).

It's probably safe to say that there are more atoms in a piece of gravel, than there are grains of sand on earth.

THAT is pretty freaky when you think about it. While I agree being active tremendously helps, stress still takes a terrible impact on the body. Its important to have a healthy body and mind, neglecting one and hoping to make it up with the other is just ill fated compensation.  But on the paleo diet and low carb diets you're told red meat is fine, saturated fat is fine blah blah. Encouraged to eat it, in fact. But these diets will raise lipids and cause insulin resistance unless there is a big reduction in calories. 

The Mediterranean diet will improve health regardless of weight loss in most people since there is a drastic cutback on saturated fat and dietary cholesterol. Also you can and are encouraged to eat lots of fruits and vegetables, whereas that isn't really possible on a lot of these low carb diets and a lot of the paleo gurus are convinced fruit needs to be limited. Oh, dyslexia. Hahaha. Regular *walking*. Ancel Keys should have lived in some of the countries for some years before he wrote about them. Pizza is fine so is spaghetti. Flour, tomatoes, Olive oil, cheese. are part of the diet. TIL I unintentionally follow a Mediterranean diet What an ingenious way to generate energy Sorry, but it's not going to take off. It just can't make enough power. Like trying to harvest energy out of a barbecue grill igniter, it generates nanoWatts or even picoWatts. It's better to leave renewables to solar panels and windmills where they would do better in larger concentrations. Small wind turbines are often useless A portion of Ancel Key's sample was taken during lent, so less meat was consumed than the actual 'traditional' Mediterranean diet. We shouldn't think of the diet as actually representative of the Mediterranean diet. It's just a sexy name for the diet. You could have typed "shrimp poop" into google.

Or, since you watched the video, you could have typed "ooid."

Or "ooid location."

Basically, instead of asking 4 long(er than needed) questions and waiting for people to reply, you could have just typed 1-2 words into google and could have your information already.

How do I know this? I googled it! It's funny that ooids are found in a popular vacation spot. People pay money to go sun tan while laying in shrimp shit, poetic.


If you're starting to get annoyed that I, and currently everyone else aren't answering you, then maybe you should try finding out basic, easy to find info on your own!!! Shocking... I know! Defensive medicine is just a convenient scapegoat. The bigger issue is how insurance and billing work. Fix that and performing a couple of extra tests wouldn't cost even as close to as much. Every health care professional should know about them.. I mean that's basic stuff, that nurses should know. Inexcusable for a doctor to not know about different types of seizures. In the time it took for me to type this out, over 80 million people have died of stress.

[citation](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=elrV-oHeSjE) This is only a "problem" because so many doctors are so self-absorbed that they can be relied upon to cover their own asses, but nobody else's.

Think about it- that's why, when a guy dies because the doctor did not pay proper attention to an X-ray or did not explore alternate diagnoses, and the family sues, the reaction to prevent this incident is called "CYA" instead of "avoid killing people in the future"
It illustrates where the priority is. And we can expect doctors to avoid doing things that jeopardize the purchase of the next BMW 7 series sedan, but we can't expect them to reliably do things that won't result in the death of a loved one.

Source: My three year old son was dosed as an 88 lb child by an anesthesiologist who didn't bother to look to see that he weighed 33 lbs, and you can goddamn tell the difference between a 33 lb human and an 88 lb human, regardless of the loopy handwriting of the LPN or whoever wrote the intake form.


 /r/noshitsherlock I think the expiration dates printed on there are USUALLY fine.  The oil will obviously be functionally fine for years after, but without those benefits. Look, I don't mean to I insult your mom, but my dad did the same thing and got heart disease and wondered how that could have happened. 

I'll tell you how it happened, she wasn't doing intense cardio, and she probably had a genetic disposition towards cardiovascular disease. Intense cardio is really the only way to knock your risk down, plus avoidance of sugar, smoking, and too much alcohol. 

Hiking and several mile walks won't do it. In fact, if you go too long, your cortisol levels increase and now you've made things worse. 

The other things,  personal trainer, organics, etc were harmful in that they led her to believe she was doing what she needed, when she was missing the most important part:intense cardio. They are not harmful themselves, and as you noted, have plenty of benefits. But she missed the most important part: intense cardio. Her result was completely predictable, independent of her attitude. 

You probably have her same genetic disposition. Find an intense cardio class you like and stick with it. Yoga, no. Zumba, no. Walking, no. Hiking, no.  Personal training, fine but it's not going to solve this problem.  Intense cardio.  How do you know the Costco organic is legit?  I am headed there later today and already planned to pick it up but now this has me super curious. And happy. :)  Thanks! thanks, very interesting

Read about another study about an island off the coast of Greece that had lots and lots of long-lived people

It was quite mountainous. They came to about the same conclusions you did. Lots of walking, lots of eating of fresh vegetables right from the garden, and of course close tight knit social groups all contributed to the long lives 

Can't remember the name of the island  It's very difficult and it's a huge disappointment that most all the oil is not what it says it is. What they tend to do is mix it with canola oil or veggie oil. Real oil taste so different. Very, very bitter in a lot of cases but soooo addicting. The only brand I have seen that is real good olive oil in the stores is a brand called Olea estates from Sparta Greece. It is very expensive though and I would not expect most stores to have that. If you live in a big city I would go to Greek town or a Greek Resturant and ask if they sell any. Many places sell 3 liter tins of amazing oil for only around $30, which is much much cheaper than the cheapest at the stores. If not, maybe a global or middle eastern market. they always sell good oil in most cases. I wouldnt trust any brand at major stores, expect from the one i mentioned. it's great to hear that you use a lot of olive oil. Also you get much more antiox benefits from eating it in the raw. Like putting it on your salads, or topping your food. My family lives in Greece making Olive Oil. Its a passion of me and I hope you can find what you need. Wow, gee thanks for that platitude! Is there a list of oils to avoid anywhere, or do I just stick to the known higher quality ones?  I believe the LDH is the largest of the enzymes so it will take longer to diffuse through the necrotic areas in the myocardial areas.
 Choosing Wisely is a program designed to save patients (and insurance companies) money. One of the first line of defense for that is advocating for patients to go to urgent cares or pcps instead of emergency departments when applicable, but it extends all throughout the healthcare experience. This is not science, it is just a company shilling it's ideas/seeds. I believe the LDH is the largest of the enzymes so it will take longer to diffuse through the necrotic areas in the myocardial areas.
 The ingredients are fine but the quantity of foods are not.  His research was *exhaustive*. Yes there is a causal link. Stress causes release of hormones intended to deal with fight or flight situations. That's our evolutionary heritage. Our society is constructed so when faced with stress (which in turns leads to other issues) you can't run and you can't fight, but physiology wins. You just keep dumping hormones which result in hypertension, high cholesterol, obesity, sleep disorders, and other things. These negative physical complications cause a downward spiral and strokes, diabetes, heart disease and no doubt more are the result. That's basic physiology 101 And the patients crying: Why can't I be discharged?! Why do you have to wait for blood tests?! Why can't I have food?! (The last question is usually asked 5 minutes after arrival, no matter the severity of symptoms. Food is the most important need of humans I learned in the ER.) [here's a link to more info](http://lifehacker.com/the-most-and-least-fake-extra-virgin-olive-oil-brands-1460894373) 
 Sorry, didn't mean to sound like an ass, I was positing these scenarios under the assumption that medical fees weren't bank breakers, that can absolutely change the issue. I genuinely hope that you and your girlfriend are managing it properly and healthily, medical issues are a stress that is not fun to have to deal with. Not to mention if you're careful and smart you can actually get the same medicines sometimes with the plant based stuff, it's just a little bit more "difficult". CLS is usually just a +1 on top of a BS... I would come to /r/medlabprofessionals to double check I'm not missing something.  It is also important to know that glucose isn't the *only* "currency of lifeforms." Ahh good to know I didn't know that they're all intracellular.  I actually think the radiology notes in the US is pretty good since they include a lot of information. They take forever to write, which is a PITA. I found this list: http://www.truthinoliveoil.com/2012/09/toms-supermarket-picks-quality-oils-good-prices

From my understanding, the biggest problem is with large Italian producers mixing EVOO with other oils. I would try to avoid big-brand Italian oil.  If people wanted the truth they'd pick up a book; we watch movies to be lied to http://www.truthinoliveoil.com/2012/09/toms-supermarket-picks-quality-oils-good-prices what do you count as mediterranean? does morocco, libya, egypt, cyprus, israel, lebanon and turkey count as well? because their diet is very different to the italian and french one. A variety of ways.  A seizure can be described as just an altered state of consciousness (that's not caused by anything else, so being drunk isn't a seizure), so even just someone staring off into space *could* be a seizure if they're unaware they're doing it (IE they stare, then snap back and don't recall anything happening in between).  They can manifest with just lifting up a leg/arm or some other odd behavior.  It's usually when they progress to the tonic-clonic shaking that people go "oh it's a seizure" but sometimes there's signs beforehand. http://www.washingtonpost.com/blogs/wonkblog/wp/2015/01/27/californias-epidemic-of-vaccine-denial-mapped/ Eh, it wasn't just one sample. It was collected over several years and occasional fasts do factor in to the overall eating pattern. we've known chronic stress is bad for you for quite some time now. How does this recent Mediterranean Diet interest compare to what was being held up in similar light a decade ago under [The China Study](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_China_Study) based on the [ China-Cornell-Oxford Project](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/China-Cornell-Oxford_Project)? Ahh, good to know I didn't realize they were all intracellular.  Fack See my link above. Yeah it is the most dangerous but if four cups of coffee lowers the risk of an already low risk illness I don't think it's worth it considering the harmful effects of too much coffee No reasonable doctor would do that second test unless he had a Damn good reason to doubt the first ones results. And no. 1% improvement in diagnosis is not a reasonable reason. very cool. Could you use this in a tilted torus to drive a turbine at high efficiency? What stress does is drive your cortisol levels up, and that does increase your risk factors. But 2 X 0 is zero. Keep your risk factors from other causes near zero and your stress levels, while relevant, aren't going to be enough to make a meaningful difference. 

Yes, avoidance of stress is important, but far more important is exercise.  good article. I have heard that the traders Joe oil is very good in fact. Still I would try and buy a 3 liter from someplace. The money saved is incredible.  &gt;  I genuinely hope that you and your girlfriend are managing it properly and healthily

Well then I'm genuinely happy to report one more case of "medical marihuana" working better than the legal alternatives in every perceivable way. How is that moot? That only means that the percent of skin cancer cases being melanoma is actually less than statistically reported. This isn't encouraging to anyone who suffers from clinical depression. You might as well tell someone who has cancer that there's an increased chance they're going to suffer and die early. There's nothing we can do about it. Anyone remember the bug catching parties from cl?  I've seen the screen caps but don't browse the section so it's second hand  Added a link to more information,  the situation is fluid but I trust  Costco more than say Walmart to carry quality products.  

Apparently the Italian oil is more likely to be canola oil.  &gt; to the extent that effects of smoking are significantly decreased compared to a western diet

[citation needed] It improves your strength, but has little effect on cardiovascular disease. It's negative impact is that it makes people think they are getting a cardiovascular benefit when they aren't. Intense cardio is a better approach, but people think they don't need it because they are working with a personal trainer. Wrong.  Best of luck to you. I had a juvenile pilocytic astrocytoma surgically removed from my spinal cord at age three. Before I was properly diagnosed my parents took me to several doctors who all diagnosed behavioral problems and wanted to refer me to a psychologist. Finally one pediatrician realized immediately what was going on and sent me for a CT scan which confirmed the problem. I suppose its incidents like those that have led to more lawsuits over the past thirty years. Some = quite a large quantity &gt;The seasonal comparisons in Crete and Corfu were of interest because the survey in Crete in February and part of the survey in Corfu in March-April were in the 40-day fasting period of Lent of the Greek Orthodox church, but strict adherence did not seem to be common in the populations of the present study.

Quote from the Study. 

 Where can I buy your Family's brand of Olive Oil? I'm sold. PM if preferable. This is a pretty poorly worded headline. It implies the production of an element. What it means is that hydrogen is split off of water.  How can they be healthy with that much olive oil? Uh, maybe because clean fat isn't bad for you? Like, at all?  Reddit "sciency" types like to devote a lot of time to shitting on alternative medicine but you have to realize that empirical science is only finally realizing that health is holistic, the body is not mechanical, if the mind is unhealthy the body is unhealthy.

Now I'm not supporting the negative aspects of alternative medicine, but you have to give credit where credits due. I probably shouldn't have laughed at that. Why was this downvoted? Doesn't sound very scientific. I understand what you're saying, and the reality is between the 2 extremes. But I also want to point out that "defensive medicine" with it's negative connotations does exist, is very well studied, ans it's a huge (and I believe still growing) problem. And make no mistake about it, it is a **bad** thing, both from an economic perspective as well as for the health of the patient. 

You're right that most doctors are probably as worried about the health of their patients as well as loathing lawsuits; but make no mistake about the real consequences of defensive medicine. All diagnostic tests have indications for a reason. If you go out of indication for no better reason than "but what if?" you are, statistically speaking, doing more harm to your patient than good.

If you start your comment dismissing anecdotes (a laudable attitude), don't then ruin it by appealing to emotional arguments to defend defensive medicine. If you live in the US then olive oil produced in California might be the best. Get it from a reputable dealer like Trader Joes. The problem with imported oil in the US is some middle men will adulterate olive oil with other oil to get better profits. So mainly buy local if possible and buy from a reputable dealer.
 The problem here isn't that they take adequate steps to ensure that they have the right diagnosis. That's fine. The problem is the following sentences

&gt; Nearly half of neurosurgeons in high-risk states said they had stopped performing high-risk procedures because of liability concerns. Nearly one-fourth had stopped performing brain surgery for fear of being sued, while close to 40 percent were considering retirement because of the local liability environment.

Which is quite different from just making sure. Olive oils sourced from California and Australia have been found to be exactly as described almost all of the time. haha i thought up a similar scheme years ago, except instead of a flag it would be specifically designed and tuned air foil strips that would vibrate in the wind. or simply a long rod with a specific shape and a pezio(or some material/device that can create energy from compression) at the base, using the length of the rod/pole as leverage, and the swaying motion to create energy with a very small footprint.  This OP always delivers: http://imgur.com/uHsF3hV

We are headed to Walgreens right now. Haven't stopped sweating or smiling. :) In most of Europe you wouldn't get all that much, anyway. If a child is hurt and can't work that's expensive and maybe would cost you $1-3 million, but that's about it. Most other errors aren't that expensive where I practice.

Socialised medicine may be part of that, but on the other hand it's difficult (at least in CA) to sue the VA or county hospitals so I guess that works the same way in the US. mmmm Good.  I guess the closest I'll really ever come is to eat after birth ... which sounds and seems like it might be just a tad bit gross ... though there's worse things people eat ... like "three penis wine".  As if eating an animal penis wasn't gross enough, they first let it rot, then dry, then ferment them from deer, seal, and dog ... mmmm.


The best way I can describe the expensive matcha is that all of the positive aspects are amplified and all of the negative aspects that turn many people off to matcha in general are completely non-existent.  So the chalky taste, the green taste, the bitterness are non-existent.

I was just thinking, if I gathered enough mother's afterbirth I could literally bath in the blood of the innocent ... it would be glorious. So craigslist gives you aids. Great. This article is from 2013. There is no link to primary research. Digging through the sources didn't give any primary data. 

Here is a link to some research on the topic including the researcher named in this article. Its pretty cool. Maybe a paywall. 

http://pubs.acs.org/doi/abs/10.1021/bm5004256 Low carb/keto/LCHF diets are based on the idea that all carbohydrates, from process sugars to bread, are treated the same by the body when it gets digested. Carbs, by their nature, are more calorie dense than an equal massed portion of meat, white or red or fish. The extra calories from carbs add up and get stored as fat. 

That thinking is radically different from the Med Diet requirement of 9 servings of grain. While grain or not, it is all the same as sugar when the body processes it.  Most gay men, I would say, have moved to Grindr and other apps more explicitly designed for this purpose. Much more intuitive interaction than exchanging craigslist emails. I found that, but I don't think it is the same as the score in the wikipedia article as the pdf score goes from 0 to 9 and the wikipedia article states "the score theoretically ranges from 0 to 55, and higher values indicate greater adherence to the Mediterranean diet.". Actually I work in the ER. We're not paid by procedure or test, any patient that comes through the doors gets the same treatment and considerations regardless of whether or not they can pay their bill. We can thank the Emergency Medical Treatment &amp; Labor Act, or EMTALA, for that.

Your type we're actually fairly familiar with, who are convinced we look at an Orders sheet and see only dollar signs in our eyes. Nothing I say can really convince you otherwise, but all the physicians I know look at that sheet and try to come up with the shortest list they can to keep their patient alive. When a blood test can give as much info as a CT, the CT is avoided. When a personally-conducted ultrasound can tell us about the same as an MRI, we'll stay late to do the ultrasound instead.

It's unfortunate that some people like you have such an ardent distrust of physicians because they must arbitrate an inflated and broken medical system. Nearly all naturally healthy people do. I guess I can go 10 lifetimes without getting melanoma, then! :) It's not popular but the fact that doctors and hospitals are getting paid for all of these procedures provides a much better explanation of increased testing than defensive medicine.  This is only true if you assume people are risk neutral.  In actuality, most are risk averse.  They will be willing to pay a guaranteed fee of 10 dollars even if the expected value of the possible fee is 9, but has a maximum payout of 500.  They would rather pay a bit extra now than risk losing everything.   They live in a small village by a city called Nafplio. The community all makes oil at the same factory and sells it only in Greece unfortunately. this is extremely interesting. Unfortunately, aside from academia, it won't achieve a second look. Things like this get pushed under when it comes to energy. The political system is too corrupt for this in the states.  I buy California Olive Ranch. I've heard it's legit, and I hope it is. Exactly! When i eat like i should I consume around 2 liters of olive oil a month. That is way more fat than what any American would consider of eating. Yet, I lost a lot of weight and feel a ton better. The greens and the oil is what the Cretans preach keeps them alive so long. "Naturally healthy"? Is that a proper term? What is it? &gt; What they tend to do is mix it with canola oil or veggie oil.

Isn't it illegal to sell something as olive oil when it isn't? [Here's](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LmlAYnFF_s8) a video explaining it from one of the actual researchers.  What is the best way to access this article? So just in case you have depression or anxiety... See the thing is that's not actually defensive medicine you're talking about at that point, that's essentially fraud. That's ordering tests for which there is no defensible medical reason for ordering them, and that being lumped in with "defensive medicine" doesn't make any sense.

What they're referring to here is basically aggressive rule-out. Elderly patients are subject to this much more, i.e. even if they suffered a moderate fall from standing height they'll get pan-scanned (full head, facial, chest, and body CT). While many of these do come back negative, that doesn't negate the benefit of this practice given that a fair amount of the time something *will* come back that wouldn't have been caught otherwise.

Basically what I'm saying is that I don't think some people here understand the **degree** of the "what if". Something like "well she was on a plane recently so we better do extensive infectious disease testing", that would clearly be frivolous if she has no symptoms. We don't rule out for freak accidents, we rule out for rare but statistically significant things. Something that only happens to 1 in 50,000 people is going to affect a LOT of people in a hospital that sees 800,000 people a year.

It's not ruling out any infinitesimal chance of something. It's ruling out things that we have a reasonable suspicion for (even if to non-medically-oriented people that chance sounds low). Carbs are not more calorie dense than protein or fat. In fact they are far less calorie dense than fat. And since they contain fiber, digestion is slowed and you stay full for longer. 

Where do you get these ideas from?  "Whole grains such as dark breads and rusk are consumed with most every meal."

You mean the gluten isn't killing their immune systems?
/snark Why not? Pretty interesting. This might sound dumb, but does that mean early humans didn't really get stress or depression? Ah, well good trainers should go for a balanced approach.  Realistically you need cardio, strength, and flexibility to be fit.  12 years comes faster than it sound In Australia? I haven't heard of anyone in Australia requiring a lumbar puncture, but maybe that is just my sample. That sucks.  Someone should tell that to Hershey regarding chocolate. I'm having some trouble understanding the concept of defensive medicine.

From the article: 

"Defensive medicine refers to making medical decisions based on concerns over possible malpractice lawsuits, rather than any expected benefit to the patient. "

If there is no medical basis for the tests, shouldn't there be no benefit from performing them in regard to a lawsuit? If you're sure that there is no benefit to the patient, aren't you also sure that the lack of administering the test won't get you sued?

It has set off my bullshit detector. I think that these doctors are perceiving very low risks, and testing for them to cover their bases. I think the risk must be there, otherwise the test would do nothing to deter lawsuits.  So is it fair to say there's no stopping the Cretans from hopping? This submission has been automatically removed. Please review the guidelines in the sidebar about the types of submissions that are appropriate for /r/science.

*[I am a bot](/r/AutoModerator/comments/q11pu/what_is_automoderator/), and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2Fscience) if you have any questions or concerns.* Have you ever scored unpaid sex with a female woman off craigslist? Strokegrimmar... me too Grow it in vats and power cars. Another FYI: it wasn't a precautionary check, your doc probably knew you had a blood clot as soon as you said you had calf pain. You developed the clot from not taking blood thinners after surgery. It is.  Basically anything that says it was grown and bottled in the US has to be what it says it is, and the USDA enforces it. What's best for a patient and what prevents you from not getting sued are the same thing. They are ordering more tests to make sure they don't miss anything. As in to make sure the patient gets the best treatment and has nothing to sue them for... Because condoms suck, and they don't care about the risk or even getting HIV. Plus statistically getting infected with HIV now and starting meds early means you will die of old age before the virus kills you.

They see it that it is worth having better sex with the risk of getting stds. The [Greek olive oil](http://www.traderjoes.com/images/fearless-flyer/uploads/article-1164/20484-greek-kalamata-olive-oil450.png) at Trader Joe's is extremely affordable and delicious.  It is $9/liter. Quick! Somebody start a war in the Gulf! It is, but there isn't much enforcement out there. So I generally agree with what you are saying but as a doctor I want to reiterate what some other people are saying farther down the thread - defensive medicine can also have costs to patients. For example if I order a PSA (prostate cancer screening test) on all my patients I may think I'm covering my ass but I'm also subjective my patients to a lot of undo worry and often leading them towards procedures and treatments that they may not really need and which can cause other negative outcomes such as incontinence and impotence. 

The fact that we have a fee for service system and malpractice structured in an adversarial way puts us (physicians) at odds with what should be our fiduciary responsibility to patients. This is why while what you say is true, it distracts somewhat from the real conversation which is that our system (USA) tends to encourage more patient interventions and tests which don't always benefit patients in the long run. The Choosing Wisely campaign mentioned below is a great effort at turning this tide.  *"incrediburu" ugh, just try to convince the people over in /r/keto that this is a healthy diet. They'll flip their shit.
 You assume lawsuits are frivolous because you are not the one suing. Insurance companies don't settle frivolous lawsuits they settle ones that if they go to a jury they could possible lose. Its less than one percent of the cost of health insurance to settle all malpractice claims, hardly anything overall.  Not true unfortunately. The Italian oil may be the biggest concern but US oil is still different. I would not trust it, except for some I can vouch for the Trader Joe's Greek olive oil.  At $9/liter it is an amazing value. I'm gonna check this out.  I'd love to buy a local product that is what it says it is. Most olive oil from California is good. A successful lawsuit requires the plaintiff's attorney to paint the Doctor as negligent to a jury of 12 "peers" ignorant to the nuances of medical practice. It's really easy to gorge on carbs to be fair. When you switch to a low carb diet, you can find yourself consuming less calories without really intending to as a result.

Part of that is that you can't really consume much "fast" food, which tends to be carb heavy.

And fats are very calorie dense but you really have to go out of your way to add them to every meal to make up the difference when cutting out carbs. Most low carb diets also recommend a very high fibre intake. Yes a little mistake like misdiagnosing a patient, or cutting off the wrong limb or leaving a sponge inside the patient.... Med mal costs less than a percent of overall medical costs. You are very misinformed.  :). I was literally eating a Nafplion olive as I read this comment! will do that too....new-ish to reddit Doesn't that encapsulate the core issue here, the cost of a serious medical condition, is huge to infinite. And so even very long odds of a disease still yield an expected value high enough to warrant a test. Which at the core makes all medical choices fall well outside normal expectations and process.  It really becomes an issue when someone makes an off-the-cuff decision to run a test that they don't have a good reason to run. Newer doctors run more tests, and older doctors think they know things they can't possible know, so they order unnecessary tests. http://www.olioilgrezzo.com/il-grezzo-products.htm

This stuff is the real deal, tastes/looks/smells just like the raw stuff my zia has in Italy.
Better yet, I don't know about where you are but my local costco caries this! a two pack of 750ml bottles for 15 dollars. Not in Australia but both Europe and the US I have upcoming brain surgery and am appreciative that my neurosurgeon has taken time to run tests and exhaust options.  With something as complex and important as the brain they need to be sure before cutting. If you're not in Italy,  you're basically fucked.  It's all gone off Or to America in general regarding bread What about the greens with less of the oil? I would like to post a link to a traditional cretan cook book from an absolute master of it. Foods of Crete by Koula Barydakis.http://www.amazon.com/Foods-Crete-Traditional-Recipes-Healthiest/dp/0976350718  Another master of this cooking is Nikki Rose. A Greek American who I did the study abroad with. Both are amazing people with tons of knowledge. http://www.cookingincrete.com/Nikki-Rose-Book-Crete-The-Roots-of-the-Mediterranean-Diet.html The people over in /r/keto literally have brain damage from their diet Sort of a broad stroke to paint with, but the essence is true--there are certainly many reasons why a doctor might or might not order certain tests. This is why this study only showed a 75% use of what they defined as defensive medicine, as some physicians' style of practice is more gung-ho with their accepted risk threshold. It's a discussion that has been going on in medicine since we first got diagnostic tests at all, and it's not likely to be something that's ever concluded. You mean the request?  Here in the UK a request can be as brief as "?bleed" Look it up. Servings are standardized. As crazy as it sounds. The oil adds to the benefits. When they make the greens they boil in water and tops with tons and tons of delicious oil. I can imagine diet ameliorating the adverse systemic effects of smoking, but what were their lungs like? I'd imagine they still suffered from COPD at high rates. thats why i do 1 mg cuts. the nasal inhalation part was the joke. but yes, of course greens with less oil with be extremely healthy :) I'd rather just use sunscreen the deal with the side effects of the caffeine. Very few trainers have the courage to put someone on a treadmill. The client will wonder why they are paying the trainer.  What are their lungs like? Any COPD, etc? They'd get stress, but less of the mental kind of stress and more physical stress (having to work very hard for food much of the time). Since humans have begun to live in more organized ways, the physical stress has become less because, but mental stress of others has begun to compounds the mental stress of the individual. An organized society has patterns in its functioning, and if there are no effective ways to deal with stress then that makes that way of living less sustainable. Thunderf00t on YouTube. Best I can do on mobile.  [Defensive medicine, also called defensive medical decision making, refers to the practice of recommending a diagnostic test or treatment that is not necessarily the best option for the patient, but an option that mainly serves the function to protect the physician against the patient as potential plaintiff.](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Defensive_medicine) Beef Bourguignon comes from Burgundy, which is nowhere near the Mediterranean. Pepperoni pizza is an Italian immigrant dish more than traditional Italian. How would you know the antioxidant levels of the greens they ate? If I drank 4 cups of coffee a day, I'd never leave the toilet. Just because states of mind are sometimes found to affect health doesn't mean the body is somehow "not mechanical," rather it means there must be a *mechanism* coupling the two that was not scientifically proven to exist before.  &gt; While grain or not, it is all the same as sugar when the body processes it.

I can't believe people actually believe this. Makes me kind of sad. Yeah this is good stuff. Not sure if that has been researched. From what i observed I could not tell. Most everyone in the small villages were walking up tough terrain. Nothing like seeing an 90 year old plus Cretan walking up a huge incline. How is this even legal?
 I live in Finland, the country that consumes the most coffee per capita. I drink about 1 or 2 pans of coffee a day (and sometimes I go for a day with no coffee because I'm not just feeling it :D) depending if I have guests over a lot. I've never heard of anyone I know having a stomach ulcer from coffee. I'm surprised it's not higher. This paper concerns some key evolutionary steps leading from single-celled organisms to multicellular organisms. Namely the evolution of histocompatibility, which depends, as I understand it, upon having a large variety of alleles at a particular cue locus, but up until now, there has not been a satisfactory enough explanation of how this could evolve. The linked paper presents a multi-stage explanation using game theory. 

Forgive me if this was not the best way to summarize it. But it seems like kind of a big deal if it's right. One interesting and disturbing observation about the sub-seafloor oil layer is that it does not have the robust microbial community found in other seep environments.  It is not degrading as readily as one would assume or hope. Did anyone else read that as "Negative emoticons"?

I'm all like "oooh, what's the emoticon for hostility, I need that one" Well, that certainly makes sense.  

Guess there's no question here, so I wonder why this study is news?  Seems like they could have just assumed that hypothesis was true and skipped the effort. Yes but it's what happens during "processing" that matters. Whole grains come with more fat and fiber than white flours and sugar. Complex carbohydrates have to be broken down into simple sugars. There are two major consequences of this; first of all whole grains are more satiating so you eat less and secondly they take longer to digest which mitigates blood sugar spikes and the subsequent insulin response. Therefore what you say is technically true but disingenuous. Just because the final product is the same doesn't make sugar or white flour the nutritionally equivalent to whole grains. The University of Athens we went to at the end of the trip gave us a complete breakdown of all the nutrients of everything that consist of a traditional Cretan diet. The greens are mostly found in Greece and in the mountains. They contain an insane amount of antiox. However, since i can't get them in America I eat lots of spinach and other greens that can be found in stores. And ''cheese''. I eat nothing but fat and meat and my cholesterol is perfect. Go educate yourself on the ketogenic diet /r/keto YES! 100g beef (85% lean, 15% fat) has 250 kcal

100g sugar has 387 kcal
100g french bread has 289 kcal
100g multi-grain bread has 265

This information is gathered from nutrition labels at the store.  Further corroborated by Googling "calories in 100 grams of ..."

Almost everything with carbohydrates is more calorie dense than an equal mass of meat. Skanks will skank, evidently Were you able to see their ORAC values?  There is no meat which digests faster than the slowest bread.  Bread will fill you up, but it does not sustain a person for long.  Meat will fill you up and you will stay full because it takes actually takes extra hours to break down the dense meat - the bread is very accommodating and will soak up juices, like digestive fluids, and speed up the process. Bu..but it has ingredients I can actually pronounce! I switched to a ketogenic diet last year because after a lot of trial and error I found that in conjunction with my meds it helps me maintain remission for my ulcerative colitis.

Ever since I was diagnosed several years ago I have religiously kept detailed logs of everything I eat (and everything that comes out).

It's actually REALLY hard to hit my calorie quota on this diet. Back before, when I ate a "normal" diet with lots of carbs, I would easily be hitting 3000-3500 kcals/day on average. Peaks of 4000, especially after eating out, were not uncommon. 

With this diet I'm actually struggling to hit 2500 most days, like to the point where I really just do not feel like eating any more but I have to force myself because I know I need the food energy.

Maybe by weight, fat/protein is not as calorie dense (I don't know, taking his word for it), but it's REALLY hard to gorge yourself on fat/protein without obliterating your appetite. It's super easy to eat 600 Calories worth of bread in a single sitting... try eating 600 Calories of turkey, or fish, or chicken -- it's really hard.  NPR did a interesting story on olive oil and how to determine which ones are authentic or fake. They might have a podcast you can listen to.  Yes. It had everything. I have no idea were i put those documents at the time. It is fascinating though I don't think what you're describing would be categorized as defensive medicine.

Doing a thorough workup for a real problem isn't defensive.  It sounds like you have good neuropathologists / surgeons. I'm also convinced there is a world of difference between cheap condoms and name brand. I used cheaper ones as a poor college student. I knew to squeeze the air out of the tip and everything but I still had more than one break, which is always horrifying. It should be a serious crime to sell inferior condoms, that shit is nothing to play around with. It's a major issue. These guys want to keep it anonymous so that they can act like it never happened, but those anonymous hook ups are so much more dangerous. Thanks for the info.  I'll have to swing by Costco. Was this research funded by count dracula? What is the difference? I know :( 100% agreed. Integrative medicine is where it's at. Alternative medicine has way more angles to tackle stress and stress induced ailments before they have turned into diseases that require allopathic treatment, usually because the concepts of healthy functioning are way too fragmented in modern medicine. Objective measurements usally give a very narrow viewpoint, where in prevention of (the onset of) serious disease the "measurements" should begin on more abstract levels of personal perception/feeling. It's all down to how it's marketed. The main issue is that Olive Oil can be used for **many** different purposes(marinating, frying, baking, dressing, seasoning etc etc) depending on how it's **processed**. You should specifically be looking for "Extra Virgin Olive Oil". Extra virgin olive oil is made simply by crushing olives and extracting the juice. Very little processing involved. It's very easy to tell the difference. It actually resembles olives. It looks dark green, smells and tastes like olives, you're unable to fry / roast with it because it burns so quickly. Im betting the same thing causing the bad mood is leading to the strokes, not the mood itself.  Why, you sonavah... I had the exact same thought process haha.  Reading this stressed me out so much I just rage smashed half my living room and now I'm depress Though it's not as good as "real" olive oil. I've had olive oil bought in Italy, and I can confirm that they taste completely different. Olive oil here doesn't taste like much, while olive oil is supposed to be bitter on it's own. They smells different too. And "orange juice" [Youtube mirror](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LmlAYnFF_s8) Ooh love it. Never heard of spoon theory before but I I'm going to use it now! I'd love to have bottle shipped to me. =) The sad thing is those who chronically have negative thoughts and emotions will only have more of those when they read this study. Vicious cycle. I've been using olive oil in almost every dinner I make for the past 4 years.  I should be fatter than a cow, but I stay relatively lean (if I exercised more, I'd be better).  I strongly believe that good fats have been given a bad name. Whether you think its intuitive or not. There's still a shit ton on craigslist. Does it? It was exactly what I expected when I saw the title and read the article. I want it in a bullet. I imagine that a pure pellet potassium of this embedded in a lead hollow point sabot would be highly effective against game animals.  Exactly. But, flithy fucks like me just ignore it.  So why can't Rossi, after a decade of building demo units, sell this machine and make billions?

Are you aware that Rossi is a convicted fraudster? I disagree. I know in parts of the country sex education can be bad/non existent but the overwhelming majority of people do receive some, and unlike the 80's and 90's the information is at everyone's fingertips. Not to mention, the people trolling for sex on Craigslist are usually not young uneducated teens. I think for most people under 40 we see HIV as a vague threat but have an invincibility idea as we never saw how horrific it actually was. Not to mention your average person on Craigslist is probably more of a risk taker if they are interested in seeking strangers for sex, so I assume they will take other risks like having unsafe sex. I find it very hard to believe that someone didn't know the risks, but rather they took the risk, bet, and lost. You mean yellow "edible" plastic? People treat epidemiology like it draws sound causal relationships between variables of interst but that really is not the case, it only correlates the variables. I still think the studies are valuable in directing further, more in depth, research on the possible mechanisms explaining the correlation found by the study. Completely made up. War ape. Olive trees are everything to us and are the major source of Palestinians' livelihood. Our olive oil products are organic and pure. You can now purchase them online at http://www.canaanusa.com or for more information at http://www.canaanfairtrade.com. You can also find them at your local Whole Foods store. There are other brands of olive oil imported from Palestine as well. This is really interesting as Mediterranean is basically a vegan diet plus fish (so vegetarian). But if any of you happen to be vegan and you are frightened about not getting nutrients from fish, there are great algae supplements which give you the proper omega fats. In fact, they may be better for you than fish since you wont get any mercury.  If a doctor normally  does 2 tests but does 3 to protect themselves from getting sued, then why would a patient agree to 2 just because the doctor wants to save time. And then on top of that the doctor makes them sign a waiver not to sue. It seems like no one would ever take that deal. The patient is giving up the right to sue and they do not get the accuracy or confidence that would come with more tests all so the doctor can save time. Really? I've taken a look before and been disgusted by all of them.  If this is true, I imagine am totally immune to cancer. could you substantiate this? 

In the US, if a label is not true then it seems the company would be breaking the law. Would be great for night time illumination of flags. fuck is keto? Bread is the one that really does it. Very easy to consume too much of it, and fill it with even more calories. Same goes for pizza, which is ridiculously calorie dense.

Even pasta is easy to overeat on. And unless you're covering every dish in gobs of oil, cream and cheese, it's hard to overdo the fat on a consistent basis

I find saturated fat from meat super filling. And eggs are pretty much a godsend on this diet. Been using a few teaspoons of duck fat with 3 scrambled eggs for breakfast, does the trick nicely and takes less than 5 mins. I buy California olive oil. Easiest way to avoid fake imports. Plus it can be cheaper so win win.  I am saying the doctor wants to do less tests, not the patient. Currently doctors are doing extra tests to protect themselves. Why would I agree to do less tests, and also agree not to sue if the doctor is asking to do less tests just to save time? read the book Extra virginity if you're interested in the topic.  One thing I don't understand about ANY of these special diets is their abhorrence of red meat.

You act like man hadn't been hunting large game since the dawn of man, and the whole point of domestication was to remove the whole risky hunting bit. No way in hell am I going to write red meat out of my diet. Its only smells http://efukt.com/21049_It's_Only_Smellz.html If these cannibinoids are non-psychoactive to us, how do we know that they are also non-psychoactive to mice? He was very set on it: if he had a son, he would be Samuel; if it were a girl, she would be Samantha. And it was a boy and so he's Sam! Through extrapolation I now conclude that I am impervious to all cancer I'm going to assume the rifling and/or the projectile will be shredded to dust if it was sent through at 10,000m/s, not to mention the air resistance would also mess it up pretty bad.  An AK-47 only sends it's projectiles at about 740m/s.

In addition, the explosion only sent little shards that weigh milli/decigrams at that speed, while a firearm projectile has significantly more mass.  Thanks, I just went out and got a California bottle from TJs. I'll probably start buying online straight from reputable producers from now on.  Thanks  [Here's the relevant Thunderf00t video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LmlAYnFF_s8).   If it's labeled as Italian EVOO then it's EVOO. Might be a blend of olives from Greece, Spain, Turkey etc but Europe is very strict about commercial grades.

&gt;The United States is not a member of the IOC and is not subject to its authority, but on October 25, 2010, the U.S. Department of Agriculture adopted new voluntary olive oil grading standards that closely parallel those of the IOC, with some adjustments for the characteristics of olives grown in the U.S.[32] Additionally, U.S. Customs regulations on "country of origin" state that if a non-origin nation is shown on the label, then the real origin must be shown on the same side of the label and in comparable size letters so as not to mislead the consumer.[33][34] Yet most major U.S. brands continue to put "imported from Italy" on the front label in large letters and other origins on the back in very small print.[35] "In fact, olive oil labeled 'Italian' often comes from Turkey, Tunisia, Morocco, Spain, and Greece."[36] This makes it unclear what percentage of the olive oil is really of Italian origin.

http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Olive_oil#Regulation The Mediterranean diet includes a lot if seafood. And that seems untenable these days. fyi, fish isn't considered vegetarian. Did your study include any actual medical data?  Everything you said seems purely anecdotal. &gt; and Cretans people

no need to name call here man... If this is true, I should be dead right now. I have an enormous amount of stress in my life.  you dont have to. Their diet list of what they eat and consume on a day to day basis. I personally believe its the amount of fiber, antiox, and fat that makes them so healthy with an active lifestyle. I still eat red meat. maybe not as much as before but everyone can accommodate to include some healthful benefits from their diet. Of course some people will say,"STAY AWAY FROM RED MEAT" as a result of their diet but we arent those people. I always thought it was...I guess I am wrong then. Thanks for the correction! Oh wow didn't know that. Thanks. ...so amylose and amylopectin are identical now? This is ridiculous; saying "it's all sugar when the body processes it" totally ignores *how* the body processes it in the first place, which is kind of important.  Man, science is weird sometimes.  look up 7 country mediterranean diet study. It was a 25 year study that has some very good results We put olive oil in our salads ( tomato, lettuce, cucumber, etc) and in the majority of meals. 

I dont have any particular source for this but what is "bad" is the "fried" oil. Hunting large game for most of your meals would hardly be worth the effort. Red meat is the hardest meal to get; people aren't going to take significantly more of it than they need. And in this case it's hardly an "abhorrence", they just don't need much of it since they get their (much easier to catch) protein elsewhere. I told my neurosurgeon dad with 31 years of experience this, to which he replied "No Shit." No problem. After reading the article, I think the video should be linked. T-foot was one of the scientists running the experiments, and one of the paper's authors. The video is so much cooler than the article.  yeah but that's a nonmelanoma cancer. My dad died of a stroke for exactly this reason. He hate his job, the government, was depressed. Worked to take care of us, but couldn't take care of himself. I'm thinking About quitting my job to pursue something I enjoy more because my wife is so worried about me. His favorite saying was "life is hard, and then you die." Maybe a self fulfilling prophesy, maybe a pearl of wisdom. I'll let you know in fifteen years.

TLDR: stay positive guys, it can only help Literally? Even those of us not practicing neurosurgery practice CYA medicine. It's the only way, unfortunately, without tort reform. Haha, sorry. I'm not in Nafplio and don't have access to the oil. I work for a food importer and we get the olives. Just thought it was a nice coincidence. Is there scientific data to back up claims for this diet and lifestyle? Anecdotal evidence is not good evidence.  Yes, it is, and I am skeptical that the olive oil I buy, made from California olives, has other oils in it.  Was I talking about only eating bread? No, I was not. Are we forgetting that Ancel Keys isn't a trustworthy scientist? Not science as such, but a friend of mine proposed something similar a couple of years ago.  Nice to know actual research is going on in this area.

 http://atelierdna.com/masdarwindstalk/ It should be pointed out that there is only enough of a difference in incidence of ischemic stroke to seem statistically significant, it's not dramatic, and there may be other factors pertaining to general physical health from exercise to explain the difference.  

That said I use Costco olive oil instead of butter on my mashed potatoes. I'm sure there are other factors along with it. I'm basing this off anecdotal evidence from people I've encountered (med students who've consumed excessive amounts of coffee).  Spanish olive oil branded as spanish could be less prone to adulteration than olive oil branded as Italian. 

Italians come to southern Spain peasants and buy whole productions, which later on label as Italian. The fact that 11400 fps can't catch the explosion as it happens, as in the plume forms between frames, is mind-boggling to me. There's so much energy being released in this reaction it's crazy. Well you know, they probably are able to somehow "purge the toxins" from their system.  Yes. As hunter and gathers they werent eating TONS of meat. Alot of a hunter and gatherers diet consist of many tough and fibrous roots, nuts, and anything they could find. thats why they had great and strong teeth with little dental problems. In todays world we eat alot of processed food that cause many dental problems with misaligned teeth.  That would also seem a reasonable hypothesis. Fuck this, they re-hosted a video and then gave only a minor credit to the original creator under a still image?

Ignore this article, go watch https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LmlAYnFF_s8 instead. yeah, b/c you're waiting in line at the coffeeshop and bathroom too much to go outside. np,  Vegetarians don't eat living animals.  A fish is an animal so they don't eat it. Nutrition is the winner for crappiest "attempted" Science. &gt; Whole grains such as dark breads and rusk are consumed with most every meal. 

I had to look up what "rusk" was. Yuck. Basically teething biscuits.  You're thinking of trans fats which are typically used to fry foods. "Fried" food just means cooked submerged in fat. I regularly "fry" my burgers in bacon fat and fry low carb fried chicken in olive oil. You may also be thinking of saturated and unsaturated fats - saturated is the one that people say is bad for you etc but that is because of the fat phobia from the 70's to today - the bad science that says fat causes heart attacks and clogged arteries, etc All carbohydrates are broken down into glucose, so no. I'm assuming you are eating straight pasta and rice, so maybe the foods you pair them with have nutritional value, but the sugar you are eating is a sugar. This is why French food is so much better than American food (or really, any country that actually takes its food industry seriously, not just France). I'm baffled by what seems to be a common conception here that outdoor workers -- construction workers, truck drivers, etc. -- can't possibly drink 4 cups of coffee in a day. please remember this all anecdotal and not scientific at all.

 Reading this fills me with rage.  When the incident (what do you call it?  "Accident" makes it seem unavoidable, or at least not their fault) happened, Halliburton took it upon itself to use Corexit, contrary to scientific and legal advice, to mask the seriousness of the spill.  It's also offensive reading about "missing oil".  Um, we looked, but we couldn't find it ... it was gone! 

 [Here](http://www.halliburtonwatch.org/home.html) is a link I found that points out some of the shenanigans Halliburton has been involved with. Negligence is negligence. Period. Doctors are not above the law. What incredible fucking ego.  Paleo is not a healthy diet. Plan and simple. short time=yes it can make you healthier. long time= NO, it will not. I discussed the theory, that the food is the decisive factor for the high life expectancy of Cretans with a Cretan and he disagreed and said it would be the stressfree, relaxed lifestyle. 

Personally, I still think, the food is the most important factor, but you should always be careful to not over-interpret studies and to jump to a one-sided conclusion. It might even be a nonsens correlation.

 Always happy to answer a sincere question-- imagine you are the 20 year old lab tech who has to come in at 2am to run the blood tests that I need at 4am, and you get paid the same hourly wage regardless of how many test I order... you are gonna be annoyed. You'd actually be amazed how hard it is sometimes to get people to do things in a hospital. Well this didn't help me feel less anxious depressed about myself. That is a cop out and you know it.  Give some sources besides "go read this one book for a specific thing that may be in there." their brain is just praying for an ounce of glucose :) Vegetarians don't eat dead animals either. Pseudo Science or not? I believe we are energy. Energy never really dissipates.  100% it is the stress free as well. I can't mention everything. It is a lifestyle. That's what it is called. not a diet For walking, I can anecdotally relate my experience living in Manhattan:

I'm pretty sure that all the walking you do in Manhattan protects you from the comical obesity you see in Middle America, but it's hardly going to be enough to keep you *thin*. You probably won't get big enough to need your own Rascal, but you can easily pack on some extra weight if you combine eating poorly with (other than your walking) not exercising. Sorry... but wow... you really do need to get off your high horse (yeah, I know that's almost impossible with "your type").

What's really unfortunate is that physicians continue to maintain such a ridiculously inflated view of themselves, and worse how they hide behind the screen of a "broken" system in order to not be honest about their own *real* motives. Saying "dragon" is super misleading. It was a large sauropod, and farmers are not paleontologists, so they thought that it kinda looked like a dragon (probably because of the neck). Very bad title on OP's and CNN's part. In the US, lots of "pomegranate juice" has maybe 2% pomegranate juice. And plenty of "pomegranate juice" has *zero* percent pomegranate juice in it. Of course its a cop out. I dont care enough to look for something for you. look for yourself.  &gt; A lot of a hunter and gatherers diet consist of many tough and fibrous roots, nuts, and anything they could find.


Yes. Apparently a variety of fruits and roots was the main diet in most HAG societies, with hunting parties often coming back empty-handed. That's why the whole "hurl hurl paleo diet, meat, lots of meat!" makes no sense. I have never hunted a war ape. Is their flesh delicious? 

War has driven more invention and science than any other agenda. I believe that this technology could lead to a faster cleaner kill with less suffering. Surely that would be a good thing right? If not for the taste of the meat then for the idea of reducing pain when possible right?

 Uhebebe crater (blew up ca 1000 years ago) in Death Valley National Park California, Diamond Craters volcano(s) just north of Steen's Mountain in Oregon, and the Colorado plateau volcanoes that flowed lava into Grand Canyon, Arizona are not plate boundary or plume volcanoes I believe. He was a very trustworthy scientist. The hip and popular term fire a ketosis diet.  Aka starving your body of carbs. Because I don't know what they mean by 'strict adherence' do people feel worse about eating their regular lamb during lent? I don't know. It needs to be measured and controlled. Exactly. hunters were a community. Relying on one another if thier family comes up short. But im sure all those paleos were thinking everyone was chopping on wild boar 3 times a day and doing boxjumps and burpees in the afternoon. Part of it is definitely that fat isn't actually bad for you. It actually helps sate you. If I have a Fage Total (190 Calories) for breakfast, I can probably make it to lunch. if I have a Fage 0% or even a Fage 2% (100 Calories and 150 Calories respectively), I'm lucky to make it a couple of hours.

I think the other part of it is that Mediterranean people tend to have much more sane ideas about portion sizes than Americans do, and tend to find it much easier to actually stick to those portion sizes and to not snack in-between meals.

Of course, it wouldn't shock me if the higher amount of fat in their diet made it easier to do this. Much easier to not snack between meals if each meal is more sating. I'm going bald from worrying about hair loss. It is but European exporters don't care and it's not very enforced. 
 It was very strictly measured. It wasn't controlled for though because it was only it contributed to the overall dietary pattern and its association with disease. I just discovered a small lacunar infarct on my last MRI and I eat as cleanly if not cleaner and as close to the MeD as possible.  Still can't figure it out.  I haven't done keto but I've done low-carb diets. I feel like keto is basically responding to a desire to keep eating American portion sizes.

Mediterranean diets work because Mediterranean people tend to have much more sane ideas about portion sizes. I suspect the high fat content of the diet makes it easier to be sated between meals. I dunno, I know a few retirees who have RV's with boom-mounted small wind turbines they put up when they camp in the desert and are able to harvest enough power to run their camp. And yet you were the first person to bring it up in this thread. Maybe people will 'flip their shit' because you would be talking about something irrelevant to keto and coming off as a bit preachy.

Of course people will provide counter-arguments; that's what a debate is.  Correct.

The issue with carbs is particularly simple, refined/processed carbs. Your body is able to digest them very quickly. Whereas fat keeps you sated because it takes longer to digest; likewise, complex carbs (e.g. whole grains) take longer to digest as well. Bullshit. There's no women on craigslist. Keto diets are high fat diets. Mediterranean diets appear to be high fat diets. They seem to support each other, where is the dissonance?  How many drugs are you on right now?  You mean this? http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25632127  
It's so frustrating.... BUT you get 9 calories per gram of fat but only 4 per gram of carbohydrates. So considering that and fiber it is much easier to overreat on fat. It's not, but [pescetarianism](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pescetarianism) is a pretty common "vegetarian plus fish" twist on vegetarianism.

It makes perfect sense if you're vegetarian for health reasons instead of moral reasons. I know there's also arguments that center around levels of sentience (but this doesn't seem too pleasing to me, since for example octopuses are very intelligent). All I'm seeing here is "blah blah i have a personal vendetta against physicians so I think I don't need to back up what I say with evidence"

When clearly the other guy is actually a doctor... but oh man those ER docs, they practice a completely different medicine than neuros, theres no overlap at ALL. Night and day. Whaoho, glad you finally dropped some knowledge here, thanks bud. I am not really sure what is it exactly, but , what i have been told is olive oil gets bad if you have it on stove and gets hot enough (making fried eggs for example) [...say what?](http://media.tumblr.com/tumblr_lco6qprNqh1qafl27.gif)

Well thanks for the laugh at least Don't worry, people will stop buying dishonest brands and the free market will sort everything out. Any day now. Lol so you hide your middle-school-debate-team level indignant sputtering behind a throwaway account, yeah we're taking you real seriously right now

Always one crazy nut reply in every top comment What? This is plain wrong. Oil *will* make you fat if it's not being burned off. The difference here is that their diets aren't full of other sources of fat. That olive oil is their *primary* source of fat. If the only fat you ever ate was a tiny amount of olive oil each day you'd be fucking healthy as well. Western diets contain far too much fat, meaning that just throwing in olive oil will simply make us fatter. Because even though it represents 2% of skin cancer cases (including BCC), it represents the majority of deaths due to skin cancer.

If you are a Caucasian person, you have a 1 in 50 chance of getting melanoma, which is a pretty high risk in my opinion.  He left 15 countries out of his 'Seven Countries'' study that basically debunk the point he was trying to make. I would take any study done by such a man with a grain of salt and question the methodology. Of course, it is possible that his research in this instance is sound, but I highly doubt it. I would have done this if I was on my laptop, thanks! My problem is during the winter months I get severely depressed, but every spring I snap out of it and by Summer I'm the happiest person on the planet until the first below 40 degree day. 

Walking during winter in ann arbor is kind of a no no sometimes but I did find after I started playing basketball regularly that the days seem less gloomy.  It all comes down to calories consumed vs. calories burned. They are high in olive oil. They're still low in fat compared with Western diets. I was a cook for 15 years before I tried the real stuff. It's ALL fake pretty much. Blew my mind. The free market isn't a thug that breaks down the doors of corporations who mislead customers.

If the customers are buying it, they want it. Whether marketing tells them it's "pomegranate juice" or "vitamin water" or whatever. Your DNA is damaged by more things than uv light. No he didn't. He excluded countries with unreliable data and included the only countries he found to be consistent with each other in their record keeping so he could make a fair comparison. I agree, the title doesn't imply hydrogen is magically created from thin air. From what I gathered, the bacteria released hydrogen as a by-product of it natural processes. The implications of this could be far-reaching if someone was to commercialize the cultivation of this bacteria to produce large quantities hydrogen.  Wow... even more ridiculous *ad hominem* attacks. 

And that's what get's upvoted as appropriate critique here in /r/science?  Interesting.

Not that it is relevant, but the answer to your inane question is NONE. Yeah that's the one, I never remember it right! &gt; If they consume more olive oil than anyone else then why are they so healthy

Because olive oil is good for you. I don't know much about italian food since all that comes out is pizza and pasta, that I doubt they eat all the time, but when I look to portuguese and spanish cuisine, well... it's very very far form a vegetarian diet.

My grandparents were poor when young and they never had meals without meat or fish, so I really question the validity of this study since I learned the old traditional recipes from them, and none of them are vegetarian. NONE!

Those are recipes, that go quite a bit back then the 70's.

But believe what you want, I still have over 300 under recipes of cod fish to try and my pork's liver is almost ready to cook for tomorrow's lunch, that I will have with some rice and a nice salad with olive oil.  I think the thing was the pain was so mild I never expected it. And having done plenty of lower limb injuries before and never had to take blood thinners before I didn't pay it much heed.  &gt; All I'm seeing here is "blah blah i have a personal vendetta against physicians so I think I don't need to back up what I say with evidence"

Which doesn't really say much about your reading comprehension skills now does it.  Nor your awareness or understanding of ANY of the issues involved with the subject at hand.

&gt;When clearly the other guy is actually a doctor... 

Yes, argument from authority (i.e. people in professions are apparently infallible, all doctors have taken vows of poverty, etc).

Wow.

&gt; Whaoho, glad you finally dropped some knowledge here, thanks bud.

Actually I did.  Alas you are bereft of it, because -- despite you being in /r/science -- you really don't have any actual understanding of it. Why isn't Paleo healthy? It also helps people sell their old junk! I didn't make a fuss about it. Having broken my ankle, torn an acl, torn a calf muscle and other lower limb injuries and never been on thinners before I wasn't too worried about it at the time.  &gt;  It is a lifestyle. That's what it is called. not a diet

Jup. 

You can eat as healthy as the biggest healthnut, but if you live an extremely stressful life you probably won't get all that far. Same would go for going through life stressfree but eating like an absolute moron. 

Wanna live a long and *happy* life? Eat well, don't stress, have a social circle (doesn't have to be huge, but it's gotta be satisfactory), and don't stop being active. Not when you work, and especially not when you retire.

NINJA EDIT: sorry that I pretty much just restated everything you've said so far. Did you read the actual study, or just the article summarizing the study? You can find the full version [here](http://www.krannert.purdue.edu/academics/MIS/workshop/2014/jason.pdf) and there is a thoughtful discussion on potential confounding factors.  No, I mean the response. In Sweden the request is usually "72 yo male, L sided weakness 4h. Bleed? Infarction?" or something similar. The response is usually "No signs of bleed or infarction.

In the US the radiologic responses included everything. You know someone's going to take this diet, remove the bread, dump everything else into a blender, and call it "The Olive Oil Cleanse" Pretty great isn't it? Even on the hardest of the hardcore subreddits like /r/askhistorians they just ask for a source of info. People here want you to read the book to them too while you are at it. CUM AT ME BRO But red meat damages the lipids, insulin sensitivity and predisposes to colon cancer. How can you vouch for them? Are you the one person in the world who can tell pure olive oil by taste? I have read a lot of good things about coffee- and I do not even drink it. Mediterranean diet does not exclude red meat &gt; Edit: just because this has come up many times now--ordering an exam that would only rule out for a freak chance (1 documented case ever) or with no medically-defensible reason, that's not defensive medicine, that's essentially fraud. That's highly inappropro and not at all what they're referring to here, as best I can tell. I'm not a fan of their study parameters which seem to lump negative results with "unnecessary", which is not at all true a lot of the time. A negative result can still tell you a lot.

This demonstrates that you not only DIDN'T read (much less comprehend) the replies... **but you also didn't bother to read the OP linked article either.**

As the posh Brits would say: "bad form". Yet he included The United States, with the lowest participation rate of 75%. [http://www.ravnskov.nu/A%20hypothesis%20out%20of%20date.pdf] (This) is a paper I believe is worth reading.  24/24? Is this a new saying I'm unaware of?  Thanks for your comments. Because when I see "Mediterranean diet" I laugh at scientists who don't know shit about geography. There's no such thing as "Mediterranean" diet. Do you mean French? Italian? Greek? Turkish? Spanish? Cretan? **Serbian**? **Libyan**? There are very few common foods between them. Olives...tomatoes...?

So I appreciate a scientist clarifying what MD means here. Lots of people in the real world are treating "mediterranean diet" as pasta-and-wine. https://docs.google.com/document/d/1gZfJejOM8fJsX1iCilmnpp1qmT_KncJwWCR4-EsaEHc/edit?pli=1

http://www.dietdoctor.com/lchf

http://www.reddit.com/r/keto 

http://www.reddit.com/r/keto/top/ There is a lot of good evidence that all manner of balance requiring activities are superb for your brain. Young people who skateboard, ski and do other balance activities are really doing their brains a favour. there are alternatives, like getting a MRI instead of a CT. Its completely harmless without contrast. The radiation in a CT probably isn't as bad as the iodine injection on your kidneys.

I have had a rare medical problem or 2, and it sucks to be the person struggling through it, unable to get help because someone thinks it unlikely. Or just doesn't think... It really just destroys your life. If patients feel like they need testing doctors and insurance shouldn't object.

I think more often then you think rare medical problem are not so rare, but they just don't get detected and treated or reported correctly. In US medicine we throw pills at our medical problems to treat symptoms. The patient has pills, maybe the symptoms get reduced, or maybe they just legally get high enough to stop seeking a solution. Doesn't really take care of the problem though. Did they cook their meals with olive oil? I keep hearing it's safer to use it raw. they exclude eating carbs from breads and other shit. your body uses glucose from those carbs to start a important biochemical system in your body called krebs cycle. Without carbs your body resorts to going into a keto state which is a different pathway to produce energy. Your brain is fueled on glucose and uses more than any part of your body. A result of eating too less of these essential foods can result in ketoacidosis. it is a diet that long term can produce some very bad effects, compared to a wholesome and well rounded diet &gt; I use olive oil in almost everything I cook and its alarming to hear that some of it could be fake.

Flip over the bottle and look at the ingredient list. couldnt have said it better! Naturalistic fallacy: just because we have eaten red meat as hunter gatherers or whatever doesn't necessarily mean that it is healthy. At best we can conclude that we can survive just fine on it, but "healthy" in the sense most people talk about isn't about just surviving, it is about *thriving* and living a long, healthy life.  Maybe, but when [one in 14 physicians](http://www.nejm.org/doi/full/10.1056/NEJMsa1012370) faces a medmal claim each year, either doctors are amazing supermen that make mistakes once every 14 years or very few people actually pursue medmal claims. hello?  cells??  glucose??   &gt; But these diets will raise lipids and cause insulin resistance unless there is a big reduction in calories. 

The Bueno paper below shows that it's around a 4 mg/dl difference in LDL cholesterol to low fat diets, and this is because the particles carry more cholesterol and not an increase in LDL particle count (what really matters).

Here's the effect of a low carb diet vs. low fat diet after three weeks, without caloric restriction:

SF = Saturated Fat

 |Low fat low SF|Low carb low SF|Low carb high SF
:--|--:|--:|--:
Trig (mg/dl)|-15.7|-44.6|-55.9
HDL-C (mg/dl)|1.3 |0.4|3.0
LDL-C (mg/dl)|2.6|11.2|0.7
LDL-P (nmol/l)|-59|-287|-227

*Krauss RM, et al.* ["Separate effects of reduced carbohydrate intake and weight loss on atherogenic dyslipidemia."](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/16685042) *Am J Clin Nutr. 2006 May;83(5):1025-31; quiz 1205.*

The insulin resistance is also peripheral, it spares glucose for the brain, and reverses when you go off the diet. It's not the same as the whole body insulin resistance you see with metabolic syndrome. Low carb is one of the more effective ways of treating/managing pre-diabetes and type 2 diabetes (e.g [Westman, 2008](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/19099589)).

I posted this in [another thread](http://www.reddit.com/r/keto/comments/1qakxb/please_help_me_educate_my_so_about_keto_books/cdax0wm):

---

A review focused on discussion of why low carb works: 


&gt; In short-term and long-term  comparison studies, ad libitum and isocaloric therapeutic diets with varying degrees of carbohydrate restriction perform as well as or better than comparable  LF diets with regard to weight loss, lipid levels, glucose and insulin  response,  blood pressure,  and other  important cardiovascular risk markers in both normal subjects and those with metabolic and other health-related disorders.

...

&gt; The metabolic, hormonal, and appetite signaling effects of carbohydrate reduction suggest an underlying scientific basis for considering it as an alternative approach to LF, high-carbohydrate recommendations in addressing overweight/obesity and chronic disease in America. It is time to embrace LC diets as a viable option to aid in reversing diabetes mellitus, risk factors for heart disease, and the epidemic of obesity.

*Hite AH, et al.* ["Low-carbohydrate diet review: shifting the paradigm"](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/21586415) *Nutr Clin Pract. 2011 Jun;26(3):300-8. doi: 10.1177/0884533611405791.*

A review looking more at actual outcomes of low carb studies:

&gt; Meta-analysis showed LCD to be clearly associated with significant decreases in body weight, BMI, abdominal circumference, systolic blood pressure, diastolic blood pressure, plasma triglycerides, fasting plasma
glucose, glycated haemoglobin, plasma insulin and plasma
CRP, as well as with an increase in HDL-C. LDL-C and creatinine did not change significantly, whereas limited
data were conflicted regarding plasma uric acid.

*Santos FL, et al.* ["Systematic review and meta-analysis of clinical trials of the effects of low carbohydrate diets on cardiovascular risk factors"](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/22905670) *Obes Rev. 2012 Nov;13(11):1048-66. doi: 10.1111/j.1467-789X.2012.01021.x. Epub 2012 Aug 21.*

And a review looking specifically at very low carb ketogenic studies:

&gt; In conclusion, the present meta-analysis demonstrates that
individuals assigned to a VLCKD achieve significantly greater
long-term reductions in body weight, diastolic blood pressure
and TAG, as well as greater LDL and HDL increases when
compared with individuals assigned to a LFD; hence, the
VLCKD may be an alternative tool against obesity.

*Bueno NB, et al.* ["Very-low-carbohydrate ketogenic diet v. low-fat diet for long-term weight loss: a meta-analysis of randomised controlled trials."](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23651522) *Br J Nutr. 2013 Oct;110(7):1178-87. doi: 10.1017/S0007114513000548. Epub 2013 May 7.* Well, that is interesting but they did not use the right form of 'punishment'. If scientists would ONLY integrate existing research we would all be far better off.

Earlier research confirmed that they do not respond to physical punishment of any sort and they postulated a gating mechanism in their brains HOWEVER they learn quite well from 'punishment' that is financial in nature if it might block their goal or pleasure. It might win the award for "hardest biological science to generate conclusive data for", since:

1) we largely **have** to rely on epidemiological data

2) the potential interaction between any particular diet and population genotype is huge

3) populations may have a huge number of confounding factors which may or may not be controllable for


 https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LmlAYnFF_s8 Yes. they do cook their meals with olive oil AND they use it probably even more in the raw. You are exactly right with it better when its raw. Heating of olive oil breaks it down and loses some of its antiox benefits.  Sad to say, it's been hard for me to follow my own advice though. But it's slowly coming along. Haven't checked about that whole olive oil thing over here though, I really really should to that... Sounds delicious. I was thinking I might try brewing my tea a vacuous, distended post birth vagina, with a used tampon for extra flavor. I think the blood clots should be a bit like boba, which is slightly sweet tapioca balls if you haven't had it. Very true. There is so many different types of Med diets, but there are many similarities between a lot of them.  rofl This could not be more true!  Links to studies, documents, letters.  Those are sources.  Not "read this specific book".  I've done my own research on Californian oils and oils sold in the US, and everything I have read, from taste tests, to USDA regulations, leads me to believe that Californian Extra Virgin Olive Oils are exactly that, first cold presses of olives, and the oils derived from them. This kind of study always strikes me as really mean spirited. People get stressed, get depressed, get angry, and it's not their choice, just the hand they were dealt. So now on top of not getting to be happy, they find out they have a greater chance for a stroke. Thanks. Thanks a lot. This reminds me of the cancer experts telling people with cancer that if only they laughed more, they could be cured. Right. Thanks a lot again. My guess is by having relatively identical neurological systems, anything non-psychoactive to us would be non-psychoactive to mice as well.   Go hunting with nothing but a sharp stick and see how much red meat you can get.

Yes, we have been hunting it forever, but actually catching it was rare.  

Hunter/gatherers did not eat red meat on a daily basis. Yeah, they're called "american slices" for that reason.  Tastes like shit too. I trust the experts... they said it works.
Elforsk, KTH, Airbus, Cherokee fund, HIDZ Tianjin, NTVA Norway, Steven Chu, Statoil, Bill gates ... they all are moving in public.

It would not be rational to follow those having no evidence nor any credibility. Perhaps that is too high for your comfort but the increased risk of osteoporosis from increased caffeine intake is worse in my opinion. Healthy skin care habits are a trade off free way to lower the risk of skin cancer. &gt;It's ruling out things that we have a reasonable suspicion for

I'm sorry, but I think you're all over the place on this, and still appealling to hypothetical anecdotes and emotions. [Defendive medicine](http://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Defensive_medicine#Consequences_for_patient_care), by definition is **not** reasonable, at least as far as the patient's wellbeing is concerned. I'll agree that you might have a *suspicion*, mind you, just not one based on reason or your medical training, but rather on the phantom or a malpraxis suit.

In some instances you seem to defend EBM (at least in principle), only to then go and justify clearly defensive, certainly non evidemce-based, and with such absurd post-hoc justifications as "it turns out that needlessly irradiating and injecting already frail elderly patients with nephrotoxic compounds, without so much as a doubtful neurologic symptom or even pain because, well, we might find 'something else' that we might not have otherwise, except when it showed symptoms like any other medical illness".

&gt; Something that only happens to 1 in 50,000 people is going to affect a LOT of people in a hospital that sees 800,000 people a year.

I don't know if you're a practicing physician, but it worries me that you'd use "statistics" as apologism for a practice that goes blatantly against the kind of indications that were born from a hard analysis of rigurous statistics. As I said before, perhaps there **is** a legitimate defense for defensive medicine, but "it benefits the patient" is quite simply untrue. I'm finna have to explain this even though you didn't axe.

"Finna" is Minneapolis slang for "gonna" which is general US slang for "going to".

/u/sothi Mediterranean diet is good but an Asian diet may be better. They have the lowest 
rate of ischemic stroke and cancer. Although most of them do not smoke but they do
eat higher amounts of meat then the Greeks.
Where as in, the Greeks tend to smoke, so they counter the smoking with olive oil. 
 I hope you are really joking. Indeed.

I still think we're at a point where we're experimenting with, experimenting with data. So these sort of papers are common and will become much more so as the prevalence of data available grows.  Just because information is at everyone's fingertips doesn't mean everyone goes looking for it. Public libraries are a thing, have been for many many years, how many people actually went to them to look up information? Not many.

People by nature will only look up information thats required of them or they find interesting. I can't imagine most people, kids even would look up sexual information on how to use condoms and safer sex techniques/information.

Not only that when it comes to STDs, most people adopt an "Oh that'll never happen to me" idealism in their heads and so won't ever really look up STDs unless they feel they might have one already and by then its to late.

People looking up others for casual sex on Craigslist doesn't mean they necessarily are more likely to be more of a risk taker over other similar platforms like facebook/tinder/online dating(hookup) websites. Its something thats always happened, people looking to hook up, but now we can do it online and streamlined so its easier. That's all really. The fail here is that people do not have the tools to determine what is or isn't real.  You need government funded scientists to test this shit properly.  You also need government regulation with teeth and no loopholes so you can fine companies into the ground or jail their board members.  Yeah not going to happen.

It's the same thing with anything.  Look at the disaster that is the house construction industry.  They buy drywall that is labeled as Made in USA and it turns out that it's made in China and is highly toxic and falls apart in months.  They can't get around it because EVERY major supplier is sourcing this shit from China.  How many billions of dollars damage did that cause alone?  How many people's lives were ruined.

Often people have no choice when it comes to the things they buy.  Option A, B and C could all be from the same source and it doesn't really matter what you buy.  Blaming the consumer is ridiculous. &gt;The reason behind this is that medical symptoms are not nearly as clear cut as many people believe. The layperson idea of heart attack symptoms would be pain radiating from the left arm, chest pain, shortness of breath, etc. But there are actually a not-insignificant number of heart attack patients who don't experience enough of these symptoms to make it even close to clear-cut. 

Had a medical professor talk about this a few months ago. In 30 years of practice, he asked us how many patients he saw presenting with all the cardinal symptoms of a myocardial infarction. The answer was zero. There is a bit of research indicating that antixodiants is harmful when consumed in decently high doses. Why do you automatically think antioxidants is a good thing? We also are red meat after learning to domesticate animals. It's not like we stopped eating it after we quit being nomadic.  I honestly feel the need to completely ignore any pro/negative coffee health facts like this. Not only do I not drink coffee, but one week it's good, one week it's bad. Why is that? &gt; Eventually a name you respect will show it's legit. 

You're assuming this is legit. It's not. If Rossi really had something here, all he has to do it patent it and he'll be the richest person on earth. Instead he's going around doing these bullshit 'demos' and claiming that's it's ready for commercial use without ever selling any units. It's been YEARS of the same shit over and over. What is he waiting for? The one? The difference between bad and good olive oil is big. If you have a decent palate and regularly eat it, you will know. I pledge allegiance to the energy  
Of the United States of America,  
And to the devices, to which it flows.  
One grid, under load,  
With computers and TVs for all. In what regard do you vouch for them? That they are pure Greek olive oil? Or that it tastes good at a good price?  Great, then say that. Don't tell him to go read a book to you.

Like I said, having to list sources is one thing and reasonable given the topic. Having to dig up a quote from some book he read once isn't reasonable. Red meat is pretty tasty, but most humans never ate as much red meat as most Americans eat today. If you think you should eat the way we did 10,000 years ago, then you should fill out your diet with grub worms, lizard, bat, rat, fish, bird meat for protein. But primarily you should eat a lot of starches, like sago from palms, tubers, roots, seeds, and nuts.

A big ole steak and potatoes dinner is a feast. In the past, feasts were special times, but nowadays a lot of people feast three times a day. There are plenty of socialist states for you to move to that have much tighter government regulations if that is your thing. Knock yourself out. you mean sodium citrate, corn starch, soy bean oil and some cheese?  yes. Wait what? Yes, you can fry stuff in pure olive oil, it's *very* common. You just can't have the heat up at the maximum. It's like the difference with panroasting with canola vs butter. You have to look for olio extra vergine It will always say "Juice:  Orange" or "from concentrate." When "pomegranate juice" is written on the front of the bottle, in the largest font, people should have a reasonable expectation that pomegranate juice is the primary constituent.  Not sure what your point is... The survivors were the ones that lived long enough to breed.  I don't know the proportion of red meat eaters among them.  I do believe that ancient peoples lived shorter lives than modern people do  Long, healthy lives meant little once past reproductive age. I am skeptical as well. I'm looking at the bottle of Central Market olive oil in my kitchen and the only ingredient listed is "extra virgin olive oil." I know that there are shady labeling regulations, but I've never heard of regulations that let you get away with not listing key ingredients on the ingredients list. And? What difference does that make?

Not that it matters, but I doubt red meat was a staple in the average peasants diet in the past, anyway. Uh, since this is /r/science after all, can you show me some sort of scientific evidence that pure extra virgin olive oil and extra virgin olive oil adulterated with cheaper varieties of olive oil can be reliably distinguished by taste? that's understandable **etc** Yes, it is. A high percentage of fat intake has a corellation with weight gain. Yes, fat won't automatically kill you, but you should still watch your total fat intake. The reason the med diet works so good is partly because it's lean overall. The total fat intake isn't super high. My mom is involved in producing olive oil.  She lives on an island in Greece - Lesvos  She only produces organic olive oil.  

Unfortunately there was some type of disease this year so there is hardly any output on her island.  Im not sure about rest of Greece. But  I believe Italy has had similar problems with oil production this year.  
  
A lot of the oil produced on the island is sold to Italy where they mix it and sell it off under their own Italian brands. Its sold wholesale at ridiculously low prices - probably less then 2 euro for a litre (i dont know prices offhand ).   I live in the UK and I know that I when i buy a similar quality at  retail I would  be paying around 12 pounds.  

It is getting to a point where its not viable to continue to produce it considering the costs involved and the low price it fetches.    

It saddens and annoys me when there are consumers that are being screwed, and sold rubbish, at inflated prices, yet  there are many producers  who find it difficult to  breakeven (market dictates prices) and they sell wholesale to companies that are so greedy, they even add cheaper ingredients to the purchased olive oil to drop their costs even lower. 

Im not just talking about olive oil but other agricultural  producers as well.






   why do cats sleep so much? i dunno.  I didn't mean any offense with the down vote or corrections. But you were wrong about at least two of the examples of Mediterranean food you gave. Beef Bourguinon is as Mediterranean as food from Switzerland is.

Your post would have been better if you focused on the examples from your grandparents Mediterranean cooking, instead. I didn't.  He cited a book which, quite frankly, is rather lengthy and not entirely about the subject of Californian olive oil's purity.  As such, it is his obligation to either 1) quote the section he is referring to 2) cite the sources listed in the books sources, or, 3) provide external sources to that of the book.

If I'm going to make a statement based upon a book, you can damn well be sure I'm going to go get that book, and reread the specific section before I even begin making the post.  But then, I'm a biotech engineer, so what do I know about fact checking before going ahead with an action. http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ketoacidosis

an unregulated formation of ketones.  being in ketosis, producing ketones from a lack of availability of glucose, is not ketoacidosis.  even if being on a high fat diet does alter blood PH, just have more spinach or calcium supplements to counteract it.

the only time ive really heard of worrying about ketoacidosis is if you're a diabetic and have trouble regulating your blood sugar. There are different kinds of paleo though. Some emphasize the importance of "good" carbs that come from things like tubers and roots, or various kinds of squash.
 there is a bit of research here and a bit of research here. If i believed everything i read then i would never take showers because it would make me dehydrated. it's just my belief. could be wrong. could be right. I would think most people think antiox are good though :) Wut? Probably because a lot body fat tends to go into areas like the breasts and ass which a majority of men find attractive. 

I disagree about the improving upon thing. Both sexes have a lot of pressure on them from different sources to look and be a certain way. Now i can havd my own Dicbutt pet but paleo is not necessarily low carb.  you are still allowed tubers, which are high carb vegetables.  so you dont have to be in ketosis to be on a paleo diet. Most people know fuck all about physiology though, so that's not really relevant, that's a big part of why most americans are fat :P  Yep, that's pretty much my point. But more that the body won't magically evolve itself to *thrive* on whatever food we ate back then: only evolve to reach a certain local maximum (basic survival). I think that researchers have come up with theories which have tried to explain survival beyond reproductive years, though: like grandparent figures being beneficial for the overall "survival" (in a more broad sense) of a family. Mediterranean diet is mainly plant-based and high carb. 

Keto is meat-based and extremely low carb.  And those people spent all day tending to animals and doing physical work rather than sitting at a desk No, because i really doubt that any such studies have been made. This isn't really something that's even questioned by anyone who's got any kind of experience with decent olive oil. They taste dramatically different. 

Of course there are grades to "bad" and "good". I'm far from an expert, my taste buds can differentiate between shity oil and good oil, but not between good and outstanding. I'd personally avoid smoking, since i don't consume olive oil. To each their own. [And yet they still make mistakes](http://makezine.com/magazine/hands-on-health-care/).  yes there are. I know a big thing that many paleos mention is that people back then were not eating any breads or grains. which is true. however, are bodies change through evolution and what we eat is no exception. For example, the reason that many Asians are lactose intolerant is because their relatives didn't herd cattle for there milk compared to Europeans. Are body is changing and is evolving in all aspects.  &gt; they exclude eating carbs from breads and other shit. your body uses glucose from those carbs to start a important biochemical system in your body called krebs cycle

You can still eat fruit (e.g [Cordain's The Paleo Diet](http://thepaleodiet.com/what-to-eat-on-the-paleo-diet/)) and starchy tubers ([Cordain](http://thepaleodiet.com/sweet-potatoes-paleo/)) on Paleo. Being in ketosis isn't a requirement.

You don't need huge amounts of carbs to keep the cycle going, if you actually look at the cycle ([Wiki diagram](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:Citric_acid_cycle_with_aconitate_2.svg)) you see that you get oxaloacetate out of the cycle at the end, what you actually use is the Acetyl-CoA. The cycle can also use protein, and your body produces carbs through gluconeogenesis.

Here's a diagram of glucose sources in total starvation:

[Chart](http://imgur.com/C6FwCBi).

*Cahill GF Jr.* ["Starvation in man"](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/182420) *N Engl J Med. 1970 Mar 19;282(12):668-75.*

With ketogenic diets you eat around 25 grams of carbs per day which means the body doesn't have to use protein to get glucose.

&gt; Your brain is fueled on glucose and uses more than any part of your body. A result of eating too less of these essential foods can result in ketoacidosis.

As the chart above from Cahill shows the brain can use ketones as well.

Diabetic ketoacidosis doesn't happen unless you have an underlying condition:

*"There is frequent confusion between the dietary ketosis seen during a ketogenic diet and 
the pathological and potentially fatal state of diabetic ketoacidosis (DKA).  DKA occurs only in 
Type I diabetes, a disease characterized by a defect in the pancreas, whereby insulin cannot be 
produced.  Type I diabetics must take insulin injections to maintain normal blood glucose levels.  
In diabetics who are without insulin for some time, a state that is similar to dietary ketosis 
begins to develop but with several differences."*

...

*"Additionally, in non-diabetic individuals there are at least two feedback loops to prevent 
runaway ketoacidosis from occurring.  When ketones reach high concentrations in the 
bloodstream (approximately 4-6 mmol), they stimulate a release of insulin (8,12).  This increase 
in insulin has three major effects (24).  First, it slows FFA release from the fat cell.  Second, by 
raising the insulin/glucagon ratio, the rate of ketone body formation in the liver is decreased.  
Third, it increases the excretion of ketones into the urine.  These three effects all serve to lower 
blood ketone body concentration."*

*"In addition to stimulating insulin release, ketones appear to have an impact directly on the 
fat cell, slowing FFA release (12,22). This would serve to limit FFA availability to the liver, 
slowing ketone body formation.  Ultimately these two feedback loops prevent the non-diabetic 
individual from overproducing ketones since high ketone levels decrease ketone body formation."*

*"Type I diabetics lack both of these feedback loops."*

["The Ketogenic Diet"](http://books.google.com/books?id=JtCZBe-2XVIC&amp;amp;lpg=PA35&amp;amp;ots=dNISh1zQJz&amp;amp;hl=en&amp;amp;pg=PA35#v=onepage&amp;amp;q&amp;amp;f=false) by Lyle McDonald, page 35.

&gt;  it is a diet that long term can produce some very bad effects, compared to a wholesome and well rounded diet

Do you have any study supporting this claim? Please, no studies on epileptic children ([longer post on the issues with those types of studies](http://www.reddit.com/r/keto/comments/1pmu6h/keto_growth_retardation/cd3wzyj)). The Mediterranean diet isn't exactly low fat, but it leans towards plant-based fats.  It's pretty low on meats to begin with (1-2 servings daily), and those meats are typically lean poultry or fish.  Dairy is consumed, but not on the scale of most other Western diets.  Olive oil and legumes are the primary fat sources, really.

Meanwhile, there are *some* keto people who will tell you that you can eat steak and bacon daily.  The Mediterranean diet allows for red meat every couple weeks. &gt; This is really interesting as Mediterranean is basically a vegan diet plus fish 

No, it isn't

 Not enough people have watched House MD. =) They want it because they have been lied to by marketing. The chances of catching HIV from a person known to be positive who is being treated with antivirals and who is practicing rudimentary safer sex is much much lower than catching HIV from a person with an undetected and untreated infection who has a high HIV viral load and who is practicing rudimentary safer sex (and is perhaps not so careful).  The virus practically disappears from the bodily fluids of well treated HIV positive people.

Plus there is a pill that non-infected people can take routinely that further prevents HIV infection in a situation like this.  

Most new cases of HIV are contracted from infected people who think that they are healthy.  So statistically it is riskier to sleep with people who think that they are HIV negative.

These are the facts.  POZ friendly means that the person understand the facts, is thinking rationally, and has overcome their fear.  &gt; War has driven more invention and science than any other agenda.

No, *science* has. You owe science an apology for subjecting it to your lusts. from what i remember is that acetylCoa cant enter unless there is oxaloacetate. Acetyl Coa is not the problem with the cycle. Its the ocaloacetate. and oxaloacetate is obtained from what i remember from carbs Not to derail the subtopic, but I'm interested in learning more about the nutritional differences of Greek/Italic grown olive oils and American. 

Is there a resource you know of for this that explores this? 

 This isn't actually correct. On a very low carb diet the body can produce enough glucose from fats (a process called gluconeogenesis) to meet its needs for glucose. But for most functions ketone bodies replace the need for glucose altogether.

There's a big difference between nutritional ketosis (the state people try to stay in on a healthy keto diet) and ketoacidosis. A normal keto diet doesn't run any real risk of ketoacidosis.

All that said, "Paleo" itself isn't really healthy or unhealthy, just dumb. It isn't really keto. It's just a collection of principles based on flawed evolutionary reasoning that our bodies somehow adapted to our diets at some particular point in history when people lived in caves, and that we know what this diet was. In reality, we're in a continuous and imperfect state of adaptation... some aspects of our digestion were fixed tens of millions of years ago, and others have changed in modern times. We've never been perfectly adapted to any one period or diet and we never will be.

Keto is supported by a lot of good research, as are the Mediterranean diet and some others. Paleo is just a dumb trend that happens to help people insofar as it coincidentally overlaps with other diets that have an actual scientific basis. But this *always* ends badly. I've watched the movies. I've very recently converted to a Mediterranean diet to the best ability of a college student without a kitchen (this means dining hall "olive" oil whose sources can't be identified, so I don't use as much oil as the diet typically calls for).

I still eat insane portions, but they're insane portions of vegetables and fruits. You can't produce something out of nothing, so that title is adequate. Correct, I was replying to your comment, not criticizing it.  "Grandparent figures" would likely have meant tribal elders as much as  close relatives, I would guess.  you cant start the cycle in krebs though without some form of glucose. You cant take fats and proteins and start the cycle. If that were the case then we wouldnt have to eat for a long time.  [It would be plenty reasonable for people to object to non-indicated tests](http://content.time.com/time/health/article/0,8599,2053354,00.html). I played Spore.  This isn't going to look good. I'm all for paleo/low carb but I don't think any serious study has concluded if it was healthy or not. I am assuming you are in the states, but if you live near any Arabic groceries, they usually have true olive oil.  My ex was Lebanese and now I can use the store bought stuff.  Because freedom and America. Duh.  I don't know much about nutritional differences.  Main thing is, a lot of olive oils, especially Sicilian ones that are imported to the US are very heavily diluted with other oils, including non extra virgin/virgin olive oil, rapeseed oil, and sunflower seed oils.  Why they are allowed on shelves as EVOO (god fucking damn I hate that acronym, but I don't want to type it out again), I cannot say.

As for greek oils, I know literally nothing about them.  I primarily buy Californian, or other US varieties. Sure there is, theres 7+ Billion versions of you.

Each one being dependent on other people and their perception of you. But each one different none the less. Can you explain a bit more on the storage process of the metal? What reactions would occur without it being stored in oil? *sheds tear on copy of Wealth of Nations* High adherence to ANY DIET devoid of fructose as an additive will cause a lower risk of incident ischemic stroke.

Why?

http://www.jci.org/articles/view/37385

Fructose is the biggest culprit in the obesity epidemic in the west, almost everything in supermarkets has sugar added to it. I doubt mediterranean diets have any consumption of added sweeteners to their diet.

Yes, there is both glucose and fructose present in staple foods like pasta, rice, potatoes and bread but it isn't added in. Nondairy edible cheeze food product. Damn you, you healthy gay men! Some hospitals sort of require these sorts of "gentle reminders" to reccurrent offending doctors in the hopes that they'll stop and think about the reasons for ordering the tests they sometimes seem to just mark toughtlessly on the computer screen.

I'd say primarily it's about costs, but when it comes to more invasive tests, patietnt welfare is also a concern. In my hospital radiologists have full discretion for refusing to do tests they consider non indicated. The end result is that when you call to order a CT or whatever, you need to justify to a very knowledgeable colleague your reasons and suspicions for ordering a test. Some people in the ED department hate this, but then again, our rates of unnecesary imaging tests are very low, which in the end I think means patients receive a higher quality care. the low red meats and whole grains. The keto people are fervent believers that red meat is perfectly healthy to eat in large quantities. The oxaloacetate is regenerated, and your body still produces glucose through gluconeogenesis. It's not a limiting step for the krebs cycle, your cells work perfectly fine as is seen on studies with cyclists who see increased endurance at aerobic levels due to increased fat oxidation:

&gt; Important findings of the present study include a significant increase in the relative values of maximal oxygen uptake (VO2max) and oxygen uptake at lactate threshold (VO2 LT) after the ketogenic diet, which can be explained by reductions in body mass and fat mass and/or the greater oxygen uptake necessary to obtain the same energy yield as on a mixed diet, due to increased fat oxidation or by enhanced sympathetic activation.

*Zajac A, et al.* ["The Effects of a Ketogenic Diet on Exercise Metabolism and Physical Performance in Off-Road Cyclists"](http://www.mdpi.com/2072-6643/6/7/2493#tabs-5) *Nutrients. 2014 Jun 27;6(7):2493-508. doi: 10.3390/nu6072493.*

Ketogenic diets aren't that great at anaerobic work due to the lower glycogen levels. &gt;People treat epidemiology like it draws sound causal relationships between variables of interst but that really is not the case, it only correlates the variables.

While that is true, certain findings, when not pushed beyond the capability of the study, can suggest causality - the criteria are known as [Hill's criteria](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bradford_Hill_criteria). Nutritional science is a relatively new science, which means conclusions are often tentative and change rapidly. Also, they work in a field which is prone to fads. All sciences have fads, but this is worse, since the public and thousands of self-accredited experts are ready to make a mess of it.

There is another angle to it, namely that it's a subfield of epidemiology, medicine, and biology, and there are big unknowns in each. For instance, nobody really knows the etiology (ultimate cause) of Alzheimer's disease, but there are plenty of epidemiological studies to claim this and that as a correlating factor. Without causation, correlations are always suspect.

Personally, I'd say humans are fundamentally carrion eaters and generalists, which means that there is no one diet that is "ideal". We're not pandas that can only eat one rare subspecies of bamboo. The variety of human diets is such that you can find a diet that has *nothing* in common with another diet, both diets being still sustainable for large populations indefinitely. That implies that overinterpreting the conclusions must be avoided; everybody doesn't have to suddenly start eating a Mediterranean diet, only to see that the general features (vegetable protein, unsaturated fats, unhealthy foods avoided) are similar. Things often get saddled with unfortunate naming. Scientific theory kinda got stung by the same issue, a name that probably seemed harmless at the time but kind of took on a negative connotation. this is 100% untrue. you can not make glucose from fats. you can break down fats from energy but can not take a long fat molecule and convert it into glucose. Once fat is made into acetyl Coa it can not be made back into glucose. If that were true then we could use are huge amount of fat stores for constant energy.  Science begs to differ.

https://health.ucsd.edu/news/releases/Pages/2014-12-29-sugar-molecule-in-red-meat-linked-to-cancer.aspx

They've known for a long time that there was a statistical correlation but now they have actually found causation. Oh thanks! Phew, we almost got lost in unnecessary research there didn't we? Interesting, but where is the advantage over a simple wind turbine? Doesnt even have to contain a fan or moving parts IIRC. "Imitation Cheese" Keto isn't really based around any particular food group.  You could get all your fat from olive oil and nuts if you desired.   Extra Virginity: The Sublime and Scandalous World of Olive Oil
 By Tom Mueller

P. 173 "Yet the trade in bogus olive oil continued undisturbed: in 1922, two years into Prohibition, US Health Commissioner Royal S. Copeland observed that "there is more profit in adulterating olive oil than there is in bootlegging. The practice of adulterating this oil has grown until it has become a menace to the honest importers in the trade." 

Continued testing by the Department of Agriculture and the Department of Health, and later by the FDA, revealed extensive adulteration in the 1930s, 1940s, 1950s, 1960s, 1970s, 1980s, and 1990s **not only by oil importers but also by certain California producers** themselves. **In the late 1990s, having failed to halt oil adulteration, the FDA stopped testing for it.**

I did not read this book, there may be more information in the book.

https://books.google.com/books?id=yMEJKBcsb8wC&amp;printsec=frontcover&amp;dq=Extra+virginity&amp;hl=en&amp;sa=X&amp;ei=h6TOVKrfC4iqggSD14KIDA&amp;ved=0CDEQ6AEwAQ#v=onepage&amp;q=California%20&amp;f=false Yeah... I don't think most people, unless they're younger than High School, will think that at first. Or maybe fat in general isn't bad for you? Like at, at all? (not including trans) Tell me more Then again, a plain-old, absolutely non-invasive EKG has a ridiculously high sensitivity, and is instantaneous and as cheap as tests go, making this particular discussion about more invasive tests (emergency angio-ct, for instance, which I've seen done to a patient with a negative EKG with unsurprising results) absolutely absurt as far as examples go for this debate. the main thing is that you need SOME glucose to run the cycle. Yes of course you can use fat for more energy compared to glucose. especially when its aerobic. once a cylcist reaches that threshold that he is able to handle the longer process of breaking down fats, BUT you can't have that cycle working without some use of glucose. It isnt 100% fats burned at that point. it is just more fats used as fuel. glucose is still needed. We have three areas of storage. liver, bloodstream, and muslcles. Bloodstream is LAST resort. We still use glucose at all times. Just varys depending on what start your body is in. For example, when a runner starts a race he is in anaerboic conditions and will use glucose as MAIN source of fuel until he is able to reach aerboic state, at which that time he can convert to using fats more as energy. Check the label, i've found that spanish olive oil is made with olives from northern africa, and it's just bottled in spain.( all on the label) Also most legitimate "fancy" foods have a label by a country or region specific governing body in charge of ensuring the products authenticity. Things such as good balsamic, imported cheese, jamon iberico and of course wine are good examples of this How exactly would you assume a patient is to know when a case is negligence or a genuine mistake exactly? Just ask the doctor politely before making a claim? How much do you exercise? 

Without a diet diary it's impossible to validate the reasons why you had an infarct.  lmao where did you get that information from? I'm Italian and we have very strict rules on product denomination. Most of the "parmesan" on shelves in the US (and some European countries like UK and Netherlands)? Check if it's made in U.S.A. It is? It's fake then. Real Parmigiano Reggiano and Grana Padano (and all the translations) are "copyrighted" products and can only be made in selected Italian factories. Same with a lot of types of mozzarella, prosciutto, olive oil, wine and so on. Check for I.G.P./P.G.I. or D.O.P./P.D.O. products, that way you're sure you're getting the real deal. "Insurance companies don't settle frivolous lawsuits they settle ones that if they go to a jury they child possibly lose."

Those two aren't mutually exclusive, you know. If a story is sad or tragic enough, it could stand a great chance at winning and yet still be frivolous.

And I don't buy the 1% cost of health insurance line. Malpractice premiums represent a much higher proportion of physicians' income, so 1% is almost impossible. Not to mention the OP about defensive medicine. Negligence doesn't mean malicious. In fact, not cleaning the wound most likely was negligence. Well you haven't looked hard enough.  Don't have access to my Pocket App at the moment with an abundance of research for you... but anecdotally I can tell you doing a strict high fat low carb diet has put me in the best physical and cognitive health of my life after following it for 5 years. Yea all those wealthy Mediterranean villages up in the mountains. They have no clue the money problems real people in metropolitan areas have... This is what I cook with. The California Estate (award winner) is what I dress with.  As the Cahill paper shows you still produce/recyle around 90 grams of glucose per day via gluconeogenesis. Technically there is zero need for dietary carbohydrates.

And you don't have to eat for a long time, this guy fasted for a bit over a year:

&gt; A 27-year-old male patient fasted under supervision for 382 days and has subsequently maintained his normal weight.

...

&gt; Prolonged fasting in this patient had no ill-effects.

*Stewart WK, Fleming LW.* ["Features of a successful therapeutic fast of 382 days' duration"](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC2495396/) *Postgrad Med J. 1973 Mar;49(569):203-9.*

The people in the Cahill paper fasted for 5-6 weeks, the cyclists in the Zajac paper were in ketosis for four weeks. Theoretically.  Except for the 2-5% of insects in flour, maybe the odd unnoticed one in a piece of fruit, and additives like E-920 that are made from human hair but are fine to put in vegetarian food like buns and bread rolls. Yeah bigger brands are often sketchy, but if you're shopping for Italian products look for IGP/PGI &amp; DOP/PDO marks on them, it's guaranteed quality. Unless they fake the markings, but we have extra strict controls. you cant start and complete the full cycle without some form of glucose. Whether its from muscles, liver, or bloodstream. Cant take a fat and no glucose and expect to do krebs cycle. Does not happen Quantities are most certainly important  in a keto diet.  Those people use scales to weigh out their portions.  That diet very much relies on staying in a caloric deficit to lose weight.   Losing in court doesn't prove there wasnt negligence, it only means that negligence couldn't be proven without reasonable doubt. The two are not identical. Sorry to hit you with yet another question, but what is the best tasting preparation that you had a chance to experience when it comes to snails.  I've only had them broiled in butter, but I like that.  Is there a better way? Why? Farmed seafood is still much more sustainable than farmed land animals. The conversion efficiency is like 1.3 per 1 in fodder vs fish weight in farmed salmon, but much worse (around ~10 or so, IIRC) for cattle.

There are certainly bad practices in seafood farming, but it's about lack of regulation or corruption, which other food sources are in no way immune to. Robber fishing does exist, but it doesn't have to be like that; most developed states enforce fishing quotas. So, they get radio all the time, right?

Why would these signals be more important than all the others they're receiving every day?   This link is free: http://arxiv.org/pdf/1501.02191v1.pdf If they lie, they get punished by the FDA. That's why fruit "juice" lists the % of actual juice in the product.

Read the labels, do the homework. Be an informed and useful human fucking being. Piggybacking on the top comment. 

Extra Virgin Olive Oil means different things in different places. I read that Greek EVOO is exactly what you think it is. First cold pressing. Italian and Spanish guidelines only require a certain acidity level in order to label as EVOO. So they mix and match oils until their pH level is correct. This is why I only buy Greek or Californian.  100% wrong. if you dont have dietary carbs then you will use protein and fats as energy. The brain will not be happy. plain and simple.  Is it a big hurdle to open a website and sell direct? I'm serious...not being sarcastic. All-organic, Lesvos-produced EVOO could probably have a pretty lucrative niche market...but I'm of course no expert. Maybe there are international shipping considerations I don't know about. They don't think it's an either/or.

And keto is way closer to this mediterranean diet than a SAD (standard American diet). What are you talking about?  You do realise it's carbohydrates that alter insulin sensitivity?  red meat consists of saturated fat and protein with virtually no carbs.  The only way in which red meat would alter insulin sensitivity is if you were consuming more protein than your body could absorb in which it converts the remainder into glucose.   My point is that customers have the entirety of human knowledge at their fingertips, and have no excuse to not be well informed. If you find yourself swigging pomegranate juice 5 times a day, it would behoove you to research the product.

At some point you have to let people be responsible for their own actions. Is it more dangerous for the insertive or the receptive partner if the condom fails? Western diets are laden with carbs and sugar.  Everything is 'low fat' but loaded with sugar to make it taste better. Strokes are dependent on hereditary I've found found that keto lets you eat smaller portions and maintain a calorie deficit without feeling hungry all the time. the main was in a ketone state. Using fats and proteins as fuel. The cyclist are Better equipped than us to us fats as a main fuel source. They are still using glucose. not as near as much as we would use becuase they are trained. They are using a high amount of intramuscluar fat as energy becuase they have the aerboic capacity to use it Yes, but I only mentioned deviations of standard of care. In order for malpractice to happen you need to show a number of things (for instance that serious damage was done and so on).  It is a big issue in Italy as well. The olive harvest was very poor this year due to diseases and bad weather, so there will be a shortage of Italian oil and companies will definitely try to sell oil of various origins as locally produced. At least they have to write somewhere on the label (usually very small) whether it's a mix of oils of different origins or all local. There have also been cases of large scale olive theft from the trees...

Many historical oil brands have also been purchased by foreign companies and now sell all sorts of oil using the same packaging as what was formerly good extra virgin oil, so if you're not careful reading the labels you end up with poor quality oils.  Yes they are. Frivolous means without merit. Lawyers work on a contingency, they would NEVER take a frivolous lawsuit.  Beyond this, the total cost of med mal CLAIMS is about 10 billion which is about .6% of the total cost of healthcare. Some people claim "defensive" medicine puts the total at about 50 billion which is about 2%. Obviously, the former is objective whereas the latter is subjective. In any case, the better solution would be to standardize costs and care rather than reform torts. Don't believe the lie. I think there's more than diet to consider. While people in the Mediterranean do seem to be healthier, skinnier and happier it most likely isn't just due to what they eat, but how they live. This illusion is the problem with all fad diets. There is no easy way to be healthy, you can't just copy what someone else eats, the problem isn't that superficial.You need to change your diet and exercise habits and really be cognizant of the way you treat your body. Sure, it would be great if everyone knew the exact page they read something on.

I have probably 300 history books on my walls. If I read something and you asked my a question about history. Say I found the answer in one of the 6 volumes of a huge work, I'm not going to go dig the thing up for you. I'm sorry. It's the internet, not a thesis paper. You can only expect so much effort from a one-off post. My favorite was putting a lot of oil, salt and tons of rosemary in a huge skillet. Then put the snails face down and after a while you can start to toss them in the skillet. saturated fats are good for you.  I've given up on finding that or Cranberry Juice that isn't actually apple juice with 5-10% of what it claims to be. It's like David Chappels 'grape drink' skit, that might be a more on point label: Pomegranate Drink. It'd mean just as much as their ingredients do. I deal with both so I imagine I'm just fucked  But can't you just synthetically make hydrogen the same way with a bit of electricity? Of course biosynthesis might require less energy but maintaining live cultures and the right sort of living environments for the bacteria will probably cost more in terms of money and energy than just producing the hydrogen industrially.  Yea man, I am with you. It also makes me sick to my stomach when people don't eat only the things I like...

I mean the Mediterranean diet is basically the Mediterranean people eating whatever is available and plentiful from their area,  but Fuck them and their special diet... You have some glucose from gluconeogenesis, you don't need dietary carbohydrates:

&gt; After 18 d of starvation, fat oxidation
furnished 93% of the total RMR and oxidation of aminogenic
compounds provided the rest of the fuel requirements.

*Owen OE, et al.* ["Protein, fat, and carbohydrate requirements during starvation: anaplerosis and cataplerosis"](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/9665093) *Am J Clin Nutr. 1998 Jul;68(1):12-34.* Costco's EVOO has won awards for its flavor and quality... and happened to be considerably cheaper (orders of magnitude) than the others. Search google. We go through probably 3 liters per year.  Since the post was about mediterranean countries, we can take the pig slaughter's traditions of many European countries as an indicator of their meat input. Basically pig and chicken, animals relatively handy to have around, especially the first since it eats anything and nothing from it is discarded. So, white meat and a fuckload of grain and vegetables. Red meat nowhere to be found. If you believe in science, you can't possibly dismiss the role radiation should play in this decision (and with the contrast dyes they need tomuse, it's not even nearly the only risk either) to order a CT. It's odd that you'd call it a straw man while simultaneously citing the absence of case reports for it (a huge glaring straw man in itself). How many case reports have you read about lung cancer being directly and unmistakenly asserted to be caused by tobacco? Does this mean you don't believe in this causality association? America produces some of the best and widest breadth of food on the planet. Anyone that says "american food sucks" has clearly never tried to eat good food in america. 

And the US has an incredibly heavily regulated food industry.  it just seems longer
 what the hell do you mean that you dont need dietary carbs. yeah you do unless you want to sit and be in a starvartion state. if you think that you can eat zero dietary carbs and maintain a stable state then you are crazy.  fats and glucose are the two main fuel sources of the body. Brain relying on only glucose. so yeah, you do need carbs If we can find a great at to do this cheaply and on mass, potentially through genetic modification, it could make hydrogen fuel cells viable, currently electrolysis takes more energy to get hydrogen out of water than we could get from the hydrogen. The brain can use ketones perfectly fine, they even provide 4.5 kcal per gram compared to glucose. You still have normal blood glucose levels in ketosis even if the brain is using mostly ketones, and even lowering blood glucose levels by injecting insulin shows no effects of hypoglycemia:

(peak 2000 U/ml insulin is roughly 20 times higher than taking in ~100 grams of glucose):

[Figure 1](http://imgur.com/zLsPdTh) (Insulin)

[Figure 3](http://imgur.com/2mscaOL) (FFA levels and Ketones).

&amp;gt; After fasting 2 months, administration of weight-adjusted doses of insulin produced identical maximum insulin concentrations and disappearance curves. However, no insulin reactions nor significant rises in catecholamine excretion occurred despite equal extent and rate of glucose fall. Glucose concentrations as low as 0.5 mmoles/liter (9 mg/100 ml) failed to precipitate hypoglycemic reactions. During the postfast insulin tolerance tests, mean plasma 2-hydroxybutyrate (-OHB) decreased from 8.02 to 6.69 mmoles/liter (P &amp;lt; 0.01).

*Drenick EJ, et al.* ["Resistance to symptomatic insulin reactions after fasting."](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/5056667/) *J Clin Invest. 1972 Oct;51(10):2757-62.*

The brain works perfectly fine on ketones, and as the Cahill paper shows your body still produces some glucose. It's also that they don't have a sedentary culture. The entire Cretan enchilada of good food and exercise and community is really where it be at.  I think if Dickbutt became a physical, organic creature, it would be stomach turning, psychologically damaging, and probably horrifying to look at.  I never suggested such an approach.

I was suggesting that patients (or families thereof) not automatically assume negligence when someone dies or something goes wrong. Medicine isn't perfect.

I would assume you aren't suggesting a lawsuit everytime something bad happens simply because patients aren't as knowledgeable as physicians, right? The Mediterranean diet gets all the fashion points, but it's not the only possibility. I did try to [post a study about the Nordic diet](http://www.reddit.com/r/food/comments/2nke4i/the_next_big_health_diet_the_nordic_diet_reduces/) but I guess /r/food is not the right sub. The study itself is [here](http://www.julkari.fi/handle/10024/120376). The magic ingredient there is (sourdough) rye bread. Simply replacing part of the nutritional need with rye bread has definite benefits. Otherwise it's reducing red meat in favor of fatty fish.

It's not really new in that the North Karelia project ([original](http://www.who.int/chp/about/integrated_cd/index2.html)) showed reducing saturated fats with vegetable oils works very well: cardiovascular death rate dropped by 73%. But, it shouldn't be another fad, but a community-wide program that affects the whole population and not just a few hipsters. [Here](http://www.eatingwell.com/nutrition_health/nutrition_news_information/miracle_up_north) is a good article about it.

Aside from the Mediterranean and Nordic diets, the Japanese diet also has demonstrable impact on health. the brain does not prefer ketones........ I think the majority of us would agree that this is a bad idea. I don't get your assumptions about low red meat consumption and whole grains as contributing to thier Heath. Did you do a study with Crete s who ate more red meat and no whole grain to compare to a control group? It sounds like you're just pushing vegetarian (meat = unhealthy) and marketing (whole grains = super nutrients) with out any thing to back it up. 

Under another set of bias I could say that eating a lot of greens and eating a high fat (lots of live oil diet ) is healthy despite the source of meat and grains. What do you base all this on? It takes up to three weeks for your brain/body to adapt, but after that there's no major difference in cognitive performance.

&gt; Working memory improved by 1 year (P &amp;lt; .001 for time), but speed of processing remained largely unchanged, with no effect of diet composition on either cognitive domain.

*Brinkworth GD, et al.* ["Long-term effects of a very low-carbohydrate diet and a low-fat diet on mood and cognitive function"](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/19901139) *Arch Intern Med. 2009 Nov 9;169(20):1873-80.*

There are dozens of studies using carb restriction and ketosis for weight loss with no significant adverse effects, I posted this in [another thread](http://www.reddit.com/r/keto/comments/1qakxb/please_help_me_educate_my_so_about_keto_books/cdax0wm):

---

A review focused on discussion of why low carb works: 


&gt; In short-term and long-term  comparison studies, ad libitum and isocaloric therapeutic diets with varying degrees of carbohydrate restriction perform as well as or better than comparable  LF diets with regard to weight loss, lipid levels, glucose and insulin  response,  blood pressure,  and other  important cardiovascular risk markers in both normal subjects and those with metabolic and other health-related disorders.

...

&gt; The metabolic, hormonal, and appetite signaling effects of carbohydrate reduction suggest an underlying scientific basis for considering it as an alternative approach to LF, high-carbohydrate recommendations in addressing overweight/obesity and chronic disease in America. It is time to embrace LC diets as a viable option to aid in reversing diabetes mellitus, risk factors for heart disease, and the epidemic of obesity.

*Hite AH, et al.* ["Low-carbohydrate diet review: shifting the paradigm"](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/21586415) *Nutr Clin Pract. 2011 Jun;26(3):300-8. doi: 10.1177/0884533611405791.*

A review looking more at actual outcomes of low carb studies:

&gt; Meta-analysis showed LCD to be clearly associated with significant decreases in body weight, BMI, abdominal circumference, systolic blood pressure, diastolic blood pressure, plasma triglycerides, fasting plasma
glucose, glycated haemoglobin, plasma insulin and plasma
CRP, as well as with an increase in HDL-C. LDL-C and creatinine did not change significantly, whereas limited
data were conflicted regarding plasma uric acid.

*Santos FL, et al.* ["Systematic review and meta-analysis of clinical trials of the effects of low carbohydrate diets on cardiovascular risk factors"](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/22905670) *Obes Rev. 2012 Nov;13(11):1048-66. doi: 10.1111/j.1467-789X.2012.01021.x. Epub 2012 Aug 21.*

And a review looking specifically at very low carb ketogenic studies:

&gt; In conclusion, the present meta-analysis demonstrates that
individuals assigned to a VLCKD achieve significantly greater
long-term reductions in body weight, diastolic blood pressure
and TAG, as well as greater LDL and HDL increases when
compared with individuals assigned to a LFD; hence, the
VLCKD may be an alternative tool against obesity.

*Bueno NB, et al.* ["Very-low-carbohydrate ketogenic diet v. low-fat diet for long-term weight loss: a meta-analysis of randomised controlled trials."](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23651522) *Br J Nutr. 2013 Oct;110(7):1178-87. doi: 10.1017/S0007114513000548. Epub 2013 May 7.* &gt;  low intake of saturated fat

bad news for us over at /r/keto some of my most depressed periods were when I was exercising the most consistently. but exercise boosted by mood other times so..shrug. People on keto actually avoid eating to much red meat because eating to much protein in one meal can still cause an insulin spike.

But you can continue to keep showing everyone that you don't actually know anything about something you so clearly hate. I *sill* have a pet Pikachu!

My dad said it's never happen, but it will! Seriously? You think a lawyer would never take a case without merit, even if they have a shot at winning?? Ever hear of ambulance chasers? Fairly certain those folks are more concerned with settlements than merits of a claim.

Source on the % of healthcare costs? I'm happy to concede the point if I'm wrong, but everything I've read says otherwise. Spot on with your assessment of the I pact of olive oil and greens. However the 1-2 servings of meat per month is a bit of an exaggeration. Greeks are known around the world as some of the greatest restaurateurs; lamb, beef and pork are a huge part of their native diet. 

Source: lived in Heraklion for a couple of years  The American Dream. Can someone please explain why this isn't as cool as I think it is? Thanks. I was thinking the same thing.  In fact I wouldn't be surprised if these people cycle into ketosis on a regular basis.  Especially if they are only eating small portions of grains.  If they do live an active lifestyle they'll burn through their glycogen and their bodies will be calling upon fat stores for energy in no time. I didn't realize Hershey got into the olive oil business. That's depressing. Cause the only people looking for sex on CL are male. Women dont need to use CL to get sex.  &gt;My family lives in Greece making Olive Oil.


Was a big hint...  The brain can also use ketones as the Cahill paper explains, there's some more details specifically on brain metabolism here:

&gt; With measured cerebral blood
flow of 45 ml/100 g of tissue per min, and assuming a brain size of 1400 g the 24 hr glucose oxidation would approximate 24 g, which agrees well
with the theoretical maximum of 33 g calculated
from nitrogen execretion and glycerol from adipose tissue as described above. 

*Owen OE, et al.* ["Brain metabolism during fasting."](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/6061736/) *J Clin Invest. 1967 Oct;46(10):1589-95.*

The brain needs around 100 grams of carbs normally, but with carb restriction ketones cover the remaining ~70 grams of carbs. So what does this bacteria use as a carbon source? For commercial purposes, this might be one of the most important questions. It also says that the bacterium only does the hydrogen production when salinity and pH are very high, so ocean water with a ton of NaOH and buffer? So the Mediterranean diet includes smoking?


Brb, off to buy some olives and a pack of Malboro lights.
 i said preferred. the brain does not prefer I'd make a super-yeast that can make wine without all the sterilization and waiting and stuff.  Just add some fruit, wait 10 mins, syphon and drunk!  http://www.floridaoliveoil.com/  I've been getting my OO from these guys for a few years.  All good stuff. Something people seem to forget. You can't just go willy nilly and eat all the bacon all day.  You still need the deficit.  The reason most people respond well and lose weight is because carbs were making up a large portion of their calories before. At least that's what I found in my case and the case with a few friends and family.  Kepler-186f isn't exactly a new discovery though, it was discovered in April 2014. Still pretty cool to read about. This thread is about "large Italian producers mixing EVOO with other oils". Unless you have some evidence that you can tell olive oil dilution by taste, I'm gonna call bullshit. Personal house elf, here I come! Yes, also the Mafia is illegal, however, they exist anyway, and they are raping YOUR olive oil.

http://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2014/01/24/opinion/food-chains-extra-virgin-suicide.html?_r=0 [Only in Battlefield.](http://i.imgur.com/I3JunxL.png) exactly lol Thank you so much!  I'm off to find a supplier of escargot/snails. America has great food available for sure. But you need to seek it out and educate yourself about it. Will cost you a pretty too. After coming back from France I couldn't eat out at any restaurants because they where just so bad. You need to spend 200.00 in America at a fancy a French restaurant to get a 20.00 meal from France.

American restaurants are built on the concept of using cheapest possible food that the market will tolerate for the highest return. 
 Actually it's an important aspect. Social and Internet media is awful in healthcare, by publishing your public health clinic information where people are seeking at risk behaviours you can capture a lot of attention. By posting on Craigslist it not only shows services your clinic can offer it also indicates you are LGBT friendly and realistic about the current climate of sexuality and intercourse. 

TLDR: public health clinics should have their own Grindr profile.  I'm not implying this is wasted research, in fact I'm not against it at all! It's just that scientists have this vision of finding solutions to their problems and they stumble onto a new discovery, totally unrelated to what they were looking for. You can dream all you want about free/cheap energy, but the laws of thermodynamics still apply. It takes  tremendous amounts of energy to support the grid. So can I print my own DNA and keep some organs on standby just in case? No. If you eat the same amount of calories of junk food, as a Cretan eats Cretan food, over a long period of time there is absolutely no evidence suggesting you will be as healthy.  Because muh sophistication! Exactly my question! Agreed.  I can understand where the misconception comes from. I've been having weird cravings for cigarettes lately even though I quit about 8 months ago. Good to hear that one day I might could be healthy and smoke I'm not commenting on subjective health. Just body weight. The poster I responded to stated that they expected to be overweight due to eating olive oil with dinner every night. Obviously you won't be healthy if you get 100% of your calories from, say, ice cream. But if you burn a total of 2,500 calories per day and eat exactly 2,500 calories of ice cream per day, your weight will not change much if at all. A lot of evidence suggests that vegetable oil is very bad for you and can not be processed while animal fats are much better.

http://www.sciencedaily.com/releases/2013/11/131111122105.htm

http://www.heart.org/HEARTORG/GettingHealthy/NutritionCenter/HealthyEating/Trans-Fats_UCM_301120_Article.jsp

http://authoritynutrition.com/6-reasons-why-vegetable-oils-are-toxic/ Why would it matter what the brain "prefer"? The fact remains that when ketone levels increase the use of glucose decrease and you see no negative impacts on cognitive abilities (after the roughly three weeks it takes to adapt). 

Even injecting ketones increases it's use by the brain (animal study):

[Figure 1](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC2874681/figure/F1/)

&gt; The calculated local CMRGlu decreased with increasing plasma BHB concentration in the cerebellum (CMRGlu = -4.07\*[BHB] + 61.4, r2 = 0.3) and in the frontal cortex (CMRGlu = -3.93\*[BHB] + 42.7, r2 = 0.5). These data indicate that, under conditions of ketosis, glucose consumption is decreased in the cortex and cerebellum by about 10% per each mM of plasma ketone bodies.

*LaManna JC, et al.* ["Ketones suppress brain glucose consumption"](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/19227486) *Adv Exp Med Biol. 2009;645:301-6. doi: 10.1007/978-0-387-85998-9_45.*

The brain seems to use whichever fuel is available, e.g the [Randle Effect](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Randle_cycle#Fasted_State). I am not from America but I agree. Yes, there is a ridiculous amount of fake food causing that dreadful stereotype, but I had a religious experience at a deli counter in New York. Every mouthful was an explosion of beautiful cheeses, fresh and cured meats, salads and homemade condiments. It lasted me until breakfast the next day. 

Steak is also complicated and amazing in the US. You can't really fuck around with a slab of meat before it hits the griddle, but you can cook it badly, and it seems Americans are even more discerning than the French when it comes to things that bleed. You shouldn't have to go and Google every single product you purchase in order to verify that it actually is what it claims to be. Especially when its juice - if the label says "Pomegranate Juice" it *should* be safe to assume that what you're purchasing is freaking juice from pomegranates! That's not too much to ask for in my opinion. Otherwise you're just justifying any degree of deception. Of course I'd read the word 'controversial' somewhere in that article.... yeah it would matter if your brain preferred it Yes, cooking oils have different smoke points where they begin to burn. When this happens, toxic compounds are formed (including carcinogens).

http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Smoke_point

There are at least four types of olive oil usually found in supermarkets that have progressively higher smoke points: Extra Virgin, Virgin, Light, and Extra-Light. Put Extra Virgin/Virgin in your salads (and possibly for light frying), but use Light/Extra Light olive oil for frying/baking.

IIRC extra-light olive oil is heavily refined and has reduced health benefits compared to olive oil, so just using another oil altogether may be better for frying (canola, coconut, butter etc.). They eat ludicrous amounts of meat. Red meat. It oxidizes I'm still fairly young but this does not imbue confidence for my future self.  I feel like I have enough stress and life negativity that my brain could go any day now.  Source?  How significant is the difference?  Is it the diet or is their a genetic factor? &gt; It would be great to do a decent meta analysis of all that old data, but fuck trying to get it.

Have you tried writing to GISS and asking?
 Why? 

And as the Study above shows the brain increases the use of Ketones even when glucose is available, clearly it doesn't "prefer" glucose. Reminds me a bit of the wind belt generator concept a few years ago.

http://www.humdingerwind.com/ I know this doesn't answer your question but have you tried coconut oil at all? I used to use a lot of olive oil and switched to coconut. False.

It was damned easy and still is. Watch indigenous people do it today with traditional methods.

 Diet is only a small part of the equation.  Luck and Genetics play just as big of a role.   Yes, a lawyer would not take a case without merit. You may not agree with it, but lawyers are not in the habit of working for free. Some cases have less merit than others but there are very very very few "frivolous" lawsuits.


As for med mal claims: Here are two:

http://www.insurancejournal.com/news/national/2012/07/13/255557.htm

http://www.forbes.com/sites/rickungar/2010/09/07/the-true-cost-of-medical-malpractice-it-may-surprise-you/

the only objective fact that can verified is the actual claims- there are many self interested parties that inflate the "defensive" medicine number to try to jam through their agenda. 

 There were plenty of people who lived to ripe old ages. The problem with the way things are measured is that sooo many died in child birth driving down the average age. There were plenty of people who lived to ripe old ages. The problem with the way things are measured is that sooo many died in child birth driving down the average age. Imagine a dome covered pool of caustic soda ash and water where waste vegetation, food, organic material is just dumped in and the top of the dome collects all the passively generated hydrogen at the top through a selective membrane filter...or immediately used the hydrogen on site to fun a fuel cell system to generate electricity.

I think this is what we should be picturing here. Please, click on the "context" link and read the discussion, and then explain what you mean by:

&gt; i said preferred. the brain does not prefer

It makes absolutely no sense. "[Controversial DNA startup wants to let customers create creatures](http://www.sfgate.com/business/article/Controversial-DNA-startup-wants-to-let-customers-5992426.php)" by Stephanie Lee, published on 3 January 2015: http://www.sfgate.com/business/article/Controversial-DNA-startup-wants-to-let-customers-5992426.php Research supports that MeD may be neuroprotective, but the development of ischemic stroke, particularly lacunar strokes, is multi-factorial. 

Chronic hypertension (still possible with a good diet), diabetes mellitus, certain autoimmune processes, and other hypercoaguable states all play a role. Not implying that you have any of the aforementioned conditions, but just offering examples of different factors that may be involved. 

I personally have a few risk factors myself. Best we can do is keep fighting the good fight and do all we can to keep ourselves healthy
 Is this a serious source? Because I kind of don't want to believe that.. WHAT THE HELL ?

Sorry that is just utter tripe.

Red meat is by far the largest portion of these countries diets, goat, lamp, beef is insanely large - by far larger than pork or chicken.

Lets not forget that MOST of the Mediterranean countries don't even EAT pork.

What a ridiculous post. Thanks for these informative posts. No, I think most people don't picture bacteria generating big bang events. .     Rubbish.

Humans evolved to such a high degree specifically because of eating cooked meat. The energy access from that is enormous and was what specifically allowed us to progress into higher functioning areas.

Eating vegetable based diets found in our early evolutionary days required massive quantities in order to access even a tiny fraction of the energy output of red meat.

The whole humans didn't hunt and eat meat is an absolute lie. Its precisely what we spent our time doing and is precisely why we were able to evolve higher functions.

  I dunno man, Weird Science ended okay. &gt; quoted text Despite its name, this diet is not typical of all Mediterranean cuisine. In Northern Italy, for instance, lard and butter are commonly used in cooking, and olive oil is reserved for dressing salads and cooked vegetables.[6] In both North Africa and the Middle East, sheep's tail fat and rendered butter (samna) are the traditional staple fats, with some exceptions.[7] Indeed, one researcher concludes: "It appears that currently there is insufficient material to give a proper definition of what the Mediterranean diet is or was in terms of well defined chemical compounds or even in terms of foods.... The all embracing term 'Mediterranean diet' should not be used in scientific literature...."[8]

The most commonly understood version of the Mediterranean diet was presented, among others, by Dr Walter Willett of Harvard University's School of Public Health from the mid-1990s on.[9][10][11][12][13][14]  &gt;tough and fibrous roots

Which humans can not digest well, we therefore need to eat TONS of them to get even a tiny fraction of the energy we derived from meat - hence - why we ate so much and were hunters. So have some stats on "often came back empty-handed".

What absolute shit. so how long before that thumbnail shows up on /creepy...... I think it's more about how it's processed and what part of the end product gets sold. Like how in liquor you have the tops which get discarded because they have a lot of methanol.

Iirc the "light" olive oil is a shitty part that used to not be used for culinary purposes. Would have to do more research because I don't remember well. More animals are killed for vegetarian diets than meat diets. Just saying. Thats complete bullshit. 200 dollars in america will get you michilin starred food, and Ive had tons of fantastic &lt;20 dollar meals in the US as well as plenty of meh food in france.

American chain restaurants are most definitely pretty shitty, but its not hard in the least to find amazing food in the US.  And the majority of us would be wrong. 11 subject.  Meh.  TL; DR Don't forget that reading shit like this makes, me at least, even more sad and stressed. I'm not much for anger but the other 2...ugh. Okay, now that I'm not on mobile. I figure you guys would like to see the video by Thunderf00t, Phil Mason, one of the scientists and authors of this discovery. 

[He goes into pretty decent detail about the study.](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LmlAYnFF_s8) After the Gulf oil spill I stopped eating anything that might come from the gulf. After Fukushima I stopped eating any seafood. And with all the overfishing I don't think it's right to eat any seafood even if it was safe. And with seafood farming aren't the fish fed processed pellets made from other indiscriminately caught fish etc? I agree that people arent going to necessarily be experts on STDs because its boring, but I do believe that most people savvy enough to look for sex on a forum at least have knowledge of basic std prevention. I have friends gay and straight who have used Craigslist for sex, and Im not sure about if theyre more careful with Craigslist encounters because of its stigma and it being complete strangers, but they all have had incidents where hookups occurred in everyday life and they were unsafe.
I think the big thing is the stigma that stds only happen to dirty trashy people and since we usually choose partners who arent we take risks. I am guilty of it myself. Im not sure its going to be possible to remove the stigma against stds in society without removing the entire stigma of sex itself, and thats not happening anytime soon. If you see stds as something that happens to gross trashy people and you dont consider yourself or partners that, its easy to take the risk. I definitely agree stds are spreading from ignorance, but I think its more about perception and a sense of invincibility and less about not knowing how theyre caught This article is an absolute joke. Synthetic DNA is nothing new and genomics is much too complicated to engineer organisms on the scale they claim.

The only thing they offer is already available from a multitude of other companies. The only difference is that this will probably be cheaper and faster. Can I just eat hummus and spinach as a base, with a bit of smoked salmon and a good dark beer to round things out? We're more in control than is apparent. With epigenetics, our environment and diet/lifestyle choices affect how our genes are expressed. We can theoretically turn genes I and off with diet and other external factors.  i've seen that around. i've always been a little hesitant since its unfiltered.

i picked up some kirkland toscano olive oil instead and i think its pretty good That's not true.  I don't know where you live in America, but you certainly can find a good, quality, cooked from scratch meal in the US for $20, you just have to look outside of the big chains. thank you for your informative answer :-) 

 That's what might happen in a really controlled environment, but don't forget that there are thousands of other bacteria that are competing for survival. It seems this specific species of bacteria aren't so common, keeping them alive through cultures is probably the only way to produce them on a large scale. Dumping organic material and waste into a pit probably won't be enough to produce viable amounts of the hydrogen gas. This is the main issue with such a method and why industrially we don't see a lot of successful production of organic products that can be otherwise produced artificially. 

For example, imagine trying to produce methane gas organically by growing cows to do so (overlooking the ethical problems of trapping them in a room). It would be too costly to cultivate the cows just for that purpose, so drilling for gas although less environmentally friendly, is a much more cost and time effective option.
On the other hand, we have products like insulin, that can be produced effectively from genetically modified bacteria, and it's not too difficult to produce considering the amount of insulin we need is orders of magnitude less than the hydrogen gas demand of the world. Even though it can be done, insulin extraction from swine is still higher than artificial production due to its cost effective benefits. 

Once we find a way to reduce or remove that cost barrier, we will see great things happening with bacteria farms producing most of the organic chemicals and materials we need in society today. That is labeled as such.  I've never seen an olive oil container that is labeled as a mixture, they only say olive oil so it would be an outright lie to the customer to do that rather than putting a provacative label on and still informing you if you are willing to look past the colorful pictures.  Bit different. Negative, ghost rider. I eat primarily fat (keto, about 65% intake of fat) and lost ~100lbs in the first 6 months and improved all my metabolic stats - resting heartrate dropped, bad cholesterol dropped, etc. 

And yes, if you eat too much food in general a get fat, then yes, eating too much is bad for you. But "a high percentage of fat intake has a correlation with weight gain" is so very, very false. The reason you pulled that from your ass is that you probably grew up with bad science and the government teaching you the food pyramid. And you're also wrong about the med diet seeing as how they average an intake of 31 more liters per year than an american in olive oil intake. Med diets should be higher in fat than carbs with medium protein. If you're thinking you can do the med diet with nothing but olives and flatbread, good luck with that Enchiladas for breakfast, lunch, and dinner it is then. Thanks! [Link to one of the main researcher's video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LmlAYnFF_s8) I appreciate your fielding this. What I meant is simply, WE DON'T KNOW!!!! 

Private insurance, private hospitals, private doctors. This means no information/misinformation/deceit. I like the ideas that rockychunk is discussing. I really like the idea of bundled payment, unfortunately rockychunk is challenged to prove it is used and adhered to, damn difficult to do without investigative/audit reports. 

In short to believe the claims of a vested party e.g. any of the above, is simply silly and not worthy of further examination.

In addition, the links I provided pointed toward the inherent conflict of interest in this field and the massive profits to be harvested by extra testing, if it can possibly be twisted to serve a narrative about lawsuits all the better. Untangling it is the challenge, I say follow the money, which requires audits/investigations etc. which none of the private guys/gals above will ever tolerate.

 What we know about diet in mainstream science is appalling. We are symptom-based in our approach and pharmaceuticals are first line of defense...not the last. Most doctors are not educated in nutrition and much of our public recommendations are based in politics and bad science.

Look into Keto/paleo/low carb. Gary Taubes, Peter Attia, David Perlmutter, and others are physicians taking a new look at why the epidemic of obesity and the metabolic disorders is only getting worse while the current recommendations keep lowering fat.  I'm not exactly agreeing with their comment but to adopt that diet outside of the Mediterranean could be quite expensive.  Shhh, don't disturb the circle jerk while it's in progress. It's already been done and business have been made around it. [Wiki](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Artificial_gene_synthesis) says it's used for microbial stuff and vaccines among other uses. This particular article is sensationalist in the sense that the guy has optimized the production of DNA and hopes to make it more accessible for those with a spare 50k and want to have a business. 

Don't expect Jurassic World or anything, but the real world applications like DNA data storage and smart bacteria is still pretty neat. Honestly though, it's a new industry and it's full applications haven't been completely found yet. Messing with DNA is pretty powerful by itself and with the ability to quickly generate and sort through the bad batches does help. 

The gentleman in question who's boasting all the life creating nonsense is just trying to sell his product. Someone please tell me what is currently stopping me from being capable of printing Cerberus.  Not with that attitude you won't Nothing new here folks. Just a faster method for creating what's already done in the most sensationalist way possible. Just a guy trying to hussle his product is all. Don't expect dinaSAURS or spore or pikachu or some shit.  Not sure about olive oil, but I've definitely seen "pomegranate juice" where the only indication it doesn't actually contain any pomegranate juice is the lack of pomegranate in the ingredients list. Either way that falls into diet and doesnt change much *Goes to Google Hershey's Chocolate*  First thing I print? Morgan Freeman, so I can pull him around in a sidecar while he narrates my life in real time. I can't find the particular study but Costco's Kirkland brand olive oil is real. There's a number of results when I search for it but I'm on mobile and can't readily see a link to the specific test results and not an article. So the idea is that we *can* do it but we don't know how yet, except for very simple organisms (mainly editing bacterial DNA). I think one of the first practical applications will be [biocomputers](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Biocomputer). Pumpkin pie filling is nearly always yellow squash. We've been doing this for a while now (in 2010 or 2011 it was all over the news), this is about mass-production. If it bleeds, we can grill it. Thanks a lot for the classification :) DNA digital data storage is very interesting because the amount of information it can hold is industry changing. Bio computers (like any other type of future computing) have the potential to revolutionize everything we know. ...But we're still a ways off from that. 

It's a budding industry. It's not that we don't know how, so much as we don't have the resources and technology available to do anything on a grand scale. Give it some time. Git yer government out my Murica! So it's not just Starbucks coffee? That was a great read. Thanks! lower risk of incident islamic stroke &gt;After Fukushima I stopped eating any seafood.

Nutritionally, this makes no sense. The Baltic Sea is full of mercury and PCBs, and still the Finnish Food Safety Authority [recommends](http://www.evira.fi/portal/en/food/information+on+food/food+hazards/restriction+on+the+use+of+foodstuffs/dietary+advice+on+fish+consumption/) eating Baltic sea herring, given that it is not the only fish source. The reason is that even though the risk from mercury is real, it's small relative to the benefits from eating fish, particularly the fatty acids. If people stop eating fish there will be *more* mortality, from cardiovascular diseases.

Contrary to popular perception, radioactive poisons aren't strong carcinogens; they *are* carcinogens but to have a strong effect requires really heavy doses, Chernobyl-style rather than "I ate one fish last month" style. People are exposed to much more dangerous carcinogens daily than their radioactive dose.

Fish feed isn't purely fish, it also includes fish oil (which is a byproduct) and vegetable protein. Also, not all caught fish is marketable or natural in those amounts. In eutrophified waters some low-value fish fit thrive and fishing them out can actually help the situation.

Finally, for most people in the West, the choice isn't whether to eat this fish or that, but whether eat fish at all, vs. something both ecologically and nutritionally more damaging like beef. Of course you can.

Feed the cows the cheapest stuff you can and pump them full of antibiotics.

Make the slaughterhouse workers work too fast and you'll get mistakes like intestines getting punctured and contaminating the meat with E. Coli.

I'm not saying the meat at good steakhouses has these issues but it's definitely possible to mess it up.  Do you have any basis for these "massive quantities"? Basically every hunter-gatherer society ever subsisted primarily on plant life. They were gatherers first and foremost always because that's how you survived back then. Before you even knew what you had, you patented it, and packaged it, and slapped it on a plastic lunchbox, and now you're selling it, you wanna sell it. Thanks Robin Where do you get your olive oil from? I'm in the UK too and having a hard time finding decent oil! Well, if people don't care enough to read the ingredients then they aren't that concerned.  You could say the products are designed to give people what they want. So eating healthy leads to healthy people.  Interesting.  &gt;  the US has an incredibly heavily regulated food industry.

Thanks for the laugh, buddy. And gets you murdered apparently Man, I hope they remember to hook up the doll. given the difficulty that we might have finding olive oil, do you happen to know how many olives you would need to consume directly to get a comparable amount of the oil? Is it just omega 3's that are the benefit to the oil (something we might get through other means, like fish, avocado etc)? I'd wear a bra on my head for my b own Kelly LeBrock. Currently I'm eating mostly a gluten free Paleo diet. I exercise 2x a day and take about 19382929 supplements.  I've started a baby aspirin a day as well. Luckily my wife's dad is an MD with a speciality in this area so he's going to help me.   Looks like I'm not going to live long. What is this persistent myth about Hershey's not containing chocolate?  Junk science. There is no proper definition of mediterranean diet and there is no way to control what participants really eat. Alas, reddit is *full* of libertarians. Keto is the crossfit of the dieting world. Try to buy Greek or Lebanese and small brands. Look for clear glass and dark green oil Are you sure that's pure though? My understanding is that imported oils should be assumed adulterated. 32 liters of olive oil a year per person breaks down to  So, would this brand of olive oil be ok or have i been scammed?
http://imgur.com/AEWpqOR Maybe because oil is not fat.  Fun fact: The guy mainly responsible for discovering this Is Phil Mason, he is very active on youtube and goes by the name Thunderf00t. He has debated and challenged many self proclaimed scholars and scientist from muslim and christisan fundamentalists to feminist extremists. Nearly all of them claimed Phil wasn't a real scientist and therefor had no authority to debate or challenge them, despite the fact that he had videos where he played around with research reactors and neutron beams.

Well now Phil had his paper published in Nature.
So I guess Nature has started accepting fake papers from fake scientists now. how long does the 3 liter tin keep for ? We don't have a free market.

I mean lol, seriously. No matter what outcome there is under whatever system, people will blame the system they dislike. In your case, it's the free market that you don't believe in, so the problem is too much free market. Someone who likes the free market will argue instead that this is evidence of the failure of government regulation.

This is reddit, so the anti-free market camp wins. Greek here. No mention of lemon or feta cheese anywhere in article so I must challenge its validity 

Also Greeks love meat... Lamb; chicken ; kabobs.... Greek rusk is a whole grain? How long before they outlaw biological masturbation aids?

(serious question, on science and ethics, and I don't mean just for males, I mean for both) It's clearly labeled milk chocolate. The other guy is just a moron. Generally speaking most people in America mean milk chocolate when they say chocolate instead of real chocolate. Not everything in the world can be sourced. There are facts that have not been verified by meta-analysis of large scale randomized double blind trials. &gt;this is 100% untrue.

I gave you the name of the process. Is it so hard to look something up on Wikipedia? http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gluconeogenesis

&gt;If that were true then we could use are huge amount of fat stores for constant energy.

Um, we can. That's kind of the entire point of fat stores. Proper term? I doubt it. People who are naturally healthy are people that take care of themselves and therefore have very few or zero health problems.

And where does all of that start? Diet. &gt; /u/Gahzoontight was yet again huddled over the glow of the low resolution TFT monitor, waiting for reddit tabs to open.

&gt; Unbeknownst to him, this was the last hour of his life -

What the fuck Freeman? I told you to stop telling me this shit. goddamn.

(pointless as both comments will be deleted, enjoying yourself mod?) How are these people in terms of Bodyweight? Are they healthy but fat or healthy and fit? I'd rather live to 100 and be a little chubby, but it'd be nice to be slim too :) It's kind of ridiculous to state something as fact when there's no evidence for it either, don't you think? Cue the angry religious types saying we are "playing god" and demanding we halt scientific progress.  You also have to take in to consideration how quickly the calories are absorbed.  Eating 1000 calories worth of cane sugar, and 1000 calories in meat, the calories in sugar are going to be absorbed instantly (basically), and stored as fat because you can't use the energy that quickly. The government already enforces food product labels so it seems that point is moot.

So what you're really talking about is fraud which is also illegal and would open up companies to all kinds of lawsuits.  Given how litigious the US is there is a huge incentive to uncover fraud. I'm fucked... There is no such evidence. :@ Thanks for adding the link!  I'm pretty relieved. I have a specialty oil and vinegar shop that I get my oil from. I'd have to double check the name, but I believe Temecula has an olive oil that is the real deal, and American, which should reduce shipping costs.  So, you CAN get blood from a turnip? That's exactly what it is.  Fat is more solid oil.  Oil is less solid fat. Even "not from concentrate" isn't real. Googled for fun http://www.livestrong.com/article/122564-olive-oil-lemon-juice-cleanse/ California Olive Ranch

http://www.californiaoliveranch.com/

 Its not some shitty mafia crude oil being passed off as EVOO, its the good stuff.   Yea, people don't realize that "our ancestors were meat eaters" means they were eating spleen, bone marrow, and liver along with the red meat. But everybody wants an excuse to eat steak, no one wants to eat liver. Just make sure you make one before the creation of genetically engineered life forms inevitably becomes illegal (or at least heavily regulated). Idk r/pics? 
My understanding of /r/science is that it's a place for scientific articles and scientific discussion  Yes, deleted, but it's ok, as you say clearly it will be deleted, right by the save button - thanks for doing that, it's all we ask for on reddit, a mite more transparency. Anyone who would understand the topic would understand the title.  It is exhausting to manoeuvre the medical establishment when you have a TBI and the first symptoms are psychological... I basically had a friend pull some strings and paid for a few follow-up visits. I still don't know if the delayed diagnosis or the TBI itself is the cause of my vertigo and balance problems right now. I walk like an old man going up and down stairs. Although true, 1000 calories either way will even out over time. If you burn those 1000 calories, whether it was absorbed quickly and turned to fat or slowly you'll still wind up neutral. Not saying it's healthier, though, as there's some conflicting evidence that the faster its absorbed the more likely it is to cause diabetes. I'm sure it would be easy to get data from one specific lab, but I'm talking about looking at lots of different past projections... The naturalistic fallacy is involved in moral arguments. Pretty sure the morality of meat eating is not being discussed here. Ignore flags for a minute. The hardest part of Piezoelectric harvesting is how frequency specific the mechanical energy must be. This paper shows how you can widen this operating frequency band by adding a parallel inductor. That is pretty neat. If you are from America, just purchase California oils. 

We can't control what other countries do but we can control what gets done here at home. Many small growers in California produce a high quality product. You're saying that it's the consumer's responsibility to ferret out any and all active deception by corporations?  Wow, that's absolutely retarded. What did you have the MRI for? Also associated with a higher incidence of civil uprisings.  Yes! every 10 year old who ever played Pokemon just had their dreams come true! He does have evidence for it. I have a friend in Israel that sends me and my parents a bottle of olive oil every 3 months.   Best oil I have ever used.  Sadly I go thru it a lot with salads and cooking and such, so I have to find something else.  Best thing I can find is the stuff they still at Costco.   I would have titled this:

"Americans say they believe in science, but they really don't" How is milk chocolate any less real? As if dark chocolate is 100% solidified cocoa? As if the Swiss or Belgians didn't put milk in chocolate?  I guess *appeal to nature* is more appropriate. But yeah, we weren't discussing morals. I thought that obvious, you pedant. In other words, not exactly.  &gt; That's what might happen in a really controlled environment, but don't forget that there are thousands of other bacteria that are competing

Are there?  Are there thousands of competing bacteria in such an extreme environment like the Soap Lake?  We are talking about a pH of 10 or so with a salt concentration of 35-36 gm/liter.  Certainly, there are many algae which have a cell walls for protection but that is a mighty hostile environment.  It would be interesting to see the reference where even hundreds of bactreria species were isolated.

http://loesje.aslo.net/lo/toc/vol_3/issue_1/0051.pdf
 [Thunderf00t's video.](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LmlAYnFF_s8)

[The video linked in the article.](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=c3oyzHS9N3E) So you're saying I should save $50k and just adopt an opossum from my back yard.  Relax! Relax or you'll die, goddamnit! **RELAX!** Americans are strong on common sense, such as sensing when science has been corrupted by advocacy groups, politics and ideologues. Shipping would probably be insane. Bottles/tins are pretty big and heavy. Thats actually true... kids could only come up with that the things that make me sick make hindenburgs. Maybe thats why I'm sick.

...

I miss being a kid Nintendo will charge a fortune for them  An interesting thought experiment: what if we didn't think of those things as negative? What if depression was considered a normal state of being, and stressful work conditions were just how everyone lived? Is it the condition or or negative associations?

Disclaimer: been drinking If the semen is acting like a vaccine, it would imply the opposite. shuddup or the "free market' will come over and have a "chat" with your laboratory. Be a shame if it had itself a accident....  What is clean fat? The major purpose of a med mal lawsuit is to recover the costs of ameliorative care. It is not a jackpot for the plaintiff--the legal standard is to put the plaintiff in the position he would have been in but for the negligence. 

In countries with socialized medicine, there is much less incentive to sue, because the follow up care will not send you into bankruptcy.  Whats your opinion on "california olive ranch" olive oil from california? I completely avoid cheap blends from italy and etc.. Dietary ketosis CANNOT produce ketoacidosis on its own (i.e., in absence of type 1 diabetes). Ketoacidosis can only occur in a nearly absolute absence of insulin. Protein consumption stimulates insulin, and non-diabetics produce a baseline insulin that is sufficient to prevent ketoacidosis. We used to use NaK in grad school in my research group. We stored it in a fairly large ehrlenmeyer flask, with a Teflon valued joint on the top. No oil. Just dry argon over the top.  When you needed to draw some out, you put a septum on the tube above the valve, and attached a tube supplying argon, and drew it up in the syringe through the septum. We never exposed NaK to air because it will ignite in slightly moist air.  Olive oil has not been given a bad name. People who follow keto exclude whole grains due to carbohydrates. Whole grains are an important part of the Mediterranean diet. Also people who follow keto probably consume more red meat than what would be 'allowed' in a Mediterranean diet (Mediterranean diet = probably red meat a few times a month). Seems awesome, then.  Gluconeogenesis can produce glucose from glycerol, the structure that links 3 free fatty acids together to form triglycerides, the primary storage form of fat. As someone who had what was believed to be a transient ischemic attack at 18, this really interests me.  &gt;The concept is to put the DNA into the hands of anyone with an adequate 3D printer, effectively making it possible for everyone to create life.

What could possibly go wrong?  Future headline: Mystery invasive weed continues to wipe out crops across the world, scientists believe it originated from  Cambrian Genomics.  The embattled firm has been responsible for 3 plagues and is now facing more charges for wiping out the world's food supply." not always true. Like Greek Yogurt, I've never seen low fat versions have added sugar. I think we've still got a long ways to go until we'll be able to safely store data using DNA. There are numerous obstacles that have to be overcome such as sensitivity to temperature, damage to the molecule itself etc. Even living beings, who have been around for billions of years, haven't managed to preserve DNA for long periods of time. Aqua Teen Hunger Force already did it: http://seekcartoon.com/watch/24357-aqua-teen-hunger-force-season-4-episode-5-handbanana.html#.VM7NCFXF88Y I was having a throb in my temple consistent with TMJD last year. I had an MRI in July and it showed an increased 6mm signal in my left basal ganglia.  I got tested for everything and came up negative.  Got a more in depth mri read by a neuroradiologist and it concluded it was a chronic lacunar infarct of 9mm. Prob the same size as before.  Not as easy as it sounds.  DNA and proteins alone can not explain the complexity of life.  Human DNA only contains about 20,000-30,000 protein encoding genes, which is extraordinarily small; some grains of rice are known to have more encoding genes.  So where does the complexity of life come from?  Well, after proteins are made, they're post translationally modified by an extraordinary library of modification (there are over 300 known).  The largest class of these is modification by carbohydrates.  The sum of all carbohydrate modifications--known as the glycome--is believed to be orders of magnitude more complex than the entire proteome and genome.  By just changing one sugar on a protein, you can radically alter a protein's behavior, folding, half life and signaling (this is why antibody production is a major challenge.  Additionally, you can not predict the patterns of the glycome from genetic information alone; the glycome has no known code that would allow you to control in a template like manner like DNA/protein (it's a stochastic process).  


Inserting foreign DNA into a cell doesn't always produce the expected result.  For example, recombinant human protein production in bacteria doesn't always work, and it's because bacteria do not produce the same patterns of glycosylation that humans do, and proteins often have problems folding (which is why you have to move to yeast).  In order to get a fully functional protein to work in a human cell, you'd have to be able to predict if it could fold correctly (which still hasn't been solved).  Glycosylation of proteins has a very significant effect on protein folding, so you'd have to include sites for it (unfortunately exactly where proteins will be modified by sugars is unpredictable).  Even if you had the right sites for glycan addition to proteins so that they'd fold, you still can not guarantee that the right type of glycans would be added so that you'd have a properly functional protein (because again, the glycome is unpredictable with no code).  For example, just by changing one sugar on a class of proteins like ion channels, you can radically alter their gating properties.   here is some science for ya, MOST americans are fucking idiots! Jordan Schlansky was right. Recent? I've been reading that the Mediterranean diet is a model for healthy eating since 1995. So the future will have lots of flags and banners, and will smell like cannabis. Could be worse. Hope your all ready for winged rhinos.  *rubs hands together* No no, just chug down expensive olive oill Lactose is not a comparable to other novel food sources. Every mammal has the gene for the lactase enzyme and produces it for a period of time. A mutation allowing continue production of this enzyme is not a significant change (in terms of likelihood to occur with random mutation). One would expect adaptations to handle toxins found in other novel foods to come about much more slowly, since it won't be as simple as just flipping the switch to express a gene again. Don't be so obtuse. There is no reason for talking in such extremes that are obviously not true.  &gt; DNA data storage

not just DNA storage but also DNA processing.  Anyone want to visit my new wing restaurant?  VW3?  I'm using velociraptors.  Unrelated,  now hiring prep cooks. 

Qualifications Needed.

Reliable transportation.

Good work ethic.

Your own suit of full plate armor.

And a black belt or Olympic medal in wrestling. 

MINIMUM WAGE NO HELL THE INSURANCE. No, an appeal to nature is a fallacy used in moral arguments. The fallacy you think he's applying actually isn't a fallacy, you idiot. wikipedia says that they make it from chickpeas or barley... probably added to the flour mix; sound delicious to me ...and I assume that the double-baking process reduces some calorie load by turning some of the sugar into an insoluble form. Define real chocolate.  &gt; study abroad to study this diet on the island of Crete

it's a 'mediterranean diet' not a greek diet

you know there are 4 other countries (arguably more) that are on the mediterranean?

each country's diet is different

you should have studied geography before you went


 You spent too much time trying to show you could and never took the time to wonder if you should.  No hell the insurance?  Oh hello yeast that brews morphine. Your my best friend! "Learn from me, if not by my precepts, at least by my example, how dangerous is the acquirement of knowledge, and how much happier that man is who believes his native town to be the world, than he who aspires to become greater than his nature will allow." They're starting to care - see the budding issues regarding the labelling of certain cheeses. Go Team!  I beg to differ only under the circumstances of chilli cheese dogs

Other than that I agree This. Don't even get me started on the amount of spanakopita and pastisio we pack away during family parties. Yes. Emphatically.  Now is the time of the RPG experience. Monsters will run rampant. Darkness will come. A hero will be revealed, and it will only cost about tree fiddy. I was amazed when I learned of the studies done on it. At a recent food show I was taking to some people who were stuffing certain attributes of evoo and their effects on the body. 

One brand I trust is Estia on Amazon. Yes, it's a shameless plug but I know the importer and it is great stuff that tests much lower in acidity than claimed on the label. Fuck. You should read Prey by Michael Crichton. It talks about this very thing. It could be worse: what if positive emotions where associated with a risk of getting a stroke.. &gt; bug chasing

TIL... And so begins the next Twilight trilogy: Edward the vegetarian turnip molesting shiny brooding emo scene reclusive but popular vampire. Wake up electric sheeple! &gt; I have three kids, and I work all week with software developers.

Damn software developers. Sweet I fucking love gyros. Health, here I come!  "It's not their choice, just the hand they were dealt", is not an end all be all.  There are coping mechanisms, ways to reduce stress, that can be learned and used.  With the information that studies like this could lead to, more emphasis could be placed on improving people's moods or reactions to stressful situations in order to prevent health issues down the road. That, I imagine, is the point of studies like this. It isn't to be mean spirited, there is just information to be gained to hopefully help people. I read the title and thought this was an /r/WritingPrompts post. The difference you can see is in the prices but not only. I don't know of non-European producers, but in what comes to olive oil, I tend to be picky as I am Portuguese, and during my whole childhood and teenage years my grandmother and mother were using olive oil for cooking or frying traditional foods (potatoes would be fried with "normal" cooking oil).

First, make sure that when you flip the bottles, choose the one that takes more time for the air bubble to reach the top. Then when you shake it, the smaller the air bubbles, the more viscous. The darker also the better.

I know for a fact that most "industrial" companies mix pure olive oil with cooking oil to increase the profit. So I tend to run away from "big names" of Spanish, Italian or Portuguese olive oil brands. Nevertheless I do not know their smaller producers, as well as the ones from Greece, or Croatia, etc..

What I know is that I live in Poland and I choose Portuguese olive oil. I can find it here from a reliable brand and from all the stores I have looked, most brand give me chills.

So for instance just by looking at Wall Mart, [this ](http://www.walmart.com/ip/Olive-Garden-Extra-Virgin-Olive-Oil-25.5-fl-oz/34997141?action=product_interest&amp;action_type=title&amp;placement_id=irs_middle&amp;strategy=SMT&amp;visitor_id=OvMO7fl-6b54gRaribidzA&amp;category=&amp;client_guid=efd65e0f-86bd-4b85-8d97-09c91cbd7df1&amp;customer_id_enc=&amp;config_id=106&amp;parent_item_id=10316039&amp;parent_anchor_item_id&amp;guid=97bc5123-834f-4fa0-8ad2-3150e7ff31ea&amp;bucket_id=irsbucketdefault&amp;beacon_version=1.0.0&amp;findingMethod=p13n)was the best looking (a dark bottle protects the contents better from sunlight...).

As for Portuguese brands I leave you with some examples:

https://gallooliveoil.com/pt.aspx
http://esporao.com/en/azeites/extra-virgin/
http://www.coopmourabarrancos.pt/en/index.php?option=com_content&amp;view=article&amp;id=51&amp;Itemid=56 I dunno man, I mean it's a pet dickbutt. Think of all the karma! Feel free to move to the libertarian paradise that is Somalia, then. You can get good stuff here, but you have to look. Bi-Rite in SF has good olive oil with 'bite' and those green and spicy notes. The shape and color of the bottle look nice... when you shake it, does it forms minuscule bubbles that rise to the top slowly like in an oil or very fast like in water? 
"I thought it's never happen." For good extra virgin, Colavita. But you shouldn't cook with that, the acidity is too high and the flavour too strong - you'll want to use it for salad dressings and other things where you actually want to taste it.  Not only, they also buy lots of olive oil from Portuguese plantations and mix sunflower oil in it... to gain more... Do people really have no choice in the matter, though? We can't always change our surroundings, but we might sometimes, maybe most times, be able to alter our attitude towards it, not dwell too much on the negative, not worry about things that we can't do anything about right now, etc. I personally have found in the last six months that my attitude and the things that I choose to dwell on can either lead me down a very bad downward spiral, or help me get back up again and start feeling like I actually might have a life that's worth living. No they'll probably agree Think of all the nightmares, the drooljizz, and the fact that it's version of humping your leg would be a traumatic rape. Oh, and it smells like dicks and butts. IDK.....for a typical American Reataurant/Host, the bragging rights to having such a brand on hand could make it well worth it...if it is good, of course. 