"Wait, let me explain! We were just playing Mario Kart!"                 

Neighbour: "Listen, I don't care about what kind of kinks you're into, just please keep it down, alright?" The irony is that we are aware of the situation and genuinely try to keep it down/hold the moan. /r/holdthemoan 

Edit: NSFW I am aware. Username checks out. Which is a **NSFW** link for anyone curious. My bad. Edited.  Why is this purple? I have never even heard of it! Might as well see what I may or may not have clicked before. How was your adventure? Don't remember ever seeing that sub before. At least it was the good kind of nsfw. Solid 6/10. You're like the anti-IGN. "Great sub. Very enjoyable. D-" This game is wildly mediocre, uninteresting plot, boring story, lots of grinding. 10/10 "Destiny is GOTY" Thank you for the best subreddit discovery all week for me. I have the same issue since I live with a roommate, and it sucks. I love making her scream. She also loves being spanked hard which I can't do because of my roommate. I *really* upset a housemate by saying 'look, is there any chance you can keep it down in there. I don't mind the shagging, that doesn't take a particularly long time.  But the talking for hours afterwards is keeping me awake.  &gt;But the ~~talking~~ crying for hours afterwards is keeping me awake.

FTFY Shoot me and my roommates used to have contests to see who could make their partner scream louder! The winner would get a golf clap when they finally came out of the room. I'm not 17 anymore, but that does sound like fun. When I was 17 my roommates were my parents Is your roommate uncomfortable with hearing you have sex? No he is not. But I don't hear him when he has sex with his gf. I don't think its respectful to have loud obnoxious sex that he can hear. Maybe you can get each other noise cancelling headphones for Christmas. :) All I can say is that a roommate with good headphones is a wonderful thing indeed.  Especially if you're into... things. Hold the moan...

Love isn't always in tone... 

Woah no no... Great take on the song...it'll be in my head like that from now on. "Look, I heard you say 'God dammit now there's sticky shit all over the place'"

"He used a Blooper"

"I don't want to know what you call it.  You should have asked him if he and his 8 y/o son wanted to join you next time.....for some dirty filthy Mario Kart.  Neighbor: "Hey, you know I would really appreciate it if you could.. you know... be more quiet during your... evening activities."

OP: "Yeah sure, but you can join in any time you want."

Neighbor: "WHAT"

OP:"Sure, you can also bring your kids with you."

"..." OP is now on a list  My SO is a defense attorney.  We have a game like "That's what she said," but instead say, "And that's how you end up on the sex offender registry."   Your sex offender is a defense attorney? Ah, the [ol' Reddit sex-offenderooooo](http://www.reddit.com/r/AskReddit/comments/2skt0n/whats_something_that_is_considered_wrong_that/cnqh651?context=3) OH NO, NOT THE RABBIT HOLE

HOLD MY HAND, IM GOING IN I'M GOING IN TO SAVE HIM Day 23: Food and water supplies are running low. /u/drawture hasnt found me yet.

Morale is at its lowest.
 Day 1: Haven't found /u/Uber_naut or /u/drawture yet. Blocked from entry by a cat saying the servers are busy, and was promptly redirected to a deserted island with a volleyball and mysterious packages that appeared on the beach. Help. Took me 30 backspace clicks to finally return. I'm a changed man  And that's how you end up on the sex offender registry. Hold my parole officer, I'm going in. Will some one please explain what the fuck I just did? 

What is this? 

How are all of these linked? 

How many rabbit holes are there? 

ELI5? Seriously I'm pissed and need help! 
 Calm down there friend, you're safe here. We've all been down that hole. Seen things. Things that'll make a grown man sweat like a pig in a summer rain storm. 

You just mosey on down to /r/switcheroo and you'll find the answers you seek. Just don't forget to hold on to your hat. You'll need it down that hole young man.  [For the uninitiated](https://www.google.com/search?q=out+of+the+loop+reddit+switcharoo&amp;ie=utf-8&amp;oe=utf-8) Well, I have a new game to play. Can't wait for tomorrow morning.  who cares, ALPHA AF bruh Established so much dominance  We're the Aristocrats! OP should mention she's only looking to get some kisses. Maybe a little touching the stick, but nothing more. https://i.imgur.com/J6LMJoM.jpg That dude's been playing mario party on n64 No this man has been playing Wario Ware Inc on the GameCube. "Tease the cat" wounds look just like that. Promise.  Clearly you never played Tug of War against the AI on hard. Risky click of the day. Now *that* would've been a fuck-up to behold.  "Man you thought that was loud?  You should bring your kid over next time we haven't played with kids in forever!  Hopefully he doesn't get screwed from behind as bad as I did last night!  Right when I was about to finish too.  It's okay though the night before I screwed him with a banana so hard it sent him into the wall.  Anyways, I'm sure you and your kid can teach us a thing or two, we can even team up!" If you could become anything you wanted, which dinosaur would it be? Oh no.   I'll see you back in standard time where you belong.  "You'll be back!" "They always come back for my coochie in the dark! SCREEAAACH"  Pterodactyls have a 14 ft wingspan, she's flapping about knocking stuff off the walls.  Now you have to go to Target; you're on a budget and Target isn't cheap and then you see the frames.  Who can turm down sterling silver? I can't. &gt;brushed silver

FTFY *(simultaneously)*

***Velociraptor!***

Did we just become best friends? You want to be a [small feathered dinosaur](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:Vraptor-scale.png) that is about the size of a turkey with a long tail? Utahraptor for the win.  Suck it velociraptors.  More a movie reference than anything else, but sure, why not. I pick ankylosaurus. Big ass tanks with warhammer tails.  Pterodactyl.  They're able to fly but still badasses And they urinate soundlessly

(the 'p' is silent) Swoop was cool. But Grimlock was the man.  Me Grimlock gives you upvotes! And they will ptear you a new asshole if you aren't careful. Those aren't dinosaurs.  You're on a list now *applause* Well, fuck you too. If I'm going to hell for laughing at this, so be it. "if you're a d this fuck you" what? it took me way too long to figure that out. This needs all the upvotes. "I rear-ended her with my starman and she got close to the edge" Daughter* "Oh hey man, why don't you and your little girl stop by. I could teach her a thing or two."With my social awkwardness this would not go well at all. Lol This is when neighbor realizes that some day, sooner rather than later, his little girl is going to Mario Kart with someone and she'll never be his little girl again. "if she comes back blue shelled once, I'll break your legs"
 If it's any consolation, I play Mario kart just as serious and dirty as you. If you can't make the jump on koopa troopa beach you shouldn't be playing and I'm going to let you know using as many dirty words as possible. Look at that mushroom, Mario! Blue shell does fuck you a lot From first to sixth... Meanwhile he is celebrating and doing a victory dance.  And just a few yards away from you, a father was having one of the most awkward conversations in his life.

"You see, Timmy, when you love somebody you want to give love to them, right? To *make* love to them and make them feel loved and special. That's why our neighbour is screaming bloody murder that she wants to get fucked. Hear that? She just did it again. It's the magic of love, Timmy. The magic of love. Good night, son." I read this in Ned Flander's voice. Well done.   I just have a dirty whore mouth while playing Mario kart.

*Peachy.* You may take your *bow ser*. Now go "it got dicey when my husband couldn't find the little button but really turned south once I broke the joystick"

My and the wife are the same, really nasty banter when playing computer games. Yeah, we get super competitive. I often have to apologize for the things I say during video games. Mostly calling him my little bitch. Were it not for the fact that I warmed up my wife's car for her this morning, I might think you were her. [Please please please do this after you beat him.](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=iB1uQmvmh_k#t=1m37s)

Go to 1:37 if you're on mobile. Screw you, I'll watch the entire vid if I want.  Do as you're told! If your husband can get you to scream that during Mario Kart, I can only imagine what the sex is like. He must be a vagician.  He certainly is. [Can you point him out for me?](http://img.pandawhale.com/post-12633-We-demand-to-be-taken-seriousl-sUjc.jpeg) Unfortunately he is not pictured. But I'd say he's a bit more like Randy Marsh, seeing as he does cock magic and all. Who is Randy Marsh? I only know Lorde   I know Lorde, yah yah yah.  Lorde knows Ohhhh, Lordee Lorde Lorde (ya ya ya) TIL vagician. That's amazing. Not Original:

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NEcZmT0fiNM

at 1:40 It's called an *illusion*, Michael /r/nocontext Plot twist: OP confirmed validity. I made sure her comment was also linked in the post Touche. Nice try, OP's husband Living in a 1 bedroom apartment I can relate to this. Things can get pretty hot and heavy during Mario Kart and I've often wondered what my neighbors think the SO and I are doing. They think you are being dirty whores. Sometimes a man just needs to feel pretty. It's a me, Mariooooooooh gawd, I'm cumming so harrrrrrd!!!!!  Dat rumble pack though... Dat rumble that makes you humble. So goooood!!  -sets down controller-

That escalated a bit too quickly for me. [Relevant xkcd](http://xkcd.com/290/). [Image](http://imgs.xkcd.com/comics/fucking_blue_shells.png)

**Title:** Fucking Blue Shells

**Title-text:** You can evade blue shells in Double Dash, but it is deep magic.

[Comic Explanation](http://www.explainxkcd.com/wiki/index.php/290#Explanation)

**Stats:** This comic has been referenced 18 times, representing 0.0371% of referenced xkcds.

---
^[xkcd.com](http://www.xkcd.com) ^| ^[xkcdsub](http://www.reddit.com/r/xkcd/) ^| ^[Problems/Bugs?](http://www.reddit.com/r/xkcd_transcriber/) ^| ^[Statistics](http://xkcdref.info/statistics/) ^| ^[StopReplying](http://reddit.com/message/compose/?to=xkcd_transcriber&amp;subject=ignore%20me&amp;message=ignore%20me) ^| ^[Delete](http://reddit.com/message/compose/?to=xkcd_transcriber&amp;subject=delete&amp;message=delete%20t1_cnv3ssj) TYFU but not having awesome sex yesterday.

If you're going to do the time you might as well do the time. I will be remedying this as soon as I get home. with your dirty whore mouth?  

(sorry, I love that line.) I don't believe there is a way to answer that without saying RIP to my poor little inbox. [Weiners are coming](http://thepunchlineismachismo.com/wp-content/uploads/2013/08/2013-08-19.jpg) https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XjzC2DRgEo4 &gt;poor little inbox.

 At least it isn't your poor little outbox.  You're going to have a lot of dick shoved into that poor little inbox Is that what he calls it? Reddit, I think we just got someone laid. I think that was happening regardless.  This comment is a disaster.  

A misspelled word and a complete misquote of a common idiom.

I love it.  

Upvote.   Who you calling an idiom? Story time. Me and my best friend go over to another friends house. She had Mario kart so we got wasted and played.  2 hours of alcohol screaming and swearing the police walk in. No knock, no warning they straight walk in asking "what the hell is going on in here?" And then immediately died laughing when they saw us holding N64 controllers. 

They knew exactly what was going on. The call had been made because apparently residents thought our friend who I'll call Kristin was being raped. 

My friend turned to them and said "sorry officers the only rape happening here is the fool in first being spoon fed blue shells by the other two assholes in the room" 

We got a nice suggestion we keep it down and informed we made the officers' night. Haha, nearly identical to my story on here as well. Ahhhh, passionate karting.  You don't have to come up with a fake name for your friend if you're not going to use the name once after making it up. So here answer me this, after the officers died of laughter did you and Kristin decide to hide the bodies? Kristin, as it turns out, wasn't into hiding bodies so i eventually had to hide hers. Damn Kristins are always the ones that can't handle a little secret. Sometimes when people can't handle a secret they become the secret My brother and I play Soul Calibur together and my god I make the most orgasmic sounds when I play. 

"COME HERE, OH! OH MY GOD! (Critical Edge Lands) *UHN!!!!*" Bro, your neighborhood thinks you're fucking your brother. (   )  Lol I used to troll my brother by playing a high top speed character like wario or bowser and sitting in last place till I got the blue shell then pull out the pro status driving to get to second and fire the victory shell. I hate you. I think everybody hates that guy. So now, if anyone's kids hear the neighbors actually having sex they can explain the sounds as, "Oh, they were just playing Mario Kart".

In fact, "Playing Mario Cart" can be a new euphemism for sex.  If that happens, I bet OP would be pretty proud Invite them over. Just like sex, Mario Kart gets better with more people. Except, the framerate drops to 30 fps. 

You can't have no awesome orgy with no 30 fps.  The blue shell is a damn dirty commie bullshit weapon introduced to ruin the game.   SNES is where its at.      

I no longer play Mario Party because I can't stand how the game tries to force closeness in the score. /u/tyo-translate The blue shell is a damn dirty commie bullshit weapon introduced to ruin the game. SNES is where its at.
I no longer play Mario Party because I can't stand how the game tries to force closeness in the score. DA BLUE SH3L IS A DMN DIRTY COMEI BULSHIT WEAPON INTRODUCED 2 RUIN DA GM311!!1! OMG WTF SNES IS WHERA ITS AT!!11111 WTF I NO LONGER PLAY MARIO PARTY B/C I CANT STAND HOW DA GME TREIS 2 FORCA CLOS3NES IN TEH SCORE!11! Better than Nick Swardson's Neighbor's thoughts

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wIRIkjArxOU&amp;t=2m19s This reminds me of one my favorite stories from childhood:

My brother, 8-10 years old is in a heated Kart game, and screaming "Mario! I'm going to kill you! Fuck you Mario!" until the doorbell rings. It's the cops. Apparently 3+ of our neighbors called 911, convinced they were hearing the early stages of genuine murder. Apparently the police blocked off one end of the street. 

My father explained the situation to the police officer, who turned around and shouted to his comrades "It's all right, it's just Mario bruddas."
 I love that that was probably all the explanation the cops needed. No looks of confusion, no requests for clarification. Just, "Oooooh. He was playing Mario. Of course!" Better to scream sexual obscenities playing Mario Kart tha to scream Mario Kart references during sex. Call this one a win. https://i.imgur.com/pwxaK7W.gifv That made me slightly angry just watching it. I have no idea why screaming means he has to explain sex. Just say people are yelling Just say that they are ghosts haunting the house and that if he's bad, they'll stuff him in the attic. Might as well hit two birds with one stone Yeah, neighbour is an idiot. There is absolutely no reason he "had" to explain it. The kid had no idea why they were yelling, and at 8 probably had no idea what "fuck" means anyway. I think everyone has a dirty whore mouth while playing Mario kart. my ex and I used to play Mario Kart to decide who would do things like buy dinner, pay the water bill, be on top etc. Needless to say we had lawyers on the phone. "Fuck I just slid on top of your banana!" "well now im incredibly weirded out that all those times i was masturbating it was just to you guys playing mariokart" If I could find a woman who would have sex and play video games with me I'd be so happy! There are literally DOZENS of us! Mwahahahaha. Until she beat you in Halo and showed just how much of a candyass you are. [deleted] No objections. Pretty certain that is why I got married in the first place. They just met up for kisses though. jesus. every. damn. thread! I just read this to my boyfriend. He asked when our neighbor talked to me because he thought it was my fuck up. I have a dirty whore mouth during Mario Kart too.  I read the title and I thought it would be about your band, the Pinheads, doing an audition for Huey Lewis. "I'm afraid you're just too darn loud." "Fuck Me!" is the only proper response when you are ruined by a blue shell. No no no! You don't understand! My husband and I were playing a game and he kept fucking me from behind!.. Wait, come back... This happens to me and my paper thin apartment walls! Just swap 'Mario Kart' with 'CoD' and 'sex with husband' for 'abusing my dog'.  When the blue shell launches drop to 3rd place. You should be good.  Are you going to go back to the neighbor to tell them that you were just playing Mario Kart?

We'd like to know their response! I may but the way he said it and just walked away makes me think he doesn't want an explanation. He just doesn't want to talk to his daughters about sex ever again. This is a nick swardson bit. The Blue Shell claims another relationship.  When will its tyranny end? I'm pretty sure many of us wish our sex life was as good as our gaming life. Show him the game. he would understand. Damn heavy classes always pushing people off...

also two words: Rainbow Road  No, TYFU by not telling your neighbour that you where just playing Mario Kart and he should get his mind out of the gutter... 

 Abstaining from laughing afterwards is optional...  The cops came to my house last week with a noise complaint because me and my roommates were playing mario kart and our neighbours didnt approve of the added commentary. 
that shit is intense.  You should have told him, could have been a great laugh between you and strengthen rather than deteriorate your relationship.  &gt; dirty whore mouth

Now all I hear is your story but being told by Frank Reynolds (Danny DeVito).  Dirty mouth? Clean it with orbit chewing gum!  Too funny! One time my sisters and I heard our parents having sex late one night.  When we confronted them the next day this was their excuse too.  It's still a mystery whether they were actually running Banshee Boardwalk, or just fooling around in mom's Yoshi Valley.

 I just have a dirty whore mouth

Upvote right there
 To the people are saying that this is a man because of the account name:  I've seen many women on here who have overly-sexual usernames that make people think you're male.  When you have an obviously-female username, it makes you a prime target for harassment. How much you wanna bet husband has to dress up in plumber's outfit and has to put on fake mustachio tonight? It will end with some dirty girl yelling "Fuck me Mario" with him yelling "How you a lika dat you a dirty gurl?" Reading that quote in the *actual* Mario voice has fucked me up beyond any form of counseling.  Girls playing Mario Kart is always +1 I have to disagree, my Wife is better than me at Mario Kart and I'm a sore loser  Usually the case in my household. Not this time. This has happened to me before during Call of Duty. I now forever call that game The Call of Booty.

Yep. You got hit by a blue shell in Call of Duty? Wow that game is becoming hardcore. I get fragged *so hard* sometimes.  oh you dirty bitch. i bet he's coming over for kisses later Oh no, 8 years old and learning about where we all come from!

That poor child.

Seriously, I'll never understand people's hang ups about sex. I don't know why sex is so touchy. Everyone has the parts. Most people will have sex in their lifetimes. It's a common thing. &gt; most people

"Fucking chad"

  -/r9k/ I was referring to asexuals but take that how you will oh So did you explain what was actually going on? I yell too...and god damn it is it hard not to swear in front of the kids Holy shit, that is the funniest thing I've seen all week.  I totally understand the struggle though.  No one throws a God Damn Blue Shell until you're 1st and are about to finish the race. Did you try and explain this to your neighbor? What was his reaction?
 Of course not, this is a TIFU post where something that can be said to void the fuck up isn't so it can be posted on TIFU. Fucking great TIFU. Awesome OP My friends claim it's possible to dodge a blue turtle-shell. Anyone else have  experience with this? Or is it just a weird glitch? It is possible but it's a technique that requires great timing and practice and takes a skilled player to pull it off. All of need is a mushroom and use it at the right time.

Also in MK8 you can now use the Super Horn :P This was in MK for the GameCube. We played enough of it to warrant the skill. I still don't believe them though.  https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Diq-u6IdtmI Sounds like you **were** getting screwed. Just in a different way... TIL when my child asks why people make sex noises,  tell them people are just playing Mario Kart. This is the funniest thing I've seen on Reddit today.  Congratulations!  I swear like a sailor so I can totally see this happening to me. Trending: Dirty Whore This is also us during mario kart. A little girl goes to see Santa Claus at the local shopping mall. When she arrives and sits down on Santa's lap Santa asks "What do you want for Christmas little girl?".

"I want a Barbie and a GI Joe" says the little girl.

"But Barbie comes with Ken" Santa says,

"No, Barbie comes with GI Joe, she fakes it with Ken"

 Can't wait to tell this kids this one...oh, wait... You should tell them the joke so you can just play it off as like "dirty jokes are something we just do around here," instead of just being that one weirdo who told an inappropriate joke. \&gt;sitting down to dinner

\&gt;that weirdo who told that joke is here  She's already down the rabbit hole so she might as well keep going. [... Very funny.](http://reactiongifs.me/wp-content/uploads/2013/09/clapping-ken-toy-story-3.gif)  /r/retiredgif?

Edit: It's done. I scarred my 12 and 14 year old about a month ago. We were all out. My wife hugged me and put her hands in my coat pockets. I said, "Hey! Get your hands off my nuts!" To which everyone groaned and the kids were shocked. Then I pulled a small bag of peanuts out of my pocket. "What?"   I'm... I'm curious what on earth you thought the original Barbie joke meant, before you retold it to your kids? 

This is such an awkward Jen/mom moment, OP. Stereotypically so. My girlfriend is exactly like you, it's sometimes painful to witness.... But also adorably endearing   Haha! At least you didn't say "Because Ken is packaged separately" or something like that like I would've. I can't retell jokes to save my life. You can get a good look at a butcher's ass by sticking your head up there...

 Wtf any mom who can quote tommy boy is the bees knees in my book  &gt;bees knees

 No..wait...its gotta be your bull... Your 14 year old is going to tell all his friends that and be the coolest cube in the tray for a few minutes. 

Edit, spelling. I ruined the joke.  Until he says something like "coolest cube in the tray" and drops back to the bottom of the social ladder. Wow, that really frosts my cookies. Is that..... Is that a good thing? I mean, I can't really imagine a scenario where I'm like "Frosted cookies?! God damn it! This is horrible!"  A young woman that I work with says this when something annoys her quite often.  I keep telling her that there is no way that could be a bad thing...unless you're diabetic, in which case,  you probably wouldn't be having cookies anyway.   I had a boss a while back that was a sweet old southern lady and when she got angry about something she'd say "Well that really butters my biscuit" and told her once "That's a good thing right? Biscuits are better with butter, otherwise they're too dry" and she just kind of stared at be for a second and said "Damn it TriMageRyan, I've been using that phrase for 20 years and now it don't make a lick of sense to me!"  She sounds adorable. She was, and a delight to work with. When I'm out by my old job (which is less often than I'd like) I still come by to say hello to her.  &gt;I still come by to say hello to her. 

I bet that really butters her biscuit. This guy ^ I like this guy.... She sounds like Tree Trunks I wouldn't kick her out of bed for eating crackers. I worked with a really nice lady like that, she used to say "SUGER DUCKS!!!" in place of swearing. 

Also didn't make sense, but she said that 'real' curse words didn't make much more sense when you really thought about it. I think she might have been on to something.  This reminded me of my drill sergeant who was adamant on not swearing. His dedication to not swearing was fully exposed when we was marching us to the DFAC and was correcting someone in formation and walked right into a pole, completely crushing his balls. He then let out a hearty "SON OF A BISCUIT!!!!!!!!" My dad is similarly incapable of swearing. He once told my cousin about this movie called "Village of the *Darned*." Oh Cheese and Rice. I thought that said "sugar dicks" at first.  Was trying to figure out how that's not swearing. Hey. I don't care who you are, everyone loves a sugar dick.  That's the cutest thing I've heard all week and I love it! I like to say "Fudgie the Whale" sometimes. Just sometimes though. I'm not a sweet old lady.  My grandmother would say 'I swanny' (or how ever the hell you spell it)  My 90 year old grandmother is the same way. She doesn't like to use swear words so if something goes wrong she says 'sugardy shoot!'. And if things go really wrong, you get the full 'sugardy shoot and tra la la!'. What a sweet little lady. Whenever I read some story with reddit username in it I like to imagine that's the real name as well. Just change it legally to TryRageMyan  But then he'd have to make a new reddit account so people wouldn't know his real name. Well, not really, because TryRageMyan isn't actually his username. circle of life I'm from the south and there's another saying like that. They say "Well butter my buns and call me a biscuit".  I've heard that one! I moved to Texas from New York and you guys really have a lot of weird sayings. A lot of which involve butter...  Yeah we do. I'm as nervous as a long-tailed cat in a room full of rocking chairs! I..... Ummmm.... Thank you?  My favorite was always...

"Well slap my ass, and call me Shirley" I thought butter my biscuit was a sexual reference....or is that butter my muffin...I'm hungry. It's all about context hun. If I were to say "Well butter my biscuit, my car broke down again!" or "You can butter my biscuit anytime baby" I think it'd be pretty clear.  I think I'll just stick with fuck. "you can butter my fuck anytime baby"  Cookie is slang for ladyparts.

She's trying to hit on you. "That burns my waffles" is more appropriate. You, my friend, haven't bought market pantry cookies from Target then. Sounds sexy. I like your subtle spell-check by quoting the text. Next level is using the Quote feature and subtly correcting it. I do it frequently. I don't know if that makes me a monster or a saviour. When my friend's spell something incorrectly I try to repeat the word in a response.  I'm at school in Germany now, and often professors will pronounce things in a way that isn't their accent, nor British nor American English... but I haven't any good opportunities to repeat words back to them, but it's always in the back of my mind.  I think in this case it just makes me an asshole. Oh. You're THAT friend And that's the way the cookie crumbles.  That's the way the hula hoops. Seriously, I was the coolest 10 year old after my dad told me the joke:

What do you get when you cross a dinosaur with curry?

Bronty-sore-ass &gt;coolest cube in the trey

Trey needs to cut that shit with the icecubes out. 14 here, can confirm  &gt;VeradilGaming  
&gt;14 here

Confirmed. xXx_420_V3r4d1l-G4m1ng_69_xXx

(edit: 15k karma, thanks guys)  /u/VeradilGaming will be the top mlg noscoper in class. Are you saying I am not already the top mlg noscoper? U wot m8? 1v1 me in rust headshots only I'll fokin rek u m80 "fokin" - Irish detected? En vitussa ole mikn helvetin irkku Ok, ich habe mich wohl geirrt... :D Yeah, you were a bit wrong. I'm Finnish : D &gt;En vitussa ole mikn helvetin irkku

found the Japanese spy Se on kuule Suomea saatana Let's go, bitch. &gt; m80

I lol'd I am really happy that you have the sense to realise that is a joke. You will go far kid. I don't know how to reply to this without ending up in /r/lewronggeneration , but thanks anyways Go to bed you twat 

-16 year old  It's 12:22 p.m. here in Finland. No.  ... 

Oh.

Do it anyway cause I told you to.  Finlanders have the most balls! We have balls the size of Lappi. 

If you don't know what size Lappi is, it's about the size of a finn's balls.  You're negative 16 years old? If somebody travels backwards in time to a date before their birth, I guess they'd have negative age. So Ken has a cum box too... Somebody will ask what this means, and someone will link to it again. What does this mean? Here we go! https://www.reddit.com/r/AskReddit/comments/t0ynr/throwaway_time_whats_your_secret_that_could/c4imcva Check that guys profile, he's gotten even more fucked up now than he was then. Nothing but pics of dead kids posts.

EDIT: Probably should have thought to mention, NSFL, even more so than the infamous cumbox itself. Well he did say he is a very disturbed individual. He is a disturbed individual. Too weird to live, too rare to die -- Miss Jackson TIL /r/PicsofDeadKids is a thing that exists.  If someone could point me to some brain bleach stronger than /r/aww, I'd be much obliged.   /r/eyebleach Well, he is a moderator of /r/picsofdeadkids

Plus, he has a nice sprinkling of /r/askhistorians questions. Have to balance it out there a little.  Who could have guessed that Thankyou!!

Be proud. That is so fucking disgusting, especially the photo, I threw up a little in my mouth. Just to get the vomit out of your mouth...  
Do you think if he cooked that box on the grill, once the cardboard burned away, would it cook like a steak, or just burn up and fall apart.  
Someone needs to cook the cumbox, for science! Dude! That's fucking feral!!

And now I want to know.... Why!?!? No! Don't go there! Hey now. One man's trauma is another man's fap material.  It's so sad that out there, somewhere, someone has a fetish for the cumbox... Pleasure to meat you. I've been sitting here for the last few minutes trying to decide if "meat" was meant as a pun or just a mispelling. I need sleep I, I, I, I don't know either.

I think I'm now broken. M'cumbox. Not this again.... I just didn't want to believe that was real...

That and the cum t shirt. Shirt?

I've only heard about -box, -boxers, -sock and -wall.

I wonder if some of the more degenerate cavemen had a cum rock or a cum pelt that they used. Well I'm going to regret this but I just cant help myself.... 


cum wall?  Permalinked comment with links:

http://www.reddit.com/r/OutOfTheLoop/comments/1uwndz/what_is_this_cum_wall_thing/cemj9wv

It get's weird, I wouldn't click it if I were you. Trust me, you don't want to see the shirt. IIRC it was on 4chan and was so rigid it was capable of standing up on its own. and cum boxers...and cum sock...  
  
What the fuck am i doing with my life, when i normally speak about some dude who jacked off into a box/sock/boxers/etc for years? You sound like the mom from Modern Family. HE CAME IN ANOTHER BOX, CORAL  Loved it.

I'll just leave this here for those out of the loop.

http://www.reddit.com/r/heycarl And now you know why dad jokes exist. People are making apocalypse jokes like there's no tomorrow. I tried eating a clock once, it was time consuming. My mind is still slow from waking up: 

*huh? What does the apocalypse have to do with barbie? Oh, it's about my dad-joke comment ^giggle look at username* LOL 

Thanks for that! [I BET I KNOW WHERE OP SAW THE JOKE!](http://i.imgur.com/ndvd5WL.jpg)

he's a subscriber to /r/HeyCarl  I'm mid 2nd season (first time) and I'm really curious now about what's going to happen in this particular scene... but carl looks so fuckin' stupid wit dat hat! It's probably the most sad / gut wrenching (not literally) scene of the show for me . I imagine being exposed to this meme first does something warped to the emotions when you actually see the scene.... Please report back, I'm curious now to the feels.  I saw the meme a lot before watching. For me, the scene actually rushed through a bit more than I had imagined. I dunno, I thought Rick would have this face for longer or something. Altogether, though, no real effect on how I perceived it; still completely gut wrenching. But not literally.  Was vindicating for me. Fuck 'em. Honestly I love Andrew Lincoln but his cry there was so terrible that it completely broke the scene for me. I went from depressed to giggling in .2 seconds. I lost it when he says "OH NOOOOOOOOO" all dramatically lol  *she When I was 11 or 12 and keeping in touch by email was "cool," I emailed this joke to all my friends (and my mom):

It went like:
&gt; A pregnant woman is about to give birth. The doctor has her on the
delivery table, legs up in the stirrups. Suddenly, he sees the top
of a head push through. Then the baby pops its head out and says
to the doctor, "Are you my dad?". 

&gt;The doctor says, "No, I am your doctor!". With that, the baby pops
right back inside. 

&gt;"Damn!", says the doctor. A short while later he sees the head push
through again. 

&gt;"Are you my dad?" asks the baby. 

&gt;"No, I am your doctor," he replies. 

&gt;Once again the baby vanishes back into his mother's womb. 

&gt;The doctor turns to a nurse and says, "Nurse, get that baby's father
in here right away--we may have a situation on our hands!" Moments
later the baby's father is in the delivery room, and the baby's head
once again pops out. "Are you my dad?" the baby asks of the father. 

&gt;The father replies, "Yes, little baby, I am your father!" 

&gt;The baby then reaches up and begins poking his father in the forehead
with his index finger--"How do you like that?" 

I had interpreted it as literal finger-poking, and assumed the baby was so pissed at the father in particular because the father spends most time with the mother (and so would poke the baby most.) But no.... Nope.... My mom furiously pulled me aside, explained the joke, and then made me send an apology email to everybody I sent it to. Priceless. Thanks for the laugh. 
 The ten year old will likely repeat that at school for the same reason you repeated it to them. You've started a devastating chain of events here. Quality.  OP: Because Ken came in [(my brain: oh shit, I get it now, punch out, punch out, PUNCH OUT!)](https://img.4plebs.org/boards/pol/image/1399/61/1399617034429.gif)... a different... (mumble) box...  What did you think the joke was originally? I don't get how you thought it would be funny. I'm assuming she took the joke to mean that since Barbie and Ken were not packaged in the same box, they could not have doll sex and make doll babies while waiting on the shelf for someone to buy them. She had probably watched too much Toy Story or something She took it literally, which is funny but not that funny...like, Dad funny. She probably thought it was a bit of an anti-joke, like  
Why did the Dinosaur not make pancakes for breakfast? - because he's extinct. I don't think a live dinosaur could make pancakes for breakfast either. If dinosaurs were alive the whole market would have evolved differently and I'm sure there would be specialized manufacturers for dinosaur friendly household appliances. It's their fault for not being mature enough to handle it. Quality joke in my opinion.  She did ask before hand Ken didnt Damn dolls perpetuating rape culture  [deleted] Don't know why you're getting downvoted. What 14 and 10 year old wants to hear their mom talk about cum? Hell I'm 25 and don't want to hear that.  I'm 38 and I might actually kill myself if my mother talked about cum in front of me Is that what kids are calling it now days? We never did this to our kids when they were younger to appear to be the cool parents.  We did it purely for the shock and embarrassment value.  Youngest one is 19 and we can still pull it off. They've actually just released a new Barbie doll. 
"Divorced Barbie".
Comes with
- Ken's car
- Ken's house
- Ken's pay
- Ken's.... Really what are the odds any of them were Ken's? He had relatively few careers over the years and Barbie's done everything under the sun. Didn't think the house was pink because he got a say in it. She goes through 100 jobs a year and you take it as a sign of success?  That's not a too impressive number for a porn star  Sounds like they get stretched to their limit.  Goddamn, it's like I walked into a Time Machine Comedy Club with the dial turned to somewhere in the 90s

And what's the deal with airplane peanuts? How's about them lines at the DMV huh White people walk like *this* and black people walk like *this.* AHAHAHA! THEY TOTALLY DO! AHAHAHAHA! -Ken's balls. Ken never had balls.  Barbie knew that when she married him. Ken should have thought of that before Barbie gave up years of her life to support him and his career just so he could come in a different box. Punch out? more like PULL OUT... amirite? Hur hur my 15yo will love it Sometimes saying it aloud is all you need to fully understand a joke I don't get it Looks like we've found the 10yr old. "When a boy and a girl like each other...." very much they fuck sometimes anally but always with the lights on... In a box. I get the intentions of the joke, but I don't get the joke itself. Why did Barbie never have kids --- because ken came in. If he came inside of her, wouldn't she be pregnant? I'm kind of confused on this part of the joke... He didn't get barbie pregnant because he "came" in another "box"

Box in some places is slang for the female genitalia. Ahh okay thanks! Wasn't aware that box referred to female genitalia  Oh. I thought it was a reference to the cumbox. I thought he came in his own box. 

But I guess that makes no sense at all! So what was the other interpretation that was still slightly inappropriate?  They come in separate boxes, so they couldn't be together to have sex. Ken comes separately with most Barbie sets. So the joke is that ken ejaculated into another vagina other than barbie's I thought it was about anal. box is a slang term for vagina Since it was from reddit, I thought it was related to the cum-box. STOP MENTIONING THE FUCKING CUM-BOX ALREADY. ITS BEEN 4 FUCKING TIMES AND I'VE ONLY GOTTEN THROUGH 2 DOZEN COMMENTS Why are you so angry about cum-box? Does the term cum-box bother you? Maybe you feel a bit guilty after a few years of cum-box you had yourself? Cum-box New for 2015: Cumbox Ken. Ken and Cumbox sold separately. See Lynfect for details. The cum box will always find you.  came = ejaculated

box = euphemism for vagina Neither did Ken I think Ken was in a different closet.. The only part you messed up was when you finally got the joke and bailed. You should have owned it, and just belted out the punchline. Seriously, you're 14 year old has heard, and will hear, much worse, and it sounds like it went right over your 10 year old's head anyway. When I was old enough my father finally started telling inappropriate jokes to end the shit joke era. And then I understood, that even if his jokes has cocks in it, they're still not funny. My father simply isn't a funny man. I think OP came here expecting reddit to be more mature than her boys. No dice. Wait....*moms* tell dad jokes?!?!?!?

http://www.reactiongifs.com/r/lkrwtf.gif Why don't Mr &amp; Mrs Claus have kids?

Because he only comes once a year and that's usually down the chimney. Hey you're still cool. It's not your fault they're confused. Pshhhhhh. Kids.  Mom,  .......wtf...... So Ken is the redditer then.  He's the one who had that cum box.  My mother would have told that joke, fully understanding it, to either of her kids at any age and then laugh her ass off. Because she's vulgar.  why did Barbie get kicked out of the toy box? 'cause she sat on pinnochio's face and said "lie to me, lie to me!" How did you go from being the "cool mom" to benign dad?  Sounds like you're confused by more than the joke. Way to go, Amy Poehler.
 Entirely appropriate for their ages.

By the time most parents think it's appropriate to talk about their kids with Sex, they're already doing it.

Good Luck! -Cum  
-Box  
-Filthy Sanchez  
-Anal creampie

Terms moms should probably not be discussing in front of their ten-year-olds...

*Edited to add that I do think you are correct in not delaying the talk, but you should probably wait to drop the higher-level Urban Dictionary vocab lessons until later in the process. At ten...your kids have already heard the higher-level urban dictionary vocab.

At 14, they're writing them.

And Cum is an appropriate term. Box is a safe term for referring to it.  The last two, no reason to put them together just yet, but the kids will be doing it by 14.  Average age of lost virginity is 15.  Average age of redditor lost virginity is 35, so SOMEBODY is making up for that difference! &gt;  Average age of lost virginity is 15

Slow down there. Isnt that about 3 years off (In each direction depending on what country you're talking about) Luckily enough, You're right...but it's not that much better...

http://liveeternity.blogspot.kr/2007/12/loss-of-virginity-world-map.html

Oh but wait, that's 2005 data...and notice how the trend was going for people in the younger age groups... If you wish to talk about masturbation and the kid is a boy, you are going to have to talk about semen and maybe even proper ways of disposing of it (not socks or boxes for starters). You should probably also introduce the common terms so he knows what others are talking about and how he should talk about it if he needs to. He needs to know what cum means, but also that it is an inappropriate term in many contexts.

If you talk about how reproduction works in humans then at some point you should probably mention the differences in anatomy and make sure they know that (reproductive sex at least) does not happen anally. No you do not sit down and say "time to talk about the pleasures of anal creampies", but you go over the topic in an appropriate manner so he knows that anal sex does not lead to pregnancy, it can lead to STDs, you need condoms when doing anal, many people do not enjoy and it can be painful, but some do enjoy it and find it pleasurable, and it is not an exclusively homosexual activity. Otherwise he might grow up not knowing heterosexual people practice anal sex, or expecting his gf to just be ok with it, or not using a condom or proper preparation.

A box by itself is not dirty in any way. If your kid has some very troubling kind of box, then it might be advisable to bring it up rather than to let him think it is normal. If he overheard someone mention a box in a way to refer to a girl's vagina and he comes to you for clarification, then it should be clarified.

You don't have to be weird about it, but neither is there a reason to shut it down. 10 years old is a reasonable time to start discussing what masturbation is, the basic things not to do, and what sex means biologically and in our culture. If you only bring it up when he has been masturbating for 5 years and may even be sexually active, then you are not helping, you are just creating an awkward situation. &gt; talk about semen and maybe even proper ways of disposing of it (not socks 

Have I been doing it wrong for 10 years? &gt; then you are not helping, you are just creating an awkward situation.

Exactly, that conversation wouldn't be appropriate for a 14 years old at all, they already know this stuff (but perhaps it would be nice to talk about boundaries / consent, condoms, etc) I don't think that's appropriate for her ten year old. She said herself that the 10 year old had no idea what she was talking about. And so her ten year old will learn about these subjects in the same way the rest of us found out: some kid at school will tell her.

By the time her parents are ready to talk to her about it [when they think she's "appropriate" to hear about it, she'll already be doing it...if not pregnant herself.

What's not appropriate is how we talk about it shun it, and then pretend it doesn't exist and if we don't talk about it, they'll never find out.  And they'll find out "when we're ready."

Ready or not, here they cum... I wasn't saying don't talk to your kids about sex, just that this particular joke was clearly not on her particular ten year old kid's level. I'm sure there are some 10 year olds out there who already know about sex and would have gotten the joke, but hers didn't. Then her ten year old can take it by the same literal meaning that she thought it meant... LPT: say jokes out loud before repeating to others. It'll help you catch things you didn't the first time when you read it. I read this one a few weeks ago. Immediately shared with teenaged friends. Was not disappointed with the reaction.

"Oh...Ohh...OHHHHHH LOLOLOL" They said "LOLOLOL" out loud?  You don't? I guess I've been doing it wrong... /r/dadjokes meets /r/tifu  This is like my mom.. My dad is hilarious and always had me and my friends cracking up when we were younger, and still does to this day actually. But anytime my mom tries to make a joke it doesn't come out right and it makes me cringe. She basically becomes Meg anytime she tells a joke. I think it is a good decision to stick with the dad puns OP. I didn't get this until now, thank you. I play trivia, and in the summer tournament there was a team called "Hermaphrodite Barbie: She Comes in Her Own Box." Well on the bright side this may be more disturbing for your kids http://imgur.com/on2mfYz As a little kid I saw a bumper sticker that said "Save a tree, eat a beaver". I thought it was hysterical and said it over and over. It was years before I knew what it really meant. hahaha i love this story. mums are great. Why would you tell a joke you don't get? She said she did, but only literally. So, she actually Fucked up by wanting to tell a lame joke, that turned out to be a funny one. I don't understand how she would think the literal interpretation is funny. If they were in different boxes they couldn't have sex. Hm. I don't really find that funny. They also don't have genitals.  So in her mind it was kind of like an anti-joke? Why would you comment on a post you don't get? http://i.imgur.com/DrZuKRr.png i heard this joke from my dad dont worry OP It could've been worse. The 10 year old could've said, "Because neither of them have the equipment." if i were you, the look on the 14 might have scared the hell out of me like... she/he knows what it means??????????/ Kids know about this way earlier than 14 normally. Because, the internet.  That was true before the internet.  Pretty sure I heard that joke when I was ten and the internet was barely a glimmer in Al Gore's eyes. At 14, she should just be lucky she doesn't already have a 1 year old.  Seriously?  While I hadn't had sex at 14, I certainly could tell you about it, including how it works, variations in positions, how common it is, how reliable different forms of contraception is, and a number of different kinks (though I believed those were less common than they are.)

And this was before the Internet, and not from having seen porn. Or maybe you just heard right.

You bastard redditor.

EDIT: Awww, my first gold! Thank you! You're now in my non-bastard redditors list! Back to 9gag where she can be treated like a m'lady This fucking guy M'fucking guy lol heartily [M'lady NSFW](http://i.imgur.com/Bx8po1R.jpg) I'm fucking done with this place.

Edit: Thanks for the gold! Uh. That's nice. Yeah.. I literally would not be able to explain this to anyone if they looked over my shoulder while watching that. Yea well good thing it explains itself M'penis No its not Equal parts horrifying and mesmerizing. [MFW](http://i.imgur.com/qGeHqFV.gifv) I knew exactly what it was before I clicked it. Now I feel slightly dirty and ashamed.  You're fucking lost, man. Go back to 4chan. yuck, made me 9gag  Those are the worst... I bet you reddited saying that...

*Edit: Thanks for the gold kind stranger!* No raddits How many Raditz are you? A whole Kakarot VEGETA! Look! A pokemon Aww it used selfdestruct. I hate it when they do that.  "Hold on, you went to college?"

"Yep"

"WHAT THE HELL COULD SOMEONE LIKE YOU POSSIBLY MAJOR IN?" "Child psychology..."

"Oh *that* seems rather interesting! I wonder if"

"*WITH A MINOR IN PAIN!*" Patty cake, patty cake, baker's **MAN**

Bake me a cake as fast as you **CAN** Since it's your cake day, someone should probably bake you a cake. http://i.imgur.com/yoSgh.jpg Train Rekt. Its a choutsu!!! I'm going to catch it! Awww, it didn't work. You've got to damage it first nappa! Oh, I hope I get a critical! Rock slam! KAKA-CRABBYPATTY! Hanging out with little boys in Spandex again I see... Yahs I am the pattycake champion There's no escaping, banana! I loved you Vagina, but you can't be doin' that, come on. I AN A SUPER SAND LESBIAN! Prapaar ta daaaa.  Not even one letter? http://m.imgur.com/I8TDLRq It was quite redditable. I bet your life is filled with reddit.
 He just did. "I immediately reddit this decision!"

http://img.pandawhale.com/12395-I-immediately-regret-this-deci-nrZx.png Reddits, I've had a few... don't be so retired never ask someone if they like reddit. assume they have no idea.  Anytime someone asks if I know what it is I say "no, can you show me?" Then I take note of their username and read all their secret online thoughts.  Brilliant. Evil mastermind here! Diabolical. I love it. &gt;Anytime

This comes up a lot? Someone asked me what Reddit was once and I realized I have no idea how to describe it to someone who doesn't know what it is. 

"It's... uh, well I guess it's the internet." Any time I tell someone about a funny or interesting thing on here, I just say "I read it on the internet" Basically this! My GF assumes I'm on hundreds of sites, I'd rather not explain and let her believe it.  That's right, just pretend you're an expert at navigating the internet...mwahahajahaha My husband directed me to reddit.  Now, far too many of our convos begin with: "So, did you see that....on the front page--" 

"Yes." 

"Well, what did you think?"

"With rice, or without?" &gt;My GF assumes I'm on hundreds of sites

Unless you're reading exclusively self posts, that's technically true.  reddit is forever "this friend," when I share things from it &gt; When my friends told me if reddit, they just said it was this awesome "thing" on the internet.

I called it "a site with links" ... which is virtually everything on the internet. "Web content aggregate."  "Internet postings amalgamate."
 so reddits kinda like fight club, pretend to know nothing about this in the real world? yep. till you are sure they will like it. then show them not tell them  Unfortunately, no one can be told what the Reddit is. You have to see it for yourself.

*Edit: Thanks for the gold, kind stranger!* When my friends told me if reddit, they just said it was this awesome "thing" on the internet. If I ever have to explain what Reddit is, I just say it's an enormous online forum that lets users create their own sub-forums for specific interests. Most people understand what a forum is, so it makes me sound a little less crazy.  That is the most accurate description one can give.  Save for a photo of a neckbeard. I've described it as kind of like a reader-driven magazine, where you subscribe to things you want to see, and vote on whether or not you like it.  I was hanging out with a buddy I hadnt seen in years and he goes, "you would like Reddit...check it out." 
After Lurking for about two months I payed for the Alien Blue upgrade and haven't achieved anything since.
I showed some of my other friends and they thought was stupid. One said "so, its basically a fb for losers?" Wtf? My other buddy and I were talking about reddit once and he goes "I tried it out, man, it doesn't really appeal to me though. Like, I can't figure out how to play it...how do I get points? Do people win?"
My wife thinks it "pintrest for guys".
I donnt talk about it anymore. That's pretty rough. "[Reddit] is everywhere, it is all around us, even now in this very room. You can see it when you look out your window, or you turn on your television. You can feel it when you go to work, when you go to church, when you pay your taxes." Can confirm, I never heard about Reddit until a few months ago, now I'm on it everyday. Can confirm. A close friend of mine is convinced I browse a site that basically only makes posts which include either naked or dead people [Naked OR dead people?](http://i.imgur.com/c7NJRa2.gif) Well that was my risky click of the day.  Yup.. Tried to explain it to my girlfriend once.. Mistake, she just looked weirdly at me and started to chance the subject.  not really, that would be something like 4chan etc, reddit is an extremely casual and popular site That was my first thought as well, do self professed redditors (read: autists) really consider themselves to be in some sort of secret club? yea most people have never heard of our super secret ~30th most popular website on the entire web (9th in the US). 

It was old pretending like reddit was some secret club 5 years ago, but now it's nearly equivalent to pretending google is some hot secret for search you've stumbled upon. I know that what you're saying is true...but I know maybe one other person who uses reddit. A few know what it is, but no one I know actually knows how it works or uses it. I don't understand! There's so many of us, yet so few...... I've come to realize that I really don't have to ask the majority of the people I know if they're redditors.  I can tell.  Something shows up on the front page, and boom, it's on their FB a day later.  Or some little reddit inside joke will stand out in their commentary.  I ignore it.  Nothing good could come of people seeing my reddit history.   When you consider that the best possible outcome of the conversation is "Oh hey cool, yes I do, what's your username?" then an awkward silence as they both realize the impact of knowing post history..... I never talk about reddit.   Ugh. I've asked some friends if they had/knew it and i should be glad they didn't.Basically, its either you have to be all alone with yourself (in IRL friend's terms) or be really freakin careful not to post embarassing stuff... which is really counter productive. Or not give a shit because your friends know what you're like anyway?  Right? I mentioned it to a friend and he was like "What's your handle" and I was like "nope. not gonna happen" talking about reddit is like talking about the weather.

"oh, you catch that funny ama the other day with that guy delivering pizza in a pirate outfit?" Who says handle?  People that publicly talk about reddit  People who use radios. 10-4, gay buddy Who asks if you regret it? Especially immediately after. Weird. Do you regret the baby we just conceived? 

Establish dominance  Insecure people. Or people who regret it and are projecting.  Insecure and socially inept people** Exactly. OP dodged a bullet. I would understand asking the morning after if you were both drunk. But immediately after? She was probably super insecure and OP dodged a bullet, because clearly she was "testing" him since she already knew what answer she wanted to hear.  Females in imagined scenarios. People in made up stories, that's who. You should have screamed out your window, *"I'm going to downvote you to oblivion!"* why would she ask that? It's like some insecure guy being all weird and asking if he had a small dick afterwards or something. it's common dating no-no #1. She fucked up more than you i'd say.  Because insecurities. Insecurities that OP definitely helped with.  Irreversible damage there, move on! She won't though. Prepare for blowback OP. No way. But with confidence like that I guarantee she would have done anal. That's where OP fucked up. Young women often require somewhere between one and eleventy reassurances. Especially at potentially vulnerable times.  [deleted] This made me very sad. You should talk to her about it.  As a wife this makes me sad, you should talk about it with her. 

Sex is supposed to be fun! Experiment! Talk about your fantasies! (I sound like some kind of sex cheerleader lol)

But really talk about it, so much about sex is just about having an open communication with the other person. Tell her what you like, maybe she'll open up too. I think maybe she was asking you that as a way of trying to open that door for things to improve. &gt; (I sound like some kind of sex cheerleader lol)

Debbie? &gt;always asks me after sex "if it was good?"

&gt;my answer is always, "I came didn't I?

&gt;It's funny cause it's usually not very good at all

I wonder why?
 &gt; she mostly just lays there and does nothing

 She's probably not enjoying it that much either, which is leading to her doubt. I think when you've been in a relationship for awhile it's pretty common for the bedroom to cool down and become somewhat boring and routine. I know I've experienced it in the past. Maybe try to ramp it up with porn or toys if it bothers you. definitely DONT hint that you might enjoy it more if she had a pornstar physique as that probably won't work out well.  [deleted] Ever try asking her to be on top? Kidding. 

I have an idea here. Can I assume she is christian?

If she wanted to wait until marriage, then she may think that good girls should not enjoy sex. The problem with porn is that it is sleazy. Sorry, but to a woman who is trying to be a good christian, porn is all that she does not want to be. Porn would actually shut her down. 

I went through about ten years of trying to be christian. It caused a lot of long term problems in my marriage because I equated being good with not being very sexual. Good mothers and good christians were not sex beasts. (I know now it is irrelevant)

I am an atheist and once i finally accepted that it helped me a lot. But if she is a true believer, that is not an option. 

Another issue is she could be feeling like she doesn't trust being close to you emotionally and this is one way to do it. While I know you were venting, it was hard for me to read what you wrote without feeling like you were seriously judging her. You keep saying 'loved' in the past tense. 

If you can get her to go to therapy, perhaps she can explore why she does not like sex. It could be painful, it could be she has regrets, it could be she is protecting herself from you emotionally by not being close physically

You probably should get some therapy too. This all does not happen in a vaccum. Not only are you obviously having deep issues with handling this, but you likely are contributing to the problem as well. 

Once you both have some self understanding then couples therapy would be good. 



 She's asking if it was good cause she thinks it sucks too - just in case you haven't figured that out yet. Depressing.

This is exactly why waiting till marriage is stupid.  Not only is it a totally arbitrary line to draw, and not only does the mere fact of being married not change sex, but sex and physical intimacy is a HUGE part of relationships and I'm definitely not trying to get married before finding out whether or not I'm even remotely sexually compatible with that person.  It just seems like an immature way to look at sexuality.

Talk to her about why she is clearly uncomfortable with her sexuality.  If it doesn't change and you don't have kids just move on.  It's rough but not worth a lifetime of obvious sexual frustration.

That said its also possible you're a shitty lover. How about you get more "fancy"? Whatever that means for you in particular, you can try [MojoUpgrade](http://mojoupgrade.com/).

In a marriage, I think there should be enough trust to talk about these things and make something so essential fun for everyone again. Sounds like she has really low confidence and maybe doesn't feel sexy?? I'd definitely try and talk about how her lack of participation makes you feel. Or even consider seeing a counselor.  I feel like I wrote thst myself. Except replace 7 years with 3. My girlfriend is the same. She asks me to rate it from 1-10 ...and of course i never go for anything less than 8.5. That would be just silly OP had a boring conversation with a friend where he mistook the term 'regret it' for 'reddit'. He thought it'd make a good post on reddit after spicing it up a bit. I would bet money that its something along those lines. This was not a real story, fellow. Because it didn't happen haha. Because it never happened  That was my thought.  What a weird question. Maybe she really does love reddit and she'll see this post and realize what happened after which she'll run back to you and you'll both laugh about the whole thing and wind up falling in love and getting married.

Then you'll really regret it. can't you just text her now and explain? pretty sure basically every girl would be happy to know that the guy who said they regretted hooking up didn't mean it This sounds like a one night stand situation.  Would he even have her phone number?  Would he even care to correct his mistake?  It could be a win/win/win: had sex, had his bed to himself, didn't have to make breakfast or awkward small talk and pretend like they'd ever see each other again.

And honestly if you have sex with someone and they specifically ask "do you regret it?" it sounds like something is off with her...  What kind of well-adjusted person asks that?  Some kind of insecurity or she regrets the decision. This. 

It'd make a great story to friends as to how y'all met. Or maybe this is a blessing in disguise.  The perfect way out of feeling guilty for not calling/texting if he doesn't want to see her again. "We hooked up for a while and when it was eventually over..." sounds to me awfully like regret.  That's a very odd thing for her to ask... This story is obv fake. No redditor can pick up women for one night stands at a bar!

Edit: just n case it wasn't clear /sarcasm :-) This story is obviously actually fake, though. OP wouldn't have followed up with "What, you don't like the site? I just go on it for cat pics," or some thing while she was getting angrily dressed, that would have cleared up the miscommunication?

The "I misheard and said the wrong thing and they got angry and got their things together and stormed out" trope is pretty much always problematic for this reason - the person who said the wrong thing just sat there and watched them angrily get dressed and get their stuff together without any follow-up comments?

There's a reason all of reddit considers this sub to be /r/thathappened version 2.0 Ehh I don't know, I agree with you about the subreddit and that it is possibly fake, but it's entirely possible for a girl to suddenly get so angry she just shuts out anything you say for a while and literally doesn't listen to what you're saying at all until she's calmed down. (Could be possible for guys too, I wouldn't know).

Again it could indeed be fake but *if* it did happen it wouldn't have been as easy as the next thing he said would have just calmed her down just like that. This is a textbook fake TIFU post. Redditor thinks of a word that can be misheard/misinterpreted, comes up with a mildly plausible scenario where that mishearing/misinterpretation would result in a fuck up, and collects the karma from other idiot redditors who don't know any better. Double karma if you can work in sex.  Yeah you're probably right. It happens to me every two weeks. When she's mad I could repeat something a hundred times and she won't hear it. I have become fearful of women and their unstoppable anger. When she leaves me I will try to become gay or just smoke weed every day. http://i.imgur.com/c7NJRa2.gif I'm going to have to disagree with you. Think about it this way, OP is drunk, tired, and just had sex so also worn out. She asks a question and he answers, then she randomly starts getting pissed and gathering all her shit up. "What? What's wrong? What happened?" Are probably all he can muster at this point cause he doesn't understand.

So once he's finished with those basic questions and maybe has an idea of what's going on, she's already almost ready to leave. Then he starts making excuses, "Oh, that's not what I meant."

Meanwhile she's just thinking, "Oh yeah, you enthusiastically tell me you regret fucking me then all of the sudden you're spouting excuses at me that I'm supposed to buy. Asshole."

Your argument might be, "Well, she would hear his excuse and she'd realize it makes sense." Here's where you'd be wrong. First of all, yes, he is drunk. But so is she. She's not processing information clearly, and she just had something HUGE said to her. On top of that, she's insecure, or she wouldn't have asked the question. Because she's insecure, she's not going to question it, anything negative is absolutely the truth. Plus she's also worn out if OP is any good, plus, again, she's drunk.

Source: You haven't had enough one night stands. I'm sorry but this story makes no sense and is probably fake.

Why would a girl INSTANTLY storm out after hearing a guy enthusiastically say he regrets it? The sheer response of saying you regret it enthusiastically implies that you did not understand the question. People don't excitedly regret things. There is no way in hell there would be no clarifying question of any type afterwards. agree. sitcom-level lack of simple clarifying conversation. this story is as fake as all the other fake stories around here. Because his life is a sitcom where a girl can get dressed and storm out faster than you can say a sentence?  *sigh*

This is why you must loudly proclaim **"THE NARWHAL BACONS AT MIDNIGHT!"** when in doubt. This is the only way to be sure. I read this comment aloud and mother came in and punched me in the throat. Totally deserved. And do you? No! thats the thing I liked her Did you explain this to her at all, How could be possibly explain the mix up to her without telling her about his reddit addiction?  &gt;before I could put two and two together No, because just like on a sitcom, he was so shocked at the situation, he couldn't get a word out while she was putting on her clothes and storming out the door. Panties go on WAY faster than they go off. Did u get her number? You could clear it up with a text... Yeah this is like a bad movie where people slam doors and don't explain shit then mess up real bad.  When she was guzzling that beer and being fingerblasted by the 15 different guys in the bathroom, it was ME that she chose to go home with. 


There was a special connection &lt;3 When will people learn: the number one rule of redditing is that you never admit that you're a redditor. Take me for example. If a girl stalks out my reddit history she'd think I'm a no-life retardo-creep-nuts who spend his time on reddit 24/7 and would have no time for sex. That doesn't seem like you at all. Nah, you're just horribly disfigured and sometimes talk to people who aren't really there. And that's just looking at the posting times! That's nice honey. What did Janet and Chrissy say when you got home? I would have yelled "ENUNCIATE WOMAN"! This is not a TIFU... it couldn't have gone more smoothly Idk this story seems  kind of bs. If OP said he hooked up with someone he's known for awhile I could understand her asking that question. But a random from the bar who rolls over and says, "do you regret it" to their half asleep partner. Maybe my bullshit meter is super high for this sub because a good number of these posts consists of "TIFU by having sex with this super hot triplets and now their super hot mother wants to have sex with me". I'll take "Things that never happened" for $200 Alec. "Reddit and regret it kinda sounds similar. I should make up a stupid story about it!" so you didnt say a word? you just watched her get dressed? you're full of shit like all the other posts here. Are you sure she didn't scream "Keep calm and chive on!" as she stormed out? out of all the things that never happened, this never happened the most OP is a virgin lying for attention Come back m'lady  I'm not a rocket surgeon, but if that's her pillow talk, it sounds like she's got some self-esteem issues... Where can I get one.  She sounds like a karma whore. Still had sex! Well sure now you regret it Reddit where reddit is due i want to believe, OP, but that's like a solid 2-3 minutes of getting dressed in silence before leaving... and in all those minutes you didn't figure out something was wrong?  until teleportation devices exist, i won't be able to believe anyone that says someone left before they had a chance to say something Who the fuck asks if you regret hooking up within 24 hours?  Je ne reddit rien! What a fucking question to ask Doesn't matter, had sex. If she does reddit getting this on the front page could get you off the hook. Should have reddacted. No ragrets OP, next time try with *"Yes, what's your favorite sub?"* and maybe you will get gold for that.

 If her first thought after sleeping with you was "Is this a bad idea?" then you might have dodged a bullet In your defence, who the fuck asks something like that? why would anyone ask either one of those questions If she doesn't Reddit, you should regret it!  Nah, dude.  You didn't fuck up.  You won twice. It's not your fault, she had auto correct on.  And here you are, crawling back to your ONE true love. A bunch of guys on Reddit. That woman's name? ...Albert Einstein.  That sounds awfully familiar /r/thatHappened  Or maybe she actually did say "do you reddit" any she just hates redditors  WARNING Redditing can cause acute cases of COCK BLOCK. Use as directed. Contact your neckbeard if any new symptoms develop. No Ragrets Or she's a die-hard Nicktoons fan and was upset when the OP said "No Rugrats." This went in a slightly different direction than I thought. I thought you were gonna say "yea you like that you fuckin retard" as a joke, but then she wouldn't get the reference, turns out she's actually slightly autistic and then stabs you Maybe you heard right and she's just really into 9gag or something. I think this was the best possible outcome. She left, she didn't borrow any of your clothes and you got the bed to yourself.  To be fair it was way easier than having to figure out how to get rid of her in the morning. I have to ask. Who the hell has sex with someone, and then just immediately asks them if they regret it.

Like, you're just 2 random people hooking up, it's not like you're cousins or some shit. awww fuck. maaan. that sucks.... 
 Maybe she was a 9gagger or Buzzfeeder, in which case, you're better off. Well, you saved yourself the awkward "Oh, you're still here" in the morning after the booze wears off and you see that what you thought was a 10/10 was actually a man in drag. If only it was a man in drag. sum wimmin haz penises shitlerd Sjw's appearing in 5,4,3.... Fuck 'em...

But let me get drunk first. Cheers!  It was a man in a bag.  Why, uh, why would you admit you browse Reddit in real life? To a real female? 

This is why I have no hope for people, that shit was virgin worthy. Er, is reddit really *that* bad? I'm a female and I use it, so does my boyfriend... it's become really mainstream. The only girls I know of who think it is crap are the ones who are ultra-feminist and think they'll get literally eye-raped by redpillers if they type in the url.  What's on the internet, stays on the internet. It should stay that way. 

Same goes for 4chan/9gag etc, when you're dating anyone bringing your online persona in to the real world is a recipe for disaster, unless you've been together for a while and share your interests. 

It was autism at it's finest that he got excited she might be into Reddit, it's like getting excited because someone uses Facebook. [deleted] Exactly, not the most smooth of moves. I regret reading this post! You obviously should have known she was not a Redditor. If she were, she wouldn't have asked "do you Reddit?" She'd have asked "does the narwhal bacon at midnight?"

Noob.  Sounds like you accidentally dodged a bullet.  She would have been a nightmare. &gt;The correct character for man is .

I really wonder how you *said* that. "The correct character for man is boxhead guy sprinting" Christmas present on steel rail sled. Windows logo on water skis. Square Tetris block on Pi it's a dotted 64th note written by a drummer.  Robbie the Robot on horseback. Four leaf clover holding a cane. In Chinese (of which Kanji is derived), the top character  represents a field.  The bottom character  represents power.  Together, they represent man's job of working the field.  Hence,  = man.  Easy way to remember it.

Not that you asked, I just find it interesting. How do they derive woman? Please tell me it's as dirty and sexist as I'm thinking it's going to be.  it is supposed to be the picture of a woman kneeling, if you see the more ancient versions leading up to the modern character you can see the progressionhttp://www.chineseetymology.org/CharacterEtymology.aspx?characterInput=%E5%A5%B3

There are tons of sexist characters though. slave is  which is woman on the left and hand on the right. evil or traitor is  which is woman on the left and do on the right. The most commonly used one is  which means good and is woman on the left and child on the right meaning if a man has a woman and a child everything is good for him.

By far the worse one is  which is 3 woman characters and means debauchery/adultery/rape basically a catch all for any bad kind of sexual act. This is an old character that is not really used today and the government in china has actually forbidden state run publications from using this character because of complaints from women's rights groups Well,  me. That was interesting. It pretty much looks like XXX. Couple that with the fact that the XX chromosome pair is female, and oh shit... did I just look too far into the matrix?  Well if we're talking chromosomes, a XXX wouldn't be three women. It might at most be 1.5 women or a chimera, or a [superfemale](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Triple_X_syndrome#First_case), which in and of itself is pretty cool. It's pronounced "Otoko", "dan", "nan", "o" or "mi", depending on the context or compound word it may be part of. Damn, and I thought English was hard It is.  Japanese has a much stricter grammar and no gender, truly. Or plurals. Or strict word order. Or even conjugation (as English speakers know it). All vowels are pure vowels and there is no stress. 

I found speaking Japanese infinitely easier than writing it, however. Kanji are not easy.  Well it does have strict word order depending on the clause used.  The clause is king, but the sentence is not.

Kinda like how the sentence is a boat full of voyaging clauses. Air writing  Hehe, I "wrote" it on my hand while talking. It's an insufferable habit I picked up in China, where *everyone* does it. The Japanese pronunciation of the kanji for "10,000", , is actually "man". The pronunciation of the Japanese word for man, , is actually "dan" or "otoko". It's a coincidence.  Scrolled down the comments just to find this one. I have a feeling someone misunderstood what she wanted or did a really bad googling job. &gt; It's a coincidence. 

It's a Kanji pun... a very expensive one. [deleted] As a Brit your comment confused me for a while As a Brit your comment confuses me. Are you from Liverpool or something? I'm pretty sure the Liverpool pronunciation of "man" is "ey lad". "Oi cunt".  u wot m8? stahb him mahn Actually, I doubt it's a coincidence.  being pronounced like man is probably why the tattoo artist (or she) thought it was man. It's not a coincidence, it's just the millionth case of someone poorly translating characters they know nothing about for a tattoo.  
They probably just saw "english: man" and were like yep, that's the right one.  
I don't know why OP feels that sorry for this girl, if I were going to permanently mark my skin with something, I would research the SHIT out of it. I would call up Japan and ask if they would like , just to make sure the answer anything but "HAIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII".  
No matter who translated it, it comes down to that girls fault for accepting it. OP did something nice by being a professional asian for her, and she gets upset at a social gathering, like it was his fault for pointing it out. I guess she doesn't deserve the "man" part yet. One time I went out with a guy who has a tattoo. He told me his tattoo meant "spirit fighter." I am fluent in Chinese and I saw his tattoo. 

Instead of "spirit fighter", his tattoo read "chicken ghost." I told him what he tattoo meant. Granted he didn't believe me and became very upset.

Poor "chicken ghost". Sad, because I think Chicken Ghost is a cooler tattoo :) Right. Could just as well translate as 'Ghost cock', and now we're in solid cool territory. "Your tattoo fits because I can't even tell you're there!" Chinese tattoo artists must have a ball making these up. I believe that may actually be a racial slur, akin to tattooing Nig* on black person who can't read it. e.g.  = "black ghost" (but you know what we REALLY mean.... /eyeroll) "Chicken Ghost" is not one I'm familiar with although __(something)__ + Gwai (Gui) is used for (what we would consider) racist labels in China. I can see no logical connection otherwise between the characters related to "soldier/fighter" and "chicken". I had a long-haired rocker friend who played in a band. He got a tattoo of "guitar" on his forearm in Chinese. One night we were out eating Chinese and the waitress said "you like archery?" and he said "No it's guitar". And she said "No it means the bow and arrow string silly!" and cheerfully walked away.  He should take up archery as a new hobby and then all will be right with the world and he can show off his cool archers tat. He should string his guitar up like a bow and fire arrows while shredding.

One does not rock by changing for the world, one rocks by being so awesome that the world changes for you. Guitar:  or   
Bow and string:   
In case you are curious  
Edited: formatting &gt; Guitar:  or 

&gt; Bow and string: 

&gt; In case you are curious

Added some line breaks for easier reading. 

| English   | Chinese    | Alt. Spelling     |
|:-----------|:------------:|:------------:|
| Guitar        |          |         
| Bow &amp; String|        |       

Turned it into a table for even easier reading.  
Repeated the bottom one for easy comparing. Guitar

: 



 

or





Bow

and

string

:





In

case 

you 

are 

curious

Added some line breaks for easier reading. Your friend is a dumbass. i dont understand why anyone would get a tattoo in a language they dont read or even begin to comprehend.  I think it is because when you get a tattoo in a language you can read, it feels like a word. The verbal meaning kind of "inhibits" the actual image - you will never be able to see the image as purely a picture no matter how hard you try. To have that on your body feels distracting, you will mentally say the word whenever you look upon it.

Whereas when it's a language you can't read, it feels like a pretty swirl of lines. You can focus on the pretty image without the meaning leaping out at you. You are able to appreciate the purely aesthetic elements of it in a way that a person who has spent their entire life using it as a regular word can't. The meaning is secret, subdued.

Edit: See what I mean?  http://imgur.com/LA7OXTD
http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/asia/china/5170898/Chinese-craze-for-English-tattoos.html

Now that I think of it, as single word tattoos go putting "value" on your body is a deeper statement than "love" or "hope" or "mom" or whatever people usually get. All the same, I don't think an English speaker would ever think of that particular word as a tattoo. I bet it's a translation of some totally cliche tattoo in her language.

Edit2 (not that I'm knocking cliche tattoos, the point of tattoos is not necessarily to be unique) I once considered a tattoo that is basically just a sentence; a motto I thought was somewhat admirable. But I didn't want anyone to read it, I wanted it for myself. So I invented a needlessly complicated cipher to mask the legibility. Not sure if I still like the motto, but still love the concept.  Hmm... now I'm wondering if there is an aesthetic way to have both an encripted message *and* a cipher on your body, so that passerby wouldn't immediately know but someone *could* decode it if they took the time.

(Couple's tattoos are dangerous territory, but that would be an *awesome* couple's tattoo, where you can decode only with both of them present) http://i104.photobucket.com/albums/m186/chaizuk/tenac.jpg I once worked out a tattoo full of complicated numerology shit, it was a lot of small parts that seemed to mean all of this profound shit, but if you looked at the "big picture" the primary number was 0, meaning nothing.  I thought I was quite clever at making a trendy looking numerology tattoo design that ultimately literally meant nothing.  As a test I tried to explain it to a stripper.  It only took a minute for her to get it, but I realized I would literally spend the entire rest of my life having the same conversation, explaining that it's a reference that we attach meaning to things that are meaningless. Oh, Nadiar you crazy nihilist, you! The majority of my career has been working with refugees. As a result, I have a sleeve tattoo made up of the word Peace in 32 different languages, which I've got from asylum seekers I've worked with (and a few from friends). 

To date this hasn't happened, but my heart skips a beat when someone begins examining my arm, and points at their language. 

I just know someone someday is going to be like "why the fuck did you put Douche Bag in Tamil on your arm?"

Edit; poor shot of the sleeve here: http://imgur.com/gallery/JkOkyY5/new

To clarify a few things: 

- There is an AK47 and an M16 with their barrels bent into a peace symbol (no, they aren't shooting peace)
- There are little toy army men which are there because (a) It's irony re: playing war as a kid, and (b) I like the way they look
- The red crosses represent the International Committee of the Red Cross, an organization I highly respect. Also, I've volunteered with the Canadian Red Cross for many years, and now volunteer with the British Red Cross. There are 7 red crosses, with a letter in each cross. Represents the [Core ICRC Principles](https://www.icrc.org/eng/resources/documents/misc/fundamental-principles-commentary-010179.htm)

Thanks for the interest! 

Edit 2; This is really fun, thanks for asking so many questions, for confirming (or pointing out mistakes), the compliments, and the humour. I'll ask my little lady to take some better shots and put them up in /r/tattoos (probably more appropriate there)

Edit 3; Gilded! Thank you anonymous gilder! However, you know who you should guild and deserves it much more than me? The Red Cross, or maybe even better, refugee service providers in your area! They are all over the world, and under funded :) (that doesn't mean that I don't love the fact that you've popped my gold cherry, and that it makes me feel good about myself in a selfish way!)

Edit 4; For those asking about the other arm, it is Haida artwork. I grew up in Alberta, Canada, and we traveled often to BC (west coast Canada). I have always loved the artwork of the [Haida people](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Haida_people). When I had my artist create a sleeve out of this artwork, I had him create non-traditional animals, which were key to events in my life. He did an absolutely amazing job, and it is still not 100% complete. I am not Haida, nor do I belong to any of Canada's First Nations communities. I just like the style of artwork.

Edit 5; Posted to /r/tattoos - [The full sleeve](http://imgur.com/a/G5Sxr) Thanks all for the wonderful comments! This has been fun, and, as I've read so many times, RIP Inbox "So, uh, how do you write 'Peace' in your native language?"

"It's *so-and-so*"

Proceed to rip off the sleeve from your shirt and stab-tattoo the word near the other ones while cackling maniacally and yelling "Another one for my collection!".

You should totally do this. If you're not doing it already, of course. Any Albanian words in your sleeve ?

Thanks Paqe! yessir, right under the army men

...at least i think it is? Paqe? Oh man, that's Albanian for 30,000 huge, hairy, sweaty men.  Make it a life goal. That's how my grandma died. It's how she *lived*! nailed it (figuratively) Tamil guy here... looking at the first half of the word, it looks correct.. hahaha This is astonishing. I don't know why I love this tattoo so much- I just really, really do. You are a cool human. You too are a cool human.

*They don't suspect a thing!* Wouldn't that be easy to check for most languages, before you get it tattooed? I suspect that it would usually be enough to pull whatever word it is through google translate, that also gives a fairly decent spellcheck.

Edit: Yes guys, I know, google translate isn't foolproof, especially with character based languages. However, if your funny foreign friend is telling you that something means "love the world" and google tells you that it means "death to all the goatpeople", then at least you know that you should look for a more reliable source before getting it permanently inked into your skin. I also used Google translate as a last check. So yes, great point. Google Translate feels like cheating. If someone gives you "Douchebag" to put on your arm as a gag, you should do it.

In the name of peace and all... A "douche bag" sleeve in different languages would be friggin hilarious

with literal translations, like "women's water bather" or whatever.  Online translators aren't always reliable. I learned this the hard way when I translated, "hey! i'm making you dinner tonight! no excuses!" into Chinese, and sent it to a male friend.  The meaning of the translation he got was that he was going to be my dinner that evening.  And apparently the words the translator decided to use gave it a highly sexual connotation.  "One of us will be in my mouth tonight" no excuses! Great, will there be dessert!? there has to be a sub reddit! 
want this translated! we will do it for you! and correctly! just post!  [Here it is.](http://www.reddit.com/r/translator/) Google Translate should be the first check and a human the last. People really shouldn't rely on it so much, it's still not that great. Chinese letters are a bit more complicated as one word may have several meanings depending on context used. I know, that's why I said 'most languages'. If /u/ShawlWallah is using many different languages, then it probably includes many who use the (roman?) alphabet. In those cases, google translate can be a decent extra check. I'm not usually a fan of full sleeve tattoos, but that one is actually a really cool idea Well I can at least tell you that the Hebrew is correct Well, that makes sense. What doesn't make sense is when someone does it for no reason or back story. Like my cousin randomly getting Chinese lettering tattooed on his side. Why Chinese lettering of all things? He doesn't know either. I've seen quite a few English speaking people with "their name in Chinese" tattooed on them, despite having no idea how to pronounce/read the characters. Most of the time their lame semi-phonetic approximations. Like someone called "Jack" getting "" (ya ke). I guess to each their own but to me it's weird since the person has no idea what the characters mean/say, no connection to Chinese, and it doesn't sound much like the name anyway! Are the other tattoos Haida art?  they are! great eye Came here to day how beautiful the Haida part was lol I don't have a tattoo. I've always wondered what I'd get if I ever got one. Thank you for answering that question for me.  I didnt know what I wanted to get either, so I went to a local parlor that had Mystery Tattoos with two friends. Essentially, it was a gumball machine full of small pieces like pinup girls, animals, or plants. So I put a quarter in, turned the dial, and out came a topless hula girl. Shes been on my leg for about 4 years now and I still love it. My friends got a burlesque pinup girl and a duck. I wanna see itttt!  I'm guessing that the  is Mandarin / Cantonese?

In Japanese  (wahei) does mean peace ... kind of, but it's more of a legal / political term. The reverse  (heiwa) is the most common way to get your meaning across in Japanese, I think. Japanese isn't always written from left to right, technically - though in the context of his sleeve it would be. I can read Japanese and noticed  (heiwa) and unless I'm missing something yours is backwards as  (wahei) 

I confirmed it with my Japanese friend as well and she said wahei means peace as well actually. but 95% of Japanese use it the other way around. 
It doesn't mean douchebag through. So you're good there
 In Chinese, (he ping) is exactly how you write peace. So I guess in this instance it's safe to say it was written in Chinese, not Japanese. German (Friede) and Latin (Pax) are correct. Can't answer the other ones, but I hope you feel relieved now ^^


Edit: Friede is quite old and Frieden is used more common nowadays. But just because it's old doesn't mean it's wrong imo. In fact I quite like old German words that nobody uses. :D Frieden would be a bit more common, as Friede has a bit of a religious connotation.

http://www.duden.de/rechtschreibung/Friede

1. [vertraglich gesicherter] Zustand des inner- oder zwischenstaatlichen Zusammenlebens in Ruhe und Sicherheit; Friedensschluss: meist Frieden
2. Zustand der Eintracht, der Harmonie;  ungestrte Ruhe; Zustand beschaulich-heiterer Ruhe: meist Frieden
3. Geborgenheit in Gott: meist Friede I've actually never heard the word "Friede" in common speach at all. The only instance where I've ever heard it was at the end of the German dub of "Star Wars I". It sound's kind of outdated to my "native ears". The word was propably more common around 100 or 200 years ago.

"Frieden" is the word usually used in modern speach. how about "Friede, Freude, Eierkuchen" :D I'm swiss so i'm just curious: "Friede" sounds to me like "old german" like maybe used for poetry and old phrasings like "Friede sei mit dir"? I'm really just wondering since i'm used to hear/say "Friede**n**". Since we are only borrowing your language i might just not be used to it. Our pronunciation is again different to yours.


But as you mentioned, the word is correct, i was just wondering about it's current use. You are quite correct. Friede is by now almost exclusively used in a religious sense and it doesn't mean peace as in peace between two peoples. It means to be in peace with god. 
In olden times it used to mean both though.

Nowadays Frieden is used exclusively when talking about the relationship between men. Accordingly while the use here is not wrong by definition, it would cause any native speaker reason to pause. It's not the meaning the other translations have. OP can always claim to be religious or a time traveler though ;) So he's got a poetic sleeve! When you say the "peace symbol" do you mean the [CND symbol?](http://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Campaign_for_Nuclear_Disarmament)

Edit:
Yes people I get it's better known as "the peace symbol" I just wished to know if that's what he was referring to and if you were to get something in ink I think it's important to actually understand what it means as that's what the whole post was all about.

Edit2. Formatting and spelling because I was short of time and at work. &gt; CND symbol?

TIL that. Could you provide a picture of this? Seems really interesting to me. Same with ridiculous t-shirt slogans. If you think the English speaking world and Chinese character tattoos are bad... Asian "Engrish" slogans/tattoos are the same if not worse.

I was recently in Daejeon, Korea a week ago at a department store, and right on the second floor there was a small area where shades and shirts were being sold. Right there in the center, there was a pitch black shirt with the word **FUCK** in the largest, blockiest white text. I'd have thought that even an average person would know that fuck is a curse word, but apparently not so...

Also, a burger chain in Korea called Lotteria has a pretty weird... stuff... written on their tills. Namely like [this] (http://koreanoodles.com/wp-content/uploads/2014/07/engrish-lotteria-02.jpg), and [that] (http://koreanoodles.com/wp-content/uploads/2014/07/engrish-lotteria-01.jpg). Its actually a poem, one that I think is actually really cool. The problem is just that, being Korean, they did not put it up on the walls very well. Very "Dont dead, open inside".


Redneck bikers munching sliders

look to the past for better riders

stars and stripes and girls in stetsons

cows in buns and boys in westerns

rock then roll for big check pay days

mountain ranges, ten lane freeways

this land is our land but once was their land

the untamed food of gold rush miners

the beef, the fries, the roadside diners

oh say can you see from the nation of night

its gift to the world, the burger is might yeah it's never in that order.  It's always all jumbled up and in different orders in different restaurants.

Good to know it wasn't originally total nonsense though. God, that's beautiful! Children in American schools should place their hands over their hearts and recite this every morning while gazing upon the American flag.  Holy shit I just got back from Hong Kong and a day in Shenzhen today and there were some fucking HILARIOUS shirts being worn by the local kids and even the elderly. A 90 year old man had a hat with huge printed words SEX GOD, a whole gaggle of school kids in hemp leaf/#420 silhouette printed shirts, random teens wearing shirts with stuff like "FUCK OFF OK" and "EAT SHIT DIE"  

Solid black clothes with BOLD white text seems to be all the rage over there right now.  Swear words are holding their emotional baggage mainly in your first language. It's quite easy to say a swear word in a language you learned later on.

Everybody knows what **FUCK** means, but the foreign language allows you to be rebellious without feeling bad yourself or making others feel bad to much. That word wouldn't fly in the native language, even if everybody knows they have equal meaning. "Fuck" isn't the worst slogan, right? I mean "Chicken soup" would be worse. I was mainly surprised how such a shirt managed to get through to be sold. But you're right, [it isn't the worst slogan.] (https://s-media-cache-ak0.pinimg.com/236x/e0/25/49/e025496201e0dc6bb9f12fb6aba05a14.jpg)

EDIT: For the record, chicken soup is * in Korean. Seeing that on a t-shirt would be interesting. I once saw a shirt in china that said 'designers are queer'. We get the odd person popping over to /r/ireland to ask for a translation of a sentence into gaeilge. I politely point them to [this](http://news.bme.com/2007/02/23/drugail-saor/) article of a person who got "DRUGAIL SAOR" tattooed on them.

"DRUGAIL SAOR" doesn't translate as 'Drug Free' like she meant it to, it would more loosely translate as "Free to drug" or even "Free drugs" at a stretch if you were feeling mean although it's really a rather meaningless phrase to be honest. 

I always thought this was  hilarious: http://i.imgur.com/BFi9HY0.jpg .
 I'm with you. I wouldn't even dream of getting another language tattooed unless I was 100% positive I knew what it meant I have my name in Arabic tattooed on my ankle, I got three Arabic people to write it out, I went to google translate about ten times. But was still relieved and creeped out when an Arab guy came running up to me calling my name and pointing at my foot I remember when I was a kid and bought a shirt with my school's logo on it and my name on the back. That was so cool. Pssh, all these nerds talking about tattoos, but you da real man! Do you mind if i ask why you got your name written in arabic? Tell me about it. There is a long going trend of getting Hebrew tattoos. A lot of people use a translation software and a lot of tattoo artists who aren't familiar with the letters mess it up colossally. There are [entire websits](http://www.badhebrew.com/) dedicated to bad Hebrew tattoos which, as a native Hebrew speaker, I find immensely enjoyable. "Make it a life goal!" Great comedy, wrong audience.  A male making "witty" comments while correcting a female in front of a crowd of protective lesbians...dude, you have to choose your audience better! just throw her a fresh pair of crocs and make a bee line for the door. LOL for a second I forgot crocs were shoes. I was like WTF throwing crocodiles at people is a tad extreme and who carries one let alone two about :P. Thanks for the unintentional laugh mate :D [She should have just gone with the universal] (http://www.clipartbest.com/cliparts/LcK/zL5/LcKzL5pca.jpeg) Fun fact! The men and women bathroom signs were designed in Japan for the 1964 Tokyo Olympics because Japanese is a non-Latin language and most visitors wouldn't have been able to read bathroom signs. 

Edit: people seem to be confused by the "non-Latin" thing. I suppose it would have been more accurate to say Japanese has a non-Latin alphabet, meaning it doesn't have letters derived from Latin like English/Spanish/French/German does. Unlike a sign in, say, Spanish, you can't look at Japanese and sound it out in order to check your guidebook.  Ah, reddit. Come for the laffs, stay for the knowledge bombs. A good friend of mine (a white guy) had a mutual acquaintance of ours translate "Stupid American" into hanzi for him, and had it tattooed, big as life on the back of his calf, where everyone can see it.  Irony at its best and most committed.

Makes me wonder about all of the people who can read Chinese, and how many of them specifically don't mention it in order to avoid the uncomfortable conversation that they imagine would follow... or just think that he's a rube and got what he deserved. I once met a guy who thought his tattoo said "Lover of Asian beauty" but it was actually "Child-loving pervert". I thought it might do him a favor to let him know.

He didn't believe me, obviously, but we were outside a coffeeshop across from an Asian imports store whose cashier was a young blonde woman who had grown up in China and was far more fluent than I.

So I told him, "go across the street, ask them what it says, and if I'm wrong I'll give you this $20 bill" that I took out of my wallet.

He goes over and is inside for a few minutes before coming back out, completely red in the face.

He flipped me off from across the street, yelled "FUCK YOU", and left without coming back for the rest of his coffee.
 "Lover of Asian beauty" is still a horrible thing to tattoo on yourself. Yea, that doesn't reek of Yellow Fever or any such fetishes. But it's ~sO KaWAii~ &gt;FUCK YOU

Yeah, it was all your fault. In a situation where the tattoo reads something extremely offensive or morally wrong then I think it's the right choice to tell them. At least then they can get it covered or start saving for laser removal. 

 You were helping him, I don't understand  He really, _really_ didn't like hearing that for _n_ years he had been walking around with a tattoo that said "pedo" that was putting the kibosh on his yellow fever. Honestly, that sounds awesome. I'd get one of those if I ever found myself in a Chinese tattoo parlor. it sounds like a great conversation starter. 

then again I've contemplated getting a dickbutt tattoo.  I've also thought about a dick butt tattoo. My rule is if I want it in 2 years, get it. I'm around 1 year and am still keen  Where are you going to put it though? On your dick or your butt? Why not both?  ... I kinda want to get a sharpie/fake tattoo &amp; try this with my Chinese colleagues ...

I think I know what my plans are for April 1st Suuure, that's what he *thinks* it says... TL;DR: Lesbian didn't check her facts and OP gave her a life goal. It's easy to mistake, because "10.000" in Japanese is read "man", so it's an easy mistake if you google search for the characters. [It checks out](http://imgur.com/4IWeEqo) Gonna have to agree with you there! However, upon reflecting on this more.  I think she should have gone for Female and Male as descriptions of gender rather than Man and Woman which are descriptions regarding the maturity levels of gender. The correct characters OP listed are actually male and female prefixes. The words for boy and girl, for example, are those characters followed by the word for child.  what is the big deal her tattoos read 10,000 women, and she is a lesbian

she should be stoked She can just tell people it's because she has the strength of 10,000 women. This is a completely salvageable fuck up. It's a symbol for tens of thousands of strong women who have walked the path for understanding and equality. I can proudly say that I am getting there. We are getting there. The hard job of tens of thousands of women is not pointless. That sounds a lot better than the gender-continuum spiel. But meanwhile in China... 

http://imgur.com/HOsNR49 [Meanwhile in Japan.](http://i.imgur.com/Qo7aGVU.jpg) The Japanese are the best at English. Fucking James Joyce couldn't come up with anything even half as brilliant as "What's so fuck then?" I was reading a BMX magazine where they mentioned seeing Chinese people walking around with T-shirts with phrases like "I have crabs" during one of their tours. This is my all time favorite mistranslation. NSFW text, but otherwise fine.

http://www.engrish.com//wp-content/uploads/2010/08/fuck-the-duck.jpg Anyone interested in more (hilarious) stories like OP's should check out this site:

[http://hanzismatter.blogspot.com/](http://hanzismatter.blogspot.com/)

Also, note the "gibberish Asian font" template found in many tattoo parlors:

[http://hanzismatter.blogspot.com/2006/08/gibberish-asian-font-mystery-solved.html](http://hanzismatter.blogspot.com/2006/08/gibberish-asian-font-mystery-solved.html) I have a Danish friend who hung a piece of Chinese calligraphy on his wall for six years.

Upside down. Until I spotted it. my partner is Japanese and often sees the dodgy tattooed kanji on people. best we saw was at a spa, a woman with 3 kanji characters down her arm that translated to man milk cow Maybe she wants to be milked Or maybe she likes man milk. LPT: Any sentence starting with "Actually" should be completely avoided.  Actually, I completely agree with you. "Obviously" as well - if it's really obvious, you don't need to finish the sentence; if it's not, you're just being condescending. You said you were living in China for awhile.

Am I correct in assuming that Chinese girls (or Asian girls in general) don't have *English* word tattoos, and that this is mostly a white girl trend? [Some do.](http://i.imgur.com/LA7OXTD.jpg) hooooly crap. I didn't know this was a thing.

Ever seen any that were obviously not what the owner thought they were?  Probably that one in the picture. That one could be a lot worse. 

Though I am strongly reminded of Great Value Walmart brand products. Lucky Aide! 

The 'L' stands for 'Value'!  [deleted] http://i.imgur.com/MWNQrqH.gif Prison trump for sure [Lest in Peace](http://courses.thomas.org.br/blog/wp-content/uploads/2013/10/Lest-in-Peace.jpg) No no... I'm sure in China everyone has tattoos in English that say "love, fire, strength, honor". 
... You know, really unique tattoos.  They mostly put their hilarious mistranslations on shirts and food packaging. [You] (https://s-media-cache-ak0.pinimg.com/236x/00/e4/c1/00e4c1a99b9a5503bc61a14b14707a62.jpg) [don't] (http://www.engrish.com/wp-content/uploads//2012/04/crotch-steamed-dish.jpg) [say] (http://www.peninsularity.com/wp-content/uploads/2013/05/Konglish-T-shirt.jpg). 

Added hilarity, I have no idea who on earth comes up with this sort of slogan ideas. [I doubt] (https://thaicurryinkorea.files.wordpress.com/2012/08/kid-tshirt.jpg) [even] (http://www.ithinknot.us/images-phase_3_travels/blog_pics/engrish/shirts/Tokyo%20Shirt.jpg) [google] (http://i2.asntown.net/ha/mix3/englishtshirt/english-tshirt014.jpg) [translate] (http://www.engrish.com/wp-content/uploads//2012/09/dirty-dancing.jpg) [would] (http://joshreads.com/images/07/07/enjoydoing-clambake.jpg) [make] (http://www.hellodamage.com/tdr/archive/5diary/nopointsmall/hatehoneyshirt.jpg) [these] (http://farm4.static.flickr.com/3095/2710763074_b0781e8e0e.jpg) [possible.] (http://www.weirdasianews.com/wp-content/uploads/2009/06/engrish-shirts.jpg)

EDIT: Replaced cocktail menu because it was saying essentially what the Korean menu was saying.  http://xkcd.com/1475/ [Image](http://imgs.xkcd.com/comics/technically.png)

**Title:** Technically

**Title-text:** "Technically that sentence started with 'well', so--" "Ooh, a rock with a fossil in it!"

[Comic Explanation](http://www.explainxkcd.com/wiki/index.php/1475#Explanation)

**Stats:** This comic has been referenced 61 times, representing 0.1238% of referenced xkcds.

---
^[xkcd.com](http://www.xkcd.com) ^| ^[xkcdsub](http://www.reddit.com/r/xkcd/) ^| ^[Problems/Bugs?](http://www.reddit.com/r/xkcd_transcriber/) ^| ^[Statistics](http://xkcdref.info/statistics/) ^| ^[StopReplying](http://reddit.com/message/compose/?to=xkcd_transcriber&amp;subject=ignore%20me&amp;message=ignore%20me) ^| ^[Delete](http://reddit.com/message/compose/?to=xkcd_transcriber&amp;subject=delete&amp;message=delete%20t1_co12dda) Starting a sentence with LPT should be completely avoided as well. http://i.imgur.com/tPnCO.jpg 90% of white people I see with Chinese/Japanese character tattoos on them are wrong or non-sensical As a former Army recruiter, we had to fill out a form whenever someone had a tattoo.  This kid had one and I had to fill out the form.  Before I go on, let me tell you that the kid was an asshat.  He had been a dick about everything from day one.  The perfect person to put on a hill all by himself.

So, I looked at the tattoo and it was a Chinese symbol on the back of his neck.  We had to put on the form what it meant and what it meant to them if it was ambiguous.  So I asked "What does this symbol mean".  He said it was the Chinese symbol for courage.

I asked him if he spoke or read Chinese.  He said that he did not.  I told him that he really didn't know what it meant and that the guy that put it there could have put his mom's name on his neck.  With a worried look he said "It means courage".  That kid was, and probably still is, a turd.

EDIT:  Kid was a dick, not a disk. I have a cousin who has a Chinese tattoo on his arm. It supposedly says "assassin". Every time I see it, I wonder "does it really say that?" But then again, either way, it's a pretty bad tattoo. 


He is a truck driver with a Chinese tattoo that might say "assassin". Don't feel bad. I used to work in a tattoo shop and in my area at least we got way more requests to cover up Kanji than to do them. I always felt uncomfortable tattooing languages I couldn't read, especially on clients who also couldn't also read them, but at the end of the day the contract the clients all signed puts full responsibility for meaning and spelling on the client. Looks like you just taught her a lesson on doing her research before making a permanent decision... plus, pretty much anyone who gets enough tattoos ends up getting at least one or two they regret even if they don't decide to get them covered right away.

 You know who gets stupid tattoos in a foreign language they don't understand, inked by someone else who doesn't understand the language?

Stupid people. I was in the supermarket once with my friend who lives in Japan, he started laughing at this gym rat who was walking around in a wife beater really proud of his kanji tattoo on his shoulder. I asked my friend what was so funny and he said "oh just that guys tattoo - it says rice". Maybe he was just big on carbs? Confucious say, "measure twice and scissor once." I bet she scissored more than once ... Wait I'm Japanese so I  could read kanji.  is actually read as ''man'' in Japanese so it's close, but no cigar lmao.  It's really really hard to speak Japanese and not make an ass of yourself correcting people's tattoos. "This one means 'happiness.'" Actually, it means  "medicine," and you probably got it because it looked like "fun," which, coincidentally, doesn't mean "happiness." Actually, "ten thousand" in Japanese is literally pronounced "man" (but with a Jamaican accent). Ha, this is perfect.  (ten-thousand) is pronounces "man" in Japanese. So technically it does say man and woman on her tattoo just in other langages. At least she can still add a couple of lines and turn into a . Almost the same thing happened to me. I saw a woman with  running down her back. I asked her if shwas Korean. She said no and told me she was Mexican. I asked her if she was Mexican why she had "hangul" the name of the Korean alphabet running down her back. She responded by telling me it was actually Chinese for beautiful and walked away in a huff. One of her friends then said "She's waay out of your league. You shouldn't have bothered." and left with her. Every time I see people tattoo Chinese words on their body give me shivers, especially the ones that don't make sense. Us Chinese just don't tattoo words on our body like that. Please you people check the words with a lot of Chinese before you tattoo it on your body. I thank you all for appreciating the culture, but for the love of God please stop doing it. And please, don't use it as a talking point. It is like asking me if I like egg roll. 

I actually think "thousand girl" is better than "man women". "men women" just don't make sense in Chinese. If I see her on the street I would just think she did not knowing how to interpret what she meant in Chinese. If I was her friend I would not say a thing because well the tattoo is permanent. There is nothing she can do at this point. You were the idiot who pointed it out.

Edit: I know tattoo is removable nowadays, but I still think of tattoo as something requires serious decision making one got to make. Laser removal is painful. Why is it like asking you if you like egg roll? When I was in college I met people who grew up in neighborhoods that are not that diverse. For them I was different. So as an ice breaker they would ask me questions such as which Chinese dish I like and things like that. It was like they asked me if I like egg roll, in a sense. Someone did show me his Chinese tattoo. I am proud to be Chinese. But there are things in my life that are more interesting than that.  &gt;Us Chinese just don't tattoo words on our body like that. 

I've been to China a few times but I haven't had a lot of experience with tattoos there. But I've never really been looking for it. I'm just curious if tattoos in general are really rare, or just tattoos of words. 

It would kinda surprise me if Chinese people who do have tattoos didn't really use Chinese characters very often. In my experience at least, calligraphy is a much more celebrated art in China than in America, and it's not that weird to see families hang up "words" in their house whereas in America it would be kind of strange to put up a big white canvas with "LUCK" written across it in black ink.  I can't speak for everyone in China so this reply only applies to where I grew up in, which is Hong Kong. The older generation don't usually have tattoos on their bodies because tattoo signifies that someone is/was in the [Triads](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Triad_%28organized_crime%29).Vice did a documentary about tattoos in Hong Kong. I don't recall knowing anyone older than me got a tattoo. I have only seen it in the movies where the gangsters have dragon tattoos on their bodies. That movie was years ago but tattoo is still a stigma. So even if a young adult got a tattoo of a Buddha, they would tattoo it somewhere they can hide under a shirt or pant. 
I still remembered it when people started to notice the NBA players tattoo Chinese characters on their bodies, people around me all thought that was weird. It is just weird to tattoo characters on your body even though you don't understand the language at all. Calligraphy on paper is well celebrated in China, but it is not a norm to tattoo characters on bodies. I have heard it is also because in the history, only the prisoners get tattooed with characters. I got to find out more to say more. Tattoo I have seen are more on symbols, animals and well thought out graphics.

Edit: [This pretty much sums up why I think it is weird for me to see NBA players (Marcus Camby in this case) who know no Chinese, tattoo themselves with Chinese characters.] (http://www.nganfineart.com/calli-tattoo/tattoo_celeb_marcus-camby_en.html) As Chinese...

Mfw I was watching porn and noticed the meaningless/ridiculous Chinese characters on actor's body.

Stop doing that guys. Totally not cool.

BTW,  just makes no sense.

Edit: It's like you want to say "ten thousand women" but you say "ten grand women". That does really suck for the poor girl who knows she's got a shitty tattoo, but someone was going to point it out eventually, and it just happened to be you. And, with the permanence of tattoos, it's really her responsibility to check up *thoroughly* what the meaning was. Like the other commenters said, I can't understand why someone wouldn't like make ten forum posts, ask three natives, check stackexchange and reddit and so on to get the perfect translation, before stabbing the words into your body. Seems more like to me she needs to do a TIFU about getting a tattoo without actually knowing what it means. It's sooo common unfortunately... OP didn't FU at all. They taught a room of lesbians a valuable lesson about tattoos and at the same time embarassed a girl who said a painfully cringey backstory to her outrageously unoriginal tattoo.  She got a tattoo in a language she doesn't speak to make her look more "cultured" in the eyes of her sycophantic peers, she's an idiot. You just brought her face to face with this fact. Good on you OP. She could've bought a bonsai tree instead. Unfortunate.  She could, but then she'd have to bring it around with her, or show people photos of it which will direct the attention she so desperately needs away from herself. this needs to be the top comment. &gt; this ~~needs to be the top comment.~~ I have a friend with a tattoo who thought his tattoo said "I love my mom". Turned out it said "I love your mom". He was fine with it. That lesbian's name? Albert Einstein. you didn't fuck up. She did  Here in Brazil people love getting tattoos in Katakana, the Japanese script for foreign words. Which is fine, really. It renders some weird results, like a guy I saw in the subway whose (presumably) girlfriend was named Flavia and his tattoo read "Furabia". 

But even this lends to its share of idiocy. There was a special feature on a soccer player on tv once where they mentioned his tattoos. The reporter said they were Japanese, but they were just katakana, of his daughters' names and of "God". But not God in Japanese. God in Portuguese (Deus) transliterated into katakana (Deusu). As someone who knows the basics of both of those languages, [neat!](https://d1icoid1cnixnp.cloudfront.net/wp-content/2010/bender/05.jpg) Could've used the katakana v, I suppose.  My thoughts exactly. But that would be too much to expect from your average katakana tattooee. When I went to China I did the tourist schtick, which involved some dude writing my first name in Chinese characters. Problem is, my name is Ralf. So, with the non-distinction between "r" and "l", and the fact that Chinese can't end a word in a consonant, they ended up writing "laifu". I threw the paper away the day after. that started since the Vietnam war when US soldiers would return home with a tattoo saying fearless dragon and it was actually "small penis"....

I also find very ironic people with arabic religious tattoos (Koran verses, or God's name, etc. etc.) since you can't show your faith with something that is technically forbidden in islam (tattoos). &gt; I also find very ironic people with arabic religious tattoos (Koran verses, or God's name, etc. etc.) since you can't show your faith with something that is technically forbidden in islam (tattoos).

You don't think it's a double meaning? "I don't give a shit about your stupid rules but Allah is still great"? My guess would be that it mostly comes from ignorance of the rules rather than a blatant disregard for them.  Actually, it would be orthodox christian Arabic. No, i don't, because noone "sets the rules" except the one whom you chose to write the name on your skin. Its more of an insult than a tribute. same for Judaism and by extension Christianity but that doesn't stop anyone Tattoos aren't forbidden in Christianity. And please don't quote Leveticus. Heathens! They should have gotten a tattoo that says "Leviticus 19:28" instead. My friend is Asian(Indian Asian not USA version of asian) she has a tattoo of the symbol for Virgo on her wrist.  Apparently this looks similar to the establishment for Allah turned on its side....  Ive seen her get spat at in McDonald's by some hardcore Muslims.   I learned a long time ago how little value there actually is in being right. Well, in Japanese ten thousand is phonetically pronounced 'man', so she was correct in a way....
 I once saw a guy with "I don't eat meat" tattooed on his leg in Chinese. I almost went up and asked him what he thought it meant, but I didn't want to ruin it for him.

Also, a tattoo of "man woman"makes no sense...It would have been nonsense. Pro tip guys: don't ever get a tattoo in a language you don't understand. Although (danjo) actually exists as a word, and means "men and women, man and woman, both sexes/genders".  I should have mentioned that I mean from a Chinese standpoint...as far as I know in Chinese this combo doesn't have a real meaning and would be pretty much the same as tattooing "man woman"in English on yourself. I could be wrong though, I'm not a native speaker. I also was asked to translated a neck tatoo of 2 Japanese kanji for a guy I met at a dinner party, but I didn't have the courage to tell him  that his "Star Warrior" was more like "Dirt Bag" Am i the only one that thinks whoever actually gets those kind of tattoos are fucking dumb and deserve to have shit like "i love dicks" and "fat woman" permanently written on them as punishment for their douchery.  Anyone who is of baseline intelligence and savvy is translating it as such anyway.  That save was actually kind of ace. yours says "SWEET".  What's mine say??? Duuuuuuudeee This happens all the time!  I was at a basketball game with a flight attendant who had gotten some kanji tattooed on her forearm that she thought read 'wild woman'. The asshole tattoo artist had given her 'housewife' instead.  I didn't have the heart to tell her.  I got audentes forutuna iuvat in a cursive scrpt on my neck.  It means fortune favors the brave, from Virgil's poem Pompeii.   The last word looks like it says twat  and I've been asked many times if it in fact says twat.  Now I tell people it's says audentes fortuna twat.  Fortune favors the vagina Actually that would be "fortune vagina the brave" Yay!  Even worse!  How is this your fuck up?

She got a tattoo without understanding its meaning, this is her fuck up. Invite your girlfriend to meet your parents.
Have your father take her aside and ask if potatos were served at the dinner with her parents. When she says yes, he looks alarmed, mutters something about "wanting to keep them from him" and never mentions the subject again. Thats if he still has a girlfriend... She doesn't really seem like a keeper if she can't handle a good ol' fashioned potato joke. she was from latvia. Such is life.  If she really was, OP fucked up really bad. Baked potatoes are by far the most popular dish in Latvia. Latvians don't play when it comes to potatoes. I know because I'm Latvian. You mean potato. There is no such thing as potatoes in Latvia. Don't you dare threaten me with potato shortage Excellent solution I hope your dad is a bro. It's time to take one for the team. This is the only way out.   OP's [dad.](http://imgur.com/4asStRk) If I were a father, I would do this for my son. Not because I would expect it to work, but because it is fun to fuck with people. This is perfect. I lost it at this fuck  When confronted about this horrible joke, insist it never happened with the same level of commitment. 

Maybe they will just think you have a brain disorder. At this point, this is the best idea. Continue to do this with something different every time you see them. "So what's this this giant chair thing we're all sitting on called again? Oh, a Couch! It's very interesting!" "Tastes very strange!" "Get the fuck out of my house" A 'house', oh interesting. Never heard of a house, looks pretty good. Tastes much better than the couch did. "Get the fuck out of my house" A 'fuck', oh that's interesting. Never heard of a fuck before, looks pretty good. Tastes much saltier then the house did. If he does that he can have this Amazing moment when the term "Couch Potato" finally has a full meaning to him. This is the best single thought any human has ever had. Alright, pack it up human race, we're done. *"Ohh, noo... Must've been my evil twin."* Pretend the dinner didn't even happen!

"Of course I know what potatoes are. I've always liked them... What dinner with your parents? Well let me tell you that I was home that night." Well let me tell you, I could see Op saying this. &gt; Maybe they will just think you have a brain disorder

Implying OP doesn't actually have a brain disorder. I think he's already ruined it with his girlfriend and her parents, he may as well go out with a bang.

Do this, OP. Send them a bouquet of potatoes as an apology.
 But on the card write Enjoy your "potatoes", potatoes in quotes as if you still don't really believe they're real "pohtaytoes" Hahaha! Well, they say if you love someone, send them a potato because it lasts longer! And more useful! What better way to say, "I only have eyes for you"? Whats taters This is some straight up Costanza shit. Time for op to Invite the fam out to his place in the hamptons. "You wanna get nuts!?!?" LET'S GET NUTS!! George Costanza would consistently be the greatest redditor of all time.

* Fantastic TIFUs.
* Easily enraged in arguments.
* Hilarious friends and parents for extra stories.
* Celebrity friend for possible AMAs.
* Literally unbelievable stories/events that would cause arguments about whether or not they happened.


 He'd promise Keith Hernandez would come do an AMA within the hour. And after failing to deliver, we'd be here calling OP out on his BS.  "The sea was angry that day, my friends, like an old man trying to send back soup at a deli." TIFU by trying to save some money on stamps. I have never wanted Seinfeld to be back more than after imagining this story line. "I can't go back on it now Jerry!!" I think OP is George Costanza.. that's the only explanation To make it a more Costanza situation, the girlfriend's father should be an actual potato farmer, explaining why he got so mad.  Similar, I thought Larry David.  Never go full potato.  Full what? http://cdn.iwastesomuchtime.com/7142012231507Hklm7.gif Boil em, mash em, stick em in a stew Taters, precious? Wot's taters? [Sorry for potato](http://i.imgur.com/A5KSgwL.png) Good thing I didn't have liquids in my mouth when read this comment.  
 Potato quality joke MY SIDES Soup, salad, or baked potato? I've been with this sub almost since it's inception. I follow idiotsfightingthings and TumblrInAction too. This is the dumbest fucking thing I have ever read on this entire website. Why OP. Why. 

I'm not trying to be mean. It's impressive really.  This might be my new favorite TIFU post ever. OP is fucking weird, man. And I love it.  I can picture it so vividly, it makes me cringe and want to hug OP at the same time. So much better than the "TIFU by getting all this sex" humble brag posts that always make the front page.  I picture him saying everything slightly slowly and with an accent.  &gt; I do not know what is this "potato." This has got to be one of the best TIFUs ever posted, because it enters a realm where it doesn't matter whether the story is real or fake. I've never seen that happen before. Well let me tell you I think I agree with this I'm done letting you guys tell me stuff. I already let OP tell me enough. Let me tell you OP hasn't even started telling you stuff, so I've been told. The poor English and the absolute ridiculousness of this situation make me refuse to even consider that this could possibly be fake. Possibly fake, since a friend told me they'd seen this on the UK tv series 'Cuckoo'.  I tracked down the [video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vdPNbHlFHr0&amp;t=1m32s) (see at 01:34)  -- actually just posted this as a separate comment.  Unless this was inspiration for OP's act! It is meta as fuck. if he really did this, he's a fucking idiot jackass, if he didn't,  he's a fucking idiot jackass for writing this post Yeah, that's pretty much what I was going to say. But I'm sympathetic to this kid -too stupid to know it was a dumb idea, too cowardly to man up and say "I'm joking".

He reminds me of the remote-up-the-ass kid from tosh.0, where tosh berated him for hours to get him to admit he faked it. 

Too stupid and cowardly to know what everyone else already  knows.

Edit: Here's the Tosh.0 "web investigation" of the remote up the butthole kid:
http://tosh.cc.com/blog/2010/07/15/web-investigation-wow-freakout-kid
Edit 2.0: "faked" not "failed", "too" not "to" There's this italian saying that goes something like "if the story ain't true, atleast it's a good one" 

 The simplicity and over the top commitment to keep up the lie makes it work. If he can bold face lie to the Nth degree about a potato, what will he lie through his teeth about next?  As a Dad, I would never be able to trust the guy. Well I've never seen a potato before. Well let me tell you this is the truth I'm sure. I call shenanigans, this is a direct lift-off from an episode in the British TV series "Cukoo". In the 1st or the 2nd episode of the first season, this hippie guy goes to meet his SO's parents and genuinely does not know about what potatoes are. The clincher, he was also served baked potatoes!! YouTube link - www.youtube.com/watch?v=qNQ9VN705As When she tells you she's breaking up with you, tell her you don't know what a break up is.  Commit to that, and exert your dominance.   Well let me tell you, she got a restraining order.  What's a restraining order? So first when the restraining order became on my door, I acted very interesting.  Well let me tell you this has made me very shamed to not know what is a restraining order. Wait what's a door? What is this odd device? What magic allows a man to pass through walls?! [Yes, do that.](https://i.imgur.com/phrl12s.gif) Where is this from?  [deleted] Clicked, confused, ashamed. [deleted] But, why am I still so hard? Probably the coke ["It's an image hosting site, but that's not important right now."](https://filmbalaya.files.wordpress.com/2010/11/g2e22e2000000000000abb27579afb5058a70ff373a336a9f21f992c4f7.jpg) Never heard of it. Looks like an AA meeting in Hawaii. Just sayin. They're rarely good, FYI.
 Hourly updates please. Now have OP tagged as Smeagol.

"Po-tay-toes! Boil 'em, mash 'em, stick 'em in a stew. GET THE FUCK OUT OF MY HOUSE."
 Just say no and quote Seinfeld


"It's like firing a missile from a submarine, both people need to turn their keys " [Extremely relevant, do watch](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=II03SfoHaic) "Why'd you guys break up?"                                                                                                                       "Potatoes" "They sound very interesting. What are they?" In the not so distant future, "Askreddit, what is the dumbest reason you have ever broken up with someone?"


"Because he didn't know what a potato was!" Po-ta-toes.

Share the load. This is literally the dumbest thing I have ever heard, this is one of my favorite fuck ups ever. It's got everything: potatoes, girls, dads, confusion, and yelling. I love the fact you thought of this, and I love that the parents got so mad about it.  Really all that it's missing is somebody shitting their pants Yeah but it has potatoes. How many TIFUs have potato?  Potato?  I read the 'It's got everything' part in Stefan's voice &amp; imagined some glitzy, potato-laden gay bar  You'd rather risk your relationship than admit you were trying to be funny and failed?  

Looks like you succeeded. I'm guessing this is why he's only had 2 girlfriends to date. That's not so shabby. Most people only have one girlfriend to date. I haven't even had a girlfriend to date.  What the fuck is wrong with you? Well let me tell you "So first when the potato became on my plate, I acted very interesting." 

Reading it again the writing is hilarious. Guy is obviously Latvian, give him a break. It's terrible, made all the worse by the fact that I don't think OP is ESL, but just dumb. 

There's a trend in this sub to attempt to be very elaborate with prose, and it rarely works to the story's benefit.  The fact that the guy made no spelling errors, and only subtle grammar errors, makes me think this is a meticulous ESL. I honestly thought it worked to this story's benefit. That line /u/fortified_blanket quoted in particular was my favorite. It made me laugh and even swoon a little bit.  I thought I was the only one who noticed that. Well let me tell you, it got annoying quick.  LITERALLY WHAT IS GOING ON. I'm more embarassed about this than anything that has ever happened to me. this is the definition of second hand embarrassment. The germans have a word for this situation: fremdschmen. This is so utterly cringe-worthy, I feel bad for the gf (ex gf?) I'm cringing super hard right now...  Oh jesus, when /u/AUTISTIC_PENIS is asking you what the fuck's wrong with you, you *know* you fucked up but good. What I love about this post is that in my eyes, you completed your goal of being hilarious. 

Pretending not to know what a potato is isn't what's funny, what's funny is you played it as a character almost and made this huge awkward situation. You were so committed you made your girlfriends' parents turn into angry lunatics. 

The humor of the palpable tension and awkwardness (at least it sets me off) is already great, but think of the story you now have. You made a girlfriend's parents hate you within an hour of meeting you *because you acted like you didn't know what a potato is*. It's honestly hard to think of dumber, more innocuous things to elicit such a reaction. That's amazing. 

I feel like this is something Norm MacDonald would do and love.  It sounds like a Seinfeld episode.

"Her dad punched me in the face."

"He p..., what, why?."

"I pretended not to know what a potato is." Seinfeld popped into my mind too. Something George would do. I had to commit, Jerry! I had to! Something ONLY George would do! I can totally picture him on Conan's couch, telling this story. It's perfect if you go back and read it in his voice.

God I love Norm. Here's how I like to imagine it with Norm if he was telling the story:

*So he says, "Enough is enough. You're fucking with us. Admit it."*

*And I uh, heheh, and I respond "What? Noooooo. These things are crazy to me. It's a new frontier.... They're like, uh, ROCKS, and they sort of taste like really thick bread. I have NEVER...I've never heard of these things. Do they like, uh, come from a tree, or what's that story like?* 

*I remember growing up, heheh, and we didn't get crazy foods like these. In fact I can still... taste... all those TV dinners Mom used to buy. Yeahhh, the uh, salisbury steak, green beans, and mac and cheese. But uh, these things are delicious! I'd a hoped someone would have showed me them sooner. Y'know, heh, you should have me over more often, for these strange new things..."*

*SO, heheh, so he goesand I quote"Get the fuck out."*

That's how I hear it. You have to mentally supply him grinning like a fool the entire time though. Is it weird that I imagine scenarios like OP's story with Norm inserted into them and what he would say?  # It isn't Norm,  this is some Andy Kaufman type shit.  Kaufman is who I thought of too. OP might be a comedy genius. 

Kaufman story that OP's story reminds me of:

&gt;Kaufman would punish such audiences by reading the novel The Great Gatsby by F. Scott Fitzgerald to them. According to that version of events, the audience would laugh at this, not realizing that he was serious, and Kaufman would proceed to read the entire book to them, continuing despite most of the audience members' departure. In reality Kaufman was more jokey with his audiences: He would read a few pages, and then he would ask the audience if they wanted him to keep reading, or play a record. When the audience chose to hear the record, the record he cued up was a recording of him continuing to read The Great Gatsby from where he had left off.  Wow.....at least it shows you're not afraid of commitment? &gt;  That I never heard of a potato. I went with it and told them, yes, I did not ever even hear of a potato

&gt; not ever even hear of a potato

That would be the spot where I burst out laughing.

Never ever did you even hear of a potater, eh? I've never laughed so hard at a TIFU I cried laughing, why is this so hilarious Completely agree. I laughed for like two straight minutes. I was playing it in my head the whole time....so funny. Also good narrating.  Let me tell you bro Let me tell you dude Best Latvian joke ever. There iz no potato, only malnourish and cold dark suffer. In Latvia, man enter bar with three potato...

sorry bad joke, no one has potato in Latvia Just tell them you were baked at the time. They will then understand, and believe you, and all will be forgiven. Tell them you were more baked than a baked potato. A baked what?  You're confusing being an actor with being a comedian.  They are not the same.  Method acting and committing to a role is not being a comedian, unless you're doing a farce, then everyone has to be in on it Monty Python.

&gt;Well let me tell you I had to commit 100% at this point.

This is what separates the lunatics from the guys with girlfiend's parents that let them have sex in the house.

&gt;I wish I never started it but I can't go back. I think she will break up with me anyway.  

You picked those subtle clues up but not the growing potato based tension?

Commital to the bit: 10/10
Audience reaction: 0/10 Potato based tension is one of the more awkward of all the tensions. That was the name of my second techno band, right after Rottweiler Fart Theory.  I think he was going for leslie nielsen level deadpan acting/comedy and they just totally believed him. I really would personally blame it on the parents for being abrasive, but  he should have caved when they said you're fucking with us aren't you.  No, they didn't totally believe him. That's the point-  you cannot believe someone who says they don't know what a potato is. You absolutely completely know you are being fucked with. And on that basis the parents were right to chuck him out. He was being a dick of the first order. He had a few bail chances, but he just didn't hit the silk at any of those times.

But live and learn, who wants parents-in-law who react this badly to potato related issues? I'm going to try this the next time I'm invited to a dinner hosted by someone I don't know very well. 

What's taters? &gt; What's taters?
fat parentses what is taters mmm??
 "Haters gon' hate, taters gon' tate." They hate us because they ain't potatus. &gt;A 'potato', oh interesting. Never heard of a potato, looks pretty good. 

Aaand that's when you say that you're joking. And apologise for having no sense of humour. I cried and laughed so hard. Thank you for fucking up. I read it once and imagined some classical music playing softly in the background. So I put the best of Chopin on YouTube and read it out loud to my gf. It was as perfect as I imagined. Also, my gf said you could have said it "tasted like French fries" and really set them off. Yes. That would have been perfect! I gotta say, that's one of the dumbest things I've ever heard. Your only hope is to come clean. In fact, just link your gf to this post and tell her to show her parents. Oh, and also you should apologize profusely. Best advice I've read so far in this thread for OP. He's damned either way, but far better off owning up to it at this point. Better off having the family see you as a nervous kid who got caught up in a bad joke than the smartass and/or complete idiot they see you as now. At least sending this post shows your intentions. In the future though, just know that the first time meeting your GFs parents (or anytime after really) is not the time to be messing with them if you value your relationship. Also, if anyone ever calls you out on messing with them always own up to it otherwise you end up looking like a douche.... Anyways, good luck OP! You messed up my friend. Should have owned up to the joke quickly when you saw it wasn't working with a "nah I'm just messing with you guys". No, you have to say you're just joshin'. It's a prank, Mr. GF's dad.  Look, there's a camera right there! As the dad walks in on them having sex "it's a prank it's a prank! Look the cameras right there.... facing us. Not the door...." It would be amazing if we had footage of this dinner. Fucking masterpiece theater What most people miss with this story is the psychology of it. He was already nervous coming into meeting the parents of which underlying notion was that he was concerned about how to play himself and and maybe also keeping up a percieved facade and keeping a respected level with the parents. The extra stress of situation that he psyched himself up to begin and the position he was in - it all backfired.

It backfired because his unconscious strategy was to to be perceived as genuine and real. So when he tried to be funny and it didn't workout he went into panic mode cause he wanted it too much of it not this way to be turn out and this of at least staying true to being genuine was the only strategy he know he could hang on to as his brain froze and the situation spiraled into awkwardness.

The medicine on all this and the key for the future is confidence, knowing yourself, knowing who you are and not giving a fuck whether they will like you or not. This all comes with practice, age, time and of course TIFU's. [deleted] There it is. Finally. [tl;dr: OP is Gollum](http://www.troll.me/images2/smeagol-happy/whats-taters-precious-whats-taters-eh.jpg) Honestly, having Smeagol be their dinner guest would make this encounter slightly less awkward. PO-TA-TOES! Boil 'em, mash 'em, stick 'em in a stew! This kind of broken English is my absolute favourite. Makes the story much funnier. &gt; Finally the father said I should "Get the fuck out of his house" and I said it was irrational to treat me like this just because I never heard of a potato before.

I love this. LET ME TELL YOUUUUUUUUUUU Reeeaaally though? Because this happened on the TV show 'Cuckoo'. 

https://www.youtube.com/watch?x-yt-ts=1421914688&amp;x-yt-cl=84503534&amp;feature=player_detailpage&amp;v=qNQ9VN705As#t=8 It could be why he thought it would be funny. Should have told them you were from Latvia  No potato. Only sorrow. tl;dr well let me tell you... I can't tell if this is a TIFU or a Latvian dinner party I think you're autistic. The writing style makes me think this is fake.  I know a break-up sounds bad at the moment, but you may have the greatest break-up story ever. Just remember, Vice President Dan Quayle notoriously flubbed the spelling of potato in front of schoolchildren. You could do worse!

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Wdqbi66oNuI Plot twist: the gf's father was a potato farmer. Huh. I read this entire TIFU with an Irish accent. Given OPs grammar plus the potato subject matter, I immediately went with a Latvian accent.

The more I think about it, the more I'm convinced this would make an awesome Latvian joke with only minor editing. Is not of joke, is rokk.

 i did too, but only after the second "well let me tell you..."  Not much will set this right. If you admit now you were assing around, they'll think you're a dickhole. If you continue the ruse they'll think you're a dickhole. 

 Your ability to commit should bring her right back, dude. Send them a gift basket of potatoes, but actually fill it with yams. I am confused, what is a potato? I might understand the story after I find out. [Here](http://i.imgur.com/72MOrjQ.jpg) A potato is a particularly cheap, low resolution recording device. How could you not know that? I'm sorry, but this sounds like you tried really hard to think of the most ridiculous situation involving a random object. lol im so random!!1! xDD Don't anyone fucking do it. Hnnnnngh I'm gonna do it

It's coming

*It's coming* ...go on. Mmmmmmmmmmmmnnnnph Oh yeah...

*Ohhhh. Yeeeaaahhh...* /R/CIRCLEJERK [Well now you know](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Potato) #####&amp;#009;

######&amp;#009;

####&amp;#009;
 [**Potato**](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Potato): [](#sfw) 

---

&gt;The __potato__ is a [starchy](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Starch), [tuberous](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tuber) [crop](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Crop) from the [perennial](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Perennial_plant) [nightshade](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Solanaceae) *[Solanum](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Solanum) tuberosum* L. The word "potato" may refer either to the plant itself or the edible tuber. In the [Andes](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Andes), where the species is indigenous, there are some other closely related cultivated potato species. Potatoes were introduced outside the Andes region approximately four centuries ago,  and have since become an integral part of much of the world's food supply. It is the world's fourth-largest food crop, following [maize](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Maize), [wheat](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wheat), and [rice](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rice). 

&gt;====

&gt;[**Image**](https://i.imgur.com/tJHwJeN.jpg) [^(i)](https://commons.wikimedia.org/wiki/File:Patates.jpg)

---

^Interesting: [^Stobrawa ^\(potato)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Stobrawa_\(potato\)) ^| [^Mr. ^Potato ^Head](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mr._Potato_Head) ^| [^Mashed ^potato](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mashed_potato) ^| [^Russet ^Burbank ^potato](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Russet_Burbank_potato) 

^Parent ^commenter ^can [^toggle ^NSFW](/message/compose?to=autowikibot&amp;subject=AutoWikibot NSFW toggle&amp;message=%2Btoggle-nsfw+cny1pwm) ^or[](#or) [^delete](/message/compose?to=autowikibot&amp;subject=AutoWikibot Deletion&amp;message=%2Bdelete+cny1pwm)^. ^Will ^also ^delete ^on ^comment ^score ^of ^-1 ^or ^less. ^| [^(FAQs)](http://www.np.reddit.com/r/autowikibot/wiki/index) ^| [^Mods](http://www.np.reddit.com/r/autowikibot/comments/1x013o/for_moderators_switches_commands_and_css/) ^| [^Magic ^Words](http://www.np.reddit.com/r/autowikibot/comments/1ux484/ask_wikibot/) Thank you mr robot You need to commit 100% to this now. Invent a religion - perhaps an obscure offshoot of Roman Catholicism formed after the Irish potato famine- that eschews potatoes in all their forms.  Create a wikipedia page. Find a passage in the bible that supports it (literal interpretation of beasts of the field perhaps...maybe claim "beasts" is close to the olde Irish word for potatoes...you are going to have to get creative).  

Reveal all of this to the GFs family as though you just found out yourself.  Tell them you went home and asked your parents about it and they sat you down and told you that they were part of this religion and had raised you in observance of its tenets. You can then roll your eyes and act like your parents are the weirdest most embarrassing people on Earth for putting you in this situation.

oh and they told you french fries were made from bread because it was the one indulgence they allowed.

Never let your parents and her parents meet unless they have been briefed and can be trusted to dive on any grenades. &gt; Invent a religion, hahahaha You have a strange sense of humour, OP "Oh what a tangled web we weave..."

Gotta tell ya, Spanky, I've read a lot of mess-ups on this page but yours takes the cake.  You need to learn what humor is before you try it out first-time on your girlfriend's parents.  Some things are genuinely funny but insulting your [ex?] girlfriends parents isn't one of them.  The best thing you could do is to go over to her house and admit that you were "very aghast, nervous, and bashful to be invited to such a situation." and tried to get through it by using some impromptu humor which clearly backfired.  It's called telling the truth.  Give it a try.  If not, you've only got yourself to blame.

One other tidbit: when you've made someone so mad that they tell you to "Get the eff out of his house", don't try to challenge that person by telling them they're being irrational.  You were a guest.  No one hired you as the smart-arsed comedian for the night. I found the dad (or someone equally stupid)! Maybe you should take into account this is probably a nervous 16-18 year old, who just tried to make a joke. You know what I would say if someone asked me what a potato is? "A potato is a type of vegetable, and it is mainly starch. You usually eat a baked potato with butter and sour cream, try it", what I wouldn't say is "get the fuck out of my house". In fact, I would never tell someone who is probably under 18 and dating my daughter to "get the fuck out of my house" unless they did something more offensive than not know what a potato is. So before you climb any higher on your shitty moral high horse against OP, first take a second to realize what an immature asshole that dad is. I can't imaging being such an arrogant/stupid prick I have to spend more than two sentences trying figure out if someone is lying about knowing what a potato is. This could have been prevented by the adults acting like adults and not badgering a kid about whether he know what a potato is or not, to the point your screaming "fuck" at him. Oh no- if I were to run into someone who asked what a potato is, I would make them endure a droning and seemingly endless accounting of the potato famine in Ireland.  Not even going to discuss the thousands of years of cultivation in the Andes by the hardworking indigenous peoples? 

Let me tell you what son, potatoes are older European history, as old as the Pyramids of Egypt.  


Potatoes were the primary energy source of the Incan Empire, think about that as you enjoy this baked potato before you. An Empire which thrived at high altitude and developed a unique and fascinating culture.

Even today potatoes are a primary food source for the poor farmers of the Andean mountains. Nothing brings humanity together like a good potato. I feel pity for your tragic deprivation of the majestic potato and am honored I could be the first to share one with you. Oh God, this entire thread has me in stitches. Well done! The Andeans called it "maize". Nah dude you're thinking of broccoli. You see back in the day a potato was the live blood of my people, and then a disease swept the country killing the harvest. Our most holiest of crops destroyed by a plaque created by the British to drive us from our lands in search of food in America! Some people where lucky though as the Ottomans sent a few ships of food to help us, the Brits forced them to stop though because they couldn't have a foreign power let alone the Infidel sending more food and relief for out blight.

And that's why we tried to blow up Margaret Thatcher, we tried to get the Welsh in but they were to busy in a deep depression because the coal mines where shutting down, around this time Hitler tried to get us to rise up and kick the British of our land for good, we said fuck off because come on if they one we would have full blooded Germans on our door step, at least the Brits are only around 50% German they still have some Celtic blood in them makes them more reasonable and less likely to send us to camps.

Now the highlight of the war was when a downed pilot would land especially if they were a damned Brit because then we could send him to prison, now those Americans where real busy at the time as well, those Japanese people where crashing planes into them left right and center so they built a massive bomb to blow them away and make them surrender, while the Americans where fighting the Japanese the Russkies where busy sending wave after wave of people against the Germans and slowly winning.

And that my boy is what a potato is. Except OP is not telling the full story, he trolled them and they knew t, they gave him several outs and he didn't take em, so eventually he got his ass kicked out. &gt;  I decided to take a bite of the potato, and when I did I made a high pitched noise and said "Taste's very strange!"
&gt; That is when the father started yelling at me, and the mother kept saying "What are you doing?" and my girlfriend went to some other room.

So you show up, pretend you don't know what a very common (and frugal) food choice is, then say it tastes strange after refusing to admit you know what it is. Personally, I can see how someone might take offense over being screwed with to that extent. Even more so if they've got an insecurity about their wealth.

&gt; In fact, I would never tell someone who is probably under 18 and dating my daughter to "get the fuck out of my house" unless they did something more offensive than not know what a potato is.

You're forgetting the high pitched noise and "tastes very strange!". Under certain circumstances those are mocking, sarcastic, and elitist actions. Rich people don't eat potatoes?  I knew potatoes were a frugal choice, but I had no idea that was somehow tied to class. Due to their low cost it's entirely possible that lower income people have a higher percentage of their meals consisting of some form of potato than do families of higher incomes.  Sort of like steak vs. hamburger.  Having said that the number of different ways to prepare potatoes are almost endless and no doubt many of those ways are in elegant dinners. Possibly. Some people don't eat Tilapia because they consider it a garbage fish, could be something like that. Or catfish. I've known a couple people with stereotypes about catfish. Potatoes are very versatile and tasty but just happen to be inexpensive.  If people look down on someone else for eating a potato, then they have all sorts of issues.  "I only eat food BECAUSE it's expensive".  I didn't get that vibe at all from the OOP. I didn't get that vibe from the OP, but I could see how someone else might. Perhaps they're of Irish descent, and have history of people in their family line dying because the potato made up such a large portion of their diet. That's a historical example of potatoes being a poor food and those with money being able to say "I don't rely on eating potatoes to survive". It's a stretch, I know, but there are all sorts of reasons someone might get offended when a stranger pretends they've never heard of your simple and modest food choice, and if they suspect you're lying it can make the situation even worse because they will probably think up their own reasons for you lying. If that reason explains your behavior, they'll see everything you do in a different light.

I know I'm not the sort that's going to turn down Walmart brand food just because my family affords name brand or something, but there are some people out there with way different opinions. Right? Potatoes are delicious I would think everyone eats them.  Rich people love potatoes. It's not like they don't eat potatoes but can and sometimes do also eat very expensive stuff. An over the top example would be that a rich eprson eats taters while drinking champagne while the poor person eats them because they have to.  They eat gnocchi  &gt; mocking, sarcastic, and elitist actions.

This was exactly my thought as I read it and was surprised that people were confused by the dad's reaction. I can totally understand being offended by someone making such a show about what some might consider a non-fancy food. OP came across as a real jerk even though he's actually just retarded. So your right, but isn't it still an over reaction? I mean this person is a grown ass man, with a job, a wife, and kids. Shouldn't he have controlled himself a little better? Of course, but things tend to happen badly when both sides act irrationally. Both of them have reason to lose a little face if they're reacting or acting badly (even in the case of a bad joke), and it's irrational to let it spiral so far you don't take the time to calmly apologize and explain yourself. Or time to calmly explain why you're angry and ask the other person to discuss it with you. Yes.  He should have. Yeah. Maybe the dad should have had a little more control. But I mean at this point OP was looking like a really really weird and sarcastic asshole. I mean they KNOW he knows what a potato is. And the fact that he keeps insisting he doesn't would lead any normal person to believe OP either has a serious mental problem, or genuinely believes these parents are stupid enough to fall for his joke. They don't realize he just tried to make a dumb but simple joke and when it failed kept it up due to embarrassment. They're probably thinking this kid is trying to pull some lame elaborate prank on them, and then when they call him out, he keeps insisting, meaning to them OP must think they're idiots. I dunno about you, but if I had a young daughter who invited her new boyfriend over for our family dinner, and the whole time he kept insulting our intelligence by trying to pull some really strange and random prank, I'd be pretty pissed and annoyed. I wouldn't yell or cuss at the kid, but I'd sure as hell make him leave. So maybe the dad's reaction wasn't 100% appropriate, but not everyone is as calm as a monk, and OP was being straight up retarded. [deleted] This is a joke right  Holy shit, victim blaming? Wow, what a victim, someone pretended not to know what a potato was in his house! Someone call a wambulance, I think our victim is going into vagiadac arrest!

The dad is an asshole, I'm not backing down from this. When a fucking kid comes to your house it's your job to be the fucking adult, and act mature. I don't give a shit if the kid had never eaten food before, that dad is an asshole! Elitist

noun
1.
a person who believes that a system or society should be ruled or dominated by an elite.

adjective
1.
favoring, advocating, or restricted to an elite.


This was the only thing i had a problem with. Is there a better word to describe someone looking down upon other people based upon something like available income, or food choice, or so on? I thought snobbish, but sometimes that's just about money and culture, when this could also be something like a bias towards someone that doesn't consume meat when you're hardcore anti-vegan. Now if only OP was looking down on them for something such as income or food choice or so on. He let out a high pitch sound(volume unknown) and said a stupid line, elite this does not make. 

Good detective work sparky, I'm sure your services will be called upon in the future. I'm not describing what OP did, I'm describing how it might be perceived by someone else that doesn't know what sort of person OP is. Good reading comprehension, Chappy. What an immature asshole the DAD is?! No way. OP is the worse kind of clown, an unfunny one. Sure I give him a pass because he's young, but that sounds like a terribly annoying dinner. The parents made a gesture to get to know him, and give him a chance which a lot of parents wont even do in the first place, and this is how he spends the evening? I don't blame the Dad at all. If anything the one I feel bad for is the daughter.  Or maybe both parties are idiots.

Two people can be right and two people can be wrong. It isn't always one is right and the other is wrong. OP is the worse kind of clown, an unfunny one.

Such a simple yet profoundly true statement.  When your the adult in a household, screaming at a child to "get the fuck out" over a stupid unfunny joke is immature. That is not the way any adult should handle a situation. The dad overacted, and acted like a kid instead of an adult.  I feel like the dad sees OP as less of a "child", and more of an adolescent trying to bang his daughter. It's not like he's screaming at an 8 year old here. We're all assuming OP is 16-18 years old? Also, he gave him plenty of opportunities to come clean. This was just a fail. An imaginary fail.  This wasn't an unfunny joke.

This was dinner theater at gunpoint.  They made him food, and he acted like a shithead.

I would have told him to fuck off too. It became a question of honesty. When OP was asked to admit that he was fucking with them and didn't, it became clear for her dad that OP is not suitable for his daughter. 

Also, he wasn't "screaming" to gtfo, but - as OP reports - *said* it - which in my estimation is perfectly reasonable.  Yeah, because Mr. What's-a-Potato Head is clearly much more grown up. This (the post, not your comment) is literally the most retarded thing I've ever read. If someone acts like they don't know what a potato is, that could say multiple negative things about him. He could be on drugs, or maybe he's a pathological liar. If he's willing to lie to his GF for something this petty, imagine what else he's hiding behind their backs. Hell, maybe this whole post is fake, and we're all the Dad, being hive-mindedly trolled by OP. Did, I wish your comment was sooner/placed differently. That "Mr. What's A Potato Head" deserves more than two upvotes, it deserves like 2000.  Thanks, man. One might say that's the /u/BestOpinionEver. Actually OP pulled of a successful real life troll, and in the process turned an overly uptight father into the raging moron that gets angry about troll bait.  If the father is that uptight/serious then he needs a serious reality check himself.  Most normal people would have quickly understood the troll and responded appropriately by trolling back or ignoring it.  The father's response shows nothing but a lack of intelligence and an ease to overreact when he doesn't understand something.  Defending the trolls. You the real MVP. That the kid was nervous is crystal clear.  He spelled that out in spades.  That the father acted innappropriately by using the f-word is open to debate.  Having said that I too think it was completely un-called for.  My point was simply when the nervous 16 year old kid realized his attempt at humor wasn't working to the point of being offensive he should have fessed up and admitted his game.  When humor insults someone's intelligence it ceases to be humor. &gt; Maybe you should take into account this is probably a nervous 16-18 year old

OP is actually 34. OP's being a bit of a twerp, like one of those kids yelling "penis!" in public and thinking it's genuinely funny after the first few shouts. But yes, I agree with you, the Dad sounds like an idiot, and definitely more than the kid. He's lowered himself to OPs dumb level. If I was the dad, I'd be rolling with it and coming up with a way to throw something back at him. I'd hope my daughter was smart enough to work out he's an idiot and ditch him.  The dad didn't throw him out because he didn't know what a potato was, he threw him out because he lied, and very obviously as well, to his girlfriend's parents first time he met them. Over and over again, even when they let him know they knew he was lying he kept doing it. He's so obsessed with saving face that he'd rather lie than admit to be wrong. First of, that's a horrible message to send to both your girlfriend and her parents. Second of, he was acting really weird, with noone knowing why he was lying about something so trivial straight to their faces, the mother even asked what he was doing, obviously not knowing what was going on. They were completely baffled and confused and very obviously did not know that this was meant as a harmless joke - which was OP's mission in the end. Him not explaining what is going on made it possible for them to guess themselves. Maybe he's making a joke, but not a harmless one, maybe he finds it funny to make them feel awkward and uncomfortable. Maybe he doesn't care about their approval and is intentionally disrespectful. Maybe he doesn't care about their daughter. They have no way to know.

I agree though, the parents could've and really should've dropped it. Let it slip, especially since it was the first time and the boy probably isn't that old. But since it did go on for so long and he refused to back down, I understand if they concluded that they saw some pretty bad character trades and if they felt like he was being incredibly disrespectful.

I do think it's go to tell OP how he might've gotten a different outcome and where he fucked up, cause he doesn't seem to realize. No matter if it's the adults fault or not, he could've changed the situation. Some people just can't roll with a joke.  I would have found that funny actually.  Not so much in the "primary" sense, but the awkwardness and cringe it would induce. If I were that dad I would have made him stick to his bit by 1) pretending to believe him, 2) asking him further questions, and 3) never giving him an out.  Just really make him stew in that bomb of a joke for as long as possible and then at the end let him know I'm fucking with him in a way so that he won't realize I knew his bullshit until he tells the story to someone years down the line.  Now I hope I have a daughter or a gay son.

This whole thing seems like a scene from Louie on FX. This part is what makes it seem untrue.  I can see a kid being an idiot, but not that reaction from adults. I would think 16-18 year old high school students usually meet the parents when they pick the girl up for the first date.

I met every single father and mother of every girl I ever took out the first night I picked them up.  

I really don't think this person is all that young.  I'm guessing early 20s. I sort of hope he's like 43 Lol no. Dad is in the right.

He invites OP into his home in an attempt to get to know the man his daughter likes. Instead OP turned the whole thing into a giant joke and made a mockery of the entire dinner. 

If OP wanted to commit to the "joke" he could have just said, " I've never had this before, wow this is delicious Mrs. Gfs mom!". Then they could talk, and maybe OP could be like , "I was just joking about the potato thing". And then they could all laugh. 

Instead, OP not only said he didn't know what the food was, he said it tasted strange!!! That alone is insulting enough. You never insult someone's cooking, no matter how shitty it is. You eat it, and say its good. And if it's truly unbearable you take a couple bites and say you're full, but you never insult the hosts cooking.  Yeah, I'm with you on this. If one of my kids' annoying friends pulled something like this, I'd just raise my eyebrows and change the subject. They're just kids - they're still learning how to negotiate intimidating social situations. What kind of parent throws a tantrum, swears at them, and kicks them out over something like this?! That's worse than the kid's misplaced sense of humor. Jeez, suck it up, let the kid know that you know they're messing with you, and change the subject. Everyone will be relieved and you can move on.  It's that mans house. He can kick him out if he felt offended if he wanted. I've kicked people outta my house for less ( not really, but I have kicked out many). 

Op fkked up. And not everybody has the patience of the Dalai Lama to answer stupid questions and put up with disrespect. However unintentional it was.  The dad reacted rather rational, from a psychological point-of-view. Absolute ignorance that breaks a belief system, as well as utter ignorance can lead to rather stark reactions. I found it rather hilarious ;)  
  
The best, albeit mild examples are the responses in this very thread. Why is the OP in the wrong? It's obvious that the parents and the GF got way too offended when they realized they were being trolled. If it were my house, I'd have laughed my ass off. I too would have reacted way differently.  In fact, I would have felt sorry for the kid and explained to him what a potato is.  As I stated elsewhere when ones attempt at humor angers/hurts another it ceases to be humor.  Just my personal belief. &gt;  "very aghast, nervous, and bashful to be invited to such a situation."

NO!

you have to hold frame. at all costs.  Not sure I understand your comment but I suspect we disagree.  Good day. I could have sworn we left the word "spanky" in the last century and in the bedroom. I come from the last century.  As for the bedroom, well, the word/name has more than one meaning. Damned time travelers. :-)  Yeah.  It's just something we do. He should throw a potato through their window with a note saying:

"Now I won't ask you before I fuck your daughter!"


I mean, if you've gone that far you might as well go full dominance. wow rude I consider it not being impressed by this young man's lack of ability to admit he offended his girlfiend's father (and possibly her mother as well) by continuing his ruse.  Once the young man saw that he angered/offended his girlfriend's father, albeit unwittingly he was indeed rude.  Once again I will say that I believe the girlfriend's father acted altogether innapropriately. Her parents are just assholes with no sense of humor. They owe him an apology. &gt;No one hired you as the smart-arsed comedian for the night.

Reddit did. Perhaps but Reddit wasn't the host of the dinner invitation. He didn't insult anyone though. Hmmm.  What would you call it then?  Whatever you call it it certainly infuriated the father.  Not that the father's response was appropriate. He was inappropriate and deliberated triggered his anger by doing innoccuos things, but this isn't the same as insulting. I see it differently, obviously.  My guess is that this kid is not an Oscar-quality actor and his attempts at pulling this off were obviously not the best.  While it's not completely impossible that this kid had never had or seen a potato it's awfully hard to imagine as potatoes are one of the cheapest food staples out there and they're used in myriad recipes.  I just think that this young man could have tried many other ways to hide his nervousness, that's all.  My guess is most of his other choices wouldn't have provoked the father in the way it did.  And, as stated elsewhere I completely disagree with the father's response to the young man's attempt at humor. &gt; Whatever you call it it certainly infuriated the father

You call it insecurity this guy knows whats up. Listen to the man, OP. Thank You. You. Yeah.  Me. Confirmed: this is the dad.  Are you the next George Castanza?  &gt;[implying](http://i2.kym-cdn.com/entries/icons/original/000/005/498/1300044776986.jpg) You totally baked him... He was probably baked himself. Now OP will just have to jacket. Oh man, OP can't even count to potato! I don't give a shit if this is fake, I love it. I love the notion that people would get angry at you for "not knowing" what a potato is, lol. I would have thought the parents' reactiom was a little implausible if not for the number of people in this thread who are angry about OP's potato joke. This is the most autistic post I have ever read.  This is like a story you only read in green text that opens with &gt;Be me. You literally just had to say, "sorry that was a bad joke" at the very beginning. You would be having sex right now I don't care this isn't real, this is the funniest shit.
 When I was in high school I committed to doing a Mexican accent for a day. The teachers started to get really mad. I told them I couldn't stop because I had been doing it to long and couldn't change my voice to normal. None of the teachers believed me but some of the kids did. I really wanna know what type of accent it was... Mexican? What is a "mexican"? It was a Mexican accent 
 Yes. But like what specifically? Cholo (eyy Holmes, you takin to my hyna es?) or like Pedro from that movie where he's running for school prez. Or like super stereotypical like the lemon pledge lady. I want specifics.  It was cholo. I had a Mexican friend who didn't actually have much of an accent but I liked to jokingly do the accent around him. Thank you man haha. I asked cuz my white friends in the service used to do the same shit to me everyday at work. It got bad enough to where I'd start speaking like that everyday and people that I barely knew thought I spoke like that lol Teacher: "OK guys, today we're going to write an essay about -"

You (interrupting): "An ese? I got friends I call eses but I aint never heard about writing one homes." I'm pretty sure this is bullshit but it's hilarious bullshit. Well done.  Too many people are treating this as fact. It is awesomely funnier that they think so though.  This is a story that I just cannot see some asshole theorizing for internet attention.

This happens to me at work all the time. I try to mediate the awkwardness when someone doesn't catch sarcasm by just walking away from the joke. Some few people push it though.

A young nervous kid would do exactly this when being pushed.  That's odd, as almost this exact same thing happened in the UK television series [Cuckoo](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vdPNbHlFHr0&amp;t=1m32s) (01:34 in video) That's odd, I seem to have seen this comment like 4 more times.

But I don't mind. I'll get around to watching it eventually. Ugh. I wanted to believe this was real. I truly did. 

You just couldn't let us have this one, could you? You and your ... reality.  Could be where OP got the idea from and the reason why he thought it would be funny.  Jacket potato. Hmmm. What is it? A chilly potato on an autumn day? Blocked here. Geeze man, the first step to telling a joke is to be confident.

You panicked, never panic when telling a joke, never panic when meeting parents either. They can smell your fear. No, as a professional class clown the last thing you should have in your mind is being confident. If you fall, roll. You totally could have gotten out of this with some quick thinking.

"Potato... potato... ohhhh, you mean potAHto." You went full patoto. Most gas stations sell laser pointers. You might have been able to use the laser pointer to get her to step on the unlock button. Hmm, I will file this tidbit away for next time.  Surely you're not stupid enough to do it again.. Don't underestimate the stupidity of OP And don't call him Shirley.  Thank you. You're welcome Shirley. DAMMIT! Your username makes me really want grilled cheese and tomato soup.. &gt;French Onion Soup

Is a toasted soup ;) You can't be serious. At least he isn't stupid enough to confuse "your" and "you're". It happened to me and I went into the gas station, bought some beef jerky, and waved it around the window until he stepped on it again.  Why would you want him to step on the lock button again?  Now is even MORE locked!  or just buy a magnet box to stick under the bumper with a key inside for next time.  Thank you Captain Hindsight.  I have a real estate lock, the kind that go around door knobs, attached to my frame.  It has just the door key in it. Even if someone finds the keybox and breaks it open all they can do is open the door. Chances are though if they are willing to do that, they are also willing to break my windows because it's less effort.  Just make sure not to attach it to your keys beforehand.  You know, I would have never thought of that. Whenever someone comes up with an absolutely creative solution to something that I would have never thought of, it makes me marvel at how differently people think in general.

I'm a big, dumb animal, so my solution to this would have been brute force and probably involved hammers. Yours is quite elegant. This revelation occurred to me the other day. I have a window that can't roll up due to a faulty motor, and so I have it placed atop a piece of cardboard to keep it held up. I locked my keys in my car the other day and after panicking for a moment, I realized that I could pull that window down with a bit of force. I am so surprised at myself for thinking of that, as I am usually not a clever person. 

Not sure why I shared that, but know that you will also have a creative moment like that.  You seem so joyfull about your creative/clever moment, somehow it really makes me happy That's how I was planning to get a cat down from my tree that had been up there for 10 hours before the neighbour came out and just sprayed it down with the hose. shit, that's funny I've done this with wasp nests up in the eaves.  Apparently rain doesn't make them angry, just homeless. My dog would be too dumb for this. 

Edit: spelling- cellular, sorry ass hat.  Is a fortgis like a corgi? Commenter is too dumb for this. *fortgis Is that like a corgi? Easily the best advice I've seen on reddit all day r/LifeProTips not all dogs are interested in laser pointers. i tried on my ex's dog, he had no interest Well if it doesn't work then you have a laser for all types of activities. That's a win win in my book.  Like pointing at airplanes. My pug did the same thing to me. It was late and I was freezing. I broke the mini rear passenger window thinking it would be cheaper since the size of the glass was a tiny triangle. Yep, cost more to replace. 
 As someone who replaces automotive glass for a living, I've had multiple people come in saying they broke their quarter glass to get in to their vehicle because they thought it'd be cheapest and easiest to replace.

Nope. Shit's expensive. And on some vehicles is an absolute bitch to replace, especially compared to window glass. Which is (usually) pretty simple. Aren't windshields normally the cheapest to replace? A lot of the time that is the case, yes. I assume it's mostly to do with supply and demand, seeing as the windshield is the most likely piece of glass to be replaced.

Glass pricing is fucking dumb. For example, sometimes when a vehicle has a heated windshield option, the heated windshield is cheaper than the same windshield without the heating elements. At work we regularly joke about the warehouses using dart boards to determine pricing. So can you put in a heated windshield in a car that didn't have one?  Honestly, I've never really considered it. 99% of the work I do is insurance work, and they always want us to put the exact same windshield in to the vehicle that was in it before. Same features, same tint, same everything. And seeing as the customer is just paying their deductible anyway, a more expensive windshield is more beneficial for me, because it means I get to charge the insurance company more due to the cost being higher.


But yes, I absolutely could. The heat wouldn't work though, due to there being nothing to plug the harness that powers the element on the glass in to. I **might** be able to jury rig something together that would power the heat, but I'd only ever attempt something like that on my personal beater. Sounds interesting! My current insurance doesn't cover glass damage, and I got a little chip in my windshield already, so I'm getting a little nervous about this kind of stuff now, haha 

(a quote for a new windshield here was almost a  thousand bucks btw, ewww)  Where do you live? In my province all insurance comes with glass coverage. 

Also, if the damage to your windshield is just a chip right now I highly recommend you go get it repaired before the crack spreads to the edge. A repair is a hell of a lot cheaper than a replacement. I'm in New Zealand, my insurance is third party only. 

Yeah, I need to get some other things fixed as well, I'll just see to it all on my next day off Ahhh, I've spoken to some technicians from provinces and countries that only have third party insurance. Honestly, it really makes me appreciate the system we have here. Anyway, good luck with your vehicle! Ouch. Sorry about your luck!  I figured your car was going to be stolen. Guess you're lucky, really. He's locky That's the key to being OP.  I was thinking blow up...somehow. I guess I have an active imagination. I keep a spare door key in my wallet.  I've had to use it way too many times  Not a bad idea. Even if it is a chip key,  you can usually get one without the rubber head on it for just a few dollars.  Yeah at first I was thinking it wouldn't fit, but then I realized they all have actual keys inside in case the battery dies.  I also keep a spare house key there,  but only the bottom lock.  Since I always lock the top lock from outside the apartment,  I'll find out real quick if I left my keys inside.   The logic of this is brilliant.  I do the same thing, it's really nice thinking you've fucked up then,...nope got this bad boy It never fails me that I get a new car, lock myself out, then put a spare in my wallet that never gets used.    
I guess it works. In a way.. Oh, man...this reminds me of the time my cat locked my husband and me out of the house one evening. We were on our back patio, and he didn't appreciate not being invited.  Upon trying to open the back door on his own, he slapped the lock instead.  Unless that was always his true intention..... I think it's pretty clear that he meant to do it.  Is your husband Fred Flintstone and is your cat a sabertoothed tiger? Here's the culprit:

http://imgur.com/gIVdKUh

Update: 

We were saved not too much later.

http://imgur.com/Y8CM29n That little fucker knows what he did

EDIT: Female dog. That little bitch.  "That'll teach OP not to leave me behind" "Yeah, he thinks he can lock me outside to shit, huh? How do you like it now? It's not nice, is it? Yeah... Now it's you learning the lesson."

*"I'm in my owners car. Brum-Fucking-Brum"* [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] pst he pblst said ... PLBPL [deleted] [deleted] I still don't know how to do that. I saw that one thread where they KEPT doing it. Like HULK.

Can you teach? ##### Whenever you're in doubt click the "source" button. *tries to think of a place I'd be comfy leaving my keys in the ignition*

oh that's right - nowhere. I did it today with my girlfriend in the car. I have been known to leave my car running in the driveway in the winter to let it heat up. Is it  wise? No.  Who gives a fuck about wise when it's 4 degrees outside? Westie? Yep.  Gotta love the DGAF look on its face. Lol the little shit is like "come on pop let's go!"  http://i.imgur.com/TCoSq4K.jpg "Hmm, I didn't think about this part. If only I had opposable thumbs..." That thing got a Hemi? As a matter of fact it does.  Mm she sure is purty. OP delivers Hemi? Cummins is where it's at. Hemi. 

I sold my Duramax because I work an office job and I have a small boat. I don't need a diesel but I agree the Cummins are sweet.  Dodge makes it. Cummins shakes it. Hemis are sweet too. Probably more practical for most people You, sir, have one of the best TIFUs I've seen. It's quick and to the point, involves neither farts nor poo nor sexual innuendo. And you back it up with a picture without being asked. 

To the front page with you! 

Edit: [This picture! He didn't post it in the OP, it's the top comment below mine](http://www.imgur.com/gIVdKUh) I had some time to plan it out.  You should thank that dog for all the karma you're going to get.  Too bad it's a self post. Comment karma though, the best kind of karma. Here, have some of the best kind of karma! Wait, can you explain? Self posts, posts w/out links or pictures and just text, don't go towards your link karma because its not a link. The comments in the thread go towards a person's respective comment karma.

 Source: Reddit FAQ Text posts don't add to your link karma. It just... disappears... The dog knew he had it coming well obviously not, your dog locked you out of your car This is one of the reasons if you leave your keys in the car you should crack your window just enough that you can either reach in or poke the unlock with a stick. I was totally expecting you to come out and the truck not be there anymore.  Finally an OP who didn't shit his pants today. It was a good day. Definitely refreshing, especially since that guy made up having sex with 3 of his coworkers.  That story was fake? But...but...I masturbated to it... The Reddit Detectives cracked the case, unfortunately.  Link?  Thanks goodness. I knew I wasn't the only one believing less and less of it as I read the story.

I went back to check on the post to see if OP was exposed or not, but seems like the story sort of derailed after more and more people started calling bullshit. As you scroll down the comments, they go from people saying that he went through quite an ordeal to people unanimously calling bullshit.

Here's a [link](http://www.reddit.com/r/tifu/comments/2qliev/tifupdate_letting_the_corporate_holiday_party/) to the thread. still got more gold than I will ever receive :( Way too lazy for that That's the spirit. As a writer of fantasy erotica, I object to the implication that it is wrong to masturbate to fake stories. I didn't see how it was debunked, but I read that and thought it was bullshit immediately. Not because he had sex with the women at once (lots of freaky things happen every day), but he was WAY too calm and lighthearted about the whole ordeal and the inclusion of the ber conservative religious woman was just over the top

I can't believe people actually believed that bullshit We wanted to believe it was real  A couple people pointed out that they probably weren't ovulating during that foursome, he didn't cut directly in either of the girls as evidence that impregnation both was super unlikely. Also that they both found out they were pregnant less than two weeks later, meaning their period must have been only a couple days late (and who would check after a couple of days when cycles can fluctuate?). I panic if mine is late and I haven't had sex in months. "What if I'm carrying the next Jesus?" Hang on, the dog could still shit in the truck while he's waiting. I don't know. TIFU By Fingerings my wife was a lot more direct.

TIFU by fingering my wife.

I was eating jalapeo kettle chips, then my wife walked in....

Still makes me chuckle. &gt; involves neither farts nor poo nor sexual innuendo

seriously, thank jesbuz for this. Based off of 90% of top posts this place should be called /r/WeirdStoriesInvolingPoopPissSexAndFamilyMembers TIFU should ban submissions over 200 words I did the same thing a few years ago except I was in line at the car wash.  Got out to hand money to the attendant.

Dog locked the car, blocked the car wash entrance for 30 minutes.

:( Oh man, I did that once but she didn't lock me out. She rolled down the window! Someone held the door for her and she came into the convenience store and met me at the coffee machine. Dude behind the counter wasn't happy, but everyone else thought it was funny and wanted to pet her.  Haha, that would be surprising for sure.  Starring you down after she did it, alpha as fuck. Btw, if you lock your keys in a running vehicle, call the fire dept, they will unlock your vehicle, sirens blazing, for free, (fire hazard is the reason)  
i know because I've done it! (US only? maybe) Unlock it with the handle side of an axe?  I would say only some fire departments will do this, as will some police departments. Every police department I dispatch for will, the fire departments will not. However, in the next county over their officers will not, they refer you to a locksmith. 

It's worth a shot to call the nonemergency number, if you can avoid 911 please do but if that's all you can do then go for it!  Most departments here will laugh at you if you call asking to get into your vehicle. They have more important things to do than help someone who locked themselves out , and if it is an incident where there is a dog or child etc in the car, they will just break the window out. 

There is a department who will do lock out calls that I know of, they get at least 5 to 10 a day. I had to sit in the station and listen to lockout call after lockout call.

My advice, and is something that I do, when it is cold out I leave a key in the ignition with the car running, and I keep my set of keys chained to my pants / belt. The next town over from me is middle class white suburban with it's own police force. There's next to no crime. I know a few people including my own mother who have locked their keys in their car and the cops opened it up for them for free.

My town however is served by the county police dept. It's a big area with good and shitty parts. They have no time for your insignificant shit. We get several here daily. I dispatch for 3 city police departments and 1 county sheriff's office, the SO will not, the PDs will. As far as I know we have some of the last agencies around that do it. Lol no, they have the same tools a locksmith uses to spread open the door wide enough to get a hook around the lock, free and you walk away with a still whole car Only some will do this, but your car running is not a fire hazard. /r/animalsbeingjerks would love this  But what if his dog was locking the door to prevent someone from stealing his truck?

/r/animalsbeingbros How long did you spend trying to lure the pup back to the window hoping that paw would stand on the unlock button?  Ask me how I know. About 20 minutes. The time it took for my brother in law to get there. 

She was really confused and just started barking at me through the window.  That's not very nice of your brother in law to start barking at you. Our dog has locked us out twice.  If it is running, can you get the dog to step on the window down button? I tried for a while with no results. I've since been rescued though.  Short and to the point. 10/10. Would read again. That's good, the amount of scenarios that played through my head before reading the description..

Stolen truck..

Truck set on fire (filling vehicle with engine on)

Truck raided by squirrels..

You're lucky, man. Those squirrels could've gotten to your truck On the plus side, you won't run out of gas if he takes a while with the key. Many new cars in Europe turn their engine off automatically at stoplights. In Sweden we have a law that forces you to turn the engine off after 1 minute idling.  
That being the normal thing for me makes the concept of leaving your car running without you in it very alien.

If I did that I'd probably feel like a kid secretly eating candy on a thursday. It's awesome to me that my stupid mistake here in Small Town, CA has reached someone across the world. 

And no candy on Thursdays? You can have your free education.  Dog locks man. Dog locks?  Dog locks.  you don't just answer to your own question I was expecting a stolen car story. Glad it was something easily and quickly resolved.  so the truck is still running? Yeah, it was running with a full tank, thankfully.  Tank fully Take your damn upvote Why would anyone in their right mind leave their car while it's running and unlocked? It's just begging to be stolen. I like to live dangerously.  That's fair. &gt;It's just begging to be stolen.

I'm aware, I drive a 1995 Neon. So his dog wont be cold! Sure it's been said but thank you for getting quick to the point and not writing a novel about the month leading up to this happening When I worked for a towing company this, and unfortunately, little kids, locking the doors, was a weekly thing.  
E:stupid cell typo I thought you were gonna say that your truck rolled into a gas pump. Someone just did that a couple weeks ago and my work. He "accidentally " left it in reverse and got out his car. Completely bent the  pump, had gas spraying everywhere and nearly hit some state troopers in the parking lot.  Oh man. Fortunately that isn't what happened.  OMG i think i know what city/gas station this is at. I was working at the subway across the street and we were laughing at the situation. Was this at a Chevron with a arco at an other corner and a subway diagonal from the Chevron? I hate how my truck has a keypad on the outside to unlock the doors but as long as the keys are in the ignition you can not lock the doors. I would like to be able to leave the truck running and lock the doors while i went into a store. Yeah that seems like it would be one of the benefits to having that keypad.  What year Ford? I know I can lock and unlock mine with the keypad while its running. I have a 12.  Once my dog stepped on the window up button while we were driving down the street and rolled his goofy head up in the window. He started screaming and I almost wrecked. It scared the hell out of us both. Now I use the window lock when he's with me. So what did you do to piss off your dog? cool story broeth: Response story;

Went to target for some things, brought my pretty cool cat along for a ride. Left the car running, windows up, ac on, keyfob in hand so I could leave door locked.
Purchase made, return to car. Someone who is meeting me there to make an exchange arrives, and I am glibly talking to them while returning the keyfob to keys, in ignition, still running. I step out to continue conversing, and hit the door lock button, and shut the effing door.
Car is running, ac is on, cat is a-okay. 
Friend left to get spare key an hour+ away. 
Meanwhile, I try coaxing the cat to step on the door lock with her paw. Back and forth from passenger to driver side, she'd get close, but no win.
Then I think i see the rear passenger window cracked a bit, and am thinking about how I could maybe fit a hanger in there and get the door unlocked. As I walk around to the passenger side, to investigate closer, *Bewwwwwwwww* down goes the passenger window, because the cat finally stepped on a helpful button. 

I call off the cavalry, opened the door, took the keys so I could not repeat this error. Gave cat many loves and treats. 
Drive home victorious and stunned. My friend did this years ago...the cashier looked out and exclaimed ' therrrr go yo truck! '. And off it went.  On the bright side, at least I wasn't there to jump in and steal it. Hopefully your brother in law didn't laugh too hard. I'm his supervisor, so I threatened
his job, obviously. 

Just kidding, he was a good sport. 
 Yeah when pets are involved you should always have a spare key on you &gt;.&lt; Did you try to antagonize your dog into stepping on it again? This should be the first plan off attack. 2nd is bend your antenna and don't call someone else to unlock your truck if you have a tool for it attached to the front. I thought you blew up the station somehow.   
Disappointed.  Was I the only one expecting 6000 characters? Thumbs up for you buddy :P Lassie would've opened it for you. Keep a spare key hidden in a magnetic key box somewhere under the car. That is why you NEVER leave your vehicle running when you are not in it.  A worse case would have been that someone jumped into your truck and driven off with your dog. A worse case: His dog jumps into the driver seat floor, accidently pushes it out of park and into drive, steps on the petal and drives it into a gas pump. Gas spills everywhere, a fire is started, car explodes with dog in it, gas station roof collapses on other gas patrons resulting in canine vehicular manslaughter. Meanwhile, OP is caught in the blast and roof collapse but lived, but his eyes have been burned and his vision lost and the roof rubble crushed his legs.    


Also it started raining.     

Always take your keys with you or you might never walk or see again. Also your dog could do hard time while also not being able to walk or see.  its happened down the block from me quite sad. owner never got his dog back. At least this didn't happen in the *dog* days of summer. Right? Get it?

Really though that would be super unsafe for the dog. If it was that hot, the air conditioning would probably be on with the truck running. Good point. Pun withdrawn.  Can we get more like this? At least it didn't get stolen. 
http://www.reddit.com/r/tifu/comments/24453q/tifu_by_leaving_my_jeep_running_keys_in_and/ Dog has been playing GTA too much but forget it doesn't know how to drive. At least she didn't drive it through the front of the store like this guy at my local BP's dog did.  Upvote for not needing a tl:dr "Fuck you, human!" I will never understand why people leave their cars running when they stop in a store/gas station/etc.   This will likely get lost in the sea of responses, but I had this happen to me the day I took my dog into the vet to get him fixed. Took pictures of it, too, but I never thought to post it on reddit. Oh well. So how did you get the name Motherfucka jones? TIFU by leaving my dog inside the car while I ran into the gas station Once we left our dog in the car with the windows cracked. He somehow stepped on the window button and rolled it up onto his neck. Luckily this happened as we were walking to the car, though, and we saw it so he wasn't stuck for too long. He pissed everywhere because he was so scared.  Why are people still leaving their trucks and cars on why they run into the store? The engine will not cool significantly.   (Serious) crooks love when you leave the car running I always carry a spare key on me. I locked myself out of my running car once and I said well this will never happen again.  I have this constant fear this will someday happen to me! I always push the 'unlock' button twice to unlock my back doors. If my dog somehow manages to hit the lock button, I would have the back doors as plan B. That is if he didn't push the button twice. I keep a spare key in my wallet. Here is a life pro tip.  When you leave your car running, leave the drivers side window down half way, or some window open half way.  That way in case the doors get locked you can stick your arm in and unlock them.  I do this all the time.  Never had any problems since. "Always keep a spare key in your wallet" -me. You should be glad your dog didn't step on the gas. Then you would have REALLY FU.  Worse happened to me. My headlight was out and my dad said to start my car so when we take it out we can put the new one in and make sure it works. Well I got in, started my car, got out, closed the door and when I went to turn it off... "Dad it locked me out" leave a window down! That was the day I learned how to get into my own car with a screwdriver and a coat hanger. Never leave your vehicle running unattended. 

People like you get your car moved to the other side of the building. (I don't steal) ;) Last winter my boyfriend stopped at a 7-Eleven after having spent a long night at a house party. He left his SUV running to warm up but locked the doors "in case someone tried stealing it". 
Needless to say I DID NOT pick him up. Luckily he has AAA.  This is why when I leave my dog in the car with the AC/Heat on I always leave a crack in the window large enough for me to unlock the vehicle if I need to. At least she didn't hit the gas afterwards while clambering about in your cab. I lived in Wyoming.  At 6 a.m. one cold morning a guy left his truck running outside a store and some teenagers stole it.
Cops found them out on a highway and started chasing but, very shortly the chase was called off as the I.D. of the teenagers had been found out.  The call was to let them go and they would pick them up later.
The kids kept going and missed a curve, they going 100 mph.  All died.

Parents reaction "The cops shouldn't of been chasing them." This is why I return to TIFU. Thank you OP for not shitting on your dog during sex or worse. Needs a TLDR Is this one of the greatest upvote-to-character ratio posts ever? I remeber this happened to my dad and his truck when we went camping, so we couldn't get a spare key. Luckily we got the dog to step on the unlock again Most cars don't need to be running in order to use power locks. "TIFU by leaving my dog in the car" Not what I was expecting  I truly expected your truck being driven away by your dog. 2/10. Dog with rice 8/10. Korean cuisine FTW.  I thought it was gonna be that the dog knocked it into gear... I think Madge got you with the long con, bro. Yeah, that was probably Madge's sister, Midge.

Edit: My first gold! Thank you! Blue hair, missing finger, yellow skin? My daughter's name is Morge! ["No, my son is *also* named Bort."](http://thingiverse-production.s3.amazonaws.com/renders/9d/02/57/46/63/Bort_1_and_2_preview_featured.jpg) Madge was hiding in different bushes with her black clothes then as she saw you take the bait she turned and slowly walked away as Ocean's 11 -esque music played in the background With the flag And your girlfirend.  All while framing you for academic dishonesty. My thoughts exactly. He walked right into that one. Madge actually hacked into the schools computer network (into the mainframe of course, by bypassing the firewall encryption) and set up this girl's schedule *specifically* for this moment. --or better yet, after the ordeal, as OP runs from the innocent girl, you hear a quiet but sinister chuckle from that girl, still laying on the ground. face emotionless except a subtle smirk curling from her lips.

BAM! she rips off a mask to reveal her true identity as Madge. DUN DUN DUUUUUUUUUUUUUN! The more I hear about her, the more I like her. She's like a 21st-century Wednesday Addams. &gt;he ran right into that one

FTFY What is ftfy

This made quite a large thread I'm surprised. Also fuck this fuck you. "fuck this, fuck you"

Not sure why people are upvoting that rudeness. I can vote how I want FTFY He meant FTFY FTFY FTFY.  You know, tree ftfy. God damn Loch Ness monster! Fucking Madge...also, how did OP come up with Madge? What kind of a name is that. My thoughts when reading:

&gt;let's call her Madge.

Oh this aughta be good. Standing over the night class girl, I should have stared up at the sky, fists clenched, and screamed "ARE YOU HAPPY MADGE?!?! I HAVE NOTHING LEFT!! NOTHING!!!" as she watched from the top of a neighbouring parkade, and with a smirk, flicked her cigarette and disappeared into the night.  I'm pretty sure Madge and this guy will end up married. agreed, Madge sounds more than capable of using a decoy. she's a predator posing as a sheep.
 Yeah OP, what are you an amateur? She was obviously wearing a mask, a la Mission Impossible.

You got totally bamboozled friendo She was a plant. Madge was prepared from the jump I was on the edge of my seat when you said she fell! I thought you were going to say that she ended up breaking her neck or something and was paralyzed. It was quite a relief when you said she rolled over. Good read, good read.  Right, especially at the "made no attempt to get back up" part. I totally thought it was ending in paralysis.  Especially since the title says "ruining a girls life".....Thought she could never walk again Yeah the part where she didn't get up,  I really thought she was paralyzed.


 Ya especially because of the title...I didn't think she was going to walk again. I really thought she was paralyzed when I saw she didn't get up.  I don't know about you guys, but based on the title and the way the story was going, I really thought this girl was paralyzed and was never going to walk again. I have no idea if any of you had the same thought, but I figured she would be paralyzed or something after she didn't attempt to get up. Right? As I was reading it I was thinking "Oh shit, I bet she ends up paralyzed," and I kept thinking about how the title had stated he had ruined her life.  
Edit: Gold virginity officially gone! when girl not get up me say inside head "paralyze?" It was a definite possibility in my mind that the girl that OP chased would have lost motor function from the neck down. So relieved. I definitely thought she had a paralyzing back injury based off the title... Floating a trial balloon here, but I actually suspected she might be paralyzed because of that title. The title tricked me into thinking it would end in paralysis, but no it was a misdirection and it was the wrong girl instead. Written by M. Night Shamalama-ding-dong. What a twist! When OP said *And then it hit me. I did not recognize this girl. This was not Madge.*, I was actually anticipating the explanation to be that Madge received a horrific disfiguring facial injury and therefore became unrecognizable. Whoops. When he said it wasn't Madge, I honestly thought "Oh boy, here it is, this is where he realizes it was a broke 50 ft crustacean from the Paleolithic Era..." You ain't takin my tree fiddy Why's he coming back I gave him tree fiddy last week I thought the same thing! OP is in love ;) with Madge....haha Madge is the Grainger to OP's Weasley. [deleted] Yes I much prefer that an innocent girl broke her neck. What a boring story! TL;DR - Failed at CTF when things got rapey. The best thing about this tl;dr is the accuracy. The precision could use some work, though... Would be scary if it read 

&gt;Succeeded at CTF when things got rapey OP and Madge seem to have some sexual tension between them.  I agree, OP is clearly in love and wants to "tag" her brains "out". Tag her right in the pussy Ew Heterosexual sex, yuck. [Potato quality but Relevent](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=G7no-6olfEU) Sex.  It's like a rom-com! They hate each other, but they don't *really* hate each other.

Also, your username is funny.  This could be the wacky misunderstanding that threatens their love! She thinks he's a rapist, but turns out he isn't... He's actually [a stapler!](http://i.imgur.com/YCEKqF6.gif) There's a manga about this. Sort of. It's called Molester Man. A man gets mistaken as a molester and ends up falling for the "victim". It's way better than you might think based on the name and premise, and it's based on a real life story on a series of 2ch threads (similar daily threads as denko guy had). I really can't recommend that manga enough.  That's something you'd buy online. I don't know how I'd feel asking at my local store if they have 'Molester Man' in stock.  And I definitely don't want it in my Amazon purchase history Yeah, thats a back alley purchase for sure.  Whoa whoa whoa I don't want seedy dealers in my area thinking I'm a pedophile.  "...and do you have a copy of 'Date Rape Danny' as well? I had a subscription, but the mail lady has disappeared." They hate each other, but they fuck each other! Brb, gotta write slash fan fiction. Yes! Co-sign. So hard.

Source: Had a guy like this in my linear algebra class. Against my wishes we end up in a study group together. By the first exam we are hate banging. Got an A in linear algebra. (Possibly unrelated fact.) I kinda sorta hate-fucked this girl a few years ago. We ended up fucking a few times a week, stopped for a few months, started up again, fell in love, moved in together, spent the summer fucking and being with each other, fought over our emotional issues, broke up and we now share custody of our mutual group of friends and Mad Men.  I never saw Algebra-sex guy once the class was over. I think he failed.

There was no love to be had. Definitely for the best. You absorbed all the algebraic knowledge out of him. Like a sexy-brain-mosquito. I'm sorry, maybe there's something very wrong with my love life, but what is hate banging? Does that mean having sex with someone...because you hate them? That's all kinds of messed up. I've never been accused of having the healthiest sex habits.

But we pretty much had zero in common and didn't like each other except for sex. When we talked, we argued &amp; then argued some more. But the sex was easily top 3.

He wasn't my boyfriend, not even a friend with benefits because we weren't friends. So a booty call I'd never want to hold a conversation with? Enemies with benefits How does that kind of stuff even start though?

Like, I get having sex with people you aren't even friends with. But to me, the way that'd happen is like.. You go on a blind date, your personalities don't match but you both still wanna fuck so there you go. But just by being in a study group? Does he just sent you a message one day over Facebook/whatever with "wanna fuck"?  I think it's more along the lines of:

- You both appeal to one another physically.


- You are forced to constantly spend time together.

- Because of a disdain toward one-another, you find yourself thinking constantly about the other person.

- Brain mistakes these thoughts for attraction.

- Both are sexually deprived.

- Coitus ensues.  Nice try Freud. &gt; "Crying won't fucking help"

Fuckin got her. It's just a fucking game, quit crying stupid Madge. Wait, it's not a game, I'm not a rapist, I'm not a rapist! I'm not raping you! It's just a prank, bro! *See that camera over there!?* http://i.imgur.com/OWBDlb2.gif You like that you fucking retard? Next time, scream "GOTHAM NEEDS ME" before running away... you'd come up as mental, not rapey   Next time? There is always a next time  You must have experience  "WHERE IS THE TRIGGER!?" also works, I've heard. Well, more rapey if it ended up happening again.. &gt;and I never went back to Capture the Flag after that (I hear it may be getting cancelled)

Is that because of incidents like this? My old college "banned" a lot of campus wide games because people (who weren't playing or lost) frequently complained about it being disruptive. I use quotes because we just played anyway, and if questioned, played dumb. Campus Security was a joke though, and we couldn't see them calling the real cops over a silly game.  There is no such thing as Campus Security at my school. We have real, actual, cops.... sucks for us.  Eh good and bad, I mean we took advantage of their incompetence, but there were a couple of times we were like "Shit, we need someone that can protect us" when shit went down on campus. Like when the stoned, drunken frat guys that could bench press a Buick went on a paranoid rampage and started destroying anything/anyone they could get their hands on... that was a fun night.  You gotta tell that story now Not OP, but I have been to a party before where one of those meat head frat types knocked a guys eye out of its socket. Him and his buddies all show up at the same time with these lanky blonde gals. I was sitting in the corner smoking a blunt and remarking to my companion on how surreal their entrance was, as if they had appeared from some really cliche movie. So fast forward about 30 minutes, this guy shows up. He's about 150 lbs (68 kg), tall, and mousy. He seemed very unhappy in his own skin, or at the least very unsure of social endeavors. I note to my companion that it would be very true to the spirit of the night if the jocks began picking on the geeks. I began to regret this statement almost immediately and have since developed a form of survivor's guilt for ever saying it, as if predicting the event somehow called it into existence. So this neurotic mouse-man approaches this lanky blonde cheerleader. You know, the one dating the quarterback. Seeing a beer in her hand, he very nervously asks her where one might find more of the beverage. The music was very loud and she couldn't hear him but across the room I could very clearly see his eyes motioning towards her beer can and indeed the shape his lips took seemed to definitely imply that this man definitely wanted more beer. I couldn't fault the cheerleader, I have had much experience in providing beers for people suffering from varying degrees of incoherence. I hear her voice pique above all the noise "*WHAT?*". This is the pivotal moment of the night, and I believe if he had walked away at that moment he would have been fine. Fate, sadly, insisted this poor boy to lean closer to the blondes ear and again ask the age old question "where is the beer?". The blondes face scrunched up in sour grapes, I suppose he had bad breath. She pushes him away and goes into the kitchen, where her friends and the beer was. She starts telling her boyfriend about the strange encounter with an acne faced weirdo in the front room. The boy, eventually learning from someone the secret location of our alcoholic beverages, enters the kitchen and the girl points him out. "That's him, that's the freak!" She laughed and her boyfriend chuckles like a tiger purring. He was a mountain of a man. 250 pounds of lean muscle, seemingly chiseled by Greek sculptors of old. But the unfortunate mouse man had very limited situational awareness and decided an appropriate response to such an insult would be "Bitch". So our drunken bulldozer throws his beer upon the floor, and knocks two fifths of good whiskey off the counter. He grabs the boy up by the shirt and runs him out of the house, knocking over many a partygoer in his wake. He drops the boy in the yard, and the boy gets to his feet. He's a boy now, a mere child fighting against an infinitely stronger man with no fatherly compassion. A hit to the boys face sends him down. The jock leaps on top of him, and you can hear the air rush out of him due to a subsequent blow to the stomach. The jock begins bashing the boys face into the dirt, punch after punch. Long, momentous punches carrying extraordinary force. I could have swore he was trying to kill this kid. I was witnessing murder... Because someone called someone a bitch. It dawns on the jock that maybe he's being a little rough. He gets off the kid, walks bloody-nuckeled back inside like nothing happened. The boy stands up and his face looks like it's been hit with a hammer. I witnessed misshapen features like a zigzag nose or a mouth cracked open in the corner. Most gruesome of all, his eye seemed to swell from its socket, the white part turned dark red from all the violence. He got to a hospital that night, but I haven't seen him since. I sometimes see that jock at different stores and the like, but I keep better company nowadays and do not allow bears to attend my social gatherings.  For us those drunken frat guys just threw snowballs with rocks inside at freshman girls.

I think they were trying to flirt... That sounds more like PCP than weed and alcohol. Alcohol can cause that far too frequently. Ditto. 

I'm also on a biking campus, and *my fucking god bike cops are terrifying.* Lycra. I went to a particular university for a semester. While I was there, there were 2 reported rapes and one shooting. There was a path known as the "rape path"and there was a lot of cover up, but there were huge numbers of "major injuries" at this university.

The crazy thing was, this was little old Australia, in a nice city and a peaceful suburb. However, it is the top international university and shit goes down there. I transferred out and swore to never return. 

Edit: I'm talking about Griffith University in Brisbane, or as the locals call it "Griff-tafe"... terrible place, don't go there :/ Griffith, the top international university? Psssssssh what world are you living in? In population-dense areas like universities, one or two incidents like that are bound to happen, even in a supposedly safe place.

Quick edit: Not to excuse organizational coverups or rapists. And there's definitely a problem on your hands if you have a "rape path." I was speaking more generally. Wow thought for sure you were talking about my uni til the Australia bit. We had the "rape trail", and also plenty of riots. Because any complete college degree should include real world experience with flipping cop cars and teargas! Because we lost at basketball! Or won! Who cares! Is it common in American colleges to play games like that? I'm jealous :S

All we do here in Belgium is drink, drink and then drink some more. This is amazing.

I'm sitting here shaking with laughter and trying not to wake my BF but I still had to re-read it and laugh very quietly at **YOU CAN RUN IF YOU WANT, I'LL JUST CATCH YOU WHEN YOU'RE TIRED**

The ONLY thing that could improve this story is if you go back and try to apologize, start talking, start dating, then get married and THIS is the story of how you met. [deleted] *But he wasn't! So yea that's funny. Tea anyone?* The truth is we'll never know for sure. Biscuits? As long as i keep saying yes, he can't! It's a bold strategy Cotton! And he didn't

That's love

Real love It's OK if he only considered it [for an instant](http://i.imgur.com/fmhaAfp.jpg)  And THAT kids is how I met your mother. Still a better ending than HIMYM. Is this gonna become the new "Still a better love story than Twilight?" Is there a worse ~~love~~ juvenile Mary Sue quasi BDSM fantasy story than Twilight? 

 Fifty shades of Grey? I hope so. I just finished the series last week and missed the circlejerk the first time around. Classic Schmosby AMA request: Madge *...and then I tricked him into thinking I was some other girl! You should have seen the look on his face...* Is she a fucking shape shifter or something?  valar morghulis valar dohaeris Nope just a professional make-up artist. Ama request: potential accidental rape victim Madge or Not-Madge, the victim. Either would be nice though!  Madge's side of the story : Some neckbeard in ecology class kept flirting with me and I politely made it clear I wasn't interested. Next thing I know I see this post on reddit where he makes me out to be a frigid bitch. Well done asshole. "So this dorky neckbeard kept sitting next to me in class. He'd try to make shitty unfunny jokes and talk about books he hasn't read just to look smarter. I'm like 99% sure he was trying to get into my pants. But during my schools capture the flag game (it's an awesome tradition and everyone who gives a fuck dresses up for it.) I see dipshit standing around in shorts and a tshirt like a fucking loser. I'm pretty sure this is the first time he's left his residential hall for something that's not class. Anyhow, during the game I was creeping around and I see him crouched behind a bush probably fucking a squirrel or something. Then all of the sudden he leaps out and starts sprinting and yelling at some random girl who was on her way to the bus stop. I laugh my ass off, capture the flag, and put dog shit on the hood of his car. " This story didn't happen to originate from an incident a few years back at [EDIT: redacted] by any chance, did it? Because there are a few elements that are nearly verbatim from a story I heard there several years ago.

EDIT: removed school name because turns out this is the same story I heard, and erring on side of caution for personal info. ARE YOU FUCKING SORRY?!?! For those who don't get it: http://m.imgur.com/3YdJs I laugh so hard I cry every time I read that. I know it's probably made up, but it doesn't matter, whoever came up with it is a fucking comic genius.  As someone who has made this sort of speech error it is entirely possible.

I used to work at Wal-Mart several years ago and one day on cash some lady thanked me for something (can't remember what it was now) and my brain couldn't pick between saying "you're welcome" and "no problem" and I ended up saying "your problem" One time I was finishing a transaction with an extremely attractive customer and I handed her the bag and said, "Have a good looking."

She laughed and walked away and it took me until she was out the door to understand why she laughed at me for wishing her a good day.  I finished ringing up a customer one day and looked him dead in the eye and said "Thank you, sir. Have a good idea!" ... que silence. And a "I... I'm sorry... I meant good day.... *stunned look*"
 &gt;A guy goes to buy a train ticket, and the girl selling tickets has an incredible set of jugs.

&gt;He says, Give me two pickets to TitsburghummI mean, two tickets for Pittsburgh.

&gt;Hes really embarrassed and the guy in line behind him says, Relax pal it's a Freudian slip happens all the time. Just the other day at breakfast I meant to say to my wife, Please pass the sugar, but I accidentally said, You annoying bitch, you wrecked my life.

-Jackie Martling http://www.reddit.com/r/AskReddit/comments/1y6lhe/what_is_the_worst_thing_someone_has_said_to_you/cfhtedq

Is the other one that always gets me. I laugh so hard I cry every time someone says "Yeah, you like that you fucking retard?" 

There, I just made myself laugh thinking about it. I did something really similar. Same deal, but she wasn't a girlfriend, just a friend with benefits. She was all about being dominated and talking dirty and all that shit. So one night I'm fucking her doggystyle (the position she massively preferred over anything else), letting out a half assed "take it you fucking slut" or something along those lines every few minutes, making sure to remember to slap her ass when I did. She got frustrated with me not being passionate enough in my degrading of her, so she started exclaiming shit like "fuck me like the whore I am!" and "call me your dirty fucking slut!" I obliged, but continuously saying shit like "yeah who's the dirty whore/slut" started to seem really repetitive and even cheesy to me, so I searched my mind for other "dirty talk" to mix things up. The first thing I blurted out?

"I don't respect you." "Your parents would be disappointed in your behavior." "What would Mr. Rogers say?" &gt;"I don't respect you."

Haha, I blew more air out of my nose than usual, have an upvote. Did she like it? Check out the comment karma on that. Holy smokes.

And then his total comment karma is less than a fourth of that, somehow. It stops giving karma after like... I think 7K or something.  Damn taxes Well that sucks. Yeah, right?   
If I get a 28 fucking K karma comment, I want me that 28 motherfucking K karma.  Oh my god, me too. Every. Single. Time. I don't care if it is made up, it's one of the funniest things I've ever read.  My indoor soccer team yells this all the time. And I have never not smiled in pure fucking glee when I hear it. It's too good.  This was new to me and has forever changed my life. Thanks you.  There should be a bot who makes sure the comic is posted every time it's referenced, so no one misses out on it. Crying won't fucking help!! http://i.imgur.com/Ixs7Leo.gif Something, um, not that chill happened last night... http://i.imgur.com/Ixs7Leo.gif  I really should have seen that coming  Whoop there it is WHO THE FUCK SAID IT Wow, I never even expected that twist. You M. Nighted me. She thought he'd use his Shamalamadingdong on her. more like M. Nightclassed ayy lmao &gt; you can run if you want. I'll just catch you when you're tired.

This is impressive that you actually said that. Almost as if you ran up behind some girl at the bus stop and yelled "I'm going to rape you. Come here, because any minute now I'm going to rape you."

Bravo OP. Ya dun fucked up. All I can hear is Safety Dance. I started trying to type out the rape-themed Safety Dance, but it was just too macabre. I can't do it. Lol @ "Crying won't help", sounds just like what a rapist would say before the rapefest begins.  **RapeFest 2015 !** _Tickets go on sale next Tuesday._ THIS WEEKEND PREPARE TO GET ***ANNIHILATED*** AS COMCAST AND FOX NEWS PROUDLY PRESENT ***RAPEFEST 2015*** AT THE DUMPSTER BEHIND THE BUS STOP!


FEATURING ALL YOUR FAVOURITE RAPISTS! 

**BALD GUY!**  

**CRAZY BUS JUNKIE!**

**/u/TheTrueMountainMan!**

AND DON'T MISS THE SECOND ANNUAL CREAM PIE EATING CONTEST!

TICKETS ARE JUST ***TEN BUCKS*** AND THE FIRST TEN PEOPLE BEHIND THE DUMPSTER GET A CAN OF ***BUD LIGHT!***

TICKETS ARE AVAILABLE AT MULTIPLE LOCATIONS ON YOUR CAMPUS!

***SUNDAY! SUNDAY! SUNNDDAAYY!***


THIS WEEKEND!


^^Edit: ^^Forgot ^^the ^^year. Oh god creampie eating contest.......... &gt; I thought about her twice today before even writing this, that's how much of a crush I have on her.

FTFY
 oh man she's such a fucking try hard that I might just... Oh... Oh... OHHHHH MADGE "I wanna fuck you so bad" &gt; probably scarred

&gt; "probably"

Yeah, think we should go with "definitely and permanently" scarred Hey OP tell us where you school so that we can find the Redditors that can connect us to this poor girl, liberating her of all the PTSD  dreams of the future she would experience otherwise! Oh yeah, that'll help. "Hello, stranger! Remember that guy that chased you down and scared the shit out of you a few nights ago? Yeah, well he posted the story on the internet saying how bad he felt about it. So we tracked you down to your home address to tell you OP is a good guy!" I like it. Let's make it happen. Then we could hook them up on a date. It'll work out fiiiine. Mountain x Madge 4 lyfe. You should yell it at her while she's walking home at night.

&gt;OP IS A GOOD GUY!!!! "With a pre-occupied disposition. I thought about her twice today before even writing this, that's how much I don't like her." 

Someone just watched Louis CK. Glad someone else caught that. Jizzanthapus lives. Madge pulls off mask. "Fucking pussy." You should seriously consider submitting this to your school newspaper. For the sake of the entire student body's amusement, and also in hopes that girl will see it and maybe have a little less PTSD. This made me cringe so damn hard Holy fuck that was hilarious. Have an upvote.  TIL Capture the Flag exists outside ~~TagPro~~ video games.

EDIT: I'm in the UK. Here, we don't like fun, and CTF is not a concept outside TagPro, TF2 and other shooters. TF2 is a hat simulator. Lol'd while reading this part:  
  
&gt;To prevent "camping", there was a 50 meter buffer around each "flag".  
  
\#Lrn2RegrabStrats Madge out smarted you again. Classic Madge... That was great!  an unexpected twist at the end.  Must feel pretty bad to have done something like that, especially since you didn't mean to be a kidnapper/rapist kinda person.

That poor girl aint goin to night class alone no more.

 or anyplace else at night, alone for a long while :( &gt; I'm actually a pretty nice guy, really.

but

&gt; "Crying won't fucking help"

Tee hee

Edit: added 'but'
 My dad was walking behind a woman in Brooklyn late at night at a train station. She sped up because he was close behind and as she walked faster he thought she knew the train was coming and he was going to miss if if he didn't keep up.  Eventually he realized they were both at a full sprint chase and the train was not coming yet. This reminds me of a certain [John Mulaney bit](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qDZHwb-If9w) That poor girl. I really hope she reads this. Like a friend of her's hears her story, reads reddit and shows it to her or something.  TLDR; almost kidnapped/raped the wrong girl today while playing Capture the Flag.  I feel you bro. 

I once gave an unsuspecting kid a concussion because he "caught" the ball during a game of super hard two hand touch. 

Truth be told he was picking it up because it was out of play and was gonna give it back. My stupid ass ran at him at full speed and just shoved the living fuck out of him. His uber light body just flew and he hit his head on the grass and passed out.  Two hand touch is basically "shove as hard as humanly possible" right? He really desires Madge's Vadge. &gt;Today I fucked up by wanting to get back at a snooty know-it-all from Ecology class by chasing her down at a night game of Capture The Flag only to realize I'd chased down (and probably subsequently scarred) some girl from night class who wasn't even playing.

Wrong. Today you fucked up by not making Madge your bitch in capture the flag. That bitch styled on you, and by your own admission her team was 3-0 up in no time and then you chased some chick and quit. 

Madge made you her bitch OP. Madge IS better than you, and you's a bustah.  But there's still time... &gt; Madge IS better than you, and you's a bustah.

http://i.imgur.com/ChMFNBE.jpg Excellent story, but I'm extremely disappointed that Madge never got hers.  Got hers for what, exactly? Knowing more about ecology than OP?

Obviously you can argue civilly, but as someone who's both been in and taught ecology classes, it's common for class participation to be an important- and graded- element of the class. I'll bet you anything Madge's participation score is great. Maybe she's just smart and has resting bitch face, and/or is over-argumentative. I think OP's obsession with this girl is just odd.  Yeah, and if OP is admitting that he was just humoring her, she probably saw through the bullshit and acted accordingly.  Got hers for being a snob when op tried to make nice.  With a name like Madge she has it coming I was expecting Madge to finally be beaten at something causing her to fall into a deep depression, fail out of college, and become homeless. This ending was alright though. 6/10 This shit right here is too funny. There's no way this can be real. I think you need to hate bang Madge "I thought about her twice today before even writing this, that's how much I don't like her."

Prediction: OP and Madge get married I ruined a girls collarbone playing capture the flag, both dove for it at the same time....obviously my skull wanted it more than her measly collar bone Ok, I have a few points to make:

1) You are both an amazing story teller and a person with a firm grasp of proper grammar.  Never stop writing.  Writing will be there for you even if you never get published, even if you never find an audience outside of reddit.  It's a beautiful thing and you happen to be very good at it so never toss it aside. 

2) If this Madge you write of actually exists I think you secretly have a crush on her...can't get her out of your head and looking for a reason to get physical with her.   ;) 

3) If the poor girl you accidentally terrified is truly a student taking night classes then you should push through your embarrassment and make all attempts to find her and properly explain.  It's better that you suffer the temporary shame of admitting your accident than some poor girl who was just trying to better herself feel scared and mistrusting of men from here on out.   Madge sounds like Hermione from a perspective outside of Harry's clique First-year Hermione, to everyone including Harry's clique. I wasn't really sure about clicking this [at first](http://i.imgur.com/wqPq9D1.jpg). Marged sent decoy to get you away from the flag. always two steps a head.  haaaaaa God damn I'm so disappointed...I wholly expected Madge to have broken something, bone protruding and everything, necessitating an amputation, something awesomely fucked up. Sadly, no, this is TIFU, where disappointment runs rampent. Can Madge be the new Jenny? I disagree, there may never be a new Jenny. But, both her and this Madge girl may share a title of 'wicked cunt' 

EDIT: spelling Just because she is not interested in an immature jock?  Idk apparently Madge is a tryhard and he is some cool bearded nice guy who has to make friends with everyone in ecology. Seriously he is fucking lame. Nice try, Madge! I know, how dare she not be friends with every single fucking person in ecology. Especially cool bearded dudebros. Such a tryhard! I did not read jock right. "immature jock?" What are you on about? Sure, she's not a cunt but he's not immature. He's not mature enough to just let it go when a girl clearly is not interested in him.  I don't know if you're mixing up stupid reddit comments and reality but OP clearly doesn't like this girl at all. Hell, he insulted her face. You don't do that to crushes. *Considering if I should ask for a link to the jenny reference that I haven't stopped seeing, or google it and avoid looking like a plebian.*

Edit: Thank you I think it all got deleted cause he tried to put disclaimer or something about owning the story or something along those lines that went against Reddit's TOS. http://www.huffingtonpost.com/2015/01/20/liveblog-wifes-affair-_n_6509208.html

http://thoughtcatalog.com/james-b-barnes/2015/01/devastating-man-finds-out-his-wife-is-cheating-liveblogs-his-private-investigator-catching-her-in-the-act/

I had to look about a week ago, luckily before it was deleted.  It's epic reddit. I still think Carly fekked X's brains out and that OP's brother is an idiot. She did and confessed, did you miss the new updates? The last update I read she claimed she only held hands and kissed.

Is there a backup of the last updates somewhere? There are further updates, day 3. They fully confessed. I feel empty again for not being able to read the conclusion. Well just search for the, the subreddit and the title are the same. Last update she got it even worse than Jenny xD. She got slapped in the face like some Mexican soap opera. What an absolute cunt.  It looks like it was deleted :( but it was this awesome (possibly made up) post involving this guy(OP) who read his wifes texts and found out she was cheating and then hired a Private Investigator and he gave updates every few hours on what was going on and his wife's name was Jenny and she liked playing with penises. I googled it for you, this is what [I came up with](http://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jenny) Wtf. All you know of this girl is what some asshole on reddit has to say about her and you call her a cunt? You don't even KNOW her. Crawl out of your moms basement already.  I missed the boat on the whole Jenny thing. It wasn't that good but it was about a cheating wife so Reddit jerked all over their biscuit and ate it up.  From what I read (link above explains in more detail), Jenny cheated on a redditor for weeks before he found out, all the while living in a happy relationship. He hires a PI, finds out she's going to a hotel to cheat more. He confronts her, she cries, he says it's ok, she can live how she wants- just not married to him.  I kinda imagined her as Egg from Arrested Development for some reason. Jenny is the new Erin, so with that threshold of asshole already set I don't think being a stuck up student will qualify her to be the next Jenny. Erin? Meh, stuck up != Jenny-level Who is Jenny? Dude, that happened like last week. How zapped are our attention spans that we are already dethroning Jenny? In that both of the stories are fake? OP goes in vivid detail describing Madge's camo gear that day. Strange that he would chase after a random school girl mistaking her. OP said Madge was wearing a bunch of black clothing, not camo. She was wearing a black hat, scarf, and gloves, and as it's January, a lot of people could be wearing something similar. Plus, it was dark outside, so any dark clothing could be mistaken for black. &gt; I bounded from the hedges like Sea Biscuit while she was still a good 40-50 feet away. So I yelled "AAAaarrgh!"

[Was this you OP?](http://youtu.be/cZpm_9_PmYg) Pro tip: Use street view and google earth to make sure you aren't going to be in this kind of situation.  Pro tip 2: If you do pull up to a situation like this, keep fucking driving.  Pussy is a powerful motivator.  Pro Tip 3: Leopard print is a warning sign. The 'red light' of the dating scene. haha yeah the virgin went in.  Lol. I was thinking the same. You have to scout this shit out. Google, creep on Facebook, use Snapchat. She can't hide her ugly busted hooker meth face on Snapchat.  You'd be surprised what you can get someone to do with a knife and a methed up mentality.

"BITCH I SAID LOOK CUTE FOR THIS PICTURE." I read this in Mike Tyson's voice This should be a lot higher up, but honestly I usually go a step further by googling their phone number and getting their snapchat in the hopes that they'll post a somewhat normal looking story that doesn't involve them frying up some human limbs for dinner.
  
  It's also not a half bad idea to try and find their Facebook/twitter...having mutual friends is usually an automatic OK in my book. All this sounds creepy but I don't look at it that way-I'm looking out for my own safety (even as a guy) nothing else takes priority over that. Also, make sure to look up her criminal record on government sites and dox all her online accounts. Find out every detail about her, including about the time she slept with her cousin 12 years back.

Also, you could hack into her email accounts and see if she's up to anything shady. After that, set up a radio wave sniffer next to her house so you can listen in on her phone calls. 

Maybe you could also bug her house, so you can listen in on everything she does. Maybe she sleeptalks at night and says all her most creepy thoughs out loud?

All this might sound creepy but I don't look at it that way -- I'm just looking out for my safety.

^^Sorry ^^if ^^I ^^^^came ^^^^off ^^^^as ^^^^rude, ^^^^^^I ^^^^^^actually ^^^^^^think ^^^^^^what ^^^^^^/u/slow_connection ^^^^^^said ^^^^^^^^is ^^^^^^^^reasonable. Plus one you arrive to a place with boarded up windows you should probably nope out of there immediately [deleted] You aren't far off. Except she was asian.  You live in WA, don't you? How did you piece that together? Posting history?

EDIT: if you mean washington you are incorrect. Everyone here is Asian. Not in SW Washington.  :( I know a few Adams in Southwest Washington, have an upvote!  I only know one other.  I live in WA too, do you still have her number?  She sounds freaky! Just give your mom a call. Well, that considerably narrows down the states that you could live in. I'm actually in Western Australia.  Wait, someone in Perth actually gets anywhere at Tinder?

All I get is people with terrible eyebrows with taglines that say "I'm not here for anything, just to laugh at all the guy's pictures". I mean, it seems girls would have to be on Meth to agree to anything round here.

Oh Perth girls...I fucking hate you...

I really wish I could set Tinder to look outside of where I live. I don't want girls around my area because I don't live in a good area. I want them Applecross, Subi, Mt Lawley chicks! Not my local 5 kid 19 yr old chicks.  The ones from those areas come with problems of their own. [deleted] Yes, because there obviously isn't a state called Western Australia. Ironically its next to one called South Australia. [deleted] Oh, you lived in Highland Australia?  We have incredibly adventurous state names. 

I mean, the state north of South Australia isn't even a state, it's a territory. And it's called Northern Territory. Other territories that matter don't even occur on the continents of Australia!

Over on the eastern side we have all the unpopular places with bizarre names that make no sense and where nobody really goes. 

I mean, what really ought to be North Eastern Australia is called Queensland - I know, right? - and below that, in the true east of Australia we have not Eastern Australia, but a pair of states named Victoria and New South Wales. But Wales is halfway around the world, and Victoria hasn't won any wars. But we don't worry about those places because they're hardly populated.

Down the bottom of the east we have a place where we keep politicians and you can make an appointment with any type of medical specialist and attend that appointment on the same day, provided you called in the morning. All the politicians are kept there for part of the year so inept so-called terrorists or US "friendly fire" perpetrators know where to aim. 

With luck they'll send a bulletin to the actual residents, along with plane and bus tickets so when the cleansing happens no actual people are hurt.

Right down the bottom, detached from the mainland, and pristine and gorgeous, and the butt of many jokes about genetics we have Tasmania. Tasmania isn't manic, but women's pubic region is named after it, it's just that beautiful.

 Wait, did a guy from Perth just say nobody lives in Vic/NSW? Rockingham or some place like that i would guess, possibly Armadale? Actually central perth. Her place was near Vic Park, but somehow on the wrong side of it.  You're putting Perth on the map! I occasionally post on /r/perth, it's a good subreddit! Tinder dating in Perth seems to have a high chance of ending up in a crack den or something of the sort.

My friend went on a tinder date and the girl made him go to her dealers house and asked him to shout her some crack What great rep for my neighbourhood. Can't say I'm surprised though. Aussie WA? 

Also, CrazyDomains is absolute shit. Avoid avoid avoid.  This and the previous reply from /u/TorinoCobra070 made picture her like [this](http://i.imgur.com/l2D9oH8.jpg).

&lt;_&lt; How can she be asian AND look 15 years older than her pictures?
This asian is a PHONY. Meth. The answer is meth.  It really is a miracle drug Why did you not include that in the story?

[Is anyone else surprised that she was Asian?](http://imgur.com/troYIgn) Didn't really think it was important to the telling.  I'll admit I am really surprised by that. Mind jumped straight to white trash. I guess old, crusty crack whores come in all shapes, sizes, and ethnicities.

 We're all about equal discrimination here on reddit: anyone can be a crack whore! Even your mother! *Especially* OP's mother. Can confirm.  To be fair, I have NO idea why but until you said it I've never even considered that Asian crack whores exist.
 Here in America we don't here to much about Asian Crackwhores.  I just assume all Crackwhores are white or black. ........I guess I'm just racist.  You must live in the midwest then.
 Well, he did mention meth. That's pretty much the entire economy of the Midwest. I'm-ah Svedish plumber! Might be the only time this reference works. that's exactly who I had in mind! OP &amp; his date:
http://i.imgur.com/bWnF9us.jpg Is the woman the same one who played the day-hooker on My Name is Earl? Yep!

Looks like the day-hookering business was going south, I blame Li'l Chubby for probably opening up a brothel in Club Chubby. Yes! Patty! This looks familiar but I have no idea where from Breaking Bad Skank, Skank, Skank! Breaking Bad. I ain't no skank... Plat I would have nope'd at the boarded up windows. Glad you got out of there though. The thirst is real You saw her lawn wasn't landscaped, you should have assumed that she had full bushes everywhere else and bolted.  I'm shocked you stayed that long. If I pulled up to a blind date and it was an abandoned, middle of nowhere house, I would think it was a robbery and get the hell out. He's in Perth the whole place is in the middle of no where Technically it's on the far edge of nowhere. Yeah, if I were in the Middle of Nowhere I wouldn't worry much, cause Courage the Cowardly Dog is gonna save me. Some people will risk their life not to appear rude.  &gt; Some people will risk their life ~~not to appear rude.~~

... for pussy.

 &gt; Some people will risk their life ~~not to appear rude.~~

&gt; ... ~~for pussy.~~

for meth. Hahahaha oh my gosh, I knew things were going to get bad at the overgrown grass but I didn't know it was going to get *that bad.* I'm just glad they didn't get worse :/ I drove home in a fury though.  Yeah thank goodness you were able to leave safely!  Should have hit the pipe and then hit the stanky twat. Nothing spells fun like throwing a hot dog down a hallway lined with meth sores.

To be honest though if she didn't talk about price beforehand I think she just wanted to get high and fuck, not to make you pay for it, so drug user, not crack whore. Agreed. It's a little offensive that the poster calls her a crack whore when it seems there's no indication. Fuck ups wanna have sex, too. Tinder is always a bit of a crap shoot, although I've never had *nearly* that bad of an experience haha. 

My worst was my first. I was in a different city for business with my boss staying at a hotel. This girl agreed to come pick me up from the hotel to watch a movie. We talk for a while in the parking lot smoking a cigarette, and decide that neither of us is probably a murderer, so we head out.

At her house, she decides on Despicable Me. *That's fine, I love the movie to be honest.* Where it get's weird is she is **weirdly** into the movie. Like she won't talk to me at all really and is hysterically laughing at every joke even though she says she's seen the movie over 15 times. Odd, but ok.

The movie ends, she restarts it and finally starts talking to me. Somehow I end up tickling her (*because I'm apparently still in middle school*) but when I get to her neck she freezes. I stop and she says, "No, that feels good keep doing it." So here I am, tickling her neck while she sits with her eyes closed completely unmoving, and insists that I keep going, for like **20 mins**.

Finally we start making out, she asks if I want to spend the night, and I tell her I have to get up early so she drives me all the way back to the hotel. Bizarre experience all around. Thanks for the story. That is utterly bizarre. 

I once went on a date with a girl who acted supremely bored the entire time, didn't show any interest in any of my stories, barely added her own. I wrapped it up quickly because I know a dud when I see one. 

Straight after the date she texts me to say she had a wonderful time and would really like a second, smiley face smiley face kiss kiss. Some people are strange.  Hahah she sounds like one of those people that can only interact through cell-phone. it's the new generation of people I guess ......
having typed that I feel really old now :( There are plenty of us who are perfectly capable of interacting face-to-face. 

 "Yeah..." "Whatever" "Same I guess" "This weather right?"

Tap...Tap...Tap...Tap...Tap...Tap...Tap...Tap...

"I had a great time babe I am waiting for our second date! Hopefully it's even better :) ;) ;* :* :O "  :O My first date with a new girl (not from Tinder, met her at a party), I thought she hated me. She acted just like that. We went to a trendybplace near campus. I ordered beer with my dinner, she didn't want to drink, so I felt awkward. I did almost all of the talking and she looksd terribly annoyed. It didn't help that tjis was the one night that the smooth jazz combo was replaced by a screamo lesbian band. We left, parted ways, and that was that. 


A few days later, I texted this girl again about a second date. I knownshe acted like she hated me, but, what the hell. She was pretty. To my surprise, she was excited to see me again! We've gone on many happy dates since. Turns out, she was severely hung over for the first one. We've been together for two years now/ This is a nice story, thanks for sharing. See! You should give her another chance!  She was just shy  [deleted] If she said things like "hello other adult" or "I went to stock market today and I did a business" or if her name was Vanessa Adultman She was actually three kids in a trench coat  

 If you could have any one food for the rest of your life, what would it be and why is it spaghetti? Ever had a dream where all your friends were dinosaurs? Sometimes references are just way funnier when i don't get them  I hate that. I mean, I don't blame someone for being shy but it's so hard to know where you stand! I went on a date where I pulled out all the stops. Great date shit. We had talked a lot online previously and had a great connection. But the entire date she seemed bored and tired. Completely uninterested. At the end, she put her head on my shoulder, and I kid you not, she says "I think I'm falling for you."  ??? What'd you do? Haha I'm basically a guy version of this. Has been improving (it is an improvement I hope) over the last year or so.. 

Ended up breaking up with my girlfriend of five years after becoming a little bit more outgoing. Don't have any regrets but my life is certainly very different now! By different you mean you've subscribed to more subreddits?  [deleted] Hahah some people are fucking weird... I like Mulan but *sheesh*

My roommate in college hooked up with a girl who put on the Justin Bieber Christmas album on while they made out, and would pause to sing along occasionally. After like an hour she put on the movie Elf and said lets go to bed and after a while of unsuccessful boner-spoon-poking he rolled over and fell asleep. He woke up a few hours later and she was *still* awake, watching it from the beginning again..

Note this was in like October.. can't make that shit up. Nah. The kicker is when you're in China on business and go to a karaoke bar with your Chinese coworkers. They tell you to sing something. You break out I'll Make a Man Out of You *in Mandarin* and win all the praise. Jackie Chan? Jackie Chan does sing the Mandarin and Cantonese versions in the films, yes. But so can you. man she done methed up.
you don't go do that when you just meth someone new.
 I imagined Mike Tyson reading that out loud. I knew I recognized that voice in my head! It's so much better with his goofy grin, too. I hope you're watching his show on Adult Swim. It's pretty incredible. Ain't got no time for bird sex I wasn't aware he had a show. I'll have to look into it. It's animated. I think it's called Mike Tyson's Mysteries. Very entertaining. Mike Tythonths Mythterieths great, now every time I read the word "meth" i see Mike Tyson in my head saying "mess". She was using meth, huh? I'll bet those pictures were only taken two years ago. That shit dries you out like a Burger King heat lamp. I thought you were about to realize it wasn't a woman at all but a very large prehistoric amphibian who wanted to ask you for some change.  Well it was about that time I realized this Tinder date was with a Loch Ness monster.  Thats why you always keep about tree fiddy on you at all times that's a bad idea... you keep giving the loch ness monster tree fiddy, and that's why it keeps coming back ;) [deleted] OP is obviously no Zack Maybe he's X? He didn't drive 20-30 mins just to hold hands all night!  He thought she'd touch his penis; play with it a little. OP is obviously Carly....Set it up, then gets there, gets scared, and backs out. The only thing she left out was that she ratted her friend out while she was gone picking up x. Who do you think you are? PI?  Why did I just laugh so hard at "looks like the grass hadn't been cut in 7000 years." It caught me off guard I suppose.  Why say that on this thread though..? Can I be the two cameras set up in the house to make sure there was  no hitting? these references are golden. i want more. Maybe hes PI #2 Maybe she is Zack? its been a fucking day and this joke is already completely murdered He should've met her at a Starbucks, but only after PI #1 followed her (100 feet is *the* distance). Don't forget Jenny will pull a few u-turns for no reasons  or wants to play with your penis just a little bit? Originality/10 Crystal found a new house. Should have asked her about the $12 anal.  I hope she still has the $20 Around The World and $2 brown paper bags.  I'm partial to the Any Big Dog for $17.50 Everyone tells women to be wary and not go to the house of someone they haven't met before alone. It's just as dangerous for men. You don't know if this chick has a gun, a boyfriend, a gang, some crazy cannibalism fetish. Never meet someone for the first time alone, especially on their turf. Doesn't matter who it is. This, I cant believe there are not more comments saying the same thing, Its super dangerous to meet some one you don't know for the first time, at their house, regardless if you are a man or woman. Yeah they might end up being normal, but on tinder you have like a 25% chance that they will be a normal well adjusted person. You could always set up a partner system and text someone to have them call you.

I, for one, crave the danger. There are better ways to put your self in dangerous situations, like, watching top gun for example.
 Yeah seriously. "oh well she's a tiny woman, I'll be alright", because weapons don't exists in 2015 and you can never be unexpectedly outnumbered. I'll just walk into this house with boarded up windows. Oh hey, a giant red flag on the roof. Pretty.

Must have been really horny if he noped out that late in the game. The comments in this thread are very different to the comments where the woman went to a guys house. Fucking double standards. And yes, you're very right!  Don't worry OP!  Now it only looks like you went to buy some meth from a drug house!!! I bet you she was a prostitute.. those women are all over dating websites these days..  This was actually my fear. I was thinking "if she's a prostitute why didn't she ask for money up fro-OH GOD SHE'S GOING TO PLAY THE RAPE CARD" [deleted] Don't ever reek of desperation OP. You should have nope'd out of there before you even parked your car!! 
Glad you are safe and showered again!  I have a couple of rules now:

* don't go to the house. For Christ's sake, at least grab a beer somewhere first
* don't make sex-related decisions until you've at least had a good fap to think about it Always fap first You choke the chicken before any big date, don't you? Tell me you spank the monkey before any big date. Oh my God, he doesn't flog the dolphin before a big date. Are you crazy? That's like going out there with a loaded gun! There's Something About OP's Crackwhore?
 Thank you so much for the Something about Mary reference. Haven't thought of that movie in years Are there people who don't know that you're supposed to always meet strangers in a public place? ALWAYS MEET STRANGERS IN A PUBLIC PLACE! Has anyone gone on a good quality tinder date? Like Jesus Christ  &gt;Like Jesus Christ 

Nah, I think Jesus uses ChristianMingle. Met my boyfriend on tinder. We've been dating 6 months now. [deleted] Yep, a lot of times. Actually I never had a bad tinder date. Only once, after the first time we had sex, the girl told me she liked to watch necrophilia videos, and also inserting things in guys penises (like screwdrivers and shit). She also got off by watching collective rape videos.

I need to say that got me a little scared, but I banged her again. I'm still alive. Nothing was inserted in my penis (and anywhere else). Would bang again, 10/10.

Edit: typo Sure, honestly. I've met probably ~10 women off there, and gotten more numbers. If you chat for a while, I don't use it to find like a hookup that night, I use it as like a dating service like OkCupid She only wanted to touch your penis a little bit I was just stopping by for kisses.  Got a little more than you bargained for there though, didn't ya? Should've touched her penis a little We should set op up with the girl that went to the guys house on a tinder date. Ouch! Mine ended in a dousing of vomit, but no crack.  TIL meth is crack Well no, not really. It's just that now that meth is more popular and crack less so, the meth heads need somewhere to smoke their meth and there were a lot of underutilised crack dens so....  &gt;meth pipe

&gt;crack whore Meth needs a body to live in and with the Crack losing its popularity there were all those underutilized Crack whores Ah yes, well you see the woman in that TIFU, let's call her "Jenny the crack ho", was once a crack ho. Of course now that meth is more popular and more common than crack, she tends to smoke meth much more than crack. Just she's not got around to changing her name by Deed Poll to "Jenny the meth head"  I mean, you did tell her smoking in the house was okay. "It all clicks. The garden, the paint, the boarded up windows, the smell, her appearance. This is a crack den and she is a crack whore"

Good luck with the career in rocket science. Fucking jenny I love that you still knocked and went inside.  A guys "about to get laid" instincts trump all common sense. Some of the best advice I've ever heard and can give is that most decisions related to women should be made post-masturbation.

This assumes you are a straight male.  In the UK we call this "A decider wank".
Source- I made it up. Wanna know how this works?  Okay, first, I got pregnant in high school.  Then, my baby's daddy decided not to leave his wife but he did stop being my guidance counselor so none of my transcripts went to college.  Now I am going to take you through the next eight years in eleven seconds:  Meth.  Meth.  Meth.  Biker boyfriend.  Dead cop.  Technicality.  Rehab.  Jesus.  Pharmacy assistant.  METH!!!!!  Checkout clerk.  Wave your food over this laser beam and place your food in the bag.  Do you have any meth?  No?  Then I'll leave you with place your food in the bag.  Sad. &gt;TIFU by not getting a gumjob

You missed out bro. &gt;P.S. Fucking Jenny.

Amen, brother. You actually traveled through time and you were at Jenny's house in 15 years after the divorce. I thought this was going to be an /r/nosleep scenario after the boarded up windows... Did you check the prices on the wall? The camera adds 10 lbs., Tinder takes away 50. Did you at least get some free meth out of it? Hey, i smoke in my own house &gt;:( I call this bullshit

Few people will read my comment

But you will OP

YOU WILL I read.

Let me put it to you this way. If I said "I tried hooking up with a girl but she turned out to be a drug addict so I left", you'd probably believe that right?
 next time, just make her blow you in the car. meth addicts don't have many teeth and that makes for a good bj OP, are you color blind?

.

.

.

.

Because you missed a bunch of red flags. TIFU by knocking on a door. I am the one who knocks.  If you stayed there any longer Zach would have walked in flinging his little dick around expecting you to touch it! glad you got out when you did! I linked this to a girl from tinder I haven't met yet,

Her reply,
"first, my house is pretty nice, i don`t do drugs, yes i smoke, no my roommates don`t do gang bang, we can meet at the coffee shop or somewhere and what the fuck :D"

I'm now convinced this could be Jenny And I'm the Zack 2.0 I hope this tale helps you get lai- I mean, have a nice coffee with a pleasant person.  Pro-tip: ALWAYS. FUCKING. MEET. IN. PUBLIC. ALWAYS. I seriously cannot stress how important it is for BOTH genders.   OP Carly'd outta there. Carlying out of a place? We're making that a thing now? I guess I have been away from reddit for a while and I feel stupid for asking.... But can anyone explain the "Fuck Jenny" and "Fuck Zack" thing? I've seen it on several posts now. /u/mylifesuxnow posted an epic 3-part saga on how his wife is cheating on him, him investigating her adultery, and her web of lies spinning into incredulity. There are some extra plot twists but I don't want to spoil all the fun. It's not that much different from a lot of cheating tales except reddit was there for every rock of the roller coaster and it has now spun off several memes. 

[Here is part 3 to the story.](http://www.reddit.com/r/tifu/comments/2sw3is/part_3_wupdates_tifu_by_reading_my_wifes_text/)

 Reddit pro tip: If you put a / on both sides of the u it will automatically link the user. Also works for linking subs. Thanks a million! I'm still not convinced the whole Jenny/Zack saga is real.  Entertaining?  Sure.  But It has too many plot holes, and too much of it sounds like some neckbeard fan fiction fantasy.  Ya, I call bullshit too. I'm a divorce attorney, and hiring a PI for adultery is just such overkill. It's not a criminal trail, the standard is just more likely than not. A bunch of phone calls to a dude in the middle of the night is enough, sexting and your case is open shut locked and sealed. Well what if they get deleted--Ha what a joke, it's a one page form my receptionist fills out to subpoena the cell phone provider and see everything that phone has ever sent--like $20 of legal work. Not to mention, I've never seen a prenuptial with a adultery clause. Not that they don't exist. It's just not how people normally operate. If you bother to go through the legal, emotional, hassle of doing a prenuptial, they always seem to turn out the same way--everything I make is mine. Not, I get to keep all my shit if you cheat on me.  I also feel like if he has "live feeds" and video evidence, etc etc etc (lol) then he could at least provide us with a single screenshot of proof... But nope.  You're giving it way too much credit. There is *no way* it actually happened. Probably why the guy posted it in /r/TIFU instead of /r/Relationships like most breakup stories.  Much less likely to be called out for crap and deleted here. Thank you for this concise explanation.  So did it become reddit-wide known to be a meme now outside /r/tifu? Shit, I witnessed a meme's birth as it was unfolding. Be wary of the fact that the whole Jenny/Zack saga might be entirely made up.  I don't think its real.  Entertaining?  sure.  But not real.   It reads like neckbeard fan fiction.  Read the TIFU threads about the guy reading his wife's texts.  All will be clear. Except the actual Zach and Jenny post  Had to be there bro haha Guys, you wont believe this but it happened to me as well, I confirmed with OP that its the same person. The only difference is I was dumb enough to hang around and this woman, is not a woman. Its a Trans guy. 

its honestly so fucked up.  Oh, wooooow. 

I wonder how many have actually stayed? &gt;P.S. Fucking Jenny 

All posts should be signed off this way... Fuck that bitch.  "Bitch came to door looking more like Freddy Jackson"!! I commend you for making it that far after seeing so many blaring warning signs. Sounds like a pleasant experience.  No commendation necessary. No good decisions are made with your penis.  Damn OP, you're lucky you got out in one piece.  I'd have noped the fuck out when I saw the lawn.  Did you confuse the hooker section of backpage for Tinder? Well she never said anything like "will have sex for rewards/roses" or anything like that :/ Her pimp is probably gonna be even more pissed then... This reminds me of the post where "TIFU going to a guy's house on a Tinder date." New reddit meme. 

Scumbag Stacy is now "She's a fucking Jenny"  "The burned hand teaches best." - Gandalf You and the chick who went to that guy's house at midnight should meet up to take personal safety classes together.  &gt; P.S. Fucking Jenny.   
  
Don't fuck Jenny, She is apparently a crack whore. Jenny after the divorce.
 that was nice of him to show all his crazy at once so you didn't have to waste your time putting in effort to date him.  did you a favor Also saved you money on the private investigator  TWO private investigators. The second one covers the night shift, remember? I remember, I was there! ...zack?  Little dick Zack?* He could have been X you assuming assholes! HOW DO YOU KNOW HE WASN'T JENNY **YOU** ASSUMING ASSHOLE?! Pretty sure OP is carly and this is why she didnt cheat All the pieces of the puzzle are coming together *:takes a hit off crack pipe:* *we were all there, what a night...* Saved you about tree fiddy Please please please don't go over to people's houses you've never met before. Especially at midnight. Always have at least the first meetup in a public place.  Yes, that was my original fuck up. Usually, I don't ever go to anyone's house. Lesson learned - it could have been worse. [deleted] I wonder how long "zack" "Jenny" "x" is going to live on reddit. Itll probably last longer than her marriage did Heyoo. Still rooting for sending Zack a dick pic or two

Edit: I cun shpell It's time we told you son, Zach isn't real. Neither are Jenny or Carly. It's all just a story we tell kids for fun, and to keep them from marrying dirty, dirty whores.  8 years? That's about 2 weeks in Internet Time Cant wait to see Star Wars in a few minutes  