Stone age mentality. Sad. By the way, I wanted to show what a Saudi caning looks like. This guy is getting 50 lashes: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EDz4DyvKn3M

ETA: /u/Father_of_Hate found a youtube clip of the actual caning of the man in the article above:  http://youtu.be/l_wN4kBdanY


Just wanted to give it the exposure it deserves. [deleted] Bite down on this, son. It helps. I know. Would you like to know more?  How about 25 elastic band snaps to the scrotum?  Every Friday. I actually laughed when I saw it. After seeing your comment, I was fully expecting it to be even worse than what Rico experienced, maybe a nine-tails with razors in it or something. That was just... weak. Pain comes in different doses. Public humiliation is what this is. it looked like it felt nice... "sir, please keep your arms down. I know it feels good but control yourself" That...that didn't look anywhere nearly as bad as I thought it would.

I was expecting the guys arms to be strung up with shirt off and a slow harsh 50 beltings.

I'm not saying it wouldn't hurt, but hell - in primary school we had the cane for when you really were a naughty bugger and it looked very similar to that except we copped it across the arse. Was just the one hit though. It's a joke. It's meant to be humiliating. That's not even hard enough to get someone off (who would otherwise get off on whipping).

Islamic law forbids it from injuring or cutting the skin or leaving a mark.

I think only Southeast Asian nations break with Islamic tradition when it comes to whipping. They use fewer but harder strikes. Not sure why. I figure they must have had some pre-Islamic tradition of caning.

This doesn't make it any better I suppose, but that's the point here. To publicly shame this guy for doing what he did. It's used for things like public drunkenness or lewdness too, where shame is a powerful deterrent.

Edit: It's kind of weird how OP's news article is talking about the whipping like it's debilitating when there's a video of them doing it for a few seconds and it's the same weak version of whipping as in the link posted above. One "eyewitness" even said "He was silent, but you could tell from his face and his body that he was in real pain.... But we can see it in the video. That's not painful.  "Badawi was lashed on his back and legs without any break for at least five minutes." Yes, it's horrible, but he could withstand hours of that without much more than having his skin turn red. It's just funny how you can see the news trying to make it seem more than it is. If he's injured, show the full video. The Saudis don't stop you, there's a video of a full session linked right above.

Edit: Okay, I'll stop being an idiot. This guy's got 10 years in jail and needs some kind of argument to get out of the country. 

Edit: I should correct myself, of course it stings and probably enough to cause you to jump, you can even hit yourself hard enough to do that. I was just comparing it to the stereotypical movie screen caning/whipping that the article seems to invoke. As for whether Saudis hit hard enough for it to really hurt, I bet this guy's hurt more than the other guy in the other video even though the strikes looked similarly weak. Injuring or cutting the skin? Somebody pass the message onto ISIS!  I think it's fairly common knowledge that ISIS members don't tend to be particularly good at following Islamic law, or even knowing what it is. Their religion is an excuse, not a motivation. Like they actually care what Islam is really about.

Those guys are about as Muslim as you are. While I'm completely against the "Islam bad" circlejerk, IS is only made possible by basic rules and traditions embedded in Sunni beliefs. The same ones that enabled the massive Muslim conquests of the first kalifates.

It's an excuse, but it's also a tool. &gt; I think only Southeast Asian nations break with Islamic tradition when it comes to whipping. They use fewer but harder strikes. Not sure why. I figure they must have had some pre-Islamic tradition of caning.

That would be due to the British Empire, flogging was a big part of both military and civilian punishments. Um. Sorry about that one, guys. We did enjoy our floggings, for people who aren't too familiar with English history, [This was the tool of choice.](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cat_o'_nine_tails) Not true. The lashes I've seen in UAE for drinking (in sharjah, next to dubai) are 80 lashes that leave very bruised marks all the way down to your legs. You are only allowed one piece of clothing. Apparently you can't sleep on your back for a night or two, but the marks last a good 3 weeks. Oh you can also get up to 1 month in jail. This is without possession, just being tested that you have alcohol in your blood.  Story time:

Friends of mine went clubbing in Dubai. Drinks ensued, etc. Now they live in Sharjah, and the idiots decide to drive because they didn't have a lot to drink. 

Lo and behold a guy crashes into them, and he was passed out, so they call the police. 

Police come with the ambulance and do their stuff, then they arrest my friends because they were under the influence (they are Muslim so they aren't allow to drink, not to mention drinking without a license is against the law, and the country has a zero tolerance policy to drink driving). 

They were given the choice of 80 whips or 1 month in jail.  You're wrong. That DOES hurt. I've been caned like that, and it absolutely starts to sting a bunch. The end of the cane is traveling pretty quickly and after five minutes you really are hurting. I've done this personally.  Don't say it doesn't hurt until you've actually tried it. Once.

There was this kid who...

Took a trip to Singapore and brought along his spray paint 

And when...

He finally came back...

He

Had

Cane marks all over his bottom.

http://youtu.be/dU95v23MQ4c &gt; I think only Southeast Asian nations break with Islamic tradition when it comes to whipping. They use fewer but harder strikes. Not sure why. I figure they must have had some pre-Islamic tradition of caning.

You might be thinking about Singapore, which isn't an Islamic country (it's mostly Chinese), and famous for canning offenders, vandals, drug dealers etc? The canning in Singapore is bloody painful and is administered by machines in private. Nothing to do with Islam, just as a form of physical punishment and to strongly deter the sort of offenders they don't like. Repeat that every Friday for 20 weeks.
 it becomes a weekly massage Im gonna go ahead and sa it hurts more than it looks like. Not brutal pain, but enough to make it suck to lay down for a couple days. They look like they're even bored handing out the punishment. "Sigh, let's just get this stupid shit over with..." https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=l_wN4kBdanY

That's the video of the caning of the man in question Raif Badawi. I had a dominatrix do that to me once.
 That's looks far more embarrassing than painful. I'd hate to be the guy that has to do the hitting too.  Normally you would have to pay someone for that. 

All jokes aside, caning and whipping are two different things right? In the article its said hes in bad health because of it. Stone age it may well be, but we still support that country every time we visit a petrol station. "We" is right. I assume you support your local oil fracker or have come up with a sustainable alternative energy.  Well the nuclear energy IMO is the most sustainable of all, with the lowest impact on the environment. But that's another debate altogether. :) The fact is that in today's world we cannot escape globalization unless we become hermits. Otherwise we're bound to participate in global trade in which the most corrupt individuals and groups all too often profit greatly. bro you seen the price of oil?!?! I thought that's what the video was showing. Nice.  I love this comment. Where the UK is headed under Cameron. don't worry, it's to protect the children!

/s don't worry, they're reclassifying us all as children! I can walk out right now and pick up any novel/music track/film/TV show I like... but not any video game, because my impressionable subconcious may be affected by the *messages* it might contain. &gt; I can walk out right now and pick up any novel/music track/film/TV show I like...

Don't worry, Cameron is working on changing that. Fuck the ch-  

wait a minute. they already did  Pedophile spotted.  Doing your part to keep pedophiles from hurting themselves at the gym, I, for one, am proud of ya. Oi, don't forget Australia. Abbott is doing a damn fine job too! He hasn't banned face sitting.  I think we can figure out why without too much effort. It's on the tip of my tongue.  Just the tip.  Banned *filming* face sitting. You can still do it, you just can't film it. Apparently that makes it dangerous.

Edit: /u/Kindern posts below contradicting this, saying that the rules are that as facesitting *could* be dangerous, it *could* be grounds to refuse classification for a film depiction. Not nearly as draconian as first imagined. Because the camera adds 10lbs. I think the UK's a while away from public canings. They'll be legal unless somebody films it, then it'll be a crime.  Hopefully he won't last much longer and then we'll all be happy Thinking it would be any different under Miliband is incredibly naive. Freedom of speech Saudi style. Brought to you by the makers of gasoline.  Good thing the brutal dictatorship has been protected and supported by the west, or they'd have been out on their arses long ago.
 Exactly. when a human rights violation happens in Iran, china or Russia, its get denounced and condemned by US in every way possible.

happens in Saudi, Qatar, UAE? No problem. &gt;  in Iran,

Interestingly, Iran was a democracy before the West replaced the elected government with a brutal dictator, the Shah.

And when the people of Iran finally managed to get rid of that Western-aided asshole, the US started to build up Saddam Hussein, so he could "punish" Iran for it, with a terrible war.

And what then happened, I hope many people here still remember.
 The head of that goverment was [Mosadegh](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mohammad_Mosaddegh) and he was deposed by [Operation Ajax](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/1953_Iranian_coup_d%27tat). &gt; overthrow of the democratically elected Prime Minister of Iran Mohammad Mosaddegh on 19 August 1953, orchestrated by the United Kingdom (under the name 'Operation Boot') and the United States (under the name TPAJAX Project).

&gt; Mossadegh had sought to audit the books of the Anglo-Iranian Oil Company (AIOC), a British corporation (now BP)

Interesting, thanks for the link. Never read about the details. If you're interested in learning more about the history surrounding Operation Ajax and the overthrow of Mosadegh, I recommend reading [*All the Shah's Men*](http://www.amazon.co.uk/All-Shahs-Men-American-Middle/dp/047018549X). &gt; Interestingly, Iran was a democracy before the West replaced the elected government with a brutal dictator, the Shah.

I really wish I would stop seeing this on reddit, because it's not really true. Mohammad Reza Shah had already been the king for 12 years when Operation Ajax happened. 

Iran was **not** a democracy, it was a constitutional monarchy. Mossadegh was the Shah's Prime Minister and he was by no means republican. He just wanted to nationalize the oil company so the British would stop taking all of the profits. 

Mohammad Reza Shah was placed on the throne in 1941 when the allies invaded Iran and removed his father (Reza Shah) for declaring neutrality in the war.  

Also the Shah was not a "brutal dictator". He wasn't perfect by any means but he didn't even remotely compare to Pinochet or Saddam. If he had been, the revolution probably would not have happened.  Iranian here and I completely agree with you. It's as if Iran had Athenian democracy since the Medes.

One commonly left out fact is that he really could have pulled off a Gaddhafi or Assad, especially since Iran had like the 5st largest military in the world equipped with modern, Western weapons. Yes some soldiers quit but others were willing to shed blood and did during some protests in the Revolution. For Gaddhafi it failed, but it seems like Assad's brutal repression worked. [deleted] With their recent population increase, it's not that big of a stipend anymore. And lots of younger Saudis don't really have much by way of job skills because of the stipend, either. 

That country will be in a world of hurt once their oil runs dry.

Edit: [I found a pretty decent article on the subject.] (http://www.theguardian.com/world/2013/jan/01/saudi-arabia-riyadh-poverty-inequality) "My grandfather rode a camel, my father rode a camel, I drive a Mercedes, my son drives a Land Rover, his son will drive a Land Rover, but his son will ride a camel."

Rashid bin Saeed Al Maktoum, former Emir of Dubai. Whoa, they don't make gasoline. They export crude. Distillation happens elsewhere. There are a number of countries that deserve a serious boycott, Saudi Arabia, Israel, Turkey and Egypt are my top four right now. Even those who don't believe in a healthy climate for our planet should be able to agree that it's time to stop giving ghose assholes in SA billions of dollars for their oil. That'll only make it worse for normal citizens like the man serving the 10 year sentence As an Egyptian I agree on a boycott for Egypt. So long as it hurt the high ranks not the poor uneducated people who have no idea who they are electing Someone should do something about this *sips coffee* The people who should be doing something about this are Saudis themselves. Enjoy your coffee. I wonder how many people will stand by at his canings. Hopefully someone will cane the caner while discussing their thoughts about the whole situation. Is that true? Would you say that about North Koreans as well? 
Sometimes living in oppression means just trying to fit in to not get killed. 
There is no room for changing the regime.  Saudis are people too, do not let arbitrary borders mark where your empathy starts and ends. Yeah, Saudis are people too. Except for the women. If they were people, we'd have to let them drive and stuff. How would we go about setting up an arabic language forum to discuss the religion?

A Facebook page perhaps? May I suggest a subreddit?

Edit: At least on reddit the Saudi officials won't be able to identify everybody as quickly. A Facebook page where most people write under their own name might not be the best of ideas in a society like this. I actualy had the exact same thought.

... Wanna set up a liberal forum for Saudies? :) Yeah let me just write a note to the fucking King of Saudi Arabia.

 These fuckers had their reps in the French March just the other day.... Hilarious shit.  I'll just leave this here. http://elitedaily.com/news/politics/student-tweets-hypocrite-world-leaders-charlie-hebdo/903683/

I know, I know, elitedaily... But for once, I think the list format actually makes sense.  Russia actually announced they will blacklist anyone reprinting any CH content the very same day. This is a fucking joke.

However, I don't get why Poland, Ireland, Greece, UK, US, and Israel are on the list... The Blasphemy law was updated in recent years here in Ireland, but it's an archaic law. It's not really enforced. Because Polish politicians are (in the biggest parties) crooks and assholes. Also we still have blasphemy law and it's still in effect (people getting fined for "insulting religious feelings" and Church of FSM being rejected as a parody religion, while ignoring reasons why it SHOULD be approved). While I'm sure someone could come up with human rights violations perpetrated by the United States, I don't think AG Eric Holder had anything to do with local police detaining journalists in Ferguson.


That's the only one I can dispute without researching much. Makes me doubt some of the other claims though. 
&gt;Last year, Badawi was initially sentenced to seven years in prison and 600 lashes in relation to the charges. But after an appeal, the judge *stiffened* the punishment.

What kind of fucked up judicial system is this? It's because Saudi Judicial system makes every judge interpret each law and punishment up to his own decision. It's not a coded system. So trying again is just up to the Judge's mood. And the Judge was not so happy when he heard that Badawi's co-workers and wife was reaching out to foreign human rights organizations (not saying that stiffening his judgement is just, it isn't)   It's a sharia judicial system  Hard to think some people are trying to establish this in England. Leave your shithole country for a nicer one and then try to turn that country into a shithole like the one you left.   Makes perfect sense.  Their idea seems to be 

"Let's combine the good sides from two systems. The economic system of Europe, and the political system of the Middle East"

The world they dream is a rich fundamentalist country. A particular country comes to mind. They should move to that country. Yes. Do not let people unite. A key part of divide and conquer is to destroy unity. Ubisoft is doing a good job destroying unity already. In the end its hard to see where Ubisoft ends and Saudi Arabia begins. When is the The Interview 2, Mission Saudi Arabia coming? But it's a US ally. When the world economy is no longer dependant on oil. So, never. I swear they said the exact same thing about coal... The world is still dependent on coal. Where did you think you got all that steel from? Steel... trees? How fucking weak does your faith have to be to be scared of a fucking online discussion? "Let's reinforce how peaceful Islam is by beating anyone who questions us within an inch of their life!" 

And I'm saying this as a Muslim, they are an absolute disgrace.  It's not their faith that is weak (it may well be too, right enough) it is their power. The Wahabi's who are in charge of Saudi Arabia make up 20% of the population. They oppress the other 80%, often violently. Any kind of discussion is dangerous to them.  That's our allies!   Hah more like convenient. Current middle east war proves that. Saudis have been supporting ISIL while the Iranians are on our 'side' against it. Fucking Shia-Sunni schism. also most of the people that actually attacked us in 9/11 were from SA. not iraq, not iran. How about a little #iamRaifBadawi? #jesuisfuckingtiredofWesternhypocrisy. I know this is a really stupid question, and I may get flak for it, but I am interested to learn so I'm going to ask anyway:

Is there anything that can be done? I understand that their laws are their laws, but could any other government step in and do something to get him out of the situation? It seems crazy to me that one group of people could publicly torture a man for months just because he happened to live on their soil and did something they didn't like, and no one else can step in. 

Again, I'm sorry if this is a really dumb question - I'm not great with international law and I am still learning. Actually I think something can be done. If enough of a stink is kicked up in the west our leaders will put pressure on Saudi leaders to let him go. Remember [this](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mariam_Yahia_Ibrahim_Ishag)?  If he is a Saudi citizen not much can be done unfortunately. If he were a citizen of a first world nation there is a chance that countries embassy could step in and try to help.  [deleted] Help the world get off Oil period
 So, this is related.

Not to compare - but...I believe the person Jesus existed (the way I believe Hercules existed).  

If the stories surrounding Jesus are in any way true and not totally distorted by hearsay and time, it would seem that the reason he was cruxified was because what he was saying and getting people to believe broke the power structure of the pharasees, who were the religious rulers at the time. 

I do not think that there would have been any problem for this man *if* his forum had just been discussing religion, but apparently it was criticising the Imams, and that is why he is being beaten.  This, my friends, is why we do not want a religious government, ever.  They have absolute power apparently. It was true in Jesus' time, it is true now.  Do not think for one second that your religion would be any better.  Becoming one with the governing body kills anything good about a religion. This stuff still amazes me. How can people be so archaic and backwards in 2015? The punishments don't fit the crime, it's extreme to a level beyond description. Having a debate/discussion warrants 10y in prison and beaten every week for that entire time? Think about that. 20 caning sessions. 20. Consisting of about 50 lashes per, totalling 1000. He could possibly die from that alone. And even more pathetic, the judge gave him more whacks and time in jail just for APPEALING the original verdict. How is that justice? Fuck that country's leadership. Its faith based governing. They truly believe their holy book to be right about how to handle people. Its good he wasn't charged as an apostate, death is the punishment there.  This isn't even specific to this link, more of a thought that kind of finally snapped in my head;

Read the title again. Think about it some more. The man is going to be beaten with a rod every week in public. Essentially torture, depending on circumstances. Pretty bad right? 

Tomorrow morning, you may see the title again. And again, you think, "That's bad." Two or three weeks from now, you'll have forgotten he exists. Among the millions of people suffering, and we don't even acknowledge their existence. 

Don't get me wrong, I'm not the bleeding-heart type. I won't remember him either. I read the title, mentally say "damn." and move on. It just kind of bothers me that that's just how things are. I think the worst part is that we have to kind of accept it. 

We can make things better, sure. But they'll never get rid of suffering, and that's just part of it. Just part of how the world works. It's kind of depressing. 

Edit: Guys, I've discovered how gold works. I was gilded for the first time two days ago, and here comes more! So to get gold, all you have to do is get gold! 

Edit2: /u/gashfucker pointed out that my "excited response about the gold" took away from the seriousness of my post. I agree. If anything it further shows how quickly you forget and move on from news like this. Depressing. 

Edit3: Double gilded! Wow! I completely forgot about all other things! (Thanks anonymous gilder, seriously.)

Edit4: Triple Gold. Ya'll are just fucking with me at this point. Knock it off. &lt;3 (Notice you're now tired of my edits, downvoting me for constantly bringing up gold, and forgetting the guy getting caned. Feel bad yet?)

Edit5: Welp. Four. Four gildings. Why? What about any of this is okay? You're paying to give some guy a month of a few extra features on reddit because he said he found something depressing. I hate you all, thank you so much. (Again, you're focusing on me now. Jerk. You guys would suck at The Game.)

Edit6: Stop. Please. This is ridiculous. Five gildings. You know, every time you give me gold, I add another edit. No one wants that. Check the comments, people are mad. They are ready to riot. No one wants another edit. If it keeps going, these edits will fill the entire page, wasting precious internet paper. And here at Dunder Mifflin, we  don't waste any paper. Don't be a Toby, knock it off you generous asshats.

Edit7: See what you've done? You've wasted internet paper. Just to watch the world burn. You're a horrible person. I hope you run out of toilet paper just as the smudges begin to stop. ily.

Edit8: Another fucking gild. Do you have nothing better to do? I bet you play that "don't click the button" game a lot as well, don't you? You just want to see how many times I will add an obnoxious edit to this post. Well, obviously at least 8 times. You guys should see the hater comments. They're fun to read. Fuck you for the gold, my dearest friend.

Edit9: I'm really getting sick of trying to come up with new edits. leave me alone, please. Don't you have something to do? Work? Browse another smaller subreddit? Ah fuck it. Gimme gold and karma. Also, you've forgotten about the guy getting weekly canings again. And you lose The Game again.

Edit10: Yet another gold. Just keep it coming, I'm running a one-man gold train and you just let me. You disgust me, I would hate-fuck all 9 of you, at the same time.

Edit11: Aaaaand again. Aaaaand another edit. Did you think that I wouldn't? That all the hate below is gonna stop it? Nope. This is where the Marine in me comes out, and I feed on the hate. It keeps me warm at night. Thanks for the gold, button-presser. 

Edit12: I now have a full year of gold. Thank you so much, in all seriousness. I'm glad my obnoxious edits amused a few people, and you guys made my day! 

Edit13: To the Marine who gifted me gold; You disgusting fuck. Here's the (newer) EAS song so you can listen and enjoy, whether you're out like me or still bending over for the big green one. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qAJVma63Tv0

Edit14: Some of you assholes don't know when to quit. It's done! Cut it out! Nothing will happen if I get more gold! 

Edit15: Or don't quit, that's fine too. Chicken-fucker. How about giving some gold to the guy below me? Huh? Did you think about that? In all seriousness, thanks, all of you. (and you've forgotten about the caning guy again.)  Your edits make me hate you more than Saudi Arabia.  /r/mildlyinfuriating I think the reason he has 9 gildings is due to his edits. He's practically begging for more. and everyone seems eager to feed...

what is wrong with people "please, stop. Oh you shouldn't have. They love me, they really love me!" Edit 56: someone upvoted me, followed me on Instagram.  In the old days, pre-internet, pre-global news, a comparable "crime" and punishment would take place and you'd be blissfully ignorant.  Which is more depressing?

Whole worlds fucked up.  Always has been, always will be.   Yeah, at least now we know about it thanks to the internet. Which gives us the opportunity to make some changes, because you cannot change something unless you first know it exists.  No no no. It's true that there will always been suffering in the world, but we're living in an age with so much less than normal. Scandinavian countries, some European ones, Canada, parts of the US, New Zealand, communities around the world are embracing values of non violence in a highly sustainable manner. Things will get better. We can hope that the reverse access to information will change it. What I mean is that, thanks to the internet, we have now access to these kind of piece of information. It's disgusting. But what can we do? We can propagate the piece of information that a better world is possible. This is the starting point of the Arab revolutions: they know that their governement was shitty AND they know that there are better governments (not perfect but better). They had hope. They had a revolution. I agree with you completely.  Then again, this guy is receiving this punishment for attempting exactly that (the sharing of information and discussion).  That sort of thing significantly limits the ability to "get the word out".

 While I agree with most of what you said and imprisonment is highly uncalled for, I wanted to show you what a caning looks like because people keep thinking its something out of Django. The guy in the link below is getting 50 lashes.


https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EDz4DyvKn3M you destroyed a perfectly fine comment with shitty gold edits I honestly can't tell if he's fucking with us or not. If not...

&gt;Notice you're now tired of my edits, downvoting me for constantly bringing up gold, and forgetting the guy getting caned. Feel bad yet?)

That moment where I am able to think about two different things at the same time.

These have to be the most neckbearded le euphoric edits I've ever seen.

EDIT: Pretty sure he's just fucking with everyone. Fuck you and your edits. You can send thank you messages to the person who gilded your comment by replying to the notification you got. That way you don't have to edit your comment. Omg Internet gold! Thanks let me update everyone on how much I got andwhen I get it You have *realized* the first noble truth. Realization is quite different then simply factually understanding something, isn't it my friend. This is the meaning of insight, its something you can't simply convey to someone, but in your heart you know that you have *understood* something profound, important and sad. 

There are many other things one can realize, they are quite subtle yet profound. Its like something clicked in your head, but no matter how many times you repeat it to someone, simply factually explaining it will not allow them to understand it like you do, because it comes from deep internal dialogue. This is why those dudes meditate in the mountains for years. Even if you may not have intentionally been doing it, you have been meditating and contemplating upon the impermanence, hollowness and seemingly pointless nature of reality.

People realize this truth in different ways, some people get it through culture shock when they visit a poor country. Some people simply observe an orphan, a dog, or an old person sick or in discomfort, soldiers realize it during war, or after they come home. For Buddha, the ancient story was that he left his palace as a Prince, shielded from his father by literally anything that could be of displeasure. Eventually, he made it out of his massive palace, and he came upon 3 things on the road immediately. First a man who was old, and he realized that men grow old. Second he came upon a sick person, and he realized that people are capable of becoming ill. Thirdly he came upon a dead body, and within these 3 sights and in that moment, he ... just as you have, realized, "the impermanence and ultimate dissatisfactoriness of conditioned existence"

http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Four_Noble_Truths


Dalai Lama on suffering:
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_QvVaZfFDKw

Dalai Lama on happiness:
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JXdhHn8L65o

Dalai Lama on Buddhist Science, Buddhist philosophy, and Buddhist religion.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2P9F29jT7QQ

Free Tibet! What's the second noble truth? Hopefully it's a bit more uplifting. That first noble truth was a bit of a downer! Sorry, I am afraid the second noble truth is that suffering comes from desire.  Use the force? The [Four Noble Truths](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Four_Noble_Truths) work a little something like this.

1. Realize there is a problem
1. Determine the cause of this problem
1. Put an end to the problem
1. Follow a strategy to prevent this problem from popping up again

There are a lot more implications under the scope of Buddhism, and step four turns into something else called the [Noble Eightfold Path](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Noble_Eightfold_Path).  However, this basic framework is extremely effective for almost all levels of problem solving.  I've even seen iterations of it pop up in other places like corporate literature.  Try it today in your own life, and if you're interested in more, visit /r/buddhism.
 What does reborn mean in this context? Samsara translates into a 'sea of suffering', rebirth is one condition or kind of 'trap' of Samsara. Reincarnation is a tough subject, because on the surface it immediately seems crazy.

Buddhists don't believe that the self exists, so you cannot come back as a rabbit, however amusing that may be, because your personality, your little inner dialogue, your 'soul' doesn't really exist. Its just an illusion, its merely a collection of your thoughts, experiences and history. There is no self, its a machine that is always deconstructing in some places, and constructing in other places. Have you ever kind of wondered, what are you? Not your body, not your family, not your job, language, voice, not even your thoughts. When you are thinking about nothing, sitting there and its just kind of......you..what is that little dialogue in your head? The more you think about this, the more you ponder on this, the more you begin to realize that that 'self' the little thing in your mind, doesn't actually exist. Its like a flame, it permeates, but it is *always changing* and is completely impermanent. You may walk through the same river back and forth, but you will never walk through the same water. The same analogy can be made with a wave. Is the wave the water, or the energy that thus moves it? 

With this understanding, you can begin to understand that to be reborn is to wake up that day, it is to walk through a door, it is to smile, to take a step, to drink a cup of coffee. You are, at every waking moment, dying and being reborn because you are not a permanent thing, because you don't even exist. 
 Whoa.  I invite everyone to mentally investigate the prime mover of thought and mental (and physical) phenomena... And to then investigate as to what is doing the investigation.

Don't stop when your mind blows and be all "woah", but delve deeper than that.

When you think "I am", who or what is claiming to be the "I"? Trace that feeling of me/I/myself/etc backwards to its source... What is found may be surprising... This whole thing has been ridiculously interesting. Do you have any suggestions on what I can read for more insight into these teachings/beliefs? 

And the 209 was a long long time ago for me lol First, I see you're from the 209. Me too, hi!


Second, I recommend Alan Watt's book, "The Way of Zen".. it shattered my world and changed my life. The book is more expansive and inclusive, but it follows the type of definition and information you received from the comment you responded to. &gt;Buddhists don't believe that the self exists, so you cannot come back as a rabbit, however amusing that may be, because your personality, your little inner dialogue, your 'soul' doesn't really exist. Its just an illusion, its merely a collection of your thoughts, experiences and history. 

&gt;The more you think about this, the more you ponder on this, the more you begin to realize that that 'self' the little thing in your mind, doesn't actually exist. Its like a flame, it permeates, but it is *always changing* and is completely impermanent.

I never really considered this but it makes perfect sense to me.
 I'm glad you mentioned this (first comment ever on reddit here from a lurker because of you). This is completely related to how for the past 4 years I've become more cynical, skeptical, and numbed due to my true inability to prevent all these terrible things from happening.  And not just for events that happen abroad. In the US I'm demotivated by our governments inability to be more effective. I only have candidate red or blue to choose from and no measurable way to truly contribute to my country's legislation. 

Then a few weeks ago I was reading a blog (doesn't matter which) where the writer said 'you get the government you deserve'. And then, I thought maybe 'I get the world I deserve', too.  Here I was complaining about how shitty the world is, how shitty our government is, and realized I deserve it. I haven't been voting, haven't been donating, haven't even fucking commented on reddit so as to contribute to arguably the best community in the world. I am only consuming. That's all I've been.

So, now what? Now, I'm going to earn the right to be pissed. I don't get to complain about my local news until I start voting, volunteering, and becoming an active participant. I don't get to share my disgust for atrocities committed overseas or even contribute my ideas for how it needs to be fixed to my co-worker or friend who merely nods and forgets. I don't get this privilege until I am making my own specific contribution and positive impact, no matter the size. I may have a small or no effect, but at least I'll have every right to be pissed off next time I hear about something like this.

Tldr; No more looking at cat photos on reddit until I contribute some of my own. You disgust me with your self-aggrandizing edits that ruined a great post.  yup.

it's either extremely lucky or unlucky that nobody has the kind of power to end all suffering by just ending existence. would it be the right thing to make it all stop? or does the joy of some outweigh the pain of others?

not saying this guy's life won't still have redeeming qualities, but i'm talking more about that universal scale you're alluding to, the fact that there are *many* people that really, really suffer Aaand the edits.  And suddenly I'm ready to end this day with sleep.

I feel the same way about every other piece of news we hear about our (US) gov. fucking up.  I agree.  Gimme' a cigarette. I'll have the same, but with lemon. Water is wet. the reddit gold overshadows the original sentiment of your post  Seven fucking gold edits. Fuck off. Every week for the next 20 weeks, this guys scars will be reopened by the caning. He will be in pain for the next 20 weeks. He will be horrifically scarred for life. And on top of that 10 years in jail. That fucking blows.  Canings. He will be hurting for more than 20 weeks, unfortunately. autistic attention whore Ok I thought we were Charlie Hebdo, but this motherfucker... Why the hell are the schadenfreude videos of people being caned the top comment, and not a link to the petition? 

http://www.amnesty.org.au/action/action/36113/?utm_source=news.com.au&amp;utm_medium=online&amp;utm_campaign=W4R_556 If this happened in fascist Germany or the Soviet Union we would put it down to how potentially scary political ideology can become. Instead, we just think of religion and consider them backward.

Why is it religious states are given such an easier time by the West? We all talk about North Korea like it's some dystopian shithole similar to what authors love churning out. Yet if North Korea swapped their totalitarian dictatorship for some kind of religious scripture and continued what they were doing now, we wouldn't give a shit. If you want to know why Middle East is so backwards, this is why. Completely backwards and barbaric religious and social viewpoints can only survive if you are not allowed to discuss or think about them. The use of force by secular and religious authoritarian regimes in the region prevent any kind of public discussion or analysis of society. If you want to know why for instance, in Pakistan preachers can denounce someone on a loud speaker and gather up a mob to go and kill someone for blasphemy this is why.  Its hard to think this is the same place people go to on holiday and absolutely rave about

'Its so clean and so big and modern and amazing'

Yes because it was built by modern slaves and the people that populate it are still backward animals 
 People can't go on holiday to Saudi Arabia unless you are going to Mecca for religious reasons. The only other reason for going to KSA would be for business. You must be thinking of UAE?   Saudi here. Who the fuck comes to Saudi for the holidays? Any kind of entertainment or amusement is illegal and Haram here. Sounds like you're thinking of Dubai, which is in the United Arab Emirates and very close to Saudi Arabia. Never heard of people going to Saudi Arabia on Holiday. Nothing does a better job of insulting Islam than the people most publicly practicing it and applying it to others. This type of horrendous abuse acts as further proof to me that many of the inhumane practices associated with Islam (like female genital mutilation and stoning) are more a cultural phenomenon rather than a religious one. Stoning was also practiced by Hebrews as it was probably by most people in that area at the time. Or so I suppose. Of course, religion and cultural identity are often so intertwined it's hard to tell which influenced which.
Anyhow, it's a sad, sad reality such things are still part of everyday life in so many societies, Islamic, Christian or other. 
So sad.  It shouldn't surprise people. Saudi Arabia is the wealthiest shit hole in the world. I really feel this is why we need  to get religion out of morality. It's ironic that Saudi denounced the radical Islamists who perpetrated the Charlie Hebdo massacre yet they do radical Islamist crap themselves. Barbarians, all of them. Oh no, not Saudi Man! How will we get out of this one Arab Boy? Every week or so some islamist country does something extraordinarily stupid based off of religion. These idiots are one of the most wealthy people on Earth just because everytime you poke somewhere with a shtick oil bursts out from the ground... I can't wait Tesla to be accepted as the next step in transportation (air, ground, heck even water) so these assholes can run out of money and eat shit.   Anybody else notice a lack of coverage by the U.S. Media? Ssshhhhhhhh~! We don't talk about ***our*** friends. /jk And the world turns a blind eye - because oil.

I think someone should create a new hashtag campaign, that'll teach 'em! Medieval. That's bullshit. 'Weekly public canings'.

What the fuck is wrong with this country? I mean, the ten years is ridiculous, but the kinky bit just really makes you wonder. . .  And the irony lies with the Saudi representative who stood side by side with the presidents and prime ministers who were calling for free speech and all that in France a couple of days ago.  Protest this. Be offensive about it. Do not let yourself fool by anyone saying it's an internal affair or a cultural mannerism. Saudi Arabia and neighbouring dictatorships actively spread intolerant Wahabbi ideology throughout the world. Their tyranny does not deserve any respect. American man jailed for life in prison for his dealings in marijuana. The world's a fucked up place. http://www.cnn.com/2014/09/02/opinion/vanita-gupta-marijuana-life-sentence/ &gt; According to Amnesty International, the prosecution had called for him to be tried for apostasy (when a person abandons their religion), which carries the death sentence.

Holy fuck that is harsh.  I knew the religious state was bad, but I didn't realize it was that bad. I hope everyone here realizes that Saudi Arabia has been the US' s favorite mid-eastern country. They often bend at the will of the saudi's, and yet we are at war with a Syrian president whom is "repressive and abusive" to his people, with out question EVER of the mass brutalities committed by SA. Where are those American principles they like to propagate all over the world?   THESE are the ALLIES? Muslim here, this shit is outrageous THIS HAS TO STOP!! Saudi Arabia is a fucking backwards horrible place. That is why we must make sure to never allow sharia law in civilized countries For debate! For discussion! They should have gave him twenty years! I hope they don't see me replying to you. Cause fuck logic, that's why. as expected of a barbaric, backwards-ass country stuck in the stone age Saudi Arabia's government should be the civilized world's and the United States greatest enemy if everything was based on principles. Stone age mentality directed by a book written by a bronze age tribe. Sounds like a good plan. This will never change because the Saudis do not want it too. 

This is not just a freedom of speech issue this is a cultural issue. 
This is the same culture that stopped the distribution of the Charlie Hebdo news paper in Turkey. Political correctness takes priority over truth in many of these countries and because of that free thinking people pay the price ( pay attention western nations). You have to understand that without oil many of these countries would still be in the stone age. 

Without a cultural revolution in these countries created and forced by the people against the government, nothing will change. Your hashtags, tweets, and comments wont change it. Not even the United States bringing "freedom" to them. 

They have to change their world for them selves, the same thing applies to Afghanistan and Iraq. And that's why no matter how much money the Arabians have (including United Arab Emirates). No matter how many skyscraping cities they build. They can never be the center of civilization with those ideologies. And yet, we still call Saudi Arabia our ally, while saying we need to invade other countries for, "Humanitarian," purposes the thing I don't understand is that Saudi is one of US's closest ally and I never see US has issued any bills or formal condemnation of its human rights issue. I think even China's human right is better  Unreal. Middle East should just get blown up Remember this when you bitch about how terrible the U.S. is. Granted it's not perfect but it could be a lot fucking worse.  That's one way to look at it, but if you want to remain even the same, you need to always want it better. Kind of the normal human condition: there is no standing still. If you stand still you're going backwards.  these comments are complete garbage. this is such fucking bullshit lets DO something and try, im not saying we will succeed, but the least, the fucking LEAST we can do for this man is try to do something. The site has a petition. Its not much, petitions mean shit, but its not even at 40k signatures. Sign it. I signed it. Thats literally the least you can do. whats next? call your local representative. Its a non domestic issue, but if it gets enough attention something could be done, start a goddamn whitehouse.org petition, its something. Please can we stop this from happening. Yes, you go and... uh... sign that petition. That'll get em hot. "Oh no, Yusef come look! Quickly my slave, feast your eyes upon this heathen image! By god, its a PETITION! My boy i say gather the cavalry, a petition has been brought forth upon us! Oh the despair! Woe is I!" 

But seriously he's right, we should at least try  We should do a lot of things, but in the end nobody does. But signing a petition is just enough focused inaction to assuage our guilt reflex, so there's that. I guess at least it isn't as sanctimonious as prayer? Realistically what else is there that the average Redditor can do, other than raise awareness? If it really matters to someone they can get a career in public service, or focus on getting a career that allows them the time and money to do volunteer work or other pro bono service. But that requires determination, effort and foresight... And most importantly, dedication to a cause or set of causes that transcends the one hour attention span. Come on guyz, let's get le reddit army together and invade Saudi Arabia and orchestrate a prison break! /s Lol a petition isn't gonna do shit.

If you really wanna do something, boycott Saudi oil.  Get other people to boycott Saudi oil.  Good luck! I scrolled through the comments hoping some one had provided some info on how to help him. But everyone is just joking about it. I'm not educated in theses types of things. I wouldn't know where to even begin to start helping him. But something really needs to happen.  Takes a minute of someone's time, has only positive benefits no matter how small they may be, towards a fucking atrocious issue, why the hell is this not higher. Mostly because it is absolutely pointless except to make you feel like you did something. A large portion of us don't really buy into that sort of thing. If something does happen, feel free to call me out on it, but nothing is going to happen because of a petition. &gt;Petition

America's answer to everything. 

Petitions are fucking useless and they are insulting. It's just like sending a prayer, only you feel like you did something "real". It's ridiculous how the comments that basically says it's okay we do nothing, gets gold, and this amazing, fresh and true comment gets only a few upvotes  Tough shit. I don't even give enough shits to sign the petition. I only give the shits that I do give in hopes of a high def lashing video at some point.  The fuck is a petition supposed to do. Saudi arrested a man and sentenced him to jail for 10 years with 3 months of public beatings because he started a discussion forum. You think they're going to do anything because of an online petition? This country is the epicentre of extreme Islam. The same ideology is behind every extreme group in the world, boko hara, iSis.... 

Btw I'm a Muslim but that of the majority, peaceful who knows what the Saudis are doing..  pathetic  Visit the website and sign the petition. It's the least you can do. **[Sign the Amnesty petition here](http://www.amnesty.org.au/action/action/36113/)** Whats the point.. honestly..
 Because exposure helps. Plus, it takes about 30 seconds, so why not? Forgive me, I am becoming too cynical Yeah and the other day I saw a video of some lady getting casually executed on the side walk for adultery. ITT: it's America's fault other countries act like assholes.  Anything we can do to destroy the Saudi government and wahhabis can only benefit the world. These camel fuckers gave birth to Al Qaeda and ISIS. Their time is coming, esp after we release the rest of the 9-11 report that basically implicates the Sauds for the attacks.  Removing the Saudi government will probably give cunts like ISIS an opportunity to seize power. I want to disagree with you, but after seeing the results of the Arab Spring I would have a tough time putting a solid argument together. Religion and "faith" are single handedly the biggest setback humankind has ever suffered. I had friends who worked in Saudi and I visited them a couple of times. While I was in Riyadh there were several public executions, officially titled 'punishment by the sword'. The beheadings were held in Deera Square, locally known as Chop Chop Square. There had recently been a bit of a campaign in the international press highlighting the barbarity of Saudi 'justice' so in an apparent attempt to appease the international community it was decided to drain six pints of blood before executing the prisoners so it was less messy. This method didn't prove very popular as it was a bit of dud entertainment wise, and only half the crowd turned up for the next one. They soon reverted back.  

**Edit:** We did attempt to go to one but were caught up in traffic around prayer time - one of the few instances Saudi's don't have to pray is if they're driving, the roads are always gridlocked around prayer time with guys just driving around, windows down, listening to shyte music. 

  seems relevant: http://news.bbc.co.uk/2/hi/middle_east/2966790.stm Meanwhile, on a typical [day](http://www.liveleak.com/view?i=550_1421270303) in Saudi Arabia From the descrition "swift Justice of What Appears to be a Saudi Woman Caught and Previously Convicted of Torturing and Murdering her Husbands 7 year old Daughter" Martin Sonneborn, former editor in chief for the Titanic Magazine, who now runs a satirical party in the European Parliament put it quite nicely:

"This is not funny. Filing complaints, cancelling your subscription or shooting assault rifles to react to Satire is not the appropriate way within the scene. Our compassion goes to our french colleagues. However something like this could not have happened at Titanic,  we're only 6 editors."

Edit: Oh somebody posted that already, anyways enjoy my own translation. &gt;we're only 6 editors.  
  
So dark, but so good he definitely has his way with words So the Germans do have humour. Well hidden sarcasm mostly. Titanic is a bit more obvious in that regard. [And here's what they put on their website (in German).](http://www.titanic-magazin.de/news/liveticker-in-eigener-sache-7002/)

Some translated points from it: "Terror advice: At 4pm we will have a meeting with other newspapers, opportunity for you to kill everyone of the lying German press. There will be sandwiches afterwards". Also some drawings by newspapers-cartoonists as reaction: [(stolen from this WP-Article)](http://www.washingtonpost.com/news/comic-riffs/wp/2015/01/07/cartoonists-react-to-charlie-hebdo-massacre-in-paris/?tid=sm_fb)

[Australian cartoonist David Pope](https://twitter.com/davpope/status/552844593046097920/photo/1)

[Dutch cartoonist Joep Bertrams](https://twitter.com/joepbertrams/status/552822895106613248/photo/1)

[French graphic designer Jean Jullien](https://twitter.com/jean_jullien/status/552829637215408128/photo/1)

[American cartoonist Macleod](https://twitter.com/MacLtoons/status/552848747898478592/photo/1)

[Indian cartoonist Satish Acharya](https://twitter.com/satishacharya/status/552834559297867778/photo/1)

[Argentinian Bernardo Erlich ("The world has become so serious that humour is a dangerous profession")](https://twitter.com/berlich/status/552809548629934080/photo/1)

[Ruben Oppenheimer](https://twitter.com/RLOppenheimer/status/552848047089405952/photo/1)

[El jueves ("Bad times for humour")](https://twitter.com/eljueves/status/552799582640672768)

[Cyprien](https://twitter.com/MonsieurDream/status/552831150134415360/photo/1)

[Mamount](https://twitter.com/maumontmaumont/status/552791044795138049/photo/1)

[Ann Telnaes](https://twitter.com/AnupKaphle/status/552855217314992130/photo/1)

[Loc Scheresse](https://twitter.com/loicsecheresse/status/552825640354054145/photo/1)

[Boulet](https://twitter.com/Bouletcorp/status/552846084691996672/photo/1)

[Oriol Malet](https://twitter.com/OriolMalet/status/552841675077595137/photo/1)

[Malaimagen](https://twitter.com/malaimagen/status/552845731967803392/photo/1)

[Ygreck](https://twitter.com/ygreck/status/552838573763100673/photo/1)

[Tommy dessine](https://twitter.com/Tommydessine/status/552831294217134080/photo/1)

[Tom Toles](https://twitter.com/PostOpinions/status/552901929194754049/photo/1)

[Dave Brown](https://twitter.com/Independent/status/552877342394433536/photo/1)

[Carlos Latuff](https://twitter.com/LatuffCartoons/status/552847548776742914/photo/1)

[Berliner Zeitung](https://twitter.com/BLZonline/status/552862211866365953/photo/1)

Edit: Added some more
 Cover of tomorrows "Berliner Kurrier": https://pbs.twimg.com/media/B6wymWdIAAAsqtY.jpg

"No! You can't kill our freedom!" 

EDIT: Backround of Germanys biggest News show today: https://pbs.twimg.com/media/B6xwkViCEAAgCul.jpg:large

And:

BZ (Berlins biggest Newspaper) with an outstanding cover for tomorrow:

https://pbs.twimg.com/media/B6xq3MUCAAA7ulV.jpg:large

The text means:

"We mourn for our colleagues of the Parisian satire magazine, who were killed, because they fought against every type of fanaticism without fear. Their bravest covers shell be the front page of our newspaper. Because: You can't shot freedom." Is that true? Oh boy, it would be great! God I hope so. And I hope more and more publications come out featuring Mohammed. It has to be made a completely lost cause trying to stop people drawing him. It has to be made abundantly clear that in today's age, not millennia ago, you cannot threaten to kill or actually kill people for drawing cartoons of anyone. 

Anyone at all.

It has to get to the point where they realise they're outnumbered. It's the world against them, that their insane tactics are utterly that, insane. That we live in a world where people should be able to express their opinions and then argue those opinions and not fear for their well-being over it.

That someone can be SO INSECURE in their belief that they can't handle there being cartoons of their idol is so very, very sad.

[Oh no! Jesus is pissing](http://2.bp.blogspot.com/_d3Lep9RjFNg/SODRI_twG5I/AAAAAAAAAaI/X42yi70GE58/s1600-h/clang+jesus+wine.jpg)

[Oh look, it's jesus on the cross talking about today](http://www.polyp.org.uk/cartoons/misc/polyp_cartoon_jesus_right_wing.jpg)

[Jesus being a dick](http://omgfunny.files.wordpress.com/2011/04/shutupjesus-teller.jpg)

But man, someone [draws a picture of Mohammed](http://cdn.inquisitr.com/wp-content/uploads/2012/09/mohammed-cartoons-charlie-hebdo-muhammed-cartoons-2012-2.jpg) and people die?

[It's insane that this](http://files.abovetopsecret.com/files/img/gl506b4960.jpg) leads to death.

More of them please... more images of him, more critiquing the mindset of 'make fun of my god and I kill you'... because it can't be allowed to persist.
 yes, it is.

Source: https://twitter.com/BERLINER_KURIER/status/552872489614069760 THIS is what having balls means. To add to that:
Berliner Zeitung: https://twitter.com/blzonline/status/552945675508654080
Tagesspiegel: https://www.facebook.com/tagesspiegel/photos/a.133400461492.115633.59381221492/10152497941651493/?type=1&amp;permPage=1
The Newsstand will go full Mohammed tomorrow.

 All those are great, but (to me) David Pope's one is fantastic, made me laugh and really sad at the same time. Don't know whether I was meant to have laughed. Yes. Defnitely. ...and defiantly. Mourning for the tragically murdered and laughter will help us to heal from this barbaric incident. My thoughts are with all french people who had to suffer through this horrific day.  The Argentinian one is better translated as "The world has become so serious (i.e. lacking in humor) that humor has become a dangerous profession" 

(Just wanted to point out it's not phrased as a question) Historically speaking, humor has always been a dangerous profession.  
Plenty of people have been killed or jailed for making a joke about the wrong people.  
The best humor tends to be based on truth, and a lot of people don't like hearing the truth, or don't want it being spread around.  
 Those cartoonists have the biggest balls I've ever seen.  Respect. As scary as the situation is, the fact they make such a stand, ya those are some mighty hefty balls lol. While it's always certain that a person would never want to die for voicing their opinion it's at least a good sign when you see others stand their ground and don't make their deaths come in vain by backing down from the fear of death.

While their deaths are tragic, they can at least be happy knowing that their are voices out their who will not let the fear of murder silence their voices. I wish I had artistic skills. Or balls.  I have balls, but no artistic skills I have artistic skills, but no balls.  Let's team up! I am in! So he draws the cartoon, and you take the credit for it? The artful one makes the ammo, the ballsy one fires them. Sometimes I think I have artistic balls but that's all. It's tremendous bravery. They just witnessed colleagues murdered for pictures like this. Surely these other cartoonists sat back and reflected on what if it had been their office that was shot up by extremists, their bodies lying dead at some desk. And then they sat down and drew some fucking cartoons. Balls and vaginas made of titanium. It's the way that, independently, they're banding together. "You can't kill us all, and you will never stifle our freedom." 

I have enormous respect for this. They all seem to also know that it's not about insulting Islam for the sake of it - it's about being allowed to be critical.  That dutch one is incredible. Had a tear looking at it  Here is another Dutch one. https://twitter.com/RLOppenheimer/status/552848047089405952/photo/1 And another (Gerrit de Jager): http://i.imgur.com/TevjlXS.jpg For anyone wondering what 'onsterfelijk' at the bottom of the cartoon means; it means 'immortal.' Dank je! I love satire so much. Those who think it doesn't have a place in political and journalistic discourse must take keen notice of its influence, here. I say this because the same people who ignore this, outcast Jon Stewart, or joke off the Onion were likely the same people who spat on people like Charlie Chaplin or Mark Twain at the time. There's truth in satire; the revelation of that truth generally is what makes it (sometimes *sadly*) funny. 

Excuse my rant... Regardless, I admire these people a great deal. Carlos Latuff's one is especially good. And very true. Do those terrorists seriously think that they are helping their religion like this? Fucking idiots. &gt;There will be sandwiches afterwards

halal i presume ;) Kommen Sie auf mich bro! Well google translator did work here.  
In german that'd be translated to "Cum on me bro!"   I love playing pranks on my bros. CHOO CHOO [deleted] I wouldn't use the formal *Sie* in that context, though. The context implies a certain familiarity between the speaker and the adressed, which would be much better expressed by the informal *Du*, which is usually left out when adressing someone in the imperative. Accordingly, *kommen* will have to be changed to the imperative singular, *komm'*, thus: *Komm auf mich*; bro is rather uncommon in German, one could exchange it for the literal translation *Bruder*, brother, but in this case I'd rather use the less formal *Digger* or, in southern Germany, *Alter*. 

Edit: So my pitiful attempt at humour seems to have failed. Looks like I am indeed German...
 &gt;I wouldn't use the formal Sie in that context, 

Very well. Kommen Sie auf mich, *mein herr*. [deleted] &gt; in southern Germany, *Alter*.

Bavarian reporting in, I'd translate "come at me bro" as *Kimm her, Brscherl*, possibly *No geh Brscherl, trau di*. "cum on me bro" is something along the lines of *Geh spritz mi o, Bursch*.  Ah, thanks, I didn't quite know how to translate that properly into Bavarian. 

"*Geh spritz mi o, Bursch.*" I like your dialect. 

Gre aus dem hohen Norden :) As someone from the wild wild west of germany I almost shit my pants laughing when I read that. 10/10 would laugh again. Nein, danke. Aber fr manche vielleicht ein interessantes Angebot, Bruder.  Ham on rye. if you care for a second opinion:

&gt;TERRORHINWEIS: Fr 16 Uhr ist in der TITANIC-Redaktion eine Pressekonferenz angesetzt, bei der RTL, Hessischer Rundfunk, Frankfurter Rundschau und smtliche weitere Privat- und Systemmedien anwesend sind. Fr Terroristen bietet sich hier die Mglichkeit, nicht nur eine Satireredaktion auszulschen, sondern auch die gesamte deutsche Lgenpresse. Es gibt Schnittchen (hinterher)!

"Terror hint: there is a pressconference set to begin at 4pm, at which all media outlets will be present[1]. for terrorists this will present an opportunity to not only eradicate a satirical outlet, but also the entire lying german press. there will be cut sandwiches available (afterwards)" 

TL notes: 

"Schnittchen" is derived from the german word to cut in the cutification form, indicating something small that is cut

[1] : shortened cause i dont think its important to translate all the media outlets/tv stations.

edit: [what i called "cutification form"](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Diminutive#German) For some context, "Lgenpresse" ("these lying press institutions") is a word currently being repeatedly shouted by the anti-Islam activists PEGIDA (who decided to mostly not talk to the press as they believe their view won't get proper neutral representation). [This](https://i.imgur.com/PAMg8Iu.jpg) is Schnittchen. most certainly the fanciest schnittchen I ever laid eyes on
 https://i.imgur.com/8I8QU1R.jpg [Still too fancy](http://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/7/72/Standardmodell_mit_Butter,_Wurst_und_zwei_Scheiben_Brot.jpg) That's a Schnitte and not a Schnittchen. That's not a Schnittchen, that's a Wurschtbrot. I would call it a "Stulle" [this](http://www.torten-taxi-koeln.de/WebRoot/Store15/Shops/61622444/4AD7/7AD8/E347/82CA/2285/C0A8/28BB/3865/belegt_700.jpg) are actually Schnittchen! That "Meet Muslim Singles" ad is well-placed.  The best response: 

[ ] (http://www.wikipedia.org/wiki/molon_labe)  This made me love Germany. Soo... Do you guys finally forgive us for that whole stuff? Y'know the one back in the day Wembley? No the hoff Munich '72? Yeah, it's only the World Cup. No no guys I think he's talking about the *other* thing http://i.imgur.com/TDz0Qux.png

That's the magazine cover they put on their Website today (its from 2006). Its titled "religions compared" and on the bottom right corner it says " please ignite here" Gotta love the Titanic guys. 

That is exactly the right spirit now. Every satirical magazine around the world should do this for next month or longer. 

Teach the extremists an important lesson:

If you use violence, it will make it worse. do you think fanatic extremists are whitty enough to get the hint? Maybe the guys who support them could get it, but the actuall terrorists(the guys who kill and maim) will not get it... You don't have to be very witty to realize that you're being mocked, constantly and around the world, for what you did in retaliation for being mocked once. 

It's like when kids start throwing tantrums at school and all the other kids just laugh at them. Eventually they figure out that tantrums aren't getting them what they want anymore.  As long as someone is getting it, some kind of goal is achieved.

If the guys who support them get it, maybe that means that somebody has not to die in the future because of such reasons. Thats good in my book. And because of that I wrote my previous comment. I really really hope that the satirical magazines around the world unite.

Or, as someone posted, that January 7 will be a worldwide "make fun of mohammad" day, for, lets say a decade or two. With a friendly reminder that islamic extremists are the reason for that. Do we have a Draw Mohhamad day on 20th May or something? I wish Colbert was on so bad right now... &gt; If you use violence, it will make it worse.

The stupid thing is that these cartoons maybe caused a handful of people to view Islam negatively.

However, the acts of violence has made millions of people view Islam in a negative light.  Heh, it's a dick measuring contest. But aren't these muslim extremists the biggest dicks? They're overcompensating. [deleted] It's more a jab at Islamic people having small ones, evidently.  Because that's the most likely way to piss off an extremist. There is also [this!](http://www.titanic-magazin.de/uploads/pics/0103-muslimservice_01.jpg) 

This is a photo of the German parliament (Reichstag) and some other government buildings in Berlin. It says "That's where *our* caricaturists are living". 

Edit: It's from 2010 btw.  [deleted] Wow, I'm not sure even the Onion could get away with this in the U.S. and of course it points at the us embassy :) That is nice, yeah. Martin Sonneborn former Titanic magazine editor in-chief and current European member of parliament posted on Facebook:

&gt; "Das ist nicht komisch. Mit Anzeigen, Abokndigungen oder Kalaschnikow-Geballer auf Satire zu reagieren, gilt in der Szene als unfein. Unser Mitleid gilt den Franz. Kollegen.

Translation:

*"This is not funny. To react to satire with criminal charges, subscription canceling and Kalashnikov fire is considered to be in bad taste in our scenes. Our condolences to the French colleagues"* You forgot this part:

"This could not have happened in the Titanic Office, since we are only six editors"  That's hilarious.  Fuck, that's as dark as it can get. Many German people have a very dark sense of humor. I love it. I just lost it. Germany and Europe is better off thanks to Sonneborn. I don't know whether to laugh or cry. :( &gt; der Szene als unfein. 

then it's perfect satire I might be missing the joke...

Is he saying that 12 people could not have been killed because they are only 6? &gt; former Titanic magazine editor in-chief and current European member of parliament

For those who wonder, he started a party called THE PARTY and actually won a seat in the last european elections. 

He then got everybody mad when he said they would rotate the seat among party members every month, so that all of them would get "a fat slice of the money and pension rights" that MEPs get.  Die **P**ARTEI fuer **A**rbeit, **R**echtsstaat, **T**ierschutz, **E**litenfrderung und basisdemokratische **I**nitiativen

(Badly) Translated: The PARTY for work, constitutional democracy, animal protection, support of elitism and grassroot democracy initiatives. THere's also the legend that he got the World Cup to Germany in 2006 by "faking" the bribery of a FIFA official who became so confused, he abstained during the deciding vote. The proposed "bribe" was a gift basket containing  a Black Forest ham and a Cuckoo clock!

And the New Zealand delegate stated afterwards that he was pressured by various interest groups not to vote for South Africa and that the letter from the Titanic was the final straw that led him to withhold his vote.
His exact words on CNN were: "This final fax broke my neck" After this German tabloid paper BILD published Titanic-Magazines/Sonneborns telephone number and urged their readers to complain which ended up in heavy insults such as "Nestbeschmutzer" ("nest defiler" a term widespread used in Nazi-Germany). Sonneborn recorded the calls and published a CD ["BILD readers insulting Titanic](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yoVE5Q2HBBo)" (German only) This is hilarious!

&gt; Caller: You are all sick in the head!
&gt;
&gt; Sonneborn: You're a doctor?
&gt;
&gt; *Call drops...* This is purest gold. I'm currently listening to the woman who collects signatures to have the Titanic abolished. I can't stop laughing.  And to *"milk the EU like a small south european country"* Probably the best vote I ever made in an election.  Crowd near the French embassy on the paris square in Berlin.  
Europe standing together.  
http://i.imgur.com/2iYzFO0.jpg &gt;*To what extent will the Paris attack influence what you publish about Islamism?*

&gt;Let me reiterate: If these attacks are the work of Islamists, then it makes satire even more relevant. Following such attacks, there should be more satire, and this will be the case for our magazine as well.

&gt;*Even in the face of such violence?*

&gt;Yes.

&gt;Of course, on the personal level, we are scared when we hear about such violence. However, as a satirist, we are beholden to the principle that every human being has the right to be parodied. This should not stop just because of some idiots who go around shooting.

[This is worth 20 minutes of your time....or at least I think so:](http://youtu.be/QIyBZNGH0TY?t=20m15s)

**Edit: Perhaps I'm too late for this, but I'll use whatever time I have left as the bully-pulpit. If you know any Muslims or Arabs, or Persians, or any other Middle-Easterner, try inviting them to dinner if not today, sometime this week.** well worth the 20 minutes. Thank you. I find it hilarious when people are all "Ohh, aren't you scared of violence? Won't you cower in front of the extremists and stop posting harmless caricatures?" "Uhh. No." This might be more apt: "Well, *duh*, we're scared; that's why it is so vitally important that we keep doing it." At this point, every news outlet, every magazine, every newspaper should republish the offending cartoons.  We cannot have extremists intimidate our societies and media such that people become scared posting stuff like this.  

If magazines are being singled out and targeted for posting such cartoons, then every magazine/news outlet need to post them out of solidarity. &gt; At this point, every news outlet, every magazine, every newspaper should republish the offending cartoons.

Not only that, every individual. Create a meme. This is the only repost I would be ok with. Is this subreddit material or is there already one with this frame of mind Just post a picture of Muhammed with a funny caption to /r/adviceanimals .

There is also /r/drawmuhammad  Also, the more you do it, the more you have safety in numbers and the less likely it will be that you get attacked.  And maybe install some trap-doors and sentry guns. &gt; we have found that Muslims, at least in Germany, are quite capable of dealing with this kind of humor

German muslims must be the least funny people in the world and even they can take a fucking joke. 

Fuck you asshole extremists cunts  How many Germans does it take to screw in a lightbulb?

One, they are remarkably efficient and not very funny.  None, german lightbulbs are perfect TIL Germans have developed self screwing light bulbs. Actually, German architecture is so efficient all they do is build the walls and roof of the building, then the building finishes itself. If only this applied to air ports as well. Or concert halls. ^^.____. Where is /u/just_like_my_wife?  Something something efficient German sex. Well first it takes 631 individuals to debate on what the definition of a lightbulb is, send it to the economics minister, have his or her department write a formal brief, send that brief to the Brussels, where it will be debated by the EU parliament, in which there are 96 Germans, 18 Austrians, 6 Luxembourgers, as well as an additional 635 MEPs, who will argue various definitions of a lightbulb based on luminousity and conversion of electricity to light or heat, after debate concludes in standards, the standards law passed by Brussels is left up to the individual EU nationstates to enforce, in which case it goes back to Germany, where the CDU/CSU will claim it is an infringement of national liberties to define a lightbulb so strictly, thus causing another debate in parliament. At which time an engineering, and particularly pedantic German, will introduce an old incandescent bulb but state that it is in fact a heater which happens to generate light; as such the debate continues was to whether "heaters" will be installed or "lights". By this time, Parliament has been reelected, so a new group of MPs must debate this.  
Finally, after 6 years of debate, committee, pedantry, and more debate, a solitary German maintenance man installs 1 Light-emitting-heater-with-an-electrical-conversion-to-light-rate-of-less-than-3%-efficiency-and-excess-energy-is-lost-to-heat.  
  
So, the real answer is 1359 Germans, 18 Austrians, 6 Luxembourgers it takes to install  a single electricity-to-light-and-heat-conversion device. Nah, it's all regulated in the Bundesverfassungsgesetz zum manuellen Wechsel elektrisch getriebener, knstlicher Lichtquellen zur Innenraumbeleuchtung, or BVerfGzmanWeEGKLichtInrBel for short.  I used to work for the EU. This is 100% accurate.  As someone who still works for the EU, actually things are a whole lot more efficient around here than it gets credit for. But yeah, a lot of stupid unnecessary bureaucracy. Your forgot to mention that if it's a public project, it will take at least three times as long as initially projected and cost ten times as much. Once the project is nearing completion, they will find out that the light-emitting-heater actually provides too little light now since requirements have gone up since the inception of the project at which point another project will be started to find a way to extend the heater's lighting performance. This is so 20th century. Let me try a 21st century version:

How many Germans does it take to screw in a lightbulb?

300 to do the R&amp;D on the first one, but then it is automated. Haha as a german I never heard this one before. Definitely going to remember that one. Good jab good jab. Jaja. Ja ja ja, ich bin Lorde. Hey I got that reference and I don't even speak german! I'm German and didn't get that reference... But atleast you're efficient. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=tiwcfA4fNx4 Or, sometimes their humor is just really different.  My old-school, WWII combat-veteran,  German father-in-law had a sense of humor that took a bit of getting used to as an American.  Every Thanksgiving, when he was carving the turkey, he would hold the big carving knife up, point at the blade about 2" back from the tip, look me right in the eye, and in a *very* heavy German accent say "Remember, Vaux1916!  Up to here is friendship!".  Followed by a belly laugh.   German humor is more technical and dry than even British humor.

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yR0lWICH3rY
 oh Which was my reaction the first time I heard that.  He was a really interesting and funny (once you got used to him) guy.  Very intelligent, well-read, world-traveller, and spoke 7 languages.  Juxtaposed to this was his appearance and personality, which made you think of a Viking clan leader.  His children's nickname for him was Hagar the Horrible.  After I married his daughter, he insisted that I called him "Vadder".  He's been gone for a few years now and I miss him.  He really was my "other father". Turks are pretty funny people actually and do satire well. [Here is a Turkish Islamist being offended by cats and a puddle of water](http://www.gazetecell.com/images/upload/20130801-09081679.jpg)

EDIT: [Here](http://www.medyaradar.com/uploads/images/p1%287%29.jpg) is another. The cover for the New Year's edition of *Penguen*:

A guy talking to himself:
"Since we didn't go crazy in 2014, there is still hope right bro?"

"Hah ha, you're right bro."
 Can you give a quick translation for us non Turkish speakers? The gist is that everything the guy looks at reminds him of sex and he is offended by it.

The title is "Who programmed you like this? Honestly your life is hard... "

The man's bubble:
"**6 months pregnant** = had sex 6 months ago; **Park** = Youth = immoral behavior = [zina](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Zina) (girls and boys having group sex); **fruit seller** + eggplants and cucumbers = incitement / rudeness = sex with vegetables; **Cat** = March Sqrt(rut) = sex in public; **empty lighter** = fire/lots of cigarettes/alcohol= **open minded women** = rudeness + alcohol in restaurants = getting high = sex; **Plastic bottle** -&gt; it has a hole = danger / lust = sex; **water puddle** = Turkish bath * rudeness / need to wash after sex = sex"

Note: In Turkey cats are believed to get horny (rut) in March. Not sure if this is true but that is why the guy brings up March ...  &gt;The gist is that everything the guy looks at reminds him of sex and he is offended by it.

&gt;The title is "Who programmed you like this? Honestly your life is hard... "

&gt;The man's bubble:

&gt;"**6 months pregnant** = had sex 6 months ago; 

&gt;**Park** = Youth = immoral behavior = [zina](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Zina) (girls and boys having group sex); 

&gt;**Fruit seller** + eggplants and cucumbers = incitement / rudeness = sex with vegetables; 

&gt;**Cat** = March Sqrt(rut) = sex in public; 

&gt;**Empty lighter** = fire/lots of cigarettes/alcohol= **open minded women** = rudeness + alcohol in restaurants = getting high = sex; 

&gt;**Plastic bottle** -&amp;gt; it has a hole = danger / lust = sex; 

&gt;**Water puddle** = Turkish bath * rudeness / need to wash after sex = sex"

&gt;Note: In Turkey cats are believed to get horny (rut) in March. Not sure if this is true but that is why the guy brings up March ... 

Tried to reformat to make it a bit easier to read. All credits to /u/derkajihad Thanks. I was on the fence about how to format it. I thought I should keep with the bubble format of the cartoon; but now I think this looks better. Small bubble : "It's been 6 months honey, it's been really comfortable..." (Referring to pregnancy)

Large bubble : 

"6 month pregnant = Sexual act 6 months ago...

Park = Youth = Lack of ethics = Adultery (Group 

Sex with men and women)...Grocery Store + Eggplant + Cucumber = 

Incitement^[1] / Rudeness = Sexual acts with objects...

Cat = March (Horneyness^[2] ) = Sexual acts in 

public. Empty lighter = fire / many cigarettes / alcohol = 

Woman without hijab =  Lack of ethics + restaurants with alcohol service = Tipsy^[3]

= Sexual act... Water bottle -&gt; Has a hole = 

dangerous / feeling lust^[4] = Sexual acts...

Puddle = Turkish Bath^[5] X Rudeness / 

Gusl^[6] = Sexual act"

1 : Sexual provocation. Wasn't sure which word to use exactly.

2 : Weird choice of wording. March is cat's season to produce so it references that I assume. 

3 : Probably means slightly being under the effect of alcohol.

4 : Probably used in a similar feeling as being horny.

5 : Hamam is a Turkish tradition. Feel free to google it.

6 : A religious process for cleansing. Whole of the body is cleaned with water.

Holy shit this was hard to translate. Turkish is my mother language but this was really hard to translate. Also didn't really found the caricature to be that funny. It does however a good job of depicting the extremely obsessive nature of some of the very religious people in Turkey. "Fuck cats and shit, yo.  That shit be offensive." &gt; German muslims must be the least funny people in the world...

Thank you. I needed that.

 :) &gt;&gt; German muslims must be the least funny people in the world...

&gt;Thank you. I needed that.

&gt; :|

FTFY

 You know what would be awesome. Tomorrow morning, all french newspapers (or may be all European newspapers) print full page Charlie Hebdo caricatures on front page with the message "Fuck you terrorists". I suggest a big middle finger made out of their caricatures +++After a terrorist attack on the french satire magazine *Charlie Hebdo*, the TITANIC - office reacts with solidarity ("Oh no!") and steadiness ("We'll continue to make fun - right after lunchtime!")+++ UPDATE: First injured individuals report headaches after annoying calls ("Hello, Gamperl from the *Tittlinger Wochenblatt*, do you have a statement for us?") and reading of Facebook-Comments ("You cowards Why didn't YOU get yourself shot?? Too gutless or what?")+++UPDATE: Slowly the opinion solidifies in the office that murder is "not good", and attacks on satire magazines are "uncomfortable". +++TERRORWARNING: At 16, the TITANIC staff has scheduled a press conference, where RTL, Hessischer Rundfunk, Frankfurter Rundschau and all other private and state media will be present. For Terrorists, this is the chance to not only get rid of our team, but also the complete German lying press. There'll be sandwiches, afterwards! Q: Do such critical spoofs on Islam provoke stronger, or more prolific reactions from readers?

A: No, actually not. We have found it's far easier to anger Christians or fans of Michael Schumacher. Schumi fans are very committed, to be fair. They fucking should be committed. Titanic did do a joke about Schumacher after his accident, [printing Niki Lauda's face on their cover with the text "Exclusive First Photo after the Accident - This is how badly it affected Schumi"](http://www.mirror.co.uk/news/world-news/michael-schumacher-latest-news-german-3110645).

I wonder if that Schumacher reference is just a throwaway joke that great comedians come up with in split seconds. I hope he recovers. That ski accident did a lot of damage . People were so pissed when "der postillon" (basically the German onion) posted that Schumi is only a couple of likes away from making a full recovery.

German Humor might be doubtable but German Satire doesn't Rest for anyone. Holy fuck I haven't laughed out loud like that for a while. &gt; German Satire doesn't Rest for anyone.

It's great. We might not have that "normal" humour thing down, but when it comes to dark or self deprecating humour and satire we pretty much got that down to a t.

I love it. As reminder a part of why the fans hate Titanic: 
[Click](http://i.huffpost.com/gen/1601507/thumbs/o-TITANIC-LAUDA-900.jpg) 

"First photo after the crash: That's how bad Schumi's got it"  The online satirical magazine "Der Postillion" writes:

http://www.der-postillon.com/2015/01/anschlag-auf-charlie-hebdo-ganz.html

"Anschlag auf Charlie Hebdo ganz groartig fr Islamisten und Islamhasser"

**Attack on Charlie Hebdo really magnificent for Islamists and people hating Islam** "A not so good day had the large minority of people that want to be left in peace and to have nothing to do with those extreme positions - among them muslims, christians, people of other religions, agnostics and atheists."

This satiric article was a surprisingly tasteful reaction to the tragedy. Maybe because it is actually quite an accurate description of things... &gt;Paris (dpo) - Islamisten und Islamhasser auf der ganzen Welt fhlen sich derzeit angesichts eines furchtbaren Anschlags auf die franzsische Satirezeitschrift Charlie Hebdo mit mindestens 12 Toten einmal mehr in ihrem Weltbild besttigt. Whrend Islamisten vor allem stolz darauf sind, erneut Angst und Schrecken verbreitet zu haben, genieen Islamhasser den perfekten Moment, um in den sozialen Netzwerken gegen Minderheiten und Zuwanderung zu hetzen. Beide Seiten drfen sich auf regen Zulauf freuen.

&gt;"Allah ist gro!", ruft ein IS-Sympathisant (24) aus Bochum, der die Nachricht gerade im Internet gelesen hat und es nicht verstrend findet, dass die Attentter seinem Gott bei Karikaturen das rachschtige Gemt eines jhzornigen Dreijhrigen unterstellen. "Diese Tat wird noch viele weitere Mrtyrer ermutigen und den Unglubigen zeigen, was wir von ihren westlichen Werten halten."

&gt;hnlich zufrieden sind Islamhasser und Rechtspopulisten: "Da sehen diese Gutmenschen endlich, dass der Islam Europa berrollt!", erklrt etwa ein leidenschaftlicher PEGIDA-Demonstrant (33) aus Dresden. "Und dann werde ich auch noch als Nazi beschimpft! Am Montag werden wir jetzt bestimmt noch mehr sein."

&gt;Einen weniger guten Tag hatte heute die berwltigende Mehrheit derjenigen Menschen, die einfach in Frieden leben und nichts mit derartigen Extrempositionen zu tun haben wollen  darunter Muslime, Christen, Anhnger anderer Religionen, Agnostiker und Atheisten.



Paris(dpo) - Islamists and Islam haters all over the world feel vindicated in their world view after the terrible attack on the French satirical magazine Charlie Hebdo with at least 12 casualties. While Islmists all over the world are proud after spreading fear and terror, Islam haters feel the perfect moment to chevvy minoritys and immigration on social networks. Both sides can be happy about a steady growth.

"Allah is great!", yells a IS-supporter (24) from Bochum, who read about it on the internet and does not feel disturbed that the attackers imply the vengeful mind of a hot-tempered thirteen year old in his god in the cartoons. "This act will encourage many more martyr and shot the infidels what we think about their western values."

Similarly happy are the Islam haters and right wing populists: "Here the 'goody two-shoes
' can finally see that the Islam is rolling over Europe", explained a passionate PEGIDA protester (33) from Dresden. "And then people call us Nazis! On Monday we well be even more."

A less pleasant day had the vast majority of people who just wanted to live in peace and don't have anything to do with such extreme positions - including Muslims, Christians, members of other religions, agnostics and atheists.

---------------------

I tried to translate this. Might not be super correct. Does someone know how to translate Gutmenschen?  Indeed. Satirists, for me, are not merely comics. They use humor to shine a light on issues. They make us laugh, uncomfortable with truth, yet more easily able to swallow truth with laughing.

As a Muslim, I have the right to be offended if I don't like something. What I don't have is the right to not be offended. And people who fail to see that are sensitive fools, and if they react with violence then they're dangerous fools.

It is sad that some died merely utilising the same right that people of faith or no faith have in democratic nations to live and speak freely.

A satirist knows if he's doing the right thing when he ruffles the right feathers.

I don't like my Prophet mocked, but I accept with no reservations that the right of me believing in him is the same right for another to mock him. I may choose not to read their magazines in those issues. 

Today was an injustice. During injustice there is a need for a few brave men and women to stand up even at risk to themselves, and I hope satirists are not silenced. 

Sometimes I look at the world and only have despair. &gt;I don't like my Prophet mocked, but I accept with no reservations that the right of me believing in him is the same right for another to mock him. I may choose not to read their magazines in those issues


Well said. 

 Well said.  I'm also wondering how Private Eye in the UK will respond. Can't let the Germans one up them  Maybe this will start a satire cartoon arms race? WWH: World War Humor French Cartoonist Charb in 2012: "I prefer to die standing than to live on my knees."" Heart of the issue:

"So what's the issue? There are two issues being conflated in this, and every other Muhammad Cartoon fiasco. Is the problem depiction of Muhammad or criticism of Muhammad? They are being treated like they are the same thing, but they aren't. If Muslims are offended by Muhammad cartoons because Muhammad should not be depicted in Islam than we should really be addressing the historical frieze of Prophet Muhammad on the North Wall of the U.S. Supreme Court. There's also countless works of art throughout Islamic History that we need to answer for. It also raises the question why there was no controversy when South Park first debuted the Muhammad character in July 2001 as a member of "The Super Best Friends," a superhero team of religious figures who fight evil (except for Buddha, who doesn't believe in evil).

The fact, is none of the prophets should be depicted in Islam. So, in theory, Revolution Muslim should have been sending threats the first time Jesus appeared on South Park years ago. In fact, Muslims should have stood along side Christians offended by Andres Serrano's Piss Christ and Chris Ofili's depiction of the Virgin Mary covered in elephant dung. Did they? Islamically speaking it goes beyond prophets. No living things are supposed to be depicted. Islam is an aniconic religion. So in reality, if the issue is a religious objection to depiction, Muslims should be objecting to every cartoon everywhere. It seems like hypocrisy to play favorites with our outrage. So, something else must be going on here.

So maybe it's about protecting the Prophet from criticism, as the South Park episode suggests. Muhammad is simultaneously the most beloved and the more reviled figure in history. So, let's not pretend that that's insignificant. It is more socially acceptable to say slanderous and defamatory things about Muhammad and Islam than any other religious tradition. I'm not just talking about mockery and satire, I'm talking about real substantive hate speech. I live in a society where political figures like Tom Tancredo are cheered for suggesting we drop a nuclear bomb on Mecca. Where Harvard professors like Martin Kramer advocate starving the Palestinian people to stop them from procreating. Where bloggers like Robert Spencer who practically regard my religion as a satanic cult are regarded as experts on Islam. I think this is a social issue, not a legal issue, but let's not pretend that Prophet Muhammad is not open to criticism.

So, what's going on here? If it's not depiction and it's not criticism what is it? The genius of South Park is that they were able to strike the root of the matter by isolating the variable. They never actually depicted the Prophet. It turns out that it was Santa Clause in the bear suit the whole time. And every image of Muhammad was censored. They also never actually criticized the Prophet. In the episode he's something of a heroic figure who saves the town. He's treated respectfully. He's not insulted, or defamed. In fact, his only role in the show is to be in high demand. The most offensive thing in episode, in my mind, was Buddha snorting cocaine. And yet Revolution Muslim still lept to the defense of Muhammad. Why?

To me it is now clear that it's not about Muhammad at all. Defending Muhammad is just a cloak of religious sanction these Muslims use to legitimize their behavior. Trey Parker and Matt Stone laid the trap, and Revolution Muslim jumped in. This episode was not a criticism of Muhammad, or a criticism of Islam, it was a criticism of the behavior of some Muslims. It was a punch in the ego of those Muslims who who use intimidation and fear to impose their will on others. I am certain that this is what Kyle's final speech would have explained..."

- Davi Barker, SF Muslim writing for Examiner.com Meanwhile The Telegraph is even censoring the cover of Charlie Hebdo

https://twitter.com/J_Bloodworth/status/552803792618799106

That's the sad state of things now... the terrorists are winning... So much for Churchill's words about never surrendering, eh Telegraph? And telegraph blurs out the satircal cartoons in it's article... bravo UK. "This could not have happened in the Titanic Office, since we are only six editors" 
- Head Editor of the Titanic Magazin Now the newspapers of the world could send the strongest signal ever to the extremists and terrorists. Tomorrow! Every major newspaper in the world puts mohammed cartoons on their cover page under the headline: We Stand United for Press Freedom and Charlie Hebdo!

Do you hear me? FAZ, New York Times, The Guardian, Hrriyet... I'd like to see 7th January become an international "Draw the Prophet" day. 20th May is already Draw Mohammed day, at least in Denmark, but I guess we can have two. Looks like a Streisand-ing is in order. [Pfffft hahaha...](http://m.imgur.com/vPRsVnB) *Meet muslim singles!*  
*Buy your explosives here!*  
*One simple trick that will make your explosions larger!*  
*Policemen HATE this guy! Find out how this islamist bombed 10 schools without getting busted!* **Whole translation (sorry if there are any mistakes, my english is not the best):**

+++After the attack on the french satire magazine charlie hebdo, the editorial office of the titanic is reacting with solidarity ("oh dear!") and steadyness ("we're gonna keep on making jokes - right after lunch") +++ UPDATE: first maimed people are to be deplored, headache after annoying phone calls ("hello, here is gamperl from the tittlinger weekly newspaper, would you like to make a statement for us?") and reading facebook comments (why didn't you cowards let them shoot you?? You guys are just too fig, arent you?") +++ UPDATE: slowly but shurely a opinion solidifies inside the editorial departement, that murder "rather wasnt nice", and attacks on the satire magazine would be "unpleasant". +++ 
TERROR HINT: there is a pressconference set to begin at 4pm, at which all media outlets will be present. for terrorists this will present an opportunity to not only eradicate a satirical outlet, but also the entire lying german press. there will be cut sandwiches available (afterwards). +++

(i copied the last part from /u/derberauner , it was a good translation and i hope you arent mad that i "stole" your translation :D) &gt;Do such critical spoofs on Islam provoke stronger, or more prolific reactions from readers?

&gt;No, actually not. We have found it's far easier to anger Christians or fans of Michael Schumacher.

I like this guy. So sassy. *"Until the reports can be confirmed, it remains speculation, and I would certainly hesitate to say anything for certain."*

That's journalism. Everyone else ***(cough, Fox CNNews)*** take notes I'm so happy to see how much the rest of the world cares about this. For the first time I don't feel like I'm living in France, I feel like I'm living in the world
 I think they fucking keep satirizing themselves. Committing military assets to go after cartoonists. It's a completely ludicrous tactic(if it can even be called a tactic) and shows their mental infantilism more than anything else. Humanity has nothing to fear from these weak-minded cowards.

 Once again, the Germans are waking up!  Good on ya, Deutschland! Yeah it's really good to see things like this in contrast to the Pegida-Movement. We need to be proud of our own  values instead, not respond with more hate to hate. Love the Titanic for this. Let me argue this, though. Islamist fundamentalists don't give a shit about the wittiness of a cartoon or any other form of satire. What they need is any hint of mocking their religion to have a justification in _their_ terms. 
You could say that they want exactly this: to provoke a reaction, justify more attacks and therefore trigger a full fledged war in European cities. They want war and they just yearn for any reason a liberal society could give them to provoke a violent conflict.
There is a lot of contradictions if you think about how to act upon this. But there is really no other way than to display the act of a liberal, open society, especially in times like this: freedom of expression and solidarity. Satire has been used for hundreds of years to deal with controversial subjects. Some of the most famous philosophers of the 17th and 18th century used lewd cartoons and satirical messages to get there point across. Sadly they were met with violence just as these people were today. 

Violence has never before stopped satire however, and i think the people who killed these cartoonists will see that. Instead of stopping one messenger they have created hundreds or thousands more who will make their work seen in defiance of today's cowardice.  Jesus, the Prophet Muhammad, Buddha, and 3 other religious figures of your choosing walk into a bar.  They all start making out with eachother. Because it was a Gay Bar. What the fuck did you just fucking say about Muhammed, you little shit? Ill have you know I graduated top of my class in the Muslim Brotherhood, and Ive been involved in numerous secret suicide bombings on infidels, and I have over 300 confirmed suicides. I am trained in gorilla warfare and Im the top suicide bomber in the entire ISIS armed forces. You are nothing to me but just another infidel. I will wipe you the fuck out with explosives the likes of which has never been seen before on this Earth, mark my fucking words. You think you can get away with saying humorous satire to me over the Internet? Think again, fucker. As we speak I am contacting my secret network of extremists across the Middle East and your twitter geotags are being traced right now so you better prepare for the jihad, infidel. The jihad that wipes out the pathetic little thing you call your life. Youre fucking dead, infidel. I can be anywhere, anytime, and I can suicide bomb you in seven hundred different ways and that's with my bare turban. Not only am I extensively trained in firing guns in the air, but I have access to the entire arsenal of ISIS and I will use it to its full extent to wipe your miserable ass off the face of the continent, you little shit. If only you could have known what holy retribution your little clever satire was about to bring down upon you, maybe you would have held your fucking tongue. But you couldnt, you didnt, and now youre paying the price, you goddamn idiot. I will shit fury all over you and you will drown in it. Youre fucking dead, infidel. Anyone want to draw a cartoon of Jesus, John smith and Mohamed in straight jackets all claiming to be prophets of God. I will up vote 

Edit: homeless on street corners holding signs will work too Don't downgrade the homeless people.
 Don't forget Michael Schumacher.  How about a cartoon of John Smith, Muhammad and Jimmy Saville visiting a childrens' hospital.

Edit: fixed plural possessive apostrophe. BTW, spoilers if you don't know, they are all pedos. The big difference is that people stopped making apologies for one of them. John Smith would have been sexually molesting them.
 It's scarier to ride in a plane full of bombs  on your way to bomb Dresden underneath another plane full of bombs that is also aiming for Dresden.

Every single newspaper should make fun of the intolerance and simplicity of these terrorists. 
To hell with you, you is-lame radicals. Your God is a cow. MOOOO MOOOO MOO-HAMED. I'm milking moohamed right now! I'm drinking his milk! 
COME GET ME. + 1 for Dresden-related joke :D Fellow saxonian here? I don't play the Saxo. Good.

I'm hoping Charle Hebdo can manage to get some saucy satire out for tomorrow. We all know what you're supposed to do when you fall off a horse. &gt; I'm hoping Charle Hebdo can manage to get some saucy satire out for tomorrow. 

While I understand and support what you're saying, you understand that their entire editorial team is dead, right? There's literally no-one to do it.

If that banner of freedom is to be taken up, it will have to be done by someone else, at least in the short term. I mean, there's surely someone left on their payroll who can doodle a cartoon of Mohammed. and then come up with a clever-ish caption and post it online.

at least, I hope. because half-assing it should be their legacy?  They are all dead, kind of.  Except the one who let them in.
 Beep boop. I said kind of, ten people died at the newspapers office, including the four main cartoonists. Despite being very notorious, Charlie Hebdo was a small newspaper. 

Now there are people left. But Charb, Cabu and Wolinsky easily accounted for more than half of the magazine's content. "Falling off a horse" is putting it mildly is what I'm saying.  ^^^^^This ^^^^^is ^^^^^what ^^^^^I ^^^^^get ^^^^^for ^^^^^not ^^^^^reading ^^^^^the ^^^^^article. Shoot the horse and then eat it? That'd be amazing. Sends a great message too. Gotta love that the first sentence in the top post in r/islam is "insulting the prophet is wrong" as much as they claim to denounce radicalism and violence they still find it in themselves to defend murderers before even shedding a single tear for 12 innocent people. https://i.imgur.com/NQXQ7RV.jpg No, it's not.

http://i.imgur.com/geE9hz3.png Where did you get that they were defending the attackers from that statement? Their prophet is sacred to them and, despite what the rest of us believe, the onslaught of satire specifically attacking Islam right now is offensive to them. I'm not saying the murderers were justified but of course those of the Muslim-faith are going to be upset about the racism and offensive posts about Mohammed arising from this situation. It's all the attackers fault that this all happened but people have the right to be offended. Insulting your religious faith isn't wrong for an outsider. That's the point I'm making. People who never agreed to this insane code of conduct are under no obligation to not draw Mohammed. Muslims seem to think that everyone is bound by their holy laws.  Do you see how it's far beyond just the drawing? It's always provocative and MEANT to be controversial. Replace the image with Jesus or any other religious deity and it's still just as offensive to their respective groups.  No; it's not. South Park made an episode shitting on all the religious deities they could find and the only people who complained (death threats, to be more precise) were Muslims. Jesus was fucking fingering someone and doing crack. I watched it with Christians and they laughed.  Not currently. The current top, non-stickied post has to do with nonviolence.

http://www.reddit.com/r/islam/comments/2rmiy6/side_by_side/ I am trying really really hard not the generalize my disdain for these actions, and those like them, towards all muslims.

But I have to say, in this day and age **YOUR** religion has a **SERIOUS** damn problem and its **YOU** who has to do something about it.

I am not ignorant, many other religions have faced similar problems in their past... even in the present. But something about your faith has been corrupted to the point where it being used everyday to justify violence on a scale that I have never seen, nor I believe the world has seen in a very long time...

I believe there are many people out there, like myself, who are doing their best to focus their anger towards the minority in your religion... but it is simply a matter of time before our anger justifiably spreads towards your entire faith. Please, do something... fix this... before its to late.
 Well said and I feel much the same. If these people had but a shred of faith or piety for their religion, such inconsequential things would have no power over them. The moderate Muslims need to get their house straight, or we'll do it for them. It won't be pretty. [deleted] Redacteurs = Editors. http://www.dict.cc/?s=Redakteur The Weed And The Flower

"In a small section of the garden a tiny weed spoke to the blooms that grew there. 'Why,' he asked, 'does the gardener
seek to kill me? Do I not have a right to life? Are my leaves not green, as yours are? Is it too much to ask that I be
allowed to grow and see the sun?' The blooms pondered on this, and decided to ask the gardener to spare the weed. He
did so. Day by day the weed grew, stronger and stronger, taller and taller, its leaves covering the other plants, its
roots spreading. One by one the flowers died, until only a rose was left. It gazed up at the enormous weed and asked:
'Why do you seek to kill me? Do I not have a right to life? Are my leaves not green, as yours? Is it too much to ask
that I be allowed to grow and see the sun?'
'Yes, it is too much to ask,' said the weed."
Chapter vii, The Wisdom of the Deacon.
(From "Bloodstone" by David Gemmell) Moral of the story:
Weed is bad, m'kay. Very good.  

What I don't understand about a Islamic extremist who believes he is doing Allah's will, is that they don't really leave things up to Allah.  If they did, they would simply waltz up to the meeting, guns at the ready, and expect Allah to protect them from the police that will inevitably be there, or accept the fact that Allah wanted them to die in the attack.

This issue is present in almost any offensive action done in the name of one's religion, whether starting a war or shooting up a magazine's office. Or they'd say "If Allah hates these caricatures that much he'll burn the caricaturists himself, I'll sit here and be a productive member of society until then"

But that would be if they were normal muslims and not extremist idiots. "How weak must your faith in God be if you think God needs you to defend Him, you insignificant little man?"
-Reza Aslan I love this quote, and it is very true. The people who feel the most need to defend their religion, are the ones with the least faith in it. [Source](https://twitter.com/rezaaslan/status/552876650614882305) &gt; But that would be if they were normal muslims ~~and not extremist idiots.~~ &gt;Islamic extremist who believes he is doing Allah's will, is that they don't really leave things up to Allah.     

I imagine it's a mix of simply enjoying the hatred and violence that you can commit and feel completely absolved of any introspection or guilt by stating you aren't breaking and Sharia laws and it's the will of Allah anyways! &gt; accept the fact that Allah wanted them to die in the attack.

This is what they believe. The rewards for being a martyr are pretty impressive.  *alleged* rewards Which is why the gunmen ran away. That's OP's entire point of irony. That's the thing.  If they survive they can continue to do Allah's will.  However if they die, they still die martyrs having completed what they set out to do.

They figure they win either way. Muslims are not allowed to draw pictures of their prophet, but a non Muslim can do whatever he wants with a pencil. These two guys are idiots &gt; What I don't understand about a Islamic extremist who believes he is doing Allah's will, is that they don't really leave things up to Allah.

I don't want to start a "Christians are bad too" argument, but it's kind of like in this stupid joke where the vet punches the atheist professor who dares god to smite him if he exists.

*If* they're really that religiously zealot (which I don't think btw.) they follow their god and want to serve him. This means showing their devotion through action, like fighting "in his name" or ~~killing~~ brutally murdering innocents "in his name". They dedicate their actions to their god.

I think you have to be on a whole different level of either desperation or fanaticism or a combination of both to willingly become a martyr though.

For one of the more self-preserving kind it makes more sense to attack and quickly retreat with as little losses as possible because then you can continue your bloodshed on another day. You are trying to apply rational thinking to irrational acts...that's why it makes no sense to you.

I look at all religions like that because I'm agnostic - it's all nonsense.  Burning bush? 40 years roaming? Imaginary dude in the sky?

That's why religious extremism (really extremism of any kind) is so terrible...you can't reason with them. This is an argument that no religious person could be swayed by, and that is too trite to be worth bringing up among non-religious people.

I'm not religious, so I'm not arguing because I take personal offense, but because I disagree.

Religious people don't automatically believe in testing God or relying on him to perform miracles; often they believe they are God's instruments, and they carry out his will.

You can certainly ask why; if God could do it, why have a human do it? Buy that same flaw is inherent in religion from the start. Why did God create people? He doesn't need anything we could offer.

To convince a religious person of this argument is to dissuade them from belief in general. If they believe, then it is no less reasonable to believe they are called to action.

Stories and jokes like this one are often told in church: http://epistle.us/inspiration/godwillsaveme.html

And many religious folk love to say that God helps those who help themselves.

It's the same idea. Yeah, killing in defense of God makes no sense, but the flaws in the reasoning are the flaws that allow religious belief in the first place. The same could be said for a deterministic world-view, basically one that says that there is no free will because our brains are running by the laws of nature and there is only ONE possible outcome for each chemical process. By that logic, any will to do anything would be pointless because THERE IS NO WILL, so why  bother doing anything, things are just gonna happen in a specific fashion and we can't help it.

I believe that. Technically there is no free will, but it's not exactly a healthy attitude to always be like:"Welp, can't help it". 

That is actually the one (pretty big) upside that I see in faith in general: Believing in stuff gives your existence meaning and direction. 


Other than that, most gods are cruel. the christian one demanded from a father to kill his son, if i may remind you. let's not even start with the greek ones. Number of Jihadis who care about the intellectual argument against radicalism: 0 Normally I try to be civil and non-offensive, but I am sick and tired of all these Muslims shooting/killing/beheading people. They think they are entitled to control the world and every person in it and if somebody doesn't agree, they literally kill them.

What makes it even worse is that *entire countries* have laws based on Islam, and even have laws making it *legal to kill* people based on rules found in Islam.

It is utterly barbaric.

I'm sorry if this offends anybody who is Muslim, but even if you are peaceful and a nice person, you have so many other people in your religion that use it as an excuse to literally kill other people and it makes the religion in general **terrible**

 I am  Muslim (kinda) and what you have said is true.

I just told my mother about this whole incident and this is her response;

"Stupid people will do stupid things, thats a fact, but stupid people need validation from doing these things. A religion like Islam has very vague and broad things written in the holy book and therefore is up to interpretation. These crazy people take that vagueness and exploit it."

This was not said in English so I had to change a few words. I've said this in other areas of the thread, but it's simply not the case that it's a minority which seems to be what your mother is suggesting when she says "crazy people take the vagueness and exploit it".

[55 percent of Danish Muslims think it should be forbidden to criticize religion.](http://wikiislam.net/wiki/Muslim_Statistics_-_Free_Speech)

**78% of British Muslims want limits on free speech when it comes to criticizing religion.**

No offense to you if you don't agree with them, but 55% and 78% are definitely not a minority. Thank you for remaining civil with me, nowadays on this topic I get bashed on just because I want explanation.

I read your source but unfortunately I don't read Dutch and I just want to see how the opinion poll was created and how the sample was. I don't read Dutch either, but the fact that 78% of British Muslims wanted limits is also disturbing.

I don't mean to offend you, but Islam is an ideology.  Sure, not every Muslim accepts 100% of the ideology but that doesn't really matter because it doesn't take 100% in order for crimes against humanity to continue.  Further, the more people say "it's just a few Muslims who think that way", the less I believe it.  This data seems to confirm it's not a fringe belief at all. Oh I agree with you 100%.

I'm disgusted by the actions of these people but again, I don't know of a way to eliminate the *problem* without someone shouting "KILL ALL MUSLIMS*. 

One use who replied to me suggested a Reformist Islam and right now, that seems the most plausible way to go.

Only problem with that is how to clarify who believes in Reformed Islam vs Old Islam etc.

Man, religion and ideologies complicate and hurt a lot of people and things. *sigh* I wish it were easy. [deleted] &gt; 78% of British Muslims...that were actually surveyed

Yes....that's how polls work. Do you think polls actually poll everyone in a demographic? No, they dont need to in order to get the same result within a certain percent of error that they would by polling everyone  Obviously a lot of Muslims have opinions that don't quite agree with Western values. However, equating having those opinions with going out and shooting people is dishonest.

Fact is that it _is_ a tiny, tiny minority of Muslims that actually go out and kill people. So yes, what his mother said was true, as it is a tiny minority of Muslims who are crazy and use Islam to justify gruesome deeds. That a large part of Muslims have opinions in certain cases that somewhat align with what these extremists use to justify their horrible deeds does _not_ make all Muslims crazy, violent people. It simply shows that there is a lot of work to do in integrating Muslims and convincing them of the value of Western ideas. &gt; However, equating having those opinions with going out and shooting people is dishonest.

No it's not.  If you believe people should be punished in any way for free speech, it's the same thing.  The only difference is the severity of the punishment.  In any case, people who believe that way don't deserve to be part of a free society.

&gt; It simply shows that there is a lot of work to do in integrating Muslims and convincing them of the value of Western ideas.

Not going to happen, because you're battling ideology/dogma. There are _tons_ of people, not only Muslims, who have similarly bad opinions. You can find a ton of examples in this very thread, with people calling for the deportation of Muslims, or locking up Muslims who use their right of free speech to say very ugly things. Hell, you're guilty to this to some degree yourself, as you condemn those using their right to free speech to say religion shouldn't be criticized and say they don't deserve free speech.

There is a _massive_ difference between having an opinion, however much you disagree with it, and actually acting on it an doing awful things. The "only difference" is not the severity of the punishment. The "only difference" is that some people are decent human beings with old-fashioned beliefs, but who would never dream of doing things like the things that happened to today, and some are not. 

I do not agree with Muslims. But I do _not_ equate their opinions, which differ from mine widely, with "supporting" the killing of innocents, because that is A. a false equation and B. the same thought process that leads to things like this happening in the first place. Your argument is ridiculous.  The one thing we shouldn't tolerate is intolerance.  So they're using their free speech to say that others shouldn't have it.  That's intolerance, which we shouldn't tolerate.

If you move to a country that values free speech, and you want to impose your religious dogma on them...then yes, you don't deserve to live in that society.

&gt; There is a massive difference between having an opinion, however much you disagree with it, and actually acting on it an doing awful things.

Nope.  Because if you're a Muslim and you believe punishment for free speech is appropriate, then there's only two possible outcomes:

1) You believe the government should punish people for free speech.

2) If not, you believe other Muslims should punish people for free speech.

Both of those scenarios are abhorrent.  

The only difference between the two is the severity of the punishment.  Even if they don't think offenders should be killed, they support the IDEA that people should be punished for free speech. Hate speech is already illegal in many European countries, and from there to outlawing certain types of criticism of religion isn't that far. These views are certainly radical in a European context, but I wouldn't call them extreme. Nor do I support the death penalty for shop lifters which I should do according to your logic.

It's also ironical how you think people with radical/extreme opinions don't deserve to be part of free society. &gt; It's also ironical how you think people with radical/extreme opinions don't deserve to be part of free society.

No, it's not.  The only thing we shouldn't tolerate is intolerance.  If you move to a country that values free speech, and you advocate for the removal of that right, then yes...you don't deserve to be part of it.

Further, it's even more concerning when we start to discuss who would enforce it.  If you think the government should enforce it, then you're effectively advocating Sharia law.  If you think it should be enforced by others, then you're advocating for terrorism.  Neither position has any merit.

&gt; Hate speech is already illegal in many European countries

And I disagree with this.  There's a pattern in the U.S. and UK of younger generations reporting that they'd rather have the right to not be offended than the right to free speech, and that's pretty disgusting. &gt; That a large part of Muslims have opinions in certain cases that somewhat align with what these extremists use to justify their horrible deeds does _not_ make all Muslims crazy, violent people. 

If someone's opinions align with what others use to justify killing people over cartoons, then yes, they are a big part of the problem. I'm not sure if that makes them crazy (now there's a stereotype I *do* have a problem with... mental illness does not always breed violence and not every violent person has to be mentally ill), but it most certainly makes them violent people, or rather violence enablers.  I think the point is, what % of those people would murder people in order to achieve that desire. Presumably a minority, one would hope. That's not the point.  *Any* punishment for free speech is unacceptable, because that punishment would have to come from the government.  Which is clearly wrong.

If it didn't come from the government, the people would be advocating for other Muslims to mete out the punishment and I'm sure you could see how that is clearly wrong.

We don't need to know which ones think murder is okay, all we need to know is what % think *any punishment at all* for free speech is okay. We need a new Islam, then.  Reformed Islam, where there's a very specific requirement not to go all jihadi as a response to an insult.  Save that for people trying to kill you.  Maybe another specifying that Islam cannot be spread by the sword, that a conversion at swordpoint is a false one.  And a third allowing people who've lost the faith to leave it without retribution.  Keep everything else the same if you want.

Then, anyone outside the Middle East who doesn't convert to Reformed Islam can be exiled from their current nation and figure shit out for themselves. I wish for this. How life would be easier. The nice thing about Islam is that it's pretty decentralized.  There's not much stopping any imam from doing this - declaring that radical muslims have hijacked the faith, and non-radical muslims are required to declare themselves members of 'Reformed Islam' to differentiate themselves from the radicals.

A nice fatwah pointing out the radical's beliefs and actions are not good for Islam or prospering in the modern world, along with the directives I listed previously.  Anyone who refuses to convert obviously believes in killing in a lot of circumstances Western civilization finds unacceptable, and should be shunned / exiled / watched like a hawk by police.

 I just wanted to thank you for not immediately bashing me or cursing at me for explanation or ideas, its nice being able to be civil and have a discussion.

I think you have put forth a brilliant idea, but actually putting this into place, man It's gonna be a bitch. If somehow this could be done with proper guidance from world leaders and proper funding, I think good can be achieved.

You are the first person I have spoken to to actually give me a good answer, thanks man. https://i.imgur.com/NQXQ7RV.jpg What is vague about the laws in the Quran? I've heard of Sunni and Shia Muslims before, but not Kinda. I Kinda like it. Witty, I like it.

More like i am Muslim by birth but am veering towards leaving.  Must be a difficult decision. I know secular people who say I am X but secular, non-practicing, lapsed, "kinda" etc. Is that not an option? Do you have to definitively leave? Is some ambiguity not acceptable? In any case, good luck! I like the sound of nonpracticing because that's true, thanks! did she fire her Ak in the air after? In Canada, there aren't a lot of people who own guns. To be honest, I don't know ONE person who has a gun, whether it be for hunting or sporting etc.

So no, she did not. Fucking funny that they will kill people over fairy tales more ridiculous than Harry Potter.  I supposed my friend Michael, who moved away at 11, must have gone to Hogwarts and therefore wizards are real?  Seriously... that is the level of idiocy that these religious folk believe.  Fucking simpleton idiots, and that's that.  Nothing more than 13th Century hill folk who happen to live in the 21st century. I agree with you but you can turn it around and say something similar about the USA. Thing is there are always cunts, they just find an idea to be a cunt behind. A lot of the time: Islam. Currently in our main university building there is a sort of mini-exhibition about the Islam. It's for eradicating prejudice and all that stuff which is a good thing in general. But I really don't want to be the guy that runs that exhibition tomorrow. ever heard of crusades or the old testament?

Also, it's more like they think they're entitled to control their country. You're mixing them up with the, what's it called, oh yeah, the United States of America. if you go pages back into my comments ive said a few times the crusades seem very similar to isis to me.
[Here is a link to an actual i post i made on the subject](http://www.reddit.com/r/Showerthoughts/comments/2loljb/the_crusades_were_the_christian_version_of_isis/) so youre not being *clever* as much as you are being *ignorant/naive*

however theyre no longer relevant since christians arent killing people every single day like muslims are.

so dont try to condescend, im not mixing them up with anybody. you dont see people in america beheading people because they refuse to convert to Christianity. christians/catholics moved passed their barbaric practices long ago, unlike muslims who are still barbaric to this day. so dont even go there. oh i am deeply sorry for not going pages back in every users comment history, it is indeed naive from me to not do that. 

no wait, that's you being naive.


have you ever considered that christians live in wealthy countries while muslims more often than not don't? have you ever considered that people with shitty lives turn extremist, no matter if politically or religiously? have you ever considered why you don't see beheadings in the USA? BECAUSE THE USA IS NOT A FUCKING WAR ZONE. THE USA BRINGS WAR. 

also, calling all muslims still barbaric is kinda ignorant, dontcha think.

peace out. Ah, i see you're probably a jihadist, and thats probably why youre offended. I don't even...

I am an agnostic working for the caritas. I'm about as non-religious yet tolerant towards religion as it gets. i'm offended because of your inane statements, they are an insult to my intellect.

 youre insulting your own intellect when you previously jumped towards a hostile and sarcastic attitude rather than discussing the subject as a mature person to begin with.

If you wanted to be taken seriously you shouldve used a less condescending tone in your first reply.

So next time you actually want to have a conversation, act like it. As far as i can tell, your intellect deserves to be insulted. but im sure someone with such a great mind as yourself knows this? right? treat others how you wish to be treated. its like you expected that you could be condescending and be taken seriously at the same time or something. utterly pretentious  you don't need Islam or religion in general to kill people. Killers will kill.  this argument is always brought up, but although it is true, that doesnt mean if it wasnt for islam there would be a lot less killers.

islam breeds killers. This, I feel, is the right way to go about it. I haven't studied Islam much but I know that its teachings are peaceful ones. I also know that 99% of Muslims are peaceful and are generally great people.

But the utter arseholes, who think they're giving their religion a good name, are pissing everyone off. It's driving people of other religions and cultures to become fed up with their shit and so just rally against the religion as a whole. 

This is wrong, technically, but its the only way the people are going to get any attention against these wackos. Watch the media go and say "Muslim leaders never condemn these kinds of acts", but in reality, they do all the time, the media chooses not to show it.

Some recent quotes from Muslim Imams about what happened:
&gt; 
&gt; "Loving the Prophet (salla Allah alayhi wa sallam) is a necessary requirement of Iman. Defending his honor is a sign of belief. This is done by following his teachings and practice, not by murdering in his name.
&gt; 
&gt; Our Prophet was verbally abused and physically harrased multiple times in Makkah. Never ONCE did any of the Companions go and murder those who did such deeds.
&gt; 
&gt; Do those who kill others in the name of the Prophet believe that they love him more than the companions?
&gt; 
&gt; And even for those who believe that the penalty for blasphemy should be death: by unanimous consensus of ALL the scholars of Islam, this must take place after a legitimate trial, by a qualified judge, appointed by a legitimate Islamic state. Under NO circumstances does Islam allow vigilante justice, for to open this door leads to chaos, confusion and bloodshed.
&gt; 
&gt; Muslims: get your act together!! Such acts of terror are not only haram and spill innocent blood, they will come back to harm you and your communities in the short and long run.
&gt; 
&gt; And as a result, all of us will suffer." Yasir Qadhi


And

&gt; What is more insulting to the Prophet (peace be upon him) than satirical cartoons are those who murder innocent people in his name. - Sheikh Omar Suleiman.

Also

&gt; The Quran says to the Prophet Muhammad, Gods peace and blessings be upon him, It is a mercy from your Lord that you are so gentle toward them. If you had been harsh and hard-hearted, people would have fled from your presence (3:159).
&gt; 
&gt; It is indeed the harshness and obstinacy of some overly zealous Muslims today, combined with the absence of mercy in their hearts, which is driving people out of Islam and deterring others from considering or even respecting it. They are conducting themselves based upon some misguided adherence to their understanding of Islam. They are uncertain in themselves, and so they feel threatened by anyone who might differ with them; through fanaticism, they attempt to protect themselves from doubt but result in only obscuring their view. Fanatics are blinded by the light of God as opposed to guided by it.
&gt; 
&gt; The Prophet, Gods peace and blessings be upon him, warned of these people when he said, Perish they who go to extremes. We should try our utmost not to be one of them.  - Hamza Yusuf

*another

&gt; TARIQ RAMADAN: Look, first, we have to condemn what has been done and whats happening in Paris. Thats notyou know, when we are told that what they said is that the prophet of Islam hasits a revenge, and this is the wayno, this is just a pure betrayal of our religion and our principles, that thats not acceptable. And my sympathy goes for the families and the victims. In the British media I have often seen imams and other leaders condemn terror attacks. It is stupidly obvious that the wider Islamic world condemns terror attacks. Anyone who thinks that terror attacks committed by certain Muslims are carried out on behalf/by the orders of the Muslim world are retarded.  &gt; Anyone who thinks that terror attacks committed by certain Muslims are carried out on behalf/by the orders of the Muslim world are retarded.

Not many people think this. What people actually think is that the people who are committing these attacks truly believe they are following the word of God. And that's a fucking problem when there are millions of people who believe this kind of crazy shit. &gt; And even for those who believe that the penalty for blasphemy should be death: by unanimous consensus of ALL the scholars of Islam, this must take place after a legitimate trial, by a qualified judge, appointed by a legitimate Islamic state.

Uhh.... Fucking funny, Jesus, he really doesn't get it. Maybe this was some satire of his own? Excellent post [deleted] Wait, there are idiots on the Internet? And you found 9 of them? Took a while, I guess. Do you really take seriously twitter users named NoVerrattiNoParty, LeeeeeeePeeen and Quindicci?
 Maybe not, but mootmoot sounds like a truly terrifying and legitimate Muslim handle you will find idiots like these anyhere, [you will also find other kinds of people on the other end](http://blogs.spectator.co.uk/coffeehouse/2015/01/not-in-our-name-muslims-respond-in-revulsion-to-charlie-hebdo-shooting/) [deleted] First i didn't say that. Second your statement is utter hogwash.

&gt; not ok to criticize someone who has those same shit beliefs, but doesn't act on them?

Oh i'm sorry, i didn't know we had a badass psychic over here. Can you read what's on everyone's minds or just those sneaky muslims? [deleted] uhm, go ahead? [deleted] Really can't believe this is your rebuttal and people actually upvoted this. Guess people just want a little confirmation bias for their prejudices I guess And the argument that I keep saying is "Why aren't they doing anything to clean their system?", besides the Kurds and the Americans that are going over there to fight with them. I don't see a whole mess of Western attributed Muslims going to defend what is right.....I'm just saying.  You're telling me that because my Dad is a regular ol' muslim he is obliged to give up his job as a teacher and to use his background in research to go and risk his life fighting extremists in the middle east?  
  
u wot m9 None of those twitter name exist...
 the last one "this needed to stop" ahaha yea sure as if everyone now will stop posting some caricatures. Its only making it worse (from their perspective) or better (from ours). I hope for massive caricatures in every newspaper tomorrow !  http://blogs.villagevoice.com/runninscared/2011/03/facebook_imbeci.php

There are idiots of all creeds and colors.  They don't speak for the populace at large, unless you think the American people as a society was happy to hear that over ten thousand Japanese civilians died due to the earthquake. Oh look, ignorant comments on the internet. Quelle surprise. Andddd...here are examples of all of the people condeming this idiocy that just doesn't get as much attention: http://media.giphy.com/media/TlK63EwiHqemn41RRHq/giphy.gif idiots &gt;"We condemn this heinous terrorist attack in the strongest terms. We are appalled and shocked by the massacre that was perpetrated against newspaper editors and other people and we grieve with the bereaved relatives.

&gt;There is not even a fraction of justification in any religion or any belief for such acts. This is a hostile and inhuman act against our free society. Through this act, our Prophet was not avenged, but our faith was betrayed and our Muslim principles thrown in the dirt.

&gt;It is to be feared that this attack will be grist for the mills of extremists of all stripes. We call on everyone not to fall for the perfidious plan of the extremists who want to divide society, stir hatred and discord among religions and want to turn the overwhelming majority of peaceful believers into pariahs of society.

&gt;The assassins of Paris must be quickly hunted down and brought to justice."

[Statement of the Central Council of Muslims in Germany](http://islam.de/24508)
 Do they actively fight to keep islamists out of their mosques? Or simply release a statement after something awful happens? Doesn't take a lot of effort to release a statement.. [deleted] Tell me what I should do to satisfy your obvious distaste? Do you want me to go fight the extremists myself?  Because at this point I have no clue and obviously you have a strong opinion on this matter and I want to hear a plausible solution or if not a solution, an idea of any sort. [deleted] I'm asking you to propose an idea because you're saying what people are doing now is not good enough. 

Go ahead. If the idea is good I will vouch for you and stand by it, if you're idea is exterminate all Muslims then it proves the mental instability I think you have. What do you want us to do? Seriously, I live 4,000 miles from these guys, and can't even speak the same language as them. We send troops to Afghanistan to fight them, we die in their terrorist attacks, we fight them in Syria, Lebanon, and Iraq. We speak out all the time, and you guys always say "not enough" seriously, what else do you want us to do?  More, obviously. Can't you do MOAR? ^/s Kamehameha the shit out of them obviously. MAKE EVERYTHING GOOD NOW OR YOU ARE HITLER!! Have a honest discussion about the repercussions of certain ideas of Islam. Specifically Jihad and martyrdom. Every time something like this happens, moderate Muslims say "this doesn't represent us", or "not in my name" or "this isn't Islam". Well actually if it happens this frequently it must have something to do with Islam. I mean there must be some doctrines in Islam that are encouraging this behavior. Buddhists aren't blowing up schools. Jains aren't killing journalists. Moderate Muslims need to critically look at their own faith an reform it. That's the only way to stop these attacks.   &gt; Buddhists aren't blowing up schools.

Buddhists do commit acts of violence though, including attacks against Muslims in Myanmar:

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Buddhism_and_violence

http://killingthebuddha.com/ktblog/buddhist-killing-it-really-happens/

I don't think we'd argue that Buddhism is an inherently violent movement, quite the contrary. Yet even people who profess to follow the most obviously pacifist teachings still have a desire to fight.

So it's not straightforward to say that because there are many violent Muslims there must be something in Islamic teachings that encourages violence. There are evidently a fair number of violent Buddhists but do we infer from that that something in Buddhist teachings encourages violence? The violence may have more to do with the circumstances of the followers than the contents of the teachings.

That said, it would be worth asking what the followers of different religions say to justify their violence. Do they turn to the religion's teachings and cite those, or do they cite other problems in their lives? Perhaps some religions' teachings are more prone to be cited as justifying violence than others, and the teachers of those religions may face more of a challenge to show how the teachings do not in fact promote violence.

None of this is very straightforward though, since there are layers of history, politics, psychology and religious interpretation to plough through in finding out what motivates a religion's follower to commit violence.

 Buddhists aren't killing people at the rate Muslims are. Yes most religious doctrines can be twisted to promote violence but it is much harder to do with some religions than others. It would be almost impossible to do that with the doctrines of Jainism. But it is extraordinary easy to do that with the mainstream doctrines of Islam today.

Compare the violent sects of Buddhism and Islam. Which has more members per capita? Compare the violent acts of Buddists and Muslims. Which has more per capita? Why is it when the Tibetan Buddhists are violently suppressed by the CCP in China, they're not blowing up schools and killing civilians? Why is it there are tons of examples of Islamists killing civilians and blowing up schools?

To say Islamic doctrines has nothing to do with this violence is absolutely absurd. The mainstream doctrines of Islam that are practiced today are certainly a problem. Islam needs to be reformed version that doesn't believe in the more violent doctrines. WTF else do you want them to do? Go on the front lines? What if they want to live a normal life and not deal with that shit? [deleted] Dude get some sleep What else are they supposed to do? what do you suggest they do? Came here to say this. Talk is cheap and because an imam comes out and says "k, that's not us" means nothing and will procure the same. Force must be met with force in this instance. Sorry, they're drowned out by the voices screaming for support. http://www.reddit.com/r/worldnews/comments/2rmasi/10_people_have_died_in_a_shooting_at_the/cnhc533 Who the fuck cares. It is the religion that is causing all the misery and death. Condemning it means NOTHING: Muslims are doing terrorist attacks constantly. Who gives a shit what a couple guys say if nothing comes of it and they still murder innocent people constantly.  It's that kind of thinking that breeds more violence.  What kind of thinking?! That their religion says to kill people and they follow it? It says so in their book (the bible too). I dont understand. All I did was say people murder in the name of Islam constantly. And you think somehow getting angry at that fact is a problem? 

Islam is not a race. Its a religion. Its a set of ideas. And ideas can be challenged.  You know, the thing is those couple of guys speak for a lot of people, who, for practical reasons, aren't interviewed one by one. You may have noticed that you appear on television rarely, but the leader of your country does so, and he's just ONE guy.

Your reasoning is particularly paradoxical because in relation to the muslims that condemn these actions, the terrorists are what you called "a couple of guys".

But some people just ignore reality and prefer to believe in stupid, hateful shit.

Have you ever wondered WHY you rarely get to see the other side, other than it being not much of a sensation? Because maybe you should. You see, there's this thing called propaganda, usually associated with ridiculous posters from WWII. In times of the internet, this shit doesn't work as easily any more, at least not on the majority; So a more subtle approach is needed.

Just. Saying. Have a nice day. You are right, getting angry at the constant murders and rapes IN THE NAME OF ISLAM is wrong. 

Islam has brought nothing of value to the world. They lack representation in science.  Religious belief is a set of ideas, if those ideas are fucking awful, it isnt bigotted to say so.  &gt;Islam has brought nothing of value to the world

Muslims had a heliocentric world-view long before christians. In general, they were a lot more advanced in the past. nowadays, science tends to steer away from religion for obvious reasons.

Religious belief, especially the dogmatic kind, is also tons of stories that often contradict each other. same fro christianity. also, lots of room for interpretation. moderate muslims condemn these actions. i feel like i'm commenting in a loop.

peace out. &gt; Muslims had a heliocentric world-view long before christians

Yes, in like the year 900-1000. What have they done since? Who cares? You claimed they did nothing, and that's plain wrong. Religion and science should not go hand in hand nowadays, no?

Those ideas are NOT necessarily awful, and just because you say so doesn't mean it's right. All the moderate muslims say it is a religion of peace. Iunno why you're so hung up on the science thingy as both should not go hand in hand anymore. Getting angry at the whole Islam for some lunatics is like getting mad at all of Europe because Anders Breivik is a misguided prick that wants to save European culture. 

Besides, what is the point? What you gonna do, bomb all muslim states because their religion sucks in your opinion? That is very enlightened /s. Prohibit it? Probably works just as well as the war on drugs.

 It's fun when the people who wrote all the crazy rules in the first place act shocked when inevitably some take it too far.

But it's okay because it's only a small percentage of them that go down the path of extremism.

Ignoring that it only takes a few people to kill thousands. That was quick. As it should be!  Fuck that guy!  Make him ride those Indian buses, it'll happen. The case has been booked on the basis of him supporting (offering to provide money) to people who will incite violence upon other on the basis of their religion.  
&gt; **Section 505(1)(c) in The Indian Penal Code
(c) with intent to incite, or which is likely to incite, any class or community of persons to commit any offence against any other class or community, shall be punished with imprisonment which may extend to 6[three years], or with fine, or with both. 7[(2) Statements creating or promoting enmity, hatred or ill-will between classes.Whoever makes, publishes or circulates any statement or report containing rumour or alarming news with intent to create or promote, or which is likely to create or promote, on grounds of religion, race, place of birth, residence, language, caste or community or any other ground whatsoever, feelings of enmity, hatred or ill-will between different religious, racial, language or regional groups or castes or communities, shall be punished with imprisonment which may extend to three years, or with fine, or with both.** &gt; incite violence upon other on the basis of their religion.

"Go! Attack those other people!"

"Wait a minute - are you inciting violence on the basis of religion?!?"

"No, officer, not at all - this is ordinary, run-of-the-mill, senseless violence!"

"Ah. Very well then, carry on." I don't know about India, but in the US that classifies it as a hate crime which would carry harsher sentencing than inciting violence for other reasons. Yeah, there probably are other sections that cater to "ordinary, run-of-the-mill, senseless violence". &gt; Section 505(1)(c)

In the US that describes conditions for tax exemption. I find this amusing.

http://www.law.cornell.edu/uscode/text/26/505 Yea, I found it amusing as well. I was confused for a bit, because I just skimmed over it. "How the hell is this guy getting a tax deduction?"
 &gt; Prophet Mohammad had conveyed a message of peace to the entire world

&gt; and if anyone makes certain cartoons on him will invite death like the cartoonists and journalists in Paris

Logic. http://i.imgur.com/G7zH5mN.jpg This is embarrassingly accurate.  I love Futurama. I miss Futurama. je suis Futurama. Shut up baby, I know it. We need Futurama. Hell, I need Futurama. I'm a mess without it. I miss it so damn much! I miss being with it. I miss being *near* it. I miss Futurama's laugh!


I miss Futurama's scent. I miss its musk... When this all gets sorted out, I think Futurama and me should get an apartment together!
 [Je suis Napoleon!]
(https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=FCSRq8dAqPc) [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] &gt; message of **peace**

You keep using that word, I don't think it means what you think it means Peace is synonymous victory right?  Once I'm in charge and everything thing is my way there will be peace. Isn't that Anakin Skywalker logic?

"we need a dictator so there will be peace in the galaxy!"

 "To your new Empire? Anakin my allegiance to to the Republic, it's to Democracy!" "I don't like sand. It's coarse and rough and irritating and it gets everywhere" "Yousa thinking yousa people ganna die?" "Kill the younglings" "Now this is pod racing" It's like poetry. :') &gt; "Now this is pod racing"

Cue picture of Anakin "riding" a lifeless youngling around the archives.   [Fuck you Rick Berman](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rq8O7i4gI3k) find the halflings Meat's on the menu boys "Well, then you are lost!" hashtag DarthVaderThings "only a sith deals in absolutes. Wait. That was an absolute. Son of a bitch. Guess I'm a sith. Wanna go kill some younglings?"  &gt; 

You're breaking my heart. &gt;So this is how democracy dies...with thunderous applause.

Oh wait, that was actually a decent line.  Good job George! "FROM MY POINT OF VIEW THE SAND IS EVIL!" &gt; Good is a point of view, Anakin.
  
Oh wait, that line was decent, too. "I don't like sand. It's coarse and irritating and it gets everywhere." Don't do it Muslims! We have the high ground! YOU UNDERESTIMATE OUR POWER rrrrgghhhIIIIIIIIHHHHATTEYYOOUUUUUUUUUUU!!! Doesn't every large body of power think like that? It has been true through a lot of history actually.

http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pax_Romana

http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pax_Britannica

http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pax_Americana Or the current frontrunner:
The Pax Vaporizer
 puff puff pax. Now that's hegemony I can get behind. Putting the 'headies' back in hegemony.  You missed Pax Mongolia, probably (ironically) the best example of peace within a dominion. I prefer [Pax Europaea](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pax_Europaea) as the 'best' example. I blame America. That's where this is headed right? Muslims die fighting terrorists and they are martyr heroes.  Americans die fighting terrorist and they Imperialist pigs.  That's one rabbit hole this heads to.  You're much more correct than you might think.

Although **Salam** () does indeed mean "peace", the word **Islam** () comes from a word of similar etymology - **Aslama** ()- which means "submission." Thou in the context of submiting to God, not submiting other people.
 A point continuously and intentionally conflated by extremists. Well the hand gestures *are* identical. well once everyone who isn't Muslim is dead then we are closer to peace, kill everyone who isn't part of my specific sect and we are almost there, lastly kill everyone who doesn't have my skin color, live in my neighborhood, or generally doesn't subscribe to my personal tastes

"peace" Well in the end, I guess there would be peace, as there would be one person left on the planet. Who kills himself/herself out of loneliness. 


^^^^^^^Peace ^^^^^^^^indeed. peace means there is no one left who thinks differently than you. Here's something I found interesting...
exclamation: peace

    1. used as a greeting.
    2. used as an order to remain silent.
 Oh.  Message of silence.  Peace in the Islamic world isn't like in the West although it is exploited as a propaganda term to pacify the West. Peace is brought only through submission to the will of Allah. There will never be peace until all things are for Allah. In this way, it is permissible to kill those who are against the will of Allah, because they are not for "peace". Circular logic

Non-Muslim lands are called Dar-al-Harib (the House of War). These lands must be conquered through Jihad (which is the will of Allah) until they are Dar-al-Islam (the House of Peace/Submission to the will of Allah)

http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Divisions_of_the_world_in_Islam

Islam literally means "Submission to the Will of Allah". This is what it really means. For example, the Islamic greating "As-salamu alaykum" doesn't really mean "peace be upon you". It really means the may the Submission to will of Allah be upon you. Submission. . . I'm a Christian who has done a lot of work with Muslims, including spending time in the Middle East (and I hope to make many more trips throughout my life). I work pretty hard to dispel some of the myths about Islam, and really try to live a life as a teacher who operates this way towards all ideologies (including atheism; I'm the guy who gets in trouble for preaching that we, God forbid, love our Muslim/Atheist/Jewish/Buddhist/whatever brothers and sisters). This to say, I'm not the type that's going to talk negatively about Islam (or any other ideology) for the sake of doing so. 

The reason I've taken the time to explain all of that is to make clear that what I'm about to say is not a jab at Islam, it just happens to be the part about Islam that bothers me the most. Before moving on, I should clearly note that I'm simply providing an objective explanation of those two quotes actually make sense together in Islamic ideology. I'm *not*, however, in support of those beliefs, nor am I defending them.

The concept of "peace" ("salaam" in Arabic) simply does not mean what most of us think when we consider that word. In most culture, ideology, and language, "peace" generally indicates a lack of conflict. The quote you're citing here about Mohammad "conveying a message of peace", followed by a comment about killing people for drawing pictures, looks incredibly flawed an illogical to you and I, but in classical, conservative Islam, there's no discrepancy in the quote.

"Peace" in Islamic culture means something totally different. It isn't necessarily the absence of conflict, rather it's heavily dependent upon justice. There's not a concept of peace in sense that "we all get along and fighting stops", rather that justice has been carried out on all that would cause there to be any kind of fighting against Islam. That's a main part of justice, too. It's not that everything is conflict-free, it's that conflict against Islam has ceased, and until then, there is no justice.

It's fairly twisted. Christianity nor Judaism hold to these beliefs. You may find sects within those religions that think that way (Evangelical Christianity is definitely one of them, but they have more in common with Islam than they'd ever be willing to even consider), but when we've seen that form of ideology take place in Christianity, it has collapsed (i.e. the Catholic Church, while still prominent, doesn't control half the world anymore).

It's *really* important to note that not all Muslims think this way. Many of them have a much more progressive view of Islam, and most Muslims truly do want to live in harmony with the rest of the world, without the tenant of classical, more "old school" Islamic justice that says there's no peace until Islam is the only thing around. It's the bad apples that perpetuate this type of thinking. 

 So, when he says "message of peace", what he really means is "message of don't-fuck-with-Islam-or-else"? peace = submit to islam and we'll have peace Your job just got a lot harder... Many people, myself included, are on a "Really?! They're doing this now?! Man... Fuck Islam." trip. 

It's the natural reaction when several atrocities are all perpetrated in reasonably quick succession in the name of anything. 

&gt;X did a, b, c and d in the name of Y?! Really?! FUCK Y

 I agree that it's a natural reaction, so I honestly try not to get too down on people who are responding this way. When folks start saying that an entire religion  needs to be erased from humanity, then I usually pipe up a bit more.

Your response, however, is incredibly level headed (seriously).  It is, what it is... I hear practice grenades have been thrown at mosques in France, I suspect we'll begin to hear of more incidents like that in the coming days, the seriousness of which depends largely on the outcome of these two hostage situations, **and** If there's more terrorism, let's not discount that possibility.  I will note that there exists a method for eradicating religions without eradicating *people*, and in fact without violence or coercion of any kind. It's called education in critical thinking skills. Today some Arab cartoonists have supported #Charlie. It's really nice to see. We need progress and reform  &gt; Evangelical Christianity is definitely one of them, but they have more in common with Islam than they'd ever be willing to even consider

I don't know what evangelicals you're hanging around with, but none I've ever met would ever hold the sort of opinion you ascribe to Islam with regards to conversion and 'peace'.

I grew up in a traditional Texas independent southern Baptist church.  All fire and brimstone, etc.   And not once was there any discussion of putting people to death for apostasy, or insult to Jesus, etc.  Even during the Maplethorpe exhibition/brouhaha, as offended as people were, there was no discussion of stringing anybody up for blasphemy.

There is a desire to spread the word (hence, evangelism), but any punishment for rejecting the good word would be up to God to mete out.
 Evangelical Christianity in its most conservative form is all about peace being equivalent to promoting God's will. You're right, they don't murder people but they do their best to stifle their rights if they oppose them on moral grounds (i.e homosexuals, women who have abortions, etc.).  We need to stop mistaking peace for submission. Islam means peace they say. That's b.s. Islam means submission in Arabic and salaam is peace You are correct.  It is an ideology of conquest. As an exmuslim who knows Islam very well and by that I mean I once memorized large sections of the Quran by heart, I belive I can explain this. See, were taught that Mohammed was the example of perfection, the ultimate role model and you should do what he does. Mohammed killed or converted many Arab poets who mocked him and he made insulting him a death sentence unless you repent. 

This type of poetry is called "[Hejaa poetry](http://ar.wikipedia.org/wiki/%D9%87%D8%AC%D8%A7%D8%A1_%28%D8%B4%D8%B9%D8%B1%29)" which translates in English to Satire poetry. Killing satirists for Mohammed is not new, it has been happening since the 7th century. &gt;Killing satirists for Mohammed is not new, it has been happening since the 7th century.

And it hasn't made one bit of difference by the 21st century. We're free to make fun of whoever we want, including someone's "God", and by fuck we're going to do it more now. So some psycho killed people who mocked him and wrote down that his followers should do the same? 

Man made religious bullshit Even though that might sound horrible, these are not the things that made me doubt the religion. It's scary how I could easily justify the violence in my head. If you talked to me a few years ago, I would have said those guys deserved it without hesitation. Wow that's quite an insight. Thanks for sharing that. You would think any mentally stable human being would be against the taking of another life but it goes to show some people do bad things for (what they believe to be) the right reasons.  All religion is man made. I have yet to see a lick of evidence showing otherwise. The fact that people want to do what he does is even more reason to condemn his pedophilia. religion is terrifying  &gt; Prophet Mohammad had conveyed a message of peace to the entire world

Yes, through setting up a world caliphate which is basically a fascist system where anyone who doesn't follow or questions is justifiably killed. Peace through force indeed... The way you set up the quote makes it seem as if the two statements were made separately from one another but nope... same thought.

Can we fast forward to a world where people don't kill each other over religion? Then they'll just kill each other over:

- Skin Colour

- Money

- Oil

- Food

- Political power

- Social standing

- Political beliefs Don't forget about pussy.  We'll have reached a point in society where we'll be so progressive, people will kill for dick too. At least that has tangible results... Never been tangible for me :( At least you survived! That's tangible! No no, the things fought for or over are not for you but for those with the money/power. You're just required to do the fighting FOR them. Religion is somehow worse than say resources because resources are things people and societies actually need to meet basic needs or functions. Religion it is not something we all need or want and  simply put- it is irrational- it exists in a different domain from the world we occupy. I don't care what you believe in or don't- but I care that it stays in the domain separate from the secular world.

 Religion also seems to permit people who suffer from mental illnesses to act out their "crazies" if you will. We are taught not to confirm schizophrenics' delusions and specifically told to keep reiterating about what is actually happening and existing around them.  When  one person says "Jesus" or "Allah" is "talking to them" or "told them to do it", they are considered to be having a "religious experience"; while others who say the "the giraffe"  or "the voice in my head named Joey" are "talking to them", they are considered in need of great mental care. I'd much rather deal with the fight over resources, than have to parse out when is someone just a "bad guy", "bad guy with mental illness" and "guy with mental illness".  How about don't kill each other period? War is peace
Freedom is slavery
Ignorance is strength

2 + 2 = 5 There are four lights! They should have been fined the tool $8m.  **And** imprison him for 8 years. And give him 8 paddy wacks for being such a bell end  And only 8 hours of sleep per... well that's more than I get, so nevermind.  and 8 inch dad dick, 8 times a day. and 8 maids a-milking FIVE GOOOOOOLD RIIIIINNNGGS Not falling for that one again, Sauron.  ..and 8 days a week. Lol what's a paddy whack?   Sounds like something a old man would knick knack just before giving a dog a bone. gr8 b8 m8 made the west ir8, 2l8 to comtempl8 or deb8 your st8, prison for 8/8.  Rel8 to the h8. Tatoo an image of Mohammed on his forehead. And release him in Syria. shower thought. If there are no pictures of Muhammad then how do all of these people know that these are actually drawings of him?  Or that they aren't a drawing of one of the other jillion guys named muhammad? No idea. And, 8" from his new boyfriend once he gets there. If you know what I mean. And give the money to Charlie Hebdo.  [deleted] What's Charlie gonna do with $500.00? $300.00 is surely a lot of money, though. $100 will buy a nice dinner.
 $50 is enough for a good pair of shoes right? Best I can do is $25. look i found $5 on the street... About tree fiddy Good. You having reprehensible thoughts is one thing. You paying/offering for the a criminal and violent act is not free speech.  Probably want to keep decisions like that away from the US Supreme Court.... if he was in america i'm sure there is something in the patriot act having to do with funding terrorists that they could have gotten him on 

edit: damn, some of you need to calm down. its a silly joke of a comment. not a meaningful and well thought out political commentary or like, murder for hire Or maybe, just the part where he offered money to incite violence. I don't think that's legal here in the States either... There's no need for the patriot act.  Paying someone to kill somebody (hiring a hitman) has been illegal for a very long time. Also aiding and abetting.  That is a life sentence actually. Treason is death row Excellent. It would be unfair for the country and the Indians to be associated w/ this crazy scum. jokes on us there are a lot more of him all over India Indians can get these extremists one at a time. "i was just trolling xD it was all a prank! look, the camera is right there!" haha jokes on you Indian government I was only pretending to be a retard. http://i.imgur.com/Lao2sMK.png How do you get such a dichotomy into a single sentence?!

"Prophet Mohammad had conveyed a message of peace to the entire world
and if anyone makes certain cartoons on him will invite death like the cartoonists and journalists in Paris" Doublethink. Religion can inoculate a person from self-reflection. This is why Richard Dawkins called religion a "virus of the mind".

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Viruses_of_the_Mind Totally agree. This guy though... It's like what he's saying is from a line in Fawlty Towers or something I can hear Cleese saying it right now. Unless, of course, [self-reflection is a core part of a religion](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Meditation#Religious_and_spiritual_meditation). The Indians aren't fucking about these days are they judging by the population increase rate, I'd say they're fucking around a lot more than necessary.  Actually the rate in India have gotten quite down, It's the Africans who have really high rate now So recently I got dragged to the theater to watch a bollywood movie called **PK**
 
I found the movie fairly enjoyable, very relevant to current state of religious affairs of the world. There is a memorable scene in the movie. (spoilers, obviously)


&gt;*Antagonist: You attack our god, and you think we will just shut up and take it? Son, we know very well how to defend our god.*

&gt;*Protagonist: You're gonna defend god? (The earth) Is a very small sphere. There are millions of spheres much larger than this one floating around in space. And you, a resident of a tiny street of a tiny city in this tiny sphere, claim you're gonna defend god?*


The movie is an attack on managers of religions who profit off of peoples' fear and ignorance. . The movie has a very agnostic tone. I'm not trying to plug the movie in this thread, but imo it's one movie that should be seen by everybody that can get their hands on it. Been planning to see this. I've been hearing about PK forever now. I think an $8m fine would be appropriate here. Hell, I would seize all of his assets.  He is funding terrorist activity.  Use those millions of dollars to help the families of those lost due to terrorist attacks. $8mil fine, used to purchase copies of Charlie Hebdo and distribute them in India.  translate them into english first Isn't it a illegal to publicly support a crime or terrorist organization? Go India!! This fills my heart with hope. That loser of a politician is not an elected official. People like them just surround themselves with muslim community and say something against people that are perceived as anti Islam and support perceived pro Islamic activities. This is a very common problem in India and most people have ignored it. It will probably take another 100 years or so before this particular set of community comes on 1900s. This is a problem that is identifiable by other countries such as France too. They also have some communities dominated by alegerians or african muslims who are just happy staying outside. What else to do? the sad part is that he is. He has won elections. He comes from a constituency that's ~40% muslim. Most people have ignored it... 

Thats what I have the biggest issue with. There will always be idiots like this nutjob, its the duty of sane people to do something about it and not just ignore it.  Now, there is some hope for the planet. Standing against this type of thing en masse is what is really necessary for change.

THIS appears to be the SAME guy who caused such chaos after the DANISH CARTOON -

"In 2006, Qureshi had stoked a huge controversy when he declared a reward of Rs 51 crore for anyone who would kill the Danish cartoonist who had created a controversial cartoon of Prophet Mohammed. He had made the offer at a public rally in Meerut." This guy has been spewing hate speech like that for years now, yes, and has constantly been reelected. Perhaps his funders should be arrested as well for supporting conspiracy to commit murder. Really? Anyone who draws this prophet guy should expect death? 


I really want to know: How many have died for drawing offensive portrayals of Jesus, Abraham, Vishnu, Confucius, the Buddha, etc... How many Christians, Jews, Hindus, Confusions, or Buddhists have murmured people for reasons like this? Does anyone have info on this?


The good leaders in the Muslim community need stand up against this senseless slaughter. It makes everyone look bad. http://www.theonion.com/articles/no-one-murdered-because-of-this-image,29553/ [NSFW] I'm impressed.  Which should tell you something about how low expectations have dropped to.  Because of ~~reddit's~~ /r/worldnews' Indophobia/racism. **Article summary:** 

---


&gt;* Meerut: A case has been registered against former Uttar Pradesh minister and BSP leader Haji Yakub Qureshi for his controversial comments, in which he defended the terror attack on French satirical magazine Charlie Hebdo.

&gt;* According to some media reports, Qureshi had also announced a reward of Rs 51 crore to the killers of the Paris journalists.

&gt;* Qureshi had yesterday courted controversy when he sought to defend the terror attack on French satirical magazine Charlie Hebdo, saying whoever shows disrespect to the Prophet will invite death.


---
^I'm ^a ^bot, ^v2. ^This ^is ^not ^a ^replacement ^for ^reading ^the [**^original ^article**](http://zeenews.india.com/news/uttar-pradesh/bsp-leader-haji-yakub-qureshi-booked-for-defending-paris-terror-attack_1527225.html)^! ^Report ^problems [^here](http://reddit.com/r/bitofnewsbot)^. 

**^Learn ^how ^it ^works: [^Bit ^of ^News](http://www.bitofnews.com/about)** Kudos to India! Depending on *when* he offered it to them, he should have also been charged with conspiracy to commit murder.  Straight up first degree murder. I pay someone to kill my wife and authorities find out, 1st degree every single time. How many times have you done this? Booked!?

I hope that booked means arrested, for fuck's sake. If he does it again, he gets a red card. No, they reserved him to perform at a party It seems that the radical Muslims want to kill people and the non radical Muslims want the radical Muslims to kill people.  Seize his assets, send him to prison.

Life without parole...no more daylight, solitary confinement.

You can't fix violent ignorance, but you needn't tolerate it either... Fuck that motherfucker I hope he loses all his money and dies alone in jail!! I wished the US had this law when Gabby Giffords was shot and all the republican politicians were rushing to remove the pictures they'd put up of her and others with crosshairs shown on them.  

Step 1) Incite violence  
Step 2) Claim you didn't incite violence  
Step 3) Rinse and repeat  *Prophet Mohammad had conveyed a message of peace to the entire world and if anyone makes certain cartoons on him will invite death like the cartoonists and journalists in Paris* the irony of this statement is completely lost on this idiotic megalomaniac. It deserves a cartoon in itself. So not only did he incite violence by offering money, he is also a coward and denied he did it. What a spineless, bigoted individual. They can't even use the argument of doing this as an ideological attack in the name of their religion, its just greed. People paid their lives for this greed, such a shame.

"He, however, later denied those reports. "I have not made any such announcement regarding the attack in Paris," he claimed." "Prophet Mohammad had conveyed a message of peace to the entire world and if anyone makes certain cartoons on him will invite death like the cartoonists and journalists in Paris,"

-The irony gave me ball cancer. I hope everyone understand that the reason Islam was able to spread so quickly through the middle east and north africa was due to its brutality.  Submit to Allah or we'll kill you, rape your women and daughters, and sell your sons into slavery.  There has been a thread of brutality through this religion since its inception and it would have been as frightening to its converts as ISIS is today. A small man and his small god, insulted by small words and pictures. So cute.  Good. Seriously screw anyone like him who does the same no matter what faith or country they originate from. Shouldn't this person be removed from his position of power? You shouldn't have such biased, vile people holding a position of power over peoples lives.

I'm not usually for firing people for saying things offensive, but when it's a politician and he is offering money to terrorists, then shit gets a bit too nasty and things need to be done. okay, now every country needs to do this to any idiot who tries in incite this jihad crap If a cartoon is powerful enough to injure your pride and what little self-esteem you have, you should really rethink your faith.  

How is he still in a position of power when he made a comment promoting violence as far back as 2006? Too bad these things rarely have consequences until an attack actually happen. As far as I could see he should have been locked up back in 2006 when he put a bounty on the Danish cartoonists...


Also gotta lover the "logic" : "The Prophet spread a message of peace to all people ... so anyone who insult him must die!" For all intents and purposes, this man is a terrorsit. 

A terrorist with money and resources too, the worst kind

Edit: forgot to mention "fuck this guy" what a jabroni
 I wonder what would happen if Cyanide and Happiness make comics about him Good.  Placing bounties on people / offering cash prizes for terrorism should definitely be a crime. [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] Someone linked [this](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Ry3NzkAOo3s&amp;feature=youtu.be) video on a thread yesterday, and it's sad that it could be hundreds of millions that actually think the killings are right.   poor oppressed muslims in India..

[Mahavira Idol Defaced by Muslims](http://imgur.com/7t95iVD)

[1](http://imgur.com/TW8ylEA)

[putin1](http://www.scotsman.com/news/world/putin-suggests-circumcision-and-islam-to-french-journalist-1-630256)

[putin2](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ftTeIVFqZ-g)
 To be honest, the "idol defacing" argument feels really weak, considering this: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Babri_Masjid We must be sure that freedom of speech works both ways. People are free to defend whatever they want, even the actions of fanatical murderers. However, inciting violence by offering rewards for it is another matter completely.

Freedom of speech is more difficult than most people appreciate. I don't think it would be too extreme to hang this man. While forcing him to wear a Halloween Mohammed mask! ...after a few months of anal rape in prison.  can't let him get off that easy. They should take that money and give it to Charlie Hebdo.  I am Charlie Hebdo Hey me too! so, we can't con him out of the 8 mil? shit. I would be surprised if he has 1mil, much less 8 million. They should transfer him into a mental institute and confiscate all his wealth. All his followers and political allies should face terrorist investigations They should book him for attempting to aid terrorists if they have anything similar to that. I'm sure that would hold a heavier sentence than inciting violence. Woohoo, French forces have just killed all the shit-eating Muslim hostage takers in France! Seeing he says he has at least $8m he should be fined that much and that much should be given to Charlie Hebdo related causes (such as the families of the victims).  Then life in prison and confiscation of all his money to be given to causes that prevent such acts. Peace or death or peace off... Why is it that every time I click on the link it leads me to a shitty advert. I've tried twice and I'm not doing it again.  Isn't there another Indian politician who said that everyone in the world are born as muzlim and later forced take other faiths? And he reconfirms his statements proudly later. Maybe it was the lunatic Owaisi . It was the older Owaisi. That guy talks sense, then talks shit and then starts talking sense again. The younger Owaisi on the other hand has a permanent problem. All he does is incite hate. My very limited understanding of Islam is that, just like Christianity, they believe everything is God's creation, and therefore is part of Islam inherently.  I might be way wrong, though. Good, fuck that guy. Charb, one of the caricaturists killed today, said earlier, after receiving death threats from islamists: **"I am not afraid of retaliation. I have no kids, no wife, no car, no credit. It perhaps sounds a bit pompous, but I prefer to die standing than living on my knees."** Source: http://www.lepoint.fr/societe/charlie-hebdo-charb-cabu-wolinsky-et-tignous-morts-dans-la-fusillade-07-01-2015-1894661_23.php  
Edit: I wish there had been no occasion for me to get the Reddit gold today, but thanks in any case :-(  Good. One of the heroes to stand up against this for the freedom of press, and show us all that it's worth fighting for. It's true, we can not give into terrorist demands (christ, I feel like bush saying that) and let them get away with all they have done. I agree, run his comics on the front page of every magazine, same comic, everywhere. What would they have to say about that? &gt; One of the heroes to stand up against this for the freedom of press, and show us all that it's worth fighting for. 

If everyone grows the balls this guy has (had :( ) and starts doing it, they aren't going to be able to single anyone out for retaliation. Bravery/courage/balls of steel can be displayed in many ways. So sad to have lost someone of this character today. RIP. And to the attackers.... Why support a prophet/religion so weak that people drawing pictures of him requires a response like that? That's cowardice if you ask me. So painful to read, but this quote should be in every french History book in every french school. Merci pour le partage. Any time someone makes French "surrender monkey" jokes, this guy should be quoted to them. It's like family making fun of each other.  They call us all fat Americans, we call them the ones who surrendered.

Fuck with either of us tho and we got each other's back.

Hope they catch and crucify this scum. Smelly Indian reporting in. Don't let these bastards get away It's okay, you're only smelly because your food is so delicious.  [deleted] [deleted] Charb:
http://media.meltybuzz.fr/article-1064219-ajust_930/charb-n-est-pas-pret-de-s-arreter-la.jpg
 [deleted] Please, spread his cartoons everywhere you can on the internet and let everyone see the images that were apparently so offensive that he deserved to have his life taken.

Honor the cartoonists deaths by spreading there work by translating it and spreading it as far as you can. We can't let this nonsense terrorism continue to be legitimized by letting them think that they can use fear to control people. One of the good guys. This is terrible. that's pretty awesome It's actually a quotation attributed to Emiliano Zapata (1879 - 1919), a Mexican Revolutionary.
 
*"Prefiero morir de pie que vivir de rodillas."* Actually it's older: I would rather die on my feet than live on my knees. 
 Euripides. What sort of people are there in the world that you can be killed for satire. Shocking news, RIP Fuck's sake, Charlie Hebdo is one of our most provocative magazine, they're not scared to attack anybody. They constantly make fun of christians, jews and muslims, but it's full of very intelligent writers (sadly some of them died in recent years, from natural causes), if any of them died today it's a very, very sad day for France.  Cabu and Charb supposedly died in the attack, the latest reports say.

This is the drawing Charb published in this week's issue: http://photos-c.ak.instagram.com/hphotos-ak-xaf1/t51.2885-15/10914636_536566006458634_608263392_n.jpg

It reads : "Still no terrorist attack in France", and the terrorist says "Wait, we have until the end of january to present our wishes"

EDIT:  You know the worst ? They were specifically looking for Charb. I hope it's not about this cartoon or these are dark times we are living in.

EDIT 2: Thanks for the gold and for the note, stranger. I agree with you: "The world need to see the last works of a great artist." FUCK. For those who don't know, Cabu is one of the most important satirical cartoonist in France. He was the most peaceful guy you could meet. Fuck them 

I don't have words strong enough

also, here's the last twitter pic from Charlie Hebdo: 

https://pbs.twimg.com/media/B6vY6mDIAAEI5k1.jpg:large

"cheers" It both pisses me off and boggles my mind at the same time that there can be people so extreme in their religion that they kill cartoon artists in cold blood and pretend that they did it to protect some sacred person's image as if it were an order from god.

DAMN IT this terrorist stuff is still going on in the 21st century and I can't freaking stand this cycle of BULLSHIT!

Edit: I agree with PM_ME_BIRDS_PLEASE below, I really hope that the image that caused the attack is picked up by the internet and other magazines and spread everywhere. Censoring it is exactly what would legitimize there terrorism, and I don't want murderers to be legitimized. 

Edit 2: [Here's a comment chain linking several of the cartoonists' images](http://www.reddit.com/r/worldnews/comments/2rmace/shots_fired_at_french_magazine_hq/cnh6nm9)
 What's stupid is they didn't want pictures of Mohammad from fear they would worship him instead. These morons don't even understand why they have their own religious laws. Charb is confirmed alive but hurt. Cabu confirmed dead. Murdered for his work, it's outrageous.

EDIT : Charb's status report are contradictory. Waiting for more info.
EDIT 2 : Charb is now confirmed deceased. Dark day Confirmed as Muslim extremist terrorism. One of the attackers can be heard screaming 'Allahu Ackbar' from the rooftop.

Edit 1: Video: http://www.geenstijl.nl/mt/archieven/2015/01/video_schutters_parijs_schiete.html#comments  

(See list of these videos individually @ Edit 22 further down)  
**be advised one of the videos show a cop being executed point blank** 
  
Edit 2: Confirmed 11 death, one is a cop, 10 wounded.  
  
Edit 3: (13:20 local time) French president Hollande call the attacks 'extremely barbaric'.  
  
Edit 4: (13:25) For pictures: http://mobile.scribblelive.com/Event/Schietincident_Parijs?theme=2174  
  
Edit 5: (13:44) 12 deaths now, attackers still at large.  
  
Edit 6: President Hollande will address the nation at 20:00 local time. French president and ministers will meet in 15 minutes from now.  
  
Edit 7: White House condemns attack 'in strongest possible terms'    
  
Edit 8: Jens Stoltenberg, secretary general of the NATO and former PM of Norway (also during the Oslo/Utya attack) tweets: "My full solidarity with our ally #France following outrageous attack on press freedom. My thoughts are with the victims &amp; their families."  
  
Edit 9: Attackers have been heard saying 'they came to revenge the prophet', say eyewitnesses.  
  
Edit 10: French PM Francois Hollande just tweeted: "Aucun acte barbare ne saura jamais teindre la libert de la presse. Nous sommes un pays unis qui saura ragir et faire bloc." - "No barbaric act will never extinguish the freedom of the press. We are a united country that will react and unite and help each other".  
  
Edit 11: Somebody asked: I'm just a random European citizen with a day off. Main sources for news are French TV, http://www.lemonde.fr/ , http://mobile.scribblelive.com/Event/Schietincident_Parijs?theme=2174 and various Dutch and French news sites (I'm in The Netherlands at the moment).  
  
Edit 12: (13:58 local) The anti-terrorism plan 'Vigipirate' is in effect on the highest level. This means heavy police presence and military police with machine guns at all major stations and squares, and so on. Last time I remember this level was in effect was after 9/11.  
  
Edit 13: (14:02 local) Police say: "The attackers spoke of "the prophet" and shouted "Allah Akbar". They are still on the run and actively sought by police. Their car was found in Pantin (Seine-Saint-Denis). Their identity or their possible link with any organization is not known." http://i.imgur.com/lnCsv5i.jpg  
  
Edit 14: Stphane Charbonnier, main editor of Charlie Hebo, is said to be among the deceased .  
  
Edit 15: Political leaders from around the world are expressing their compassion and horror. I will stop quoting them all here from now on. Among them German PM Merkel, President of the EU Jean-Claude Juncker.  
  
Edit 15: (14:09) @soren_seelow: Charb, Cabu, Wolinski et Tignous have died in the attack, sources inside police say.
  
http://fr.wikipedia.org/wiki/Charb  at age 47  
http://fr.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cabu  at age 76  
http://fr.wikipedia.org/wiki/Georges_Wolinski  at age 80  
http://fr.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tignous at age 57
  
Edit 16: (14:18) taking a break, tearing up, going to open a good bottle of French wine. Back in ten.  
  
There are 3000 policemen on the streets now. Three terrorist are sought after.  
  
Edit 17: (14:26) corrected #14, deceased not diseased, sorry not a native speaker.  
  
Edit 18: There's nothing anybody can do now, but the hashtag action #JeSuisCharlie is probably taking off (I don't know much about using Twitter)
  
Edit 19: (14:31) All public transport stations but also the main shopping centers are being guarded. There are still three idiots with a rocket launcher out there.  
  
To those gilding this post: really, it's only out of my own frustration I'm doing this. I do appreciate the gesture however.
  
Edit 20: (14:39 local, 8:39 New York time, 5:39 LA) The names of the deceased are based on eye witness accounts.  
  
Edit 21:  Thomas Bruning from the Dutch journalist assosciation:  
Journalists were already a target in conflict areas, but the terror has not previously been so close. We will have to consider what this means for journalism in Western countries. Keep doing your job and if possible in a very safe way, but against something this terrible you can hardly protect yourself.  
  
Edit 22: (14:45) An user with the poetic name /u/rimjobtom has summed up the videos:  
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zUWUaxd-190  
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=g3lSK4_6byY  
http://www.liveleak.com/view?i=85c_1420633406  
http://www.liveleak.com/view?i=eea_1420632587  
http://www.liveleak.com/view?i=bc6_1420632668  
**Assume NSFW/NSFL when viewing, also LOUD shooting**  
  
Edit 23: (14:48) The chairman of the French Muslim council and rector(?) at Paris' largest mosque said: "We are shocked by the brutality and cruelty".
  
Edit 24: (14:51) The National Union of Journalists called for a gathering at [the well know square Place de la Republique](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Place_de_la_R%C3%A9publique) at 18:00 hours. http://www.snj.fr/spip.php?article5330 but their site caved in under the pressure so it seems.
  
Personal: I can't keep up with the PM's and comment replies. Please forgive me if I don't react to them.  
  
Edit 25: (14:57) Soldiers with machine guns patrolling under the Eiffel tower: http://i.imgur.com/y5hEymX.jpg  
Edit on this one: users say this is not unusual. Image popped up on a newsfeed about today's event however.  
  
Edit 26: Search for the terrorist concentrating on the Seine-Saint Denis area, just outside of the Paris inner ring road (Boulevard Periferique).  
  
Edit 27: On Twitter there are messages appearing about a burning car exploding outside a synagogue in the Paris suburb Sarcelles. Now checking for reliable sources.    
Picture of the burning car: http://i.imgur.com/XVjUh3S.jpg - sources say it could be an accident. Will update when more is known. EDIT: **spontaneous fire** according to the mayor someones car caught fire while driving. (Imagine accidentally setting your car on fire in front of a Synagogue in Paris today...)
  
Edit 28: French Justice Minister C.Taubira reacts outside of the headquarters of the satirical newspaper: http://i.imgur.com/Q3WF1a2.png (AFP)

Edit 29: (15:07) The economist Bernard Maris, another pillar of the writing of Charlie Hebdo, would also be dead, according to several sources. http://fr.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bernard_Maris died at age 68.  
  
Edit 30: (15:23) Statement from POTUS regarding the attacks: http://i.imgur.com/ArjsNt6.png  
  
Edit 31: (15:33) Police release a picture http://i.imgur.com/3vRFQMZ.jpg - a police car that was shot at 15 times (killing at least one policeman). US viewers: realize pictures like this are almost unprecedented in Europe. Police do not regularly encounter armed suspects let alone ones that shoot at them.   
  
Edit 32: Police will not be releasing anything on the manhunt while it under way, for obvious reasons. Media outlets around Europe focus on these events today, a lot of regular TV programming is ditched in favour of news broadcasts.  
  
Edit 33: (15:54) Mayor Anne Hidalgo of Paris has called all the French "and defenders of freedom'' to take to the streets Thursday evening in solidarity and silence. The silent march will start at 18:00 on the Place de la Republique in the east of the French capital. "This massacre plunges our country, our city and our democracy in mourning. "We are hit in the heart of our freedom'' said the mayor Wednesday in a statement.  
  
Edit 34: (16:04) suddenly marches are called for at 18:00 everywhere. Trafalgar square in London, Parizer platz in Berlin, place de Luxembourg in Brussels and all over France.  
  
Just to be clear on Paris: the journalist union said to gather today at 1800, the mayor's march is at 1800 tomorrow on Place de la Republique.  

Edit 35: (16:20) US Embassy in France changes profile photo to "Je Suis Charlie": http://i.imgur.com/wXTcVGl.jpg  
  
Edit 36: (16:21) First people are showing up on Place de la Republique. Some holding signs with 'Je suis Charlie'. (I am Charlie.)  
  
Edit 37: (16:30) So much people want to come together the LeMonde newspaper put up an interactive map. Over 45 places in France where people will come together to mourn. http://www.lemonde.fr/les-decodeurs/article/2015/01/07/charlie-hebdo-la-carte-des-rassemblements-d-hommage-en-france_4550916_4355770.html

Edit 38: Live YouTube feed from the place of the attacks: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LeIy0zH77MM  
(currently showing police investigators doing their work).
  
Edit 39: using the hashtag [#JeSuisCharlie](https://twitter.com/hashtag/JeSuisCharlie?src=hash) people around the world are showing their support.
  
Edit 40: (16:42) I will not be online as much as I was until now for the next few hours. I'll keep reporting in intermittently while keeping an eye on the manhunt and the gatherings/demonstrations (demonstrators of the far-right National Front already engaged police just now.) People look very angry here: https://twitter.com/olivierfaye   
  
Edit 41: Le Monde reports: Details of one of the two police officers killed: he was a brigadier on mountain bike, arrived there with a colleague. Aged 40, named Ahmed, he was stationed at the police station in the 11th arrondissement. His colleague was wounded in the ankle, as well as two other officers arrived afterwards.

Edit 42: (17:03) Twitter:  
"I agree with the French imam who called the slain journalists martyrs for liberty" - Secretary of State John Kerry  
Other side of the medal: https://storify.com/CEP/isis-supporters-respond-to-paris-terror-attack  
  
Edit 43: (17:12) No words needed for Ruben L Oppenheimers comic: https://twitter.com/RLOppenheimer/status/552848047089405952/photo/1  
  
This post reached max length. Continued below at https://www.reddit.com/r/worldnews/comments/2rmace/shots_fired_at_french_magazine_hq/cnhd2nu Seems like 10.000 characters is max for one post. Continued from https://www.reddit.com/r/worldnews/comments/2rmace/shots_fired_at_french_magazine_hq/cnh6mkn :

Edit 44: (17:33) With no new facts coming to light, the newsstream is calming down a bit. Lots of pictures of crowds coming together. Peacefully, luckily. The manhunt is still ongoing. I will report back if there are developments in this story.  
Crowd in Bordeaux, in the South West of France: http://i.imgur.com/DO0BLgG.jpg

Edit 45: Large peaceful crowds everywhere in France: http://www.lemonde.fr/societe/live/2015/01/07/en-direct-des-coups-de-feu-au-siege-de-charlie-hebdo_4550635_3224.html  

Edit 46: (18:51) Breakdown of the deceased: 8 editors, 2 policemen, one visitor, one receptionist.  
  
Edit 47: (19:10) Salman Rushdie in the WSJ: Religion, a mediaeval form of unreason, when combined with modern weaponry becomes a real threat to our freedoms. This religious totalitarianism has caused a deadly mutation in the heart of Islam and we see the tragic consequences in Paris today. I stand with Charlie Hebdo, as we all must, to defend the art of satire, which has always been a force for liberty and against tyranny, dishonesty and stupidity. Respect for religion has become a code phrase meaning fear of religion. Religions, like all other ideas, deserve criticism, satire, and, yes, our fearless disrespect.   
http://blogs.wsj.com/speakeasy/2015/01/07/salman-rushdie-i-stand-with-charlie-hebdo-as-we-all-must/  
  
Edit 48: (19:14) This I found a chilling quote - after shooting the policeman on the ground (his name was Ahmed Merabet) one terrorist says to the other: C'tait pas un algrien. C'est bon." (He wasnt an algerian, it's alright.)  
  
Edit 49: (19:20) The International Press Centre in Paris will hold one minute silence at 1100 tomorrow and calls upon all editorial offices to do the same.

Edit 50: (20:17) The French president is now addressing the nation. I will get some quotes to update this thread with shortly.  
  
Google search page in France has a black ribbon instead of a doodle: http://i.imgur.com/yt9Jauz.png  
  
Edit 51: Francois Hollande: "freedom will always be stronger than barbarism (...) The gathering of all, in all its forms, is what should be our response (...) Our greatest weapon is our unity (...) Nothing will make us bend. Long live the Republic and long live France!".  
  
Edit 52: (20:26) A map with (worldwide) all the gatherings in solidarity with what happened today: https://www.journalism.co.uk/news/find-a-jesuischarlie-gathering-near-you-with-this-map/s2/a563699/  
For anyone wondering what the dot in the Indian Ocean is: La Reunion, a French island.  
  
Also, it is announced that tomorrow, Thursday, will be a national day of mourning in France.   
  
This image http://i.imgur.com/AciNgfx.jpg of president Franois Hollande really is saddening.  
  
Edit 53: (20:42) Over 100,000 people are gathered now throughout France, at least 35,000 in Paris alone.  
  
Edit 54: (21:00) **People, I'm out of here for now. I'll be in a meeting the coming hours and sleeping after that (evening here). Thanks for all the replies and support today, I really appreciate that.**

Je suis Charlie. Crowd near the French embassy on the paris square in Berlin.  
Europe standing together.  
http://i.imgur.com/2iYzFO0.jpg   Holy fucking shit how they executed this cop, I'm so fucking mad and shocked right now. NSFL Video of the cop: 

http://www.liveleak.com/view?i=bc6_1420632668

Anyone know what the cop said at the end?


edit: cop being treated: https://www.facebook.com/photo.php?fbid=10153045593691057&amp;set=a.160409776056.139543.562346056&amp;type=1&amp;permPage=1 If I'm not mistaken, I heard the terrorist saying "Je vais le tuer!"("I'm gonna kill him!") When approaching the already-on-ground cop.
Then the cop replied "Nan c'est bon chef!" ("Nah it's okay chief/boss!") and then the terrorist shot.

Not guaranteing anything here, that's what i think i heard though

EDIT : After watching it again, i'm 100% sure about what was said.

*EDIT 2 : Full dialog : *

"Terrorist1 :  -Je vais le tuer! (I'm gonna kill him!)  **Some say, and it is also possible, that the sentence was "Tu voulais nous/me tuer?" (You wanted to kill us/me?)"**

Policeman :-Nan c'est bon chef! (Nah it's okay boss!)

*execution*

Terrorist1 :  -C'tait pas un algrien. C'est bon." (He wasnt an algerian, it's alright)


EDIT3 : Dialog I second this, sounds like "Non, c'est bon chef." meaning that he is no longer able to fight and that they don't have to kill him... Terrorist: "Tu voulais nous tuer?" "you wanted to kill us?"
Wounded cop: "Non c'est bon chef" "No it's good chief" (litterally surrender if you look carefully his weapon is on the ground near the pole)
Terrorist kills cop point blank.
 I live in Paris and work not far from there, had my Algerian friend listen and she confirmed that's what they said PLUS this:

They do not have Arabic accents nor Algerian accents, which is quite strange. Plausible that they are 2nd or 3rd generation in that case.

**EDIT**: I AM HEARING, not knowing, French Elite Force has arrested 1 suspect. They have known about them, where they live, and who they are. Apparently 2 brothers who were born and live in the 10th "arrondisement", district, right beside the 11th. One was tried for trying to go to Iraq as part of the "Iraqi branch of the 19th district of Paris." They are aged 18, 32 and 34 and are of French nationality. This does not mean they do not have other origins, just that they were born here.

Sources: 

Al Jazeera News Network quoting a French media outlet.

http://www.metronews.fr/info/attentat-a-charlie-hebdo-les-trois-suspects-ont-ete-identifies/moag!6R1qjYdgLbxjQ/

**EDIT 2** Suspect was just that, a suspect. Please keep in mind this was posted on the first day in the evening.  Sounds more like "Tu voulais nous tuer" (You wanted to kill us ?) to me. That's right it's more : Tu voulais nous tuer, hein ? (You wanted to kill us, uhh?) Seems to me the easiest way to discourage attacks like this would simply be to publish similar pictures in a large number of magazines, right? This way extremists would have hundreds to thousands of targets and hopefully would be overwhelmed and be forced to accept the cartoons, like they should.  Looks like The Telegraph have self censored the magazine cover in their online coverage. http://i.telegraph.co.uk/multimedia/archive/03156/charlie-hebdo-moha_3156721c.jpg 

~~Article: http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/europe/france/11329976/Paris-Charlie-Hebdo-attack-live.html~~ 

UPDATE: They have removed the image from the article. Direct link still works. This is BULLSHIT! this is exactly what they want, goddamn this angers me. Yep, Telegraph ~~aren't~~ isn't exactly showing how brave they could be in the face of this.

e: grammar thats what happened when JP published the Mohammed drawings. Then a lot of other papers followed. they need to keep doing that then. can't let these extremists win through their intimidation tactics. Definitely - very few publications around the world stood shoulder to shoulder with Jyllands-Posten when they posted the pictures that created the original controversy. Those that have, such as Charlie Hebdo, have found themselves isolated and easily targeted. NSFW http://www.theonion.com/articles/no-one-murdered-because-of-this-image,29553/ Spanish satire online magazine El Mundo Today:     
**Allah is fucking awesome.**    
Close sources to two very kind gentlemen wearing full black that burst into the editorial office and are currently aiming at us with kalashnikovs report that Allah might be "great", or even "very great". Just as El Mundo Today has come to know, Allah is fucking awesome, so we better shut the fuck up.
    
    
Apparently, there isn't anything better than Allah, always as reported by the yelling kalashnikov gentlemen. El Mundo Today also has come to know that Islam is super cool, and everybody will know it "first hand" very soon, and hence the best thing we can do is report about it.
    
    
"Allah is amazing and fucking awesome", the trusted sources keep insisting after the kalashnikov gentlemen visit, and also after the unexpected death, by causes non related to religion, of freedom of speech.    
    
"I'd never came to realize how cool Islam was until now", claims the one writing this article. Late in the afternoon, these same sources also claimed that "please, we don't want to die".    
http://www.elmundotoday.com/2015/01/ala-es-la-polla/ The people who work for this magazine are heroes, in my view. I hope this coward act does not push the French media to stop being provocative. Exactly when we are being bullied for exercising our freedom of speech is when we most need to keep it up. Satirical cartoon about this should be on the front page of Le Monde tomorrow if you ask me. Why stop with Le Monde, *every* newspaper in Europe. This is an attack on free speech.  There should be some sort of campaign, or one of those hashtags, where thousands and thousands of people post caricatures of mohammed everyday. There used to be one, the "International Draw Mohammed Day".

I think I can still look up my entry for that.

Edit: [here.](http://imgur.com/63U5Lsc) \*ducks\* I got a few angry messages about my entry that year, along with links to angry arabic people shouting on Youtube.  No idea what any of it said, but it was in all caps and appeared to be ranting.

My drawing was of a stick figure smiley man in a turban holding a flower. like this one? http://imgur.com/pe8pFRU  
 They had a few good ones:

http://i.imgur.com/sa6H7FC.jpg

If Mohamed came back:

"- I am the Prophet, you idiot!"  
"- Shut up, infidel!"
 Or this http://imgur.com/eS5yRbw.jpg That... that would be perfect.

e: For those who might not know, the caption says "Love is stronger than Hate." what about [this one](http://p8.storage.canalblog.com/80/67/177230/63901176.jpg)? 'Chiotte' is slightly more vulgar than 'toilet'.

In British English, I'd go with, "Down the shitter with all religion!" In french : All religion to the toilet. It should be everywhere. We must show that killing people will not stop us. We can be shocked, but we must not be afraid of them. Believe me, it's not gonna stop our country from publishing provocative stuff. This is going to really split the country imo, you can clearly hear say these fuckers say "allah ouakbar" in the videos of people on the roof. Every newspaper in Europe should publish those cartoons from Charlie Hebdo tomorrow. Every single one. My thoughts exactly. What are the extremists going to do? Bomb every newspaper and magazine in the world? A Dutch satirical news site just posted [this](http://www.speld.nl/2015/01/07/geen-doden-bij-satirische-aanval/): 'No people harmed in satirical attack'. That says it all, I think.  Cabu, Charb, Tignous &amp; Wolinski (all great cartoonists) are dead :'( Merde.

For the non french here, those are some of the most famous caricaturists in France. According to Itele, 10 people already died. 

And in France Info, a French radio station, a witness called in and said that he heard one of the attacker say "We will avenge the Prophet". 

Source : https://twitter.com/franceinfo/status/552781106844807168 It's 11 now, including two police officers.

EDIT : [Here's a video](http://www.francetvinfo.fr/faits-divers/attaque-au-siege-de-charlie-hebdo/video-des-images-de-l-attaque-au-siege-de-charlie-hebdo_790543.html) in which we can hear "allahu akbar". Warning : extremely loud.

[Another video](http://www.liveleak.com/view?i=bc6_1420632668) surfaced in which we can see them shooting a police officer and driving away. NSFL.

EDIT : 12 deaths confirmed now. Uhh I would include a stronger warning for that second video... NSFL or something. I don't know what I was expecting, but the headshot on the downed police officer was pretty horrific to watch.  That was heartbreaking. He reached his hand up pleading for them not to and then they just shoot him in the head and he's gone. Mid jog the attacker raises his rifle and shoots the downed officer in the head and keeps going like it was nothing.  He has done something like this before. You see violence, you see people hesitate before punching and you see people who don't. You can tell who has experience fighting and those who don't.

This is a city where most violence is fist fights, the police that showed up would have had experience of that and thats it. In Europe most criminals won't even fight the police let alone try and kill them. 

So seeing them casually kill a police officer who is already wounded is almost incomprehensible for the country and culture this is happening in. It's terrifying. This is very terrifying. These guys seem trained and not just a random mad man with a gun. This is very scary. &gt;So seeing them casually kill a police officer who is already wounded is almost incomprehensible for the country and culture this is happening in. It's terrifying.

Oh I agree, it makes me sick to my stomach watching that video.   That one just broke my heart. I watched it over and over because I couldn't believe how anyone could be so hold hearted. Horrible Have they managed to escape? Could this mean more shootings? They're still on the loose at the moment. They've put police everywhere, everyone is worried that they have other shootings in mind. sadly I can't see them stopping at that... fucking assholes... Holy shit, you can see the officer looking up before he executes him.
Fucking pig. the second video makes me so angry... holy fucking shit. animals. I didn't expect such a cruel video documentation.. Holy shit, my condolences, holy shit the policeman, i will not forget this man. Rip They had kalash and a rpg-7 rocket launcher, they also run over people while trying to fled and took car by force twice : 11 dead and 2 police officers wounded so far. 
French in Paris here :/ [deleted] Wow, this is the second time this magazine has been attacked. They were attacked for printing cartoons of Muhammad in 2011. They've got more balls than the entire British media estalishment put together.

Tragic. And I sincerely hope they have the balls to print more muhammed satires soon. We can't let those scumbags take over our liberty. Jesus, imagine working at the Onion or at Mad and having people wearing skimasks and AK's burst into your office. Christ. They're even even speaking of a rocket launcher, a fucking rocket launcher in the street of Paris ! Scary times... As I said, Europe is flooded with illegal weaponry from the Balkan wars in the 90s. It's not hard for any high profile criminal to have access to these guns.

For example, Germany has around 20 million illegal guns according to the German police:

http://www.spiegel.de/international/information-graphic-gun-ownership-in-germany-a-885089.html

The cops in Marseilles (which has a murder rate of around 5.0 per 100k people) are even afraid of entering certain parts of the city because there are people there armed with assault rifles. It's not a secret that many criminals in the suburbs of France possess illegal guns. There was even a shooting in Spain (or Portugal, can't remember exactly) where criminals started shooting at each other on the streets with guns that are illegal there. This was all filmed by a person living nearby. ["Love stronger than hate"?](http://i.imgur.com/Tpt2Z.jpg) It was their responses after their offices were torched in 2011. Very brave people! yup, respect the hell out of them for that. most places would be more careful with what they publish afterwards, but apparently all the workers there have balls of steel. Sadly their example is not being followed. The Telegraph has self censored itself when publishing an image of Charlie Hebdo http://i.telegraph.co.uk/multimedia/archive/03156/charlie-hebdo-moha_3156721c.jpg 

Src: http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/europe/france/11329976/Paris-Charlie-Hebdo-attack-live.html More likely this from October of last year: http://www.charliehebdo.fr/images/couv2013/01-1163.jpg

Edit: Mirror - http://i.imgur.com/Yl4OPRM.jpg
 People in Paris are stunned. Fucking stunned. This will have disastrous effects on the country.

edit : I'm in Paris right now, people are just devastated. I am in the USA and I am stunned. I feel sick to my stomach. It is so frustrating and infuriating that these people even exist to cause this kind of harm to innocent people and society.  What will the effects be?  I'm sure this will help relations between Western Europe and the growing number of Muslim immigrants. Meanwhile one of the most selling pro govt newspaper in Turkey headlines this as "Shooting at French Magazine which insulted our Prophet: 10 dead"

At this point I dont know how fucked up my country can get.

Edit: title got edited multiple times now. Its all over Turkish twitter user base. 

Also Turkish minister Celik condemned the attacks saying it perpetuates islamaphobic tendencies.

Edit2: Hurriyet, most sellings newspaper in Turkey, made a gif of policemen dying and published it on homepage of their website. Many journalists condemn their inexistant respect. Its worth mentiong le monde said they wont put that footage live due to respect to families of victims.

Edit on source: You can check tweets about subject by @oemoral and @wellsla both reliable international journalists. The news headline has been changed numerious times now.  With recent changes I'm kinda glad turkey never got into the EU.  I live a few blocks away from the gunfight. It smells like powder, there are police cars everywhere. Libert, galit, fraternit. Cabu is among the casualties. A cartoonist, nice gentle and funny. He used to be part of a show for children. Everyone loves him. This is stupid. We lost more than men and women today. They were symbols of our democracy and freedom of speech. Let's carry their legacy and strike back.  * Live news feed from Le Monde (in French) reports at least one policeman dead. French President is on his way to the crime scene. The editor of the newspaper is reportedly injured: http://bit.ly/1xEe2Jl

* 11 dead, AFP reports: http://bit.ly/1w1bK1D

* **Edit:** Le Monde is reporting that police officials confirm 11 dead, 10 injured.

* **Edit 2:** Picture of the gunmen shooting at police cars (two shooters in a black Citroen car, have not been apprehended yet): http://bit.ly/1wrM4fV

* Le Monde is reporting that French President Franois Hollande confirms 11 dead, 4 seriously injured. Paris "alert status" raised to the highest level.

* **Edit 3:** France TV Info has put up a video of the shooting in the street filmed from a nearby rooftop: http://bit.ly/1wprjS3

* **Edit 4:** A reporter from French newspaper Libration says the weekly meeting of Charlie Hebdo editorial board takes place on Wednesday mornings, which is the busiest day at the HQ: http://bit.ly/1AGcEXM

* **Edit 5:** Police confirms gunmen shouted "we have avenged the prophet", AFP reports: http://bit.ly/1s60d5U

* France TV Info and Le Monde are now reporting 12 dead: http://bit.ly/1tP6eFd

* **Edit 6:** Le Point is reporting editor and cartoonist Charb, and cartoonist Cabu have been killed in the attack, but I personnally would not trust this source for the moment: http://bit.ly/17jgZp5

* **Edit 7:** Arab world specialist Romain Caillet says this might be the deadliest attack in Paris since 1835: http://bit.ly/1AsuuyE

* **Edit 8:** The White House condemns the attacks, AFP says: http://bit.ly/14pmoZY

* Le Monde is now too reporting editor and cartoonist Charb dead, as well as cartoonist Riss. As a reminder, Charb was under constant police protection because of regular threats against the paper and its cartoonists.

* **Edit 9:** Le Monde reporter Soren Seelow says gunmen car found at Porte de Pantin, 5 km (3 mi) from the scene: http://bit.ly/1tP6dBl

* The French national council of the Islamic faith condemns the attacks, a "barbaric act" "against democracy", Le Monde reports.

* **Edit 10:** Le Monde says editor and cartoonist Charb, and cartoonists Cabu, Wolinski and Tignous have been killed in the attack, police sources confirm: http://bit.ly/14w0Njh

* Cartoonist Coco who was at Charlie Hebdo HQ during the attack reports in L'Humanit of two masked gunmen, speaking perfect French, no accent, and claiming to be associated with Al Qaeda: http://bit.ly/1ArSM9v

* **Edit 11:** Le Monde and France TV Info are reporting that one of the two dead policemen was one of those in charge of Charb's protection.

* **Edit 12:** Emergency cabinet meeting at the presidential palace. President Franois Hollande scheduled to address the nation tonight at 8 pm (local time): http://bit.ly/1Dm4VR8

* **Edit 13:** Major newspapers, TV channels and media agencies are now under close police protection to avoid any repeat attack: http://bit.ly/1zUvd6p

* Le Monde is also reporting that Bernard Maris, economist working for Charlie Hebdo, is dead.

* AFP publishes map detailing the attack and subsequent car chase (in English). As a side note, "Periferique" is actually spelled "Priphrique": http://bit.ly/1zUvjem

* **Edit 14:** French Minister of the Interior is speaking of "3 criminals" instead of 2, AFP and Le Monde say: http://bit.ly/1AsuNJW

* **Edit 15:** Radio France CEO confirms the death of economist Bernard Maris during the shooting: http://bit.ly/14pmReD

* **Edit 16:** Several foreign governments have condemned the attack: Russia, Germany, Turkey, Switzerland, the USA, and others. Barack Obama has offered his country's assistance in the matter: http://nyti.ms/1tKuZN7

* Le Monde is reporting that people are spontaneously calling for demonstrations of unity and support to the families of victims all over France and Europe: Trafalgar Square in London, Parizer Platz in Berlin, Place du Luxembourg in Brussels, Place de la Rpublique in Paris.

* **Edit 17:** AFP has a live video feed from the site of the attack: http://bit.ly/1xFWMTX

* **Edit 18:** A witness that saw the gunmen change car in the 19th arrondissement of Paris claims they told him: "Tell the media we're from Al Qaeda in Yemen". http://bit.ly/1HOoT6N

* **Edit 19:** The other dead policeman is a 40-year-old man named Ahmed who came biking from a nearby police station, Le Monde reports.

* **Edit 20:** Massive, spontaneous demonstration at Place de la Rpublique in Paris: http://bit.ly/1wVmezO

* UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-Moon, the President of the European Parliament Martin Schulz, the President of the European Commission Jean-Claude Juncker and US Secretary of State John Kerry have all unanimously condemned the attack.

* **Edit 21:** Hashtag #JeSuisCharlie (I am Charlie) is trending on Twitter to support victims, their families and Charlie Hebdo: http://bit.ly/1DylWF3

* The policeman being shot in the head in a video uploaded earlier on Facebook (I did not provide a link to this video and I did not watch it) is Ahmed, 42. The other dead policeman was 49 and had a daughter. He was part of a police protection service to editor Charb, also killed during the attack. http://bit.ly/14w1fhl

* French Muslim leaders are firmly condemning the attacks. http://bit.ly/142vQlz

* **Edit 22:** The press conference of the public prosecutor will soon begin (scheduled to begin at 5.45 pm local time).

* Le Monde reports that Michel Renaud, member of Charlie Hebdo's editorial board, has been killed during the shooting.

* **Edit 23:** Press conference of public prosecutor Franois Mollins started at 6.11 pm local time:

* Confirms at least 2 gunmen; the shooting started at 11.30 am local time; 2 masked men dressed in black with automatic guns got out of a black Citroen C3 car; walked up to the reception of the building, killed one of the two receptionists; got up to the 2nd floor, to the editorial bord meeting room, shot and killed 10 people, including 8 reporters/cartoonists, 1 guest and 1 policeman who was there for protection services; reportedly shouted "Allah akbar" and "we have avenged the prophet"; fled the scene in the same black car, met up 3 times with police forces, the 3rd time killing another police officer; abandoned the first car, hijacked a Renault Clio, and disappeared.

* Investigation is still ongoing, no further comment to protect the integrity of their work. Witnesses can call +33 (0) 805021717. Autopsies of the bodies will be carried out tomorrow morning. Confirms 12 dead, 11 injured, including 4 in critical condition. The list of victims is being communicated to the Ministry of Justice.

* **Edit 24:** Le Figaro journalist Chlo Woitier reports 5000 people at Place de la Rpublique in Paris, police says. http://bit.ly/142vV8L

* Several newspapers will sport a black front page tomorrow as a tribute to the people who died: here German newspapers and French Libration http://bit.ly/1BzXCTG ; Le Figaro's website http://bit.ly/1yBvy2H

* **Edit 25:** People rally spontaneously throughout France and Europe:

Paris: http://bit.ly/1AssypO

Lyon: http://bit.ly/1s5Yvl5

Toulouse: http://bit.ly/1yBvrEq

Bordeaux: http://bit.ly/1tP5y2P

Marseille: http://bit.ly/1Irx6fF

London: http://bit.ly/14pjnJ1

Brussels: http://bit.ly/1AsspCM

Berlin: http://bit.ly/1Irx1IS

* **Edit 26:** Soren Seelow from Le Monde reports two more names among the dead, cartoonist Honor and proofreader Moustapha: http://bit.ly/1BIJW6D

* **Edit 27:** It's already 7.30 pm here! Richard Malka, Charlie Hebdo's lawyer, promises the next issue of the newspaper will hit the stands next Wednesday as usual. http://bit.ly/1Dm1aeg

* Saudi Arabia, Qatar and Bahrain have all condemned the attack, Le Monde reports.

* **Edit 28:** President Franois Hollande will address the nation on TV at 8 pm local time.

* Radio France, Le Monde and France Tlvisions offer their help to Charlie Hebdo so that it can "continue to live" and to "preserve the principles of independence and freedom of thought and speech, which support our democracy" : http://bit.ly/1xSHgq2

* **Edit 29:** Tomorrow will be a day of national mourning, Franois Hollande says. Flags will be put at half-mast for 3 days. "Our best weapon is our unity." "Nothing should divide us." "Investigations are ongoing under the supervision of the law." "Freedom will always be stronger than brutality."

* Wolinski was one of the cartoonists killed during the shooting. On her Instagram account, his daughter posts the following picture with a caption "Daddy is gone but Wolinski is still here." Saddest thing I've seen all day: http://bit.ly/1BzX3JD

* **Edit 30:** 8.30 pm, last edit! Remember, love is stronger than hate: http://bit.ly/1AGdXpJ

* **Edit 31:** In case you're still following, the 3 suspects have been identified, age 18, 32 and 34: http://bit.ly/1AsDUua A guy on sky news before was claiming the way to stop attacks is the stop the blasphemy. Get fucked. Blasphemy?

Is this the 1500's? &gt;Is this the 1500's?

"No, but we're working on it." --Islam Don't fucking bar free speech because of this or their lives meant nothing. No worry of that in France. I'm watching French News and they're showing every drawing of Mohammed this guy has ever drawn. Wish the same could be said for British media. I don't know how you can have a headline along the lines of 'Terrorist attack on freedom of speech' with a censored picture of one of the cartoons underneath.  Good. &gt;The magazine was fire-bombed in November 2011 a day after it carried a caricature of the Prophet Muhammad.

It means we need to publish more of those.  These attackers are still loose in Paris. Let's hope they are found and stopped somehow before more lives are lost in this madness. My thoughts are with the victims of this attack, both immediate and consequential. If we can't publish satirical media then the terrorists have won.  Look at what Charlie Hebdo tweeted an hour ago

https://twitter.com/Charlie_Hebdo_/status/552773881283764224 Could someone translate/explain this? I tried google translate but I imagine context is needed... Tweet text: "And best wishes, by the way"

Cartoon caption: "Wishes: Al'baghdadi too."

Speech bubble: "And above all else, a good health !" [Just been confirmed the main illustrators (Cabu, Charb and Wolinski) have been pronouced dead.](http://tempsreel.nouvelobs.com/medias/20150107.OBS9449/en-direct-charlie-hebdo-victime-d-une-attaque-a-l-arme-automatique.html)

Don't have a link but medias mention the terrorists asked victims to identifies themself before shooting.

As a French person that supported them when the whole Mohammed thing happened, I am in shock. They were one of the best, most courageous revue and some of the most beloved satiristic illustrators in France

RIP  I literally live in this street, and was at my paren't home today ,scary shit this didn't happen since a long time in Paris... [I've translated 2 caricatures from Charlie Hebdo](http://imgur.com/a/GhKjh) RIP Cabu. Charb. Tignous. Wolinski. 

https://pbs.twimg.com/media/B6wDcmlCcAAx45z.jpg:large [Live English News video stream France24](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BFwedk4dBCc) Damn. If true that 10 people have been murdered and even more so it is an islamic attack for 'the prophet'. This will ignite a powderkeg not only in France but across Europe. This will only be the start of a spiral of violence. 

Edit: Apparently 11 people dead at the moment. Those poor people and to die because of such useless extremist scum from the dark ages.

Edit 2: Apparently 12 now. Fuck this!  These guys publish satire on EVERY. SINGLE. RELIGION. It's kind of fucked up that we don't even need to guess which religion's followers perpetrated the murders. [There's a video of the perpetrators shouting "Alluh Ahkbar"](http://order-order.com/2015/01/07/watch-paris-killers-shouting-allahu-akbar/). No guessing necessary SHOCKED! The concept of killing people for being an infidel is entirely incompatible with modern western society's notion of equality under the law and freedom of expression. Either their backwards religion teachings change to reflect this order or the role of our state is going to be under constant insurrection by this faith. Charb (one of the cartoonists killed today) in 2012: I prefer to die standing than to live on my knees. 

 That cop execution was fucking brutal. I have seen so many fucked up things but that fucking pained me to watch. This is fucking outrageous.  BBC currently calmly talking about the 'intentionally provocative' and 'crude' nature of the magazine. And how some people are 'very sensitive' to this. We are becoming desensitised: Islamists massacre 11 people with automatic rifles in our cities and we mull over the 'provocations' that must have 'driven' them to this.
 Reddit live thread: https://www.reddit.com/live/u7dgd09cgjtx Yeah these guys are "Real Heroes" for defending a religion by killing innocent, unarmed people.  

(Just in case i am being sarcastic, these types of people no matter what religion deserves to be locked up and let the prisoners do the dirty work.)  "Unlimited tolerance must lead to the disappearance of tolerance. If we extend unlimited tolerance even to those who are intolerant, if we are not prepared to defend a tolerant society against the onslaught of the intolerant, then the tolerant will be destroyed, and tolerance with them.  In this formulation, I do not imply, for instance, that we should always suppress the utterance of intolerant philosophies; as long as we can counter them by rational argument and keep them in check by public opinion, suppression would certainly be most unwise. But we should claim the right to suppress them if necessary even by force; for it may easily turn out that they are not prepared to meet us on the level of rational argument, but begin by denouncing all argument; they may forbid their followers to listen to rational argument, because it is deceptive, and teach them to answer arguments by the use of their fists or pistols. We should therefore claim, in the name of tolerance, the right not to tolerate the intolerant. We should claim that any movement preaching intolerance places itself outside the law, and we should consider incitement to intolerance and persecution as criminal, in the same way as we should consider incitement to murder, or to kidnapping, or to the revival of the slave trade, as criminal."

- Karl Popper, "The Open Society and Its Enemies", 1945.
 What a terrible start to the year, i was hoping 2015 was going to have less deaths due to extremism :|. 

Stay strong France I hate to say it, but I think there is just going to be more. :/ Just a suggestion:

Let's save all of the Charlie Hebdo images we can, and fill Reddit/Facebook/imgur/Everywhere with them According to German reports the attackers had (have) Kalashnikovs and a rocket launcher. That's just crazy. [deleted] This morning, I've woken up to a story about a street magician getting his head chopped off in the name of Islam, and now 12 people murdered in the name of Islam for exercising their freedom of speech. What is it going to take for us to start seriously addressing the problem?  I'm a pretty liberal person. Politically, when I lean to the right it tends to be about fiscal issues.

The more this happens, the more I begin to think about things in ways I haven't before. I can't imagine any neutral observer watching this happen time and time again, over and over, and continue to think that defending the all aspects of the religion is what needs to happen. Obviously everyone knows that these people represent only a small fraction of the group, but its becoming more and more clear that there are larger ideas and themes that simply don't mesh with western ideas as we know them.

So how do we change this peacefully? Is it possible? As I watch ISIS terrorize, and I watch these seemingly "individual" attacks occur more frequently... there is a common theme. There is a common denominator, and to ignore it is to willingly blind yourself. Extreme solutions (kick them out! Invade the middle east!) are just as extreme as the perpetrators and are not the Western way. However, political correctness, and continuing to protect and defend ideas that are at war with us, does nothing to fix the problem and move society past this mess.

I don't know what the answer is, but I know I'm not happy about what the current status quo is.

**EDIT:** To clarify, I am suggesting that there needs to be a way to differentiate between the incompatible ideas that these extremists are latching onto, and the generally good intentions and good people that make up the majority of Muslims in the West. It is unfair and unjust to suggest that these attackers are the norm. They are anything but. That said, most people bury their head in the sand or come to the defense of every facet of the religion simply because it is "politically incorrect" to begin to acknowledge that "hey, some of these ideas aren't defensible". 

What I'm saying, is that there are clearly ideas that are polluting a small portion of a major world religion, and these ideas are causing them to commit unthinkable crimes. It is irresponsible to not try to combat these ideas, in the same way that it is irresponsible to try and lump the entire religion in with these monsters.   I am really boiling inside. 

Can't believe this is happening, so devastated on behalf of the victims and their families. 

Anyone aspiring to kill over a fucking religion deserves to be locked up in an asylum. 

_Troglodytes._


RIP. So sad.  Could you imagine something like this happening at the Onion, the Daily Show? Goodness this is just tragic. The Daily Show is far too vanilla. Charlie Hebdo is, or sadly was, a far edgier publication. 

Its a sad day for France, both for today's tragic loss and because of the impact of the probable reaction to it. I am currently at Paris business district la dfense where buses of CRS police officers are unloading. (riot control forces) it seems they have started the high terrorist alert plan

Edit1:
niveau VIGIPIRATE maximum  ALERTE ATTENTAT  Maximum security level in Paris: Attack Alert

In la Dfense business area: 

Our office has received a memo from the district security office
 - All entrances and exit of la Dfense train station are controlled by security staff  
 - Luggage and purses will be checked randomly at the entrance of the building 
 - A main entrance of la Dfense (coupole) is closed for civilian access. 


 I feel as though the western world is approaching a fork in the road with Islam. 

Whilst is it is obvious that not all Muslims should be represented by such a small minority, we cannot keep living like this and allowing these things to happen. You know what... in school sometimes the whole class would get in trouble due to one or two fuckheads acting-up.  Fuck the teachers for doing that, but it certainly gave us all motivation to put pressure on certain people to cut their bullshit so the rest of us could get on with our day.

There's also that scene in Full Metal Jacket which employs the same concept.

At times like this I'm reminded of both. Every newspaper in the world should run the cartoons now. They can't attack us all, those bastards! Is this stuff ever going to end? How do I explain these events to my kids on almost a daily basis? How long are we going to just sit by an continually refuse to acknowledge the common denominator within all of these attacks?

I am tired of waking up every day to read about more innocent people being killed over such bullshit. There are millions of people out there who have different beliefs than me, or people that I genuinely dislike, but I don't go seek them out and kill them. None of these people were causing any harm to anyone. 

However some people seem incapable of keeping to themselves and letting go of what others do with THEIR lives which affects them in no way. I wonder how many more atrocities need to happen before people stop saying "Well, better chalk it up to extremism"...... The guys were said to speak french perfectly without accents, and they wielded those assault rifles expertly. I wouldn't be surprised if they had been fighting in the middle east and have now 'returned home'. The scariest part is that these maniacs are still out there.  Who knows what kind of grand finale they have planned but it certainly won't be turning themselves in.   Pour les franais : si vous pouvez vous le permettre, abonnez-vous  Charlie Hebdo. Mme si c'est pour annuler plus tard, mme si le magazine ou sa ligne ditoriale ne vous plaisent pas.


Quelle meilleure rponse pouvons-nous apporter  cette horreur ? Si Charlie Hebdo ne se relve pas de cette attaque, les terroristes ont gagn. Mais si le lectorat explose et que le magazine ressort de cette tragdie grandi, ils auront perdu.


------

For English speakers: I am urging everyone who can afford it to subscribe to the magazine. If they have to close shop after this attack, the terrorists wins. If the readership and funding increases as a result of this atrocity, they will have lost. The time has come that Europe as a whole needs to realize that this situation has become a serious threat to our society. Thousands of young, brainwashed Europeans willing to kill innocent people are coming back from Syria, where they fought side by side with ISIL. We must not let this happen. Democracy has the right and duty to defend itself.  https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=i-FFx7Xy0Uo

Video of Policeman being attacked/executed. NSFL  The above video shows an execution style close range headshot with an AK.NSFL. Dear God.

Is that a police officer?

EDIT:  This is REALLY NSFL as shows an execution this angers me like none other right now. hope they find these fuckers fast and get rid of them and everyone they're involved with. Terrorist : "*ah you wanted  to kill us ?!*"

Policeman : "*it's ok I'm done*" (FR: "*Non c'est bon chef*", as in, it's ok I give up you win)

---shoot in the head---

Terrorist : "*...was not an algerian ... it's alright/let's go*" (the french "*c'est bon*" in this context could mean "*it's alright*" (because he was not an algerian) or "*it's ok we can leave now*" , hard to tell.
 Oh my God. That poor man's family, to see him die like that... No no no. 

Grief, rage and hopelessness are feelings surely shared by everyone today. &gt;  "was not an algerian it's alright"

.... For people wondering, the guy with the mask says "You wanted to kill us?" while going toward the injured cop. The cop answers "No, it's ok boss." then gets executed. Fuck. I regret watching this. Awful. I've read enough to know that I'm not going to watch that. christ, they executed him then without breaking stride My heart just drops

---

Edit: The weird thing is, I can normally watch and 'not feel bad' when I watch ISIS videos of executions or whatever, but this just seems so much more closer to home. 

Normally those videos are in a the middle of a desert wasteland with nothing in sight, but this is in the middle of a street in a city that looks as if it could be the one I live in (it isn't), and it hits home so much harder. Every newspaper in the world should post mohammed caricatures in protest of this.

Never bow down. Love from India. Hope people over there are safe. Parisian here. Basically, they attacked freedom of speech. Every media (and every individual) in the world should feel concerned...

If any other Parisian hears about a gathering or something to honour the people killed there, please let me know... Every newspaper across the world that stands for freedom of press and free speech should have the mohammed cartoons on their front page tomorrow, in respect and as a protest against this sickening extremism.  Just a quick note from a French guy to explain something.
I'm not going to say that we have to mourn someone and not another victim. I just want to explain how I feel.
Cabu and Wolinski are both equally part of our commun history.
They took part of the early years of Charlie Hebdo and Hara Kiri. They were part of the May 68 events in France.
Cabu was the always laughing, animal loving, against war guy. Very smooth.
Wolinksy was all about girls. And their ass. And love. And why not make love all together.
Cabu even draw cartoons in a Kids TV show in the 80's.
They were, and I realize it today, part of my very own private history. I've got the feeling, deep in my guts, that they thaught me something. And today, someone took them away from me.
If I'm always making fun of sad things. If I'm always thinking that nothing is serious enough for laughs not to be heard. If I think that love may be free, open, an everyday topic. If all this, it's also because of those guys.
I still have in my parent's house old Charlies from the 70's. We knew that we have to keep them like gems. My kiddo will read them. Like the testimony and legacy from a family member who left us too quickly a sad day in January 2015.

(sorry, bad english, emotion, etc.) [deleted] Venger le prophte? Quel imbcile.  Is there a petition anywhere to encourage Western journalism outlets to publish cartoons of Muhammad? Can someone start one, if there isn't? It's time for leading newspapers to grow some balls, right now. Let's punch these bullies in their eyes. https://i.imgur.com/BLGuJuB.jpg For fucks sake why are these Muslim pricks always so easily offended. Big shit if they did a satirical cartoon of your prophet or the IS leader , Allah wouldn't give 2 fucks about that. Don't you think Allah would have a bigger problem with you fucks murdering human beings in cold blood. For fucks sake.  You forgot about torture, slavery, and rape. These extremists love that stuff, too. The problem with these dumb fucks is that stirring up an environment of hatred towards Muslims is exactly what they want.

The more they behave like this, the more strife they create, the more neo-nazis take up arms, the more mosques are bombed, the more young Muslims turn to extremism because they believe their religion is under attack.

It's all part of their recruiting strategy and it serves the haters on both sides, leaving the moderates vulnerable and exposed to attack. Ils voulaient mettre la France  genoux. Ils l'ont mise debout.

They wanted to bring France to its knees. They made it stand up. RIP, as a tribute, one of the cartoon :

http://www.lepoint.fr/images/embed/mahomet-etoile.jpg
 "Mahomet: a star is born! " My uncle is a cartoonist in Paris who specializes in political satire. He worked for this magazine for several years, and knew at least half of the people killed today. Over fucking cartoons. The world has gone mad. Hopefully Charb will not just be remembered in French schools, but in all schools and homes in the free world. 
Vive la Charb! Vive la libert! Here is twits from french muslims on the matter: http://i.imgur.com/ksEgqN9.jpg  
For those who don't read french, it says "Well done", "They deserved it" etc ... What the fuck. [deleted] A good response would be for everyone to share the picture Charlie Hebdo tweeted that instigated this attack...

The Barbara Streisand effect at its most necessary   [deleted] We need another international "draw the prophet muhammad day". That poor cop. The guy just executes him. He wasn't even involved with the magazine. No regard for human life or family. Totally indoctrinated and blank machines of death. I hope they die. Here in bosnia some of them in comment section of news portal are with the terrorist and saying it serves him well for mocking religion. It makes me sick. REMOVE KEBAB ! This isn't going to do much to deter the anti-muslim protests in Germany, they could even expand across Europe.  Can we ask to have the uncensored south park episode where they make fun of Mohammed playing for 24hrs? In the light of recent events I have created the subreddit /r/picsofmohammed where everyone is encouraged to post pictures of Mohammed daily.  http://www.reddit.com/live/u7ghk70v814r/.

Up to date live feed Dutch public broadcaster NOS' live coverage just showed uncensored video of one of the police officers being executed in cold blood.. holy fuck I see people making fun of Christianity daily. In many comics (like CnH), Jesus is portrayed as a pedophile. But, you don't see Christians shooting people in the name of religion.

I see people making fun of Hindu gods/goddesses daily. The recently released movie, pK, made a mockery of Hinduism but, you don't see Hindus blowing up buildings and killing people.

But, make one fuckin' joke on Islam and boom, you are dead!

Edit: grammar [deleted] Apparently the gunmen are still at large.. Stay safe my French brothers and sisters, my thoughts are with you! 

Love from Norway. 


*edit: I a word. Where are the offending images so I may spread them?
 Storming a building and killing unarmed men and women. Fucking cowardly cunts. Disgusting, I'm at loss of words. I hope you are not lost for actions. Goddamn, it is hard enough to defend moderate Islam already. But these kind of guys make it so damn hard. Killing some people because of stupid drawing. We have thousands of funny pictures of Jesus, do you someone get killed because of that.... I think most people have been affirmed that these views and actions are not representative of Islam as a whole however, wider society is greatly concerned over the number who reportedly 'sympathise' with these sorts of viewpoints and I don't think that can simply be shrugged off.

Obviously Jordan and Pakistan are not necessarily representative of viewpoints amongst western Muslims but there are disturbing statistics this side of the fence as well:

* 78% of British Muslims support punishing the publishers of Muhammad cartoons. (NOP Research)
http://www.cbsnews.com/stories/2006/08/14/opinion/main1893879.shtml&amp;date=2011-04-06
http://www.webcitation.org/5xkMGAEvY

* One third of British Muslims believe anyone who leaves Islam should be killed. (Policy Exchange)
http://www.civitas.org.uk/pdf/ShariaLawOrOneLawForAll.pdf

* 11% of British Muslims find violence for religious or political ends acceptable. (ICM Poll)
http://www.icmresearch.co.uk/reviews/2004/Guardian%20Muslims%20Poll%20Nov%2004/Guardian%20Muslims%20Nov04.asp
http://www.danielpipes.org/blog/2005/07/more-survey-research-from-a-british-islamist

This is alarming and I don't think it's reasonable for us to continue pretending that these viewpoints are reserved for a minority of extremist, hardliners. They're demonstrably quite representative amongst a significant portion of localised Muslim populations, Western and otherwise.

I applaud Muslims who stand up and state that these viewpoints do not represent them but I think the leaders of this religion need to make an extraordinarily motivated effort to stand with them and state for the world, and its congregations that this type of 8th century barbarism is not compatible with the modern world, is not supported by doctrine and needs to be stamped out. So far, unfortunately, all we tend to see are pockets of the community complaining about 'islamaphobia' and how they're just a handful of bad apples. They're clearly not and we need to stand together to sort through that problem. A couple of days ago, I saw [this video on Reddit of a "Muslim Peace Conference"](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=tpeIS25jhK4). Basically, the speaker polls the crowd and concludes that these are not extremist views, they are commonly held views of ordinary Muslims. It's chilling.
 Absolutely terrifying.  Damn that's scary. So much brainwashing in one room... Wow. This is pretty telling. Yes these extremists don't live in vacuums. Most muslims will never harm another life but with these kinds of views, it makes things easier for the actual violent extremists to grow and prosper among them. Exhibit A. Where they came from What's even more worrying is that these extremist views are actually MORE prevelant in the younger generation of British muslims. The view of academics and politicians has been that exposure to our western values and culture would ensure that successive generations would become increasingly secular, liberal and integrated when in reality the opposite is happening. I think this has shocked the powers that be and they're still struggling to understand the potential ramifications of it and work out a way to reverse it. I'm not a far right nutter but unless they get a grip on it pretty fuckin fast we're going to have some problems down the line. I can't actually find the poll results from your first two links. And as for the last one, you can get 11% of any group to agree on anything. For the first link, see page 18 of:

http://www.stranieriinitalia.it/news/indaginegfk22nov2006.pdf

For the source of the second link, see page 47 of http://www.policyexchange.org.uk/images/publications/living%20apart%20together%20-%20jan%2007.pdf Hey, thanks! This first link is really fascinating. Just some casual observations:

* Sample size is 1,000. Without info on how these people were found, it's hard to say if this size is large enough and if there was any selection bias.
* 48% of respondents never attend a mosque. And yet 93% say religion is all important. 
* I'd love to see other demographics on the "Would you say Britain is 'My country'/'their country'? question! 49% say my country, but is that low?
* There's an inverse relation between age and feeling of belonging in Britain. That is, older Muslims feel more integrated. I wonder why that is? Perhaps Muslim youths feel marginalized?
* **This is the most interesting point that counters "they need to integrate/assimilate more!!"**: "To what extent do you agree with the idea that Muslims 
should keep themselves separate from non-Muslims?" 81% strongly disagree, with another 13% that "tend to disagree." "Even amongst those Muslims 
who would prefer to live under a 
system of Sharia law this is an 
unpopular sentiment (only 7% 
agree)." This is huge!
* **Here's the poll that OP referenced:** 78% agreed with "Punish the people who published the cartoons" and 68% agreed with "British people who insult Islam should be arrested and prosecuted." BUT, 68% agreed with "Throw out religious leaders who support
terrorism" and the same amount agree with "Papers did the right thing to expose Iraqi abuse." So it's not as clear cut as just using the first poll question. I think there's more at work here, perhaps a strong feeling of persecution and intolerance in a country you call home?
* This is wild: Look at page 20 for a definition of a Staunch defenders of Islam. (not Hardcore Islamists) **38% of 18-24 year olds compared to only 15% of Muslims aged 45+ fall into this 
category!** What is going on here?
* First generation Muslims are most 
likely to say that they havent heard 
of the Holocaust (28% compared to 
13% of Second generation Muslims)
* **Half of Muslims aged 18-24 (51%) feel that 
9/11 was a conspiracy**, this proportion drops to 
43% amongst those aged 25-44 and 45+

I need to find some more studies on this! Edit: That second one is even more detailed! Do similar polls in America and you'll find similar results. Lots of people support eugenics too.  It seems that most people are naturally ethnocentric and they support any measure that appears to help "us" and they don't care what it would do to "them". 

To combat this , the only way is education (probably though the form of places like Reddit!) and discussion so that people realize that people with different skin and different ethnicity are actually all the same humans.

Posts like yours on this thread just go against it, you are trying to strengthen the divide between "us" and "them" which is the root cause of terrorism.

 &gt; continue pretending that these viewpoints are reserved for a minority of extremist, hardliners. They're demonstra

Why don't the leaders of Islam take away the Muslim status of these extremists and proclaim them as atheists or whatever? That will be a good punishment for those who want to do something like that. &gt; 11% of British Muslims find violence for religious or political ends acceptable. (ICM Poll)

What kind of stupid statistic is that? There's probably a majority of Brits who support violence towards political ends, hence military action in Afghanistan, Iraq, Libya, Syria, the Falklands, WW2, etc. etc. I associate this attack to moderate and fundamentalists Muslims. "Moderate" is different for them than it is for non muslims.  Except those polls have been debunked. The questions were vague and then sensationalist headlines were made from them. 

Point one is a wash since they can believe that people should be punished all they want. 

Point 2 is a question about sharia law. They were asked do you want sharia law. 38% said yes and it then got twisted to 38% want leavers to be killed since it is a part of sharia law. Sensationalist bollox. 

Point 3 you numbers are wrong it is 4 % as shown int he link you provided. 4% of any population believes crazy ass shit whether they be muslim or not so again it is not atypical

Basically you are trying to shit stir with bs stats  &gt; Point 2 is a question about sharia law. They were asked do you want sharia law. 38% said yes and it then got twisted to 38% want leavers to be killed since it is a part of sharia law. Sensationalist bollox.

No. This is what was asked. *Exactly*:

&gt; The following is a list of laws that are defined in most scholarly
interpretations of sharia law. Please say if you personally agree or
disagree with the law mentioned

&gt; "That Muslim conversion is forbidden and punishable by death"

&gt; Agree: 31%

http://www.policyexchange.org.uk/images/publications/living%20apart%20together%20-%20jan%2007.pdf, page 47. 
 &gt; hey were asked do you want sharia law. 38% said yes and it then got twisted to 38% want leavers to be killed since it is a part of sharia law.

How is this "sensationalist"? As far as I know you can't take your legal system a-la-carte. If you support a law that wants to kill apostates, you support the killing of apostates, simple as that.
 Sharia exists in this country already. Or rather a version of it does. You can already choose to live under sharia and be bound by sharia courts if you so wish to. It does not supersede english law but does exist. 

There are many different versions of sharia law around the world. The people who run the country can set the law any way they please all they have to do is get religious leaders to find president in the koran and poof anything is sharia. 

To live under sharia to a muslim is to live under gods rules. Which is exactly what christians jews and any other religion does. There are also portions of those religions who want everybody to have to live under the religious rules as written in the origins yet no one allows that.

To take the bastardized of Islam that is spouted by terrorist and dictators and use that to wash a whole religion is exactly what they do to get new followers with us. 

Take the extreme views paint them as the normal views and make people angry enough to hate and to fight. The only place that leads is death bloodshed and losses on all sides. 

Hatred and fear will not fix this problem. But hey that isn't a popular opinion so fuck it lets all get angry and cause WW3 &gt;Sharia exists in this country already.

It shouldn't [deleted] The drawing is not stupid, though. It's satire.

Don't try to defend the attacks by saying the victims were killed because of 'stupid' drawings. There's no reason to defend even moderate Islam. It has no purpose in the world in 2015. What is moderate Islam?  I personally do not know any Muslims, but the Christian equivalent are people who practice privately and use their beliefs to improve the quality of life of other people (charity, guidance, empathy, etc.) and not kill in the name of the belief. I'm not suprised you don't know any Muslims, because a moderately practicing Muslim is the exact same as how you described a Christian. Normal, nice people who go about their own thing and don't bring religion up as a daily issue. /r/worldnews is filled with people who have no first hand expierence on most subjects, but talk like they do. So why would he say there is no purpose for moderate Muslims?  Because people can provide those quality of life improvements without a need for religious belief.  In case it wasn't clear, I also mean there's no reason to defend moderate Christianity either... or any other religion. People can do these things because it's the humane thing to do, no need for supernatural deities.

The key is that it's obvious that Islam has more extremists, so it's "easier" to defend a moderate of ANOTHER religion, even if that defense isn't needed. &gt;No place for moderate islam in modern world.

&gt;doesn't know any muslims 

Mfw Whenever I read stories like this, all I can think about is how idiot bigots are going to pretend it represents all 1.5 billion Muslims on Earth. I already see it in this thread. 

The reasons people do this kind of shit are complicated. And the roots of it actually have fuckall to do with Islam so much as geopolitics. Just because religion got tied into it doesn't change this. 

But ya know, let's just go and beat up some Muslim kids and shit because they didn't "speak up" or some shit. And ya know what the irony is? The ISIS types are banking on that. They *know* that Europeans and Americans don't know fuckall about Islam or Muslims and are going to just lump them altogether. They're going to politically attack them, gangs of hooligans are going to get drunk and walk into Muslim neighborhoods and terrify people, the police are going to humiliate random people, and the entire society is going to turn on a Muslim minority. 

Then where are those people going to go but to extremists? 

"See how the atheists and Christians treat you! They don't give a damn about you, we're fighting for you!"

Islamophobia is ironically the biggest recruitment tool extremists have. 

Europe, these people know you better then you know yourselves. They know what your reaction is already. And they're smiling. They *want* you to hate Muslims. It justifies their existence. 

But none of you are going to listen, are you? 

Go harass Muslims and vote for far right shitheads. See how far it gets you. Your bigotry makes you a pawn.  &gt; Whenever I read stories like this, all I can think about is how idiot bigots are going to pretend it represents all 1.5 billion Muslims on Earth. I already see it in this thread.

Nobody is saying that, but it is undeniable that "moderate" Islam is a more extreme form of religion than western countries have grown accustom to. Christianity and Judaism has mellowed over the centuries in the West, Islam has not followed this pattern. 

&gt;Islamophobia is ironically the biggest recruitment tool extremists have.

The answer is not to do nothing, to say nothing when things like this happen. People have a right to be angry when journalists are attacked in this way, and have a right to ask the question "does the way Islam is taught and spread in the West have a part to play in why this happened?" This question can be answered peacefully, but if you bury your head in the sand and say that Islam has nothing to do with it, you force people to bury their fears and worries, and they manifest themselves in more violent ways.  Whenever there is a terrorist attack, why is moderate Muslims' anger *immediately* directed at the expected future reaction of Islamophobes, and not at the fucking animals who commit these attacks and continue to ruin the reputation of Islam? [deleted] Imams can call ISIS members "non-Muslims" all they want, but that doesn't change the fact that they are all indeed Muslims. Extremist Muslims, but still Muslims. Pretending they aren't just obfuscates the issue. The point is that they are not identifying with them. These people are showing that they are not in support of ISIS.  Which is absolutely a good thing. I'm just saying that pretending that ISIS members aren't Muslims is ignoring a crucial part of ISIS; that is, the fact that they are Islamic. Just because their interpretation of the Koran and the hadiths differs from the mainstream, moderate interpretation does not mean they aren't Muslims. What's your point? 

&gt; Pretending they aren't just obfuscates the issue.

If you talk about an 'issue', then you'll have to clarify what that issue is or why it is obfuscated. Leaving everyone to guess what you meant and throwing buzzwords on the internet in hopes of internet points help no one and are wastes of time. So if an atheist were to start bombings cars and buildings and killing people, you want me to start attacking all the atheists as being violent or just the ones who incited teh terrorism? Because if it's a latter, then that's hypocritical. How can you be a Muslim if you don't practice the religion correctly at all? the 'extremists' are practising islam in it's truest form. What it means to practice Islam correctly is dependent on a lot of things for different people. Different interpretations of passages in the Koran or the hadiths, whether they're Sunni or Shi'a, etc. Extremist groups focus heavily on certain parts of the Islamic faith while conveniently ignoring others, much like other religious practitioners do worldwide. It just happens that these groups focus on the "kill the infidels" part rather than the more cheery, upbeat sections. If your holy scripture mentions killing nonbelievers then your religion is made of shit. I wholeheartedly agree. I think raping little girls, beheading children and killing Muslims are things imams around the world would say clearly constitute a Non Muslim. Worked for Muhammad. [deleted] [deleted] So I guess the fact all the attacks on protestants had nothing to do with religion, huh?  [deleted] Christianity doesn't teach it's adherents to hate and kill non believers.

Islam does. I never said all Muslims are terrorists. Nice strawman bro. [deleted] Members of the IRA or LRA are terrorists, and it stems directly from their religion much like it does for members of ISIS or Boko Haram. That's the point: the religion is a cause behind the extremism. Not the only one by any means, but it's still there and shouldn't be dismissed as though it isn't. Holy shit, did I just like something that the Sun did? I feel dirty. &gt;  but nobody listens.

Because people lie. The Imams are like a mother lying to the police that her child is an angel and would never do such a thing. Then they scold their child in private for bringing the attention. [deleted] Because the Islamophobic fascist nitwits will be the ones kicking down their door. 

That and they always do "speak out", like somebody else already said Because you don't see people hating on 1.5billion people when a psychopath goes on a massacre. I can only speak for myself:

I stopped using up all my vitriol against these psychopaths a little while ago. Whenever I hear something like this happen, I can only muster a resigned "I hope they eat shit, I guess." This is because by the time I get to see the Islamophobic comments on reddit (or anywhere else), I won't feel emotionally drained, so I can read them (and get angry at them) without "giving up", so to speak.

Let me generalise now: For muslims, they know that even if they condemn and use up their hate and anger against the terrorists, Islamophobes will still attack them, and they won't feel that their righteous anger has been even recognised. So they go on the defensive immediately, because *that* kind of frustration won't be just recognised, but vindicated. On your last point, it can be seen by the 'Fuck all muslims' vibe in these comments.

 christianity has not "mellowed". It has lost power.  
If it wasn't for the enlightenment, if it wasn't for people fighting back against christian oppression, people like me would still be burned at the stake.  
No, it has not mellowed. It has been forced to adapt to a society that would not accept its violent ways anymore. At the core, it has not changed. &gt; christianity has not "mellowed". It has lost power.

Both have happened. 

&gt;No, it has not mellowed. It has been forced to adapt to a society that would not accept its violent ways anymore. At the core, it has not changed.

One of the ten commandments: 

"You shall not make unto yourself any graven image, or any likeness of any thing that is in heaven above, or that is in the earth beneath, or that is in the water under the earth": Exodus 20:4 King James Bible.

Is exactly the same message Muslims have about not creating an image of their prophet. Which group has historically reacted worse to images of their God/Prophet being created? Clearly Christianity has become less extreme over the years.  Yes, but not by choice, christianity is "not as extreme" as it was because it was forced to by a secular uprising.    
And look to the US, christianity has regained power since the red scare and once again is starting to discriminate against the usual targets.    
  
The doctrine hasn't changed, though. &gt; Nobody is saying that,

Yes they are. 

&gt;[]Zorthianator 88 points an hour ago 
The religion of peace strikes again. All this because of a fucking cartoon? How can this act be excused?

-

&gt;[]steelnuts 13 points 36 minutes ago 
Islam is a death cult that needs to be banned.

-

&gt;[]repux 49 points an hour ago 
Ah yes. Islam, the religion of peace. I wonder who is behind this.


Those are just the ones I have read.  If I were a Muslim in Europe I would be terrified. 

 Every one of those is suggesting that Islam as it is taught in the West is  incomparable with Western values. They do not suggest that all Muslims are violent, but that what is taught will bring out violence and anger in many of the people who listen to it.  &gt; Nobody is saying that

rofl

 &gt; Whenever I read stories like this, all I can think about is how idiot bigots are going to pretend it represents all 1.5 billion Muslims on Earth. I already see it in this thread.

Who is saying that Tom the Muslim accountant who lives down the street should be rounded up because he is as dangerous as the people who committed this crime?  &gt;Nobody is saying that, but it is undeniable that "moderate" Islam is a more extreme form of religion than western countries have grown accustom to

Be honest, how many Muslims do you know? How many religious christians? 

I've met more crazy Pentecostals then crazy Muslims. At least the Muslims don't let themselves get bit by poisonous snakes in church because they think god will save them. 

&gt;to say nothing when things like this happen

Grieve, but don't let sadness and anger take you to hell. 

&gt; People have a right to be angry when journalists are attacked in this way

Sure they do. But acting on it isn't always wise. 

&gt;"does the way Islam is taught and spread in the West have a part to play in why this happened?" 

Extremism doesn't spread in a vaccuum. A better question would be, why do so many young Muslim people feel so cut off from society that they turn to this in order to find a sense of meaning? You can find studies and the like on the psychology of these types of people, and it's usually the same thing. Poor, neglected, mistreated, insecure, alienated...religion provides comfort, society provides things to be angry about. Mix the two together and you get this shit. 

I've read the Quran and I studied Islamic law in school. I'm not expert, but I know enough about it to know it's not Mein Kampf unless people make it that way. And when people *do* make it that way they pretty much always have a lot more on their mind then god.  Pentecostals don't support state-santionced execution against those leaving the faith/adulterers. They are nowhere near as crazy as hundreds of millions of muslims are.

Acting on it is the only protection us Europeans can get. If we do nothing, these mongrels will keep destroying our peaceful societies. &gt;Be honest, how many Muslims do you know? How many religious christians?

I went to University with a large Muslim community. I lived with two Muslims for 2 years while there. Smart, well educated, western Muslims. I saw first hand how a religious Leader can poison the mind of an otherwise intelligent person. 

&gt;Grieve, but don't let sadness and anger take you to hell.

Then jut wait for it to happen again? How do you prevent future attacks?

&gt;Extremism doesn't spread in a vaccuum. A better question would be, why do so many young Muslim people feel so cut off from society that they turn to this in order to find a sense of meaning? 

Many do not, but for those that do, at least in my country, I can say that immigrants tend to group together, and this has lead in many places to very isolated, close knit communities forming. In these communities, English is often spoken as a second language, and the young people there often suffer from a lack of exposure to the western values of the country they are living. Religious ideas can spread quickly and easily in these communities. 

&gt;You can find studies and the like on the psychology of these types of people, and it's usually the same thing. Poor, neglected, mistreated, insecure, alienated...religion provides comfort, society provides things to be angry about. Mix the two together and you get this shit.

This explain only one small group of extremists. I have suggested to you myself my own experience of seeing extremism spread amongst University students. There were not "poor" or "neglected" people. How do you explain them? What bout the kid that run off to join ISIS, then realise they want to come home, how do you explain them?

For me the problem seems to come down to how the religion is taught. Imams, and nowadays probably on line preachers are the main cause of the spread of violent ideas between western Muslims. That is what needs to be stopped. 
 &gt;I saw first hand how a religious Leader can poison the mind of an otherwise intelligent person. 

I've seen politicians do this, I've seen money do this, I've seen nationalism, fear, and plain stupidity do this. Islam isn't special. Thing is, we don't ask questions when our government drone strikes a couple kids in Pakistan into oblivion. To us that's justifiable because we need to fight "the enemy", right? 

What I'm getting at is that violence, horror, and cruelty are universal in the world. We commit acts of barbarism just as much as Al Qaeda. But we cloak it in nationalistic or security-minded language so we don't mind. Al Qaeda does the same thing, it just pretends it's part of gods plan. 

Our minds can be poisoned by a lot of cancerous ideologies. Islamism isn't special. You just don't hear about the dead kids in Pakistan. 

&gt;How do you prevent future attacks?

Ask yourself what makes people join these groups. Attempts to smash insurgency using military force are pretty much universal failures. And really, if these people want to attack you, they'll do it. They'll find a way. 

Security doesn't really exist. 

&gt;I can say that immigrants tend to group together, and this has lead in many places to very isolated, close knit communities forming.

No shit, people live around people who speak the same language. 

People used this same kind of logic to justify bigotry against the Irish in America also. Benjamin Franklin said the same shit about the Germans. 

I notice people keep wanting immigrants to show up in countries and then renounce every aspect of their identity. Well,  it doesn't work like that. Fuck, Irish Americans still don't shut the fuck up about how Irish they are...just look at St. Patricks day

&gt;This explain only one small group of extremists. I have suggested to you myself my own experience of seeing extremism spread amongst University students. There were not "poor" or "neglected" people. How do you explain them?

Being financially poor is only part of it. People can turn to this shit for a lot of reasons. But no, reading the Quran doesn't magically make people want to blow themselves up. 

 I have read your excuses and noticed you did not propose any sort of resolution. What do you suggest happens? Should we just let it slide because we did this to the poor savages?  &gt;I've seen politicians do this, I've seen money do this, I've seen nationalism, fear, and plain stupidity do this. Islam isn't special.

Each of those points is it's own separate problem, and should be treated as such. Just because there are many problems, does not mean we should give up and say there is nothing that can be done. We should fight back when politicians try to corrupt the minds of people with lies and deceit, and we should do the same with religious leaders.

&gt;Being financially poor is only part of it. People can turn to this shit for a lot of reasons. But no, reading the Quran doesn't magically make people want to blow themselves up.


I have never suggested it did. I believe the problem lies with how Islam is taught in the west. Imams and religious leaders teach a violent, closed minded form of the religion that is incompatible with western values. It is allowed to incubate within closed migrant communities, which are not exposed to western values, and so becomes a breading ground for extremists.  &gt; I've met more crazy Pentecostals then crazy Muslims. At least the Muslims don't let themselves get bit by poisonous snakes in church because they think god will save them.

When was the last time a group of Pentecostals carried out some beheadings or terrorist attacks? It's because people are getting tired of Islamic apologists. We've been getting fed the same excuses for the past fifteen years and every time something like this happens it doesn't make it any easier to except that view point.  You are just wrong. Period. There are other groups that face far more persecution and poverty than Muslims. The Tibetans' culture and religion is brutally disrespected by the Chinese, yet they respond only with self-immolation. It takes a holy book that commands you to kill and subjugate to incite this kind of behavior. Moreover, the 9/11 hijackers were all educated, from middle class families. It's not about the politics; you simply refuse to believe that people can actually believe that killing others is a service to God.  &gt;The Tibetans' culture and religion is brutally disrespected by the Chinese, yet they respond only with self-immolation

Actually, they riot and burn shit frequently. But keep pretending Buddhists are peaceful. 

For the record, Buddhists in Burma are pretty much openly genocidal against the Muslim minority. 

&gt;you simply refuse to believe that people can actually believe that killing others is a service to God. 

A "service to god" that just so happens to involve creating an Islamic state in the middle east free of western influence..not political at all, no.. [deleted] Get off your soap box, pretending that muslims are the victims here. Instead of looking toward the people who got killed, you're trying to console the people of the religion that inspired this. Yea, it's the same religion. Fuck that No True Scotsman garbage. You don't even blame these people for what they did, you start going on about bigotry. Because that's more important to you than people getting killed. I think the rest of the thread speaks to the horror. I completely agree with him. I am appalled by these barbaric actions but we need to stand with our moderate Muslim brothers, not cast them in with the extremists. Look at post-9/11 America with the patriot act and bullying of Muslims. Fuck that. Saying that the 1.2 Billion Muslims are somehow complicit with ISIS is like saying the billions of Christians are comparable to Westboro Baptist Church. Be mad at extremists but don't let that be an excuse for racism, xenophobia, and the rise of Far Right political parties all across Europe.  You're absolutely right. This thread is horrifying.  Wow dude, that is not what he is saying!  He is saying our reactions (and actions) play directly into the hands of the extremists who carry out shit like this.  The vicious circle continues.  I feel terribly sorry for the victims and their families who had no part in this.

I do however blame the politicians and powers that be all over the world who create (directly or by proxy) this animosity that has grown between different groups of people, for their own interests.

I try to zoom out from the situation and look at it from a high level.  *Lots* of people die in terrible ways every week from the consequences of our actions, and people here don't blink an eye to it.  When it happens over here, *outrage*; and I mean outrage in the strongest sense of the word.  We are so content exploiting other people but when it happens to us we fall apart, react in the worst possible way (sheer anger), and never look at the history as to why things are the way they are. More Muslims are killed in terrorist attacks than anyone else in the world these days.  
Just because you don't here the specifics of domestic terrorism (radicals against local Muslims) in the Middle East doesn't mean it isn't happening.  
The everyone should get off the soapbox and try to separate Islam from these attacks in their mind. Any religion could be bastardised and radicalised to convince people to commit atrocities. Yeah, screw that guy. How dare he try to stop people from being islamophobic and stop hatred and bigotry? The nerve. You do realize that Islamic scriptures are filled with xenophobia, hatred, and bigotry, right?

Hate bounces, bitch. &gt;  And the roots of it actually have fuckall to do with Islam 

BULLSHIT. It has everything to do with their religion. They wouldn't do this if they didn't think it was the right thing for their ~~god~~ sky fairy.  &gt;And the roots of it actually have fuckall to do with Islam 

What's the point in even arguing with you when you say something like this? It has everything to do with Islam.  &gt;Whenever I read stories like this, all I can think about is how idiot bigots are going to pretend it represents all 1.5 billion Muslims on Earth. I already see it in this thread. 

Reasons why most Muslims don't kill is that regardless of what Islam may or may not teach know it's wrong to kill over religion.  Most people know deep down that if God wanted people killed for not believing in him, then he's capable of doing the job himself. As individuals, Muslims make their own choices about which parts of their religion they practice and which they would rather dismiss under the heading of "context". Although believers may think or say whatever they want to about Islam, it doesn't change what Islam says about itself.

&gt;Just because religion got tied into it doesn't change this. 

No. The reason why religion got tied into it is because that is the association that the terrorists themselves make. Of course, I'm not denying that socioeconomics doesn't play a role, but the root cause is Islam.

Your entire post points out the dangers of generalising communities of people and then...

&gt;Europeans and Americans don't know fuckall about Islam or Muslims and are going to just lump them altogether


 The problem is that not only a few thousand muslims are extremists, there are hundreds of MILLIONS of muslims who support execution for adulterers/those leaving the faith.

Voting for the far right is not going to worsen our situation noticeably, since we Europeans aren't the ones having violent conflicts and a total reliance on oil to keep our economies up.

The only ones who can lose on this deal are the muslims, no matter what happens. Either they get their act together or they don't, there is no middle ground. none of the shit u said makes most people extremist. it takes more to push the common person to commit such acts. these kinds of acts are largely cultural this honor bullshit that has yet to die in everybody but thugs and the uneducated. when japanese americans where put in camps during ww2 we didn't have a flood of extremist come from it and i assure you they were treated far worse than muslims are today. you make excuses for a problem too complex to attribute to a single thing. while islamophobia is a big part of their recruitment tool, sheer lack of education is a far greater tool. just look at the people joining them from the west, a bunch of dumbass kids who sometimes don't realize how heartless these extremist are and regret it. Whenever I read stories like this I expect people like you

And I yawn. And move on. [deleted] &gt; And you're getting gold for that shit?

With some demographics all you need to do is cry about bigotry and people will immediately support you.

And in this case it's crazy ironic since they are defending the most right-wing, bigoted religion on the planet.  A religion where a nontrivial percentage will actively try to kill you for insulting it. Big difference between wanting a cartoonist to be prosecuted for mocking their religion, and wanting them shot dead.  You're a [laughingstock](http://www.reddit.com/r/bad_religion/comments/2rmynk/oooh_boy_more_fun_with_rworldnews/). I'm not a Muslim. 

&gt;I'm all for the recent sweep of Nationalism going on across Europe

Nationalism is a disease. It's never given humanity anything but misery. 

&gt;we don't give a shit if you feel like a victim, we care about actual victims right now. 

The only actual victim is the entire human race, because it has to suffer people like you actually being allowed to vote.  [deleted] http://www.edchange.org/multicultural/speeches/emma_goldman_patriotism.html

&gt; conceit, arrogance and egotism are the essentials of patriotism. Let me illustrate. Patriotism assumes that our globe is divided into little spots, each one surrounded by an iron gate. Those who have had the fortune of being born on some particular spot consider themselves nobler, better, grander, more intelligent than those living beings inhabiting any other spot. It is, therefore, the duty of everyone living on that chosen spot to fight, kill and die in the attempt to impose his superiority upon all the others. The inhabitants of the other spots reason in like manner, of course, with the result that from early infancy the mind of the child is provided with blood-curdling stories about the Germans, the French, the Italians, Russians, etc. When the child has reached manhood he is thoroughly saturated with the belief that he is chosen by the Lord himself to defend his country against the attack or invasion of any foreigner. It is for that purpose that we are clamoring for a greater army and navy, more battleships and ammunition...


Emma Goldman wrote that almost a hundred years ago. And she was right. Nationalism is a tool of the state, and it inherently views one group of people as lesser then another. It's xenophobic and militaristic at heart. 

Nationalism is what got people in my neighborhood blown up in Iraq. 

&gt;What is fucking wrong with you? I'm advocating against a dangerous religion, I'm not advocating genocide.

I'm not going to argue with you on the finer points of Islam. Your mind is already made up. 

As for genocide, how do you think it starts? 

With attitudes like yours. 
 &gt;Nationalism is a disease. It's never given humanity anything but misery.

And what has Islam given humanity? I can't think of one single thing.

I can think of things they robbed us of though, such as works of art of 3000 years old.  I can 

http://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_inventions_in_the_medieval_Islamic_world Thanks for the link.  Well said. Nothing to do with religion? Bullshit. Yes it's complicated.

Who are the real Muslims? These? The most moderate? The ones you defend? Sunnis? Shias? Who decides this? What is a real Muslim?

We need to stop with this crap. These were Muslims. Are all Muslims like this? No. The great majority aren't. I've lived in a Muslim majority country. Are all Christians like the Westbroro baptist church? No. The sooner we admit there is a problem with some aspects of Islam, the sooner we can get over this. The problem is Islam in Western Culture. The solution isn't to generalize or to grab a pitchfork, but ignoring it is foolish and makes you sound like you just want to give a contrary opinion to sound clever. &gt; all I can think about is how idiot bigots are going to pretend it represents all 1.5 billion Muslims on Earth.

And how many of those 1.5 billion people believe, that you should be punished for drawing a picture of a Mohammad? Let me say straight off extremism in all forms, both from all the religions and non religious types is the cancer of the human race.

I don't care what side you're on or ideology you're all part of the problem if your solution is hate and killing people who have other point of views.

With that said however it saddens me that so many in this thread, while feeling rightfully disgusted and angry at these events are so quick to jump on the 'hate all Muslims for the actions of their extremists' bandwagon.

Guess what if you do that you're fucking extremists too, and views like this are a likely catalyst for possible race/civil wars across Europe.

Before you start with 'my religion doesn't do..' I suggest you check your history books. For example in my lifetime in England, the IRA were bombing crowded areas of civilians over religious and nationalist ideals. I don't blame all of the Irish for that, or the Catholics.

I blame the sick idiots who do this stuff!

Edit: In case it wasn't clear I agree with the above posters comments, although I also agree with others that thoughts right now should be with the people affected in this tragedy. It just saddens me how so many posters don't seem to see their own extremism.

 Okay, buddy.... Whatever makes you sleep at night. 12 people just lost their lives over satirical drawings. No other religion enables shit like this. &gt; No other religion enables shit like this.

I guess you aren't familiar with abortion clinic bombings in the US.  Meh. Per the West Wing: "Islamic Extemism is to Islam as the KKK is to Christianity." Except, Christianity has softened significantly over the past century, moulding itself into modern society - their extremists are perceived as being worlds apart from the church today. Unfortunately the countries most overtly propping up the pillars of Islam are the kind of backward, disturbingly conservative and morally corrupt regimes that revel in perpetuating Mohammad's most moronic teachings. Lose the ninja outfits and drink some beer, you might appear a bit less monstrous in the 21st Century.  A lot of those countries were actually pretty moderate in the 70s. Beer was readily available and they were quite progressive towards women's rights. This strand of conservative Islam is not as deeply ingrained in the culture as people think. Wow! You actually tried to defend or mask this behavior. Shift the blame a little, and everything is okay. How am I defending the murder of innocent people? All I said was that it's easy to exploit because people let their fear and bigotry control them.  It does not represent but at the same time you don't hear Muslims denouncing them, you don't see Muslims looking to rehab this brainwashed ppl There are Muslims in Syria shooting them. 

Good enough for you?  They aren't shooting them because of the terrorist acts they commit, they are shooting them over territorial disputes. There's a saying in Spanish:
"Pagan justos por pecadores"
That means: 
"The righteous pay for the sinners"
Don't complain when the world will wake up and start killing Muslims way more then what they are killing themselves.
 The people who go attack muslims because some terrorist killed people in islams name and the terrorists themselves are the same type of people. People know that these people dont represent everyone is islam the same way the westboro babtist church doesnt represent christianity. But it still taints the religion. A few bad apples can spoil the bunch. Religion in general is too archaic in my opinion. Leaves too much to the imagination so you have 50 different interpretations of the same religion and they all fight eachother claiming to be the right one.

By the way buddy, most of what you said is just bullshit, but im sure you know that since you wrote it. I agree with your entire post. And yet I feel that people also have a right to be angry. So what should they do instead? Join the army? Go terrorist hunting? I think that while Islamophobia may be the best recruiting tool, there must be some kind of enablers out there that can be dealt with by the authorities. But they don't do anything. This is the concern and most likely the reason why people look to the right for solutions. They feel nothing is being done. And honestly, you may wish to separate moderate Islam. But this Shit is happening in their house. So they all need to take responsibility. Where are the moderate Islamic whistleblowers? Why aren't other Islamic people doing anything about this? Clean up their own Fucking mess, you know? Or someone else who is less educated and more angry is going to try to do it for you. Anger doesn't solve anything but doing nothing definitely doesn't solve anything either. At least anger may serve to bring about change. Then again is Paris about to turn into the next Gaza strip? The answer is, and always has been, proper education. Excellent post.  I completely agree. &gt; The reasons people do this kind of shit are complicated. And the roots of it actually have fuckall to do with Islam so much as geopolitics.

If that were true then you would see Buddhist beheading Russians in the street of Moscow over the Kremlin's support of Chinese policies. You'd have Hindu terrorist attacks in the US over Washington's support of Pakistan. And the UK would be under constant threat from Argentinian suicide bombers.

Islam is a special case. It's a religion that requires you to categorize people into Muslims (us) and non-Muslims (them). Thus it becomes really easy to convince naive people to attack their own country-men in their own country in order to get revenge over something that happened half-the-world away. &gt;If that were true then you would see Buddhist beheading Russians in the street of Moscow over the Kremlin's support of Chinese policies. You'd have Hindu terrorist attacks

Buddhists and Hindus murder people all the time. Hell, in Vietnam Buddhists were killing Americans for more then 10 years, brutally

&gt;Islam is a special case. It's a religion that requires you to categorize people into Muslims (us) and non-Muslims (them)

Okay, so it's like every other religion? 

&gt;Thus it becomes really easy to convince naive people to attack their own country-men in their own country in order to get revenge over something that happened half-the-world away.

You mean like when soccer hooligans in Germany beat the shit out of an Arab kid for no reason other then that he has the wrong skin tone and worships the wrong god?  &gt; in Vietnam Buddhists were killing Americans for more then 10 years

Never said Buddhist don't kill people. But what you don't see is American born-and-raised Buddhist going around killing people in the streets of United States because someone insulted their belief. Same can be said about Hindus, Jains,  Taoist, Sikhs, or Druzes.

Yes, a lot of the violence within the Middle East are caused by geopolitics, poverty and oppression. But these terrorist attacks in the west are not. They are caused by indoctrination.  &gt; Go harass Muslims and vote for far right shitheads. See how far it gets you. Your bigotry makes you a pawn.

I'm not worried it will end with harassment of muslims. I'm worried someone fires up the ovens again, &gt;I'm not worried it will end with harassment of muslims. I'm worried someone fires up the ovens again,

Me too. But it starts with the former. When thousands of literal neo-Nazi rally in Germany against "Islamification" it's not a good sign of the times. Humanity is letting itself repeat the past.  Because pacifism, tolerance and wide-open immigration has worked so well to protect these 12 Europeans who have lost their lives today.  Yes, let us all hold hands and continue to hope diplomacy and good faith towards our neighbours will be the solution we need in this modern era of Islamic extremism.

&gt; But none of you are going to listen are you?

Listen to what?! Someone saying that if we all do nothing everything will magically turn around for the better?  That's so painfully naive and ludicrous it's almost offensive.  If someone with your attitude were running for a seat in government you could absolutely count on me voting for the other guy.  If what you say was true, WE WOULDN'T BE IN THIS GOD-DAMNED MESS TO BEGIN WITH! &gt;Because pacifism, tolerance and wide-open immigration has worked so well to protect these 12 Europeans who have lost their lives today

Hate killed them. Hate won't bring them back. Hate will make more of them. 

&gt;Yes, let us all hold hands and continue to hope diplomacy and good faith towards our neighbours will be the solution we need in this modern era of Islamic extremism.

Oh please, like "diplomacy" was ever on our minds. 

&gt;Listen to what?! Someone saying that if we all do nothing everything will magically turn around for the better? 

Go bomb another country. Vote for a fascist like Le Pen. See where it gets you. I'm not interested in trading death for death and misery for misery. You can have your paranoia and hate. I know what it leads to. And I spit on it. 

You want to know what naive is? Repeating the mistakes of the past and expecting it to turn out different today. 

 Talk about extremism. Listen to yourself! as if there is no space between tightening immigration policies and bombing another country.

What a joke. I agree with most of what you said, but...

What the fuck does a cartoonist in France have to do with geopolitics? 

Middle East? Fine, I'll believe you. But France?
 &gt;What the fuck does a cartoonist in France have to do with geopolitics? 

Basically, they're trying to attack anything that questions them. Is this a religious thing? In a lot of ways, yes. But it isn't just that, and that's not why this kind of ideology developed. The version of Islam these people swear by is actually pretty fucking modern. And a lot of it is a creation of government. The Saudis in particular pushed this shit all over the world as a way of spreading their influence. In the 1920's they used this interpretation of Islam as a way of unifying their own country as well. 

As time went on it sort of developed a life of it's own. Islamism became to be seen as an alternative to the western supported/dominated string of corrupt and brutal dictators who have ruled the middle east since the first world war. More then that it's mixed in with all sort of Arab nationalism kinda shit as well. Basically, they want a Muslim state controlled by Muslims and ruled by Muslim values. They want everybody else out of the middle east. Not just their soldiers, but their diplomats and businessmen and every other expression of their power. 

As for France, I'm not going to go into detail but they aren't exactly uninvolved in Muslim countries. Everybody's involved in Muslim countries. 

So a cartoonist in France insults the key figure of your movement, France is your enemy...well, look at the result. 

Nothing is ever simple. I'm noticing a lot of people in this thread keep reacting with hostility to any explanation of *why* these people do the things they do. Ironically, that's going to ensure they get what they want. Because westerners make no effort whatsoever to understand what they're up against. As if learning what these people think and where they are coming from means you support them, which it doesn't. militant Islamists are assholes. *But*, leaving it at that isn't how you learn how to solve a problem.   [deleted] Idiot bigots like you. 
Arseholes who try to shield some violent ideologies from criticism, just because some people call those ideologies "religion".    

Fascists who spread the myth of "islamophobia" to manipulate morons.  
  
No. Fuck you. Criticism of a religion is not bigotry, and no amount of whining on your part will make it so. &gt; And the roots of it actually have fuckall to do with Islam so much as geopolitics

This is ridiculously and blatantly incorrect.  How many more of them have to explicitly tell us EXACTLY why they're doing these things before we believe them?


You honestly believe an attack on a satirical magazine is a geopolitical move?  You honestly believe it has nothing to do with what their holy texts say about depictions of the prophet?


 &gt;How many more of them have to explicitly tell us EXACTLY why they're doing these things before we believe them?

I'll repeat a question I posted to somebody else: Why the WTC and not the vatican? 

They're trying to spread paranoia and fear, the magazine isn't the point.  What does the WTC attack have to do with this incident?

This is an attack on a magazine, for posting cartoons of their prophet.  It's blatantly religiously motivated.  You have to do some olympic style mental gymnastics to think otherwise.

This is just like when the Danish cartoonist had attacks on his life. &gt;What does the WTC attack have to do with this incident?

"What is context?"

&gt;This is an attack on a magazine, for posting cartoons of their prophet. It's blatantly religiously motivated. 

Terrorism is always political. 

&gt; You have to do some olympic style mental gymnastics to think otherwise.

And you have to be simplistic as shit to think like you do.  In your mind, what *would* it take to convince you that something is religiously motivated?  Where are the goalposts? Who cares? 

The world is complicated. There are no goalposts, it's a million interconnected issues. 

Even religious violence has politics inherent in it, and it's more complex then people in this thread seem to understand.  So your argument wasn't even that *this* wasn't religiously motivated, but basically that you don't think anything is?  Alright. hark at thee for one is so tolerant Judging by your hateful intolerance of the opinions of people who see the fundamental teachings of Islam as a serious threat to world peace you're the only idiotic bigot here, champ. It isn't bigotry to hate fascists.  Jesus look at the priorities of these apologists in this thread already

vaguerant100

&gt; The reasons people do this kind of shit are complicated. And the roots of it actually have fuckall to do with Islam so much as geopolitics.

Said every liberal on Reddit ever. 

If you truly believe this has nothing to do with religion, then by all means keep propagating this. 

But when the parties of God have a gun in your ear, don't fucking say I didn't warn you. 

"Moderate" Muslims create this type of environment in the same way Fox news creates an environment of bigotry that leads to death. Hell, Bill O'Reilly practically insighted violence against an abortion doctor that was later murdered, and liberals were FURIOUS. "Tiller the baby killer" said O'Reilly. And he was roasted alive when the doctor was later killed by a lunatic. 

"homosexuality is a sin and god says gays should be stoned to death" said the "moderate christian". Until a gay guy get's hazed or murdered, then it's "oh no I didn't mean beat him up!" 

Now imagine that type of fear mongering and bronze age superstition, only it's a religion that's still in it's dark ages.

Islam is going through some very serious puberty right now, and the last thing we need is to make fucking excuses for it. 

And what liberals don't understand, is that when you have a choice between being politically correct or fighting against a death cult, what you don't do, is be politically correct. 

Fuck Islam, Fuck Christianity, and Fuck weak minded political correctness when people are literally losing their lives because of a psychopathic cult.  [deleted] Keep telling yourself it's all geographical. I stand by what I say. This shit happens time and time again. So tell me, what "geographical" factor led these muslims to kill people at a French Magazine? 

What motivation was there? Did this French Magazine occupy them? Steal their oil?

Please enlighten me. Look at this whole thread.. The whole western world banding together to condemn millions of people over this. It's so disheartening..

I'm not saying a general distrust towards a certain minority isn't understandable within most present-day European societies, but we should never start to extrapolate on relatively isolated events and make them the sole base to inform our opinion on. Don't bother trying to defend it.  These animals should all be rounded up and sent back to the shithole from which they came. Fuck off with your 'moderate Islam' shit. Just FUCK OFF with that. It's hard to defend moderate Islam because I'd pretty much doesn't exist. Where are the hordes of moderate Muslims protesting this behaviour? Where are the hordes of moderate Muslims actively trying to stop then? Pretty much none, only apologists like you. [deleted] There is no moderate Islam. Just Muslims with not enough balls to pull triggers. It's not like they don't want to. Holy fuck how are these comments so racist? Reddit has always been anti Muslim but this is disgusting. Try meeting a normal Muslim person and then tell me they all want to kill you. In Europe? they won't interact. Last time I tried to walk through a Muslim neighbourhood in Barcelona a Moroccan drunktard tried to forcedly kiss my friend and started calling her slut when she refused. He ganged up when we called him out. Hopefully the cops were around. 

Fuck it.  A drunk guy was a dick to you once? You realise you are stereotyping billions of people right? Nopes. I'm stereotyping the typical Muslim young immigrant going into Europe, not adapting, growing resented and coming back to fuck up right up the ass because he can't be fucking civilised.  That's not at all what your original comments said, you're changing your argument.

That said, there are roughly 44,138,000 Muslims in Europe, and in the past 20 years there have been less than a dozen terror attacks on Europe with Muslim extremist values as the reason.

That means that every year, roughly 0.000000014 of the European Muslim population will commit an act of terror. Do you realise how ludicrous this prejudice is? Not really. You don't need a statistical threshold. These people attacked journalists and humourists upon the same values that many many Muslims in Europe share: if you offend me I will take it against you. We don't need a number of terrorist attacks to be slapped enough by reality.  I hear the yazidi sex slaves really like the funny cartoons of Jesus. There is no such thing as "moderate" Islam.

Moderate "muslim" is an atheist born in Islamic culture.
 I don't understand why seeing extremists do something abominable makes it hard to defend *moderate* Islam. About jesus pictures, you arent killed because you are protected by your country. If you let christianism rules, you will be (-&gt;Dark age). It doesn't help that moderate Islam rarely speaks out or takes a stand against muslim extremism. 
i went to school with a lot of 'moderate' muslims when the London bombings happened and i considered myself a left/liberal back then. After i heard their opinions and attitude towards these attacks i don't consider myself that anymore. I saw a march against PEGIDA in Germany. People are...scared bit they mostly don't know how to act, what to do. We are taught to be open-minded and all but at a certain level of fear people tend to snap if you can call it that. And this is how people become extremist. I don't defend them, but comparing it with Jesus is wildly inaccurate. Imagine, someone close to you (sister, mother or wife) dies and next day a newspaper starts making this kind of jokes about it for years and years and no matter what you tell them or if you take them to court they just never stop. Now think how many people do you know who may actually go on a rampage if this happened to them.  Do you think mass demonstrations denouncing extreme Islam by civilised Muslims would help?  moderates enable extremists. Why continue defending something that is so contrary to the ideas of democracy, freedom of speech, and peace?

If you're itching for a cause to defend, may I recommend one of the numerous other religious and ethnic groups around the world that are being persecuted. Secularists and theists are actually having debates on the historical existence of Jesus. Imagine the outcry from muslims if you try disproving Muhammed...  &gt;...it is hard enough to defend moderate Islam already.

Why would you want to defend homophobia, anti-intellectualism, anti-free speech, and misogyny in the first place?  Have all the funny pictures of Jesus you want, just be careful when you start performing abortions. How should moderate Muslims prevent this extremism? Are they guilty by association ? "Most Sunni Muslims believe that visual depictions of all the prophets of Islam should be prohibited[3] and are particularly averse to visual representations of Muhammad.[4]"

From Wikipedia. There are no such beliefs in Christianity regarding visual depictions of Jesus. Get some perspective before you draw a very long bow. Defend it or do not defend it, it has nothing to do with what we can do against those guys. Let's say far right come to power in France and they make laws targeting the people whose origins are from countries where Islam is the main religion, these laws will never get past the Conseil Constitutionnel as the French Constitution says a law can't target a specific group of people defined by their, religion, origin, etc.

If you want to modify the constitution you need a majority of 3/5 of the whole Parlement, Assemble Nationale AND Snat. So good luck with that, non-nationalist will never be reduced to two fith of both chambers. The other would be a referendum but there again I doubt that half the population would vote such a text.

That's the main reason I consider French nationalist are fools if they believe their leader could do anything for their fears of the muslim and/or immigrants. Christian extremists picket funerals and pass asinine laws. Muslim extremists kill people.  These guys aren't exactly the representatives of moderate Islam. As much as I hate to say it I'm starting to fucking hate Islam. This shit is not okay.  What are you defending Muslims against?  Why defend it?

A religion is just a set of beliefs. Some sets of belief don't lead to peacefulness or anything resembling a nice life for humanity.

Sure most people are decent, so you'll meet nice people of any religion.

But some religions are just inherently bad. [deleted] &gt; reform Islam into something civilized.

Heh, you're funny. Is Islam still the elephant in the room or what I think today we are witnessing a real turning point.  Some shit is really going to hit the fan now, in the months ahead.  Who can say what will happen, but it's going to get ugly. You'll see the anti-Islam groups grow and gain real power. &gt; "we have avenged the Prophet Muhammad"

No, you just keep giving people reasons to hate your religion. **Article summary:** 

---


&gt;* At least two gunmen have attacked the Paris office of French satirical magazine Charlie Hebdo, killing a number of people, French media report.

&gt;* Witnesses spoke of sustained gunfire at the office as the attackers opened fire with Kalashnikov assault rifles.

&gt;* The satirical weekly has courted controversy in the past with its depiction of news and current affairs.


---
^I'm ^a ^bot, ^v2. ^This ^is ^not ^a ^replacement ^for ^reading ^the [**^original ^article**](http://www.bbc.com/news/world-europe-30710883?ns_mchannel=social&amp;amp;ns_campaign=bbc_breaking&amp;amp;ns_source=twitter&amp;amp;ns_linkname=news_central)^! ^Report ^problems [^here](http://reddit.com/r/bitofnewsbot)^. 

**^Learn ^how ^it ^works: [^Bit ^of ^News](http://www.bitofnews.com/about)** The start of the attack (shooting a police car) https://twitter.com/matteomaillard/status/552792860047974400/photo/1 This was after the attack. The attack began around 12:00 Amazing how reddit and twitter do a better job at reporting this kind of stuff than TV channels we should help identify the attackers! Except that what he said is not true, the attack started around 12:00, this is after the fact when they tried to flea  WHy is there only 1 police car.  I propose a new "Day of Satire" in honour of these journalists.  A day devoted to caricature and mocking of all that people hold supposedly "sacred".  A reminder that nothing is above reproach, no pope or president or even god. That's your belief not everyone's, i don't believe in god but if you want to shove a belief up to everyone's ass then how about you go to China.


Since reddit is mostly liberal i pretty much expected your comment to be upvoted, they even upvote "legalize weed" threads. My heart is with you France. Such a senseless attack. -Warning NSFW-

Video of a [french cop getting shot](http://www.liveleak.com/view?i=bc6_1420632668) in the street while raising his hands, fucking animals, too cowards to fight in a real war, but always ready to shoot unarmed people and civs..I hope they get' em alive. You can't blame them, they were following the example of their false prophet mohammed, he wouldn't take any prisoners either. Well this will get buried. I'm in Beijing, and my French mate said he needed to have a few beers with someone so I joined him and he said how his uncle was wounded during this. Crazy to think about.  Is this the reason why PEGIDA is growing in Germany? They will be growing all around the western world after this shit. They are already making their statements how right they were all along. Protesting has been useless so far, these terrorists destroy all the work that has been done against PEGIDA so far. yes. Libert, Egalit, Fraternit

From Americans  As a French teenager living in Paris Im both shocked and terrified. We knew that France was / is a target and that terrorists are continusly trying to kill people, but luckily our police / soldiers / whatever are efficient and never let that happened. Today it did happen. And im god damn afraid. What's next ?

Everyone seems shocked. And Internet sometimes makes me want to cry. I see on popular french websites some comments like "muslims dont do anything to blame terrorists" or stuff like that. On Twitter some people said "well deserved" when this happened. What is the world Im living in ? Unfortunately, today it did happen. Do not, however, be afraid. I do not tell you this as if it were a switch you could flick. I am asking you to make a conscious decision not to be afraid. There is a reason we call these people terrorists - they rely on terror and fear to further their aims.

The worst thing these cowards can do to any individual one of us is kill us. But the worst thing they can do to us as a collective of humanity which together has set forward standards of tolerance, enlightenment and development entirely unprecedented in human history, is to force us to change any of this for their own, fundamentally flawed reasons.

The beauty of the internet is that it allows us to access the entire spectrum of humanity and interact with each other. This is also its greatest flaw. There are, of course, people on twitter who agree with terrorists, just like there are people out there in the real world who do so. Shows of force of numbers, of shock-tactics, callousness in the face of cruelty. All these things do not, cannot if we are convinced of what we stand for, weaken our position in any way. They only highlight the tremendous moral and human shortcomings of those who perpetrate them.

This is the world you live in. And you have an important part to play in determining what world it is in future. So do not be afraid. Do not panic. Do not let them get to you, whether they are cowards with balaclavas and assault rifles or cowards with a twitter account and a heart full of hate. Be secure in your beliefs, unyielding in your convictions, refuse to let anyone else tell you how to live, much less those who believe they have a right to force your hand. Your countrymen have died for these principles today, but they were far from the first and they will sadly not be the last. Know that this struggle for a better living must always be worth dying for. It is the world we live in and it is a struggle we must win, for the sake of all.

The brave human beings behind Charlie may have died, but they certainly did not do so on their knees. My condolences. Thank you for these words. They are truly helping, just...thanks. Evil exists. I'm sorry you had to receive such a brutal reminder of this. A world of contradictions, my friend.  Everyone has their own opinions, no matter how twisted or contradictory they may be. Not everything is an opinion though. Religion is either right or wrong. Logic dictates they are almost all certainly wrong, but unfortunately we can't prove anything and it's considered okay to believe whatever crazy shit you want sinceyiu can't disprove something.  Welcome to Eurabia.  Has been ongoing since the 8th century, when the Moors took over Iberia. You need to support and vote for National Front. Only NF can get France out of this mess.  Je Suis Charlie American media outlets have no issue showing video and stills of men with guns storming a building, but they refuse to show images of cartoons?? Its disgraceful. Really, we should change our national flag to a cartoon of Muhammad giving head. Crowd near the French embassy on the paris square in Berlin.  
Europe standing together.  
http://i.imgur.com/2iYzFO0.jpg   [Crowd gathering in Brussels.] (https://twitter.com/LaurentHenrard/status/552887540655857665/photo/1)

 It's hard to tell, but I see very few non-ethnic-European faces in those crowds. Why? Because contrary to the hysteria, the majority of people in these countries are white. As an Indian I am ashamed by the fact that under my country's laws these cartoonists instead of being attacked by crazy religion freak would be arrested by the government for insulting a religion.  I'd love to see the look on a caveman's face if you told him that one day we would celebrate the rising tiger population. RUN for FUN? AVOID fatty salty foods? Ug? Chaka. Iiiiiiiii'm

Hooked on a feelin' I'm high on believin That you're in love with ME! Hodor. KAAAHHHNNN! LAAANAAAAAA! DONKEY Zug Zug (   ) Once I had a dream about you, but you weren't a dinosaur, which was disappointing. When the walls fell. Darmok and Jalad at Tanagra. Jeff the Girl? If we think salty fatty food tastes good now, when society's saturated with it, imagine how damn good it would have tasted getting it once every few years as a caveman. Fuuuuuck man. I just realized that we'll never have time machines; because if we did we'd have dropped a fast food burger joint down somewhere back then and we'd have sweet burger gods instead of all this other religious bullshit. Maybe I'm just stoned but my logic seems pretty solid. 100% solid  The Gods of the Burger shall rise! ... Meanwhile in a parallel universe ...brought to you by Carl's Jr. But you don't know what society is like in the future.  Can you imagine the centuries of war between the followers of the Burger God and those of the Chicken Sandwich God?  Then you throw the Taco God in there and absolute chaos erupts!

Nay, I say unto you: The wise people of the future went back to stop the Burger Gods, and introduce the much more peaceful system we have in place now. If only they had stopped the Cola Wars. Just think how many lives could've been saved. What the hell kinda fun is that?! *cackles and bangs table* Blacksmith you dun lost yer mind What the hell kind of fun is that! On a serious matter, we're all enjoying the rise in number BECAUSE we are in our small confort.

If the risk of encountering a tiger pretty much doubled in my country, I wouldn't be so happy I would. 0.00002% from 0.00001% chance to encounter a tiger is still worth the rising population. You're still thinking in a "safe" way. Sure, 0.00002% I wouldn't mind either, I have more risks to get killed in a car accident.

But I don't think this is how it works. Some people live near the tiger habitat and their risk really increased. If you lived in those area, wouldn't you fear for you family with twice more tigers around ? 


I'm happy about the rising population because I feel like Man has destroyed enough things like it is but I feel for those families that's all. This is actually an ongoing problem with the bears in the Pyrenees where I live.

They went from 2 wild bears to 5 wild bears or something and all the farmers in the area are going all "Non aux ours" and claiming they're killing their dogs and cattle.

I mean five bears, with tags. It's like nothing. But there's still sightings and death apparently. I can't imagine if there was actually a thriving bear population.

Well actually I can imagine, we'd kill all the fuckers like we did in the first place. &gt; bears in the Pyrenees

How do the Great Pyrenees dogs react to bears? I have no idea.

Nobody's ever seen a bear. There's a popular saying here actually to kind of mockingly define a tough guy. You get called "the guy who saw the guy who saw the bear". Tell  me about it. We have a farmhouse in a mango orchard here in Maharashtra where we have sighted tigers recently. This used to happen decades back and nobody even thought of encountering one in this day and age. My mother used to tell me stories about tigers that roamed the farm. But we did see them and we are scared as fuck. 

They eat domesticated goats and dogs. A tiger took away my grandpa's dog. It's the same story in nearby villages too. Another tiger fell and died in a well in a farm adjacent to ours.

We used to roam freely in the farm but we can't anymore. So I am not exactly happy that the tigers are coming back.  My grandparents used to live in the Western Ghats of Karnataka and I remember watching in horror, a half eaten body of our calf. I clearly remember hearing a tiger roar at night and my grandfather going out to  check the barn every time a cow made a sound.

Still, I'm kind of happy that Karnataka has 408 tigers now. May be because I'm living safely, far away from the forests. But I'm glad that the future generations can see some tigers in the wild when they want to. It isn't just about seeing tigers. It is about having them as a part of our ecology. Their very presence will have a measurable impact on the territory they live in. How? I don't know; I don't study tigers.

However, I do know the re-introduction of other carnivores has really improved nature in other places. [This documentary](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ysa5OBhXz-Q) is pretty much THE example of that.

So for all you know, your tigers will start chowing on some animal that eats another animals that eats very tasty mosquitos, and then you might end up with far less malaria cases because there's a bigger population of mosquito-eating animals now. Obviously, this is made up on the spot, but their refreshed presence will re-balance the entire ecosystem where they live. they dont need to seem them. just know that they are still there. Strange. Is your farm/Aamrai in the Satpuras or Western Ghats?  IIRC the government is relocating entire villages out of tiger habitat to help the population grow. As long as they're moving them far enough away there shouldn't be any danger increase. They're also protecting tiger prey, so as long as the tigers have enough natural food, they'll be less likely to attack humans.  Good news, every one!  We're surrounded by tigers! But I can't see them.

http://i.imgur.com/VrLVK3n.png We might need [this](http://imgur.com/zLmfxQM) and [this guy](http://imgur.com/12BlI6f)

Who am I kidding, nobody uses those. Flare used to be pretty common....

Not sure about the new legendary. He seems pretty bad. I'm somewhat new to the game. Bad bad or good bad?  Bad bad I did not expect to find a Hearthstone reference in here Who would expect nerds on reddit? My mom? 

Is that how this works?  Yes she worked us all last night. Something, something, rekt... http://img2.wikia.nocookie.net/__cb20140105082817/memebases-my-little-brony/images/3/32/MYMOM-2.gif A natural mistake. I am loving this game [You won't thwart me so easily, laddie.](http://i.imgur.com/lkVcpSg.png) So Deathwing? &gt;Worse Deathwing

FTFY discard your deck, not your hand Shrekwing [Surrounded by tigers you say!?](http://i.imgur.com/YmPNQ0Q.gifv) I love this, wouldn't know the context of it would you? A tiger walked into a convenience store.  He says to the shopkeep, "Have you any Frosted Flakes?"  He mauls the shopkeep.  End of joke. Everybody laugh. Roll on snare drums. Curtains.  Give me back my face. I think we're skipping ahead here. Definitely, roll the credits first. Y'all got any Cheetos? Such is life. I'm only upvoting this because I clearly deserved that reply. Nicely done. Call me basic but I would first take a picture, then run away. You basic. Probably just wanted some cotton to rebuild his coil.  Shreds you say?! Did he at least die painlessly?

To shreds you say.

How about his wife, is she doing alright?

To shreds you say. I don't even know how I would react. Imagine standing in the back corner selecting the red wine and KY jelly for the night's festivities (or festivititties) and then a giant ass tiger stops at the end of the aisle and looks at you with menacing, hungry eyes. Many pants were pooped in the store that day. Might as well Just bend over and open the KY... You're fucked.  Nah dude, that's dolphins. I believe a tiger had escaped the local zoo is the context in this.  

I only hope the shop keep managed to trap it in the shop and the authorities managed to sedate and recover it back to le zoo.   

I hate to think of the alternative.   Jesus fucking christ. As someone who as been the only one working a shop... I would probably shit my pants if a tiger walked in. Like, welp, this is how I die.  *and they're breeding like rabbits! Someone call the pope! Hh-wha?  Professor Farnsworth's voice. Always. I have a rock that keeps Tigers away. &gt;The Bengal tiger is the national animal of India and tigers are important since they attract eco-tourism and thereby provide work opportunities. There are currently 66 different protected zones in India and a conservation program called Project Tiger has had a significant effect on the Indian tiger population. In the 1970s, the estimated number of wild Bengal tigers in India were no higher than 1,200. Today, the number has increased to around 3,500. 

[Source](http://www.aquaticcommunity.com/tiger/bengal/fact.php) India is definitely better at running projects than naming them.  Proud to call the head of Project Tiger, Mr. Rajesh Gopal, my uncle :D Do you think he'd be interested in an AMA at /r/India? We'd love to have him there! Yeah I was thinking of asking him that. Let me know if more people would like to have him there, so I could show him the link or something. I'll give it a go, its not easy to communicate with him, he's super busy and I'm not in India... I understand. I've messaged the moderators at /r/India to get in touch with you. I hope this AMA happens :) Please make it a general r/IAMA, as not only people from India would be interested in it :) (Switzerland chiming in here) Do you think he'd be interested in an AMA at /r/IAMA? Don't to it over there, do it it /r/IAmA so that everyone gets to see it! Fuck that do a real ama  I would love to see an AMA. But plz be careful about the trolls. Tell him to ignore them. But surely he will answer a lot of curious redditors including me. Well done India India always seems to make amazing progress when tackling a dilemma head on.  The problem is getting inertia on an issue when the country is so huge in every way.   English is not my mother tongue, but isn't inertia a inevitable result of being a big country? Or do you mean inertia in the actual process of progress?  I'm not sure why you got down voted because you're absolutely correct. Inertia means resistance to change. The comment should read something like, "the problem lies in overcoming inertia..." Or something to that effect.
 I think the original intention was to use the word "inertia" as a positive expression, like the force that keeps the ball rolling in a single direction once it started to move  Soooo momentum? Yeah...  I guess that's the better choice of words That is also inertia. Inertia is resistance to change in state. If something is sitting still, inertia resists being moved. If it's rolling down a hill, inertia resists it from stopping, or changing direction. The problem is also getting consensus in such a large democracy. I just realized I don't know anything about India's government.  I'm ashamed Not too complicated TBH. We pulled shit from all over the world and made ours a sovereign, socialist, secular, democratic republic whose govt. has a federal parliamentary system. Also the diversity. US always complains how a lot of their problems are because of diversity. But try living in a country where each state has its own language and its own script. 600+ different languages are spoken in India! I can only speak 3 of them.  Fucking casual. s/inertia/momentum/ They're like the kid whose a genius but also incredibly lazy We are more like that kid who aced school, like really hard. Graduated 1st, head of the cricket team, lead the debate and crocheting clubs and really the model students. We got into some bad company in our college, fucked up, became a crack fiend, didn't even graduate, now we are a washed up 34 year old guy flipping burgers in a cheap joint moaning endlessly about our past glory. We know that the skills are still there, but it's going to be a huge leap to be able to join the big club.  

Oh it also sucks that our school classmate who excelled with us in school, but fell on bad times and was our partner in misery is now a manager in the same chain and pretty soon might take over the region hq and is set for greater things. are you being sarcastic? Being an Indian I won't consider it any other way.  Yea! Thanks.  Is this India's official reddit account? Yeah. Modi is a big Reddit fan. He even participates in exchanges and shit. The real one only has one underscore. Stop it, you. For anyone who is interested - Indian government has setup [Project Tiger](http://projecttiger.nic.in/) to conserve its tiger population. Indian Government has spent Rs 163.87 crore ($26.5m) in 2012-13 and 169.48 crore ($27.4m) in 2013-14. More [here](http://projecttiger.nic.in/content/107_1_Background.aspx) and [here](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Project_Tiger). [Enter the tiger: how Panna got its stripes back](http://www.hindustantimes.com/brunch-stories/enter-the-tiger-how-panna-got-its-stripes-back/article1-1184252.aspx). This article about successful tiger relocation program at Panna Tiger Reserve is worth a read.

 [deleted] This is still very low compared to the 100,000 tigers that India had in her jungles at the turn of the 20th Century but an encouraging sign nevertheless. Long way to go India but keep up the good work.  By the time the British left in 1947, there were about 40,000 tigers left.  This is true. Tigers were still spread out across India(although very low numbers) in the 50s. They were fucking dangerous though, tigers would terrorize entire regions regularly, people would be afraid to leave their houses, some would even abandon their home and run away. I mean, a tiger can easily easily break down doors, people weren't safe in their own houses at night. 

Those were the days. They were killed because people were afraid, now that they are gone, people miss them tigers. The forests feel 'dead and hollow' without them. They want them back. I guess people just don't realize about something until it's gone. But still, they just want token tiger populations, and not to the point that it gets dangerous to go out at night again. 

Edit: Plugging [this](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M4t0aeTX954) video here. Man tigers are fucking awesome, the perfect hunters. Okay in that case let's stop at around 10000 People should just keep bears in their houses at night in case of tiger, that way everyone wins!  This needs to be higher up.  The article is badly written. While a decline from 40,000 to less than 2000 in 60 years is quite significant, what should be appreciated is that most of the decline in the earlier part of the century was due to mindless hunting for sport and not so much due to poaching. Most of the latter half of the century saw a complete ban on hunting.

Can you provide a source for your number ? &gt; most of the decline in the earlier part of the century was due to mindless hunting for sport and not so much due to poaching.

Do you have any source supporting that?

With population growth in 20th century India, I would have thought habitat loss and economic conflict with humans (i.e. hunting to protect livestock) to be a much larger problem for tigers. &gt; Do you have any source supporting that?

Freedom at midnight book references some Maharajah hunting sessions with the Brits where getting 12-15 tigers in a single hunt was a casually mentioned number.

I think I read it there.

EDIT:

some pics here


http://tigertribe.net/tigers-origin/tigers-killed/

 Feed the Tigers some human horn and we should start seeing a massive increase to the population Nobody's touching my horn **^I'll ^say! ^WOOOOOOOOOO!** This is terrible news. I'm a deer. Oh deer. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8UMIjAfLsrc D'oh! A deer.  A female deer? Well, good news for you, Mr/Mrs Deer.  Tigers will help keep the sick and diseased from infecting your herds.  So, yeah...you might be eaten by a tiger.  But you won't die from Chronic Wasting Disease. Oh dear. Great news. It is the most beautiful animal on earth. **Article summary:** 

---


&gt;* The number of tigers in India has seen a sharp rise to 2,226 tigers from just over 1,400 seven years ago, the environment ministry has said."India is now home to 70 per cent of the world's tigers," Environment Minister Prakash Javadekar said on Tuesday.Karnataka has the most number of tigers at 406.

&gt;* Uttarakhand has 340 tigers, Tamil Nadu has 229, Madhya Pradesh has 208, Maharashtra has 190 and the Sundarbans in Bengal has 76 tigers.India has struggled to stop the rapid decline of its big cat population in the face of poachers, international smuggling networks and loss of habitat.From an estimated 100,000 tigers at the beginning of the 20th century, India saw the numbers dropping to 1411 in 2008.

&gt;* Most of the animals were killed by poachers who sell the carcasses for use in traditional Chinese medicine.In 2004, environmentalists were shocked when not a single tiger could be spotted at the Sariska wildlife reserve in Rajasthan, a top destination for big cat watchers.


---
^I'm ^a ^bot, ^v2. ^This ^is ^not ^a ^replacement ^for ^reading ^the [**^original ^article**](http://www.ndtv.com/article/india/good-news-tiger-numbers-in-india-up-from-1-400-to-2-226-in-7-years-651189)^! ^Report ^problems [^here](http://reddit.com/r/bitofnewsbot)^. 

**^Learn ^how ^it ^works: [^Bit ^of ^News](http://www.bitofnews.com/about)** I read in BBC how the state of Karnataka (the state with maximum number of tigers) joined the green dots. Basically they mapped the forest reserves and then created corridors so that animals could freely move from one reserve to another. This is supposed to do wonders for the animal population. Wait. Google search. Here is the article - http://www.bbc.com/news/world-asia-india-26478430 My village is in the state of Karnataka. The state govt wants to reintroduce tigers(along with other animals native to the region of course) to the forest surrounding our village. We are all very excited about it. :) Not just that. Karnataka banned vehicular traffic through the Bandipur forest from 6pm to 6am nearly 7 years back. This has been a major reason for the increase in animal population in south Karnataka. The Kaiga power plant in west Karnataka is another reason for increase in flora and fauna in that region. The politicians in Karnataka might be corrupt but the forest department is doing a splendid job overall. The forest dept is very strict when it comes to its animals. There are too many rules and restrictions around tiger reserves now. While this might not be good for tourists, it's been doing wonders to the wildlife population.

Source: I'm from Karnataka. This is one reason I respect Indians quite a lot. They can have a lot of issues such as corruption but when it comes to animals they strive to their utmost to provide maximum security and quality to animal life.
 Now the Amur tiger numbers need to be helped out, and the Amur Leopard, mind boggling how low their numbers are. About 500 Amur tigers, where as the Amur leopard only has about 40.  &gt; Amur tigers

Thats Siberian Tigers if anyone's interested. Wikipedia puts their numbers at around 350. These majestic beasts have to be saved! They are the largest cats around and just beautiful behemoths of claws and teeth. 

[Here's a Siberian tiger hugging a brown bear for size comparison.](http://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/7/70/Tiger_vs._Bear_%282%29.jpg) &gt; Amur leopard only has about 40

That sounds kind of unsavable :'(

You'd have to make sure every female is pregnant as frequently as possible. Insemination if necessary. Might even have to track them for a while and protect them (if poaching is a problem, for example). I expected the Dacia Sandero Now, moving on... Great! So the new Toyota... So Proud of India right now.  Mera Bharat Mahan! banana hoga &gt;Mera Bharat Mahan!

My India is great!

&gt;banana hoga

Must be a banana. i dont know if you are trolling but "banana hoga" translates to "we have to make it". He was trolling. Without context it also means "must be a banana." No it means "Must be a-Kela".(Must be alone) 18 years of watching hindi soap operas with my parents so that I can understand this joke. Worth it. Fuck Sanjay though. Ranjana deserves better.  Dear lord of spaghetti, hear my call. (   ) Legit translation - 

&gt;Mera Bharat Mahan!

My India is Great!

&gt; banana hoga

Have to make it.

~~ Meaning '(We) have to make our India great.

Protip : /u/anonkehaath 's translation is also correct btw, he just took the 'banana' as it is without translating it into the Hindi meaning (to make). Sometimes I wake up thinking I'm a fish. For those of you who don't know, India went all out to save tigers this year, conducting campaigns on NDTV (a very popular news channel) with 3 seasons being held all throughout the year and over a million people extending their support to the campaign via online signatures.

Also it is worth taking a look at [Project Tiger](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Project_Tiger). &gt; over a million people extending their support to the campaign via online signatures.

wow, they really went all out Shussh...  
Don't let China know. Lets be clear about this..

**It's fucking awesome.** It's good to see some good news in the world :) * This is thanks to the technology used by the forest service and their dedication to their work.
* They set up camera traps to regularly take pictures of tigers and update their records of tigers.Sometimes the pictures are used to identify any poachers in the area.
* They have satellites monitoring the area for any forest fires.The in charge officer gets a notification when ever there is an abnormal temperature with the GPS coordinates of the location.
* Forest rangers put their life on the line (due to presence of dangerous animals) and patrol the forest regularly.The one in the dense pars have no access to electricity and are surrounded by dangerous animals.
* They keep the population of the deer up so that the tigers have enough game.
* No one except the forest officials are allowed in the core area of the forest.

But despite this tigers are killed by electrocution and other methods.Those who wander off the reserve area are sometimes killed by the passing vehicles or by the locals I'm glad to see those commercials are actually working. We did it TV! This is great news. I am overjoyed by the facts that species that we previously thought could not have been protected because of inefficient regimes that either did not have the funds or the impetus to protect these animals. What a great joy to see that countries may finally begin to realize that their most precious national treasures are not gold, silver, or oil but the animals and the ecosystems that are contained in the countries! yay Get those fuckers to fuck more. It's prime time entertainment in India to watch the tigers fuck. Finafuckinglly some good news. Good news at the top of /r/worldnews? http://i.dailymail.co.uk/i/pix/2014/01/09/article-2535709-1A7D371000000578-703_964x531.jpg i hope a tiger bursts through my wall while im sleeping and disembowels me all over the place then proceeds to feast on my innards to sustain itself.

EDIT:thanks for the upvotes guys since your interested id also like to be slowly stomped on by an elephant until i burst out my ass like a tube of toothpaste and then have my entrails hoovered up via its trunk dont tell the Chinese dammit!  Thats okay. Its difficult to manufacture fake Bengal tigers. that is great news. I read the book "The Tiger" and have a great deal of respect for those beautiful animals. thanks for sharing this info. $1 /u/changetip  That was about 30% increase in the last 7 years.  Everyone expected planet of the apes, nobody expects planet of the hungry tigers! They're Great! That is good news! This is fantastic news. Tigers are, in my opinion, one of the most if not the most beautiful animal in existence. To see them go extinct would probably bring me to tears and I don't think I've ever cried for animals before. Indian 'Royal Bengol Tigers' are the largest tigers in asia. (Male bengol tigers are as big as serbian tigers) They are also stronger than any other cat species! Ben-goaaaallllllllll!!!!! [Word cloud out of all the comments.](http://i.imgur.com/3t6znA2.png)

Don't like this? Message me! Is this counting the one that was looking for a frisbee buddy in the convenience store? Good, maybe people are slowly realizing that tiger dicks don't cure impotence and shit. Selling "magic" pills and potions is the reason many animals are endangered. People are willing to pay thousands for a rhino horn, just because some idiot said it was magic. Thanks you for posting Tauji  Not good news for the Tiger's natural prey--Corn Flakes I saw a wild tiger at Ranthambor national park in 2005 and it was one of the best experiences of my life.  When you consider the fact that the global population of Tigers in the wild was recently estimated to between 3,062 and 3,948.. that 1400 to 2226 in India seems like a fairly large proportion. as something that qualifies to be on the tiger food chain, this is not good news at all.... That's not the only Tiger who's numbers have gone up numerically in the last 7 years:  [Tiger](http://www.owgr.com/en/Ranking/PlayerProfile.aspx?playerID=5321&amp;year=2014#)  
  
1st to 43rd...tough few years. Good. Ajay Ghale has more Heavy Ammo Bags to craft. Why is the number so exact instead of a rounded approximation? As if they're confident that they didn't miss counting a single tiger They track them all, yes. It's a very big project called Project Tiger. Some friends of mine volunteered many years ago and they explained how they keep track of them.  

Since there are more tigers in private hands in the United States than tigers in the "wild" in India, it would seem reasonable that they can all be tracked. wut? Come again about that US fact? I haven't fact-checked, but this link seems reliable:

http://www.worldwildlife.org/stories/more-tigers-in-american-backyards-than-in-the-wild Oh my good god! Each tiger has its own Aadhar card.  Because every tiger counts! \#TigerLivesMatter Actually, the government has provided a range, 1,945-2491. The midpoint is around 2218.
The officials say that they have unique photographs of at least 80% of those tigers. It's possible because they have installed thousands of cameras in the forests. They shouldn't let their guard down yet. Indira Gandhi was a huge tiger conservationist and helped increase the tiger population in 1947 from 1,400 to 4,000+ by the 80s using strict measures, but then poachers brought it back down. Also, I just wanted to add that they shouldn't try to expand the tiger everywhere *just yet*. Leave some forests open for the lions (and potential Asiatic cheetahs) to repopulate. Once the lion numbers start swelling in other parts of India, then they can allow them in with tigers in forests together. This. India's the only non-African country with lions. We need them.  I agree, but what do you mean by "we", which country are you from? [deleted] A few Asiatic cheetah still exist in Iran.

I know tigers don't exist in Gir. I was saying that lions should repopulate forests elsewhere in India where tigers aren't present. All I can infer from this is maybe the Chinese traditional medicine industry is having a bit of a downturn. As soon as that picks up - good luck tigers! Actually, as the Chinese people discover things like Cialis and Viagra, these traditional industries are slowly dying. It's good news, but when you consider the tiger population was about 50x this a century ago, it's also somewhat deoressing at the same time. If you consider that 100 years ago tigers ranged  from the Caspian to Sumatra, yet now India is the only place in the world where Tigers are still in the thousands(more free tigers than the rest of the world combined) -and- growing, not so dissapointing.  
And had it not been for the stupid chinese medicine, the numbers would definately have been 5 or 6 times the present.  The historical distribution of lions was similarly impressive. They used to span from all over Africa, western Asia, the Balkans, and south Asia.

[Look where they are now.](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lion#mediaviewer/File:Lion_distribution.png) The lion was the great prize for hunters and exotic traders for much of the classical era. Think about how many were sent to Rome for the games. wouldn't the Romans have treated them well(besides using them in in death sports)? surely they'd have tried to breed them Why bother when you could just get more? I dono. &gt; besides using them in in death sports

Apart from that Mrs. Lincoln, how was the play ? Same with cheetahs. India was one place fortunate enough to have Lions, Tigers, Leopards and formerly Cheetahs. 

There were efforts on to reintroduce the asiatic cheetah but they didn't go anywhere.  Damn, I wish I could unsee this. This makes me so sad.  Southern Europe too. The last place the Asiatic lion still lives in today is called Gir Park. It's in Gujarat.  
Lions in the middle east, why do I find that hard to believe.
 Climate change? Europeans hunting them for sport(mainly British) was a big part of that decline.  No i doubt that. 

Less than 50 years ago, Europeans were still killing the big cats like there was no tomorrow. So i wouldn't say that we could have had 5-6 times the population of tigers if it hadn't been for the chinese. The price of the skin of a *Royal Bengal Tiger* in chinese black market is around **$78,000.**! How could poachers tell the royal tiggers from the peasants? The crown is a good indicator. And the flashing gold makes it harder for the tigers to hide, so they're easier to kill. They're using a PC If they growl at consoles they are not peasants. They don't have shit on them. I don't know why you were downvoted.  This is the response I came for. Not a lot of Monty Python fans in here I guess. [deleted] To be fair, the Dodo's killed themselves, evolution gave birds the ability to fly but the Dodo's didn't use it. They were just like sitting ducks no wonder they are extinct. Further than Sumatra, there were also tigers in Java and Bali. They went extinct in the 20th century. [deleted] well that 'one branch' also prescibes rhino horn(which is keratin , not any different from toenails) and parts from 1500 other animal species. 
http://scienceline.org/2011/06/from-beijing-to-new-york-the-dark-side-of-traditional-chinese-medicine/
Most of the animals poached in the world end up in China. 
http://advocacy.britannica.com/blog/advocacy/2007/10/traditional-chinese-medicine-and-endangered-animals/
Chinese medicine is stupid because even with no proven benefits they continue to cull wildlife, and sadly it is not the poor but the rich and educated who are fueling this unjustified demand. Chinese medicine is like the Indian cast system, a horrible ugly blot on an otherwise rich and wonderfull culture.

And while the west may have been to blame 50 years ago, it has reformed and now most of the conservation work is done , and awareness spread by western organizations. The threats to wildlife there are indirect ( search for impact of intensive agriculture on Britains birds) but poaching is hardly the main problem.  Good shit my man chinese medicine is about as stupid as any other witch-doctory  I don't really see people hating chinese people as a race.  I see it at worse as people hating the country of china and really its just hating those few that are so into ancient medicine that they feel the need to purchase endangered animal parts.

There's also a lot of evidence that it isn't even as much due to china as has been said in a lot of media resources.  They tracked a lot of the ivory/tiger parts/etc and much of it was actually going to places like vietnam and korea.

Also, if you think endangered animal eating is the only dumb part of chinese medicine you aren't looking hard enough.  If it was scientifically proven stuff that worked then it would simply be called medicine. Kind of is, but there has been a lot of money pumped into preservation. A lot of the tiger poaching in India is actually for Chinese medicine and in the last few years security has been amped up in tiger sanctuaries. It's a good sign that this money is seeing results. 60% more tigers than in 2008 &gt; A lot of the tiger poaching in India is actually for Chinese medicine

Yeah, "medicine", right. Because of the tigers strength and mythical power, that's why it's used in Chinese medicine. In reality, it's just calcium and protein, like you can get from any animal. It's nothing particularly special about tigers. This is an even worse reason than poaching elephants for ivory. At least that's something real. Oh I'm not defending that use or anything! I just took a lot of that from here, http://www.wpsi-india.org/tiger/poaching_crisis.php. I agree there's nothing special. I just wanted to dispel any possible misconceptions that the poaching is for an Indian market. But there is possibly no way you can fit that many tigers with the human population that India has today. We as a species have to control our growth, so as to achieve a little better balance with our habitat.  You do realize entire India is not packed like Manhattan? There are vast swathes of jungles and uninhabited lands.  The comment I replied to mentioned much much greater numbers of tigers, that would never survive in current situation. You disagree that explosion of human population is the reason for loss of habitat for these animals? And you are saying that this isn't the cause of drastic decline in tiger population? Trying to be patriotic and silencing a negative comment is one thing, but I'm taking about general global trends.  Dam. Was shit just getting eaten all the time.  A lot of the British Raj (which lasted till 1947) saw a lot of mindless hunting of tigers as a sport.  Man I got no words for this bullshit.  Way to alienate your #1 ground partner.  Kurds are being used.  If they decided to back off militarily until they get an invite, I wouldn't be entirely critical. Not a historian, but I recall learning about several instances where the Kurds got screwed by western allies.  
However, in this instance I feel that they did not get invited to avoid pissing off Turkey. Inviting them would give them credence as being a nation, which if my geography is correct is not what the government of Turkey wants. You mean when we sold Saddam chemical weapons knowing full well what he would do with them? Well there is that, yes. There is also the time that the USA basically agreed to the creation of Kurdistan and a few years later didn't go through with it.  
Then, iirc, the USA got the Kurds to rise against Saddam in the first Gulf War and never sent the troops that the Kurds were expecting.  
After Gulf War 2, rather than giving the Kurds the independence they wanted, they got them to knuckle under the Iraqi government, which ended up weakening them significantly.
 And when Iraq collapsed under the weight of Nouri al-Maliki's incompetence the Kurds were able to gain in hours with just a few troops what they were unable to do with years of diplomacy, the oil fields of Kirkuk. It seems no matter how much the west betrays them or how hard Turkey tries to screw them they always find a way to not only survive, but thrive.  It is not the cream that rises to the top, but the Kurds. That is the Kurds whey.
 Miss Mufti? I found you, Miss New Mufti. Little Miss Mufti sat on her Tufti, leading the Kurds her Way. [Ooh YEA](http://youtu.be/D59Bjl3MWWs) This is fucking incredible. ***Cocaine is a hell of a drug*** You have it backwards.

Regular wrestlers snort Cocaine to get high.

When cocaine wants to get high, it snorts Randy Savage. I'm from Kirkuk. I'm Iraqi Turkmen and I love the Peshmerga right now for protecting Kirkuk. However if that stay after ISIS has been pushed far back and claim it as Kurdistan we have a problem.

Kirkuk has always historically been a heavily diverse city, heavily split by Iraqi Turkmen and Kurds since the first Turkmen immigration wave nearly 1300 years ago. It should remain in Iraq, or be given as an autonomous region itself because of its extreme diversity (Including surrounding cities like Leylan, Tuz Khurmatu, Teze, Tal Afar and Altun Kopru which are all very close and all very Turkmen. Can someone explain the historical context of why Kurds want to have their own land and their actual ethnic background? It seems to me that they just want land because they want it, but as you see I'm ignorant to it all. The Kurds are spread in an area that spans from eastern Turkey to western Iran, northern Iraq, and bits of Syria, all of which have governments that have *slight* genocidal tendencies towards the Kurds. They figured they'd be better off if they had a country of their own in an area where they are the majority. Can't really blame them. 

^(Edit: Idiots, stop downvoting the guy above me for asking an honest question. It's important we all know what's going on and not downvote people who are only about to be in-the-know.) You know, just *slightly* [genocidal](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Al-Anfal_Campaign). Really just a *little* bit [genocidal](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dersim_massacre#Numbers_killed). You know, hardly [genocidal](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Zilan_massacre) at all. His sarcasm was as strong as yours, you just didn't pick up on it I don't think. Why is it they're so hated? Somebody drew borders right across the place they lived. It's going to create tension anywhere. They are "that other group of people" in each country that got lumped into, but are a minority in a distant corner of each country.  Plus, they tend to act like they are independent, such as not paying taxes to the national government.  So, you can understand how that would alienate them from the rest of the country.  

To be fair to the Kurds, they were their own region even during the Roman Empire.  When the Romans fell, they were independent.  Then under the Mongols, they were once again their own, self governed region.  The Ottomans treated the Kurds poorly, but still gave them some level of self government.  The Kurds rose up repeatedly in revolt and were put down.  When the European powers defeated the Ottomans, the Kurds quickly formed their own government.  

This lasted a very short time before they were informed that the Europeans had split up their territory into multiple other countries ruled by groups of people they had historically fought.  The Kurds didn't take that well and still don't.  However, even today, they keep getting taken hook, line, and sinker by Western powers who convince them to do something then don't hold up their end of the bargain.  However, with the current state of the region, and the war weariness of Western powers, it wouldn't surprise many to see the Kurds simply take their right to self determination. Minority groups make for easy scapegoats. Kurds aren't greedy, The Kurds have lived in what is known as "Kurdistan" for over 1500-2000 years (the history is iffy until the Arabs invaded in 637). Since the initial Arab invasion, the Kurds have been subjected to immense crimes, loss of autonomy, and basic genocidal tactics by host of different peoples such as the Arabs, the Turks, and the Mongols. This loss of autonomy and genocide has occurred for 1500 years, and the Kurdish people are the sole victims. 

When the British drew the lines to recreate states after WWI, the Kurdish people were viewed as incompetent in controlling their own territory. So it was split between Turkey, Syria, and Iraq. The modern history after WWI is easy. Just look at the gross amount of violence the Kurds have suffered trying to finally get the country they deserve. 

This is a fact: The Kurds are the LARGEST nation in the world without their own country. Turkey, Syria, and Iraq have all denied them that right. Mostly because Kurdistan lies on some significant oil reserves that make these states wealthy (though Iraq has most control of the oil reserves in Kurdistan). 

All the Kurds want is their own state and autonomy, something taken away from them over 1500 years ago. So for 1500 years Kurdistan was never given it's right to call itself a country, has no talk in the international community, and has been subjected to what can be called a millennium of genocide.  As the other replier correctly mentioned, they if anything only want some control of the land on which they already live (and have lived for many, many generations).  

They have been called a [stateless nation](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Stateless_nation), and there are more of them than there are people living in Canada or, interestingly, Iraq at the moment.  
 And so who are 'they'? Where do they derive from?(I did try to do research but somehow I still don't get it). They are a people, quite simply put. They speak an Indo-European language vaguely similar to Persian, if I'm not mistaken. They're a people, an ethnicity, just like any other; they just don't have a country of their own like most do. Imagine if a homogenous country (let's say, like, Poland, just to fuck with our Polish redditors here) got cut up by multiple countries. Let's say Germany and Russia, since they share Poland's borders and it sounds feasible. And just for shits and giggles, let's throw Sweden and Ukraine into that mix. So now Poland doesn't exist and all Poles live in 4 different states all of which they're a minority group who are rarely, if ever, represented in those governments. Throw in the occasional genocide. And this lasts for a couple of (centuries?)

Now replace those white people with brown ones (and a smattering of off-white ones) and relocate to the Middle East, right on top of a *lot* of oil. Then you get a picture of the Kurdish plight. When the British and French drew the borders of the modern middle east as WWI was ending, they looked at a huge land mass where Kurds were the majority, and rather than making it one, majority-Kurd country, they split it into three parts, giving each to a country with a different ethnic majority.  Hence, Kurds are spread across one contiguous landmass, but are simultaneously minorities in Iran, Iraq and Turkey.

Maybe there were logical reasons for doing it the way they did.  I'm not sure.  But the Kurds, naturally enough, want one country made up of the area where they live.  But that would take chunks from three existing countries.

All three of those countries are, naturally, a little nervous about a big army of Kurds that is getting battlefield experience and learning.

Edited to add -- I said Iran, Iraq and Turkey.  But google maps of Kurdistan, and you'll see that most include part of Syria as well.  So I was wrong -- FOUR countries are nervous about an effective, well-armed army of Kurds. its, in many ways, very similar to the reason Jews want(ed) one Out of curiosity, if it's split by both populations, why should it stay in Iraq? http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Iraqi_Turkmens#Kurdification Thought I'd leave this here. How important is the greater Turkic identity to Iraqi Turkmen? Is there still a sense of connection with central Asian Turkic groups (Turkmenistan most obviously), and to the larger narrative of the Turkic people more generally? Do you know how your parents and grandparents felt about what was happening with Turks in the Soviet Union vs. in Iraq? With a situation like the Uyghurs in China, for example, is there any kind of solidarity expressed towards them as another Turkic-speaking minority group, or do Turkmen in Iraq not really care much about the Turkic connections? I've studied Turkic languages, Persian, and Arabic for years, and was thinking about learning some Turkmen to understand the differences between Turkmen in Iraq, Iran, and central Asia better...sorry I'm asking so many things, but how much similarity is there between the Iraqi Turkmen language and that in Iran and Turkmenistan? Thanks in advance. The language us Iraqi Turkmen speak is a dialect of Azerbaijani with a mix of Turkish words aswell. 

We don't have much connection to the Asian Turkic communities, Iraqi Turkmen aren't directly related to modern day Turkmenistan, more-so to Turkey and the Oghuz Turks. As for a sense of connection, festivals are done every year in Turkey to celebrate the Turkic community and we invite Turkmenistan, Iraqi/Syrian Turkmen, Uyghurs, Uzbeks in a nationally televised festival that all communities watch. There are some resemblances in their languages as well but the differences become as vast as German and English as well.
 Languages have much more than "some resemblance" - Turks, Azeris, and Uzbeks understand each other (Source: Personal experience), and from what I have just read of the Turkmen language, so would the Turkmen. Having developed in different continents for about a thousand years, the vocabulary is somewhat different, but the tenses, grammatical construction etc are consistent across these languages.  Thrive is a bit of a hyperbole.  Thrive doesn't necessarily mean McDonalds and social security, sometimes it's just capturing a source of ongoing wealth. They have McDonalds and social security. Also free healthcare. They do not have McDonalds, but they do have a clone.

&gt; "The flow of applications to open an Iraqi McDonald's stopped as quickly as it started, and the corporate lawyers never came to Sulaymaniyah."

http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/MaDonal Look... me and the McDonald's people got this little misunderstanding. See, they're McDonald's... I'm MaDonal's. They got the Golden Arches, mine is the Golden Arcs. They got the Big Mac, I got the Big Macks. We both got two all-beef patties, special sauce, lettuce, cheese, pickles and onions, but their buns have sesame seeds. My buns have no seeds. Why do we care about Turkey and what Turkey wants? Last time I checked Turkey was Turkey and not Israel. Because they're one of the largest military presences in the area. this is the correct answer, if not the "right" one THE largest military in the area. Turkey has NATO's largest military after the US.  Right now the border between Turkey and Syria being used by ISIS to funnel foreign fighters in and stolen oil out. We need Turkey's cooperation to close that border.

Turkey, however, is more worried about the Kurdish rebellion within their country than about whats happening in Syria. They don't really care for the Kurds, or ISIS, or Syrian government, and would be happy to see the lot of them wipe each other out. * Turkey has a large, modern military.  Kurds have a militia with great PR

* Turkey relatively pro-western even with their current government. (So are the Kurds)

* Turkey has a very pro-western military that prevents their government from becoming too Islamic.  (The Kurds don't have a military worth discussing, just militia)

* Turkey hates Russia (Some kurdish groups actually side with Russia, the Kurds that are indifferent wouldn't be valuable as leverage against Russia even if they cared)

* They're a bridging culture between the west and middle east  (The Kurds are not a bridge to any other groups in diplomatic terms)

* Their urban population is very, very western (So are Kurds, but their population is miniscule compared to Turkey's urban population)

* Strategic geographic location (Kurdistan would be tiny to the point of uselessness)

* Pretty democratic government (on a global scale)...kurds, no one knows how the different groups would unify.  

* They're industrialized (Kurds, no industry - just oil)

* Importantly, facilitating Kurdistan destablizes the region including several very stable countries.


It's a matter of priorities.  Kurds are only valuable in influencing Iraq.  Turkey is valuable because they influence all of Europe and Asia.  If you're forced to pick one, you pick the one who can do the most for you...and that's Turkey, not the Kurds.


 Because it's been a valuable strategic country for U.S. military force projection since the Cold War.  Turkey was not-so-long-ago the heartland of an empire of gigantic proportions. You might not know it, but they know it. The West might largely have forgotten this, but they certainly did not. Nor have their neighbors, with both positive and negative memories associated with Ottoman rule.

The chaotic nature of the entire region is DIRECTLY a result of the dissolution of Ottoman rule, and the faulty, purposefully divisive pseudo-legitimate nation states conjured into existence at the end of World War I by the Western powers.

If peace and justice were the goal, then a huge mistake was made when the Kurds were denied a sovereign territory at that time. The great irony is that the Kurds are possibly more inclined to create a tolerant, multicultural multi-ethnic, Western-leaning state than any other group in the region. But the British imperial habits of that time relied upon a divide and conquer strategy, and the Kurds were probably too naive and honest to see that they needed to be duplicitous and willing to do some backroom wheeling and dealing with the British in order to get a place at the table.
Much the same scenario is probably leaving them out again.
:(

But back to Turkey: they are the major players here. If you know the area, and its history, Turkey is the key to everything.

The great great tragedy of this historical moment will be if they let themselves fall more and more into a willingness to "play ball" with extremism. They should be the voice of moderation and bringing the West and the East together. But there are many forces and interests that do not want this (peace, and reconciliation), and they seem to be inexorably nudging Turkey towards closer ties with religious extremism.  &gt;Then, iirc, the USA got the Kurds to rise against Saddam in the first Gulf War and never sent the troops that the Kurds were expecting.

My memory here is a little different, but I could be wrong.  My understanding is that we had convinced different groups, including the Kurds, to continue to rise up against Saddam even after Desert Storm was over.  The thinking was that the depleted Iraqi army wouldn't be able to effectively crush them without air support and this air support wouldn't be available due to the creation of no fly zones.

The issue was that (again, according to my memory) we botched the negotiations with the Iraqis.  They asked that helicopters be excluded from the no fly zone restriction so that they could use them for transporting wounded or transporting leadership to different parts of the country.  We agreed and the Iraqis immediately started flying attack helicopters/helicopter gunships to supply the air support needed to put down the rebellions.

With that said, while we could certainly have done more, the Kurds military situation in relation to Saddam was definitely improved during the Gulf War.  I seem to remember a story about Air Force spotters that dropped in to laze targets for the bombers in northern Iraq.  Kurdish forces led them to a regionally strategic crossroads guarded by an Iraqi tank.  The spotters lazed it, and it was destroyed within minutes, promptly followed by a large Kurdish celebration.  When the spotters asked why everyone was so pumped about one destroyed tank, the Kurds informed them that they that single tank had held that crossroad for years and the Kurds had failed multiple times and lost many men trying to dislodge it.  I'll try to find a link to the story later and update my post.  It was something I saw years ago so I'm sure I'm messing up some details. It's funny how we take air superiority with hellfires for granted. Thanks for sharing that. The entire first Gulf War is an amazing illustration of the logistical and offensive capabilities of our military when engaged in a conventional war. 

Things like the [Highway of Death](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Highway_of_Death#Highway_80) and [Battle of Medina Ridge](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Battle_of_Medina_Ridge) are great examples.

Coalition dominance was so complete that you had groups of Iraqis literally surrendering to news crews that were there to report on the war. I remember a story about an American tank that was stuck in quicksand. An Iraqi tank saw it and pulled them out of the quicksand, only to surrender after they rescued the helpless Americans.  They should have used spearmen, for some reason they always defeat the tanks. Gulf Wars 2, by ArenaNet And before that:
"But the most cynical acts of betrayal are more recent. In the early 1970s, as tensions between Iran and its neighbor Iraq increased, the U.S. Secretary of State Henry Kissinger agreed to support a plan devised by the Shah of Iran to encourage an uprising by Kurds in Iraq. By 1975, Kissinger had secretly channeled $16 million of military aid to the Kurds, who believed that Washington was finally supporting their right to self-determination. The following year, however, the Pike report, issued by the House Select Committee on Intelligence, revealed that the U.S. had never had any intention of supporting a Kurdish state:

"'Documents in the Committees possession clearly show that the president, Dr. Kissinger and the foreign head of state [the Shah of Iran] hoped that our clients [the Kurds] would not prevail. They preferred instead that the insurgents simply continue a level of hostilities sufficient to sap the resources of our allys neighboring country [Iraq]. This policy was not imparted to our clients, who were encouraged to continue fighting.'"5

"At the 1975 Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) summit, Iran and Iraq temporarily resolved their border dispute. The Iraqi government was then informed that U.S. support for the Kurds would be withdrawn, while the Kurds themselves were kept uninformed about what was happening. Iraqi forces immediately launched an aggressive campaign against the Kurdish rebels. "The insurgents were clearly taken by surprise. Their adversaries, knowing of the impending aid cut-off, launched an all out search-and-destroy campaign the day after the agreement [with Iran] was signed. The autonomy movement was over and our former clients scattered before the [Iraqi] central governments superior forces."'6

http://www.isreview.org/issues/28/kurds.shtml

And before that:
"At the end of the First World War when the Ottoman Empire collapsed, the Treaty of Svres recognized the Kurds right to their own state and U.S. President Woodrow Wilson pledged to support its creation within two years. This promise, however, was soon forgotten, as Western powers competed to control the regions oil supplies. British planes gassed and bombed Kurdish villages in Iraq in order to enforce the borders they wanted. "I do not understand this squeamishness about the use of gas," wrote Britains war secretary at the time, Winston Churchill. "I am strongly in favor of using poisoned gas against uncivilized tribes. [W]e cannot in any circumstances acquiesce in the non-utilization of any weapons which are available to procure a speedy termination of the disorder which prevails on the frontier."4 Meanwhile the Turkish government brutally repressed its own Kurdish population, denying them freedom of language and culture. Although this violated the peace treaty, the Western powers supported the Turks who were seen as a vital ally in preventing the spread of the Russian Revolution." wow War history is a terribly depressing thing. Hurrah for late colonial imperialism still impacting modern policy! *"Of course Iraq has WMDs, we have the receipts!"* Negrodamus: "George Bush knows Iraq has weapons of mass destruction because he has the receipts" When the US gave Saddam the chemical weapons it was basically just wishful thinking that he would *only* use them on the Iranians.    Ah yes, wishful thinking. In retrospect we shouldn't have supported the mujahedeen either. Or the Iraqi army because their barracks ended up being raided by ISIS.  The difference is, that chemical weapons are always a bad idea.  It's almost as if, if the US didn't bud in the Middle East, things would be better.  I would say that it wouldn't be better, just different It would certainly be better for the US.  Maybe. We'll never have anyway of knowing what could have been so let's worry about what can be. At this point we need level heads to prevail globally. We have so many problems to deal with that focusing on the past can only distract us from the reality that we are living in.  No, they'd all be living in the stone age without the US and it would be even worse as some other power would supply them with weapons. 

I am sure you are much smarter than all the geopolitics experts, though. You better call the Pentagon, they may need your help!  Young fella reporting in. I was 7 when Bush Jr started the second campaign in Iraq. Can somebody ELI5 what, why, and when this happened. And are these the same "WMDs" that Bush claimed we were there to destroy? These are completely different WMDs which they found but kept secret because they didn't support the administrations rational.

http://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2014/10/14/world/middleeast/us-casualties-of-iraq-chemical-weapons.html Damn that war was a clusterfuck of stupid bullshit. But hey, it made a lot of defense contractors rich! The US helped Saddam attain chemical weapons during the Iraq -Iran war in the 80s.  We sided with Iraq in that conflict because our relations were, and still are, very sour with Iran due to the overthrowing of the Shah (our guy) and the Iranian hostage crisis.  The chemicals weapons that we helped Iraq attain in the 80s are not the WMDs that W Bush spoke about in the 2000s. W Bush/Rumsfeld were claiming that Saddam's Iraq was close to developing nuclear and biological weaponry.  Lets not forget that our guy the Shah was put into power soon after Iran had nationalized its oil. English and American oil companies were pissed when Iran decided to take control of natural resources on its own land and convinced the CIA and SIS to support a coupe. The western friendly Shah was put into power and the atrocities in Iran began. The people, finally overthrew the Shah during the Islamic Revolution of 1979. Guess what happened a year later? Saddam backed by the CIA declared war on Iran in 1980, coincidence huh? Oh, and we sold him a bunch of chemical weapons knowing that he would use them.  The Middle East has very good reasons to hate America because we have been so instrumental in creating instability and secretly funding wars, and to be honest, I really don't blame them.  Sold? The US put Saddam in power and armed him up, they didn't "sell" him anything. They created him. The whole world backed Saddam Hussein back then, even Russia. Hell even private companies (such as HP for one example among the numerous) from the West were giving Saddam billions of dollars in support. No one sold Saddam anything. 

1979 was a really busy year. Iranians kick US tyrant out and take their country back after their democracy was hijacked in the aftermath of WW2. Soviets opportunistically invade Afghanistan. US creates Al Cockya to counter the Soviets. US puts Saddam in power in Iraq with the singular purpose of countering the new-found Iran. The plan backfires. Here we are decades later and US is  trying to clean up their mess from all those years ago. You think the modern invasions of Iraq and Afghan are isolated or random events? This whole thing started in 79'.. which really started in ww2, which really started in ww1. All starting when there is a falling out between their warlord buddies. Opium production is halted, literally weeks later the US invades and production skyrockets to new record highs ever since. Meanwhile in Iraq, the US never had a chance. Iran owns Iraq the same way that Russia owns Ukraine. 

When this cold war goes hot.. Prepare for global scale conflict. Expect it. What was the primary "lesson learned" of the second world war? Why was Israel created in the first place? Things aren't always how they appear. There's implicit and explicit. 

 "Ok...^^^minor mistakes were made"

-USA Its like the old adage, "In China they only have one word for Tibet and that word is 'China'." It's actually 'xi zang' You've destroyed my joke but damnit if I dont respect you. Strangely enough, the word for the Chinese Takeaway dish "Mongolian Lamb" in Mongolia is lamb. Everyone that helped the british in the middle east during WW1 ended up getting screwed, there were a lot of efforts done by Assyrians that helped secure a lot of area and routes for the British, they promised us quite a bit for our efforts only to get shafted in the end. as a great grand child, all i have left to show for my great grand father's efforts is about 15 oz of gold awarded, few medals, few swords/daggers...  And therein lies one of the reasons of anti-western resentment in the region. Inviting KRG wouldn't piss Turkey since Turkey is the #1 trading partner of KRG and they are pretty good allies as you can see from the history, especially Turkey's Northern Iraq operations. On the other hand, YPG is known to be allied with organizations which are referred as "terrorist" by NATO and many other unions. Therefore it wouldn't be ethic to invite such organization. I think a main issue is that Turkey doesn't really want a united Kurdistan forming as they would have reasonable claims to Turkish territory. I agree with you, but the only thing Turkey has done is help the Islamist factions - including negotiate with DAESH.  Erdogan is going Full Putin : corruption, hyper nationalism, anti-democracy with Political Islam thrown in.  I think Turkey is a lost cause, for the time being.  Erdogan even said the PKK/YPG were as bad as DAESH.

Its well past time to put Turkey on notice for their bullshit.  Inviting the Kurds is the right thing to Militarily, Morally and Diplomatically.

EDIT: Turkey is not a Monolith, it is apparently fragmented.  From Fuat Avni (twitter @FuatAvniEng) at one extreme, someone cutting off the water supply at Ataturk Dam in Turkey, as well as some in government that stuck their neck out to frustrate supplies to Al-Queda http://www.al-monitor.com/pulse/originals/2015/01/turkey-syria-intelligence-service-shipping-weapons.html And then there are civilians, both activists &amp; journalists. I agree with you, yet Turkey is a pretty important NATO member. They are in a great position in relation to Russia what with blocking the Black Sea off completely.  
For those in power it's basically a question of: How much is Turkey worth as an ally and how much do we really care about kurds? Not only that but it's also a question of how reliable will Turkey be if push comes to shove, considering Erdogans recent passive support of ISIS and dealings with Putin? One word: **Unreliable.** Suleiman is a fucking backstabbing prick. The trick is to get him to backstab the other guy instead of you.  (I say after finally pulling off a diplo victory by unintentionally bringing the byzantines back from the dead). Turkey also is in possession of the F-16 Fighting Falcon's source code for the flight system software. They have a fair chunk of US intel to hold hostage. Yeah, but 1 president doesn't mean much. When NATO asked for Turkish troops in Korea they got it, when the U.S.A wanted nuclear weapons placed in Turkey to make USSR angry.

Turkey is reliable, a single president that went rogue after being supported by the U.S isn't going to change their attitude. For the last 100 years Turkey looked towards the West not the East, a single dictator who was at first supported and well liked by the West won't change that. Considering Turkey is only involved in the fight by directly supplying Al-Queda in Syria &amp; negotiating with DAESH - I'd say they are a liability.  There is no purpose to inviting them to Military talks when they are a non-military player.

By all means hold separate talks about working with us to stop our Citizens from joining Islamist factions.

Its one thing to pussy foot around a *potential* ally, its another thing entirely to let a passive-aggressive actor dictate to you exactly who you invite to your Military Council.  The Kurds are the most valuable ground partner we have as well as being pretty secular - Its time to call Turkey on their BS. My only worry is would that alienation lead to stronger ties between Russia and turkey. When it comes down to NATO war, I can guarantee you that Turkey will side with the United States. NO matter how corrupt Erdogan is, he's not completely retarded. Source: Turkish &gt;Erdogan even said the PKK/YPG were as bad as DAESH.

(Turkish citizen here)

I hate Erdogan's guts and have absolutely no problem with Kurds, but PKK *is* a terrorist organisation. Well according to NATO and a few EU countries. They are officially listed as a terrorist organisation.

And they truly are. I mean I don't support how my country treated Kurds in general, but PKK really is a terrorist organisation that targets civilians. They are not known for suicide attacks like Islamists but they do place bombs and kill innocent civilians. Their means of terror throughout Turkey was worse more than a decade ago (they would ambush passenger busses and kill the occupants (civilians) with machine guns).

If you visited Turkey and fell victim to a terrorist attack, the chances are it would be because of PKK and not other terrorist organisations you always hear about.

Even though I agree that the Kurds are an oppressed minority in Turkey, PKK fits very well to the definition of a terrorist organisation. The pain they caused to Turkey is real, and the wounds in the minds of Turkish people are still raw. My mother is of Turkish origin so I have been there about 8 times in my 23 year life. I followed the Taksim recently where the police where Erdogan's puppets in trying shutdown protesting. Whenever I say the word "Erdogan" to anyone in my family there, they cringe and get very upset because of his diplomacy tactics. Mustafa Kemal built Turkey on westernized democratic principles to a muslim nation and Erdogan is taking a shit on them by catering political power to conservative muslims. I'm not saying conservative muslims are in the wrong, but this is not what The Republic Turkey was built on.  One person's terrorist is another's freedom fighter.

 Personally, I take the view that this is not a contradiction. Terror is a method, freedom is a goal. Somebody who uses terror to try and gain freedom deserves very little sympathy though IMHO. Turkey shut down a major dam that generated a lot of power for cities under ISIS control, didn't they? Well, the PKK is a terrorist organisation, I don't know why Erdogan shouldn't compare them to ISIS. But Islamists are the new big bad enemy of this century so who cares about such distinctions? Funny that, 30 years ago, PKK were the communist devil and islamists the mujahideen heroes. Only a few weeks ago, people on this same subreddit were blasting on Uigur fighters and supporting Chinese persecution on the uigur people. And today, everything the PKK does is OK because everybody should have the right to self-determination, right?
It's funny how people like to think of themselves as above governmental propaganda but, each time the government creates a narrative of our good heroic allies pitted against the inhuman scum, we always dive into it heads first without caring for any nuances. Just wondering - are you really surprised that in the deeply complex arena of bilateral global politics that heroes become villains and vice versa? 

I mean at one point the US was excited by the prospects of the February Revolution until the October Revolution. A few, mere months and the stance changed drastically. 

This has been the way of the world through out history (see Athens' and Sparta's relationship). Even right now we see this. America's relationship w Russia is very tenuous. If we are talking with regards to Ukraine they are wrong. Yet in the fight against ISIL they are important. Of course this is ~30 years after we worked with Osama to push Russia out of Afghanistan. It's the way things are. America did some terrible shit in Chile (and other places like it) to "fight" Communism. Yet there are plenty of examples of the good things it has brought to the world. 

The truth is there are no good guys. There are only players moving between shades.

And doubly so when you are talking about the reactions by people. I'm sure there were people defending X group last week, but this week it's Y. People were also more upset by a scientist's shirt last year than Boko Harem kidnapping 200 girls. Go figure.  I agree with you and it doesn't surprise me. What does surprise me is how easily the general populace forgets all this. I guess it's human nature to try and find manicheism in everything. Think you need to do a refresher on Turkish/Kurdish relations.

They put all that behind them a few years ago and started trading and combined forces against the PUK. Another question is [which Kurds](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_Kurdish_organisations#Middle_East) do you invite?  Do you invite the Marxist MLKP or the gender-equal YPG?  Does each sub-group get to send a representative, while each country gets to send one as well?  It's a bit chaotic. Considering the manner with which Turkey is "enforcing" their border with Syria and allowing hospitals near the border to patch up ISIS/ISIL fighters, I personally couldn't care less how Turkey feels about the matter.

Then there's the whole thing about of Ergodan thinking he is Kemal Ataturk, which is an insult to the legacy that he left behind, but that's a whole other story. Honestly, I can't be mad at any doctor, anywhere, who patches up anybody. Medical treatment is a human right, but the Turks don't have to let them back after. Right, my point was more around the weak border enforcement rather than individual doctors taking care of people.  But the irony of using western medicine to heal injuries sustained by western weapon technology due to a maniacal hatred of the west is not lost on me. Weak boarder enforcement is likely corrupt guards taking bribes. You see that all over the planet I don't think Turkey, or lets say Erdogan government, has any problems with Barzani government. There had been a major oil agreement between two parties just before ISIS has attracted World's attention. And actually some people claim that this agreement pissed off central Iraqi government and that is why Iraqi army left all their weapons to ISIS without much struggle so that Kurdish part is punished. yes seem pretty accurate, it is funny really. whenever we want something from the turks we ignore the kurds, whenever turks want something we bring up the kurds in why we cant give them what they want.  "Mountains are our only friends" -Kurdish saying Now I want to mod CiV with a Kurdish civilization who get bonuses from mountains. "All land units receive +15% to combat strength when fighting within 2 tiles of a mountain." **Mountains of Madness**

*Mountain tiles provide +1 yields to gold, culture, science, and faith.* fantastic saying Thats because most of the Kurds have been living in mountain villages and there damn many mountains in Kurdistan. They don't only know how to survive in the mountains, but also how to fight there. IIRC, the Kurds have an old saying, *"Our only allies are the mountains."* Kurds are being used **again**. You know, this almost makes me cry a little because my father was so happy and had his hopes up that he'd live to see Kurdistan become a recognized country.
It seems as though that will not happen. There are MANY 'countries' that should be, but aren't due to an oppressive regime that poses as a democracy. China with Tibet, Morocco with the Western Sahara, Israel an Palestine, Kurdistan. Russia is notably the worst with this - Dagestan, Georgia, Crimea...

If claim to a territory depends on who has the most guns, then you're doing democracy wrong. Western Sahara is a pretty different situation than the rest on that list... The Coalition is just lucky that ISIS seems, for the moment, to be hellbent on pushing into Kurdish territory. If ISIS was to launch and all out attack a weaker opponent, like say the Baghdad government, the results would be tragic.  ISIS doesn't have the support from locals to control Baghdad. They are limited towards the north and the east They would probably rather control all the Sunni territories of Iraq and Syria, as well as some strategic towns like Tikrit and Mossul, before launching offensives towards Jordan or Saudi Arabia. Would they attack Saudi Arabia? A lot of people forget how important local support or acquiescence is.  You don't control that much territory and that many people without some level of local support or acceptance.  Many locals may not like ISIS or agree with them, but they don't necessarily see them as an enemy worth resisting (though some do and have).

Holding Baghdad, which has a much larger Shi'ite presence, would be far harder than holding Mosul.  I would have no problem if the Kurds nameds every inch of land they take from ISIS Kurdistan, not in Iraq, Syria, or Turkey. well if they can beat ISIS they can easily beat the Iraqi military at least  The Kurds cannot afford to make such a symbolic political statement. They are under siege by Daesh forces. Backing off until they get a seat at the table means certain death for many of the people in the towns and villages they are defending. Plus, there is a spectacular social revolution happening in places like Rojava. If they were to stop fighting simply because imperialist nations and their puppets don't want Kurdish input or cooperation, there would be huge losses in the freedom and autonomy that Kurdish men, and especially women, are fighting and dying for. Unlike many of the nations who were invited, Kurdish concern about ISIS is not about strategic and economic interests, but rather life or death and their very existence as a people. The point here is the Turkish governments don't want a Kurdish entity and this makes the Kurdish people dispensable. 

Just stop to write about any moral obligations and become aware of the interests of Nato etc.  Obviously, if you invite the Kurds then you legitimize them against Turkey. And out of the two, Turkey is a more important ally for the west (and lot more stable, no matter the current political situation inside the country)

I'm not saying it is good, but politics, especially world politics were never about whats good or right Yeah it's kind of hilarious that everyone is shocked about this... Shocked? Not so much. Angry? Absolutely. Why does Turkey not like them. Don't you have to be a country to be invited? Kurds are (as far as I know) just considered part of Iraq.  Kurdistan is de facto independent. Earlier in the conflict they were planning a vote to declare independence but decided to wait until after the whole Isis mess is over Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus is also as *de facto* independent. No one here would object if they weren't invited to an international conference. Well no, but then again the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus hasn't been the number one anti-IS force Rules are not set in stone. They can be changed, and they should've been changed.  Exactly. If the goal is to fight ISIS, then you figure out a way to invite the Kurds. The excuse that they aren't a sovereign, UN recognised nation-state is bullshit.

They have been on the receiving end of a lot of shit because no one wanted to piss off Iraq, Turkey, Iran, Syria etc. Combatting ISIS is going to be pretty much impossible if leaders keep pussyfooting around the Kurdish question in the middle east.

 &gt;  If the goal is to fight ISIS,

Yep.

If is the right word. Iran, Lebanon, Russia, Syria, and the Kurds, are all not present  **The following countries were invited to the meeting:**

*In addition to Britain, the US and Iraq, other countries whose representatives participated in the conference were Australia, Bahrain, Belgium, Canada, Denmark, Egypt, France, Germany, Italy, Jordan, Kuwait, the Netherlands, Norway,* ***Qatar, Saudi Arabia***, *Spain*, ***Turkey*** *and the United Arab Emirates.*

----

So the countries **financing and supporting** ISIS (Qatar, Saudi Arabia and Turkey) were invited, but the Kurds were left out. The Kurds (Peshmerga &amp; YPG forces) are the strongest force against ISIS at the moment. Kurds in Syria &amp; Iraq are battling ISIS terrorists. 

The Iraq army caused the fall of Mosul because of their cowardness. Yesterday, the Peshmerga launched a massive offensive against ISIS in and around Mosul, killing over 200 terrorists in a single day.

The West is, again, ignoring and shitting on the sacrifices made by the Kurds.

This is not the first time the West backstabs us. They have done so many times in the past. 

I hope this serves as a wake-up call. We can't trust anyone. They play nice when they need us, but when the job is done, they'll get back to backstabbing, demonizing and hurting us.


Quote from Abdullah Ocalan, the leader of the Kurdish PKK/YPG turns out to be true:

*"The West doesn't want us to live nor to die... but to be wounded" - Abdullah Ocalan*


This was a **huge** insult. I wonder how this will affect relations and the war on terror/against the Islamic State.


---

**Edit 1:** Whoever gilded my submission; thanks! I really appreciate it :). I didn't write the article though, I just submitted a link :P.

---

**Edit 2:**

This will probably go unnoticed because there are already thousands of comments, but I just remembered something that might have something to do with this.

Just one week ago, the Kurdish President Barzani [announced that they know who was behind the ISIS offensive against Kurdistan](http://rudaw.net/english/kurdistan/160120151).

The Kurdish Intelligence Agency might have information that could harm powerful countries. Which countries, we don't know (yet).

**Also relevant:**

The Kurdish Intelligence Agency (Parastin) caught the trail of both Bin Laden's AND Saddam's (hideouts), not the CIA or Mossad.

So when the Kurdish Intelligence Agency claims to know something, it's most likely true.

**''Fun'' fact**: There have been more terrorist attacks in Europe since 2003 then in the Kurdistan Region, despite the fact that the KRG is surrounded by the following countries (and officially still part of Iraq): Iran, Turkey, Syria. And  also close to: Afghanistan, Pakistan, Lebanon &amp; Gulf Countries.



 While you are completly right, it is an insult. It should be noted it is a list of countries not fully vested in this war.

Iran,
Lebanon,
Russia,
Syria, and the 
Kurds,
are all not present

It's not a policy meeting, its the U.S. and others " whipping the votes". It's an opportunity to get commitments from others. I could be completly wrong, but having the Kurds there would just give certain countries an excuse not to make bigger commitments. The Kurds are all in, no question, and it only makes it harder if you add any implication that it's about "helping the Kurds" not " defeating ISIS. This is an extremely good point and I wish it were higher up in the comments section. I hope my upvote helps you get there. It's called diplomacy. The middle east is murky waters, so you have to tread lightly or you step in a big pile of shit that just makes things much worse. 

First to point out, it's not the states that are financing ISIS, is the people inside those countries. It's like saying the US finances the KKK because some of it's citizens pay dues. If you want to stop money and support flowing from the citizens of those countries you need the corporation of those countries to do so. 


Also, we have to understand the context. This isn't a tactical conference where they discuss military strategies this is a meeting of *states* to discuss what the international community can do to impact ISIS. The things they are going to talk about are how to stop the flow of money/recruits into ISIS, and what military power these countries are willing to commit. The Kurds are not their own state and have no real presence in the international community. There isn't anything they would really be able to contribute to the conversation in a meaningful way in this context. Another way to describe this is this is a conference that will be attended by the US State Department, not the US Department of Defense. If the DoD were running the conference then the Kurds must be included, but being run by the State Department the Kurds are optional. 


Of course you could argue that we should invite them anyways to be symbolic of a unified fight against ISIS, and in any other situation I would absolutely agree. Unfortunately this is where we would step in a big pile of it, because again the middle east is a cluster fuck of different agendas. Symbols have meaning in diplomacy, and inviting the Kurds would would significantly elevate them on an international level. While this might sound harmless, this would piss off Turkey to the point where they may withdraw from the conference. You have to understand the Kurds are basically the Quebec of Turkey; their is a big push to secede, but unlike Canada it's not something that the Turkish government wants and actively tries to prevent, and has turned violent in the past. It's an internal powder keg for Turkey and if they don't navigate that properly they could be dealing with their own civil war, not exactly good for the region at this point. If your goal is to get the counties to corporate with stopping the flow of support to ISIS, your first step should not be to piss off one of the most important countries you need to contribute. 



To summarize:

* The conference is for the international diplomatic community not necessary the military community. 

* The Kurds would not be able to meaningfully contribute to the topics of the conference

* An invitation to the Kurds would be mostly symbolic. 

* The symbol would piss off some of the key players of the conference, and could even result in some critical nations backing out. 

* If you want the cooperation of the nations, you don't start a conference off by pissing off key contributors before it even starts.

**TL;DR**: It's called diplomacy. You can't always make everyone happy and still meet your goals. 

edit: post-coffee phrasing. People end up being way too idealist when it comes to a lot of foreign relations especially in the Middle East and seem to think everything is black and white.  I support kurdish autonomy, and this is one of the best posts here.  For the record I do too. The region needs moderate stable governments.  Thanks for this. Regardless of how much you support Kurdish autonomy or their push against ISIS, this is the reality on the ground, and there's little room to maneuver.  You're right that it was a huge insult, but do you not see that you've shown why Kurdistan wasn't invited? Turkey probably wouldn't've come and Erdogan is sure to be milking his position for every drop. Can you imagine Turkey not raising holy hell at the idea of Kurdish attendance?

You're right that Kurdistan should be there and I do think/truly hope that this current Syria clusterfuck is the crucible through which Kurdistan will finally gain recognition.

But just like Israel, Kurdistan is going to need to take it; it won't be given. And just like Israel, all Kurdistan's neighbors will gang up on it for the first several decades of its life at least.

I actually think that there are a lot of parallels and that Kurdistan's best bet is to take a page from Israel's book: double down on the fight, dig in heels in all directions, build for your own nation, and get used to the shit treatment. Well, Turkey wouldn't have minded about the KRG (I think they are still on good terms), Turkey would have minded about the YPG/PKK. It would have been Iraq that would be uncomfortable about the KRG being treated as a country. Turkey is on good terms with the KRG. Your comment should have far more upvotes. So many people here don't seem to know about this. I think you're going to find that the thinking and mentality have changed. 

For the last couple of years, calan has been quite vocal about implementing Democratic Confederalism and while I'm unsure if that will last, we've had studies that suggests that it currently works. I was curious about Turkey's issues with the Kurds and found this.

A long history of bitterness
The whole notion of "countries" in the Middle East is a relatively new one.  Although there have always been cities, they didnt really have fixed borders for larger geographical areas until the Europeans came along and started drawing maps.

They were all used to gradually shifting alliances, and long-term feuds.  There was an overarching Ottoman empire in the region for centuries, but it didnt correspond to todays national boundaries.  Those boundaries were set up, mostly by Britain and France, after the Ottoman empire finally gave out in 1922.

The British and French set up the boundaries for their convenience, not for those of the underlying peoples.  In particular, the Kurds didnt get their own country but were instead divided up over a bunch of other countries.  They immediately had a revolution to change that, and were put down. So they had another revolution, which was put down.  And another, and another.

Turkey responded by clamping down on Kurdish identity, banning the language, which of course just makes resentment simmer more.  Things started to take a terrorist turn in the 70s, and so Turkey clamped down even harder.  So the Kurds hate the Turks, and the Turks fear the Kurds.

At this point you have to wonder why the Turks care about the Kurdish region at all.  They probably wonder why the United States bothered fighting its Civil War for unity was well.  The Kurds in Iraq are sitting on some oil fields, but the Kurds in Turkey arent.  

Partly its to keep the whole country from falling apart.  If you let the Kurds have a country, then the Zazas will want a country.  Give it to them, and the Armenians will want to secede.  And so on.

Partly, its because there are Kurds all over Turkey, not just in the Kurdistan region.  If the Kurds have a separate country it will cause unrest in Istanbul.  Turkey really wants to be a first-world country and join Europe, and they cant do that if theyre falling apart.

Mostly, at this point, I think its just sheer determination not to let the other guys win.

http://askville.amazon.com/Turkey-hate-Kurds/AnswerViewer.do?requestId=4238698 Why is everybody forgetting about Syria? I'm pretty sure Assad is also "bearing the brunt" of IS, even though he's not exactly our favorite dictator around. Considering Turkey has a stronger relationship with the KRG in Iraq than they do with the Iraqi government, I doubt the reasons are as you claim. Perhaps the Kurds weren't invited because it is not clear where the terrorists end and the freedom fighters begin. It's all blurred, and as a result, institutions with legitimacy lose that legitimacy because of their support for the PKK. But the average Redditor has no fucking idea about the past history of the PKK. I would have loved to see an alternate universe where Americans had to deal with actual terrorists in their land fighting to gain land from some of the states. I wonder how they would feel about it, considering they've been talking about 9/11 for over a decade, how would they handle casualties on their own soil every year?

Of course it's trendy now to hate Turkey and support the Kurds, even PKK, so the bandwagon rolls on. most redditors here don't know shit about the middle east, and they like to circlejerk around PKK and bash turkey/iran/SA Iran is missing too.  &gt;The countries financing and supporting ISIS (Qatar, Saudi Arabia and Turkey) 

Source? how this propagandist feel based "opinion" get much attention, how unaware you supposedly belong in 19th century I think it's because of the [PKK](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kurdistan_Workers%27_Party). And Western forces trying to suppress the libertarian socialist, or anarchist element. They did the same with Revolutionary Spain when fighting Franco.

Doesn't help them being classed a terrorist organization either. As a kurdish man I feel offended by this. 
 
The Kurdish army (Peshmerga) were the first ones to act and America aided them with guns and troops and Germany aided also in weapons.  40 countries signed a pact of "bombing" ISIS to the ground. 
 
The Iraqi army is cowering behind the Kurdish army and the American army. 
 
WE Kurds have been allies to America long long ago even before sadam hoessein. 

The Iraqi government is giving weapons to iraqi people who want to fight and.get trained by the American "ADVISORS" but what do they do? They never come back when they receive their guns and go back home and protect their own ass at home instead of fighting the shit head goat fuckers ISIS. 
 
I find this very offensive towards the Kurds.
 
The Peshmerga are keeping our own region calm and peaceful and always have fought every sources that wanted to attack our region.
 
I'm happy that the Americans are so helpful and always have been. 
The France and Germans have also added the Kurds very well.
 
Let them all have their own talk in London the Peshmerga and the American troops will fight further to keep the filth out of the world.
 
Let the hatred flow 
 
 Edit: I've read almost every comment in this full thread about this article on the Kurdish website.
 
And let me thank you all from the bottom of my heart for all the support. 
 
I understand it completely and can accept it also fully why we Kurds weren't invited. 
 
First: we still aren't an official country. 

Second:  the Turks would be totally pissed off by this of course. 
 
 Third: I know this is a meeting to convince other countries to help arm the Kurds and aid them in destroying ISIS.
 
And one more thing.
 
We Kurds have been let down more than once by so many allied country's... 
 
America Is the biggest allie of the Kurds.
They aided us in destroying the sadam empire and we were promised independence but nothing happened not even the troops that were promised. 
 
But that didn't stop us and that's just ONE example but the Americans are still and always will be the best friends and allies with us Kurds. 
 
We are grateful for every aid we have gotten and wil get and are getting.
 
I love you all guys and thank you for the support and aid. 
 
 
EDIT: THANK you stranger for the gold I really appreciate this.
 
And again thank you all brothers for all the support and understanding of our situation that concerns the whole wide world.  
 
I hope other nations other countries will understand that we all need to support my brothers in combat like the other countries are doing now and especially a thank you to AMERICA for their support for the long long years of support that has blessed us all. 
 
I'm happy to say and with all honesty that I'm glad and convinced that we can unite and get rid of these terrorism in the world 
 &gt; fighting the shit head goat fuckers ISIS

Yep, confirmed Kurd :) I'm sorry but they rape torture and execute people in the worst ways possible and let me tell you that they really fuck goats because they kill every woman or keep them as sex slaves  Hey why be sorry? You're on point. Fuck those cunts. As an American, I am ashamed of the lack of support to the Kurds.

As an Albanian, I see many similarities between our people. The borders drawn in our country left half the ethnic population in Yugoslavia; a union of the southern Slavic ethnicities which Albanians were and are constantly persecuted in. You guys are a secular group that values your nationality first, as are we, that has been constantly stepped on, as are we. The independence of Kosovo was a huge step in the right direction for us. Many Americans unfortunately don't understand why people want borders with their own ethnicity and it's a shame. Much love to you and your people, brother. Thank you for your words, I'm familiar with the problems you also have and it's all just a shame that things like this can happen. 
And again thanks brother 
  As an Iraqi Christian, I'm sure I can speak for the millions of other minorities in creed/ethnicity who have been bravely defended by Kurds in the Iraqi north when I say your efforts are greatly appreciated. I pray for the safety of your people every day man. I hope we see a independent Kurdistan one day. 

While I think it's not right to not invite the Kurds to this meeting, I have to imagine that U.S. Officials have reached out to Kurdish officials and explained the reasoning and all that. That's something us civilians wouldn't know about. I'm sure you guys are still being kept in the loop  Thank you for the insight. Beautifully articulated. 85% of people in this thread - "Omg wtf they should have been invited! I know I would have invited them." 90% of people in this thread - "As an American, I am ashamed and sorry that..." 95% of statistics in this thread are made up. 100% of the comments in this thread are comments.  Im calling bullshit ** ring ring ** This sub is retarded Yet still I find myself reading the comments here for entertainment... its like presenting a banana to a monkey in a glass box and watching him fling shit when he cant get the banana out I just think people have a short memory. They tend to only care about the last few years and chose to ignore everything else.

The fact that Turkey has been an ally to the west for decades and the PKK is de jure a terrorist organisation thats been killing civilians for years, is swiftly forgotten...its the same mindset that allowed the al-Qaida. Eliminate a threat just to install a group that will pose as another threat in the near future.

The simple truth is, Turkey is a much more reliable and stable ally than Kurdistan would be. It's because they are going to get screwed by their "allies"as soon as ISIS is gone. Kurdistan is not a country.   Iran is, and wasn't invited. Granted, it very much should be. Like Palestine for example. But too many interests in that part of the world to let any of that happen.  Bingo Wow this sub is a giant circle jerk without anyone giving reason's as to why inviting them is stupid as shit, at least if they are they aren't getting up voted enough. Here is just a few short reason's, I'd like to go into detail but guessing this will just get down voted to hell anyway.

First off the Kurds are not a country, alright whatever we all understand that.

Second Turkey geopolitical and just politically are very important, you think the west being able to station a navy there is not important? Have you looked at a recent map by any chance? 

Third being Iran, guess what the Kurds aren't just massive in Turkey you also have Iran which by the way Iran now has major influence in Syria, Iraq, Yemen, and always had influence in Lebanon. Iran has the stronger hand in all these countries. 

You don't think by recognizing a Kurdistan people in these countries will be pissed off? You think these countries are just going to let massive part's defect at will? It's funny cause we had that same argument over why Russia reclaiming area's just cause they have more Russian's is wrong. 

Also want to point out none of the rebel group's support a independent Kurdistan, sure maybe at some point's the FSA are willing to work with them but you'd be crazy to think it would ever last long. 

So what i am trying to say is if you really want a independent Kurdistan between Iran, Saudi Arabia, Turkey well you are simply asking for bloodshed.

I do not side with any of these government's...i honestly think they are all fucked one way or the other but please people think with your brain not emotion's. That's what people should have done after 9/11...

 I think Kurds deserved more (or atleast equally) as others to be present in the meeting. They have sacrificed a lot of their soldiers in the fight against this menace. I'm surprised that this surprises anyone.  Turkey hates Kurds. Westeners like Turkey. Therefore, Westeners don't invite Kurds. 

Simple as that It's because inviting the Kurds would piss off the Turkish.  The problem with the Kurds is that they want their own country. One in Syria, turkey and Iraq (maybe Iran). And no one else in the middle east really wants them to get one except maybe Israel. So if you see them being excluded it makes sense because none of the other parties will accept Kurd independence. (Down vote me boys)  'Leading' the war against IS? That's completely wrong. Syrian Arab Army under Assad's Alawites and Iraqi Army under the control of the Shiite dominated Iraqi 'unity' government lead the war against IS. 

 Oh for fucks sake David have you already forgotten that whole thing with the Gurkhas? Do you remember how embarrassing that was for the UK government and how it made everyone think they were ungrateful and possibly racist... yeah?  Come on now, i guess you are too busy outlawing female orgasms or whatever to give any respect to people dying to fight against tyranny.  Glad you have your moral priorities straight &gt;.&gt; Well that's bullshit. Kurds have been doing a fantastic job leading the ground war against those ISIS cunts. And another fuck you to progress, peace and rationality. The Kurds have been fighting long and hard for sovereignty and have stood firm where the Iraqi army buckled.

 It makes absolutely no sense to keep them leashed to countries that are so fundamentally different from the ideals we (supposedly)have in the west. Kurdistan is a democratic oasis in an otherwise desert of tyrannies and insane fanatics. One of the few places in the middle east where women aren't oppressed, minorities are protected and civil rights guaranteed by legislation.

It is ridiculous, and one of the moments that truly reveals that realpolitik and geopolitical interest dominate over common sense. The hypocrisy is astounding,fascist Saudia Arabia is the west's dearest friend where heads roll and lashes given on the drop of a facebook comment. But democratic Kurdistand and the PKK are terrorists, shameful.  Legit question cause I know little: if the Kurds are a subset of people in Iraq, how would you invite them? I would assume they don't have a president or ambassador to go in their stead. Maybe they are not Invited because they are to good at fighting ISIS and everyone else at the Conference is jealous. I'm Polish - This reminds me of when Poland was not invited to the WW2 victory celebrations (In London I believe), even though [Polish pilots and fighter squadrons were key and played a huge role in the Battle of Britain](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ptijNcDanVw), not to mention the cracking of the Enigma code, the storming of the Monte Cassino, and many other WW2 efforts.

The Kurds are never going to forget this. Not organised by the British government, they are just hosting it This is the first thing I thought of and I'm really glad someone bought it up. I think Churchill said it was his "bitterest regret" in his memoirs.  The brits also chemically castrated the brightest brit mind who had worked on cracking that code. Maybe it was worth skipping the party.  That is disappointing. Kurds should have been invited. International politics deems that a few digits lost is better than a lost limb. Explain, please. Are you referring to the trigger fingers of the asskickers vs. the hands of the hand-sitters or the feet of the own-foot-shooters? The digits are the Kurds' lives, the limb is relations between the west and Turkey (who controls Russia's access to the Mediterranean). Sadly, you're probably right... Not inviting the Kurds is a snub, but the Kurds are already out fighting. They aren't likely to stop over this. However, the coalition hopes to bring turkey in to help. Inviting the Kurds would have been a big snub to Turkey, and unlike the Kurds, Turkey can walk away. They're sacrificing what little goodwill they have with the kurds to give this thing with Turkey some sort of a chance.  I hope you are right and this will pay off. But I wonder if it is time for sticks rather than carrots for Turkey. Turkey is necrotising anyway. Kurdistan is not a country  It's a bit like inviting the Cornish, or the Scots, when Britain is already represented. If the Cornish or the Scots had their own army that was not under British control, and this army was the most effective army in the field, fighting for your side, you'd better be inviting the Cornish and the Scots. Kurdish Iraq has a different government, military, language, and currency then the "government" in Baghdad. They are as much a part of Iraq as the United States is a part of the British Empire.   No, it's not like that at all.  Yes it is. &gt; It's a bit like inviting the Cornish, or the Scots, when Britain is already represented.

Only if the British government systematically repressed the Cornish/Scots.  Some Cornish and Scottish people would probably claim that, to be honest. What about the Welsh?  We have been oppressed for so long people forget we even exist!   &gt; What about the Welsh? We have been oppressed for so long people forget we even exist!

How can we forget that you exist when so many of the best comedians on various BBC programs are Welsh? &gt; Some Cornish and Scottish people would probably claim that, to be honest.

There would be considerably less basis for that claim than for the claim that the Kurdish are repressed.  Yeah the Cornish are a strange people. Sounds like you don't know about the YPG/YPJ. That's because it's not an Anti-ISIS meeting, it's a meeting about how the nations involved can benefit and manipulate it to their advantage and gain. If we really wanted to be rid of ISIS, we'd have done it months ago. Turkey probably made a hissy fit about inviting the Kurds.  It's a shame that Turkey is so strategically located, otherwise we could just tell them to go fuck themselves. Yep.

If you invite the Kurds, you legitimize them as an independent people. 

After this is all over they'll probably end up getting some land in Syria and Iraq, which will then make the argument for part of Turkey being cut off stronger.

I'm sure the feelings they have about the West arming the Kurds are the same the UK or Spain would feel about arming the IRA or ETA to fight terror. They may have a common enemy now, but as soon as ISIS falls, those weapons will be turned against Turkey. Well I hope that they use the weapons against turkey. It's basically a fascist state.  Also the fact that we have the 2nd largest army in NATO. And honestly, Turkey is and will be more stronger than Kurdistan. So if Turkey was any other place then Anatolia and didn't support independent Kurdistan, they would still choose Turkey. Also, many western nations has strong trade relations with us, so it's not all dependent on strategic location.

Moreover, try to look at this like we do. Making Kurdistan independent would make the southeastern part of Turkey want independence even more. Oh, not to mention the fact that this is what most Turks feel. I personally prefer a independent Kurdistan from Turkey, Iran, Iraq and Syria(if they don't request too much land. Some Kurdish maps claims half of Turkey, which is obviously bullshit) because they're a pain in the ass to deal with. I'd certainly prefer if all troublemaker Kurds would go away if that would mean we'd give land.

You know shit. You're 100% right. We shouldn't aid the Kurds,the PKK are known to be terrorists. All the Kurdistan circle jerkers here are idiots, Kurdistan should not be given attention, it will only alienate turkey  To be honest, I just want them to fuck off from my country... &gt;Also the fact that we have the largest army in NATO. 

Lol what? 2nd*

Sorry about that. Turkey does have an unusually large military (about 1 million), but yeah I think that he's forgotten about the USA, (and that pure numbers don't really count as much in a modern war.) Exactly, I forgot US. Well Turkey has high number **and** sufficient tech. Yeah but it's military spending is still pretty low compared to other major NATO members (France and the UK) Too bad the Turkish army is content to sit on the border and watch Kurds die on the other side. I'd take a smaller army that isn't evil over that any day. Yeah, Turkey has the 2nd largest army in NATO. Turkey has one of the most powerful armies in the world, why so surprised? He said second, and he's right.

Turkey has the 2nd largest troop count in NATO. Kurdistan has long been a problem for turkey, I don't blame them for standing against them  He edited his comment. I edited it :) if they mean by terrorist cells then yes This is a good scenario for Turkish Kurdistan http://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/en/c/c7/OHAL.png

I always joke that we should let them have a vote in Kurdistan as they define it, they would only get like 30% of the vote if they were actively threatening voters The U.S. has a larger military than Turkey, and is in NATO. Turkey does have the second largest in NATO though. Oh yeah, sorry about that. [deleted] Sure thing my tactical genious friend. Your logic is flawed. They're necessary You'd prefer to grant them independence on a small chunk of land of Turkey? Do you know how much blood has been shed by your grand grandfathers to fight for this country? Are you goint to give it just like that to a couple of terrorists?  People keep on forgetting that PKK ARE TERRORISTS JUST LIKE ISIS. They may not be as extreme, but they certainly aren't any better. Ah fuck off. Not all kurds are terrorists. hay gerizekali. I said PKK are terrorists, not every kurd. Kurdistan =/= PKK, which you implied. Those who do not support PKK usually also are happy about living in Turkey. You don't have to let Kurdistan become independent. You can keep the southeast of Turkey if you want. Just follow the blueprint of how you got to keep the northeast and kill all the non-Turks living there.  Oh yes. Armenian Genocide. The more you mention it, the less we care. The Southeastern part of Turkey SHOULD HAVE independence. It would have had it, if the Turkish fascists hadn't committed a genocide against them.

 What the fuck did I just say? Just repeating your point because most people will read your first paragraph and think you are pro-Turkey keeping the whole damn thing, and skip your second paragraph. Oh, I'm still pro-Turkey. Getting rid of Kurdistan would help us in the long run. Yeah, and them as well. Though how worried are you about rural people dragging the country into more of an Islamic state? Islamic state? I'm obviously worried about that but the reason creating a Kurdistan out of Turkey is a good idea is that state provides Kurds with free electricity, water and other needs. Also, those regions directly border the madness that is Middle East and creating Kurdistan would end the PKK and other rebellions. Those regions also have the lowest GDP and HDI in Turkey, they litterally provide nothing to us.


The only downside would be the oil there. Also the size of the land they want is important to note. I had it explained to me by friends in Turkey that the country is divided into 3 currently. The secular, educated people in urban centres, the rural people who favour Islam in politics, and the Kurds who are secular but have a different agenda (obviously).

Are you worried about the rural people having more control and further eroding secularism in Turkey? Not really. Rural people just live their on lives mostly, they won't have much power. [deleted] I think the fact that they're not an internationally recognized country also works against them in this case. to be honest here, iran is leading the war against this terrorist organization and iran wasnt invited either. **Irans General Qassem Suleimani masterminds Iraq ground war** http://english.alarabiya.net/en/perspective/profiles/2014/11/05/Iran-s-General-Qassem-Suleimani-masterminds-Iraq-ground-war.html **Meet The 'Invisible General' Leading The War On ISIS** http://www.businessinsider.com/meet-the-invisible-general-leading-the-war-on-isis-2014-9?IR=T **Kurdish President: Iran Arming Peshmerga Against ISIS** http://news.antiwar.com/2014/08/26/kurdish-president-iran-arming-peshmerga-against-isis/  /u/KurdishAtheist is also /u/Kurdish-Nationalist, who must be one of the most psychotic and delusional redditors I've ever come across after being here for ~5 years **Article summary:** 

---


&gt;* ERBIL, Kurdistan RegionThe Kurdish President Masoud Barzani said he was disappointed that the Kurdistan Region was not invited to the anti-ISIS coalition conference in London where on Thursday world leaders pledged to defeat the Islamic State (ISIS).





I express my and Kurdistan peoples disappointment with the organizers of this conference and it is unfortunate that the people of Kurdistan do the sacrifice and the credit goes to others, said Kurdistan Region President Masoud Barzani in a statement.

&gt;* Leaders of 21 coalition states gathered in London to stress their commitment against ISIS and the impact coalition air strikes have made against the radical group.

&gt;* Barzani said that Kurdistan was leading the war against ISIS and it deserved to be present in such meetings.





The people of Kurdistan bear the brunt of this situation and no country or party can represent or truly convey their voice in international gatherings, he said.


---
^I'm ^a ^bot, ^v2. ^This ^is ^not ^a ^replacement ^for ^reading ^the [**^original ^article**](http://rudaw.net/english/kurdistan/23012015)^! ^Report ^problems [^here](http://reddit.com/r/bitofnewsbot)^. 

**^Learn ^how ^it ^works: [^Bit ^of ^News](http://www.bitofnews.com/about)** Ignore those who are doing the most, Kurds, Iran, Syria

Have Turkey there.

Whoever planned this needs to go take a walk in al Raqqah [Word cloud out of all the comments.](http://i.imgur.com/kEHnmHE.png)

Don't like this? Message me! I don't think Israel was either (not sure), and no one has done more to counter Islamic terrorism than the Israelis. I think ill have extra butter on my popcorn. So shitty. [deleted] You do realise that it's an international convention and the only thing it has to do with the Birtish is that it's being held in London?  Neither Syria, and they lead the war against ISIS, Kurds and Iraqi army come next. They cannot invite the Kurds because they are part of Iraq. So the Iraqi minister represented them. I don't buy into the Turkey thing... I mean Palestinian and Israeli leaders were at the march in Paris. Why should this be any different? Nah, Syria and Lebanon are leading the war against Daesh. Kurdish communists wouldn't still do shit if Daesh didn't attack them. Except ISIS got powerful because of the weak Syrian Army. They got the most *important* loot from the Syrian Army. What they stole from the SAA made their offensive against the Iraqi army possible.  They got the loot from the Free Syrian Army i.e. traitors. Gas is $1.70/gal [$0.44/L] in Ohio. I feel like I'm rich. 

[E: For our metric friends.] Full tank on my truck for $30. First time since I bought it. [deleted] Where I am diesel is still over $3/gallon where gas is under $2/gallon. I live in a cold area though, so it will probably take a while for the cold-weather diesel blend to catch up in the price drop. Nope, developing countries like China and India are using a ton of diesel.  Gone are the days back in the early 2000s where diesel was cheaper or even the same price.......

I say this as an owner of a diesel vehicle since 2003.   Interesting! I don't know anything about diesel. What accounts for the price difference, given that both it and gas, are oil products? Well, the short answer is that diesel is taxed at a higher rate than regular gasoline. The US average for federal, state, and local taxes on gasoline &amp; diesel are [$0.499 and $0.554](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fuel_taxes_in_the_United_States) respectively. 

At the federal level, [there's actually a pretty interesting story](http://www.businessinsider.com/why-diesel-costs-more-than-gasoline-2013-10) behind the different  tax rates ($0.184 for gas and $0.244 for diesel). The article is about President Reagan and the trucking industry getting into a slapfight during the 80s.

As for why there's a $1 difference in the prices, it's basically due completely to how refineries are configured in the US. The US creates more gasoline than diesel fuel, while the opposite is true in Europe. [Here](http://www.reddit.com/r/explainlikeimfive/comments/2gaieq/eli5_why_in_north_america_is_diesel_more/) is a great ELI5 thread about it. The best answer in that thread:

&gt;I finally can answer something. It's simply a matter of supply.

&gt;It's simply a matter of refinery configuration. In the US most refineries are optimized to make gasoline over diesel. We have units call fluid catalytic crackers that break down long hydrocarbon chains into components meant for gasoline.

&gt;In Europe most refineries instead have hydro-crackers that instead break down long hydrocarbon chains into components for diesel.

&gt;Also trade flows are such that the US tends to export surplus diesel and imports gasoline and vice versa for Europe. This trade flow happens because of demand and arbitrage.

&gt;Source: I trade crude oil

&gt;TL:DR - European refineries make more diesel than gasoline and vice versa in the US

Hope that helps!


**Edit**

/u/Nanoo_1972 pointed out that refining diesel costs more than gasoline, so I did a bit of research on it.

I actually just looked it up, and the US Energy Information Administration actually has a [a breakdown](http://www.eia.gov/petroleum/gasdiesel/) of what you're paying for in a gallon of either.

It's for November, but according to their percentages, here's a little chart of what you're paying for in a gallon of gas or diesel:

**Gasoline**
-----
$2.91/gal

Taxes: $0.4365/gal (15%)

Distribution &amp; marketing: $0.4947 (17%)

Refining: $0.1746 (6%)

Crude Oil: $1.8042 (62%)

**Diesel**
----
$3.65/gal

Taxes: $0.511 (14%)

Distribution &amp; Marketing: $0.8776 (24%)

Refining: $0.4745 (13%)

Crude Oil: $1.825 (50%)

According to their figures, it costs 2.7x more to refine diesel fuel as it does regular gasoline. You'll also have to give each of the categories a +/- of a few cents because I'm assuming that the percentages given are rounded to the nearest whole number.

On a side-note, I've had some fun researching this a little bit.

 1.14/L in UK :( 
This sux.

E: Thats over 5/gallon ($7.62) If gas cost 7.62 dollars in the United States there would literally be murders.  So nothing would change? *more** murders. murders intensifies. m'urders

Edit: Thanks for the gold, kind stranger! tips knife

EDIT: rip apart my inbox why dont cha!? Its as cheap as 1.07 in places woo  1.54 in Flint Michigan Yeah but... Flint. :( It's good enough for Harry Potter  Referring to [this.](http://www.reddit.com/r/pics/comments/2qvvr3/this_guy_was_hanging_out_at_a_bob_evans_in_flint/) It's $2.55 right next door in Pennsylvania thanks to Tom Corbett.  Upvoted because your state is even worse than mine.  I hope I never have to witness another Gov. that is as big of a piece of shit as Corbett was.  Regardless of party pretty much NOBODY liked him. $7,6/gal [$2/L] in Norway. Same as a year ago.... Don't you guys use whale oil, though? TIL /u/TheEndgame is literally Corvo. You've never been to Dunwall, Norway? Have you considered returning to steam power and burning wood? Or burning their virgins, I hear they're pretty hot in Scandinavia.  Well we can't just waste the hot virgins. Looks like it's time to raid Britain again. 29p a litre? holy shit. Seems insane doesn't it. We're only down to ~1.06 for unleaded. At 0.29 I'd be driving around just for the hell of it. haha you sir are a honorary american with that attitude, we salute you. Hands full of cigarettes and Budweiser, I'll just salute with my assault rifle. England = 130,395 km^2

Ohio = 116,096 km^2

And we aren't even close to the biggest or most densely populated state.  Hey.

That's a fun fact.

Now when someone asks me what the coolest thing about Ohio is, I can be all like "Well, we are almost the size of England." I commented with gas prices in Western Ohio back on [December 14th \(22 days before this post\)](https://np.reddit.com/r/pics/comments/2p8qz0/at_the_age_of_46_i_never_thought_id_see_this/cmumo94).

Since then, gas prices have dropped to $1.77/gal ($0.47/L or 0.39/L) which is a change of -$0.58/gal (-$0.15/L or -0.11/L) in less than a month.

I'm actually curious to see how far it'll go now because I was expecting it to repeat 2008 and start moving back up once the new year started. We're heading for the good ol' days, where $5 is gas money, and $20 fills your tank. 

 &gt;We're heading for the good ol' days, where $5 is gas money, and $20 fills your tank. 

&gt;

$5 was always gas money for me....

I have shit friends I'm paying 1,30 per liter in Slovenia. SLOVENIA! same in Slovakia and also Austria and a couple of other countries in Central Europe :) The only difference between Slovakia/Slovenia and Austria is that their average wage is more than 100% bigger than ours, ha. Still $2.50 in N.Va.  I'm jealous. Russian redditor here. Our ruble already dropped like 2 times compare to dollar. Almost everything becomes twice expensive for us. We are in deep shit right now. So almost immediately we became 2 times poorer.. 

Russians still didn't fully realize how much bad things turned out. We have holidays at the moment. I expect people will start to feel the deep shit thing in about a month..

Amazingly Putin's rating are still extremely high.  &gt; Our ruble already dropped like 2 times compare to dollar. Almost everything becomes twice expensive for us. We are in deep shit right now.

Im from Venezuela, you are just starting, it truly gets worse that's fucking scary :( How accurate do you think those approval ratings are?  it's pretty accurate. Thanks to heavily propaganda. People trust to russian TV for some reason and will trust anything they hear from TV. That's why Putin took under control all TV channels. People don't have choice as they receive one side of information only. What is your approval of Putin? Also do you ever try telling people that the TV channels are filled with propaganda and false information? Imagine when you hear one thing almost everyday and everyday for years and years.. And at some point a dude appears and say that's all you heard is a lie. They will just assume you're fucking crazy.

Our propaganda works amazingly well. 
 What do you think of putin? On another note do you ever run into someone who agrees with you or is open about being against putin? I think he is a thief, a manipulator, a cynic, and money lover.
He wants money and power for life. He doesn't care about anything else. That's just a business for him.

Yes, I know people who disagree with Putin propaganda. Usually those people travel outside of Russia, have good education and use Internet ^ To anybody who feels apathetic about net neutrality. &gt; use Internet

As somone who is fairly curious about russia (i love your old firearms), how common is internet access there? I mean we see tons of videos that come from russia, but are we mostly seeing collections coming from a select few people with access to the internet? about 60% of russians have access to the Internet This is the exact same thing in Venezuela, except that even with that they don't have extremely high ratings. Imagine how shitty stuff is here. Just like what happened with the currency. The Venezuelan BsF was traded at 9 BsF per USD in 2010 and half 2011.right this moment it's 180 BsF per USD. That's a devaluation of 20 times against the dollar in like 3 years. 

Edit: oh snap! My first gilded message! Thanks!  Shit, this is really fucked up! Do you have enough money to buy food? How situation is bad actually? Is it possible to buy like a new laptop for a regular person? A lot of food stuff is regulated by government so they are artificially held at "low"  prices so that people can afford them. Bht this means that the country itself is pay a shit load of money to import and get that food on shelves just to save face. A laptop can be bought only if you either make too much money, or you use your travelling dollar allowance to buy it.
Basically if you are going to travel, you ask for government permission  and they allow you to spend up to 3000$ a year with a discounted price which goes to like 11 BsF pero USD. So people basically travel to use their credit card and change that to cash then resell those dollars in the black market and make some money in the process. It's actually illegal but one of the only ways people have to make enough money to get by. 

For comparison, my job as an engineer here in Venezuela pays me about 30000BsF a month which is a really really good salary. A laptop will cost about 150-200k or whelatever the USD price x 180 (as 180 is the price of the USD in the black market) 

So it would take an ungodly amount of time to buy a TV or  a laptop without doing that illegal trick I just told you about  I was skeptical, too, but several international pollsters have surveyed the country and found the same results as domestic polls.

The election results, though, are ridiculous. 99% support in Chechnya, the part of the country he fought a war with? Ridiculous. Especially when he got over 100% of the vote in one location. Yeah, this is why a diversified economy is important. Russia enjoyed high oil prices for a long time and they should have used that time to develope other industries. Now the pendulum is swinging back the other way. Sucks for the everyman tho.  Give it some time. Economic pain is a long-term ordeal. The US dollar has never crashed that severely in recent history. Even in 2008, it looks like it crashed only 14% vs. the Euro in one year (and maybe 25% since its local height in 2005).

Granted, the Euro might have been dropping as well, but still.

In other words, this sounds like an unprecedented fucking. They got into a dick swinging contest with the EU/US and lost...badly. I wonder how long until they concede. 

Even if they get out of this hole, they are still in the same position. One trick pony economy that can get fucked by Saudi Arabia/OPEC at the drop of a hat. Not to mention that they are giving EU the best incentive to be as energy independent as possible.  Iv got an idea guys! Lets take out a big loan and buy a bunch of gasoline! Store it somewhere, maybe in someone's bar. Then sell it when the prices go back up! just count the gas as you pour it in the buyer's cars WILDCARD, BITCHES! We should start a whole market for things like this! We can do it for corn, wheat, and other commodities. It's like we're buying in preparation for the future. We can call it the 'futures market'!  Remember when the price of...everything... went up when oil crossed the $100 dollar mark? Groceries especially? Has anyone's electricity bill gone down?  Have the prices of any food or supplies gone down?

Don't worry though, the next time oil prices skyrocket, everything will increase again to "compensate." [deleted] Can confirm. Domino's here charges $2.50 for delivery and only gives the drivers $1.50 of it...but then they have to claim a minimum of $1 per delivery in tips.

 Yeah, I found a better job. Papa Johns charged $2 for delivery and drivers got none of it. That was a great job.  While I am not a fan of Papa Johns, when I worked there I got $1.50 from the delivery charge. Not sure if this is regional or due to the particular owners. To be fair a lot of shipping related fleets are diesel which still sits at 3$/gal. That semi truck bringing the iPhones to Texas from a freight that was shipped to California from China does not run on unleaded unfortunately.  Is this good or bad? ELI5 please As someone who works in the oil industry, bad. As someone who has to drive 45 miles to work every day, good! The gas is also cursed.  As someone who studied advanced macroeconomics in college, I can say that lower oil prices are one of the best things that can possibly happen to an economy that consumes a lot of oil. Oh no doubt. My company actually isnt very worried about it, and I dont plan on working in this industry forever. And also as a recent graduate with student loans to pay, Im *especially* glad gas is so cheap right now! You don't know how poor you are until paying back Student Loans kick in! It's like paying rent on your job.  This hits hard.

I pay $700 a month on my student loans. My rent is $600... that is fucking depressing, paying for the privilege of having a job 0100101010 Favorite comment of the year so far. 359 days remaining until I get out of this hellhole


every year I am also a recent grad who just started 3 months ago with a major oil field service company (Schlumberger) and have loans to pay. They haven't overreacted so much as to consider laying anyone off (yet), and I don't pay for gas anyway (company truck for personal use and fleet card with it) so this isn't necessairlky that good for me. Just makes me an easy target if they finally decide to start the lay offs (low on the totem pole) but I'm glad I work for a large company that can survive these prices

Edit: For some of you wondering, layoffs usually begin with senior staff with severance packages, as well field and contract workers. But what Schlumberger did as well (possibly before that) was cut costs at first to avoid layoffs. A big travel ban is imposed, as well as expense restrictions. My manager also says that a 2 week furlough has happened before (2 weeks vacation, unpaid) that managed to save hundreds of jobs Yeah, but being low on the totem pole isnt necessarily bad - they care about the bottom line, so as long as your work is up to par, you are cheaper to keep than other guys who have the same job and have been there a few years longer. I'm in your boat as well, hoping we can ride out this tumble. Yeah, you're right about that.  As a 50-something oil-industry employee with 27 years at my company, I would probably be one of the first to go....with early retirement benefits and best wishes for my future.  Hard to imagine anyone letting go of young engineers...talented ones are hard to find these days. It's pretty much good for everyone but the oil industry.  Just about every consumer and business uses energy.  Lower costs for businesses mean more money for hiring, investment, wage increases, etc.  More money for the consumer means more money to spend on everything else, which also helps those businesses.  Cheap energy is good.

Now, it's a bit of a downer for the US since much of our recent economic growth has been spurred by a domestic oil and gas boom... but that has also lead to cheaper energy prices, which extend the boom.  But the growth now has to move into to other sectors of the economy, not just fracking boom towns in the Midwest.  (Although natural gas fracking will still be strong.)

It is WAY worse for countries like Russia and Venezuela, which rely on oil exports for much of their economy, and for groups like ISIS.

It was a little bad for the stock market today because the price dropped so low people started selling a lot of oil-related stocks, but that's a short-term issue; it won't depress the overall market long term.
 Sustained low oil prices will make investment into renewable and clean energy unattractive. For the average American low oil prices will feel good. 

When you take into account the negative externality of continued oil usage the low price is a terrible thing. There's no guarantee this will be sustained. Actually, it's very likely it won't, since this price doesn't cover drilling new wells, so when these dry out supply will drop and prices go back up.

Power producers already see renewables as a hedge against the possibility of higher natural gas prices. Even if prices are down, the expected volatility over the mid term is up. some of us still want solar panels and teslas regardless of what gas costs =) Yes, of course, but systemic change won't be driven by individuals. At some point, hydraulic fracturing will no longer be economically viable. It already isn't.

http://www.bloomberg.com/image/iXaVTKmyvJfo.jpg nope not for the short term, but a rebound should bring it back to 80ish+ in the next year or two.  That will weed out and kill some of the other players in the market so OPEC can keep their share and make more money down the line. I think this is the strategy, it's a war of attrition, knowing that if money are the soldiers, they have more soldiers. So uh... are there other people like me in their mid 30s who are impressed gas prices are so low, but legitimately won't be shocked until it's $1 a gallon like it used to be when we were in high school?

It doesn't really feel like that long ago, $2.20 a gallon still seems incredibly expensive whereas $4 a gallon felt *crazy*.  Getting older is strange. Well if you account for inflation you are actually closer to those old days than you think! That's a fair point!  Someone replied and said that number should be around $1.40. Used to fill my car up to the top (bounced car to get air bubbles out), buy a soda and candy bar, with a twenty dollar bill. Still got change back.
 A $20 bill was like a golden ticket in high school. It was a wonderful time to be alive. Delivering pizza many nights would yield three or four of these magic tokens! It wasn't a bad job at the time considering you still made above min wage if you worked the kitchen well enough.

Strange to be in my mid 30s and know I used to count nickels. The difference in 95 cent gas and 1.15 was just too many nickels.

Excuse me while I shake my cane and yell at a cloud. I remember a few months back when people were saying that it will never fall below 70 bucks a barrel Lets see if this works...  It will never fall below $30 a barrel. Definitely not $25 though.  It will ***NEVER*** fall below $20/barrel. It will never fall below $1 a barrel  Oil will NEVER EVER IN A MILLION TRILLION YEARS be $.01 a barrel. You'll never have to pay people to take barrels of oil from you.  Ever. You wouldn't download a barrel of oil. rip Plan B to go to Fort McMurray in case I don't land a good post-grad job  [deleted] I understand *why* OPEC is doing this but can someone explain *how* they're doing it? is it as simple as flooding the market with more oil? Are less people buying? It's really about what OPEC (or, rather, Saudi Arabia) *isn't* doing.

Usually, OPEC would cut back on production. Naturally, as prices rise, most countries in OPEC would *like* to sell more crude, but if a lot of them did that, the price would drop again. That's why OPEC is a cartel, so they can control output and raise prices.

Now, even in OPEC, countries had an incentive to "fudge" on the production limits. While it benefits an OPEC nation to sell less oil for more, it *really* benefits those that sell more for more, while others sell less. Saudi Arabia *used* to be able to cut production and absorb those "cheatings". Well, not anymore.

SA is no longer the hegemon in production it used to be simply because there is a lot more oil coming from all over. US shale gas, US gulf drilling, a stabilized Iraq, a desperate Russia, etc. **Saudi Arabia can no longer cut production sufficient to absorb "cheating" OPEC nations, US production, and Venezuelan and Russian desperation**.

Since SA can't absorb it, OPEC knows their cartel is ineffective. The next best plan, then, is to suddenly drop oil prices for an extended period of time, destroying US shale producers (and damaging prospects for alternative fuel vehicles) with a prolonged period of unprofitability, then....**wait for the right time to resume the OPEC-of-old**. Which then will return the price per barrel to $100 or so. What's stopping those companies or new ones to go back to fracking or whatever method they used before?  It takes a while to restart production, and capital is going to be much harder to come by when lenders know you're in an industry that Saudi Arabia likes to fuck with. Good luck getting a loan when it's entirely possible you'll be losing money in 2 years.

Basically, Saudi Arabia can make shale oil very, very unstable without much skin off it's teeth. So why can't other countries not buy cheap oil right now and then use it later or sell it again when prices go up? I mean we have passed peak oil right? Logically oil should only become more expensive as the world is still using more and more oil. (once in a while there is a dip in consumption but overall with more countries becoming more industrialised the demand for oil keeps on rising)  &gt; So why can't other countries not buy cheap oil right now and then use it later or sell it again when prices go up?

They definitely can, and I'm sure we're filling the US Strategic Oil Reserve as fast as we possibly can. But there's not really a way to store *that much* oil, other than leaving it in the ground, where it is. Though I could be wrong. 1. Buy cheap oil on the market.
2. Pump oil back into Texas ground, until we need it again .
3. Profit? There is less demand, but the production is kept at the same levels. It is speculated that OPEC is trying to force US shale oil companies to scale back.
 
Edit: Alright so because this got a fair few replies, here is where I read about it. http://www.vox.com/2014/12/16/7401705/oil-prices-falling

Also, I didn't include all possible reasons, only the one I believed in the most, because I was lazy and on my phone. [deleted] Makes me think of a warren buffet quote: "Be Fearful When Others Are Greedy and Greedy When Others Are Fearful" This makes me think of a Warren G quote "REGULATORS!!! MOUNT UP!" [deleted] Also worth pointing out that TSLA is trading at 210.09 right now, and has been falling pretty much in proportion to oil prices, off a September high of 286. If you want to get on the Tesla train, now's your moment. They'll be selling a $30k all-electric car in two years, and it's up to you to guess whether oil will still be cheap when that happens.  **Article summary:** 

---


&gt;* The US oil price has fallen below the symbolic threshold of $50 a barrel for the first time since April 2009.

&gt;* US oil production has soared recently, as fracking - or the process of extracting oil from shale rock by injecting fluids into the ground - has revolutionised oil production in the country, transforming US states such as North Dakota and Pennsylvania in the process.

&gt;* The price of Brent crude also fell on Monday, dipping more than 6% to trade at below $53 a barrel.


---
^I'm ^a ^bot, ^v2. ^This ^is ^not ^a ^replacement ^for ^reading ^the [**^original ^article**](http://www.bbc.co.uk/news/business-30687669)^! ^Report ^problems [^here](http://reddit.com/r/bitofnewsbot)^. 

**^Learn ^how ^it ^works: [^Bit ^of ^News](http://www.bitofnews.com/about)** [deleted] Studies have shown that whether gas went down in the previous WEEK has a noticeable effect on the sales of SUV's and trucks.

The previous WEEK. Dude, the first derivative of gas prices is negative, let's spurge! You're behind the times. I bought my hummer when the *second* derivative went negative! This is about the highest level of math jokes that I can still comprehend :) Time to breakout the *THIRD* derivative! Don't be a jerk. So true. I saw an interview on my local news with a man who just bought a gas guzzling truck solely because gas prices are so low. 


His lack of foresight is incredible. By next year, the prices will have shot up and that man will have realized what a big mistake he made. Except he won't. He'll blame the politicians for screwing it up for him.  "OBUMMER DONE RAISED THE GAS PRICES AGAIN" That's one of the things I hate about Facebook. Gas goes up they blame the President. Gas goes down they thank God.  &gt;That's one of the things I hate about ~~Facebook~~ my family and friends

 Ahhh, the old God-President hysteresis loop.  It's what keeps the Internet warm. good. i hope more idiots do this so i can get cheap vehicles in a couple years.

EDIT: Yes I'm aware the vehicle would still be a gas guzzler. But to some, gas guzzling trucks and has guzzling large vehicles are necessary and budgeted for. 

The idiots are the ones who buy them who don't need them or can't afford the fuel making the purchase a stupid purchase.  never encourage idiots to do their best work Idiots can find encouragement even in the sternest of warnings. That's what makes them idiots. "Invent something idiot-proof and someone will invent a better idiot." Nothing is foolproof to a talented fool. A guy I know did exactly this in 2008 when gas prices were super low for a few months. He buys this veritable monster truck, expecting a full tank of gas to cost him no more than about $40-$45. A couple of years later, when gas prices were back up near their 10 year peak, he takes a snapshot of his $110 fuel charge and posts it on Facebook with the caption "fuck Obama."  "Fuck yourself" - Obama

Yeah, what an idiot. I'm as Libertarian as they come, and that shit is just ridiculous.  Obama has about as much effect on gas prices as my farts do.  On the upside, take solace in the fact that he punished himself... as long as he has that "dream truck," he'll be paying out the ass for gasoline.

Myself?  I could've bought the most efficient car possible with my budget, but I didn't.  I bought a Subaru.  It's reasonably efficient, and doesn't give a fuck about the snow that covers my town 60% of the year. Lol I never understood that. Like "Fuckin' Obama! Manipulating global markets to annoy me!" Bought a Mazda 3 last month when it was 3+ bucks/gallon because I wanted a car that got 30 or more mpg. The low prices now are just a bonus and take the initial sting of having a car payment now. The less gas that I use, the better. Higher gas prices has had a really good impact on innovation. I don't think hybrids and Teslas would have been mainstream if gas prices were at where they are now. Looking forward to seeing hydrogen fuel cell vehicles in the near future.  Just passed an On-Cue that had $1.59 in Okc.
 I'm gonna bleached my hair and start listening to Smash Mouth and relive the good ol day.  [deleted] But just remember you got the 2016 Summer Olympics!

Everyone will want to come and visit and spend!

Not.
 They did during the WC didn't they?  Not really. From what I remember, tourists stuck pretty strictly to tourist areas, which doesn't really do much for the rest of Brazil, especially with a corrupt government that's not going to want to distribute the money they did make  who the hell is going to want to venture outside of the tourist destinations when they could become one of the 50,000? I'm going to Rio actually.  Not stepping foot outside of the grounds.  Not even travelling to the more distant venues.

I love the Olympics, but I want to come home. Butt implants. Thats how your country functions [deleted] I remember 5-10ish years ago when my parent and his friends were discussing politics they were using Brazil as a shining example of what to do. I live in Argentina. Brazil was the bomb and Argentina was shit.

How the times have changed. Now Brazil is shit and Argentina is shit Just read an article for a philosophy class from 1998: "If US oil prices per gallon were to get up to $2.50, the United States would not know what to do with itself besides walk" Here in Southern Louisiana, all the "oilfield trash" are selling their F-350's, boats, RV's, ATV's, Toy Hauler Campers because they can't afford them any longer.

The "spoiled oilfield wives" are all over Facebook complaining that "this is insane, gas should be $3.00 or more per gallon", or "who's going to pay our bills?" and the best one, "this will affect EVERYONE".

I like the low gas prices. We've been suffering with high gas prices for a while. It's nice to have a break. Who's going to pay your bills? Well, if you weren't spending your husband's paycheck on useless shit and put it in savings, you know, *for a rainy day*, you wouldn't have to worry as much. 

 You should post some screenshots.  Yes, yes indeed. This schadenfreude-flavored popcorn isn't going to eat itself. Why isn't /r/oilfieldtrash a(n active) thing yet?

*edit for accuracy That sub while be filled with posts of Albertans in no time, fuck yah baud. I met this dude in a bar in Wyoming last week that was complaining about it too. I just said "Be happy you had the chance to make $90k a year when you did, you won't win any friends by bitching about oil prices being low. Keep that shit to yourself." I think he got the message. I met a guy last year who was bitching about the amount of taxes he had to pay (somewhere around 30,000$) which brought his overall take home to about 90K ....I simply looked at him, looked around the nice ass house that he RENTED and said "The amount you paid in taxes is more than I made last year ...how is it that I have more in my savings, more stability, and don't live paycheck to paycheck like you do?" "Well, I like my toys" ....And that's when it hit me - the young guys do it for the money and the travel and are left with nothing to show for it....similar to how some end up when they leave the service. Yup. Exactly. I have an uncle who made around $150k in the oil fields. They spent money like crazy. Atvs, two big houses, pool, three new cars including a Mercedes. Their 9&amp;10 year old kids are extremely arrogant with iPads, iPhones and every gaming system. He just lost his job and his wife was crying saying they're about to lose their homes. Literally didn't have anything saved. I feel bad for them, but if they would've managed their money right they would have been well off. Maybe it'll be a good life lesson. 

 &gt;Maybe it'll be a good life lesson. 

You would hope so, but more than likely the only people learning life lessons from the situation are outside observers witnessing their bad examples. It's depressing. Most of these types would be equally broke regardless of whether they were making 30K or 300K a year. In my experience most people like this NEVER LEARN. They end up either going broke and scraping by on welfare or working until the day they die, with their will essentially being an eternal IOU.

I have met a few who were able to avoid shitty outcomes by owning up to their failures and employing someone else to handle their finances for them when they were still making good money. You would think it would be less embarrassing to admit that you rely on your accountant for a monthly allowance than having to ask for a ride to your bankruptcy hearing because your car was repossessed. It's hilarious how many people here (of which i'm assuming many aren't in the industry) are specifying break-even prices for oil production. Commenters are quoting $60/bbl, $40, $20... I even read $11 in one comment.

Determining the break-even price for oil production depends on multiple factors including:

- The oil density

- If the oil is sweet or sour

- How much water the well produces

- Production mechanism (primary production vs waterflood, etc.)

- Location of the well (translates to access to oilfield services, transportation costs to bring the oil to market, etc.)

- The specific operator and their cost structure, overhead, etc.

There's also the difference between continuing to produce an existing well vs spending the capital to drill a new well. Investment in new wells would stop before an existing well is shut-in.

I bring all this up to say that's it's not as simple as it's sometimes made to be. Each company will have varying break-even prices for oil production in each of their oil fields. Sure we could probably quote an average for all operators and all fields... but that's not how it works in real life.

There's no question that we will see a decrease in the drilling of new wells starting with the higher cost operators and the higher cost and/or higher risk wells. And many operators will also be reviewing their current production and higher operating cost wells for potential shut-in.

(P.S. there's also the aspect of whether a company has hedged production at higher prices) I can fill my tank on $15. It's beautiful. Prediction: oil prices drop to record lows, people are stoked, and nobody realizes that the tax per gallon is doubled or tripled because the price is still lower.  People will be happy with $2.10-2.30 a gallon when they could be at $1.80-2.00 Sounds like you are in California, too. :( Why does this scare me?... I feel like this is equivalent to the calm before a storm for some reason.. Just close the tab, no one here has any clue what they are talking about I generally hate these "all the comments suck" comments, but yeah this thread does seem to be filled mostly with:

1. I was telling everyone it's a really good idea to buy electric cars since gas was $4/gal, so now that gas is $2/gal it's also a really good idea!

2. I don't understand inflation but I want to lecture people about economics!

3. The Saudis are doing this to hurt the US.  No wait they're doing it to help the US hurt Russia.  No wait the US is doing it to hurt the Saudis.  No wait it's just evil greedy people being evil.

4. When working class guys lost their jobs because the car industry in Detroit was collapsing, that was super awful and sad but now that working class guys are losing their jobs because the oil industry is dipping I think it's hilarious. Kuwait redditor here. This isn't a US vs. the Middle East scenario whatsoever. If anything, Saudi and the US are more united on this topic than ever. Saudi is lowering the price to comply with the American political agenda:

1) To screw Russia over because of the Ukraine crisis
2) To minimize Iran's GDP to bleed them completely dry with the sanctions already against them for their nuclear program
3) To reduce global oil prices below the price ISIS sells oil (approx. 40$ per barrel)

Saudi is gaining as well as when the rest of OPEC ceases oil production due to lack of profitability, they ramp up the prices exponentially... we will get a nasty shock in a few years time! Meanwhile Arab countries are reducing expenditure drastically to prevent defaulting on their financial reserves. Correct in result, but completely misguided in motive. All of these reasons are secondary and tertiary benefits. The House of Saud only works for the House of Saud, full stop.  Lets take a look: The Saudis are, first and foremost, looking to shut down American and Canadian oil production which has grown as a result of sustained high oil prices. You must remember, US companies cannot legally export crude oil, so only by depressing the price of oil in the US for a sustained period of time will these North American companies be forced to shut down their substantially higher cost production. The fact that it hurts the Russian Federation and Iran (who are supporting the (Shia) ~~Alouettes~~ Alawites in Syria) is an added bonus, but not the primary reason. The HoS wants to regain supremacy in the oil market, and cannot do this with North American production so high - that's it, that's the reason.They are losing billions now to make 10s of billions later.  Any assumption that this is some kind of acquiescence to the American political will is just ridiculous. 


*Edited to reflect Saudi hostility to the Alawite sect of Shia Islam, not a mediocre Canadian football team* &gt;not a mediocre Canadian football team

You son of a bitch... And for once soccer and US football fans won't argue over the use of "football" here. All Canadian football teams are mediocre so this isn't really a slight. No, they're all top eight! Can't do better than that... There's currently 9 teams What's stopping the U.S. And Canada from restarting high cost oil production once the Saudis raise the price back to over $80? Nothing. But there is a production lag. Small operations will shut down or go bankrupt. Big ones will cap their wells, and layoff workers. 

When it becomes profitable again, the oil will once again flow. But it will take time to remobilize. 

Get the workers, get the equipment out of mothballs, etc. Basically it resets large amount of North American energy. Not to mention that if the bottom drops out of the market bad enough to shut down a large percentage of US production, US energy companies will likely be a bit more conservative about committing the huge amounts of money required to get it going again when prices recover.  &gt; When it becomes profitable again, the oil will once again flow. But it will take time to remobilize.
&gt; 

Yeah but it won't take YEARS.  These companies sprung up relatively quickly in response to high gas prices.  And also, by getting the little guys out of the way it just gives the big guys like ConocoPhillips, Shell, Exxon, etc, more room to grab these old oil fields that were profitable at higher prices, but the companies working them went out of business.  These big guys are companies that have the infrastructure and capacity to withstand drop in oil prices because they are more profitable in other areas with diversified interests, and once the prices rise again, can quickly get infrastructure they already own out there pumping again.  

I'm kind of bewildered by the House of Saud right now, to be honest.  Their actions are really only temporarily forestalling gas exploration.  Say what you will about the U.S. government sucking off oil companies, but the fact that they cooperate with them so eagerly means that unlike a lot of other countries, U.S. gas exploration gets off the ground and responds to market changes very quickly.   &gt; Alouettes

I think you mean Alawite. Yikes! Auto-correct is killing me. Although, the Saudis might hate Montreal's Canadian football team too...

later edit: I keep looking at my mistake and I'm making a fool of myself laughing at my desk thinking about a Sheikh sitting in a decadent palace in Riyadh just covered in Saskatchewan Roughriders gear Alawite, gentille alawite?

 I was surprised to learn this childhood song is about a guy [happily mutilating a bird!](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Alouette_%28song%29#Lyrics) It's about cooking really and we all know that if you plan to eat the thing it's not mutilation, it's *cuisine*.    

I think Issei Sagawa covered that. Most interesting fact I've learned today.  Have a gold, sir. I'm pretty sure the bird is dead. As in you're plucking the feathers off it to cook it. Alawite je te plumerai.

    *grabs knife*

Je te plumerai la tte  (x2)  
Et la tte Et la tte  
Alawite Alawite  
A-a-a-a-allahu-akbar (x42) Alloette, gentille alloette, alloette, je te plumerai... Why can't us legally export crude oil ?  Further still, low oil prices slow the growth of alternative energy sources. Solar power and electric vehicles have made huge surges in growth recently. While oil doesn't really affect utilities/solar directly, there will be some impact. Tesla owes some of its success to a favorable oil market. However I would be curious to observe how Tesla does in the near future, whether this will impact them of if they have enough demand from consumers to negate the effect of fuel costs. I hope this doesn't hurt them.  