"What is freedom of expression? Without the freedom to offend, it ceases to exist."

Salman Rushdie


 "Journalism is printing what someone else does not want printed: everything else is public relations."- George Orwell "I wish I had something beautiful and insightful to say, but all I can think of is fuck these people."
/r/fer_d  /u/  He's so popular he has his own subreddit  Religion, a mediaeval form of unreason, when combined with modern weaponry becomes a real threat to our freedoms. This religious totalitarianism has caused a deadly mutation in the heart of Islam and we see the tragic consequences in Paris today. I stand with Charlie Hebdo, as we all must, to defend the art of satire, which has always been a force for liberty and against tyranny, dishonesty and stupidity. Respect for religion has become a code phrase meaning fear of religion. Religions, like all other ideas, deserve criticism, satire, and, yes, our fearless disrespect.  Salman Rushdie, Today

http://blogs.wsj.com/speakeasy/2015/01/07/salman-rushdie-i-stand-with-charlie-hebdo-as-we-all-must/

 &gt; our fearless disrespect

gotta love this guy, right to the heart of the point. As [Voltaire](http://en.wikiquote.org/wiki/Voltaire) pointed out, "To determine the true rulers of any society, all you must do is ask yourself this question: Who is it that I am not permitted to criticize?" &gt; "To determine the true rulers of any society, all you must do is ask yourself this question: Who is it that I am not permitted to criticize?"

Voltaire never actually said this, and in fact the wiki article you link to has it in the "Misattributed" section. It was actually said by Kevin Alfred Strom, the head of the National Vanguard, a Neo-Nazi group. Strom also spent 23 months in prison for possession of child-pornography.  The only freedom these useless brainwashed drones are interested in, is their own freedom to subjugate others under their ideology. What they so bravely refer to as freedom of religion. A contradiction in terms.

That is no freedom. It's about time democracy took a more firm stand against religious fundamentalism. Their religion is what made them commit this atrocity. This is a case where religion has caused a serious mental disturbance. And it's just another one in an endless line of similar instances.

I'd like a new form of religious freedom. Freedom from religion. As a frenchman, I am devastated. Really. I did not even read Charlie every week, just once in a while, but today I feel like this was a terrorist attack not only attack against free speech, but all of our european virtues.  
 As a Scotsman on holiday in France just now, I agree with you. Fraternit. Libert Crme brulee  I am devastated and I am American.  I agree that this was much more than a simple violent attack.

Know that Americans are grieving with you.   Stay strong. Saddest thing is, I heard Charlie might not get up from this. Basically everyone in management was slaughtered today.
This looks like it is the last straw for the West. There'll be hell to pay (but I doubt Hollande will be the one to take such action) Send in the Legion.  This.  Fucking this. USMC reporting for duty. You gents just say the word.  IDF GI at your service Can we just make the italians the awesome world conquerers again? That is exactly what it is.  Today, the Western World is French.  Vive la France!  We stood with you at Normandy and we stand with you now.   Today we are all Charlie Hebdo. And we can all draw. &gt; And we can all draw.

Sadly, some better than others. 


*Draw Mohammad Day* might just need to be extended to *Draw Mohammad Month*.

 Norway stands with you. As do the Swedes. everyone in the civilised world agrees with you. **solidarit** America is with you We stand with you guys. Stay strong, your neighbour Belgium As an American, I stand with you.   Irishman standing with you. As an Irishman who has lived, loved and laughed in France, and who believes that satire is more dangerous than a goon with a kalashnikov...

Is mise Charlie. Feeling with you, would be the same for Germany if someone destroyed Titanic like that. I wish I had something beautiful and insightful to say, but all I can think is fuck these people. So is this going to create something like a Streisand Effect for their cartoons? I'd hope that in encourages other media sources to make more cartoons but we all know that's not going to happen. Western governments will just try to appease the islams more.  No it won't. No one was afraid that Streisand was going to kill them. Not until she went all "Mecha" anyways...


Someone may need to call Robert Smith. I say we need another draw Mohammed day and post them to every internet outlet.  Everyday should be draw mohammaed day. Flood the internet with drawings of him so the bastards cant live a day without seeing one. I would donate to a kickstarter that proposed to leaflet-drop caricatures of Muhammad in Muslim-majority parts of the world. The terrorist attack was made by IS supporters, as far as I've understood. IS is not supported by the majority of the muslims. As far as I've read, the IS eagerly kills muslims that the IS thinks don't hold the "correct" beliefs.

Your leaflets wouldn't reach the terrorists or their supporters, but rather other unrelated people that I think already dislike the IS. Post this on the front page:

http://www.jesusandmo.net/ [Even more relevant.](http://www.jesusandmo.net/strips/2014-12-17.png) I live in Dubai. That page is blocked for me... *sigh* Someone tried to convince me to move there 10 years ago because it is a modern world of amazement.  So glad I told them to fuck off. I mean it's got it's highs and lows, but once I leave there will **definitely** be things I miss about the city. However, I need something fresh hence why I'm trying to leave this summer. Is this blocked for you?

https://i.imgur.com/xw39u.jpg

warning, may get you beheaded. Cheers haha, I'll erm... Keep an eye on the window :P Plan B, post [this image](https://i.imgur.com/xw39u.jpg) everywhere so NSFW Be prepared for the lable "islamaphobe" to be heavily applied to anyone who suggests the religion that encourages this savagery is a bad idea. And "racist". As if islam suddenly is a race... People _are_ profiled at airports because they look Arabic/Persian based mostly on terrorism from radical Muslims from that region. I agree that disliking "Muslims" isn't racist, but people do racially profile based on who they think looks "Muslim."  The first point that would destroy that would be the majority of Muslims live in Indonesia, while the crazy fucktards have roots in the middle east.  Actually Indonesia only has 12.7% of the World's Muslim population.  It has the most Muslims when it comes to number of adherents, but not close to the world majority.

For the curious, Pakistan is number two, followed by India, and then Bangladesh. Indonesia is not exactly a safe place for non-Muslim minorities. Churches are burned and their occupants murdered, and occasionally there are religiously motivated lynchings. When East Timor tried to become independant, Indonesians hacked people up with machetes.  Not to mention Papuan children being taken from their homes and being forced to go to boarding schools where they are only taught the Koran to religiously indoctrinate them. So by changing your religion you change your race? How about all the former Muslims, now apostates? Do they become a new race also? This is in fact what people who claim Islam is race are effectively saying. 

 When instances like this are common, "phobia" is a pretty reasonable response.  you are on the right track but a phobia means an irrational fear. Whereas if you live in certain places, fear of Islam is clearly not irrational I'm afraid of bears, spiders, and disease.  How is being afraid of something that has the ability and probable intention to kill you anything other than a rational response to an extraordinary circumstance?  Arguably I'm about equally likely to be killed by a bear, spider, Ebola or a terrorist.  


[EDIT] Perhaps I was unclear with my statement but I didn't say that bears, spiders or disease have intent at all.  In fact what I said is that intent to kill is more fearsome than some other, less likely vectors for death.  I don't know why that was unclear but clearly it was. You're being irrational. Ursophobe!  
(no, seriously, your chances of being killed by a bear are minute) Yeah, right. Guys, found the bear! Dammit, human. You just cost me my lunch.  
  
... hmm, maybe *you*'d make a better lunch! "Minute" as in the maximum amount of time you could survive during the encounter, right? The correct response is not to care. Simple. You think I'm a bigoted \*phobe? That's cute. I don't care. I will not be silenced, I will not grant those ignorant pricks the context by accepting their oppression narrative. If opposing the islamisation of Europe is racist and oppressive, than racism and oppression are not inherently bad things, so congratulations, hyperleftists, for devaluing those words. I can't way to see Ben Affleck to start spewing that bullshit. Bill Maher/Sam Harris' point made again... "The way you use facts and reasoning to undercut my opinions is just *gross*!" /r/islam is already whining about how mean the people on /r/worldnews are &gt; /r/islam

So, I notice you can't up/downvote comments over there (I'm assuming only if you're subscribed does this become an option) ... very interesting, but not surprising. It's just CSS trickery. Go to your preferences and disable custom css for subreddits, or use the keyboard shortcut for up/downvote (a/z iirc). Everybody mentions the a/z shortcut, but I've never figured it out.  Where do I first need to click before typing "a" or "z" will toggle the voting? Upvoted you with my A key. Christopher Hitchens had it right.   He sure did. He would be having a field day, taking every and any interview on any media possible, denouncing these cowards. *Sigh* He was truly an inspiration. Wish he would have lived longer, but I guess life without things you enjoy (in his case including smoking and drinking) isn't very worth living. I am pretty sure if, immediately following his diagnosis, a deal had been offered to him, he would have accepted:

-No more booze

-No more cigarettes

-The cancer goes away. You get to see your kids keep growing up.

I'm sure his intellectual pursuits, his books, the talks he gave... debates... writing. I am certain all that meant far more to him than booze and smokes. Anyway, what's done is done. I think it's right to criticize Islam for being particularly radical because it's definitely uniquely radical among any large group of people in the world.  Think of any large group of people, Free Masons, soccer hooligans, Russian political thugs, etc, where if you made a cartoon about any of them there's a rock solid guarantee someone will have to die for it.  [Molly Norris](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Everybody_Draw_Mohammed_Day), who drew a cartoon for a Seattle newspaper had to change her name and go into hiding just for suggesting the **idea** of drawing a cartoon of the prophet (she never actually drew a cartoon of the prophet).  But her life is in genuine danger because of it.  And people keep saying "It's just an insignificant minority" An insignificant minority is more than enough to kill every single person who ever pissed off Islam.  Telling me it's an insignificant minority does not make me feel any better at all.  It tells me there will always be a constant supply of deadly radicals because all it takes is an insignificant minority to do as much damage as they have. 
 &gt; Free Masons

Lol, what the hell are you talking about? Freemasonry is pretty much just a charitable organization these days. I threw that in for shits'n giggles because I know they have a sense of humor.   You're going to get like 33 cryptic letters now man. ...and an invitation to be a Mason. Or so the Freemasons would have you believe! Martyrs to freedom.  Let's all draw ridiculous pictures of Mohammed and put them everywhere. Everywhere.
Also on edit, while we're at it how about Jesus, Moses and Mohammed in a threesome. See who laughs.  
On edit, fixed spelling of ridiculous. Il faut dfendre la puret de la langue, bien sr!  Aprs cela, la libert. For printing purposes:

http://i.imgur.com/XhlHYr9.jpg

(NSFW) Here you go. Here is my entry:
http://i.imgur.com/lgJCJzk.jpg?1 Twelve people are now dead because they made fun of a genocidal pedophile. The correct response is to carry on their torch.

Thus I wish to present to you with no further ado, [the prophet Muhammed.](http://i.imgur.com/KiQ1N6b.jpg) [NSFW]

Also, please join us over at /r/muhammedgonewild and PM me if you want to help me mod the place. Can we get a fucking NSFW? haha second one was the bomb :P Dear Islamist extremists,

I'd like to extend to you a heartfelt apology.  I'm sorry that your "religion" is so weak as to not be able to stand up to ridicule.

All religions are, in my view, silly, but at least all the others have the strength and backbone to hold up to doodles that mock them.  Yours, then, must be the punier, weaker, less-capable of all the religions.

That is, if Islam and all the other religions were naked in the gym shower, yours must have the smallest penis.  Why else would you be so sensitive and so quick to attack? It must be shame; you're ashamed of your tiny-penis religion, with all its flaws (more than the others) and its backwards, third-century sensibilities.  

I'm sorry you're going through that, truly.  But instead of killing people, why not just do what everyone else with a tiny penis does and buy an over-sized pick-up truck?

 So we atheists have humongous penises? Fuck Muhammed.

That's about all I have to say on the matter. Dude! Tag your post NSFI. Not Safe for Infidels?! I don't think your words are acceptable. What you should have said is "Fuck Muhammad with a giant dildo up the ass." No one will get confused that way. The notion that people with "deeply held religious beliefs" should be respected and protected, is in need of some serious revision.  Medieval superstitions are obviously incompatible with civilized human society, and the people who stubbornly adhere to them should be treated the same as anyone with a mental disorder.

Islam, Christianity, Orthodox Judeism...ALL need to be eliminated from this planet. Thanks for comparing my bipolar disorder to religious idiots. Hey, I didn't choose this, man. What would it be like if, instead of trying to treat/cure bipolarism, and other disorders, society put them in a protected category, and required all politicians to be proudly bipolar in order to be electable? Ooh, you mean like mutants or something? Yeah, that'd be a terrible, horrible, awful idea mate. But we do call it bipolar *disorder* which is the point.  People are actually trying to figure out ways to help fix your brain chemistry and not acting like it's a virtue to be protected and nurtured. No doubt. I'm just saying- that's the fundamental difference, it's not chosen. Religion is *willful* ignorance. Good point.  What makes you think most people's religion is chosen? It's not. The brain isn't fully matured when you are five or ten or fifteen or even TWENTY years old. The magic number is about 25. Parents making their kids go to church is no choice. It's literal brainwashing. Totally agreed Curved swords HE must be from Hammerfell! and you thought they were muslims! They just want to get the traitorous princess back! those radical redguards, always ruining skyrim. Thanks for the upvotes to the front page (mine, at least). If you're so inclined, it would be a great tribute to flood the net with Charlie Hebdo's content. It's not just about religion/atheism.

EDIT: Just to clarify, the cartoon references French writer Voltaire's quotation, "I do not agree with what you have to say, but I'll defend to the death your right to say it."  Just FYI the quotation was *about* Voltaire, not by him.

http://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Evelyn_Beatrice_Hall I really fucking hate Islam.  We ex-Muslims have been warning the west since the beginning. Instead they chose to ignore and call us a bigot. Islamic terrorist attacks will continue being plotted in the west until they do something about and not just that bs deradicalization program they are trying out. this is nonsense.

Muslims must sort this shit out for themselves. 

The bible calls for rape, slavery and putting people to death for all kinds of silly reasons. Thankfully these commandments are largely ignored.

Muslims must overwhelmingly come to the same realization: **These books are not to be taken literally, and they must call out those that do and fully repudiate them** This is probably the best solution offered. It's not instantly gratifying, nor is it sexy. It's not draw Mohammed month, but it is what needs to happen. 

Moderate Muslims need to stop deferring and passing the buck. This is what your religion looks like in the *literal* sense. Christianity had growing pains. The barbaric crusades for example. 

Instead this movement has bombs and AKs. Muslims must sort this out. And quickly.  Please share these cartoons. Make sure this tragedy has the exact opposite effect that the terrorists intended.  I read a lot Charlie Hebdo as a teenager. I started to care about politics at the same time. As a child, I stole from time to time a book made by the cartoonist Cabu, as it was really too offensive for my age.
Today Cabu died. Today Charb, the one leading the Charlie Hebdo journey died. 
Today too much people died. Too much people that cared. Too much people that I loved.
Thank you world for being so sensitive about it. In France we cry a lot today.
But they will never win. Call me whatever you want, but radical Islam must be wiped from the earth. They've forced our hand. How long can civilized society stand idly by while radical Islamists are murdering innocent people, and subjugating and raping women?  How about education? (without biblical fear mongering). It's not about education, it's about monoculturalism. A strong hegemonic social structure of liberty and freedom.

When in Rome, you do as the Romans do. If you're in Europe, you accept that people say things you might not like, and live differently to how you think they should live. Don't like it? Fuck off. If you want to live in a Muslim country where you aren't allowed to do those things there are dozens to choose from.

Liberal western culture does not permit ignorance and hatred. It certainly doesn't permit shooting people because of cartoons. Christ.

That's all that has to change. Stop accepting it. Stop giving in to their threats and beliefs. I don't care if they won't sit next to women on a plane, that's their fucking problem. They have every right to be offended, but they have no right to tell other people they can't do things. To be honest, I cried, and I am still crying. Not because of the deaths of these magnificent people, but because this is and will be the society we live in. For the last 30 years we West Europeans have been free of religion. We parted with radical Christianity and we all got smarter and stronger and braver because of it. And now, on this day, with this attack on freedom of speech and press, the core element of our society, another party yells 100 times as hard " Here we are motherfuckers, a religion that is even more retarded" 


and the problem is that if you say anything about it, you are considered an racist... racist my beautiful European, beer and waffles loving, atheist ASS
 ['*A Star is born*!', mohamed Cartoon (good quality)](http://imgur.com/Kiyp6nH). 

The Muslims who've been allowed into secular Europe are again murdering people (apparently over cartoons again).

They simply don't seem to get it. In Europe, and in France especially, we reserve the right to make fun of the imaginary friends/deities of various religions, cults or what have you. It's a freedom we consider very important. And no matter what you do, it will stand. 

One has to wonder why Islamic imbeciles, their heads filled with the moronic crap they brought from some medieval hell-hole they ran away from, **insist** to come and live in civilised countries ... where the freedom of the press is respected (and this includes satire).

If Islamic morons don't like religious satire, they need to get the fuck out of Europe and to crawl back into Mohamed's butthole, Islam, the one  they crawled out of to then come over to live in Europe (*not* Islam) ... but carrying all that Islamic stench along with them.

Anyway, these Islamics are starting to really get serious with the murdering.

And we ... **still** play nice.

I just don't know.
 http://i.imgur.com/15UFq11.png They wanted to put France on its knees, they only succeeded in making it stand Time for posting tweets again about how this is just a minority, putting Islam in a bad light. 

And that we should all be holding hands and support moderate Islam and build some more mosques to show how welcome they still are in Europe.


That's the playbook, right?


**UPDATE:** President Hollande has already said that we should all "unite". See. That was quick.


**EDIT:** Yeah go and down vote me, but you won't stop me from saying this:

To all right-wings, centers and left-wings, to all republicans and democrats, to all moderates and extremists. Let us unite. Let us unite against Islam and get rid of this culturaphobe religion so we can **finally** create the **peaceful multicultural society** that we originally wanted.

Islam does not like other cultures. Why. Is. That. So. Hard. To. Understand. 

Imagine a culture that doesn't accept any other culture. Does such a culture exist? YES. And it has a name: Islam. Get your fucking idiotic head out of the sand.


**EDIT 2:** https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EYAcLudBbhg - Either this video shows what moderate Muslims in Europe are really thinking. Or the people at this conference managed to get all the extremists in 1 building. Thx @ [anonymous] for linking the video. What I wish would happen is less radical Muslims would speak out against these people. I understand they are afraid but come on, fight for what is right.  This, times one hundred. I think they're more afraid of speaking out against extremists than most westerners. The reason they don't speak out is because, although they are against the violence, their opinion stays the same as those of the extremists:

"Well, they shouldn't have mocked the Prophet in the first place..."

That's why moderate Muslims are not speaking out. They might not just fear the extremists, but they might also fear repercussions from Allah himself for taking it up for the people who mocked the prophet. "Cause hey, those people who are now dead, they DID mock the Prophet!"... which might be perceived as something worse than killing a person, even for a *moderate* Muslim. [They do speak out, we just aren't listening](http://www.washingtonpost.com/posteverything/wp/2015/01/02/why-dont-more-moderate-muslims-denounce-extremism/?hpid=z10) Bit hard to hear these so called Muslim Leaders 'decry' or 'condemn' the actions of these extremists when thousands of Muslim's take to the streets in those very countries to cheer the slaughters on video and TV. It's often like that indeed.

In Belgium, that is exactly what happened. The first to complain about "Sharia4belgium" were the muslim community. 

They got ignored of course.  &gt; less radical Muslims


That's an oxymoron. Islam is radical by nature, just as Christianity is radical except Islam lack the few elements Christianity has to somewhat moderate it.


Render to Caesar what is Caesars.


My kingdom is not of this world.


Those passages limit the scope of Christianity and make secular ruling the default.


AFAIK Islam is exactly opposite, and demands Islamic law or to otherwise overthrow the rulers to instate it as soon as possible without facing certain defeat.


Stoning is still more or less acceptable in Muslim countries and communities. Discrimination is basically required based on religion and gender and sexuality.


An alarming number of Muslims still favor the death penalty for apostasy.


Your average "moderate" Muslim is not moderate at all, even most progressive Muslims like those favoring democracy are rarely moderate on the other key issues.


They are only moderate from a point of outright evil insanity. Uh... this literally is happening right now, and happens all the time. Obviously you don't have many people in your life who follow islam. Every muslim I know is openly and publicly condemning these acts. Are they marching in the streets by the millions, are they organizing anti-radical groups, are they actively fighting ISIS and the Taliban, are they embracing secular liberal democracy, are they actually DOING anything other than lamely comdemning these attacks again and again? No they're not. Until "moderate" islam starts to sctually get off its collective ass and takes action against their enemy within, I'm calling bullshit on the idea that islamic radicalism is just a tiny subset of islamic society as a whole Condemning these actions is easy.  Condemning the Islamic scriptures and the historical acts of Mohammad that provide the justification for such actions is another story.
 Condemning, yes. Actively seeking out and turning in these people? No. Working against the implementation of Sharia law? No. Talking about how the Burqa, Hijab and Niqab are part of systematic opression of women and trying to have it removed? No. Working towards harsher laws to punish child marriage, forced marriage and female genital mutilation? No. 

Moderate muslims are like the Men's Rights activists after that recent shooting. They're all claiming "while we understand their motives, we don't condone violence." 

Saying "this is bad" is useless. It does nothing. People need to understand their own community and belief system are to blame for this action, and need to clean it out from the bottom up. Go to the police and report the radical factions in mosques. Have the entire community march AGAINST calls for Sharia law. Call for bans on Burqas and FGM, and fundraise for those causes.  Condemnation means nothing to me. Continuing to practice Islam in the face of innumerable atrocities (and don't give me bullshit about how terrorism is not in the Qur'an, it explicitly calls for terrorism) is implicit agreement with the perpetrators. Moderate Islam is a myth: Muslims who claim not to beat their wives, kill infidels, or want to impose Sharia law are directly violating the Qur'an.  It just doesn't seem loud or universal enough. I hear it here and there. It's almost like you filter your news source to match your biases. It would be interesting to see how our perception of Islam were to change if the media started posting/airing the opinions of dissenting mosques. At least in the US, I suspect there's far more than a few that find acts of terrorism disgusting and counter to what the Quran teaches.  But that doesn't matter controversial news, and controversy is what makes news interesting and brings viewers.  Trust me, it's really out there. It just doesn't always fit the narrative certain media outlets are trying to portray, so it doesn't always get reported on. Exactly. If it's not on message, it's not in the news. &gt; Time for posting tweets again about how this is just a minority, putting Islam in a bad light.

Can you edit your post to include [this video](http://youtu.be/Ry3NzkAOo3s) as the retort to that? (If you agree, of course) I've had a similar confrontation occurring inside of me for some time, but what you suggest is not the answer.

Is there a far greater trend towards intolerance and violence in Islam than there is in any other culture? Yes.

Are Muslim countries by and large more misogynist, more dangerous, crueler and more repressive? Yes.

Is the greater portion of modern terrorist activity attributable to Islam? Yes.

But I have Muslim neighbors in my apartment building. My boss is Muslim. I'm sure every day you encounter Muslims who don't give a flying fuck if some cartoonist draws Mohammed blowing Bill Clinton, or at the very worst are bothered about it, but quietly. In the same way that I am bothered, but quietly, when somebody takes out a billboard saying "How can you be GOOD without GOD?". 

I don't want *them* dead. And I don't want *them* gone. Because in the places I'd be sending them back to, there's no such thing as quiet indignation.  You are misinterpreting. He says that we should unite against Islam, not Muslims. He never suggested killing anyone, just doing away with a culture of certain ideas. 

For example, when the USSR fell, the population of Russians didn't die. They changed. Mmm. I see how you might be right. I think a lot of the post still applies, but the conclusion at the end does not really address /u/Nooku's suggestion.

That said - the USSR lasted about 7 decades. Islam has so far lasted 150. Forgive me for thinking it'll be hella hard to get them to give it up. And I really wouldn't want them to - I'd rather just the religion itself somehow gains the ability to not be the religion of zealots and patriarchs. In the same way that Christianity was able to abandon its fixation on slavery, and in the same way that it is now coming to terms with homosexuality (slowly).

People forget, but Islam was also the religion of the golden age of Baghdad. So it is completely *possible* for it to be a religion of peace and learning. It just isn't really that right now. A mere problem of interpretations changing due to circumstances. Christianity managed to abandon archaic and extremist practices as western societies began to accept and promote free thinking and knowledge, things that can be very hard to come by in Islamic regions. That is the only way Islam can change. I agree completely! And so for me, the question of Islam's violence revolves around the political stability and prosperity of the Middle East, and peaceful exposure to progressive values without unnecessary intervention.

ETA: If that includes showing them what free speech is like by demonstrating it fearlessly, so be it. We live how we want to live - they learn to understand it. This thread has been linked to from elsewhere on reddit.


 - [/r/ShitRedditSays] [&amp;quot;Islam does not like other cultures. Why. Is. That. So. Hard. To. Understand. Imagine a culture that doesn&amp;#x27;t accept any other culture. Does such a culture exist? YES. And it has a name: Islam. Get your fucking idiotic head out of the sand.&amp;quot; \[+264\]](http://np.reddit.com/r/ShitRedditSays/comments/2rn0np/islam_does_not_like_other_cultures_why_is_that_so/)


 - [/r/badatheism] [ISLAM HATES OTHER CULTURES... which is why all Muslims are radicals?](http://np.reddit.com/r/badatheism/comments/2rnnd6/islam_hates_other_cultures_which_is_why_all/)

*^If ^you ^follow ^any ^of ^the ^above ^links, ^respect ^the ^rules ^of ^reddit ^and ^don't ^vote ^or ^comment. ^Questions? ^Abuse? [^Message ^me ^here.](http://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2Fmeta_bot_mailbag)*

 The problem with your idea is that you cannot get rid of Islam. More than a billion people, you know?

And it is true that only a minority of them are radicals. Most just want to watch their soap operas (if they got TVs) and have their kids do better than them. There are many different kinds of Islam out there, and not all muslim majority cultures are xenophobic. That said, I agree that Islam is much more of a problem at this time (21st century) than any other major religion. The problem I have, is that most people proclaiming (the truth) about misguided, evil Islam ... follow this up by suggesting draconian policies that will not help at all, and will probably making the problem worse.

I do not see how you are going to get any solution at all when you are just renouncing them and boldy want to forge a coalition *against* *them*.

If you want my opinion (which you probably don't, but hey...), treat individual crimes as a criminal matter without getting all fearful about it. Terrorism is not a big threat in western countries (it'll rank very low in terms of risk of death behind hundreds of other causes, like falling from ladders).  
Don't ever concede ground to terrorists either. So continue to publish whatever cartoons you want. Don't heighten security measures because of terrorism. We are free countries, let's display our values by not throwing freedom under the bus of security.  
Try to cut off funding for radical organisations. That means taking a stand against rich Saudis funding Wahabi causes.  
Try not to 'create' more stupid idiots willing to die 'for Islam' (in truth, for somebody dangling scapegoats for their own misery in front of them), by bombing the random shit out of Paqistan, Jemen, etc.
 The whole "radical/moderate" dichotomy is a complete fabrication.  "Moderate" Muslims in Pakistan would literally want you to die for blasphemy or for being gay.  People hear "moderate" Islam and equate it with, say, "moderate" (i.e. essentially non-practicing) Christianity.  They are light-years apart. in Egypt 90% or more (I don't remember the exact number) of citizens think the punishment for apostasy should be death. 

'moderate' muslims in the western mould are a minority on the global scale. 

I have plenty of muslim friends. they are not representative of the world at large.  True, but when do you hear about Radical Jews killing people for talking smack about Moses? 

When you do hear about Hindu's beheading people for saying Vishnu is a fat slob of a god?

Yes I am sure the above has happened, but the amount of times it has happened recently compared to Muslims showcases their hatred for things that are different and that they don't like.

You cannot tell me with honesty and a straight face that Great Briton would be a worse off place if they deported all of the radical Muslims who are trying to get sharia law implemented as actual law...because you know that is REALLY tolerant of them right? Dude, as a Hindu I am deeply offended! Vishu is a very fit God. Its Ganesha who is the obese one. Humph!

[Vishnu] (http://www.astrogems.com/wallpapers/vishnu/vishnu_40.jpg)

[Ganesh] (http://oriyapeople.com/wp-content/uploads/2014/08/ganesh-4.jpg) Vishnu isn't fit. He's skinnyfat. I bet he doesn't even lift I acknowledge the problem that at this moment in time (21st century) Islam is the most problematic religion (of any decent size).

I just have made the experience that the majority of people who make this (truthful) claim the loudest, follow it up with nonsensical policy-suggestions that vary between counter-productive, naive or simply unrealisable.

Much of the hatred and resentment that rides the Islamic wave has little to do with their actual beliefs (which they put aside when it suits them, see alcohol, etc.). It mostly stems from a feeling of being sidelined and second- third class citizens. That puts a lot of people in just the right position to be preached to and given scapegoats.

Instead of championing education (which truly is the best cure against religion in general), people champion draconian measures. If you think that deporting a few hundred (or thousand) muslims isn't going to put up the back of at least that many of them staying behind... What would you have gained? You'd just make the situation worse.

re: sharia courts... Simply make laws that outlaw binding arbitration by sharia courts (and jewish courts, while we are at it). Theoretically, both parties have to agree to be tried, but it is obviously mostly employed for matrimonial issues, where pressure can be put on one side to agree to such procedings. I am opposed to arbitration in general and the increasing negotiable flight from public courts of law. actually its not a radical minority if 60% of them support the sharia. Islam is a cancer. We would not go around and talk about "moderate national socialism" They worship a child raping murderer for fucks sake. Those people are under the influence of a toxic mindset, and our aim should be to erase Islam from this world. Do you think this would have happened if those people were atheists or any religion that is not completely fucked up? No. I agree that converting more muslims to atheism would be a good thing.

I just find it hard to believe that our conventional play-book (dropping bombs, messing with their countries, supporting Israeli settler politics even when they are obviously unethical ....) will do anything to help. The more we put 'them' in the corner of 'you are evil' the more you'll put their backs up and drive more muslims into the arms of scrupluous preachers and militants.

The only way I see is to try to embrace the masses in majority-muslim countries with improving material wealth and (very important) more education. Funding education should be the no. 1 priority, as you'll get more scepticism for free. While doing that, you should also try your best to undermine their hypocritical leaders (though that is a difficult task).

If the goal is to push Islam from a major driving factor in their lives to some kind of Islam-in name only- (only going to Mosque during Ramadahn), mostly concerned with their favorite tv-series kind of thing (as Christianity is in Europe, for example); the worst you could do is accuse them all of being terrorists in waiting and dropping bombs on their weddings, then softly apologizing for collateral damage (if). I totally agree. Islam is 100% a cancer on humanity that is a billion strong. Liberal, moderate or radical it doesn't matter. Islam is incompatible with modern civilization and it should be extinguished.  Erasing Islam from this world is a very ambitious--probably unachievable--goal. Stopping immigration from Muslim countries completely would be far easier. When Pegida first sparked up I was so happy, turns out those are all more or less mentally handicapped Nazis. People still dont understand that you can be pro immigration and pro freedom and still anti islam. Liberals (and I consider myself a liberal) don't understand how destructive it is when incidents of terrorism are dismissed as purely an action of extremists.  They think they're helping with all the hand holding, they're not, in fact they're doing the exact opposite.  Terrorism like this exists because the MODERATE Muslim world is understanding of it.  If the Muslim world didn't consistently take the approach of "I wouldn't have committed this act of terrorism myself... but those people shouldn't have drawn Mohammed!" this wouldn't happen.  

It's that lack of total and complete denunciation of terrorist acts from Muslims that allow terrorism like this to happen.  And it's the "oh it's just the minority" sentiment from liberals in Europe that stifles the social pressure necessary to fix it. Agreed. Get rid of Christianity while you're at it.  Be careful, you might provoke radical Christians to murder critics of Jesus on this subreddit.   All Abrahamic religions have similar extremists. They're all horrific, and deserve the same extermination from society. "Those who can make you believe absurdities can make you commit atrocities."

I remember watching a 'peace conference' on this sub a few days ago, hosted by people who represented 'moderate' Muslims in Sweden. I was saddened to observe the host conducting a poll with the audience, asking how many of them advocated stoning people to death, misogyny and sexism. Around 90% of the audience raised their hands in support and a substantial effort was made to depict these views as the orthodoxy of that faith. I don't doubt that there was more than a modicum of truth in that particular statement. 

It may be a problem that many people think Islam is an enlightened religion and that a few outspoken firebrands represent the minority. More than once I have found this not to be a true depiction. 'Extremists' are often simply preaching scripture and representing the behaviour and values of the wider Muslim community that is practiced everyday.  I've never understood what "get rid of Islam" means.  Do we hunt them down one by one?  Do we make them wear a star and crescent wherever they go?  You see where I'm going here.  I don't know what the solution is.  But I also do not think its realistic to say "get rid of Islam". Sick fucks at /r/Islam are falling all over themselves to talk about how Mohammed never killed people for insulting him (complete horseshit) or how "Muslim wars were all defensive" and "these guys aren't *really* Muslim," then getting *angry* because people are calling them out on their shit.

I hope at least some people take note here: yes, Christianity does some stupid, terrible things to people over whom it has power.  Yes, the Hindu caste system is a human rights travesty.  Islam is not like those religions that can generally integrate.  **ISLAM IS NOT COMPATIBLE WITH CIVILIZED SOCIETY, FULL STOP.**  Muslims point to Malaysia and Indonesia like they're some kind of argument against this; Indonesia with its virginity testing for civil servants and Malaysia where they criminalize non-Muslims using the word Allah to refer to god.

Enough is fucking **ENOUGH.**  Civilization is at war with Islam, no matter how much our coward leaders want to sing kumbayah and hold hands while maniacs screaming about Allah slaughter writers and police in the streets.

Draw a picture of Mohammed.  **FUCKING DO IT.**  Put it up in your town.  Put it up on your campus.  Write letters to the editor insulting Mohammed.  Free speech is not fucking optional; this attack wasn't on a magazine, it was on our deepest-rooted freedoms.  Our fucking government doesn't care, and half the country's either too afraid or too ignorant to vocally oppose the spread of Islam.  Make your voice heard, before you lose the chance! Yep, Organised religions based on Medieval beliefs are all INCOMPATIBLE with modern CIVILISED society! Let's just get rid of fucking religion all together. Anything can be justified in the name of a god, because no one ever gets any actual guidance from said god. Instead, people just bend the interpretation of ancient texts to their own desires.  Religion is like comfort blanket for some people, let them have it as long they don't go around killing people. They still use it to vote against things that would progress society. Nah, it's time for people to grow the fuck up. Too bad you can't wean society from religion like a blanket. You have to kill the head vampire and the rest will go down like a chain reaction. Look, there is absolutely NO SUCH THING as "Radical Islam"

You are either Islamic, and follow the rule of the Holy Koran, or you are not Islamic.  The problem is no one can precisely tell which is which because the book is impossible to follow because it's contradiction-filled ancient history nonsense.

More to the point, using the term "radical islam" falsely implies those with extremely dangerous, barbaric or troublesome views are but a fringe, and that every other version and interpretation of islam is sunshine, kumbaya, rainbows and unicorns. I've only read the Koran twice, both translations to English, but praise Allah is at the end of almost every sentence or line. 

It is a book filled with stoning, beheading and rapes in the name of God... For all the shit we give Christians, Islam as a whole is based in violence  If the "no redical" muslims fail to stop the ones killing in the name of islam, only one thing will happen. The hate to Islam will continue to grow throughout the western world, reaching a point where it's no longer safe to be muslim. The only ones who can prevent it, is the muslims. And there need to be done more than just condemning it. If the holocaust targeted Muslims instead of the Jews. Would the nazis be viewed as heros or would they still appear as evil?   **FUCK ISLAM**

Europe better get its head out of its ass. Muhammad's mom's titties: ( . Y . ) So true! 

And now these morons will come and justify that the people who killed them weren't muslims or aren't following islam. /r/MuhammadComics I posted one but moderators are too PC to publish.

This is better: /r/muhammedgonewild I don't like the words "martyrs" and "heros" being used in here. it's not that I don't think they were doing the right thing and that what happened is not a terrible tragedy. it is and it makes me sad. 

but seriously calling someone heros or martyrs is what raised this problems. they are just people who excercised their right of free speech and some other terribly brainwashed fucked up people killed them. let's not get into that martyr calling business. terrorists need to be called terrorists and need to be caught, brought to trial and sentenced, victims of violence needs to be called victims of violence, they need to be mourned. and freedom of speech of course needs to be maintained.

and we need to get the public word out, that once again Allah himself showed up on Earth, in Paris today, to prove how peaceful a religion Islam is.  I'm from Italy and i'm devastated too.
This is not just an attack against charlie,this is against all of us,against our fredoom,they're  trying to make us weak and scared,but instead we should shout out loud.
Violence,people who thinks that just their ideas are right,ignorance,you're not going to win.
"If we burn,you burn with us" Sending our support from Hungary as well. Nobody should die because of freedom of speech, no matter who may be offended french here. i thought world will only see a mass shooting in france and won't see the real point. i'm happy i was wrong. 
They asked people their name before killing them, they really wanted to kill the good guys, those who are behind this kind of freedom we are so proud of. Today was our 9-11, today they killed our Trey Parker and Matt Stone.
 I didn't need this to hate ISIS. i hope we will nuke their ass I'd like it if we could stop qualifying these statements with the "radical islam" moniker. It's just Islam. It's crazy as fuck in almost all it's iterations. Islam by itself is radical. 

It's a redundancy, and I think we should stop forgiving the overall dogma for being batshit insane. http://i.imgur.com/45fYF3a.gif &gt;yvette nicole brown Islam, the worlds best religion

That makes its followers go to your country and execute you on the public streets! After leaving their country because of the shitfest that their culture created. This was once an area that was the beacon of science, math and medicine at one point and saved many of the early works of the Romam and Greeks. [deleted] Not that we wouldn't be fighting the out group if religion didn't exist but religion, en toto, is a bane on humanity.  Considering the percentage of humanity that it infects, religion should be the first virus that we try and eradicate.......through education, of course. 

Libert, galit, fraternit.  Its 3AM here in Taiwan and Im too depressed to go to sleep.

Ive been thinking that there should be a *Charlie Hebdo Prize* which awards the brave people around the world who risk their lives to defend freedom of expression, and possibly other human rights. I imagine most of the awards will go to people in Islamic countries with blasphemy laws in action.

The medals would have *L'amour. plus fort que la haine* engraved on them.
 I would've loved to have heard what Hitchens would have had to say about all of this
http://i.imgur.com/VYz2QjQ.jpg In protest, there should be cartoons of Mohammed published, and distributed everywhere. Screw radical Islam, if you can't take a joke hit the road, and the GTFO. Religion of peace We should draw a picture of Muhammed on the moon with a giant frickin laser.  Let those assholes try and blow up the moon The solution is at hand, but like anything that evolves, it takes time.  The more knowledge that gets spread, the more accepting people become of science, the more doubtful they become of fiction.  It'll just take a few more centuries.  Bill Maher and Sam Harris should beef up their security. Also Dawkins. I forget where but I seem to remember reading that Harris actually takes his security relatively seriously but tries to avoid making a show of it to not taunt those who would  do him harm.
 Religious fundamentalism needs to be classified as a psychological disorder so people who exhibit signs of it can be forcibly committed to psychiatric institutions for the sake of public health and safety. Not that I completely disagree with you, but I'm pretty sure quite a few religious figures have tried to get the same done for atheists.. So the the very few remaining far left Frenchmen willing to *not* suck Muhammed's dick were executed for it.  

RIP rare &amp; brave Frenchmen.  You deserved so much better.   [This is moderate islam](http://i.imgur.com/ZaCmFq7.png) Knowing that a second later he shoots him is unnerving. That poor guy. I think the cop may have survived, actually. I re-watched the video a couple times after seeing some other comments, and it looks like the bullet impacts the pavement just to the right of the cop's head. The blast at close range probably knocked him out, but I don't think that the bullet actually hit him - otherwise there should have been blood and spatter just to the right when the shot was fired, but there's nothing but a puff of dust.

The guy doing the executing didn't stop and line up the shot, he did it on the run, which gives you a much greater chance of missing. This could be a really lucky cop, and I'm hoping that's the case. I wish you were right, but thousands of media reports here (I'm French) suggest otherwise. I'm trying to look for sources that confirm the fate of this particular officer and I'm coming up blank - things are confused right now.  One thing I found is that they're saying two police are dead, and I think one was the police bodyguard assigned to one of the editors of Charlie Hebdo, and the other was the unfortunate driver of this vehicle:  http://i.imgur.com/3vRFQMZ.jpg

 Ahmed, 42-year-old father
http://www.lefigaro.fr/actualite-france/2015/01/07/01016-20150107ARTFIG00293-l-un-des-deux-policiers-tues-etait-pere-d-une-fillette-d-un-an.php Damn.  Well, thanks, for finding it and correcting me.  Such a shame.  I hope they catch the perpetrators soon. I am pretty sure what you see is it hitting the ground after transiting his skull.  I really doubt they would not notice they missed at that range. 

NSFW: http://imgur.com/sAeVS7L

edit: from reuters

An amateur video broadcast by French television stations shows two hooded men outside the building. One of them sees a wounded policeman lying on the ground, rushes over to him and shoots him dead at point-blank range with a rifle. With the caveat that I absolutely could be wrong here, I'd expect to see some blood or other matter coming out along with the bullet - a shot won't generally pass clean through a person's head, and pop out neatly on the other side.  It wouldn't necessarily be a whole lot, but I'd expect to see some blood spatter on the pavement, but there's nothing there at all.

That said, this cop had already been shot, so it's possible he died of those wounds (and I don't know if the near-blast of an AK would kill you, I don't think it would but could be wrong there as well).

As for the guy not noticing, if he'd stopped and aimed I'm sure he'd have noticed if he missed, but he fires while half-jogging and immediately turns away without looking to see what effect he had (presumably assuming that he hit).     i don't know for sure either.  based on news reports he is dead.

&gt;I'd expect to see some blood or other matter coming out along with the bullet

his head drops from view immediately blocking the view of any effects. also fmj rounds don't always have a huge exit wound like hollow point rounds do. 

&gt;but he fires while half-jogging

he is 4 feet away and staring down the gun barrel when he pulls the trigger. he will know if he hit the guy or not. 

**Another policeman, the 12th fatality, was killed on nearby Boulevard Richard-Lenoir as the assailants engaged a patrol car in a shootout. The policeman was first wounded before being finished off as he lay on the ground, said Paris Prosecutor Francois Molins.**

so the dude is definitely dead and the paris prosecutor is claiming he was killed by the shot to the head. Nope, [this is moderate Islam](http://plancksconstant.org/blog1/iamges/sub10/mythical-moderate-muslim.jpg) That's quite accurate actually.

But really this is the REAL moderate, secular Islam:

http://i.cdn.travel.cnn.com/sites/default/files/styles/inline_image_400x267/public/2013/08/12/2.jpg?itok=iTNjuMd7

Although they could be atheists. I can't tell. No, it really isn't. It's religious extremism.

[This is moderate Islam.](http://globemuslims.com/files/en/news/2013/8/20/2132_553.jpg) [How would you describe these people?](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=tpeIS25jhK4) What he's doing is an indoctrination technique. Alright. And how would you describe these people? Are they still moderates as they claim? Or are these more in line with extreme views?

My point is that there is a sizeable chunk of the Muslim population in the world that does not disagree with these views. In other words, there's a huge chunk of people that are not easy-going live-and-let-live Muslims while also not being suicide bombers. 

[Here are some poll results.](http://www.washingtonpost.com/blogs/worldviews/wp/2013/05/01/64-percent-of-muslims-in-egypt-and-pakistan-support-the-death-penalty-for-leaving-islam/) Is "stoning people for leaving Islam" a moderate view, an extremist view, or something in-between? Is it fair to call it a "moderate" view if the majority hold this view?

I'm hesitant to call the people in your image "moderates". I'd rather consider them to be liberal Muslims.  [deleted] Publicly challenge them to debate. Get them to support their claims with good reasons, and absent of good reasons, ask them if this is reasonable. Get more liberal Muslims (and non-Muslims) to publicly state that this behaviour is simply not tolerated.

It sounds hippy and wishy-washy but it's non-violent and has the chance of actually bringing about change. The Muslim world is already undergoing a lot of change - it's happening. The best thing we can do is to support liberal Muslims in denouncing and not tolerating barbaric attitudes and behaviour. [deleted] My atheism is neither liberal nor moderate nor extremist. Since atheism is a binary position, it's like saying someone is "moderately dead."

I consider myself a moderate *anti-theist,*  however, which is separate from atheism. My view is that religion is something our species can eventually out-grow, as it is a net disbenefit. I recognize that there is a time and a place to criticise religion and I often hold my tongue around religious family members. But where appropriate, I speak out against religiously-based intolerance, hypocrisy, violence, etc.

In other words, I have strong views but I try not to be an asshole about it and I recognize that many people are victims of religion.


 Wow. Theres almost a dozen of them. The islamic world will surely sit up and take notice now Right.  And [This is moderate catholicism](https://encrypted-tbn3.gstatic.com/images?q=tbn:ANd9GcR5XUksFKe1LHL7AGnD-w41QU1sl8tYSCJ6_UXw3F5wjGddCyGmLg).
 That's such insane bullshit.

You're seriously taking this moment where a dozen people were killed to attack *moderate muslims*? Fuck you.

These people were extremists, extremists kill people. These people represent a small subset of a religion. Yeah that religion is homophobic and backwards, but so is Christianity.

Mourn the dead, don't use it for this shit. Being a muslim demands that you defend those who "insult" islam, so whats the problem with what happened in the eyes of islam? Well, hehe, you see, theres 2 kinds of religious people. 

Those who do everything their religious texts tell them, and those who cherry pick it based on various conditions they place on it. Most people are the latter, though not all pick the same cherries, for example, most of the latter don't eat the "go murdering people" cherries, but the former must by default. 

This pretty much effects every religion on Earth.  Why would it have to be a problem in the eyes of Islam to be extremism? Christians that mentally torture their children for being gay aren't considered moderate either. Your entire logic is flawed. You can find similar passages in the bible as well.

Deuteronomy 17:12:

And the man that will do presumptuously, and will not hearken unto the priest that standeth to minister there before the LORD thy God, or unto the judge, even that man shall die Please show me where in the Qur'an it says this. All Islam itself supports is what is written in the Qur'an. There are several people who throughout history have warped and twisted Mohammed's sayings, which in themselves may or may not be true, to create a completely different "religion" for themselves. The Qur'an, in several prominent verses tells its readers to not stay among those who insult their book and religion, and to not pay attention to their slurs. To say that Islam tells its followers to attack those who are against it is ridiculous. The real problem in my opinion is Wahhabism, founded by Muhammad ibn Abd al-Wahhab, who basically brought about the idea of following Mohammed as a god. It is an ultraconservative sect which is actually a much better representation of what people see as Islam than what Islam truly is (as it is written in the Qur'an. The Qur'an itself states to not believe in anything outside the Qur'an concerning Islam) "Defend those who insult islam" you said that wrong I'm guessing People can be moderate-anything and still be violent. Come back to the big-kid discussion when you actually know what you're talking about.  Christianity doesn't massacre people people in the street you fucking idiot. The religion Of Islam is a disease. Ah yes, moderate islam...

http://www.smh.com.au/world/new-aceh-law-punishes-gay-and-extramarital-sex-with-100-lashes-20140928-10n6xd.html You are quick with the dank memes [Nice meme!](http://www.niceme.me) Fuck all religions. And more fucks to Islam. The more acts like this happen, as horrible as they are, may be the only thing to wake people up to the fact that religion is just a psychological disorder.  All of it is.  And if we humans can start to realize it we may stand a chance and not just go extinct looking like a bunch of fucking idiots believing in really old fairy tales.  Allah is a coward; afraid of words, ideas, women, cartoons, and lunch one month a year.

Allah is a lie and Muhammad was his liar. Allah means God you dumb idiot. It's not his name. It also is crystal clear that Islam has roots in Christianity just as Christianity has roots in more ancient religions. But hey, fuck Islam because some people that present 1% of a religion commited disqusting crimes. Nevermind the 2000 years long colonization by Christians. &gt; Allah means God 

I know.

&gt; It also is crystal clear that Islam has roots in Christianity just as Christianity has roots in more ancient religions. 

I know.  Just as every educated human being does.

&gt;Nevermind the 2000 years long colonization by Christians.

Your insults belie your own assumptions, which are patently absurd given my posting history.

So, just for you, to make this crystal clear...

Jesus is a lie and Paul was a liar.

Moses and King David have been proven by Jewish scholars, historians, and archaeologists to be lies, so the many authors of the Torah were clearly liars.

All gods are lies and all "prophets" are liars.

Now which of my statements would get me killed in lands dominated by which religion? Yea, but you seem to ignore everything other than Islam. Also what are you trying to say here:

&gt;Your insults belie your own assumptions, which are patently absurd given my posting history.

&gt; Now which of my statements would get me killed in lands dominated by which religion?

In every of those mentioned if you deal with radicals. &gt;Yea, but you seem to ignore everything other than Islam.

Because you don't hear about Christians or Jews raiding buildings and killing people in civilized countries. simply put, there's nothing to ignore because, comparatively in the modern world, it rarely ever happens for other religions. Yea, last 2000 years was enough of slaughter in the name of religion, especially Christian religion. Incidentally, all the countries in which these horrible events happen are predominantly Christian. Things change.  Those religions are not doing those things NOW.  Huge groups of Muslims are.  Stay on topic.

The past is the past.  The present and its effect on the future are what matter. Huge groups? Your numbers are wrong. Huge is a subjective term and is often relative.

A huge mouse is obviously way smaller than a tiny elephant. Both your numbers and comparison are wrong. There's over 2 billion Muslims, you cannot say "huge" groups.  &gt; Yea, but you seem to ignore everything other than Islam.

This thread is about Islam.  I make it clear that Jesus is a mythical character whenever I get the chance.  And even the Jews have acknowledged that Moses and King David are fictitious inventions, so I don't really need to belabor that point. For printing purposes:

http://i.imgur.com/XhlHYr9.jpg

(NSFW) Print this page: http://zombietime.com/mohammed_image_archive/extreme_mohammed/ So sad. The problem is radicals. It's such a misnomer. They aren't rad at all.  Somebody's been watching some Vsauce recently They're not heroes. They are martyrs. I feel this is slightly disingenuous since, as we all know, "I may disagree with what you say but I will defend to the death your right to say it" is not exactly a unanimous opinion even in the western world.  This is what most redditors think about Islam and violence:

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=N_PZ6xtdfgc That's fucking beautiful.  My exact sentiment when seeing this. The rest of the civilized world needs to stand up and do the same against these useless parasites of humanity. Amen to that! oh wait *R'amen

FTFY I'd ramen to that too. It's delicious I'd like to think that this is how you end a prayer to the Flying Spaghetti Monster.  It is. Our pasta, who art in a colander, draining be your noodles.  
Thy noodle come, thy sauce be yum, on top of some grated parmesan.  
Give us this day our garlic bread, and forgive us our indulgences, as we forgive those who make reality TV.  
And lead us not into vegetarianism, but deliver us some pizza, for thine is the meatball, the noodle, and the sauce, forever and ever.  
R'amen So say we all BURN THE HEATHEN D: [HOLD THE HEATHEN HAMMER HIGH :D](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fu2bgwcv43o) FOR THE PAGAN GODS WE LIVE AND ONE DAY WILL DIE You're everywhere! What the civilized world needs to do is recognize religious fundamentalism as a psychological disorder so people who exhibit signs of it can be forcibly committed to psychiatric institutions for the sake of public health and safety I upvoted you but could you give an example of one of the signs? And why do we need to force them? &gt;why do we need to force them

For the same reason schizophrenics are sometimes involuntarily committed: they hear voices in their head that compel them to do things that may include hurting other people. The standard of "dangerous" is one of the criteria states use to legally determine to commit someone.

http://mentalillnesspolicy.org/studies/state-standards-involuntary-treatment.html

http://www.minddisorders.com/Flu-Inv/Involuntary-hospitalization.html

&gt;"dangerous to himself or herself or others" means there is a substantial risk that physical harm will be inflicted by an individual upon his or her own person or upon another person

I would say that those who sincerely and unrepentantly profess that 'heretics must die (just as one example),' present a not-insignificant danger to public safety, *based on the proportion of violent rampages that have some sort of ideological motivation. Indeed. And apply it equally. Think your prayers are better than a blood transfusion would be at saving your child's life? In you go!  I don't think those that would commit terrorism would care, it makes us feel good though. That's ok though, I think demonstrations like this are more for us anyway. Being able to connect and solidify the resolve not to let things like this incite (more) fear is what will help us to combat it. Ideas and doubts are the only things that can't be killed, but acts like this will at least help keep fear at bay. Condolences to those lost today, I hope their families will get the support they need.  There isn't a more poignant gesture though. It's ultimately meaningless to someone whose point is to inflict terror, but it is the only correct response of the "terrorized" - "we're not afraid." There isn't a more poignant gesture though. It's ultimately meaningless to someone whose point is to inflict terror, but it is the only correct response of the "terrorized" - "we're not afraid." Why not light up the whole middle-east Except for that one guy who's traveling and doesn't know WTF is going on because he just wants to buy himself some bread at French-Walmart. I feel that if you are traveling and buying your bread at French Wal-Mart, you're doing something very wrong  If you're buying anything at French Wal-Mart, you need to go back home because you're high.

There are no Wal-Marts in France. Somehow, Walmart missed most of Europe and went to China.  They'll take our discount prices on things that they already make anyway!

http://corporate.walmart.com/our-story/our-business/locations/#/ "how is this stuff so cheap?...oh wait:/" Plot Twist:  Chinese Wal-Mart only sells American made products Carrefour. Same concept. [French Walmart](https://c1.staticflickr.com/3/2234/2264658289_d87e41a8f0_b.jpg) Although Carrefour is much classier than Walmart. I believe you because the shopping carts are actually in their corrals. Also because the corrals are covered. And you rent them. If you do not bring it back, your money is gone.
 Rent is the wrong word. You provide collateral which never actually leaves  the cart. And only about 2 euros. Someone will bring it back for the money if the customer doesn't. Very efficient. 25 here at Aldi, people still bitch. Well that's because we don't have higher denomination coins in circulation. If we had a $1 or $2 coin, they would've used that. I'm not so sure. They do this in the USA with Aldi. Only way to get carts not scattered everywhere. It's a European thing, which makes sense since Aldi is a German company. Honestly wish they'd do it at more places in the US but I'm sure there'd be too many complaints. "Oui, oui, welcome to Walmart, you fat American bastard." "WHO ARE YOU TO RESIST IT, EH? MY CHILDREN NEED WINE!"
 ...and now I can't unread the French accent. Thanks a bunch It's also the best response  ..Then the Jihadist put a hand to his ear, and he did hear a sound rising over the snow. It started in low, then started to grow... Yahoo dorrrray.... Absolutely.  It really is, it says something very powerful about their resolve. This is how you defeat terrorism, by not being afraid,

This has always been the strongest weapon against terrorism, it is very sad no one says this anymore. And tomorrow morning, having every street corner in France plastered with obscene pictures of Mohammad taking cock in all holes.

^^Edit: ^^a ^^letter. This is what it's going to take.  They're the minority in a country that has a free press.  Force them to desensitize.

Fuck their stupid fantasy and their ridiculous, barbaric culture. I've made my contribution to DMD: http://imgur.com/s8EQTBg really close of a real one by Charlie Hebdo:


[Imgur](http://i.imgur.com/5tt12aU.jpg)


filming of the scandalous movie about Mahomet

"Are you sure mahomet had sex with a dead porc head ?"

"Dude, i don't have the money for a 9 year whore !" THIS.  THIS needs more upvotes.

Terrorism isn't about the damage your actions cause,  but about the damage you can get someone to do to themselves! Case in point: USA after 9/11. This is what more people need to realize.  Compare the general state of American society now to how it was on 9/10/01.  "The terrorists" won.

If we want to take victory back from the hands of defeat, we need to reestablish a way of life not defined by fear, surveillance, and policing. Nah, lets just give away all our rights and freedoms for *safety* The French are strong people. They have been through a lot throughout history. GOOD!  

I am so glad that societies reactions now to crazy people is not fear but rebellion.   [Meanwhile, in America]( http://i.cdn.turner.com/ireport/sm/prod/2014/02/28/WE01076767/3176305/swatbostonjpg-3176305_p9.jpg) America called in the army during the Boston Bombings? The Boston bombing was the first time I saw someone get 6 stars in real life. It was GTA come to life. Don't fuck with Boston.

I think one difference with Boston was that it wasn't a targeted attack. It was completely random. They called in the SWAT teams: a highly militarized version of the police force. SWAT teams are necessary to have in the context they were originally created for.

These don't look like local cops, they look like a Sheriff force which is, from what I've seen lately, far more like the military than standard police precincts. That's why I said highly militarized. SWATs are more heavily militarized than your average police force, but are not under military jurisdiction. Sometimes SWAT members are just regular cops in different gear.

EDIT: Pronouns I guess what I think of as militarized is the mindset mixed with the equipment. A SWAT team is equipped to prepare them for any situation but they are still expected to resolve a situation peacefully with force being an absolute last resort. They are typically veteran cops with lots of experience.

What I think of militarized is the police getting tons of military surplus for every day use. When your local police force could hold off an attack from your local national guard I think there is a problem. The town I live in has a very mild police force. About 40k residents and few enough police officers that I could recognize them all. I don't really have much experience (thank the ~~lord~~ Spaghetti Monster) with surplus military supplies being delivered to my town  I live in a town with 44k people in it. We have at least 50 uniformed police. Also, detectives and all that jazz too. 

I don't think I live in a good town.  wow.

When I think of SWAT teams, I think of 20 men jumping out a truck a busting doors, not patrolling streets in armored trucks. Our police are essentially a paramilitary force now, and they're completely unashamed of it. It's ridiculous. Well, you know... you wouldn't want a cop to get hurt or injured by some irate homeowner just because the cop illegally entered his home, terrorized his family and shot his dog. Why are you so anti-cop? "If I don't shoot the dog, we won't be safe" said no one in full body armor ever. True reason "I want to shoot something living and face no/few consquences." Unfortunately the position definitely appeals to those who want to kill, just like how some people who want to be congressman are all about the money Fascism rarely has any shame or self awareness, that's part of the attraction. And Americans wonder why there is no money to repair bridges, provide healthcare, fund schools and feed their citizenry nutritious food. 

There it is. There is all the money you need for all of these things, rolling down the street with a gun pointed at you. Hey we are happy to provide people in other countries the experience of our tax dollars rolling down the street and pointing a gun at them. Generous are we. Only the finest in surplus from Iraq and Afghanistan given as a gift by "Homeland Security" and paid for by the US tax payer.
 Watch [this](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0qFmPjtftkE) recent doco on the attack (also on Netflix). Sheds some light on areas and brought others to my attention; like the fact that there was a shoot out between both brothers &amp; the police in the days before they were captured, and that the last remaining brother ran over his other brother as he was getting away, and that during the fire fight they were throwing pipe bombs &amp; pressure cooker bombs at police..

..Leaves the "they were set up" conspiracy crowd with little credibility. Army surplus goes to local law enforcement and there is a policy of use it or lose it.   Hardly anyone complained because when they reached their door, homeowners welcomed them in.  Yeah the opinion of people inside Boston vs the people outside Boston is vastly different when it comes to the lock down. Utter lack of informed opinions. It wasn't even close to martial law. For Shit's sake they kept the Dunkin Donuts open Every single person I've ever heard complain about the reaction and proceeding search has been from someone outside Boston who clearly has obtained their miniscule amount of information from reddit Are you serious? There was nothing illegal about those searches. The doctrine of "hot pursuit" is old and firmly entrenched in American law and allows these types of home searches when police are in active pursuit of a threat. Your post is nonsense. 

And by the way, those cops were searching for terrorists who were heavily armed and had already gotten in a fire fight with law enforcement. So of course that officer pointed his gun when he saw a figure in a window with an object in his hand. The cop then probably saw the person was harmlessly holding a camera and went on with his job. 

It's so easy for you to criticize from behind your keyboard when you're not the one doing a dangerous job to protect others. exactly. I don't know whats more idiotic, random BS comments like his or the people on reddit who lapped up the opinion. Vive la france! Vive la France et vive la libert! Why is it in English? I think they want the world to know their indignation.  So angry they wrote it in English!!! For France that's saying something  ...in English. I'd make a joke that the French dont have a word that means "not afraid" but that seems in poor taste.  I'll tell your joke to my French friend so he can surrender himself to a good chuckle.  He can't resist.  Subtle. "pas peur" AND ALL CAPS! Eminem fans I have it stuck in my head since I saw the pic. *To take a stand (to take a stand)*... best comment in thread highly underrated but probably flew over many heads. Flew over mine. The most prominent trade language. Also helps to communicate to the UK and US since both countries are so powerful.  Because English has now replaced French as the *lingua franca.* Speak english you commie This isn't /r/MURICA /r/MURICA is supporting the crap out of France right now. They wouldn't call French a commie language! That man is not a true murican! *Lingua franca* is Italian. eh, most countries speak English and those that don't teach English to an extent that most have a basic grasp. Basically so they can tell the most people in the world, plus.

Also, probably so they can try and get influence from the UK and USA since they're the most diplomatically, intelligently (intel) and militarily the most powerful countries in the world. No doubt MI6 and the CIA are working with French Intel forces as we speak, with MI5 and FIB on high alert. Fib? too much GTA Fuckin Illinois Bastard I hate Illinois nazis. Yeah, with the FIB using Michael, Trevor, and Franklin, they'd be able to hunt the terrorists down pretty quickly.  They want to convince reddit to find the bad guys, like we did last time It's the most understood language in the world, it can be translated without error and it shows the world a clear message that we should not be afraid of ISIS but instead standing together to eradicate the imbeciles.

I'm surprised there hasn't been an global conference especially with the big boys of United States of America, United Kingdom, Germany,  Canada, Australia, France, Pakistan, Turkey, India, China, Japan, South Korea to create a taskforce to deal with this.

It would also be a good thing if Denmark, Netherlands, Sweden, Finland, Switzerland, Norway, Singapore and New Zealand all joined in.

Together we can stop radicals with relative ease, we can be immensely smart, intelligent, strong and good. 
 I don't know if Pakistan is ready to sign on to a task force bent on eradicating radical muslims worldwide.  But it would be great if they did commit. Because that's when you know the French are pissed. Are those Lite Brite's?


Edit: anubis89 has brought to my attention that I've forgotten my childhood and it isn't nite bright. Childhood me please have pity.  Lite brite? England here, although we always bicker and take the piss. We love you really and have your backs!!! Stand strong France, we are all with you. &gt; England here

All of England is behind you, France! ...mmmmhmmm...
-France  And that's how America and Canada were born.  Pass the lube! - England The French said the same to us on 7/7. A good sentiment to repeat. And they've finally come around to English. Only took 1000 years.  Merci.

Source: French. Don't fuck with the French and their satire, They brought down tyrants with it. The country was founded with it. I wish Anonymous would focus on fucking up electronic communications for Al Queda and ISIS rather than threatening to expose Iggy Azelia's sex tape and shit like that.  Yeah, Anonymous. You've got some homework to do!! Anonymous is just a guise for anybody on the internet. You and your friends can identify publicly as anonymous if you want, though really at this point it's probably more derogatory than it is courageous as an association for any serious activist.

Anonymous is not an organised group, it's an idea. Designed to promote togetherness as internet users through ideology and demote segregation due to non-factors.

Unless you're personally leading the charge you can't really expect any better. It's just people acting for what they personally believe in, which due to the nature of the whole thing might just be Iggy Azelias sex tape being revealed. I wish I could be there with them. :'(

I hope their sentiments only grow stronger...  I'd like to see something like "we are not dead, only grieving" on the charlie hebdo cover. And just a black cover with/or We are Charlie for the others newspapers. Also would like to see my compratiot asking and protesting together for the heads of these guys. Our government need to react firmly. 

dit: and maybe all the bests cartoons of the drawers.  that wouldn't be their style, i would expect a crude drawing of Muhammad with like 30 dicks in him.  Je suis Charlie. Moi aussi, je suis Charlie! Nous sommes tous Charlie! That's amazing. I applaud the french people for their courage in this moment of pain. They've acted amazingly throughout this whole atrocity. They've shown so much courage. 

Charlie Hebdo journalists have shown throughout the countless threats they had, that they had the balls to stand up for themselves, no matter what. 

Seeing the Parisian people standing together like this in a show of solidarity, it's fucking beautiful. 

You guys are strong enough to get through this, but as a fellow European (UK), we're here to back you up through anything.

Keep strong, you guys *will* catch these fucking cretins. Vive La France! Vive La Libert!

We are with you France. Stand strong. How I wish this had been the US reaction after 9/11 instead of rushing to sign away our right on a floodtide of fear pee. TO TAKE A STAND,
EVERYBODY,
COME TAKE MY HAND  WE'LL WALK THIS ROAD TOGETHER,
THROUGH THE STORM my time to shine Checks out

*EDIT* I dread the day my username is relevant. If Linus Torvalds ends up in a wheelchair I'm holding you personally responsible. I was hoping for a FUCK YOU somewhere in there. Looks like a whole city of fuck yous in there. So proud of France. Fuck yea! Mur-


Wait a second...

RUNCE! It's "Rance" not "Runce".  
/r/Rance Absolutely fucking awesome! Go Paris! Go!!

I'm not a very emotional individual, but this really brings tears of joy to my eyes. France, fuck yeah! I was only 14 when 9/11 happened, and the only image I have from that day besides the horror, shock, the buildings themselves, and the screams, was footage of proud Muslims dancing in the streets of Elizabeth. 

There was nothing like this . 

I wouldn't wish the pain and suffering that the people of Paris felt today on anyone, but speaking from the perspective of the United States , we've been there , and I hope this country gives France all the help and support they need  I was only 9 when 9/11 happened and seeing people celebrating in the Middle East was the first thing I saw on TV when I got home from school. Still bothers me to this day. 3k innocent people had been killed and they're dancing like they just won a game. Pissed me off.  I remember a head-scarf wearing coworker being fired on the spot for saying what happened was a good thing and she supported it.

Here in the Netherlands, with our kind of job security, that is a rare thing indeed.  I can see people living less than a kilometre away from me saying the attack on Charlie was a good thing. Fuck Belgium.  Pretty sure that was recycled footage from some other random, happy gathering of people in the Middle East. I don't think there were huge demonstrations of how happy people were in that region on that day.  Seeing Palestine's cheering on the streets on 911 defiantly left we with vastly less sympathy for the Palestinian cause; one they seem desperate to loose with every opportunity. 

I also recall candlelight vigil's held in Iran on that day. 
Days like 911 let you know who are your friends, and who are your enemies. Given the US support for Israel and Israels expansion into Palestine why would you be surprised about Palestinians showing animosity towards the supporters of their oppressors? Because civilized human beings don't celebrate the deaths of innocents, regardless of their grievances. I was eleven.  I lived in the city with the highest per-capita Muslim population in the country.  Please remember there were a lot more people of that faith grieving with and for us than dancing in the street, in this country and around the world.  Ignorance is the enemy, not people. When will these Muslims learn? If you don't like someone's opinions you don't kill them, you do what a civilized person would do and you hack Sony.  If it were the US we'd have a president in the middle of the crowd vowing vengeance via an invasion into a country completely unrelated to the situation. Direct link to much larger image (hosted by CNN): http://i2.cdn.turner.com/cnnnext/dam/assets/150107191146-26-paris-reax-0107-full-169.jpg I've said this before, we just got to flood the media with insulting depictions of Mohammad until the Muslim community suffers from rage fatigue. The Muslim community has some serious rage stamina. That might be a long fight. Source? It's not a source, but you can find some pics [here](http://www.liberation.fr/photographie/2015/01/07/a-paris-hommage-massif-aux-victimes_1175852?photo_id=705627). 

This [one is from my town](http://i.imgur.com/sHySko7.jpg), Nantes.It was a need (at least for me) to gather everywhere in France, in peace, in sadness. A better perspective [here](http://i.imgur.com/rbLDZMY.jpg). [source](http://www.presseocean.fr/actualite/nantes-des-milliers-de-personnes-au-rassemblement-en-soutien-a-charlie-hebdo-07-01-2015-14)

There's no anger, no "fuck you". Just pain. You can't be anger against stupidity and darkness, it's just sad. Wolinski was 80 years old. Cabu was 77. We grew up with them. They were pacifists and against mediocrity. We stand here and fight, with our pens, our words, our intelligence, because it's everything fundamentalists fear. And we will win. That's why we are not afraid. &gt;They were pacifists and against mediocrity. We stand here and fight, with our pens, our words, our intelligence, because it's everything fundamentalists fear.

That's an amazing way to honour someone. It's a pity we don't do that more often. How well known are these guys to average French people? Were they known before the provocative Mohammed cartoons of the recent years? At least three of them were very famous cartoonists. Cabu and Wolinski in particular were two of the the most famous cartoonists in France, known by every generations since decades. Thanks for the reply. I think the only cartoonists that Americans know are from the comics page. They were not only "political" cartoonists. For example, in the eighties, Cabu was a cartoonist for a very famous TV show for kids. Most people of my generation grew up with him. Wolinski was huge in the sixties/seventies, he worked for Hara Kiri, an earlier incarnation of Charlie Hebdo that did a lot for the sexual revolution or modern humor. Those dumb asses probably don't know how many more got inspired by this events and dedicated their life to carry the torch(or pen).

It's exactly like trying to do censoring in a sub and it exploded to front page. Charlie Hebdo is well known in France (for someone between 18-99 years old), Cabu was famous not because Mohammed cartoons, but for "[le beauf](https://www.google.fr/search?q=cabu+le+beauf&amp;source=lnms&amp;tbm=isch&amp;sa=X&amp;ei=YdqtVNHNNsLxUsrUgvAF&amp;ved=0CAgQ_AUoAQ&amp;biw=1584&amp;bih=844)",  (it would be the average redneck, racist, dirty, always with some booze, or just think about the parisian stereotypes).

The mohammed cartoons were not even a slight part of the work of those men. All the religions were crap for them. Like [this cartoon](https://www.actualitte.com/images/actualites/fanatiques_cabu.jpg) ^(*banner*: woman is the future of the fanatcis. *sign*: Don't touch my veil!) 

Wolinski was famous for [the naked women in his cartoons **NSFW**](http://www.slate.fr/sites/default/files/imagecache/720x600/7-_autoportrait.jpg). He was madly in love with women. 

 This is "Place de la Rpublique" (the place of the Republic) in Paris (I was there). It's things like this that piss me off when people refer to the French as "cheese-eating surrender monkeys". They're fucking passionate people, unlike our apathetic lazy asses.  And you *don't* want to mess with their secret service, as Greenpeace found out.

Or the Foreign Legion. French here, the bombing of the Greenpeace boat was a terrible fuck-up we are still ashamed today, not only because it was wrong to go bomb a civil boat in a foreign country, but the poor retards get caught! What kind of secret service is that.

But yeah, don't mess with the Legion :) Wow I googled that Greenpeace thing, that's some serious shit Ugh. Self-loathing Americans are so played out. There are passionate people everywhere.  Didn't they help liberate america? Do you hear the people sing? Singing the song of angry men. It is the music of the people who will not be slaves again.  vive la fucking France London Muslims staged a 10,000 strong protest outside of Google over an anti-Islam video they (youtube) hosted, they managed to organise this in 24 hours. [HERE](http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/9607763/Muslims-protest-age-of-mockery-as-thousands-descend-on-Google-HQ.html) 

I wonder if they'll do the same to denounce the execution of the Charlie Hebdo employees and police in Paris?

*edit-typo Reminds me of Boston, except the opposite.  What an amazingly different response.

(not a knock against Bostonians, it's the officials in Paris/Boston who encouraged the respective responses) To be fair in Boston I think there was a larger danger that there were similar explosives left in other spots around the city (whereas with the Paris attack it was a group of individuals targeting a specific magazine) I thought about that, but of course these lunatics are still at large and who knows what they're planning... Except for the fact that the news right now is saying the police are conducting door to door searches there right now.  Nope. Not door to door. They are searching a very little number of places (with warrants) that have links with the suspects. This will get lost, but if anyone from France is reading please know that America hurts so badly for you. As a nation and victims of their incessant violence against the innocent, WE ARE NOT AFRAID. This is a beautiful (yet heartbreaking) photo. Thank you for sharing.  Hell-fucking-yeah!!  This is what solidarity looks like! Seriously. Fuck the Islamic extremism already. And props to these people. I'd be right there with them, although I'm not French. 

 [my version](http://i.imgur.com/JnC7wvl.jpg) holy shit I got teary eyed and smiled... Tears of joy!!! This is what needs to happen when this shit happens, come together as one and say NO to extremism!!!  Stand for free expression! No one will kill our freedom of speech. Is this a pro-Eminem rally?  If the terrorists were smart, they would have baited out a demonstration and attacked that. Hey guys I found the terrorist! No, you found the thinker. A thinker is a better than a few thousand feel-good-seekers in the hashtag marathon to show who cares most on social media. Vigipirate is on attack alert since the shootings, you may not see the cops in the photograph but they are there. Not sure what they could do against a suicide belt though, to be fair.

But, that's also why we have secret services (and an efficient one at that). This needs infinity upvotes.  to take a stand...   Everybody come take my hand.. we'll walk this road together.. Through the storm Whatever weather.. COLD OR WARM Mom's spaghetti  Whatever weather  MOMS SPAGHETTI! They should have brought a massive mohammed picture aswell Because it worked so well last time. They should burn an effigy of Mohammad next to the "not afraid" sign to get their point across. No because we (i am french) don't hate Islam. We are better than those terrorists retards. Reminds me of [this](http://4.bp.blogspot.com/-mAo2RWEIN6g/UGuaBXyzCUI/AAAAAAAAAtw/MGKR-bPlY7w/s1600/LesMisBarricade.png)

*Can you hear the people sing...* Notice how the French can spell English better than American Tea Partiers. Kick their ass seabass! This is fucking awesome. If the French can do it so can the rest of the world. Fuck the terrorists.  In English? L'Academie Francaise must be shitting its pants.  Surprised to see English slogan https://i.imgur.com/GjxraeI.jpg Incredibly proud to be Parisian and the way things were handled by my fellow French peeps out there. Chins up, united! I was at my local tavern in upstate ny, we are with you France, enough is enough, this barbarism has no place in a civilized world. Thank goodness the french arent as cowardly as the rest of the world still  thinks! the french have never beeen coward. The stereotype is based on there hastly "surrendur" at the beggining of ww2, but many people forget how hurrendus their losses were in the first stages of the war. America has never lost as many soldiers, in all wars they ever participated in.

http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/French_prisoners_of_war_in_World_War_II

the germans captured 10% of the total male population... consider that number for a second.  Damn, we Americans could stand to man up and show the world that we aren't scared of terrorism either.  We're such lousy scared-y cats.   Polytheists really do have an easier time. "Mom, why do bad things happen to good people?" "Because Zeus is a drunken man-whore and Poseidon hates your land-dwelling guts. Now shut up and drink your posca." The stories are so much better, too. Greek theology is basically a sitcom with a ton of side-stories. Yeah, Greek mythology is sweet, it has all the patricide and betrayals of the modern religions but it has love affairs, transformations, curses, heroes, and monsters on top of that. Don't forget the bestiality! How could I ever! I'm calling /u/btwIAMAzoophile just for you. 

 Well thanks, dear. I'm pretty sure that's what they were supposed to be. I doubt there was much stories and books going around (especially since most of the people couldn't read right?)

So this is all to keep people entertained. It was never meant to teach huge life lessons (although there are some good ones to be found) [deleted] Religion is how the first nerds took control of the first jocks. Its all about the sky cake. I can't enjoy my sky cake if there is sky pie and sky baklava! As someone who was once very religious, I tend to see the origins of religion as nothing more than people coming together to try and best describe the world around them. I don't think it started out as something malevolent.

Like your example, people realized that pigs just weren't safe to eat with their methods. Someone may have inferred that pigs are just 'unclean' and this was because the gods said so, just as the gods told the sun to rise and set and the seasons to change. Of course, eventually, people found out how useful religion was for control over others, Think of medieval christianity and the fear of god. Catholic priest had a lot of power and influence because they made people fear god so that they would listen to them. You should read Norse theology, shit's hilarious. The good ones like baby jesus fighting dragons were taken out of the bible and others like the two sorcerers that were so powerful god and no other option than to kill them and bring them to heaven aren't talked about much.  Oh don't forget Adam's first wife, Lilith! With Don Knotts as Teiresias. I always enjoyed the story of the Apple of Discord:

&gt;The Golden Apple of Discord on which, according to Greek mythology, the goddess Eris (Gr. , "Strife") inscribed "to the fairest" and tossed in the midst of the feast of the gods at the wedding of Peleus and Thetis, thus sparking a vanity-fueled dispute among Hera, Athena, and Aphrodite that eventually led to the Trojan War.

It kinda reads like a plot summary to some classic sitcom episode. George: So she tosses in the apple, and who walks into the hall but Susan!

Jerry: Your fianc?

George: Yes Jerry, of course my fianc.

Jerry: So what did you do?

George: I didn't know what to do!  How am I supposed to decide on something like that?  I'm can't say Susan's not the fairest right in front of her, but Aphrodite's the goddess of beauty!  I mean, have you seen her... *gesturing*

Jerry: Oh, I've seen them.

George: And Hera lay some terrible curse on me if I said anything bad about her!  I was trapped!

Kramer bursts into the room: Have you guys tried these pomegranates?  They're delicious!

Edit: Kramer. I hate sitcoms and I would totally watch that. 

Especially if there was another sitcom about the Aesir and occasionally they did crossovers. Join us at /r/modernhellenism where the gods don't give a shit about you Unless one of them thinks you're hot, in which case the upside is you get to have sex with a god or goddess but the downside is you'll get turned into a tree or a cow to hide you from the god's jealous spouse, or given the gift of eternal life but not eternal youth or something worse.  When I was younger I loved Greek mythology and considered converting. But I couldn't find a temple to Zeus in my area so I gave up.   Pretty much anywhere you can enjoy a bottle of wine and someone's wife works for me. "Posca! Fetch the dogs!"

"Yes, domina." Reminds me of the show Rome. I suspect there is a much more intellectual reference I am not privy to. The "love" story between Attia and Marc Anthony in that show is one of my very favorites in all of television. I kind of hated that Cleopatra came between them, but it made Anthony's suicide that much more tragic in the end.  "Anything to get rid of this fucking headache." Don't worry I thought the exact same thing  Nope, you got it right :) It is from Rome.  It is when Attia is chasing off Octavia's ex-husband Glabius.  I have watched that series innumerable times and it is still great. Not only that polytheism allows for much more religious tolerance than monotheism.  If you already believe in a multitude of deities it is a small thing to accept that the gods of your neighboring lands also exist.  If there is but one god and he is the one you happen to worship than anyone claiming otherwise is not only wrong but talking evil heretical nonsense.

Side note : my young daughters love the Greek gods and frequently play games where they are Athena and Artemis or are retainers to Aphrodite.  Makes for some amusingly awkward conversation with their Christian friends.  That's "god-whore" to you. I wish I were half as eloquent as Stephen Fry. Well I wish I was twice as eloquent. Human mouths can't handle articulation of that level. You'd have to get another mouth or two installed at the very least.  [Only a problem for some, not...](https://i.imgur.com/032bm8S.gif) Oh fuck, someone get Dream in here. Corinthian's on the loose again. ew Depending on how flexible your definition of eloquence is, that could count. Fry is already at 11 on the eloquence volume.  It doesn't go any higher than 11.

Edit:  Reddit sound engineers filling my inbox He is one louder 

[Reference for those that do not know](http://youtu.be/KOO5S4vxi0o) He is one eloquenter.  It makes you wonder how much more eloquent you could be and the answer is none. None more eloquent. Well, I wish for more wishes. [Impossible!](http://youtu.be/yUS96YyisoE?t=27m53s) Too eloquent. The man is an old school erudite. This is the level of knowledge every child should walk out of a school with.

It serves a person all their life and it prevents them from being bowled over by every blowhard who comes along to try and impress them with nonsense. The thing is, Fry was a notorious blow-off, casual criminal, drug user, got thrown out of school multiple times. What this man is now is a product of a life long passion for language and knowledge, and a great deal of narcissism - not necessarily a success or failure of the school system.  That is absolutely a valid point. He was not the most easy young person to get  along with. He has bipolar disorder which was a big influence on his formative years.  I was not aware of that. I know he has had serious problems with depression. He made a two part documentary a few years back called "The Secret Life of a Manic Depressive". It's well worth watching.

EDIT* Corrected the title, I was getting it confused with another documentary he made called "HIV and Me."  I think you're right about what you said except about the narcissism. He's bi-polar, or "bi-polar lite" as he sometimes describes it and actually harbours a lot of self-hatred. Self-obsession also, but self-obsession does not mean self-love even if it might look like it at first. I'm not saying he's devoid of any level of narcissism. Everyone has to have a certain level of self-love to be emotionally healthy, but I would think Stephen's level narcissism is actually probably on the lower side. I'm 20 and in my fourth year of mechanical engineering, I've jumped a grade, and completed IB Psychology and English (i.e. university level courses during high school for which you get credit).  I would say I am a decently intelligent and rational human, yet I simply do not have a large enough vocabulary to express myself eloquently and intelligently, and often find myself stumbling to try to properly express what is in my head through the words at my disposal.  Can anyone suggest anything to help with increasing vocabulary and becoming more articulate? 

*EDIT: awesome replies everyone thank you, lots of suggestions that hadn't even crossed my mind!*

*EDIT: articulate not articulated, see, I'm better already !* Late to this, but I am an actor and voiceover artist of sorts.  

Read things aloud.  All sorts of things.  Fiction, textbooks, poetry, plays, magazines, whatever. 

Concentrate on pace, honoring punctuation, and comprehension.  Record yourself.  Play it back.  Be honest in your critique of your voice, but also learn to accept that you hear your voice differently to everyone around you.   This is probably one of the best comments on the subject.

Learning how to express oneself was sorely missing in my education, and while my vocabulary very rarely fails me when reading/listening to these things, making it work to my advantage when I'm writing/talking is much harder.

Looking back at my education, I've often wondered why your class is called English rather than "English literature" (substitute the language as needed), as that seems to the be the primary purpose of those classes.

Why not teach students how to properly communicate? One thing I **hated** during my later studies (IT), was how often I heard other people say "*grammar isn't important*", when dealing with reports, which is insane on multiple levels, as these are people who can understand using indentation as nesting and various C-pointers, but can't get their heads around "*its*" and "*it's*".

Learning how to communicate properly (not just grammar, but eloquence) is vital, and it is sadly lacking in education, and all of us suffer as a consequence. Most people don't use their full vocabluary out of the fear of sounding like elitists I did this all throughout school. 

Ironically, school seems to be the one place where people encounter the most hostility towards expressions of intelligence, whether overt or reserved. I quickly learned to either make myself sound like an idiot when talking to people, or simply say nothing at all.

Even now, I get little pings of anxiety whenever I use an uncommon word in conversation.

TL;DR school done fucked me up but good. There are whole segments of society here in the States that look down on you when you use that "fancy" language or have the audacity (oh, sorry, fancy word) to get a college degree.    I am a trial attorney with over 100 jury trial under his belt and can absolutely confirm this. Seminars are constantly reminding us how badly most Americans hate anyone they perceive as being highly educated or intelligent and about how we need to be sure to use the language of the people we are trying to convince. That is NOT accomplished by showing off a big vocabulary in Texas, USA.   I came of age in a rural, southern US town.  What you say is certainly true of my anecdotal experience.

I mourn the slow death of the English language on a near daily basis. Im starting to think Idiocracy is isn't a comedy but a time travelling documentary. That's utterly tragic. Flaunt it in all aspects not relating to work! Some of us enjoy it. 

-New Braunfels with no friends Don't flaunt it. Use it if it's appropriate. Brought to you by Carl's Junior... People have often commented I have a wide vocabulary, and I don't try to over or under use it. People do occasionally get testy with me and complain I'm trying to be bombastic or elitist, which I just find confusing. I'm just talking. It says more about the listener than the speaker.  Read, /u/twomice- that's all you need to do. Read with the joy of life itself. Words will come to you. Reading also makes you a better writer.  Read stuff that isn't dumbed down though if the goal is increased vocabulary.  It also helps if it's entertaining.  Read LITERATURE not blogs or websites.  Reading V.S. Naipaul got me hooked on reading again personally.  But maybe for you (OP) it's scifi or another genre that interests you so start there.   I started out with science fiction. It just blew my mind that this kind of books of even existed. I have since greatly expanded on my repertoire and i read all manner of books.

If I had all the money I needed to keep this body alive, fed and decently housed, I would devote my life to reading and writing. I love to read and have read 1000's of books. I still don't have the skill to articulate so eloquently, that is a talent of it's own. On the other hand I can understand the spoken word for the most part. Stephen Fry was brilliant! A lot of people are saying reading and while that is a great way to increase your vocabulary, I think and even more effective way is to surround yourself by other people who speak like that. Listen to BBC, or podcasts or go watch QI with Stephen Fry. The more you hear those words being used, the more you're likely to use them. Most people have the vocabulary, but actually using it off the cuff is an entirely different thing. Schools used to offer entire classes in this, in eloquent conversation, but that has fallen out of style. My advice would be to take some acting classes, and focus on improve training.  There are these Church of England schools in Britain, probably the schools he attended, that pride themselves on intelligent debate. They are the 'old boys club' style schools. I don't really know how to describe them but I was lucky enough to go to one of these, a mixed-sex school (which was all boys from ages 11-16 and had a mixed-sex upper sixth), as a teenage girl when I was studying towards my A-Levels. It was a grammar school that I attended from 16-18, it had the best philosophy classes that would arm you for life with great arguments and a wider view on the world. It was considered cool to be clever and although the school was Church of England you were shaped to make your own decisions in life without a god. I also feel that religious education classes in the UK (not sure if they are still offered?), give young people a solid way to develop critical thinking and understanding of all religions and ethical believes in the world. 

So basically get yourself enrolled in a philosophy class or even religious education classes (there are probably more examples I'm sure). You'll be forced to debate subjects and give your pros and cons. You'll also be forced to disagree with others and form your own arguments this would hopefully help you develop your vocabulary. Don't forget to ready many books, not Tom Clancy - but something old with lots of social undertones, possibly Chaucer. An advanced literature class may be a good investment, depending on the texts you study.

Also, you're only 20... when you're his age you'll be wiser and have a more extensive vocabulary.  You must practice.  It's really that simple.  Find a way to practice it. Here are some [recommendations from ehow] (http://www.ehow.com/info_8116027_novels-improve-vocabulary.html)
and as you're interested in psychology I'd suggest  Chesterton's [Father Brown stories] (http://www.gutenberg.org/files/204/204-h/204-h.htm), not only for his mastery of the English language but also for their great insight into the mental processes of the theistic mind.  it's called going to a posh school 

 Posted earlier today by /u/Tech46 in /r/Ireland  so thanks to him for sharing. I woke up with a start this morning, I knew something wasn't quite right. I logged on to Reddit and found the karma had been stolen while I was asleep. Ha ha!

 Seriously though, thanks for the shout out. Great clip, I think it's a bit edited to show Auntie Gaybo's face like that for the lolz. I think that makes it funnier to be honest. Actually it was /u/Tech46... /u/Tech42

/r/Ireland I wasn't sure if Gay Byrne was the name of the presenter, or the thing Stephen fry did to the presenter.

That was an epic reply to that question Gay Byrne is somewhat of a national treasure in Ireland, have hosted The Late Late show (the world's longest running running chat show by the same broadcaster) for around 40 years. He is probably most famous for bringing the idea of contraception being 'a good thing' (this was decades ago in Catholic Ireland) into  a national discussion, and really fought hard against the church back then. 

He is probably the best interviewer I have ever seen in terms of putting his guest at ease and developing a natural 'rhythm' to his interviews. In a way I'm not surprised this great response came during an interview with Gay - he has this amazing ability to allow guests the freedom to say exactly what they want. His weird looking reaction in this interview isn't really "OMG, God bad??", but rather a spring-box for getting Stephen Fry to continue his point. Brilliant.  Also I loved his response to Fry. Just a nice little quip to reset the mood. I know, though I am generally unfamiliar with Gay Byrne I can respect what he has done especially as Ireland is a much more religious country then we, Great Britain (not including NI), are.

The pun was just sitting there ready to be taken.  Gay Rekt Byrne Heal This is the opinion of most atheists summed up in a few sentences in a mere moment that will confuse a believer until they tell you God moves in mysterious ways. That's the exact defense I plan on using, if I ever decide to go on a bloody rampage. Then, after that say you are Jesus. You will either be seen as the messiah or get a shorter sentence because you're insane. The joke is on the Christians, Jesus has already returned but we locked him up in a nut house. something about not seeing the "bigger picture" - I hated that answer. Wow.  If I ever "come out" to my parents as an atheist, I'm showing them this video.  He explains my thoughts to much better than I ever could.   The time I "came out" they were surprisingly very accepting. I guess it depends on your family's situation, but my dad actually talked to me in private and told me he's an agnostic. Ever since then, I've confided in my dad for meaningful conversations regarding religion. So I'd recommend giving it a try. Chances are, you'll be able to have a great conversation even if they disagree with you since they ultimately love you.  I'm irish as a kid I went to church like it was just a thing to do. Then one day we all stopped going. Like.  All my extended family friends etc. As if my community just suddenly said.  "Wtf are we doing" my mum believes in god but the fact that I don't is a none issue. Nobody cares. Never even labeled myself as atheist until modern media The waking up of ireland, in response to the reporting of the crimes of the catholic church, really needs to be a film some day.

It wasn't quite "right, well we all don't believe now", but it was a pretty dramatic *relaxing* of the anal sphincter, letting all the shit out.

Positive proof that eventually people can take no more.
 Well said. As a kid in the 90s I didn't know much. All makes sense these days. Good to see Ireland (slowly) modern in in this sense. This year were holding a referencing for equal rights for same sex marriage. Calvary is a pretty cool movie that touches on it a little... not in a massive scale but at a more personal one. I'm in a muslim highly religious family so imagine how hard i will have it when i " come out" ( not to undermine you of course!)  I told my Muslim mother I don't believe in God anymore and I got a tearful 'you're just angry with God.' rebuttal. The hardest part for me was I could tell my mom was more upset at herself after the conversation for 'failing' at raising me in the religion properly. You pretty much just summed up every Irish family there.. We went regularly to church right up to my confirmation then it just kind of stopped. My Mam still believes but I don't  think even she knows why any more. Probably because her parents are dead. Some of the stories my Dad tells me about the grip the church used to have on the country is shocking. Like having to stop and bow to priest on the road. And if they showed up randomly at your house you'd have to give them something like food, money or even lend a kid to give a hand(makes me feel sick to think what some priests might have got up to!!!). In the words of Father Ted "*Fascists dress in black and go around telling people what to do, whereas...priests... More drink!*" I havr never had faith, told my parents I thought the Bible was just another fairy-tale book when I was in first grade, never had faith in my 23 years of existence (at least, as far as I can remember), despite going to Catholic school my whole life.

Nonetheless, mom still calls it a phase I'll get over eventually lol parents still love me, luckily, but I'm not allowed to voice my real opinions near the rest of the family (but I do; as a result, one of my aunts doesn't let me hang out with her son).

So yeah, it DEFINITELY depends on the person haha. It's a bit darker, [but I love this video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=E15IC3YKv8g), which is in a similar vein. Holy shit, that was incredible! That's Phil Helens, I love his work. I know a lot of you might look at Gay Byrne from a foreign perspective based on that uncomfortable reaction and think that he must be the stereotypical old bigoted Irish man but you'd be wrong.

He is responsible for so much social change in this country that I can only ever respect him. He put gays on his show (a show that most weeks was watched by about a 1/3 of Ireland's population) in the 1980s - when sodomy was still illegal in Ireland - and presented them as real people and let them confront the small minded people in the audience. Now 71% of Ireland's population say they're going to vote yes in May to marriage equality.  

He talked about abortion, divorce and criticised the Catholic Church in the 1970s. His influence was one of the first things that made us wake up from our collective conservative, religious trance from the previous 60 years and he is not the man he comes across in this video.

In fact, this show is brilliant. He talks to all kinds of international celebrities about their beliefs (no matter how whacky) and respects them and doesn't try to debate them. It's a show I can't imagine you could put on prime time tv in the States. A lot of people here are misinterpreting Gay Byrnes reaction - perhaps projecting the anger they would envisage US media hosts like Bill O' Reilly would display. Gay Byrne would have loved Stephen Frys response even while disagreeing with it. That is the kind of interviewer he is. And no other single person in Ireland is more responsible for undermining the choke hold the RCC had on Ireland than that man - despite him being a Catholic himself.  Absolutely, i hope more people see your comment As an American, I was seeing his first reaction and thinking... he's building up to explode and go crazy!!  But then Fry continued and I had to give the guy credit. He kept calm.  Then when he thanked Fry for the answer (and even joked with him), I wept for our (USA) media and how badly we are conditioned for abysmal behavior. 

We've become normalized to gutter behavior.  How sad.  

TY for posting this.  I'll check out more of his stuff.  Standing ovation.  Still standing. Still ovating.  Still ovulating I don't think Fry would give a fuck [However this girl would if she got the chance](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=w1bXy5pSGJE). Props to your username [Am I Right?](http://imgur.com/a/cV3qu#0) [Good god, what have I done.](http://i.imgur.com/cye8sAF.jpg) [deleted] [I think you may be right.](http://i.imgur.com/fcoEbbE.jpg) I have a lot of respect for Stephen Fry. But heck, he just upped that by a few orders of magnitude with that eloquent, rational argument! Does anyone know what bug Stephen is talking about that burrows into the eye? I know there's plenty of amoebas that do, but I haven't heard of bugs. Just curious. It's a kind of worm  naturalist David Attenborough talks about it in the same context, which is where I think Fry got it from: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=osw3a-PYAAc
 This is actually way better than Fry's version.

He explains it very well but in a more nuanced and respectful tone, not to say Fry's isn't bad but I think this version would offend less religous folk and maybe get them to think about it more deeply. Well, Stephen's opinion on people being offended is pretty well known, summed up as "So fucking what if you're offended?"

Sometimes blunt force (so to speak) is needed to shake someone from their comforting lies. You really sure you want to see this? Beware: [Nasty](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nkEkDHOQTLs) That link is staying blue, I'm gonna NOPE out of here. Stephen seeing if he can make his interviewers head explode and loving every second. There is some great reaction gif potential in the interviewer's reactions. [Well I never.](http://i.imgur.com/QNueqNQ.gifv) I love this man. &gt;"And you think you're going to get in on that?"

&gt;"No. But I wouldn't want to."

That's the heart of what makes his argument so compelling. We can't really know, for sure, whether there is a God or not. It might not be super likely, but we can't *know* a God doesn't exist with certainty.

But we can know that if He does exist, we want nothing to do with him. That is as close to an irrefutable argument against God as I can think of. 'on his terms' is the essential part. Not to mention that the go-to answer for the suffering of mankind is "God doesn't do that, Satan makes all the evil, God wants to stop him!", leading to the incredible lapse of logic in why Satan would want to punish sinners who come to hell, instead of building an army of them, or compensating them for job well done.

Satan is a flawed, illogical narrative tool that is meant to keep people on their toes. I prefer Tom Waits' interpretation: *"Boney's high on china white, Shorty found a punk; don't you know there ain't no devil? There's just God when he's drunk."* "The Bible, thats Gods book. As far as I know the Devil hasnt brought out a book, we dont know his side of the argument. If you ask me the Devil and God are having an argument and the Devil is being the bigger man." - Jim Jefferies "For most of my life I've thought the general concept of the devil, as in Satan, was kind of a dumb idea. [...] strictly from a secular analytical, narrative perspective why does an all powerful deity need or even have a vastly less powerful arch-nemesis? [...] He's basically a snarky minion who got demoted to VP of discipline management and acts out by making mischief on earth like a glib, middle-managing Loki. He's not exactly Lex Luthor, he's not even Vegeta, he's Starscream."

-Bob Chipman Satan as a punisher of sinners is itself just an invention of pop-culture, doesn't show up in the bible at all. Biblical stan is trapped down in hell with all the other damned people.  Hit me back, just to chat, truly yours, your biggest fan, this is Stan.  What did Stan do to deserve that? The idea of a guy named Stan in the bible gives me the giggles. Actually isn't the major flaw with the Satan argument that Satan himself is God's creation? If God is both omniscient and omnipotent, then you must consider that God created the angels. Lucifer the fallen angel rebelled against God. He saw God as a tyrant. Well God would have known exactly what creating him would do. He would know exactly what Lucifer would be like, how he would feel, and what he would do. And if he's omnipotent then he should be able to destroy Lucifer just as easily. But apparently he hasn't and is content to let him run free and be the source of all evil.

If he didn't know what Lucifer would be then he's not omniscient. If he can't stop Lucifer then he's not omniscient. If he's neither omniscient nor omnipotent then he is not Godly. If he's both then he's wicked.

This is why you have the cop out answer "God moves in mysterious ways." It's there because you can't reconcile these points logically.

Milton's 'Paradise Lost' has a beautiful portrayal of Lucifer. Lucifer as a character is much more inspiring, and human, and flawed, and understandable than God. God is completely unrelatable. 

Some of the gems attributable to Lucifer from Paradise Lost:

Better to reign in Hell, than to serve in Heaven.
-Basically one of Christopher Hitchen's main objections to monotheism. The idea that if it was true, it would mean the ruin of human dignity. It's total negation. That we are nothing more than slaves, despicable wretches that are created sick and commanded to be well, and in failing to do so we are condemned, hopelessly with no chance of retaliation or defense. We are doomed.

Who overcomes
By force, hath overcome but half his foe. 
Again on that point, that God has only 'defeated' Lucifer to the extent of his banishment. His mind and spirit are indomitable and he'll never accept tyranny.

Questioning the circumstances of Adam and Eve in the Garden of Eden:
Knowledge forbidden?
Suspicious, reasonless. Why should their Lord
Envy them that? Can it be a sin to know?
Can it be death? 
He detests the principle that we creatures (humans) should be mindless - the exact thing religion asks us to be. It insists we should surrender our minds, discard what we already know, give up the one thing that elevates us above animals, the best thing we have, in order to be unquestioning and faithful to God. 

The Paradise Lost Lucifer is an amazing literary figure and is so sympathetic. He gives epic speeches and will win you over. Definitely the most difficult book I've ever read. The language is so old that it requires a huge amount of work to get through but God damn is worth it. [Try this](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLSlLVn6LhLBcFocQvZKtz5sHxooCwPGq0) 1:42 mark http://imgur.com/fwzIkyv [deleted] I think, judging by the way God has acted (on the assumption God exists, of course), God would punish Stephen Fry for saying such things, regardless of the truth in his words.

It's pretty clear God is an incredibly petty deity. God was dreamt up by man, so no wonder he's an evil fuck. Imagine the God of Tigers is pretty fucking evil too, bet he likes to sink claws into flesh. The First Tiger hunts. She hunts the world. She hunts until her hunger is sated, then sleeps. The world quakes with her purr, her belly full and content. When she sleeps, the Bright comes out of hiding, it warms the rocks to keep her asleep. But when The First Tiger awakes, the Bright flees once more. The Lesser creatures, they cannot see without the Bright. They hide too.

The First Tiger stalks. Her breath ruffles our fur, yet we cannot see her. Her roar quakes the world. And her eye stares from the Black, slowly tracking the World. Her teeth and claws rake the horizon, pierce the Land, her spit flows throughout the land as her mouth waters.

One day her Hunt will end. She will roar once more and call all her children. And then, the Tigers will feast. On the Four-Legs. On the Two-Legs. All the Lesser will be our prey. And then we will sleep eternally, our bellies full and our purrs drowning all of creation. &gt;It's pretty clear God is an incredibly petty deity.

It's almost as if this "God" is like a child throwing a tantrum when no one will listen to them, or if they don't get their way. Except, this deity-child can (supposedly) inflict disaster and suffering on their people. It's almost as if this god were invented by barbaric peasants thousands of years ago and doesn't actually exist.

But that can't be true, surely? Ofcourse it can't. And stop calling me Shirley. Then it's no surprise such a religion attracts *people* who frequently throw tantrums when they don't get their way. Exactly. Petty, immature, self-absorbed, and incredibly spiteful. Doesn't sound like anyone I'd want to worship. I don't think Gay Byrne is that kind of guy. He fought hard against the Catholic Church in Ireland to get contraceptives accepted as a positive thing back in the 70's, he's not exactly known for being super religious.  Actually Gaybo (as he is often known) is a deeply religious man, and very serious about it - something that I completely disagree about obviously.
But he has fought against the backward policies of the Church and old Ireland all his life - so he carries a lot of respect for that.
Way back in the 60s and 70s he used his incredibly popular morning radio show and Saturday talk show (both nearly three hours long) to single handedly waging a war on the plight of Irish women who were denied contraception of any kind, divorce and protection against rampant domestic violence.
He shocked the nation when he repeatedly read out on air letters he would receive from women all around the country, and forced Ireland the Irish authorities to face up to their plight.
I grew up with his shows and the man deserves a National Medal of Honour for that he did and achieved. He was and still is a consumate host and interviewer.
Along the way he was fleeced by a corrupt accountant who ran off with all of his accumulated earnings and he had to start again.
In recent years his advancing age has clearly caused him to become more and more reflective and more and more spiritual and religious and he has been involved in a number of tv programs and series that reflect this, as ell as his obsessional support of authoritarian road safety.. I don't like any of it but he is who he is and in my view has earned it. The Meaning of Life has been running for 9 or so series and Gay Byrne is somewhat of a national treasure here. The idea behind the Meaning of Life is that he asks celebrities and other notables these kinds of questions and has received all kinds of answers. Do not assume...

&gt; I'm sure that the interviewer expected

this or anything else about what the interviewer expects. Even a man like Gay Byrne who grew up in Catholic Ireland has said he has gotten less religious as he has gotten older and now doesn't know what to believe.

He wasn't trying to rope Fry into any kind of answer, he was asking Fry that because it's the basis for the show.  I bloody love Stephen Fry. His answer was so excellent I started to get goosebumps. What a champ!  *"When i die, and i find out there is a god responsible for it all, then he will have to beg for MY forgiveness."* Pick one:

1) God enjoys watching people suffer.

2) God is not all seeing and all powerful and he fucked up when he created the world and the evil in it and now he cannot fix it.

3) There is no god. I want to share this so bad.

But all my atheist friends already subscribe here so have probably seen it. If I could have anyone over for a dinner party, it would have to be Stephen Fry. He is just marvelous.  id post this on facebook but i don't have that many friends as it is  A similar quote from similarly eloquent Brit that I love dearly:

I was walking along the bank of a stream when I saw a mother otter with her cubs, a very endearing sight, I'm sure you'll agree. And even as I watched, the mother otter dived into the water and came up with a plump salmon, which she subdued and dragged onto a half submerged log. As she ate it, while of course it was still alive, the body split and I remember to this day the sweet pinkness of its roes as they spilled out, much to the delight of the baby otters, who scrambled over themselves to feed on the delicacy. One of nature's wonders, gentlemen. Mother and children dining upon mother and children. And that is when I first learned about evil. It is built into the very nature of the universe. Every world spins in pain. If there is any kind of supreme being, I told myself, it is up to all of us to become his moral superior.

Terry Pratchett Thank you mr Fry. I send you through my digital hug Damn do I love that man. That was just fantastic to watch. Ohh got a hint of Hitchens in that speech, I miss that dude! Great speech. Craig Ferguson did at least two shows with Stephen as the only guest. One of which was done with no audience in the "old school" Tom Snyder fashion. Both very good interviews.

Here is the 2010 episode with no audience:

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=n9teqCuLL-4

2013 episode with audience:

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A2MoPsBg6m0 I share his views entirely. I was a very sick child and I remember deciding at about age four that I hated god for making me ill. Wasn't long after that I stopped believing completely.  Can someone please make a reaction .gif of 1:41?? My god that was hilarious. [Here you go.](https://gfycat.com/PlasticSoftBagworm) I though I could not love Mr Fry more.

I was wrong. I was genuinely upset when I heard Stephen Fry married his partner. Not because I'm opposed to gay marriage, but because it was only after I Googled it that I learned he's into younger guys and I might have had a chance... I would totally turn for this man. Just give me his head in a jar  la Futurama and I'd be a happy man. Very reminiscent of a Hitchens style answer. If you think Gay was genuinely shocked by Fry's answer - you don't know Gay Byrne. Incredible interviewer and an absolute credit to Ireland. Any reaction from his is only a means to keep the interview going and put the guest at ease.  All I want in life is to wake up every day, have a shower, dress smartly then go to the local caf, sit on my usual table and say: Good morning, Mr Fry! Good morning to you too, Mr Attenborough! What shall we discuss today... Dat interviewers face tho https://www.youtube.com/watch?feature=player_detailpage&amp;x-yt-cl=85027636&amp;v=-suvkwNYSQo&amp;x-yt-ts=1422503916#t=102 Wow, if only I could speak as well as he does... Gay burn indeed. Didn't know about the parasitic insect ocular burrowing. I'd say it's eye opening, but it'd seem inappropriate. Instead, I'll say that while that is the longest answer to the qustion the interviewer has ever gotten, it's one of the most succinct explanations I've ever heard towards atheism. It makes it out to be more than former religious people with an antagonistic mindset, or attackers of something beautiful, out of jealousy. It shows that atheists strive for something, and indeed it's quite a bit more promising and freeing than any argument I've heard on the subject of faith.  Zero comments on the YouTube video. What is this sorcery! Say what you will about the Oxbridge system but one of its outcomes is that its student tend to be able to talk in paragraphs - a series of sentences that coherently argue a point. The very best, like Fry and Christopher Hitchens, argue in verbal essays and that is truly devastating. I am bookmarking the hell out of this, and I'm going to try and put together a transcript so I can memorize it. Steven Fry FTW. /Applause An absolutely brilliant and beautiful answer. What a fucking excellent answer to that question.
I'm stealing it. Could I adopt him as my father? This was how I tried to explain it to my family when I "came out" as Atheist after being raised Christian.  They weren't impressed.  At least I have a legitimate reason for being the black sheep now.   Much of what Stephen Fry is saying at the beginning parrots Ivan Fyodorovich Karamazov from the book The Brothers Karamazov. I'm not saying he isn't incredibly well spoken or intelligent but if you wanted to read more into this argument read chapter four (the rebellion) of the Brothers Karamazov. It's not just human suffering either; animals and insects live significantly lower quality lives than we do. Though, I don't think they're even on Heaven's guest list. I guess they just vanish. If he ever (in the very unlikely event) became a politician, I'd vote for him in a heartbeat. Also congrats to him on marrying his partner Worth noting also that going to heaven when you die is not something from the bible, nor is going to hell when you die as a bad person, so plainly the interviewer does not follow the Word of God either. The heaven/hell stuff has been bolted onto Christianity later and...

...oh fuck it, it's all utter bollocks anyway. "If there is a god, he will have to beg my forgiveness."

- Jewish Holocaust survivor  Man I love Stephen Fry, he's such a decent guy. In UK he is a national treasure. Fry, you beautiful bastard! Reading the Bible as a kid made me realize what a huge asshole God actually is.  I fucking love Stephen Fry so damn much.

As well as being clear-minded and a free thinker, also, in every time I've seen him in visual media, he's as utterly and legitimately nice a person as you can be, and shows truly genuine interest in what people have to say.

It takes a lot for someone to be that humble. And the fact that he has battled with bipolar disorder and even tried to commit suicide once makes it just all the more incredible that he can be so humble and nice! it's a great answer to the question, no doubt, and one that is up to the theists to respond to.

And NO, "god works in mysterious ways" is not acceptable.  You dont' get to say "god is all knowing and all powerful" and then say "suffering is part of his plan".  If he can do anything, he could accomplish any plan without suffering.

Basically, the Abrahamic religions have defined their god in a particular way, and there's no way around the fact that their god is a dick. I like how he was allowed to finish his response. A lot of interviewers these days would just start talking over him  when things got inconvenient. It's Ireland, not the US. Nobody here is religious anymore. judging by the Dawkins appearances on Irish TV I've seen that's just not true What appearances? What was the context of the interview? Was it a debate? Did they involve the kind of religious nuts spouting bollocks that are present in every country?

I have nothing but respect for Richard Dawkins, probably to the point of taking his word as gospel, heh, but a generalization of an entire country based on incorrect information on a certain subject can't be allowed to be spread as fact. I know two people who believe in a god. My mother and my aunt. Nobody else. Tell me that's not true.   https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eBDUPAgy5zk &gt; Nobody here is religious anymore.  
...  
&gt; I know two people who believe in a god.

Contradict yourself much? I know lots of Irish people who are religious - my girlfriend and her immediate family, and my brother-in-law and most of his family. Religion may well be on the decline in Ireland, but to say that nobody here is religious anymore is beyond hyperbole - it's asinine.

&gt; but a generalization of an entire country based on incorrect information on a certain subject can't be allowed to be spread as fact.

Oh, the hypocrisy of it. You really picked the shit out of that comment, didn't you? 

Let's put your religious friends and the friends of mine with minds of their own aside for a minute and assume that what we have both just said was based on the caliber of people we associate with, okay?

 Speaking for myself only this time, at the risk of some other hero trying to make themselves feel good about themselves on a boring Friday night in by calling someone out on what they might think is a slip up, i'll stick by what i said if it's all the same to you. This time though, try to take it that i made an assumption based on the people in my own life (quite a few people mind) and in their immediate relationships that the complete lack of religion, bar TWO people, is a sure sign of a much larger trend. I'm not ignorant, as you'd have yourself believe, I know that in the generations above me the figures would be a bit different and whether church is used more as a social event by them or not is anyone's guess.

People turning away from blind faith is invariably a positive thing and a step forward for a progressive, healthy society and it doesn't usually take very influential people to make others see that. Not sure what that says about you. Maybe you just respect people's choices. Maybe you're just afraid to tell everybody else you know how what they believe is contradictory beyond words, hypocritical and asinine. Maybe you *should* have taken what I said as hyperbole, like a normal person would have done, and left it at that, but this being reddit and all...

I feel like I could make a sweeping generalisation of the world you live in and say that it's full of condescending cunts just based on the tone of your one comment, but that wouldn't be true, would it? Do you think it's acceptable for the world to think that ireland is still the backwards religion plagued shithole from 50+ years ago when it just isn't? Is it the amount of church buildings around that confuse you? 

I'm sure you'll have fun highlighting more little sentences here and gloating over just how great you are at internets but if it'll help you to not act like an absolute tosser then I'll shorten both of them to a simple: 

ALMOST nobody I know is religious. I know there are religious people in Ireland. Ireland is not under the thumb of the catholic church anymore. Some people are under the impression that it is. Tie dyed socks (spelling) is an anagram of dickey tossed... Coincidence? 

Don't be a prick all your life.

 Oh dear. You really are a confused and unpleasant individual, aren't you? It must be embarrassing to be called out on your bullshit, but there's really no need to respond like a butthurt child. The fact that your previous comment contradicts what you originally wrote (no one in Ireland is religious anymore), yet agrees with what I wrote (religion in Ireland is on the decline, but it still exists), suggests that you're more interested in attempting to insult and one-up strangers on the Internet than you are about presenting coherent and consistent arguments. Not at all, I'm the nicest person in the world when I don't have some sad self righteous little man desperately trying to condescend to me over the internet. Tell you what, chief, instead of being the insufferable little shit trolling certain sites to poke holes in people's arguments that you are, take a break from yourself being a hypocrite and give the one upmanship you claim to denounce a rest for a little while. I'm sure the queues and queues of people waiting to give you a nice little pat on the head will still be there when you get back from a stroll I suggest you take while you reevaluate your obnoxious self worth. 

 Is it that you don't remember chiming into this little thread with your unwanted and unnecessary criticisms? I mean, when I replied to this other person's comment, they seemed to understand what I was getting at. They disagreed, fine, but gave an example and left it at that without feeling they had to rape my reasoning just to make themselves feel big. Why couldn't you do that? You could have simply disagreed too but that's not what you did. 

Get a new hobby. 


 Your childish tantrums are both amusing and pitiful.   
Please keep it going. Nice one little man. Can you imagine his response while on the Steve Harvey show? He would have been physically tackled by security.  Damn imagine how this would've gone if bill o'reilly was doing this interview. Stephen wouldn't be able to get a word in Wonderfully put. More eloquent than I was when I explained essentially the same thing when my parents asked "But what if there is a God?" This was incredible.
 Brilliant. Mr. Fry, you're my kinda guy. http://i.imgur.com/ohPFDCt.jpg It's like someone shit'um Bwahahaha, I remember that moment. Byrne made a I smell doodoo face.  That's the first time I boned up for a gay man. Brilliant.  thanks doc :D You too dok ;-) &gt; That sure is the longest answer to that question that I've ever gotten in this entire series.

Well, no shit, it's because Fry has clearly *thought about it.* The only thing I would add is, when you accept that reality is random, rather than purposeful, that the injustices seem like problems to be solved, rather than built in features of existence. Thank you for posting this! It's really satisfying to see a public figure like Stephen Fry talk about God so eloquently like this because this is one of the main arguments I have against religion and why I would not want anything to do with worshiping an entity like "God." Wonderful, just wonderful. That's why I love Mr Fry; so eloquent, thoughtful and a beautifully reasoned argument.   It would have been past the point of the question posed, as the assumption is that God does exist, but to his point can go further. Once you get past the need of a god existing, the same horrors you find in the world around us still are horrible, but are much more understandable in context. Parasites, cancer, terrible events, all are not made to punish or torture us by some sick cosmic mind, but are just part of the natural world. Fry seems like a smart bro. You don't know the half of it! He's often referred to as a polymath. Was one half of a comedy duo called 'Fry and Laurie'. The other guy is Hugh Laurie aka 'House' from the TV series of the name. You should check out Stephen Fry's TV series QI

https://www.youtube.com/user/TheQIElves Once again underlining what an awesome man Stephen Fry really is. Anyone know what insect he's talking about? The disease is probably onchocerciasis ("river blindness"). While the cause of the disease is a parasitic worm, it is spread by fly bites. According to [wikipedia](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Onchocerciasis), it's the second most common cause of blindness from infection in the world. (Trachoma is the most common, but is bacterial) I would have preferred he didn't make the specification about children in regard to that as I doubt that what ever insect it was distinguishes between ages of human. the part about children is necessary.

it points out how the natural world makes no distinction for the age of the person when these horrible things can happen when many (of course not all) humans who would commit terrible acts would not harm children. It shows how there are humans who have a higher sense of empathy that this so called creator.

Generally people care for the wellbeing of children more than the christian god does. True.   You are right.  There is an ugly and powerful logic in this cartoon that really hits on the massive ignorance of the shooters. There is also a healthy dose of wishful thinking that they have some sense of the injustice of their actions.  I doubt any of these terrorists would feel compelled to justify themselves with a "he drew first;" they feel that they are meting out justice rather than perverting it. Certainly. I agree. I find days like today hard to maintain a sense of right when all I want to do is erase the violent and ignorant but I feel like that would be embracing the absolute ideas that they themselves are reveling in tonight. It's sad to think humans aren't very good about living in big groups civilly. Violence used to be a very effective tool to get your way, at least in the short and mid run, and sometimes even the long run. This is thankfully becoming much less the case, but usually for simple practical reasons like, If I invade the neighboring country it will be economic if not physical armageddon for my country.

Even if Germany got super tired of Frances shit (like existing) again, they couldn't really declare war for practical reasons, not because they wouldn't want to.

Most real conflict happens in marginal countries these days simply because wrecking them doesn't really ruin the day of wealthy countries. Meters gonna mete.  I hope the people that shot those innocent folks feel the emotional pain of every person affected by their death, and the physical pain of death itself.

Edit: Yarr, there be Atheism+ beyond this comment. Don't bother reading any further. They wont feel shit. They think what they did was justice.  We need...

Ghost Rider. I hope they get curbstomped on youtube I do too... but that would be for me to acknowledge an inerrant logic and understanding of fellow man on people who believe absolutely (or acted as such) that people should die because of a disagreement. I'm personally tired of religion and perceived morality.  They brought it beyond a simple disagreement. They deserve nothing but a long and slow painful death. That's not how "evolving" works. You may be hanging out in the wrong spot. This area is not "Exchange Godfilled Hate and Right for Godless Hate and Right."

This is just the spot for people who don't believe in God.

Today was just hate and ignorance. It doesn't matter what side you are on. Murder is wrong. Go home. Well, we still have death sentences for people like that, and to be honest I wouldn't feel bad about it as long as they got the right guys. And it's still better than life-long solitary confinement, which would be needed to prevent them from killing any more people. &gt; And it's still better than life-long solitary confinement

In what ways? Social isolation can have severe psychological effects, and solitary confinement is even considered a form of torture (https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Solitary_confinement#Torture). I can imagine why. Just think about sitting indefinitely in a room alone with nothing to do, no social interaction whatsoever, and sensory deprivation. I'd rather be dead than having to suffer that fate. Now I might be the wrong person to ask as I'd rather die than sit in normal prison my whole life long, but you can probably imagine that life-long solitary confinement is something one does not want to experience.

So to answer your question. It's better in all ways. Really. I still wouldn't feel bad about "cold-blooded" murderers to sit in solitary confinement forever as long as we are 100% sure that they are not innocent. Tilt your fucking nose down a little bit, and get real. Excuse me for not mentioning atheism in the two sentences I wrote. If you don't share the same sentiment, use the scroll bar or click the back button. Stopping at my post to tell me to "go home" makes you look like a prick. He's got a point.  Your "they did something bad and they deserve to die" logic is not that much different from theirs. Oh alright. Let them live and continue to kill and never feel or understand the pain they brought upon others.  If only there was a third option, like some kind of building where we could put people who have done bad things. A lot of prisoners convert to Islam behind bars.
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Conversion_to_Islam_in_U.S._prisons
Do you think it is a good idea to send them there to reinforce their beliefs and spread their religion to other weak-minded folks? It is the most vile of all religions. 

I don't believe just anyone should be killed. I believe there is very good reason that the people who carried out the murders earlier today in France, do not deserve to share a space with anyone else on this planet and our best option is to make sure that they don't.

If only there was a fourth option. Shoot them into space! Calm down bro, calm down. Do you have a few moments to talk about our lord and savior, Jesus Christ? Maybe some of these anti-west clerics who get to live comfortably in the UK and other places in Europe should be treated the way they preach, show them how little tolerance we have left. Maybe, but that hasn't worked yet. Though you are probably that fckinguy, I still think eye for an eyes is the bridge the killers want to sell you. Don't buy it bub. Draw an "offensive" cartoon and smile kindly at a hajab'd girl instead. Be a human, not an animal. [deleted] All I am saying is I just retired after 20 years in the military with trigger time on a contrived war we never needed to fight. 99% of the people that will die are not the one's making the decisions. When you aim at perceived "beliefs" that must pay then one day you we be the one who is hunted. I'm going to not kill people for making cartoons and not kill the family of people who killed people for making cartoons. If you can find JUST the guys who killed people? Fine. Kill 'em. But I am tired of 100k dead because no one fucks with my boys etc. You want to talk about the stick? Pick the fucking thing up and put your family at risk. Then tell me about the stick you want others to swing. I swung that ugly bitch for half my life and it is a racket of the corporations. Fuck that. Sorry for the venom. /rant.  Right,  I mean...  I upvoted. But I wanted to down vote on principle.  :( 338 people don't know what satire means Wow really? Thank you for explaining how satire works  Does using extra sarcasm increase your enjoyment? If so... re-read. Here's a tissue. You're welcome. Sticks and stones may break my bones but holy shit cartoons, I better kill them before they get me I'm glad that the headspace i'm in can't comprehend the logic of killing someone due to this type of situation.   I'm not a smoker, a drinker, and some other (potentially) unhealthy habits but god damn am I not a person who thinks, "Hmmm infidel made a cartoon mocking my religion, I must kill them."  Christ.   Really? CNN will not show the cartoons of Charlie Hebdo? They don't want to inflame the situation by taking the side of the people who think freedom of speech is right, and that killing innocent civilians indiscriminately is wrong, apparently.  More likely they don't want to piss off the hornets nest and have to deal with the fallout of having reporters, cartoonists, etc murdered because some asshat can't pull their heads out of the 1400's. So, giving in to terrorism then. What a great opportunity for Fox News to look more American than CNN. All the rage these days, just ask Sony.
 I'd suggest you leave this kind of simplistic thinking to the religious. And I feel that by failing to do so, it gives terrorists a sense of success. They were able to scare the world and the large media outlets are afraid to provoke them because it may lead to something similar. What we needed was for Fox, MSNBC, CNN, and others to show these cartoons that these people made that got them killed. They failed to do so, and if this trend continues, the terrorists win and everyone who dies trying to stand up to them does so in vain It's real easy to say that when you don't have anything at stake.  For CNN, etc to do that, it's a lot more complicated.  Do they provide protection for all their workers?  Are they willing to deal with the lawsuits if they were attacked?  You are trivializing a very difficult decision. This seems to capture it pretty good: http://3.bp.blogspot.com/-NW5eT_hqDto/UG3uhU2rgoI/AAAAAAAABhM/S8VJq5D77AU/s1600/snake+baiting.jpg I'm sure I saw a video earlier of CNN showing it? Haven't seen it on BBC news though over here. Charlie is a small independent publication and everyone who worked there knew and accepted the risks.

I'm not sure the same can be said of every single one of the thousands of people who work for CNN. https://twitter.com/davpope/status/552844593046097920/photo/1 That sounds like a joke the terrorists would tell each other. Terrorist don't joke. They have no sense of humor. 40 underage virgins is serious business. 72 Damn. I wanted 73. Guess I won't be committing jihad :( Never understood why they want virgins. I would be much more willing to fuck 72 girls that know what they're doing.  "53 fucking virgins! The very thought of 53 fucking virgins, it's a nightmare! It's not a fucking present, it's not a prize- it's a punishment! Give me 2 fire-breathing whores any day of the week. I'm a slut man!"

--Billy Connolly I thought it was 72 *grapes*.  Who wants to fuck a grape?

(I heard this once, that "grapes" is a valid translation. Maybe it should be "olives" instead, and "extra virgin.") Dude your triggering me. Grape rape is a serious issue. [Grapist?](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SZoiJM1vlfc) Analgrapist... Indeed, young Grapes should be careful if strangers offer them drinks...
http://www.hoepfner.de/biere/biere_imgs12/hoepfner_grape_03.jpg I've heard similar. It was allegedly either grapes or white raisins (can't remember).  If anyone needs a source on this, Christopher Hitchens mentioned it in "God is not Great".

 Good enough for Mohammed good enough for them [relevant](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lhmwcmOPemk) RIP Where are these guys going, anyway? A World of Warcraft convention?

Har-har-har! (I can say that, I used to play WoW) There is a fad with virgins in conservative societies, not just Muslims. I come from India, Hindu conservatism is pretty loud here and "virginity" is deal breaker in arranged marriage among other things. It's ridiculous.

I am still a virgin at 19 (male), reason? Girls need to be very apprehensive about this. I'm much more likely to have sex with someone who's not a virgin as I will most likely enjoy it more. For one thing the first experience is more memorable thus they want to be the only one in their memories. Partially so there is no disappointment or anything remembered of other men

Another thing is some people want to be the teachers 

Another reason , and most likely the biggest reason is that non virgins are unclean and much less valuable. There are a few reasons I can think of why they might want virgins:

* Evolutionary desire to know they are the father of the offspring with their partner
* Help to ensure a partner free from STIs
* And, my personal favorite: they are insecure about their sexual abilities - if she's a virgin then the sex she has with them would necessarily be the best sex she's ever had!

That doesn't mean that they are good reason.  Having a strong, trusting relationship with good communication and taking advantage of modern contraception and medicine should go a long way for handling the first two concerns.  And really, if you both communicate about needs and desires in bed, then you're on the right path to having good sex. They don't want virgins, they just want little girls lik Mahomet. Little girls tend to be virgins. But wanting virgins sounds less like you're an actual pedophile.  I'm sure you could work it our in the contract. you will make it 73 Its ok, that count didnt include you. Ouchie. Right in the gut I knew my assumption was right. Its a bit lower than your gut sir/mam Well a punch in the vagina isn't a painful as a gut punch.

Why the low blow though, bro? :c &gt;Well a punch in the vagina

--

&gt;Why the low blow though, bro? :c

Think of it as a verbal fisting to help  you imagine what you'll never have.

^^=P

 72 virgins seems awful stingy for an eternity. Especially after you consider that you will have 0 virgins after about 30 days or so They're magical perma-virgins. Well, Allah can apparently replenish the skin of infidels every day to burn over and over again, soooooo. Having to go slowly for eternity and deal with uncomfortableness and maybe bleeding?! 


Wait, they're ISIS. They arent going slowly and blood is probably what they want. Quality over quantity. And it's raisins, not virgins.  Boy are they going to be pissed! Pretty much as they just cut the head off a street performer. They don't have a sense of humour Allah is afraid of women, words, ideas, cartoons, and even lunch one month a year.

Allah is a lie and Muhammad was his liar. Don't forget dogs, and feet. Not to mention alcohol. And humor in general.  &gt;A German man approached a comedian and asked, "Why don't you think we Germans have lost our sense of humor?"

&gt;He answered truthfully, "Because you killed all the funny people."

This classic joke shamelessly lifted to make the point of why there are few comedians left alive or unimprisoned in Muslim countries.
 Oh crap, I'm afraid of feet. Am I part Muslim? You're part Allah... You might be. How do you feel about dogs? I love dogs. There are 3 on my bed right now.  You can give me the feet and the dogs. All the reddit karma I could make from /r/feet^nsfw and /r/aww What a great meme.  I love it.  Thank you.  I salute Reddit and the community for allowing one to express such truths without fear.   *tips le turban* Nice! dank as fuck I'd even say nice. What a weak little god it is.  He. Fictional or not, the deity is very clearly gendered, so using the wrong pronoun is just being petty for the sake of it. Have you seen the balls on Allah?

Neither has  anyone else. Calling that dickless deity "manly" debases the concept of manhood. I wasn't aware that possession or lack of testicles is what makes a man. Poor Lance Armstrong... Only half a man... As a demiurge-kin... Pearl clutching intensifies.

"Cmon guys, insult him in any manner you like except the one that I don't like.  Because that's petty."

QQ more It's not human, it's not mammalian, it's not any kind of animal. To call it a 'he' would be horribly inaccurate.  Skipping lunch and gorging yourself for dinner? I do that all the time.  Terrorist! I sense another crusade out of this.  No need.  Islam destroyed what was once one of the greatest centers of learning in the world.  

Now, the only reason anyone cares about the middle east is oil.  
When that runs out, or we end our need for it, the west's need to give a damn will end.

They'll go back to their blood soaked deserts...unless they themselves rise up and free themselves.   Well put.  If we can teach toddlers, "No hitting. Use your words", why is this so hard for radical religious types to understand? Because the radicals were taught to kill the infidel. You've got to be carefully taught. They aren't grown up enough to hear what we think When I started seeing the headlines I just said to myself "please tell me the shooters weren't atheist extremists, *please* tell me the shooters weren't atheist extremists."

*reads the articles*

"Thank **god** the shooters weren't atheist extremists! They belonged to some religion called... how is it spelled... Islam." Which god though? Thanking the wrong one may get you shot.

I think Thor is a pretty cool god. Eh kills aleins and doesnt afraid of anything Has his own day. It was Wednesday, so probably Odin. Honestly when I tell my holier than art thou family(extended) that I prefer the old pagans gods, Thor, Odin, Freya etc. they look at me like I have six heads and breath fire. I then tell them all the gods I like want from me is to have a good party and occasionally sacrifice to them, I don't sacrifice but I do pray to the respective gods, Thor when I travel, especially by air. While their particular version of Christianity asks them to flip the fuck out and have a fit. My family get togethers are great now that I think of it. &gt; I think ~~Thor~~ mjollnir is a pretty cool god. Eh ~~kills aleins~~ hammers lihgtning and doesnt afraid of anything did you see that coward reza aslan pathetically tweet regarding the events today?

&gt;How weak must your faith in God be if you think God needs you to defend Him,  you irrelevant little man?

that's funny, could've said the same about him.  

 how weak must his mind be to find comfort not in real life but in a super natural father, the arrogant self righteous twat. Fuck his comfort. His delusions are destructive, I don't give a fuck how comforting they are. He wallows in cognitive dissonance, desperately trying to find any way to twist words that justifies the garbage he believes in, for no reason other than to give himself comfort - "fuck the truth, fuck the world, fuck all the victims of Islam, MY comfort matters more than any of them!" 

This guy is a selfish, lying, childish pedant who needs to grow the fuck up.  dam straight hear her Of course CJ Werleman follows up with a huge list of ridiculous excuses and explanations for the attack and links to an article which compares the cartoons to racist portrayals of African Americans. He dismisses one terrorist as "not really religious" (based on the fact that his lawyer said this in 2005 when he was previously arrested for terrorism) and CJ says they were probably all just reading "Islam for Dummies" (after one ISIS recruit was found with a copy of this, CJ repeatedly used this to make the claim that extremists are not true, Quran reading Muslims.) He then provides several rationalizations for the attack, including prisoner treatment at Gitmo and because of anti Islamic prejudice in France. Did it ever occur to CJ that even if this guy was "not really religious" in 2005, there is a chance his extremist views could have increased over the period of a decade? It is pathetic seeing him bend over backwards and grasp for imaginary straws, but coming from someone who tweeted that he would prefer to be in the company of jihadis because it would guarantee he wasn't in the presence of any "new atheists", no surprise whatsoever that he reveals his ignorance once again. [deleted] Don't forget his "sophistication" lol. He pretty much stole that quote from the new Indian movie PK. The main character pretty much says, "Were so insignificant, how do you think you would be able to protect god?" That's why there's so much controversy in India about the movie. People don't like having their religion question. Don't mind me, I just dropped by to type a cathartic *"fuck those motherfuckers".*  Thanks, that felt good. Fuck those motherfuckers. 
 I couldn't have said it better myself. Islam, religion of peace indeed. Of pieces you mean  That is so clever and on point. Sadly. This is the first time I've been actually saddened I could only give one up vote. The pen truly is mightier than the sword.

Just a sad, sad, day.  Tout qu'ils faisaient tait parler,  l'air

Free speech means there's no crime in speaking to the air or drawing on the ground Fucking people Context please? In Paris 11 people got killed and 10 got wounded.  They drew an image of mohammad being naked on his knees and something stuffed in his asshole. 
 
This drawing just says it all of how Islam is  Gunmen believed to be Islamic extremists attacked the offices of Charlie Hebdo, a French satirical magazine known for its nonconformist and often irreverent take on news. The motive is most likely linked to a recent cartoon published by Charlie Hebdo featuring Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi, the leader of Islamic State. Je suis Charlie. Nous sommes tous Charlie. Vive la France! Islam.. religion of peace indeed This is amazing. It needs to be seen by everyone. Are they up on Wikipedia yet? are what up? yes I could be a bit complacent or whatever in my thoughts, but I don't see this as being so much about religion as it is about being a weak minded fuck with no back bone. Yes, they were mad about Muhammed being depicted in physical form within the comics...but really it was retaliation of being made fun of in satire form. The pussies can't take a fucking joke. Yay, An artist from my home town David Pope from the Canberra Times. What a extremely powerful sketch.  On a not very related note, how was this drawn tomorrow? (date says 8.1.15 or 1.8.15 in U.S. date order).  
edit: apparently the artist is Australian and tweeted this out in the early AM of the 8th in Australia. maybe it was drawn to be published tomorrow?  This makes sense. People telling me its the 8th there already was false, it only became the 8th in France about an hour ago. I appreciate a rational and logical response. It's been 2015-01-08 here (Brisbane) for 10 hours and 37 minutes. The guy that drew it is Australian.  Because it isn't the 7th around the entire world. Right now it's the 8th in France, I guess it's the same in numerous other countries :) 8 hours ago this was posted. It became the 8th in France an hour and a half ago at the time this comment was made. This comic was not drawn on the 8th. The guy is Australian, it was signed/drawn on the 8th. I can't help but think that if more people had guns instead of cameras, instead of filming their rampage, someone could have put a premature end to it and these fuckers wouldn't still be out on the loose. Can you care to explain what gun you would have to carry to take on multiple attackers with AK-47? Can you care to explain what kind of emotional situation an ordinary citizen is in when bullets are flying from AKs to take on well trained terrorists who may be there to actually commit a suicide attack? Can you explain how many people who are not in the immediate vicinity of the attack, but close enough to see the attack with out being in harms way, would run with their gun blazing and jump into the action which may actually get them killed? As you can see in the video, they are on the roof. High ground. You can also see the attackers sweeping and clearing the street. They never once look up. also, the distance appears to be between 15-25 meters. Anyone on that roof with a pistol could have dropped one or both of them.

And I am not saying everyone should have guns you moron. All it takes is one semi-skilled person with a pistol on that roof to end it. You'd have the drop on them easily, and also, you'd be firing from such an extreme top-down angle that any armor they might be wearing is likely to be bypassed.

Also, from such an advantageous position, the attackers had very little cover, and from the roof, you have tremendous coverage.

If I had a weapon and not a camera at that position, I would have engaged them, or at least kept them pinned down from getting back to their vehicle. Should fix that date though.
 You know that's how most people write the date outside of the US, right? As a European, yeah.

I was talking about the fact the events took place on the 7th.

It's like writing "Happy New Year!" and dating it with 2/1/2015 Ah, I see.  Sorry for assuming.  I didn't think about that aspect, I just figured that it was already the 8th wherever this was drawn. Yes, you figured right. Yeah it's already 01:40 in Belgium on the 8/1/2015 Believe the creator is in Australia so the date is correct for him. You win. Even though the events took place in Paris, the author wanted to make sure everyone knew it was already the 8th of January in Sydney. He wrote the date when he drew it where he drew it. What else do you expect?  They drew first blood. How fragile your god must be if a cartoon can harm it. Grow up, it is cute when kids gave imaginary friends, it is sad when adults have them. Well apparently you never read the bible or any other holy book.

God is extremely insecure about himself!

Do you know about the 10 commandments? checkup the first few commands :P You do know that the god of the bible and the Koran are the same. Have you read the Ten Commandments? They start on exodus 34 and are very different from what most people think. At one point they talk about the matrix.  Could we all please be logical and reasonable and not blame an entire religion on the actions of a minority of extremists? 8.1.15??????
Are you a fucking time traveler????? .o Outside of the US the day is written first In Sweden it's usually yymmdd. Always baffled me. It's like writing the minutes before the hour when writing out the time.  Day - month - year, in ascending order. It's the American way of writing it that is odd, with the lowest denomination in the middle.  That's... one of the stupidest comparisons I've ever read. Yeah, except that's *tomorrow's* date... Or you know,  that's the date in Australia where the cartoon was made Yeah, my guess is that the stuff that's printed in tomorrow morning's papers is actually constructed today?  I know, amazing idea, isn't it? Artists generally don't date their creation with the date it is to be exhibited, they date it on the day of its creation. What you're referring to is a date of edition.

Regardless, the whole point is moot because OP was making a *joke*, (I know, amazing idea isn't it?) And the person responding thought he was talking about the date format. All I was doing was explaining the joke when everyone started downvoting me. I didn't downvote you.  I don't care what they say; I'll always love you. Well I didn't downvote you either, so I guess we have that going for us, which is nice. He's just living in the future, it's already past 7 in the morning in Australia. Date to be published? Oh my god they knew this was gonna happen since August?!?!!? CONSPIRACY !!!! August 1st, 2015? You mean, from the future?! :O *MODIFIED CONSPIRACY !!!!! It bothers me that that could be a cop just as easily. Because of all the cartoonists the cops have shot? Stupid. Cops have shot a lot of people. I wouldn't be surprised if at least a few were cartoonist. Statistically possible.  Wot? that that You're an idiot. The comments you can find on this fucking sub sometimes. WHOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOSH. This doesn't have anything to do with atheism.  How does it suit your ego knowing you're off base? What does this have to do with atheism? Read the FAQ and kindly refrain from tone trolling.  Now we all know you are a /pol/ack OP. we liked millions of nazis for being fucking crazy, is it ok if we kill millions of religious people if they are as this crazy? we liked millions of nazis? :D We're atheist's. How could you nazi us worshipping hitler. He has a distinct lack of baby eating on record, so, he doesn't seem that trustworthy to me. It is our hope, on /r/atheism, to convince people of the error of their ways without having to actually kill them, but I would make an exception for certain people, such as those who assassinate cartoonists. i know, i hope that it comes to that, but those who killed the cartoonists or the ones from ISIS or the jews that kill palestines for fun or the other way around deserved to be run down to the end of the earth till they die. Always nice to add just a bit of illiterate anti-Semitism to any discussion! Mel Gibson, get out of here! People say that, but the argument is somewhat tempered by the whole "firing loads of crap rockets at Israeli civilians while pointing at the other side who are attacking where the rockets were launched from" thing.

Also, anyone who just random insults Jews comes across as sounding a little bit cranky. &gt;Khalifa plays up her Muslim heritage in her movies, sometimes wearing a hijab and sporting heavy eyeliner to emphasize her exotic look.

What tripe. She has done this  for a combined total of 1 video. But she's not muslim. She ~~is a~~ was born to a Christian family and supports the lebanese christian party called "lebanese forces". Im on my phone i can link later. Also i am lebanese and khalifa is a big Christian family

Edit: [link](http://www.newsweek.com/meet-mia-khalifa-lebanese-porn-star-who-sparked-national-controversy-297023) This. So many people writing about her recent popularity cant seem to understand the fact that not all Lebanese are Muslims. I imagine she is not using her real name. Does a female, Muslim porn star moan "Allahu Akbar!, Allahu Akbar!, Allahu Akbar!" when she's gettin' it good in a scene?

That started out as a joke question, but by the time I got to the question mark, it became legit. I have researched the subject thoroughly on your behalf. She does not.  I researched it for a couple of minutes, got really excited and now I have lost interest, maybe I'll research more in an hour *Cleanup on row qwerty.* more like the space bar. Ha!   
I'm so stealing this..  Let's research it again I can legit conduct two good research pieces in a day, up to 6 if quality is not an issue.

 That's fine, just don't save any specimens Be honest... You did though right?  I did google it though, so, brownie points?  Nah I'm actually more of a tori black kinda girl and I have assignments due and shit.  Nah, they won't. I speak arabic and i am arab myself. They would probably say " ah" instead of "oh" and "yalahwy" instead of "oh my god". That's in the egyptian dialect. I'm not sure about other dialects but as an arab myself, i can't seem to imagine dirty talk in arabic at all. if i do it's very awkward and funny &gt; if i do it's very awkward and funny

go on... this is a very interesting linguistics thing. I dated a girl who spoke Cantonese and was adamant that it was a very unsexy language. But the girls I've known who speak Spanish was the opposite. Dutch, also not sexy but that as just to me. French? I can't make up my mind What does yalahwy mean? It's kinda like " oh my god "
We say it when something usually bad  or good happens or when we're in shock. Like if someone gets extremely good grades which is something he didn't expect, He might start repeating " yalahwy " because he can't believe it. When i think about intercourse with an arabic person, that's the only thing that could be used(in my opinion) without sounding awkward or funny. If she ends up saying "give it to me" i will burst out of laughter.  Thanks. Personally, I think a lot of dirty talk sounds pretty silly in English as well, especially during sex.  Haha, maybe. I might think it's not as silly due to abundance of porn in english, so i got to see it. Maybe i'll bang an arab girl and a non arab girl and see which one gets me laughing more haha The answer? In none ive seen, but damn do i want to see it. Not even as just as humorous thing. I would fap viciously to the cia anally interrogating a female muslim *terrorist* and her obviously a terrorist too mother.


^^^^^^I ^^^^^^realized ^^^^^^how ^^^^^^the ^^^^^^dark ^^^^^^humour ^^^^^^im ^^^^^^displaying ^^^^^^here ^^^^^^may ^^^^^^be ^^^^^^misinterpreted, ^^^^^^so ^^^^^^Im ^^^^^^putting ^^^^^^this ^^^^^^disclaimer ^^^^^^here ^^^^^^to ^^^^^^explain ^^^^^^its ^^^^^^a ^^^^^^critique ^^^^^^of ^^^^^^the ^^^^^^not ^^^^^^very ^^^^^^accurate ^^^^^^methods ^^^^^^of ^^^^^^the ^^^^^^cia ^^^^^^in ^^^^^^apprehending ^^^^^^targets. I too love a good "rectal feeding" That has like 440,000,000 views It is indeed very popular because of the controversy.  PROBABLY not only because of this....just a guess But that was a GOOD video! The goodest  Yeah, tripe just about sums it up. And that exactly one video is where they ripped the image for this report from. There was no need for them to get race-baitey and sensationalist with her career. 
 She's not even Muslim American. She's a Christian Arab American. And she's smoking hot.  Me likey. It can't be easy for them with all the porn filters and such.

As a Scotsman it's simple, if I want to see some boobs I can just go online. If I want to see some cunts, well, there's regular public transport to England

Edit: Wow! 1st gold and it's for abusing the [Sassanachs](http://www.urbandictionary.com/define.php?term=Sassanach) good times! Slinte mhaith! (cheers) I'm not surprised you need to come down here to see some cunts. Especially when you only provide public toilets for men and Scottish men.

EDIT: Much like my fellow British compatriot above me. This too is my first reddit gold, except it's for abusing the Jocks instead. Ta very much, kind stranger. My local has a "Ladies" and a "Laddies" just for the tourist lols. Tourists? In Scotland? Now you are taking the piss. He said Tourist - the name of the Scottish tourist is Steve. There is always a Steve! And an Alan. Alan! Alan! Al! Alan!  WHAT? I'm fucking busy It's only fucking snow, Alan. Oh, look at the berries... City council in Dundee has been trying to fool us for decades that we are a tourist hot spot The only tourists who go to Dundee are lost tourists. American here. I think I'm lost.

Halp. This is basically British humour in a nutshell. Everyone generally takes the piss out of, well, everyone. Insert Trainspotting scene of American tourist in bar. Looked but couldn't find it. Over here in Iran a lot of sites are blocked (reddit, facebook, youtube, spotify, last.fm, imdb), so we pretty much all have proxies/VPNs anyways. Why bother travelling when there's the UK Parliament channel on freeview? :) As a Kiwi, I've gotta say I'm pretty jealous of your easy access to cunts. Australia's a bloody three-hour plane ride from here. Don't you have all those sheep? We've found the Shropshire lad! I'd have thought he was from Wales.  Do you think that a person from [Louisiana](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Eqfdn8_ftYQ) would be able to get by in Scotland using English? I wonder this often.  Ah dinnae ken, gadgie.

Seriously though, we'd understand you but perhaps not vice versa. Edinburgh your fine. Glasgow fifty fifty. Outer Hebrides? Nobody knows what the fuxk they're saying. I can only understand the dialogue in Trainspotting with the aid of subtitles.  I read the book, it's takes a few dozen pages to get it, then all the sudden it becomes crystal clear. For the next couple months, you do all your thinking in Edinburgh slang. All his books are like that, and you also find yourself using the words "fuck" and "cunt" (and probably some combination of the two) a lot more than usual, since they are about every third word.  You want a mind fuck, read the [Marabou Stork Nightmares](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Marabou_Stork_Nightmares). I read every comment you made in the voice of *Billy Connolly* Not a fucking chance.

Source been to both.  Both places I couldn't understand the english the native taxi drivers were speaking.  I can only imagine it would be twice as worse if they tried to communicate with each other.  But who knows, they might understand each other perfectly and I'm the problem. Twice as worse ya bum! Well, considering the guy is speaking mostly cajun French rather than English...

When he's speaking English, he sounds about like the lady. 


I had no trouble understanding either of them but I'm originally from the area, so there's that 


Edited because I totally blanked the first few seconds of the conversation.  Fuck off ya mars bar frying bastards As an Englishman - FUCK YOU!


As someone with a sense of humour - I've never laughed so much at being insulted.   We can take a joke too. Here's my favourite:

Why do Scotsmen have blue cocks?

Because they're tightfisted wankers! Upvote from a Scot, that's a decent one. Never realized how close Scots Gaelic and Gaelige are, I was confused when you said you were Scottish and typed in Irish. I'm pretty sure it *is* a more typically Irish spelling.  "Sl****inte mh**a**th", being more typically Scottish. &gt; If I want to see some cunts, well, there's regular public transport to England

I like you. Hey :(  "Pakistan leads the way in porn searches for animals like pigs, donkeys, dogs, cats and snakes."

Snake porn? I can't imagine how that is physically possible... Like a really long condom? Did you know that Bill Brasky once used a live rattlesnake as a condom? [To Bill Brasky!](http://i.imgur.com/XRsD5vt.gif) Brasky got his wife pregnant and she gave birth to a delicious 16-ounce steak. The afterbirth was sauteed mushrooms. I hope they at least take the fangs out first. It doesn't say which gender is involved in which way with each.

Seeing that "eel porn" is a thing, I'd imagine that snake porn would go a similiar way. C'mon, [snakes have 2 penes](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hemipenis)! (NSFW: Links to [exactly what you'd expect](http://cdn1.arkive.org/media/7C/7C7E7A2A-0B56-4C9D-92E0-AE846D36E902/Presentation.Large/Hemipenis-of-male-adder-.jpg)
.) How is that nsfw? Your boss is  fine with Reddit but snake penises is where he draws the line? From "Generation Kill"

Cpl. Ray Person: Look at this shit, how come we can't ever invade a cool country, like chicks in bikinis, you know, how come counties like that don't ever need Marines, I'll tell you why, **it's lack of pussy that fucks countries up, lack of pussy is the root fucking cause of all global instability**, if more hajis were getting quality pussy, there'd be no reason for us to come over and fuck em up like this, cause a nutbusting haji, is a happy haji.


Sgt. Brad 'Iceman' Colbert: Ray, how much ripped fuel have you ingested.


Cpl. Ray Person: I'm on it like a mother fucker Brad, haha!...


Sgt. Brad 'Iceman' Colbert: Well, no more of that shit...

Evan 'Scribe' Wright: An interesting theory though.

Cpl. Ray Person: Yeah, yeah, you should quote me on it, you know what, you should definitely quote me on it, this whole thing comes down to pussy! Look, if you take the Republican Guard and comp their asses for a week in Vegas, no fucking war!

Evan 'Scribe' Wright: So the war is not about oil or WMDs.

Cpl. Ray Person: No, in the opinion of this Marine, its about pussy.

Evan 'Scribe' Wright: And its not about Saddam.

Cpl. Ray Person: No, Saddam is just part of the problem, if Saddam invested more in the pussy infrastructure of Iraq than he did in his fucking gay ass army, then this country would be no more fucked up than say, Mexico.  Jesus, there may be more truth in that then most people would care to admit  A lot more. It's actually a point made by some feminist theorists, interestingly. When the male-to-female ratio of a society gets too high, the the society will be more violent and militaristic.

The paper couched it in terms of "too many young unmarried men cause trouble," but really it boils down to "pussy shortage makes men angry."

EDIT: Maybe it's not exactly "feminist" so much as sociological. But here's the paper: https://docs.google.com/file/d/0B7NsBPUxnA4Mb1lGRmFUamNoenM/edit?pli=1 Could this be nature balancing itself out? A militaristic society likely leads to war, and in war men die at a higher rate than women, on a battlefield anyway. It's almost like this frustration and rage leads to evening the ratio out.  After WWII there were seven times more women in the USSR than men, and the Soviet is a success story!

Edit: the 7:1 ratio is not correct, follow the comments for OPEC link. In Soviet Russia the brides mail order you!     &gt;Soviet success

    &gt;No longer soviet Is that true? There must be some interesting literature on how this impacted society, do you know of any?

But to get back on point, they weren't saying having a high female-to-male ratio was good either. Also the Soviet Union didn't break down for like 70 years, they had a good run at it considering all the bad decisions they made :p It doesn't seem to be accurate: http://opec.ru/en/1560301.html

"In 1959 the imbalance of men and women was the most marked at 641 to 1000." My guess is the simpler version is that all animals fight when there are scarce resources, be it water, food, or mates. Humans are no different. Not really the same thing though. Doesn't matter what the ratio is if it's practically impossible to get with them due to your religion. True. Sexual frustration causes men to be more aggressive. [deleted] I believe Orwell said it best in "1984" War fever is just sex gone sour. Growing up in a muslim-american household and witnessing first hand the strong divide between genders, yeah the sexual repression is fucked up. I can only imagine how much worse it is in muslim countries.

Oh and then this sexual repression is used as a weapon. You get an uneducated teenage boy from a village in Afghanistan, with all of this pent up sexual energy, and then tell him that if he fights for your army and dies, he will go to heaven and have all of the virgin pussy he can desire. Strap a bomb on his chest and give him his pussy.  I miss that series. Should rewatch it. For Fruity Rudy!! Don't forget Combat Jack!

EDIT:  Which would make a great action-figure.

COMBAT JACK!   Sticking it to Americas enemies! Just gimme some of that November Juliet! 

Oh man...I might just start rewatching right now. Thank god I bought the DVD set years ago! Whopper Junior! Dude when that scene hit, I couldnt stop laughing. Fucker has dead accuracy....unlike Cpt. America lol  A similar sentiment can be found in the song "[72 Hookers](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=w6NhCSw2tQI)" by NOFX. Damn, NOFX were the shit They still are. They toured Australia in November and are in the UK/Americas [this year](http://www.songkick.com/artists/214756-nofx). Truly an incredible band.

 NOFX were the shit. They still are the shit, by they were too.  Mexico is pretty fucked up though. The answer to that is even more pussy I loved that series and couldn't believe it was over so fast Ray's Ripped Fuel aided rants are my favorite part of Generation Kill. That and all his pop songs he's singing.  Fun fact: There isn't a sound track to Generation Kill. The only song played is the johnny cash song at the end of the series. So thats part of why they are always singing the the Humvee. It keeps us "in" the scene while still finding a way to fill the time and gaps It is absolutely true. China's one-child policy and India's desire to avoid paying dowries have led to severe excesses of males in recent generations. These men can have no prospects of ever marrying, and often turn to alcohol and violence. In China, the imbalance is known as [the bare branch](http://www.economist.com/blogs/analects/2013/11/millions-shop-spouseand-much-more). We need to quit dropping bombs and start dropping Playboys. Repression breeds obsession.  *abstinence makes the church grow fondlers* Based on the evidence in the article, I think it's safe to conclude that we just need a lot more arab-themed porn if we want a safer world.

Maybe our news headlines should all read "Sexually-frustrated Islamist Militant Detonates Vest, killing 40"

 &gt; Why porn is exploding in the Middle East

A lot of things are exploding over there. There's are dangers associated with sexual repression. We see it all over the world. When you restrict people from engaging in sex, they outburst in violence or perversion. Sexual desire is as fundamental to our nature as hunger. You cannot deny it without experiencing consequences. 

I wish the religions of the world would wake up and see this. Its good to see the data rolling in support of this. It's mostly those fun loving Abrahamic religions. Makes me wonder what the real impact these desert faiths and traditions have had on our species as a whole. When all the women around you are covering up everything, even looking at a woman's ankle can probably make those Arabs guys horny.Of course google helps alot there... You know.. Sex education is non existence over there. I have a good friend who is Muslim who came here from Egypt and he told me he felt totally overwhelmed (I assume he meant horny all the time) when he first moved to the US because girls were running around "practically naked" (it was summer in Boulder, so lots of runners in runner gear).

He's adjusted really well (and is a runner himself now!) but I can't even imagine what it must have been like.  &gt;I can't even imagine what it must have been like.

I imagine it's like when a 13 year-old figures out how to turn off safe search and gets a boner for the first time. You don't get a boner for the first time after you discover porn... you get them throughout childhood.. or at least I did.. *cough* Uhm... Hey look over there! *runs* [deleted] From egypt, came to europe but i wasn't overwhelmed. I just got more motivation to workout now when i saw how people really try to stay in shape here. I definitely tho get boners when girls grind against me in a club, but i guess most guys do.  &gt;He's adjusted really well (and is a runner himself now!)


Good, running after what makes him happy.
 Like this you mean?

http://youtu.be/IkTZ8BVAlFE &gt;even looking at a woman's ankle can probably make those Arabs guys horny.  
  
Well, they have the frontpage of www.yahoo.com for this, then. I think the data is slightly flawed. it is relying on Google search data. I rarely use Google to search for porn because I already know what sites I like. In many Muslim countries  porn is limited and sites are blocked or taken down on a daily basis. this means that viewers have to continually search for new sites that they can still access.  Well the heaviest porn viewers in the US are in the bible belt so it seems to fit the trend pretty well. I dunno...I think it is probably a good indicator. I've seen relatively computer literate people use Google to get to Youtube. They'll type in "google.com" in the URL box thing to bring up Google, then type "Youtube" in the Google search box. I think for a vast majority of computer users, especially less literate ones, Google is THE portal to the internet. To watch their Google searches is to look inside their mind. Do they not type 'www.google.com'? Your people are pretty savvy compared to mine if they've worked out that they don't actually need to type 'www' every time.   Bing as default browser, just type in "google"  to get it to search for it, double click to get into the google, type in Youtube, hit search, first link. Not that damned hard, people!  This hurts on a physical level. It hurts from the physical to the application layer Layer 8 always causes the most problems.  Internet porn users quickly become masters of the internet. Also Proxy settings.  Traffic from Muslim states would be coming from other states.  

The other way is for the CIA or anyone else who want to to route request via muslim states to make them look worse.

* Sit in the US
* Route traffic through Iran
* Google search "how do I get my watch back after fisting my goat??" or "why is my sheeps pussy tighter than my wives??"
* Set up a bot to repeat inappropriate searches
* Watch muslims blush while Buzzfeed and HuffPost clickbait with "you'll never guess the top online muslim sex searches!  Number 7 will blow your mind!" Psyops aren't what they used to be.

 I sincerely hope that is what the CIA is doing.  Seems preferable to supporting cartels and overthrowing governments. I hope there's an intern getting their first position in the CIA, hoping it to be *just like* Homeland, but has been assigned a desk somewhere in the basement with an old laptop and given the task.

CIA OP:  Right intern, heres your task.  We're going to take down the Iranian government.  I want you to use this laptop to Google the following list.  This is essential to the US security that this is done right.  Are you ready to start?

Intern:  Yes Sir.

CIA OP:  Right here's the list.  I'll be back in 8 hours.

INTERNS LIST:

* Are dogs good suicide bombers?
* Can I get herpes from my cat?
* Girl fucked by Ayatollah in tent while camels 69.
* Girls using shisha pipes as a tenticalled fuck monster
* 1001 Arabian night
* 1001 Arabian knights
* 1001 Arabian nights Brokeback Mountain
* Pussy AND Kabul AND prostitution law
* ISIS best bits
* Can the CIA see my search results
* Suicide victims AND necrophilia
* Images:  George Bush pussy cartoons
* Youtube AND Suadigirlsgonewild
* Reddit AND Muslim AND Pussy AND sand
* Which cum first, dog or cat
* Can I use my AK47 as a vibrator?
* Can I shape explosives into didlos for danger wanks?
* Drone AND Sextape AND training camp
* Do western men have bigger dicks?
* Is it true Americans all shave their balls?
* Is it true American women shave their breasts?
* What's under a burka?



 


 &gt;"how do I get my watch back after fisting my goat??" 

You use a broom handle while sitting atop the goat. Bing!   But everyone in western countries knows to use bing for their porn.  Well, if they're good, god-fearing Muslims the searches would be zero ;) OK, maybe it can be refined.  Still incredibly revealing.  It reveals that Muslims look at porn, but we still don't know if it is at rates higher, lower, or equal to the rest of the world.  Hah I did the same thing when I was in indonesia. Only time I've used google for it. "Pakistan leads the way in porn searches for animals like pigs, donkeys, dogs, cats and snakes."

wow.wtf. Pakistanis just want more excitement.  For the same reason things like 'ebony' and 'gay' are more popular in southern states in the USA than the northern ones. That sort of stuff is (more) frowned upon there and people have to find their fix online in privacy.

In this case you have a bunch of sexually repressed people that use the internet similarly. I wouldn't look to far into ebony, BBC would probably be more telling.  i live in pakistan. I'm pretty sure i dominate the top ten charts in any category myself alone. So I don't doubt the authenticity of that research. Duh, how sexually awkward can you make a society?

I mean if an ankle turns you on you have issues... So is the Netherlands the antithesis to the Arab world? Cuz we're all down with the sex.  I guess it is, while The Netherlands are quite open and relaxed about different sexualities, sexes leading to a rather healthy society in which both male and female members can thrive (not saying sexism isn't present, or there isn't abuse) and know how to be around each other.

Now take one of those middle-ages Arab countries where women get put in garbage bags with visors cut out, where a woman that wants to be independent gets called a whore, where women are forced to walk x amount of meters behind their husband ...Basically where women are third rank citizens forced to live their lives abiding to their husband's will ...

These people don't know how to act naturally, the men are sexually frustrated ingrates that have zero respect for women, the women in turn are so fearful they barely dare to speak aloud in public.

You can say whatever you want, given the choice I'd rather be born in the West than in that shithole called the Middle-Eeast/Arab world. I think you are pretty close minded to what people can find erotic or not. Don't think tribes in Africa have much left over for tits when their women run around naked all day. I'm sure there are plenty of sexually liberated individuals with an ankle fetish. I remember at one point /r/repressedgonewild existed. Bey it still does. Just sayin'. thought it said depressedgonewild and was like, "oh theres a place for the depressed subreddit to get down" well duh.

If you take something away from someone, all they think about is how to get at it.

EG: Prohibition. ...Screw that, we can do better!   USA USA USA 

::unzips:: Been doing my part for years Honestly, they're just checking to see how perverted the rest of the world is to validate their ideology.

;)  Eh, or maybe they're just looking for jerk-off material. It's like that Choudary fella, who was a party animal at university and now is the leading Muslim hate-monger, against women and alcohol.

They need to see the porn to know why they're blowing themselves up over it... The drones should be dropping porn  They just want to see what women's faces look like.  This is totally predictable. The top US state for porn is Utah. This statistic will probably be used by many of those nations as an excuse to crack down even further on internet freedom. They cannot admit that's it's themselves who are viewing it, but will instead blame others.  wouldn't you search the fuck out of porn if you lived in a country where women can't show their ankles Yup  Guess Muslim states finally pissed off [the wrong andriod](http://suptg.thisisnotatrueending.com/archive/26123105/images/1374303186251.jpg). *zips up thawb*

Okay, *now* I'm ready to make death threats toward Mia over the internet! Aw yeah, who's a dirty infidel. Duh, the people that screech the loudest about sexuality are always hiding something.  Just look at all the xtians that freak out about the "gay agenda", they always get caught at some massage parlour. I think the title of this article may be mistaken. Lieutenant Commander Data does not appear anywhere in this article. [he does in the trailer](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=14IY-PreyW0) (NSFW) Can anyone provide the Google data release that backs this claim?  The only link I found in the Salon article was to another article from muslimsandtheworld.com that showed the list but provided no reference. L'amour est plus fort que la haine. I spent some time in Kuwait a while back. I figured out that they did not block the Victoria's Secret website, and it was my new favorite site for a while.  That's because they search on Google for porn not on porn websites. Such a novice mistake.  Repression and explosions,  makes sense.   Like the Catholic Church.  They beat America?  This is fucking bull shit we need to win this war! They are just like us. 

Everyone is atheist, they don't know it yet.  I wonder how much of this is child porn Data like this seems like pure common sense after you read it. Pigs, donkeys, dogs, and cats I can figure out. But snakes? Snakes and eels work the same way, I'd guess... HAHA probably because they count anything that shows Ankle or more as porn.  Don't act surprised. denial is a powerful thing... I was deployed to Iraq, and one day we were doing a mission where we had to inspect a bridge. My trunk was security on the far side of the bridge right next to an Iraqi police check point. They were pretty friendly and we exchanged some food and our unit patches. Anyways while I was sitting in my truck (I was the driver) one of the guys comes over all excited and wanted to show me something on his cell phone. It was porn he thought it was the funniest thing ever. What are the other two?  Just curious. "Data reveals that six..." I was certain that this was going to be a Star Trek/BSG crossover slashfic...
 They are humans like us. Most of you guys think that's surprising? It isn't! [Granny suicide bomber porn](http://i.imgur.com/XgBU6Yh.gif) Between discovering that the South of the United States watches the most porn (according to PornHub) and now this, my theory is slowly coming true that the more oppressed a country/city/state is (usually through religion, because sex is so "frowned" upon), the more sexual they are and the more likely they are to have sex at a younger age.

OPPRESSION doesn't fucking work; it seems to do the opposite of the intended result. It seems to make sense, sex is our #2 desire after eating and drinking. It's what our genes were designed to do. Can confirm I support Auto Dealers which are very often muslim.... they turn on porn all the time when I cam connected to their machines. This just in, 
Not only radical Muslims explode.  You always want what you can't have. This makes sense.  As long as idiots keep trying it, I'll keep saying it.

REPRESSION DOES NOT WORK ...here is an idea: let's use porn as a vector for subtle propaganda targetted at these countries. Love when "Data Reveals...." is used.  "Information Says..." Relevant story - ran into an Arab-Brit working on the Saudi (I forget where) border while I was abroad.  He said on a Friday night, cars are lined up for miles to get across the border and go party in the neighbouring state.

Oppression man. Gotta blow off steam somewhere, it's obviously the natural healthy state of humanity. Upvote because Mia Khalifa is the shit! And Utah is the #1 state in the US searching for Porn....

There seems to be a correlation between religious oppression and porn watching ..... A lot of these top search terms sound fucking disgusting. "Pakistan leads the way in porn searches for animals like pigs, donkeys, dogs, cats and snakes." Literally wtf? These people are just crazy. They search for porn and when they find it, they get angry with those doing it. I will never understand them. surprise, surprise. well, not really. it just shows their hypocrisy again. When your religion bars you from masturbating and drinking alcohol it makes total sense to see these results Didn't they find Bin Laden with a bunch of porn? I mean come on. All that death and destruction because of sexual repression? It's absurd. Pakistan is not in the Middle East. Greater Middle East, then. It is no surprise that with your women dressed from head to toe in a black blanket, that seeing naked people have sex would be a temptation that would be hard to resist.  
And perversion aside, their is probably some education going on here as well.   When sex is not discussed, you can learn a lot from porn. I can't stop imagining a Pakistani guy google voice-searching "creamy squirt". 

The article included Turkey as an "Arab" country. Still interesting though. &gt;The article included Turkey as an "Arab" country. 

Stopped reading there, what a joke. Got drawn into one of those clickbait things, but this seems relevant, just how stroppy some in the middle east are getting, now a Lebanese born 21 year old woman is the [top porn star on pornhub.](http://www.independent.co.uk/news/people/pornhub-star-mia-khalifa-receives-death-threats-after-being-ranked-sites-number-one-adult-actress-9962293.html) 
You have to wonder, how much of that ranking is coming from the middle east, rather hypocritically, considering that's where the death threats will be originating too? Also, the most controversial scene with her wearing a hijab, at least for a while, is it perhaps just because people crave seeing taboos broken? I was thinking about this last night when I saw the story about the Muslim man who got 10 years for starting a discussion forum. Clearly the 
lawmakers realize that their shit won't hold up once people start discussing and using critical thinking, so what better way to discourage that than make it highly illegal to question them. 

If they had confidence in their beliefs (and if they were real), they would encourage critical thinking because it would strengthen their faith, instead of destroy it. exactly why I find it so tragic after the technological fall of the middle east which used to be the epicenter of free thought and science innovations at one point before al gazali when hearing neil degrassee tyson talk about it in several lectures it makes me wonder about the US and where we are headed  We are headed in a good direction. Religion is in decline. Kids are smarter these days than 50 years ago. Thank you, Internet. You truly are a blessing from god. I agree.. I just feel there is this huge distrust of science in this countries culture still.. less people yes but more vocal.. My priest had a speech about this - nowadays more than ever people need evidence to believe things. Religion and Faith is not based in evidence, and kids are skeptical. As a result, questioning and curious kids who are seeing new ideas from the internet are angering parents who grew up just believing everything their elders told them. Obviously negative reactions happen when trust isn't present in the family. No one was bitching about Muslims being violent and horrible to women 50 years ago in the west, because they weren't a threat - now we do because recent attacks on the west.  I think the best we can do with children (especially) is to let them question things without placing bias in their line of thought.  My nephew is 10 and he'll state things and end on "Because God, right dogonaroof?" and I just ask him "How do you know that?"  To which he says "Well, because God...right dogonaroof?" and we go back and forth a bit before he sits still and thinks.  I try my best to stay in a questioning mode not placing emphasis to one side or another.  

When I was in my late teens I had a close friend who told me (a christian at the time) "Sorry to tell you but heaven and hell aren't real."  and it bugged me.  The way he went about it was upsetting.  It didn't put me on a path or questioning.  It just irked me but I went on believing another 3 or so years.  I got into Michio Kaku's "Parallel World's" and it was the beginning for my disbelief in god.   I had a similar situation with a rival of mine. I had just moved to a densely populated area in an urban environment (a far cry from the backwater that I had inhabited before). I met this kid, he was a smart guy, and I wanted to make a new friend so I approached him and we had a bit of a confrontation about belief really early on. I was an absolute twat looking back on it and I just hammered home the point "Then if god didn't do it, then who did?". Frankly he had a similar response, "God does not exist, there is no evidence, no proof!". About as intellectual as the 8th grade gets. 2 years later I find myself on a similar train of thought, and I realized who the catalyst was. Find him on Facebook, give him a call, apologize for my abhorrent behavior. Meet up, we shake hands and I thank him. That's posi.  Glad to hear you could reconnect and have that.  Religion aside, I think about all the people i've met and the context of life that I had met them and i'm curious about meeting them again today.  I'm 29 but to meet people I knew as a kid to now would be a curious conversation as i've changed widely over the years with what i'm involved with.  I visit my hometown on occasion because of close friends but i'm also hoping a little bit to run into old friends to have such encounters.  I have a friend I get together with once every year about and he made an impact on me in elementary school.

Short story:  I was picking my nose in 4th or 5th grade and some kid saw me, laughed, and made fun of me for it.  My friend (best friend at the time) came over and said, "So what? I pick my nose all the time." which made the other kid be quiet and he walked away.

It was such a small thing but it stuck with me.  Memories like that are always fascinating with how they stick with us. Exactly I don't think they should get told or pushed. It's just typically more skepticism results in less religious belief or because gods. 10 isn't quite what I had in mind (I expect Christian kids at that age) but as high school begins the questioning, getting different views thing starts. Saying definitively "you know no god right"  or even "you'll burn in hell" is a dick thing to do &gt; 10 isn't quite what I had in mind

do you mean you would expect them to be christian then and that the questioning is more of a thing as a highschooler ?  Sorry.  I'm a bit mixed up on what you're going for there.

I feel like at highschool age there are more kids with a 'For Sure' cap on.  They are For Sure believers and when you question or give a counter argument they look at you as though you're a cute puppy in need of help.  I'm sure it's not overall that but from some of the encounters I had, it came off to a degree that way.

I think as young as possible, kids should be questioning and older individuals should be answering as best as they can.  I've been around my friends and their kids and when the child starts with "why's" the parents want to get away from answering as fast as possible.  "Just because" or "Stop asking" comes up and that sucks to hear because i want to interject but there's a strange attitude towards trying to parent someone else's kid when you're not a parent yourself.  It all depends on the way you go about it.  It's a bit easier with my nephew as i'm babysitting and hanging out with him.  Yeah but in terms of holding meaningful conversation or debate - ten is not great. Development in terms of critical thinking isn't there Maybe there's a god on a roof? The romans had a goddess of door hinges! so maybe? I hope you're right. I keep telling myself that religion won't survive the Information Age, but it's too early to tell. We can already see a massive trend against religion because of the increase of information. Just as the printing press created a wave of skeptics which stripped the Catholic Church of much of its power (It used to command armies), the internet has created an entire generation of skeptics. It's also created a huge portion of people that nitpick their news sources, as to fit their beliefs.

Anti vaccination is at an all time high, superstition is still flourishing, and the educational systems prioritizes learning your multiple choice test results, than critical thinking. True, the internet has provided a medium for almost as much misinformation as it has information.  The close-minded have found more things to support their beliefs, but the open-minded have discovered even more.  To reword a line from MLK, the arc of the universe is long, but it bends toward truth.  lol, i see what you did there. Religion is declining in advanced economies but rising in retarded cultures. It is as though western society is earning interest on their secularity while the middle east is paying it on their religiousity.

The sad reality is that the ignorant outbreed the cognoscenti, so the current battles of our generations must be repeatedly waged against an infestation of devout offspring. Mmm, I see what you did there... You need look no farther than the mid-East.

Anti-intellectualism?  Check.
Growing radicalism of the religious?  Check.
Growing wealth gap?  Check.

Fast forward 500 years, and the Pan-Asian Alliance are looking down from their orbital habitats at the primitives squatting in the shattered remains of North America thinking pretty much exactly what you do about Afghanistan now. Well if you have usefull skills and can speak the language getting the hell out of dodge has never looked better. Scary thought but definitely preventable. All it takes for evil to take over is for good men to do nothing. That's why I think this openly secular movement is crucial because it will unite secular believers who were previously scattered and ununited &gt;secular believers

Not sure you meant this as an oxymoron or not, but either way, thanks! I believe in secularism! Fantastic! Just send $39.95 to the Church of Secularis, and we'll strictly avoid praying for the soul you don't have!

Although no religion has proved its case for the existence of an afterlife, can you really take the chance that one of them is right? Only through the Eternal Indifference of Secularis can you be guaranteed to avoid all of them! great comment A+++++ would read again and again 11/10 with rice Teach me about the ways of the secular!  Isn't a secular believer a religious person who still supports the separation of church and state?   It says a lot that that's almost as bad as atheism in this country. Haha touche  ^this.

We in Canada are going to do our best to keep the Dark Ages South of the 49th parallel. A couple more decades of Plains cowboys policies and we should fit in just fine. As in Alberta? Yes, that's a worry. Despite the appearance from the vociferousness of some Christians, organized religion is losing membership in the U.S., not gaining it.

http://www.huffingtonpost.com/2013/03/13/religion-america-decline-low-no-affiliation-report_n_2867626.html
 Partly because of the vociferousness of some Christians. but...but...but...it's a relationship not a religion! Ha.  Indeed.  My brother says this horseshit.  "What I have isn't religion.  It's a relationship with Jesus Christ."  Oh, yes that makes much more sense. I'm not so worried about this in the US.  Our founding fathers nipped that in the bud with the first amendment. Not so fast.

I constantly see fundies saying, "The Constitution doesn't include Separation of Church and State."

Yes, we are actually dealing with these lunatics. Pretty scary stuff, man. Well of course they're allowed to say that.  But, what does that even mean?  The constitution limits what government can do, not what churches can do. Because there are governing bodies in this country that seem to forget about Separation of Church and State. 

 One Nation under Dog. [Our Saviour]( http://ofdoge.files.wordpress.com/2013/11/do-you-accept-doge_o_2141765.jpg?w=605)  [such Risen](http://imgur.com/3vpDfw5) [My Savior](http://i.imgur.com/qq6VzWI.gifv) http://www.atheistnexus.org/photo/one-nation-underdog-1?context=album&amp;albumId=2182797%3AAlbum%3A60493
 &gt; Yes, we are actually dealing with these lunatics. Pretty scary stuff, man.

Dealing with them is one thing. The scarier thing is that we're empowering them. "Believing with you that religion is a matter which lies solely between man &amp; his god, that he owes account to none other for his faith or his worship, that the legitimate powers of government reach actions only, and not opinions, I contemplate with sovereign reverence that act of the whole American people which declared that their legislature should make no law respecting an establishment of religion, or prohibiting the free exercise thereof, thus building a **wall of separation between church and state.**"

- Thomas Jefferson Your constitution is under attack my friend. You should be afraid!  Of course it is.  If there weren't forces opposed to it since day 1, it wouldn't have needed to be written. It's nice to have something to guide how our people are governed. But to immediately turn an idea down because "It's not in the constitution" (as we do all the time) is absurd. It's an old text and we need to revise it way more than we do. And ideas that aren't in the constitution need to be taken much more seriously. Nobody seriously believes the people who wrote the constitution had the end-all-be-all knowledge of how to run a country in modern times. Mr Franklin agrees with you.

"When a religion is good, I conceive it will support itself; and when it does not support itself, and God does not care to support it, so that its professors are obliged to call for the help of the civil power, 'tis a sign, I apprehend, of its being a bad one." - Benjamin Franklin I think that might be due to the ruling Saud family not wanting any places for dissenters to meet and foment revolution. Well said. The biggest problems I have with criminalizing the criticism of religion the power will be enabled for reasons authorities will claim to protect religion, but authorities will abuse that power to use to keep themselves in power without question, and we know this because we see it happening right now in many places of the world.  

If it's illegal to criticize religion (like say Saudi Arabia) then the people in power claim their authority has special providence with god, so to challenge them is to commit blasphemy.  If you challenge religion, you commit blasphemy and get executed.  If you try to form an opposing political organisation of any kind, you can be charged with blasphemy and get executed because to challenge authority that has providence with God is to challenge God.  

As soon as you pass a law criticizing religion anywhere watch what happens afterwards.  The same people who passed the law with wrap themselves in the pages of a holy book and claim all their actions have providence with God.  So any political cartoon made of them or their actions can be criminalized and shut down.  
 Romans 13

Let everyone be subject to the governing authorities, for there is no authority except that which God has established. The authorities that exist have been established by God. 2 Consequently, whoever rebels against the authority is rebelling against what God has instituted, and those who do so will bring judgment on themselves

Edit: thanks for the gold :) What's interesting about that passage is that it was written at a time when the Roman emperors didn't like Christians too much because of the whole not sacrificing to the emperors thing. He wasn't telling them not to be Christians; he was telling them to be good citizens otherwise. I think the emperor at the time would have been Trajan, who wasn't about hunting down Christians but did advocate for their punishment if it somehow came out that they were Christians.

Edit: more historical depth

Edit2: source www.pbs.org/wgbh/pages/frontline/shows/religion/maps/primary/pliny.html Neat. I didn't know that. When I first heard the passage it was one of the things that made me reconsider my faith. Like "is this all some scam to keep us in line?". Ya know? You might want to really check into that line of reasoning. Don't let a simple answer of "historical context" from a single person online convince you there is nothing to think about. As a christian I had an answer to every secular question about my faith because someone out there has a reason to dismiss any argument made against your faith.  Don't assume all the "answers" are good information.  I did this for years before I realized my beliefs all started to contradict themselves and also didn't line up with my experiences in life.  I had my mind made up years before I read this guys comment. I just thought that was neat (if it is true)

I grew up believing. Not knowing anything about Christianity or the bible. I was just taught if I was good I would go to heaven. It wasn't until I was incarcerated and had a lot of down time that I really did my own research. It wasn't until actually reading the bible and having long talks with my chaplain that I decided religion wasn't right for me Here's a source. I don't believe what random people say on the internet without citations either haha. :) I know PBS isn't a primary source but I think it's generally a reasonably good secondary source so....here's a PBS source anyway.  thttp://www.pbs.org/wgbh/pages/frontline/shows/religion/maps/primary/pliny.html 

All I'm saying was that the passage wasn't written at a time when Christians had much in the way of political authority, so I don't think it was an instance of people in political authority using religion as a means of keeping people in line. There are many instances in church history, however, when the church DID have political power, that religion was used as a means to keep people in line. 
 The books that state that are also the greatest source of racism, hatred, slavery and subjigation of women. To give these religions special privilege to decide what can be spoken or thought is to give special credence to the hate and evil in the books.  The people demanding limits to free speech are also the ones that claim some special right to be immoral.  Careful when you say speech should have limits because you also give away your right to hear others.   ...I'm an atheist.  Meant to comment above you not below.. Cheers! Obedience has always been the central tenet of Abrahamic religions. All the love stuff comes a distance second. Religion: mankind's first and probably most successful attempt at mind control. &gt; whoever rebels against the authority is rebelling against what God has instituted, and those who do so will bring judgment on themselves

Unless they win and become the governing authority. Then God meant for them to win, and if you were fighting against them then you were fighting against God's will. So basically make sure you win. Then you weren't disobeying god. History is written by winners It's passages like that that give credence to the theory/conspiracy theory that Paul was a Roman agent sent to infiltrate the budding Christian movement and make it subservient to Roman authority before it grew to be a big problem.  A few more examples            
Hebrews 13:17
Obey your leaders and submit to them, for they are keeping watch over your souls, as those who will have to give an account. Let them do this with joy and not with groaning, for that would be of no advantage to you. Titus 3:1 

Remind them to be submissive to rulers and authorities, to be obedient, to be ready for every good work, Romans 13:1 

Let every person be subject to the governing authorities. For there is no authority except from God, and those that exist have been instituted by God. 1 Peter 5:5 

Likewise, you who are younger, be subject to the elders. Clothe yourselves, all of you, with humility toward one another, for God opposes the proud but gives grace to the humble. 1 Peter 2:13-25 

Be subject for the Lord's sake to every human institution, whether it be to the emperor as supreme, or to governors as sent by him to punish those who do evil and to praise those who do good. For this is the will of God, that by doing good you should put to silence the ignorance of foolish people. Live as people who are free, not using your freedom as a cover-up for evil, but living as servants of God. Honor everyone. Love the brotherhood. Fear God. Honor the emperor. Thank you for this I'm going to keep it.   i like how it's completely incompatible with democracy.

"Governments are instituted among Men, deriving their just powers from the consent of the governed,  That whenever any Form of Government becomes destructive of these ends, it is the Right of the People to alter or to abolish it, and to institute new Government, laying its foundation on such principles and organizing its powers in such form, as to them shall seem most likely to effect their Safety and Happiness."

- the declaration of independence That's a good one - saved for future usage, thanks! Gold medal in the mail! No problem. When I was in jail we had an officer who would quote the bible all the time. This was his favorite verse  "You atheists are so arrogant...

I... AM... *GOD!*" To whom would you give the responsibility to decide what is allowable to say and what is not?  Does anyone have a nominee?   Clearly whoever is in power is put in power by God. /s

What worries me is that this is such an unstable platform to build a civilisation on. The people will support their king/emperor/president as long as they believe, killing anyone who questions authority often without the authorities even needing to be involved. And then one day some general has a miraculous vision and convinces the people that they're holier, and the whole society switches allegiance overnight.

Merit? Policies? Laws? Justice? Human dignity? None of those things matter when religion is running a place. I was a little confused when the Pope said people shouldn't mock religion.  If a belief structure can't stand criticism, it isn't very robust. If you have hundreds of pedophiles on the payroll and seem to spend money on everything but the poor of course you wouldn't want anyone calling your mother names.   It's true, but I sort of thought Pope Franky was one of the first to start cleaning house a bit (of course, modestly enough to ensure the empire doesn't fall).  As a Jesuit, he comes from a foundation of learning.  I really thought (read: hoped) he would be more diplomatic about accepting challenges to his faith and then saying something bullshit like, "But the Catholic faith is something more powerful than what can be defined by the empirical human constructs ubiquitous to the sciences..." I was not confused or shocked in the least. The pope has spent his entire life dedicated to his imaginary friend. Of course he doesn't want us to mock that. Cognitive dissonance seems to result in anger when it is pointed out. Implying they actually experience cognitive dissonance. That would require them to actually analyze their beliefs through introspection as opposed to blindly accepting it. I think it is safe to assume that the anger is often from a perceived disrespect to "God" as opposed to cognitive dissonance. &gt;to actually analyze their beliefs through introspection


I believe many if not all of them do.  I think, deep down, many do know their religion is no more than ancient fairytale, but their part of the world is so lacking in everything else, they feel that they'd have nothing to identify themselves with if not for their faith.  And if even their faith is being ridiculed, they would be nothing.  Knowing how fragile their place in the world already is, they have no choice but to adopt fanaticism.  It's their all-or-nothing bet.
 Amanda Marcotte at Rawstory has led some of the most vicious attacks against atheists, all under the banner of "feminism".

This mediocre quote doesn't deserve the credit that was bought for it. Ya the woman that led the attack against the duke lacrosse team and the UVA Frat should not be getting any kind of kudos from anyone Yeah. Quoting Wikipedia:

&gt; In January 2007, Marcotte wrote controversial statements about the Duke lacrosse case, including that people who defended the accused were "rape-loving scum".^[12][13][14] A few months before all charges were dropped in the case, on a blog post titled "Stuck at the airport again....." Marcotte wrote in part, "Cant a few white boys sexually assault a black woman anymore without people getting all wound up about it? So unfair." The post attracted criticism, including from The New York Times. Cathy Young described Marcotte as a leader of a "cyber-lynch mob," writing that, "in Marcotte's eyes, the real crime of the independent feminists is helping preserve the idea that the presumption of innocence applies even in cases of rape and sexual assault."^[15] Marcotte later deleted the post.^[16]

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Amanda_Marcotte

And now the false accuser of those "white boys" is in prison for second degree murder... of her boyfriend.

Marcotte truly is a horrible creature. Liked the out of context quote.  Now that I know who this woman is I feel it is my duty to down vote.  Thanks for spreading the knowledge. Yes, came here hoping someone would be pointing out Marcotte's hypocrisy.  The day she's able to say this...

&gt;*Feminism* is an idea, and, as an idea, it should be eligible for criticism, discussion, and yes, mockery. The only reason so many *feminists* demand special exceptions be made for *feminist* ideas is because they know full well that their ideas dont hold up well under scrutiny.

...then I might have some respect for her, but I seriously doubt she can or will put her own beliefs under that same microscope, even though it should apply to **all** ideas. Yeah, she has to realize that feminism has some of the exact same traits as religion first. Came here to say essentially this.

Fuck Marcotte and her high horse elitist bullshit.

Can't wait for her next article attacking men for not giving her enough ponies. "Thus the mildest criticism of religion is also the most radical and the most devastating one. Religion is man-made" -  Christopher Hitchens (God Is Not Great: How Religion Poisons Everything) Religious zealots biggest fear? Education. **5 + 5 = 100**

This is my belief and if you say I'm wrong I'll call you a racist(lol) a bigot and cut your head off. Wow, I'm not sure Marcotte realizes the irony of her making that statement. Compartmentalization. That's rich coming from Amanda Marcotte. That's true. I'm always impressed by the intelligence of the people who wrote your constitution. There foresite was amazing.

Excuse the spelling. I'm french from Montral. As a God-loving, Bible-believing Christian believer, can I say that I do not, and have never, sought special exceptions for religious ideas to be critiqued, discussed or mocked.

I recognise that where such prohibitions are sought, the result has, historically, always been oppressive to dissenters. 
 Good guy Christian over here eh  Good message in theory. However coming from Marcotte it's more hilariously hypocritical. How hypocritical, coming from a woman who invents strawman windmills to tilt at anytime somebody is critical of her political ideas. Now were she to not misuse rhetoric to distort and mischaracterize opposition to her political agenda, I'd be a bit more understanding. But she is one of the last people that should be jumping on the "Je Suis Charlie Hebdo" bandwagon.

The Gold given to this article, especially for a sub that values reason and logic over rhetoric and manipulative tactics, is horribly misattributed. It seems somebody here has already forgotten the nightmare and subsequent lessons that Atheism+ gave the secular community, just as it was beginning to pick up steam as a political demographic. And that is a shame. Source: http://www.rawstory.com/rs/2015/01/pope-francis-is-wrong-religion-deserves-ridicule/?utm_source=feedburner&amp;utm_medium=feed&amp;utm_campaign=Feed%3A+TheRawStory+%28The+Raw+Story%29 I feel this article would have been stronger without the gifs. They made her argument seem more childish.  Agreed.  Her writing is strong enough and the images took away from her message. The problem is not her writing it's her reputation. She burnt pretty much all credibility back in 2007 and she's done nothing since to help that position. What did she do, if you don't mind me asking? She was extremely nasty regarding the Duke Lacross Team Rape Case, and their later exoneration was an extreme blow to her credibility.

 replace "religion" with "feminism" and i'll be impressed if ms. marcotte still agrees. 

sorry, she's gotten under my skin a couple times.  Critical thinking kills religion. Ironic coming from Marcotte, considering her positions rarely hold together, and she does her damnedest to shut down all criticism. I disagree with her claim that the *only* reason so many religious people don't want religion criticised is because they think it doesn't hold up well under scrutiny. There are reasons like the belief that the religion is perfect &amp; that it is necessarily unholy to criticise it (that's blasphemy in a nutshell.) And off topic about Amanda, her accusations that the people who wanted evidence in the Duke Lacrosse case were apologists for rape, &amp; all of those other extreme accusations of hatred of women, make her a joke in my opinion. I'm sure she's nice, but here fervor in spite of evidence proved her unfairly biased in favor or women, including a woman who made false accusations &amp; ended up getting innocent men with a mob outside their house with signs calling for castration.  Of course!  Blasphemy, Apostasy and Heresy were created to stifle those who were intelligent enough to question religious authority.  Stupid people will be led.  Period.  Smart people can't be led, so they instead need to be silenced. We are surely lost if we give anyone the responsibility to decide for us what speech is allowable and what is not.  To whom would we give the responsibility? To the clerics who live by a book filled with violence, hatred, racism, slavery and subjigation of women as well as non believers?  Not me! Amanda  Mascotte  did  not create this quote.  Ppl have said it on this surreptitiously for awhile  Question with boldness even the existence of a God; because, if there be one, he must more approve of the homage of reason, than that of blind-folded fear.

Thomas Jefferson I would say it a bit differently..

Religion is a tool, or maybe a weapon, used to force believers into compliance with the orders of the leaders

I have no problem at all with personal, private beliefs

It's the political part that offends/worries me I think "know full well" is wrong. I think they know *subconsciously*, which makes their resistance less logical, more visceral, and ultimately more dangerous. Yes. All religions, without exception, are man-made. This should be obvious to everyone by now. All things created by human beings should be questioned, discussed, criticized, etc. Why?

Because not a single one of us knows better than any other what we are, what's going on with this space-time continuum and what to do about it.

A person must know why they believe what they believe, why they do what they do and why they want whatever they want. That is the minimum required of a sentient being. well said Mohammed killed his critics. There's nothing more you need to know. This is of course not true at all. Although it's funny to believe it is. It's not really helpful to believe this. 

People who believe shit without evidence still firmly believe it's true, they do not secretly think it's not true or that evidence will show that it is false. 

Any critical discussion would for them state falsehoods if it contradicts their view. And because their view is good, therefor the attack must be evil. I think the sentiment applies more to the leaders of the church than the followers. They've had enough time to study the religion and see all the cracks, and may fear that highlighting them would provoke widespread exodus from the faith.   But aren't the ones who are more heavily invested more prone to actually believe what they are saying? Maybe its a bit of both.. Maybe some people think their silly beliefs will stand scrutiny, but I'm sure there are also those who fear they may not. I've found this is especially true in discussions with Muslims and fundamentalist Christians -- even stating that some bit of dogma is untrue is enough to end the conversation. This isn't just funny to believe this, it is true as well.  The bible, koran, etc are said to the be the true word of god, yet many of the moderate followers will give a pass to the verses that are violent, homophobic or sexist because deep down they know they can't both be true.  Confronting this cognitive dissonance makes believers uncomfortable and defensive.

Admit that the texts are the words of ancient humans and the house of cards tumbles. I appreciate the greater degree of critical thinking in your post compared to that of others in this thread, but your first statements also apply to your last statements. It's not that critical discussion would be seen as evil merely because it contradicts their view - it's that critical discussion taken to an extreme becomes hatred, violence, and prejudice against the religious, which history is littered with. 

It isn't as much of a problem now as it was back in the 20s, or in the 1700s, or the 1600s, but that's the reason why the "special exceptions" exist, not because religious people are incapable of reason. Someone should remind Ms Marcotte that this also applies to her ideology of feminism. Judging by some of her past articles it is sacrilege to criticize the divine gospel that is feminism. (Basically I agree with the author's statement but am calling out her blatant hypocrisy) I'm not familiar with the author. Do you have examples that illustrate this? [This](http://www.alternet.org/gender/7-women-working-tirelessly-screw-over-other-women) is the best example I can think of...she attacks other women, some, like Christina Hoff Sommers, are feminists themselves, for having points of view she considers "anti-feminist". While some like Janet Bloomfield are by their own admission anti-feminist, someone like Hoff Sommers is merely trying to have an open discussion and pointing out some valid criticisms of a movement she herself is a part of. She wrote (writes?) for Slate for many years, and was a big part of the reason I stopped reading Slate.  This was years ago, so I don't have any examples off the top of my head, but I imagine that if you google her old articles you'll come up with plenty of examples. Came here to say this.  The irony and hypocrisy of her saying this is astounding. Yeah, I don't think there will be any public lashings or beheadings or prison sentences doled out for disagreeing with anyone's take on feminism, unlike religion. People losing jobs or scholarships due to retributive smear campaigns for disagreeing publicly with aspects of the religion, that's already happening. &gt;Yeah, I don't think there will be any public lashings or beheadings or prison sentences doled out

Well no of course not, we don't live in the dark ages any more. We don't see this type of retaliation for insults to religion any more either...unless you're publishing images of the prophet Mohammed. What will happen is you'll be called a woman-hating misogynist if you say anything critical of feminism. If you're persistent in your criticism and back it up with facts, you may find yourself doxxed by feminists who will go as far as calling your employer and try to get you fired for posting "hateful" comments on the internet.  There are, deep within the corners and cracks of feminism, a contingent of people who want to do things like violently revolt against "The Patriarchy", or subjugate all men, or even worse.

Just as religions have extremist members, so does feminism.  There are people out there who would have public lashings or prisons for people who disagree with them, they just are unable to do these things; we haven't seen much acting out of these extremist views, but that that does not mean it could never happen. what are you talking about? how is she a hypocrite? did she ever advocate for the creation of laws outlawing criticism of feminism? because she didnt, then she's not a hypocrite.

She may have disagreed with and criticized people who criticized feminism, but thats not being hypocritical. Unless she was actively trying to get those people prosecuted for their speech, then shes not a hypocrite. Google is a wonderful thing and it takes seconds.

http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Amanda_Marcotte Seems she tries to get people prosecuted for things they haven't done. After reading that my conclusion is that she is a POS. The quote in the OP is correct however. No, she doesn't try to get people prosecuted for things they haven't done.  It is just that she wants everyone to know that the people who think innocent people should not get prosecuted are misogynists, rapists (or at least rape apologists), and generally awful people. That is *totally* different.

In all honesty, I think her main motivation is that she is fundamentally unable to admit that she is wrong.  She reminds me much of the Fox News folks that live inside the echo chamber.  She invents her own reality to avoid honestly confronting her intellectual and moral missteps.

Either way, she is way too visible within the atheist community, as she is a profound embarrassment to that community. 

(Although I tend to agree with the article in question here). If you try make a living by being radical and edgy it's likely you are occasionally going to say things that are just stupid and offensive. Did she repent her error and apologise? No.  Never.  She simply does not so that.  I  have looked for apologies.  They don't exist.  She just calls people names instead, and then doubles down.  It is as if she has zero capacity for self-relection and self-assessment.  It is absolutely unreal.

And, if you want to be a prominent voice for the atheist community, you should make your living saying *intelligent* things, not edgy things. Marcotte has always been mono-selective when it comes to her critiques on organized religions, this one line is probably the first time she's ever taken a swipe at islam. 

I take that back, amanda has **NEVER** gone after islam. She's a false progressive when it comes to religion... The reason I call her a hypocrite is that the quote in the OP's title, would absolutely infuriate her and other feminists if we were to switch mentions of religion with feminism. She advocates freedom of speech and the ability to criticize and mock religion and claims believers don't want this because their beliefs don't hold up well to scrutiny. I've heard of more than enough times where those who either criticize or mock feminism get rape and death threats thrown at them...as well as many instances where feminists silence those with dissenting points of view. I think it goes deeper than that. Indoctrination works by conditioning children that it's wrong to question their religion, even in their own heads. That's faith.
 She should apply that idea to her brand of radical feminism. Religion seems less the result of an idea and more the result of an instinct. It doesnt help when you have fellow atheists not supporting each other. No religion anywhere can survive an examination under the spotlight of reason, common sense and science. They are all a mixture of rank superstition, tall tales, outright lies and stupidity. In that case, I wonder why feminists demand special exceptions for their beliefs.... Please never use that logically, factually and intellectually challenged half-wit of a simpleton, Amanda Marcotte, to legitimize anything.  She's an imbecile. Well yes, but it's Amanda Marcotte...  pot, meet kettle.
 This is not entirely true. Religious people generally do think their religion is stable under scrutiny, but they tend to demonize the act of scrutiny itself. They don't actually know they hold unstable beliefs, because true right and true wrong mean very little to them. They won't examine opposing evidence e because they consider it to be a waste of time when they could be studying their scripture instead. The things they believe are a part of who they are, mentally, on a surface level. They just can't face the possibility of what they spend a large part of their life doing being built from untrue stories. Its a personal attack when you criticize religion, just like calling someone dumb. Sounds a lot like Feminism to me. Religion exists and as a thing that exists, I can laugh at it all I want.

And they don't demand special exceptions, they emulate their prophet who killed poets that crticized him. Religion is bizarre any way you look at it.  And the only way it can survive in the long run is special societal and governmental exceptions. This is shocking she can write something so cogent.  [In this article she wrote](http://www.rawstory.com/rs/2014/08/sorry-richard-dawkins-but-you-did-not-actually-hurt-my-feelings/) she completely misrepresents what Richard Dawkins said.  Read the article for yourself, and if you are familiar with Dawkins works you know EXACTLY what he is talking about regarding emotions and that he always champions the respect of women.  I want to call her ignorant but she is way too smart, so I guess she is well aware of his intent and purposefully constructed a bogus straw man argument to gain name recognition.  I certainly wont forget her name.  I have zero respect for her.  This would be as bad if she misrepresented someone I disliked, there is no room for this shit.  Even broken clocks are right twice a day I think the reason why believers dislike so much for being criticized is because their feeling of insecurity towards their own religions.  Deep down they know their religions don't make sense.

If they feel secured about their own religions why even bother with a little criticism or mockery? Deep down they know the inherent problems with their own religions. The thing is they just have a hard time to admit it. 

 Agreed. I think much of the virality of religion stems from the built-up familial and social ties, and not the beliefs themselves. I think deep down, at least half of Christians do not actual "believe" in the classical sense. Ditto for quasi-religious movements. Many people get angry when ideas that are important to them are challenged. See politics, sports, just about anything...

Nobody should get special treatment though. &gt; Its a quote from an article on Rawstory.com.

A link would have been nice. Hmm I don't think that captures the heart of it. If you have ever heard a religious apologist speak-they seriously believe they are right and that their views hold up to scrutiny (source-I used to be one). they feel personally attacked by criticism. Religion often demands personal sacrifice. And the mind has to justify that sacrifice by amplifying their emotions. They feel their cause, there world view, their deity, in some cases their very identity is being attacked. For some, this requires action and they take it. 

To me this is why religion is so dangerous. Bad people will be bad, but religion makes good people do bad things and it is disgusting.  This has been said many times before (and I agree with them all). Trouble is a large portion of many sections of society (even 'western societies') interpret that as:

"All ideas (except my personal favourite) should be eligible for criticism, discussion, and yes, mockery."

If you doubt what I say just look at Pope Francis' announcement on free speech this week. 

I'll go and get a quote and link now.

**Edit**

&gt;Francis said on his flight from Colombo, Sri Lanka, to Manila that everyone had not only the liberty, but also the obligation, "to say what he thinks to help the common good."

then

&gt;"One cannot provoke, one cannot insult other people's faith, one cannot make fun of faith."

[source] (http://edition.cnn.com/2015/01/14/asia/philippines-pope-francis-visit/index.html?eref=edition) I usually say something similar: individuals have rights; ideas do not.  If you are truly faithful in your religion (Christianity for me), you don't care what people say about your faith.  While I agree with the sentiment, this is incredibly rich coming from Marcotte, one of the most vicious, deluded radical feminists out there. She might want to try applying the thread title to herself. "his crime called blasphemy was invented by priests for the purpose of defending doctrines not able to take care of themselves..." 



- Robert G. Ingersoll And what a beautiful quote it is! THANK YOU FOR THIS POST First, I think people should believe WHATEVER THEY WANT TO BELIEVE, if it makes them happy. In the grand scheme of things, there is really nothing more important than your individual happiness. HOWEVER, and second, the notion that your happiness is dependent on others agreeing with your beliefs, or not criticizing them, is a problem. Third, provided no one ever bans your beliefs (which I definitely think is wrong), you should not seek to ban the rights of other people... and this is a major part of why religion has been argued against for decades (if not centuries) by reasonable people. Your fictional beliefs, no matter how happy they make you, don't give you the right to DEPRIVE OTHERS OF THEIR PURSUIT OF HAPPINESS.

So, finally, in the grand scheme of things, if you truly believe your "god" is real and that your religion is absolute and unquestionable, then why are you remotely afraid of counterpoints or any belief that belittles your faith? IF YOUR FAITH IS REAL, then NO ONE'S OPINION ABOUT IT SHOULD MATTER. You are one of your god's chosen people... you have an ETERNITY to bask in the glory of being right. Shes a feminist hate monger, but this is a good quote  Even a broken clock is right twice a day. Also, she should be so tolerant about criticism  about feminism Mock a religion all you want, but dont pretend that 1.6 billion adherents are all the same.

Just like all us atheists are the same either. Some of us are dicks and some of us arent.. just like the rest of reality.


 Does this forum accept statements that differ from the (non)beliefs of most members?  I would like to comment, but I don't want to impose. *starts chanting* DO IT!  DO IT!  DO IT! Well now you've already commented.  If you want to express an opinion, hey this is Reddit, go ahead! We're supposed to, as long as you're respectful you should be fine. The statement poses a good argument, and, like every good argument, it lists assumptions first.  The assumption is that religion is an idea.  If we assume that is true, then then truth of the statement is clear and obvious (aside from the generalization, and such vast generalization ruins many arguments).

But I, like many who disagree with the statement, do not consider religion an idea.  At least not on the same scope as "let's get Chinese" or even "maybe society should vote on things".

Reality is simply perception.  What a person perceives determines their their reality, and their perspective controls what they perceive.  Many perspectives are affected deeply or even formed completely by their religion.

So when you mock a persons religion, you are mocking their reality, discounting their perspective, making a personal attack deeper than most anything else you can do.  You are telling a person that anything they have ever done or seen is bullshit, and their reality is a total farce.  No one wants to hear that, regardless of how well they think they can defend their reality.  

I have seen people come on this forum and get slaughtered for mentioning God or using God in an argument.  Is that because you are scared that atheism will not hold up under scrutiny?  If not, then why would you consider the same true about those who have a different reality? Your right that attacking or mocking a person's deeply held beliefs can be very painful, and isn't necessarily always constructive.  And I agree the quoted statement is weak, mostly because it assumes to know other people's motivations.

However, I have to disagree with you on your definition of reality.

&gt; Reality is simply perception.

Your perception of reality is not equal to the objective reality that exists outside of your mind.  Regardless of the fact that none of us can see this objective reality due to our personal perception, there is still only one objective truth.  To bring it around to be apropos, either a god really does exist or it does not.  That is a reality that does not change with perception.

Yes, you can say, "your personal reality *is* your perception of reality" but what you're really saying by "personal" is "from your perception", so it becomes a tautology: "your perception of reality is your perception of reality."  That, while true, isn't particularly useful.

 I think that most of them do that because they've had bad experiences before. I went through a period in high school when I would deliberately bait mormons into arguing with me about religion, just because I was so tired and frustrated being a non-mormon living in a mormon community, among other differences. I was treated really badly, to the point a bunch of kids gathered around throwing rocks at me in second grade just because I wasn't like them, and at some point I just couldn't take it anymore and starting fighting back with fire.

I stopped doing that because eventually I realized that carrying around that kind of resentment towards strangers over something they were practically born and raised believing wasn't productive - and yes, it's similar to how I was born and raised the way I am. Exactly.  People get tired of fighting the same fights over and over again with the same result.  I think that better explains why believers and atheists have difficulty talking about and comparing their beliefs or lack thereof.  Everyone on both sides has enough memories of trying to converse about faith with the other side that always end the same way.  That is the real reason both are so mean to each other, I think.

I think it sucks, because I use to consider myself an atheist, and, even then, the concept God, light, and time were pretty much my favorite things to talk about.  Unfortunately, anyone I talk about it with either thinks I am evangelizing (which I am not) or need to be evangelized (don't think I do).  Walls go up, and atheists try to ridicule me or embarrass me, while believers try to convince me I am wrong with tired old arguments I resolved for myself long ago. It's a great quote but I wouldn't say that it's the only reason.

Without taking a poll, I would bet that millions of people don't even consider that their ideas won't hold up to scrutiny but that it is their god fearing duty to stop blasphemy in all forms and to also want to save the souls of blasphemers. (sorry for the long sentence) Deep thought.  

Without religion we would have created computers a thousand years ago and if we made PC's 1000 years ago we would probably be living on other planets by now and maybe other solar systems along with all the other cool stuff that kids born in the year 3000 are going to be able to play with. What are your evidences ? 
(I'm an atheist btw, it's just that I doubt about it.)
 The Antikithera mechanism had differential gears in it. Differential gears are an invention that directly led to computing in our age. 

Now I don't know if without a Catholic curch we would have had computing 1000 years earlier, but I do know that this organisation burned all ancient knowledge they saw no use for. We were able to get some back via Arab copies but there can be no doubt that a lot of information was lost forever.  I don't agree.  

I went through a religious high school, so I think I understand it a bit.

Religious are taught that the consequences of a lack of faith are dire--eternal damnation, cursed by God, whatever.  Accepting or even tolerating criticism of the religion makes many worry about God's wrath.

In some extreme cases (e.g. Hebdo) I think the practitioner actually believes he will be rewarded by God for his lack of tolerance. And I think you just nailed it - how can we put up with, in this day and age, any school which teaches people about consequence in an afterlife. This kind of teaching always elevates religious laws above others and creates unreasoning minds. "If your right you'll never fear the wrong" The whole idea of heaven inexplicably survived the 18th century development of the hot air balloon, and just keeps persisting despite  millions of believers who have traveled by jet and seen for themselves the complete absence of dead relatives, angels and gold infrastructure.  If people want to believe in talking snakes and flying Jewish zombies, they are pretty well immune to mockery. If they want to play with their toys.. Then feel free to do it at home.  Invite your friends over, but don't come making me play with your toys.  I am not interested and if you insist I will speak out about it. &gt;  If people want to believe in talking snakes and flying Jewish zombies, they are pretty well immune to mockery.

But the problem is that they are _not_ immune to mockery; they are very sensitive to it, and some of them react violently. &gt; Religion is an idea, and, as an idea

Which is why I am against, and argue for the repeal (i know, i'm playing a long game) of Freedom of Religion (FoR).

Freedom of Conscience, Assembly and Speech are *all* that you need to hold your religious ideas.  

Explicitly having FoR actually *elevates and establishes* Religious Ideas above other non-religious ones.

The West really really fucked this up.  And, it's the reason that these regressive places are backsliding.  These ignorant illiterate masses see our FoR and actually see it as a *Christian* establishment and not the secular nature.

This FoR is also a great danger to us.  It could truly end up being the undoing of our own secular democracies as the ever creeping space for religion is carving exception after exception from law.

I fear a ["corporate personhood"-level](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Santa_Clara_County_v._Southern_Pacific_Railroad) decision with FoR that unbridles the churches completely. This is a helluva good point. Also, once a corporation is treated legally as a person, and that "corporate person" can have a religion - well I think that's a very slippery slope that can't possibly end well for individual rights. Sad that you guys are linking Amanda quotes.  By all means, feel free to post a better article or to identify a better one already posted.  If you do, point me to it and I'll give you an up vote as long as it is on topic. If you read this sub, then you know it's already been said many times by a variety of other people, most of whom have the advantage of not also being a popular bigot. I don't recognize the author, but I'm a regular poster to this sub.

Could you point me to something that highlights what you know of them? Well I'm a theist but I also dislike organized religion. Her quote is basically a rip off what Dawkins said at the reason rally in DC so its not really original. She's also an anti-male extremist feminist.  &gt; She's also an anti-male extremist feminist.

True, but that doesn't make her wrong about this. Arguments stand on their own merits, not on who makes them. It's not even her argument though. It's a tired cliche. A Dawkins rip off.  so what? there are no new arguments regarding religion. every new argument is just an old argument thats been worded slightly differently. I bet I could find someone else saying pretty much the same thing before dawkins did.  That's nice.  Is there some shortage of this particular variety of statement that I'm unaware of? &gt;I'm a theist but I also dislike organized religion.

I hear this more and more lately. Do you not believe in the god of a specific religion, like Islam or Christianity, and if you do believe in Jesus, for example, what makes it not qualify as part of an organized religion? If you get your beliefs about god somewhere other than religious texts, where do you get them from? Or are you one of those who thinks that people can make up whatever beliefs they want to as a modified version of an established religion, and that is somehow reliable for arriving at truth? I meant that I am a follower of Christ. But I don't support any specific church it organization. I am weary of the corporate style churches that exist in the US today. I used to be a Christian until I actually thought about it.

Christians believe that a perfectly just God required the death of an innocent person as payment for shit other people did. This is what I ask Christians and almost none of them even attempt to answer it:  *How on Earth does punishing somebody for something he didn't do meet any imaginable definition of justice?*

You will probably say, "God requires perfect justice, and sin deserves punishment, so somebody had to take the punishment." No, *sin* doesn't deserve punishment; *sinners* would deserve it. We don't punish *crimes*, we punish *criminals* for *committing* crimes. We don't just pull somebody off the street and punish them for a crime that occurred if we can't solve the crime just because a punishment has to happen for it, whether it's the actual criminal or somebody else. It's only justice if the actual offending criminal is the one being punished.

You might say, "But Jesus volunteered for it!"

Okay, then lets' take this scenario: Somebody rapes and kills your closest female family member, and gets away never to be caught. You will say, "But I want justice for this crime!" So, your next closest family member (daresay your son?) says, "Hey, I will volunteer to take this murderer's crime upon myself, and I will go to prison in his place. This way, the penalty has been paid, justice served." Would you accept that and call it justice? Of course not. No sane person would. It makes no sense, in any context, to punish an innocent person for the crimes of another. Yet this is exactly the scenario with the Jesus sacrifice. The only thing Christians try to pull in response to this is usually, "We can't understand God's ways, his standards of justice may be different from ours" and when they do that, they're admitting that they don't care whether or not their beliefs make sense. I care, so I can't believe this nonsense. Why can you? I don't want to put words in anyone's mouth, but I'm sure one can be a "follower of Christ" as Thomas Jefferson claimed to be, without subscribing to the idea that he died to wash away the sins of the world. Just try to live an exemplary life (that whole "do unto others" thing), being kind and gentle to all you meet, with the possible exceptions of moneychangers and fig trees. Sounds like you can be a follower of Christ without believing in any God period. If I'm not mistaken, Thomas Jefferson was considered a Deist, which means that he believed there was a God who created everything who then left his creation to attend to other matters. This would leave no room creating a son in His image. So I don't think it follows that he could have been considered a "follower of Christ".

Although living a life similar to Christ would be a great thing, simply doing that without trusting completely in him misses the entire point of his life and sacrifice, as well as his teachings.   I consider Jefferson to be a Deist, or a closet atheist. He was widely considered to be, and accused of being, an atheist in his own time.

&gt; Although living a life similar to Christ would be a great thing, simply doing that without trusting completely in him misses the entire point of his life and sacrifice, as well as his teachings.

Yes, everyone thinks they have the one true view. Jefferson himself wrote, "I am of a sect by myself, as far as I know."

He also wrote, "I am a Christian, in the only sense in which he wished any one to be; sincerely attached to his doctrines, in preference to all others; ascribing to himself every human excellence; and believing he never claimed any other."

Some years later he wrote: "I am a real Christian, that is to say, a disciple of the doctrines of Jesus," so perhaps he would not consider you a true follower of Christ either.

A few years before his death, he wrote to John Adams, "The truth is that the greatest enemies to the doctrines of Jesus are those calling themselves the expositors of them, who have perverted them for the structure of a system of fancy absolutely incomprehensible, and without any foundation in his genuine words."

I suspect you and Jefferson would both agree that one of you would not be considered a follower of Christ, you just wouldn't agree on which of you that is. You forgot to mention that the innocent person was God's own son...but also himself...Basically sacrificing himself for our sins which could be argued is a kind of suicide....which is the domain of the devil...whoa this is getting kinda weird. :P I too, was Christian until I actually thought about it. Then, through an experience, God brought me back to Him. From then on I actually "thought" about what I was believing. There are immeasureable sources that can answer your questions. Theologians and preachers like Jonathan Edwards or Martin Luther, or modern people like Ravi Zacharias or Tim Keller are places you could start if you actually want good answers. 

As far as my personal answer to your question here goes: God is infinitely perfect. Any wrongdoing against an infinitely perfect being would require an inifite punishment. In the same way that threatening the President (or king etc) is far worse than threatening say, a friend, anything bad done against God is heresy to the nth degree. 

There was only one way to destroy sin. It would take someone who has known no sin to bear the weight of all the sin of the world. It could not be put on someone who was also guilty/sinful because they already owe an infinite sentence. When you say an "innocent person" volunteering for the crimes of another, you are making the mistake of thinking that there is any person who is actually innocent.

When Jesus took on the sin of the world, it became possible for us to be forgiven of all trespasses simply by trusting in His completed work. There is no "religion" involved, but someone who has salvation by Christ will generally start to appear more and more like Christ.  &gt; In the same way that threatening the President (or king etc) is far worse than threatening say, a friend,

This is ridiculous. A president or a king is no better than a regular person.  Quite true. It was just for the sake of an example. A president/king is considered more valuable than others, as exemplified by having bodyguards and limitations on what you can say about them.  Reading your comment the third time I am struck by the number of statements you take as facts - that are clearly and simply feelings or beliefs. You seem so certain... but your argument is completely unconvincing. "God is infinitely perfect." Can you not appreciate that much of the world wasn't indoctrinated to your vision of "God"? He exists in your mind. Really, it's all in your mind.
If you truly want to convert people you will have to improve your arguments, hopefully with research and learning - I would offer this link as a source of New Testament history: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dtQ2TS1CiDY&amp;index=1&amp;list=PL279CFA55C51E75E0 &gt; God is infinitely perfect. Any wrongdoing against an infinitely perfect being would require an inifite punishment.

Can I ask what this is based upon? I am genuinely curious as this makes no sense to me. 

&gt;There was only one way to destroy sin. It would take someone who has known no sin to bear the weight of all the sin of the world. It could not be put on someone who was also guilty/sinful because they already owe an infinite sentence. 

Also, who set these rules up? Who decided the only way to destroy sin was for a sinless person to die? Who dictated this must be the case?

Thanks! If God is infinitely perfect and omniscient and omnipotent, why are there terribly inefficient and wasteful processes, structures, and organisms in nature?  Even if he was to step out of the evolutionary process as some people argue...he would have still KNOWN that the process of evolution is imperfect and would have still KNOWN that it would lead to photosynthesis which is only something like 4% efficient (just google 'inefficiencies in nature' or 'arguments from poor design' and you'll find literally dozens of other examples).  He planned for something something that is incredibly imperfect.  It's probably all part of his 'plan' right?  And we can't even begin to understand what his 'plan' may be or what it may lead to...

When you really start to THINK about things, the idea of there being a 'God' makes absolutely zero sense.   &gt; I meant that I am a follower of Christ

No, you are not. It is just something you say but you do not actually mean it and you have never done any of the things Jesus asked you to do in order to get into heaven. That's a lot of presumption for one post? Care to back up your claim with evidence? &gt;Care to back up your claim with evidence?

That's a tad ironic. A lot of what Jesus preached was to the Pharisees who were practicing the religion and laws of the Jews. He told them that they were not able to save themselves by the law, and they would be crushed by it.  They had to trust soley in Him for salvation. 

So there are no "things Jesus asked you to do in order to get into heaven".  She might be exactly as you say, but I don't know her work beyond this one article.  So, I'm kinda stuck without taking the time to go off and read a bunch more from her to see if you are correct.  If I do that, there are things I won't be reading or that I will be putting off.  Maybe I'll be lucky and see what you see on the first article? I would disagree though that "they know full well" that their logic have holes the size of Pluto in them. We all know the cognitive biases that lead people astray and make them inflexible in their are viewpoints and intransigent when faced with better data. Its hard to stay mad at people when there is no free will and they would always just do what they were going to do based on their genes and life experience.  it should apply to political/economic systems as well. imo, this has overtaken religion as a source of tyranny and suffering.  You can't have the target of the criticism become its censor. It doesn't work for obvious reasons. Critical thinking is the work of satan!  Your look at most debates that are secular vs theist it seems the theist side loses and comes our looking worse.  Good point.  But...but part of that idea is that the idea cannot be questioned. It's the original circular argument. OK, but the people this applies to don't think it is an idea they think it is an indisputable fact so this argument isn't going to hold any water is it? believe is an idea, religion is a doctrine. "believe" is a verb and so cannot possibly be the noun "idea".  

Otherwise, I totally concur.  Carry on. Belief is an idea, religion is a doctrine.

I typoed ;) This quote cuts right to the root of it. I was raised catholic and was always part of church activities. Then as I got separated from my country I could not care much for religion. 15 years later I returned and that same time the neighbor had passed away. For like 10 days was the prayers. It was such a brainwash to hear. There should be a religion detox program and educational training for telling the difference  between tales and facts. Correct! I'm religious and I very much agree with what she says. I'm sick of most people sitting in fear of being wrong. I come to this sub a lot to hear what people have to say because I want to hear the other side of the spectrum.  "But! But it's more than an idea, it's the God-given truth and anyone who questions it is a heretic and blasphemer who could damn millions so of course we need to treat them in a way completely opposite to how God asks us to treat people!" &gt; What they are truly aiming for is far more sinister and diabolical:

&gt; **They want to make it infinitely, ineffably and irrevocably harder for *both* Muslims and ex-Muslims to go about their lives peacefully in the countries that they have immigrated to.**

Quoted and highlighted for truth. Great summary. That clearly is the end result but I doubt most of the people that perpetrate these kinds of acts can think that far ahead into the future or possess the ability for that kind of abstract thinking in my humble opinion.  The God Delusion has a part about memes, I think it's relevant to their motivations. They aren't purposefully trying to do it, just a meme in their thinking is very good at "reproducing". A bacterial genome doesn't wake up one day thinking "Gee, I'd better evolve some antibiotic resistance today!". It either gets lucky and thrives or is unlucky and dies out. They were probably strongly encouraged by people that can Exactly this. The people and organisations  behind these types of events are very clear on what they are doing in my opinion. They also know what buttons to push on impressionable, uneducated or plain dumb people so that they can carry out their mission.  Most suicide bombers are not of the stereotyped poor and uneducated masses that media makes them out to be. They tend to be middle class, relative to their country at least. They often know what they are doing.  When you use God as your justifications, regardless of how horrible your actions are, you can get anyone, no matter the the social class they're in to do anything you want if you use a scare tactic such as an eternity in hell.   no, they *believe* in what they're doing. knowledge doesn't really apply. if they had any actual knowledge, they would see the foolishness in their behaviour and cease misbehaving. but, no, they refuse to accept knowledge over faith because they have been born and raised to believe, falsely, that their faith *is* knowledge Real quick, I don't think seeing what's wrong with one's actions comes from knowledge, as much as it does from reason. Different things. A reasonable man can be very unknowing, and a knowledgeable one can be very irrational.

Edit; different not diffrrnt Yeah, they were so skilful they **left their ID papers in the getaway vehicle.** Supposedly. I have heard that this was just what the media were told to save the police explaining how they knew who they were.  I suspect they were already being monitored.  You are giving these brainwashed members of a death cult far too much credit.  I don't think it goes beyond this: they have been convinced the only honorable way to die is fighting with infidels. Of course brainwashed foot soldiers aren't thinking that far ahead. They aren't planners, they are weapons. But their brain washers probably have thought that far ahead. Ultimately this likely intent is probably up the chain somewhere. And underestimating the leadership of these organisations is probably Ill advised.  I too believe that Ramones at an early age can lead to a better life and mindset. Not even Jethro Tull, a band whose lead singer was critical of organized religion and wrote a 45 minute song about it, kinda? Is that what Thick as a Brick was about? It droned on so long with flute solos I could never pay attention... The Ramones, however, 1234!!! 2 minute songs of catchy as fuck punk!

[I am a hypocrite... I regularly sit through all 18 minutes of Throbbing Gristle's Very Friendly or Current 93's 22 minute long I Have a Special Plan for this World... then again neither of those have flute solos.] Didn't jethro tull also sing a song about children? Aqualung, had to be said. That song wasn't about children at all really..

["The idea came about from a photograph my wife at the time took of a tramp in London. I had feelings of guilt about the homeless, as well as fear and insecurity with people like that who seem a little scary. And I suppose all of that was combined with a slightly romanticized picture of the person who is homeless but yet a free spirit, who either won't or can't join in society's prescribed formats."](http://www.tullpress.com/gwsept99.htm) 
 Jethro Tull has lots of songs about lots of shit. Scrolled down to make certain this had been said. A few well-written, insightful paragraphs from someone more informed than myself, and suddenly I feel a lot better. Thanks, OP. I'll add a WOW definitely worth 5 minutes of my time. &gt;If the two schmucks who attacked the Charlie Hebdo HQ were subjected to the sonic barrage of a Ramones tune at an early age, I'd wager that many lives will have been spared, and that we would all go back to extolling the virtues of Pastafarianism instead.

That should be a new slogan. Ramones, Not Religion! Would we be Ramone Catholics? Ramones as religion!  Wait... Yeah... I think the song Beat On The Brat will be interpreted too literally. Thou shalt findeth thee a brat.

Yea, and unto that brat shalt come a beating.

And it shall come to be that a baseball bat will be used in this beating. Great post.

The problem is similar to the Mafia problem. What turned that around was when Italians got sick and tired of being seen as organized criminals and started turning their own in. It was the need for Italians to get their good name back, which caused the change.

Moderate Muslims need to take action and become the driving force of change. They must help identify and prosecute those who harm them as well as us. They must show they have the courage to face those Muslims who have  tarnished their religions name .

Yes, we should remain calm and just, but the situation will not change until Muslims take action to help. Change will have to come from within the Muslim community. Really interesting metaphor (re: mafia, italians, etc.) but it is important to point out that Italians (in america at least) started being able to "change their name" only when they were afforded the social means to economic advancement.

Until people in the middle east/north africa/former european colonies are afforded these same paths to economic advances (i.e. no longer forced to live in western backed oil-sheik fiefdoms), can we really expect the same thing to happen? And, it can't be ignored, but the fact is the Italian, Irish, German, Slavic, etc, populations were able to integrate more quickly because they're *white*. Once the accent is gone after the first generation, a whole of the "otherness" is gone too.  &gt; Once the accent is gone after the first generation, a whole of the "otherness" is gone too. 

The accent is only gone if people integrate though. If you keep to yourself even 3rd and 4th generations still have accents. Source: people living in my country. I moved to another language country and speak both accent free - why? I integrated into the new community and adjusted. Who is responsible for affording that path to them ?  &gt;*The problem is similar to the Mafia problem.* 

Wow interesting metaphor. Never thought about that way.
 We also need to break free of "you're a racist" being used as a shield. It's not just Muslims who need to speak out against this, we also need people to not fear being labeled a racist if they call a Muslim person on their shit. In 2014 the UK had a problem with a pedophile ring run by Muslims and the Police refused to step in because they were scared of being labeled racists.

We cannot build a healthy society when the law and people's judgement puts race before character. Someone's skin colour should not be a conversation ender because we're so scared of being labeled a racist, we act racist in positive-discrimination ways. This especially applies to the media who push their multicultural narrative which means they're extremely selective in how they represent each race's criminals and victims. A human being is a human being, drop the narrative and call a criminal a criminal.  &gt;  until Muslims take action to help

I see this kinds shit all over western media, especially Reddit.  When was the last time you read an editorial in a Turkish newspaper?  Ever watch a Jordanian news broadcast?  A Tunisian television show?

How the hell would *you* know whether Muslims are "taking action" or not?

Tell me this:  In your experiences with Muslim media, Muslim society organizations, and Muslim blogs/message boards, what proportion of topics would you say are in support of extremism.  What's the for/against ratio, in your broad experience? I don't think the poster's intention was to say they're doing nothing. I would assume most people would admit they have relatively limited access/exposure/knowledge of Muslim media, other than what most people know. I think he was merely trying to point out that external forces will have only a fraction of the benefit that internal forces could make. It was more of an observation on what has happened in the past, and solutions that were found in similar situations. I don't think the intent was actually to attack anyone, or imply that he's familiar enough with the Muslim community to understand it all. Just that no matter what we do on the outside, the change has to come from within to be substantial.  This is not about what their media is saying. He is talking about the 'moderate' Muslims out there(brothers, sisters, FRIENDS, wives, cousins, neighbors, ect.) that must know their fundamentalist relations are up to something.  Maybe they even know some specifics. We want these people to come forward and inform if they really care for peace. 
The way we know that they are not taking action is because these extremist do not live on an island. They have family and friends that have to look the other way.  These are the people he wants to take action.   Indeed. yes, i hope that the horrible action these shitstains on humanity undertook will have the effect that people who see some1 taking a "vacation" to Jemen, Syria, IS-controlled teritory will report this to the proper authorities. I hope that the person(s) who knew what this filth was up to feel the burden of shame till the end of their days. **If you see a girl wearing a hijab, instead of going "What the hell is she doing in my country? Why won't she go back?", buy her a cup of coffee. Perhaps a slice of cake. Watch what happens.**

**Do not be surprised if the girl bursts into tears, because your out-of-left-field act of compassion and kindness will be an overwhelming reassurance that she is not subject to misplaced prejudice and unfair bigotry.**

I am someone who is born in one of those countries that always wants to see our immigrants go back "home".

When I went to university, there was a woman I met in my third year, who wore the hijab all the time. I always thought it was very strange, because she did not seem very much like a Muslim to me. She was friends with all of my friends, who were atheist or agnostic. She never prayed during the day. She once joked to me that she wears the hijab because she can hide her ipod inside when she is at the mosque. I tried to be kind to her, but there was this strangeness I felt, always.

In our final year of studies, she disappeared for some time. Stopped coming to lecture. One of my friends later told me, she had run away from home. Her father arranged a marriage for her with a man from Pakistan. She did not want to go, she was in love with someone from here.

We helped her for weeks. She moved between our flats, staying here and there for a few days at a time. I became better friends with her then. It was difficult not to. She was struggling so much. I let her stay on my sofa for two weeks, I think.

She told me she was the middle sister. Her oldest sister was married already, to a man they never met before. They never saw each other again. 

The night she ran away, her youngest sister gave her all of her pocket money, helped her out the window.

She lost almost everyone. Her family disowned her. She could not go to see her friends at the mosque anymore. She saw her sister during at breaks in secondary school only. 

She moved into a flat with another girl eventually. She eats, lives, works, is happier now.

What I wanted to say, I think, is that the girl behind the hijab is worth knowing, often. I believe I am a socialist, a liberal, a free-thinker. Your beliefs are important, your religion can shape you. There is nobody who can tell you what to believe. But I wonder if there is a limit, sometimes. I find it so difficult to reconcile sometimes with what happened in Paris.

I don't know what to think. Maybe I just want to talk about when once I was nice to the girl in the hijab. &gt; I always thought it was very strange, because she did not seem very much like a Muslim to me.

Besides your kindness, this is an important part of your story - there are many, many Muslims who are great people like the one you describe, and there are also many who are like her family. But the existence of one side doesn't negate the other, which you and the OP are great reminders of. I think muslim girls suffer the most in our society (ofc besides orphans and kids who are starving). I was once a muslim for 15 years and one of the reasons I left that backwards community was because of the way the girls were treated. I can tell you that most girls and women wearing a hijab are suffering more than youd think until their brainwashing is complete to the point of them being content with being property. Whenever I see a group of women in hijabs I always get mad at their husband/father even though that may not be right. It's just so heartbreaking.  &gt;buy her a cup of coffee. Perhaps a slice of cake. Watch what happens.

I think that would be weird. Instead I'll just treat them like normal people. Nice post though. Just treating someone like anyone else and being respectful is enough. I was registering people to vote back during the 2004 presidential election and struck up a conversation with a young Muslim girl attending the U of A. She told me she was really suprised that I even talked to her and that she felt like people avoided her and acted like she wasn't there. She said that she felt invisible and that made me really sad.  Yeah this is the issue here for me. We can't give Muslims special treatment out of fear either. I'd rather treat them as equals as it is supposed to be in a modern democracy. How did you get the title orange? The Flying Spaghetti Monster blessed it. So, pasta sauce?

 Much spaghetti  Us mods do that for submissions we want to draw attention to. This was worth drawing attention to. Thank you. And special thanks to the OP for this post. Right. That's pretty cool, thanks for answering. (His balls are orange too, y'see?)
(I just noticed this myself) Ironically, because these attacks make countries rather cold to Muslims, that makes said Muslims better targets for recruitment because they feel alienated and this creates resentment over time. It's not entirely ironic. Recruiting from refugees, war victims, outcasts unhappy minorities is the bread and butter of religious and non-religious paramilitary organization. Religions target the vulnerable especially.

Still, we basically need some more perspective from the French here, because this kind of thing is not that new in France and I have doubts about the predictability of their reaction.  That's the goal.  The Fundamentalists use extreme tactics to court an extreme response.  They want to provoke a conflict so that they can be 'victimized' by the big, bad, secularists. Which is ludicrous because it's a fight they can't really win, unless we voluntarily surrender. That's just it.  They aren't trying to win.  Fighting the fight is its own reward.  It's been 1,300 years so far, and they're just getting warmed up. As many have said, there's nothing ironic about it, that's one of the main goals of the attacks. 

Why did Hitler have such a quick and dramatic rise to power? Because following World War 1, the sanctions placed on Germany essentially made Germans second class citizens. They were marginalised from the rest of society, and a new generation was judged on the actions of their elders. People are easy to manipulate when placed in a situation like this.  &gt; "What the hell is she doing in my country? Why won't she go back?", buy her a cup of coffee. Perhaps a slice of cake. Watch what happens.

Last time i heard of someone doing this, was in my town. The girl got beat up by her own brothers for talking with someone that was:

* White
* Western
* Not-Muslim
* Male Hey, don't tell stories like this. It's



Islamophobic. Quick! Hide truths when they go against my beliefs! &gt;If you see a girl wearing a hijab, instead of going "What the hell is she doing in my country? Why won't she go back?", buy her a cup of coffee. Perhaps a slice of cake. Watch what happens.

She'll say no and I'll go home and cry. I really enjoyed reading your post. I'm an ex-Muslim myself and it was really hard for me to come to terms with becoming an atheist, because of family issues that would arise.

 However at worst, it would have been an argument with my family and a cold shoulder. None of my family would be at risk because of it. This really opened my eyes.  Even becoming an atheist from a relatively liberal Catholic family was difficult. I can't imagine if there were potentially severe repercussions from the society at large. "If the two schmucks who attacked"    
Reading an (ex-) Muslim use a Yiddish word struck me as hilariously ironic. 

 &gt;If you see a girl wearing a hijab, instead of going "What the hell is she doing in my country? Why won't she go back?", buy her a cup of coffee. Perhaps a slice of cake. Watch what happens.

Speaking only for my experience here in the US*, its extremely rare for me to see a woman in a hijab.

When I do, 99.9% of the time there is a man (presumably her husband) with her and its clear from his body language that it would not be welcome if I tried to talk to her.

I would love the chance to get to know a Muslim woman and hear her personal experiences, but the insular nature of the Muslim community makes it very hard.

*Edit - Midwest, USA, large college town but I stay away from campus because the parking sucks. &gt; Speaking only for my experience here in the US, its extremely rare for me to see a woman in a hijab.

I see women in hijabs around my neighborhood in Denver all the time.

&gt; When I do, 99.9% of the time there is a man (presumably her husband) with her and its clear from his body language that it would not be welcome if I tried to talk to her.

This part is true, they tend to be gathered in groups or accompanied by a male adult. I suppose I should have added:  I live in a big college town, but I don't venture onto campus very often (parking is awful)...I suppose if I hung out there more often, I would have a higher chance of exposure to Muslim people of both genders. &gt; they tend to be gathered in groups or accompanied by a male adult.

That's because Muslim women are (sort of) obligated to have a male companion with them when travelling. The male companion must either be her husband, or any adult male in her (or her husband's) family.

If she can't get a suitable male to accompany her, then she can travel with a group of women that she trusts (basically female family/friends).

Additionally, the only time a Muslim woman doesn't need a companion is if she trusts that her travel will be safe. Which is very common in this century, since we can just travel with private cars and minimize any encounters with possibly dangerous people/situations. Here in Berlin you see women wearing hijabs all the time. I see them everyday in the street, but I've never really been in a social situation with one where it would feel appropriate to approach them. The Muslim community, mainly Turkish here, is rather insular, even those who have been here for generations stick together and mainly speak Turkish. I would love the opportunity to get to know this side of the city I live in better, but despite living in the same place, our circles don't seem to overlap.  Do they even want to overlap? 

Didn't Germany have to bring in Turk cops to police Turkish neighborhoods because the locals refused to cooperate with German cops?  &gt; Do they even want to overlap? 

When you have 3rd and 4th generation people living in Germany not being able to speak anywhere near accent free: no they do not want to overlap and integrate. Live in Southern California and see women in hijabs fairly often.  Never once had the feeling that if I walked up and offered cake and coffee that it would be welcomed. I can't speak for Southern California, but the Muslim women that wear a hijab that I've encountered in Chicago have been friendly. On my college campus these Muslim students held several events, often with invited scholars, that were open to the public and welcomed questions and discussions.   &gt; its extremely rare for me to see a woman in a hijab.

I live in a college town so it's not unusual to see hijabs.  I'd wager maybe 5-10% of the female students wear them.  I have seen full-on burka's ... once.  In the local walmart about 4 yrs ago.  THAT was drawing stares.  3 women and 1 guy.  The only other place I've ever seen a burka was at Hersey park last summer.  About 3 of them.  Some stares but didn't seem too out of place.   &gt; burka's

What do you think apostrophes do? ma'kin' thin'gs mo're plur'al might sound a bit trite, but "random acts of kindness^tm" can be entirely powerful to anyone.

do it.

dont add "god bless" at the end. dont add some atheistic this or that. dont allude to anything.

just do it just to do it. I'm in SoCal and  see quite a few.  But I have noticed that, of the ones with no accent, meaning that they were probably born here or came as very small children, they all seem to be at an age where they aren't entirely out of the house-college age.  I imagine that most of them will give it up once they are on their own and paying their own bills.

Edit:  Is there a university where the parking doen't suck? &gt;Edit: Is there a university where the parking doen't suck?

I think probably not. I live in Columbia, MO and there is a fair sized Islamic center right next to the Mizzou campus. Last semester during my Geography of the Middle East class we went there on a "field trip" of sorts and heard from a fellow student.  Come to the Deep South, nice population.  How deep is deep?

I get tattooed in Atlanta and I try to ride my motorcycle(s) down to TN/NC once a year in late summer.

Not sure if those quality as the deep south though...I mean people from Corpus Christie sometimes call people from Dallas "northerners" lol. I'm talking deep Louisiana south. Around the Baton Rouge/Lafayette area.  Yeah I've never been that far south, but I would like to get down that way eventually.

 Food is good, but the education system leaves a lot to be desired. And the roads. The roads are terrible. ...or the west coast. Lots of hijabs here.

Edit: replied to wrong person, but should still be clear enough. In the past 20 or so years, there has been a large increase in the Muslim population in Philadelphia.  When I first moved here, it was very rare to see anyone in religious garb (except for the suit and bow tie NOI crowd).  Now, it is very common to see women in full hijab, pretty much everywhere I go. &gt;I'm as godless as a bagful of decapitated puppies.

Hey, I like puppies.

&gt;They want to make it infinitely, ineffably and irrevocably harder for both Muslims and ex-Muslims to go about their lives peacefully in the countries that they have immigrated to.

Would it be fair to say that the over-all negative reaction to Muslims is part of the goal when people commit these acts?  That they want to stir up strife between Muslim immigrants and their new neighbors so that these Muslims aren't tempted to further integrate into their adopted society?

&gt;buy her a cup of coffee.

See I tried this in college.  Damn she was cute.  Didn't even get a first date.  

&gt;Thank you for your time.

Thanks for the post.  

 Muslim women aren't allowed to marry non-Muslims.  She might have dated you if she'd been allowed to, just so you know.  By the same token, Muslim men aren't allowed to marry anyone who isn't part of an Abrahamic faith (Christian, Jewish, or Muslim).

Source: My ex-husband was thinking about converting to Islam for a little while.  He dropped the idea when I told him I wasn't converting to Islam for him. I am an ex-muslim. Now I am an atheist but still live in a country where it is a crime to be an atheist (UAE) and if they find out I would get imprisoned then deported. We are talking about Dubai here. These people fool the world using their media to show how open-minded they are  but they are not. I live with a sense of fear and insecurity because of them and for this reason -and many more- I try to tell the world Islam is NOT by any context a religion of peace. It is the religion of indoctrinating children into hate, religion of threats and intimidation. Religion of terrorism. Terrorism does not have to deal with bombs and guns exclusively. It is a religion of terrorism. Additionally, average muslim people here and saudi arabia would absolutely justify the recent terrorism acts in France. Believe me when I say this, most muslims do not condemn these attacks! Few of them are good people because they do not take Islam seriously and by definition they are not really muslims but those who commit to Islam, do not condemn these attacks. I will do my best to find my way outta this hell-hole although these attacks do not make it easier for me as it says in my passport "muslim" which I really despise too. Sorry if this sounds like rambling but I needed to get this out of my chest.     Stay safe, bud. Thanks for sharing.

Also, Bill Maher was ridiculed for pointing out what you are saying. He was just stating facts. The truth isn't always pleasant. 

That said, you can't exactly rely on polls from countries that don't have free speech. Like this poster says, it fucks with your mind.  I love Bill! I know he gets lots of hate and/or criticism but I personally believe he's a very very intelligent man. I'd elect him president.  Holy fucking shit. 

A country where it is crime to be an atheist: that is hideously perverted. 

So tell me, in how many other countries is this the law? To my knowledge, almost all the Arabic gulf countries. I am from Syria. Syria is fine with secularism, actually, they are fine with anything that does not include criticizing the dictator regime.  Pretty much every country that has sharia law. I can't begin to imagine your situation.  I live in a deeply Christian part of the United States (more churches per capita than any other city in the US), and I believe it is important for atheists to stand up and make their voices heard.  It's hard enough being an atheist among the blindly faithful without the law being against you.  I just want to offer a bit of support and hope you keep the (lack of) faith.  Good luck, dude. Stay strong, my friend! This is the most scariest response I have come across all day. It's disturbing that the average followers do not condemn the attack.  Islam is an awfully conservative religion. The moderates are worse than a lot of ultra-conservative christians.

Take a gander at the pew poles about what muslims in each country believe about the way things ought to be.

http://www.pewforum.org/2013/04/30/the-worlds-muslims-religion-politics-society-overview/

http://www.pewforum.org/files/2013/04/gsi2-overview-9.png

 Nope. Why embrace them for their misguided beliefs? Just ignore them or treat them like you would any other random person. They need no special treatment because others of their religion are evil.  My son in law migrated to Australia from Afghanistan, by leaky boat and unaccompanied at the age of 15. He spent some time in detention before being granted a Visa. He arrived as a fully indocrinated Muslim. My daughter, flirted with Islam in the early years of their relationship. I said nothing about it, as a lifelong Athiest I knew it was their choice alone. I'm pleased that Islam didn't hold for her, but would not object if it had.

We love my son-in law like a son, and a few years ago, I sponsored his application - He is now an Australian citizen.

At a recent barbeque, my son in law addressed the whole table, which is very rare, as he is extremely shy. He thanked us for accepting him as a son, and then announced his own departure from Islam. I've never been so proud. 

And then he asked if somebody could pass him a slice of roast pork. &gt;The reason for this is that even though I'm no longer physically located in the country in question, the government of said country will employ an Italian-mob like strategy wherein they would harass and even harm my family in an attempt to goad me into going back to face the music.

Stay safe, keep up with friends and leave traces. Don't forget to seek asylum somewhere else as a backup plan.  I don't see a lot of women in hijabs around my 8,000 person town in Kentucky... but the next one i do see gets free coffee*!



*Expires 2/5/15. Valid only at participating Kentucky locations. Current prices and participation based on independent operator decision. Prices may vary. Not valid in conjunction with any other offer, discount, coupon or cake slices. Cash value 0/20th of 1 cent. Limit one coffee per person per visit. Plus tax if applicable. Price of required purchase posted on menu board. Coupon may not be transferred, copied or duplicated in any way or transmitted via electronic media. 2001 Me. Kentucky here as well. Glasgow, that is. Which side of the state you on? I definitely don't see many Kentuckians on Reddit, much less /r/atheism. Haha Thank you for sharing your thoughtful insights. Thank you for this post.  I've felt for a while that while these attacks are very much a form of vengeance on 'people who have insulted islam' they are also an attempt at trying to force muslim immigrants and the greater proportion of western society into a position where they can't help but be at odds with one another and dislike one another.  A lot of these attacks are an attempt at creating more violence; extremists want a religious war between the west and muslim people that right now, doesn't solidly exist on either side.

I don't know what the solution is.  But the sad fact is these attacks are really god damn effective at creating distrust.  

*EDIT:grammer Everyone on Reddit needs to hear this. Everyone ~~on Reddit~~ in the western world needs to ~~hear~~ understand this. :-) You must be applauded for this writing. At the beginning I feared that here might be coming another warning from a former Muslim about how Islam is really bad and we must fear it. The twist appealing to civility towards Muslims took me a bit by surprise since there was too much fear mongering to be read, in the line of they're all evil and such. Thanks for reaffirming that the right reaction is not islamophobic but integrative. &gt; If you see a girl wearing a hijab, instead of going "What the hell is she doing in my country? Why won't she go back?", buy her a cup of coffee. Perhaps a slice of cake. Watch what happens.

Having been raised in a reasonably tolerant place, I'm not going to be thinking, "Go back to your country," not least because my country &amp; hers might be the same). Or buying her a cup of coffee unless I know her. I don't think it's a great leap of logic or compassion to figure out that many Muslims aren't terrorists. **But Muslims, those who can and those who will make the most impact, need to speak out the most.** I understand from our perspective it seems wise for muslims to speak out, but I feel that may be the point (or one of them) this guy was trying to make. Moderate Muslims can't speak out against this out of fear. If not for themselves, then for others in their circle of family and friends who may be more directly in the sights of extremists. This is starting to sound like stories we have heard from the Iron Curtain, where neighbors would turn each other in to The Authorities in return for benefits. Prove your worth to your betters by betraying your peers. Attempts are made to make that kinda thing fly here in the West too. "Are you now or have you ever been.." sometimes more successfully than others. 

Speaking out against violence is simply encouraging The Eye of Sauron to turn on you next. Mixing my obscure references again, the first lesson in How Not To Be Seen is Not To Stand Up.  &gt;If you see a girl wearing a hijab, instead of going "What the hell is she doing in my country? Why won't she go back?", buy her a cup of coffee. Perhaps a slice of cake. Watch what happens.
&gt; Do not be surprised if the girl bursts into tears, because your out-of-left-field act of compassion and kindness will be an overwhelming reassurance that she is not subject to misplaced prejudice and unfair bigotry.

Done If i see a girl in a hijab or a burka im usually afraid to talk to them for fear that someone from their community would report back to their father, brother or husband and theyll get beaten for talking to a man they werent related to, let alone buy them a coffee. Im sure not all Muslims face this issue, but im pretty sure some do, and i dont want to make life harder for a girl that already has things pretty tough.

Out of 1 billion Muslims there are only a few thousand terrorists, and some number of financial or otherwise supporters. There is the consistent use of religious arguments to justify inexcusable behaviour, and i think this is partly rooted in Islam's fundamental xenophobia and intolerance for other faiths. How many terrorist attacks in the last 100 years can you name with any religion other than Islam as a motivation? I cant think of any. The IRA were catholic but their motivation was political. I was going to sat maybe the uyghers but then i looked them up...  sunni islam...

Any? Any at all? Not all Muslims are violent religious extremists but its feeling more and more like all violent religious extremists are Muslims. There are at least 100000 Isis members alone.  How can you say only a few thousand are terrorists?, What of the many polls thst show widespread support for these terrorists? Could this be stickied for a while? It's honestly one of the best posts I've ever read here, and definitely one of the most insightful things I'be ever heard on Islamic extremists randomly buying muslim girls pieces of cake. yea that will go over well and won't be creepy at all. Your analysis seems right. 

I have always wondered about the dynamics between moderate muslims and radical muslims.

All of the muslims I have met seem like nice, kind people.  I just never got how they allowed themselves to be silent when the crazies do the stupid shit that they do.

I wondered whether it was because they were being bullied, like you said, or because they secretly hated the west and wanted to undermine it.

Thanks for saying something about it. I hope more do the same. An upvote for you good sir and peace be upon you and your family.


Now let's talk frankly. I agree with your sentiment and I agree with your request. I hope we don't see any retaliation on muslims because of this attack. Now that being said we still have a problem. We have a problem with extremist forces within Islam attempting to force their will on countries around the world. It's a problem when they do it in Iraq or Syria. It's my problem when they do it in my country. 


They're doing by incitement. They're doing it by calling for lone wolves. They're doing it through madrassa's and websites and training camps and they're doing it with boatloads of money to ensure these psycho's have weapons, armour and training. 


In most cases these people are known to police and they follow a simple profile. Young 18-29, disenfranchised, radical muslim and having gone overseas for training. We know this, we know who probably will be the next 'lone wolf'. Our intelligence services track them and our police have run ins with them. 


So here's my question, how do get rid of them and/or contain them in a civilized society, because just sitting back and waiting for the axe to fall isn't working for me anymore. I don't want to treat every muslim as a terrorist, but when most terrorists are muslim it's a problem for me and one we need to solve before we start opening camps. We (the west) deport any radicalized folks that are immigrants or visiting.  If native folk (in the west) want to go fight for the terrorists, we let them.  Then we never let them come back.  If they aren't immigrants and they are caught trying to be terrorists, we throw them in prison for a really long time. Your first two paragraphs cut to the core of why freedom of speech is important. That which you are not allowed to question has total control over you.   
  
I have a number of muslim friends from school, and never viewed them in a different light.  Race or faith only separate us if we allow them to; however, only one of them allows us a "choice."    
  
I agree that many of the fundamentalists (we could use extremists/militants/terrorists here, but fundamentalist is a more appropriate term as they exist in all groups) desire the criticism of others as it forces compliance of it's members.  It is an "either with us, or against us" mentality taken to the extreme.  
  
I feel terrible for the situation that you find yourself in.  No one should have to suffer for honest criticism like that.  Best of luck. Similar point from Juan Cole:

&gt; We have a model for response to terrorist provocation and attempts at sharpening the contradictions. It is Norway after Anders Behring Breivik committed mass murder of Norwegian leftists for being soft on Islam. The Norwegian government launched no war on terror. They tried Breivik in court as a common criminal. They remained committed to their admirable modern Norwegian values.

&gt; Most of France will also remain committed to French values of the Rights of Man, which they invented. But an insular and hateful minority will take advantage of this deliberately polarizing atrocity to push their own agenda. Europes future depends on whether the Marine LePens are allowed to become mainstream. Extremism thrives on other peoples extremism, and is inexorably defeated by tolerance.

http://www.juancole.com/2015/01/sharpening-contradictions-satirists.html read this post

get inspired as fuck

go out to Muslim neighborhood and see a girl in a hijab

goes to say hi, and ask her out for coffee

wake up with 12 stab wounds in a hospital Or you wake up and see that she's been honor killed in the morning paper. Yea, I feel like this would really only work for other women...  Excellent post with excellent points. You are a wonderful person to have the sense and awareness to make said points. Je suis Charlie. I'm a 22 year old from Germany. I have turkish parents, both were born in Turkey and immigrated here at a younger age. I always considered myself turkish, but I stopped with the urge to lable myself. I was born in Germany, have relatives half a world away, was raised among germans and immigrants from all over europe and I speak three languages fluently. I've learned not to let myself define by a piece of paper on which some letters are supposed to tell me what my identity is.
My parents, though always loving, supportive and caring towards me, are religiously pretty fundamentalist, I have come to realize in these past years. We were watching the news and my mother was sad because some radicals bombed a place and people died. The moment I told her why they allegedly bombed Charlie Hebdo, her facial expression changed immediately. She didn't say it out loud but I could tell. She was saying 'well they had it coming'.

As a child I was really into god. I didn't pray very often but I didn't even question his existence. Then I got into high school. Not only came I to realize that good and bad people are everywhere, independent on religion, I also got tolerant towards everyone, no matter which race, gender, sexuality or religion .. a few teachers I had had huge influences on me and I'm so glad that they did, because otherwise I would've turned out just like my parents.

My parents are not against christians or other religions but what they do, is extremely look down upon anyone who isnt muslim. They don't respect others beliefs ... which was one the first things that contradicted with what I learned from school, friends, life in general. Be kind and respect other people. The more years passed the more I distanced myself from Islam, eventually not believing in god entirely. My parents never knew though and knowing what kind of importance religion has in their lives, I never would've dared to tell them.

Anyway one day, it came out though and I basically confessed. I don't believe in god. And the thing happened which I knew would happen in this scenario: They said that I'm just confused and called the guy who is running the mosque in the area. My dad had a heart attack, because of what I just said. So I agreed to go to the mosque and talk with the guy and he was supposed to help me 'find my way back', no one cared what I wanted. So I went to him a few times and we were talking about stuff, but all he kept saying was the same old stuff I was hearing my all life so I just stopped. My parents still think that I believe now again and I keep it that way for the moment. I will finish film school soon and once I'm out of here, I don't know if I'm ever going to able to act normal around them when all I'm doing is to pretend.

The worst part was that I was denied the one thing, of which I was always so proud of (being respectful and open-minded) from the two most important persons in my life. It really sucks. Islam is one of the most discriminatory belief systems to exist.  I try to be open to everything and let people do their own thing but Islam and its followers have "done fucked it up" basically.  Its really hard for me to say i think people need a chance when the religion they follow fucks it up and kill people.

I dont believe in any sort of God and against all the BS that come with it here in the US but FFS this is stupid....

Religion is bad....no other way to say it.  You need an old invisible ninja wizard to tell you not to kill people you're fucked in the head.  Same goes all over the world.  Religion needs to go the fuck away.
 That took me longer than 5 minutes to read, but that is my fault because I'm a slow reader. Thank you for the alternate insight. Those 7 minutes were not wasted. Unlike my god damn general studies in college so far. I respect you so much.  I was also raised Muslim, and I know that my atheism would cause a lot of harm to my family in the Middle East if anyone knew about it. It is difficult.  Know that you aren't alone, friend.  Thank you for sharing your perspective.   ^-^  I live outside Dearborn ,Mich. it has 30 percent middle easterners. They have been here for generations. I know lots of Muslims and Arabs . We do not walk around in fear. there are really no problems.  I don't get where the animosity comes from. Tldr: Be nice.

I can handle that. I look to the day when radical moslems are no bigger threat than the westboro baptists.  i agree with what you say here but i'm still gonna call then out on their bullshit religion. christians too. also jews. and everything else too. cuz it's all crap. people are dying for lies and it makes me ragey. i can't promise the rest of the world will agree with you, but i'm not going to be any more or less abrasive about religion just because this happened. though it would be nice if people would recognize the core problem. First off,

&gt;If you see a girl wearing a hijab, instead of going "What the hell is she doing in my country? Why won't she go back?", buy her a cup of coffee. Perhaps a slice of cake.

Yes.  But this sort of compassion should be shown to everyone, regardless of religion, gender, sexual orientation, color, race, creed, whatever.  Pity that it takes something so tragic as this to remind us to be kind to eachother.

Now, I have some questions:

&gt; They want to make it infinitely, ineffably and irrevocably harder for both Muslims and ex-Muslims to go about their lives peacefully in the countries that they have immigrated to.

To what end?  What purpose of theirs do you think this would serve?  What would you say is their intended end-state?   It's been mentioned above but I'll say it again for you. The purpose for this is to make the Muslims (or ex Muslims) singled out and create an us VS them mentality. This can be quite effective for recruitment (Let's hope it isn't though) . And if any muslim men see the muslim girl having coffee with you, she's dead meat! Her uncles or cousins will knock her off to protect their "honor". And they might come after you, too.

We need to set up an "underground railway" and chains of safe houses for the victims (especially women) who are the victims of this violent sadistic religion. Christians faced the same traumatic response - the Inquisition was horrendous - as has been everything else since.

The difference being westerners stood up with courage to the bullshit of their religion instead of cowering like quivering petals.

You have no sympathy. Stand up and fight - it is the only solution. Change MUST come from within. 

Asking westerners to understand your predicament is tantamount to tacit obsequiousness of the oppression in order to spare yourself any discomfort. Hundreds of thousands of westerners were torutured, punished and put to death standing up to the church - time for you to drag your shit ball culture into the 21st century by having a revolution and enlightenment.


Sorry - no soup for you. yeah, ok... but really...

all the appeals need to be made to muslims.... those who submit to the will of allah...

islam has to change.  

it's that simple.

tolerance of religious idiocy has to end.
 I think this is the truth that people don't want to accept. 

Islam is fundamentally flawed. Islam doesn't assimilate into Western society unless the Muslims act as shitty Muslims. Hug a muslim =  terrorist lose?
I like it.
 What I want to hear from believing Muslims is, "We need to reform Islam." I don't want to hear what I've been hearing, which is, "These maniacs don't represent Islam." Yes, yes they do represent Islam. Islam has become The Religion of Maniacs just as much as Wheaties is The Breakfast of Champions. This took me way longer than 5min to read.... I'm a slow reader :( &gt;If you see a girl wearing a hijab, instead of going "What the hell is she doing in my country? Why won't she go back?", buy her a cup of coffee. Perhaps a slice of cake. Watch what happens.

Her brother and father will stone her and throw her on a pyre for talking to a man she's not related to? I have to admit I've been spoiling for a fight as I've been learning more about Islam over the past few days. I still believe it represents the worst that religion is capable of being. I want it gone, but I also know that prejudice and violence of any kind will only make it worse. There doesn't seem to be any way to defuse this bomb. I'd totally buy her a cup of coffee and listen to her for a while. The problem is that when I see that hijab (or the more extreme stuff) I expect certain repercussions due to (sub-)cultural differences. I don't like the idea of her brothers kicking my door in because I approached their sister the wrong way. That hijab reminds me of a strict mindset that I'd rather stay as far away from as possible. This is not just about the religion. Terrible integration politics have led to growing enclaves in major cities that ofter follow their own rules. 

As to your other point, I couldn't agree more. If we give into our fears the terrorists win. After 9/11 the US handed the terrorists victory on a silver platter with the patriot act. I refuse to be scared. As a former Muslim, and born as one, this is very well written. Thank you.  thank you for this great post!! I am also a "muslim" and I've had a real hard time accepting these events. I have not been able to understand why one would commit something this horrible for one's own religion. But after reading your ideas, it all makes so much sense! Realising this also makes me ill to the core! I live in sweden but have in my 25 years never been the subject of someone's racism. But I honestly don't think that it will be like this for much longer. people are getting bolder witj their anti-islam slurs and there have been several attack at mosques already and a facist anti-immigrants party is gaining more and more members and power. Never thought that I would be scared for living here, but that is changing! A friend of mine asked a hijab-wearing girl if she wanted to have a cup of tea with him. A second later, some Somali guy approached and said he'd stab him if he didn't step away from the girl, so be careful with this advice, especially if you are white.

Otherwise, thank you for a great article. 

I have one question though: why don't muslims "clean up" among their own? If I was part of a karate club and 1% of the members made everyone else look like shitheels, the rest of us would kick them out or report them to the police. Being part of the group, we would likely know who the bad seeds were.

The only thing that would prevent us from doing so, would be if we did not really find their actions all that atrocious, or if the problem was much bigger, e.g. if they represented 30% of the members. This is a very powerful, personal account of how to deal with the murderous stupidity that is the Charlie Hebdo attacks. Thank you for sharing. Thank you for this! I see a lot of ignorant comments here so I implore the author and other more reasonable people to realize they come from people who have mental filers that don't allow alternate points of view to have any impact on their current beliefs. Kind of ironic for athiests, I suppose. Treat humans with dignity and humanity wins. Let the propoganda and bullshit override critical thinking, we all die a miserable death. You all will notice, if you care to, that everytime humanity starts standing up to oppression, it's followed by divide and conquer wars flaring up between neighbors. Distractions from the truth. I agree with you on everything. I'm an ex-Muslim too. I'm a Palestinian born in Kuwait who immigrated to Canada, thus I have quite a wide perception when it comes to diversity. I come from a liberal family too, and that's how Palestinians generally are, they're quite liberal and open to concepts they've not heard of because of how well educated they are. I'm currently living in Kuwait with my family, and everyone knows that I'm irreligious.
My mother always hopes that one day I do come back to religion, but never once tried forcing it on me. She's quite religious and knows that forcing religion on someone will do nothing but cause hatred, and introduced Islam to me in quite a liberal manner, and showed me that it's widely misunderstood. I don't dislike the religion, I just don't see myself needing guidance from it. I live a simple life with one concept: do not hurt anyone. My mother thinks that this concept that I live by is something that every Muslim needs to abide by, and that's why she hasn't condemned me for being irreligious or gay. She claims that if she takes the extreme path of killing me now, she'd completely eliminate the chance of my ever returning to Islam.
Islam is taught incorrectly, and in quite an aggressive manner. But that's because of how Arabs and North Africans are in their nature. Arabs, Arabized, and North Africans are very traditional, conservative, and insecure in their nature because of the segregated culture that they grew up in. But I find it ironic because Arabs are a major panethnic group. The only commonality between Arabs is the fact that they all speak the Arabic language. The Arabic language has united people of different ethnic groups (Levantines, North Africans, Egyptians, Babylonians, Kurds, and Arabs from the Arabian peninsula). Middle Easterners don't realize how much power they hold when all of these different ethnic groups are united under one language. It's quite unfortunate that the Arab culture is nomadic and uncivilized in many ways. Nice post. I would hope that people can get over narrow mindedness and learn to think for themselves and make there own decisions.

I'm fed up seeing negativity of Islam shared by others on my time line with statements made that the sharer hasn't even looked into. Just as an example how many people share the usual sob story or BS Facebook privacy settings change nonsense without actually checking if it's real.

The only thing I can't imagine turning out well would be my offer of coffee or cake to a girl in a hijab, it may be taken as an advance just like any other girl. I wouldn't like to make anyone feel uncomfortable I think gentle pleasantries to our fellow men and women regardless of religion or race  &gt; If you see a girl wearing a hijab, instead of going "What the hell is she doing in my country? Why won't she go back?", buy her a cup of coffee. Perhaps a slice of cake. Watch what happens.

She'll be stoned, cut into pieces or bathed in acid for daring to become approached at and talked to / talk to a male.
I don't think I'd want to risk a death of some innocent person just because I want to make them feel safe and welcome.

Too many articles out there already like that. &gt;If you see a girl wearing a hijab, instead of going "What the hell is she doing in my country? Why won't she go back?", buy her a cup of coffee. Perhaps a slice of cake. Watch what happens.

I would like to do this but how do I approach them? What do I say without them thinking I am creepy as hell or nuts? To tell the truth, maybe just smiling and being polite is enough.  Offering total strangers a piece of random cake would be seen by most as a bit weird, at least. "They hope that such an environment will make for fertile ground for prejudice, bigotry and intolerance to manifest and fester."

If liberty is a virtue of liberal societies it seems that it should hold that intolerant ideas should have no place in such a society. I do believe we have a civic duty to challenge intolerant ideas (freedom of speech, freedom of sexual orientation, gender equality, the right to leave the religion) and that we should not conflate that social debate with accusations "predjudice and bigotry".

"If you see a girl wearing a hijab, instead of going "What the hell is she doing in my country? Why won't she go back?", buy her a cup of coffee. Perhaps a slice of cake. Watch what happens."

If I saw a girl wearing a KKK robe, instead of going "What the hell is she doing in my country?" I would ask what the hell are her _ideas_ doing in my country. I say intolerant ideas are fair game for criticism and people should stand up for liberal principles and not back away for fear of social rejection.




 It is very important to recognize that criticizing ideas is exactly what we should be doing right now. People are accused far too often of being bigoted or even racist when speaking openly and honestly about some of the truly horrific ideas that are taught in religious spaces.

Personally I don't want anyone, regardless of faith or ethnicity, teaching teaching adults and children that death is an appropriate punishment for being homosexual, for leaving a group, for drawing a comic, for adultery, etc. These ideas have very real consequences, and contribute to the violence we've been seeing in the last few days. I often think about the cycle of attack and retaliation the the west and middle east are stuck in. Both sides feel completely justified in continuing to kill each other, as revenge for the lives lost in the last attack, which was a response to the attack before, and on and on and on. 

It's a fight between ideologies, so nobody can win. But is it too late to just not play? To stop retaliating? Could it be that simple? 

I don't think it is that simple, but I really wish it could be. 

I would much rather get along with Muslims then feel like this conflict is only going to end when both sides have annihilated each other. &gt;I don't think it is that simple

Maybe it's not simply simple...but it's a hell of a lot less complicated than we're told.

&gt; It's a fight between ideologies,

Or so the story goes.  In reality these ideologies are manufactured by those with the money and the agenda.  If we want peace, we need to find the snake heads.  

I read in Better Angels of our Nature, about a study on Palestinian suicide bombers.

[This is the best link I could get in a pinch](http://www.beyondintractability.org/essay/suicide-bombers)

Essentially money and social acceptance are the biggest incentives used to get suicide bombers (one brother sacrifices himself, and his family gets enough money to buy wives for the other brothers).  Ideology is not the driving force, rather it plays a role of 

Kid: "Can I mom?" 

Mom: "Well I don't know...is it ok with allah?" 

Rich Imam: "Oh it's totes cool with allah" 

 They want to make it infinitely, ineffably and irrevocably harder for both Muslims and ex-Muslims to go about their lives peacefully in the countries that they have immigrated to.

But guess which ones they'll happily kill - the atheists - and that is why we must fear this. "If you see a girl wearing a hijab, instead of going "What the hell is she doing in my country? Why won't she go back?", buy her a cup of coffee. Perhaps a slice of cake. Watch what happens."

For starters it will be interesting to see her eat and drink int that getup. &gt;They want to make it infinitely, ineffably and irrevocably harder for both Muslims and ex-Muslims to go about their lives peacefully in the countries that they have immigrated to.

And as a free society we have an obligation to protect you from those bastards.

Sometimes when I'm in the US I get really mad at the way Persians, Arabs, and Muslims get treated. Returning from Iraq and Afghanistan it occurs to me all the time that these are the people who fled for their lives, sometimes specifically because they helped us, and came to the US to avoid the oppression of being dragged out of their homes, shot to death in the street, and left there under guard for the remainder of the day just to make an example: "Disagree and die".

I get fucking furious when I think that some of my fellow countrymen would be stupid enough to attack these people because of their race, ethnicity, or religion, because they somehow feel threatened by them. I want to yell at them, "These are the good guys you idiot! These were the people I was trying to help! Stop fucking this up!"

I know not all of those people are happy when they think of people like me as the invaders and occupiers of what used to be their homeland, but at the very least I know more about what they've gone through then all of their current neighbors. I respect them because they've become as much of a veteran of war as I have. The thing is, because of the way the world is, and what it will become, *our* war isn't going to end. The bomb maker isn't going to have a change of heart, and the suicidal thug isn't going come quietly. So even though I'm not in a uniform, and these good people no longer live in a war torn city, we still have to work together to defeat terrorism. We need trust, tolerance, co-operation, and respect, because that's exactly what these terrorist scum want to destroy. Very well written.  To the point.  5 minutes at best as the title said.  What struck me most was the phrase:They want to make it infinitely, ineffably and irrevocably harder for both Muslims and ex-Muslims to go about their lives peacefully in the countries that they have immigrated to."  After watching the news I remember saying to myself, "If Muslims keep this up the world is going to work together to try to abolish this Religion.  You have opened my eyes to a different/real side of what is going on.  Thanks. If you can get close enough to a Muslim girl to do this *watch your back* because their menfolk are watching and they are not impressed.

Aside from what they might do to *you*, think about what could happen to *her*. Moderates shelter extremists by demanding respect for all religions.

It's time people started responding publicly with: **RESPECT IS EARNED** Nice to read some truth. &gt;In the wake of what happened in France, however, I'll make an exception.

What of the much worse Boko Haram attacks ? Love it.  Thanks so much. Beautifully said, thank you.   Nicely said.  Thank you.

&gt;If you see a girl wearing a hijab, instead of going "What the hell is she doing in my country? Why won't she go back?", buy her a cup of coffee. Perhaps a slice of cake. Watch what happens.

Will do. &gt; If you see a girl wearing a hijab, instead of going "What the hell is she doing in my country? Why won't she go back?", buy her a cup of coffee. Perhaps a slice of cake. Watch what happens.

I occasionally see women wearing hijabs in my supermarket or around my community... I never think "what is she doing in my country"... I think she's an observant Muslim... as much as when I see people with black crosses on their foreheads on ash Wednesday... I'm an atheist and an American. They're welcome here as much as I am. I do however wish I could see their faces fully, I feel it can be a real block to the basic human connection, and I think Richard Herring said it best, if the problem is the uncontrollable lusts of males, take the strip they cut out for the eyes, and just put that over Muslim male's eyes, then you don't need the rest of it. :)

something bugs me that modesty has to go to that extreme, very few people have that little self control.  Still, as we've seen, there's a rise in moderate muslims, to the point where you don't even know if someone's a muslim unless you ask them, just like many christians or jews. I've read about the ex-Muslim trend, supposedly a growing phenomenon in a lot of Islamic countries. I think Egypt declared an emergency over it, though that may just be the government working towards their own ends. It takes real moral courage to even be able to live while being true to your ideas in that type of environment, I imagine.

Thank you for your honest and touching post. I'll defend any kind of critique (intellectual or not) of any topic no matter how sacred, but bigotry and discrimination against people is fucked up and bullshit. out of curiosity what were the major reasons of you leaving faith behind? My argument is that all Muslims who abide by our laws and walk of life should rise together and show that they will not tolerate what is happening with these radical nutjobs and show that they whole heartedly want rid of it as much as everyone else does. Not sure how it is in your parts, but in my area I've seen:

* News coverage from France from Muslims going to Mosques praying for the victims and telling news cameras that they are totally against the actions of these terrorists
* Multiple comics from various Arab comics against the terrorists
* Muslim leaders and clerics here in Oz openly deploring the actions of the terrorists.
* Muslim friends on facebook screaming in hatred in English and Arabic that these are not the actions they endorse, nor subscribe to. (and their religious reasonings as well)

Whenever one of these murderer nutbags does this shit someone (often on Fox news) will shout "where's the outcry from the Muslim community". It's fucking everywhere. But that doesn't make as good a sound bite especially if your viewers are generally red necks so they say "where is the outcry" because it sells more advertising revenue. /r/PeaceAndConflict  I'm as godless as a bagful of decapitated puppies. 


Beautiful. 
 Thank you for this.

Best of luck to you I don't consider you God-less, so much as God-Free. Free from the myth, and persecution that come with the lies of any religion.  Somebody is a Rollins fan!  Thank you for sharing.  To hear from another perspective is at the very least educational. &gt; They want to make it infinitely, ineffably and irrevocably harder for both Muslims and ex-Muslims to go about their lives peacefully in the countries that they have immigrated to.

Sounds like one of the tactics abusers use: Isolation I guess I take people thinking I am the embodiment of evil but doing nothing about it for granted. If I could buy her a beer I'd up-vote. Thank you for posting this! This thread has been linked to from elsewhere on reddit.


 - [/r/bestof] [An ex-Muslim, /u/apostasin, writes a very insightful, thought provoking plea, asking Redditors to take 5 minutes to read it.](http://np.reddit.com/r/bestof/comments/2rxk7p/an_exmuslim_uapostasin_writes_a_very_insightful/)


 - [/r/italy] [Niente, viene fuori che gli italiani e la mafia sono un po&amp;#x27; come i musulmani e i terroristi. grep -i italia nel post e i commenti.](http://np.reddit.com/r/italy/comments/2rxkj7/niente_viene_fuori_che_gli_italiani_e_la_mafia/)

 - [/r/antiislam] [Incredible post in /r/Atheism by an ex-muslim. This is why EVERY civilized person should oppose Islam.](http://np.reddit.com/r/antiislam/comments/2rxlrx/incredible_post_in_ratheism_by_an_exmuslim_this/)

 - [/r/shitpost] [r/atheism can stoop so low sometimes. No mention of a country, no mention of a region, just circlejerking the giant Islamophobic cock](http://np.reddit.com/r/shitpost/comments/2rxrmt/ratheism_can_stoop_so_low_sometimes_no_mention_of/)

 - [/r/Brunei] [A great post appealing to reason from an ex-Muslim (x-post r/atheism)](http://np.reddit.com/r/Brunei/comments/2rxtp9/a_great_post_appealing_to_reason_from_an_exmuslim/)

 - [/r/bestof] [Some perspective on the terrorist attacks from an ex-muslim.](http://np.reddit.com/r/bestof/comments/2rxvo8/some_perspective_on_the_terrorist_attacks_from_an/)

 - [/r/goldredditsays] [Ex-Muslim explains why, now more than ever, we need to extend a welcoming hand to Muslim communities \[+3630\]](http://np.reddit.com/r/goldredditsays/comments/2rybu0/exmuslim_explains_why_now_more_than_ever_we_need/)

 - [/r/malaysia] [Faith in humanity restored. PoV from an ex Muslim on the Paris attack](http://np.reddit.com/r/malaysia/comments/2rye53/faith_in_humanity_restored_pov_from_an_ex_muslim/)

 - [/r/TAAOfficial] [FW:Hello. I&amp;#x27;m an ex-Muslim. Please take 5 minutes of your time to read this.](http://np.reddit.com/r/TAAOfficial/comments/2ryly3/fwhello_im_an_exmuslim_please_take_5_minutes_of/)

 - [/r/exmuslim] [/u/apostasin reveals what he thinks is the real motive behind the recent terror attack to /r/atheism](http://np.reddit.com/r/exmuslim/comments/2rz9r3/uapostasin_reveals_what_he_thinks_is_the_real/)

 - [/r/exmuslim] [/u/apostasin reveals unto r/atheism what he thinks is the real reason for the recent terror attack](http://np.reddit.com/r/exmuslim/comments/2rzltt/uapostasin_reveals_unto_ratheism_what_he_thinks/)

 - [/r/syriancivilwar] [Hello. I&amp;#x27;m an ex-Muslim. Please take 5 minutes of your time to read this. : atheism \[Relevant to the Jihadist issue\]](http://np.reddit.com/r/syriancivilwar/comments/2rzm2e/hello_im_an_exmuslim_please_take_5_minutes_of/)

 - [/r/bestof] [An Ex-Muslim asks r/atheism to take five minutes out of their day to listen to his words and pass them on.](http://np.reddit.com/r/bestof/comments/2s1762/an_exmuslim_asks_ratheism_to_take_five_minutes/)

*^If ^you ^follow ^any ^of ^the ^above ^links, ^respect ^the ^rules ^of ^reddit ^and ^don't ^vote ^or ^comment. ^Questions? ^Abuse? [^Message ^me ^here.](http://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2Fmeta_bot_mailbag)*

 Well written. I've always considered the notion put forth by a connoisseur of penmanship far more seriously than that of others. Bravo, Sir/Ma'am. The bottom line is Muslims will have to root out this evil from their own ranks. Whether or not they do it is another question. IMO, there are too many people who are either delusional or have an agenda (political and economic) to make any significant changes to institutional Islam. 

The West simply needs to safeguard its freedoms jealously, but at the same time not be so tolerant as to give sanctuary to intolerant ideologies. When an ideology that supports oppression comes into conflict with freedom and equality we need to default to the latter position. 

IOW, egalitarianism ought to be the default setting for the West. &gt;"What the hell is she doing in my country? Why won't she go back?"


I dont think that is the typical reaction. At least where I am. &gt; They want to make it infinitely, ineffably and irrevocably harder for both Muslims and ex-Muslims to go about their lives peacefully in the countries that they have immigrated to.

Sadly, we have a choice. We can either watch our countries turn into the shitholes yours are, or we put a stop to this and take anyone who won't spit on the Koran and send them back.
 &gt; If you see a girl wearing a hijab, instead of going "What the hell is she doing in my country? Why won't she go back?", buy her a cup of coffee. Perhaps a slice of cake. Watch what happens.
Do not be surprised if the girl bursts into tears, because your out-of-left-field act of compassion and kindness will be an overwhelming reassurance that she is not subject to misplaced prejudice and unfair bigotry.

It's like they're life's example of Quarians...

But in all seriousness, is this an actual common attitude/fear that most have when in foreign countires?

Because if it is, I plan on going out my way to smother them with kindness.
 This is beautiful  Much love, brother Great post OP. This really made a ton of sense. Goddamn, those bastards are heinously genius. 

 Well and truly one of the best post I've read on this site, I hope you find the freedom that you seek and hopefully your fellow Muslim believer find liberation too. Very Good read. Interesting point of view thanks for sharing. Thanks for writing this. I think I can understand the position moderate muslims, liberal muslims and ex-muslims are in, being sandwiched on both sides. On one hand, they have been reminded by extremists that fundamentalism is alive and kicking, hence, they they better keep their heads down and respect their community. On the other side, they are also afraid of violent lash-backs by native white people in France against anyone who is muslim or looks muslim (such as Sikhs).  Thank you for speaking up and sharing, OP.  This is great. We need more ex-Muslims talking and posting on here. These are the voices that really understand the issues and can communicate them without risking falling into islamophobia. Kill them with kindness. In addition to the recruiting tactic, another deep impact of the attack (whether preconceived or not) is division. What I mean is like this. So we now have Muslims who are more distrusted than ever and as hostile public opinion festers--the attack provokes non Muslims (the West) to blame,attack and alienate innocent Muslims--thus incidentally shaping themselves into "THE ENEMY/INFIDELS" who persecute Muslims-- the same enemy that ISIS and Al-Quada sell to there recruits. It gives them more to work with and because of the Wests actions we have reinforced and defined an enemy for them to fight against. ...Instead we have to tackle the ROOT of the problem whatever that may be Not giving the terrorists too much credit mind in suggesting there is a multi faceted plan behind all this. I'm merely suggesting a side effect. Who's to say we can't take the terrorists attack on its face value, in that it was nothing other than a barbaric act driven by a dogmatic belief system. I happen to be an excellent reader. Five minutes.. my ass holes I feel bad for you man.

People harassing your family just to get to you is a horrible thing. How can anybody even think of something like that? How low can people go in the name of religion?

Please never publicly come out as an atheist. At least not until you ensure your family's safety. 

And yes, I'll make it a point **NOT** to act like an asshole. :) that post changed my mind about the issue which is hard to do.
consider submitting it as a guest editorial to some newspaper I love you. 
It looks dark, but the goodwill and humanity we can see here and in so many other places, from Muslems, Christians, atheists... heck even politicians... means we are going to win. Fuck everyone who is trying to stop people communicating. I love you too! Wow. I went from "Kill all of these Motherfuckers so we can be done with it" to not in the timespan it took me to accept the challenge (as I am wont to do) to read this. Any girls wearing a Hijab want to have some coffee with a Florida Man? Then during the date, ask if she agrees with the apostasy law &gt;  apostasy law

I thought I would just ask her what her favorite tv shows or music is at first. You know, regular people things. Damn ~~straight~~...er...right. err, correct. errrrrrrrr You left your dildo runnin'. 9 times out of 10 it's an electric razor Of course it's company policy never to imply ownership in the event of an electric razor. We have to use the indefinite article "an electric razor" never "your electric razor" I think you're mistaken. That's just a back massager. He's too busy feeling the pleasure now. Gay-ly forward?? I've always said this. If you really care about protecting marriage, the very first thing you should is ban divorce.  and shaving (Lev. 19:27) Oh but Jesus said all the old testament rules do not apply except^for^the^ones^about^gays /s "Do not think that I have come to abolish the Law or the Prophets; I have not come to abolish them but to fulfill them."
 So basically "I followed the rules perfectly so now you don't have to."? No, Jesus was claiming that the Old Testament laws were to be followed until essentially the end of the earth.  The very next line is:

*"For truly I tell you, until heaven and earth disappear, not the smallest letter, not the least stroke of a pen, will by any means disappear from the Law until everything is accomplished."* And they'd argue that his crucifixion is when everything was accomplished.  Interestingly, the version of the saying in Luke doesn't have that additional clause that Matthew has:

&gt;it is easier for heaven and earth to pass away, than for one stroke of a letter in the law to be dropped. the majority opinion seems to be that matthew and luke share a common secondary source (Q). do you think that luke is just copying/aware of matthew? First, I should say that my interest in Synoptic studies has really waned over the past couple of years; soo it's not something I invest an inordinate amount of time into anymore.

However, I've been tending to gravitate towards some of the more complex solutions. First off, I accept the existence of a written source or sources that contain "Q" material (as known from Matthew and Luke). (I'm also *very* inclined to think that one can detect clear-cut signs of Aramaic sayings underlying some of this material.)

That being said, I *also* think that Lukan dependence on Matthean material is very likely; but I'm not ready to say that Luke knew Matthew in the form that we know Matthew today. I wouldn't gravitate towards a theory as radical as, say, Delbert Burkett here (which I've described [here](http://www.reddit.com/r/AcademicBiblical/comments/1wf58u/complicating_the_synoptic_problem_recent/)); but I think we're going to ultimately end up with a pretty complicated theory nonetheless.

 ...and if you're asking how this comes into play with the specific verses in question: yes, I think Luke 16:17 preserves a more primitive version of the saying that we find in Mt 5:18. Why would god have us argue  and make everything  so vague.   Obviously there is no arguing.

&gt;For God is not the author of confusion, but of peace, as in all churches of the saints. 

1 Corinthians 14:33

&gt;Did not Moses give you the law, and yet none of you keepeth the law

John 7:19

&gt;Know this first of all, that there is no prophecy of scripture that is a matter of personal interpretation, for no prophecy ever came through human will; but rather human beings moved by the holy Spirit spoke under the influence of God.

2 Peter 20-21 ...except he stated it would last until the end of heaven and earth, plus if "everything was accomplished" then there would be no need for a "second coming" now would there. &gt;  "everything was accomplished" then there would be no need for a "second coming" now would there.

I always forget to bring this up when debating this topic!  Good point! No it means the writer claimed Jesus said the laws were still valid. Point is Christians have been bullshitting their religion for 2000 years.  Check out Acts 10. A lot (most) of Christians see that as a lolno on the Old Covenants.  I always like when they claim the supposed words of the apostles, and particularly Paul who never met the man, override the words of Jesus himself. Oh, man. The argument that Paul of Tarsus invented Christianity holds a fair amount of water. It's downright amazing. So wait... Are you saying Paul didn't? I'm seriously confused I'd always heard he was the main reason for the spread of Christianity. Or did I just read that wrong... &gt;For God is not the author of confusion, but of peace, as in all churches of the saints. 

1 Corinthians 14:33

&gt;Did not Moses give you the law, and yet none of you keepeth the law

John 7:19

&gt;Know this first of all, that there is no prophecy of scripture that is a matter of personal interpretation, for no prophecy ever came through human will; but rather human beings moved by the holy Spirit spoke under the influence of God.

2 Peter 20-21

It's a relatively new thing that OT no longer applies. Last 300 years new thing. Pick and choose bro. Pick and choose what you want to believe. It's a buffet of faith.  A buffaith? I think you deserve gold for that, my friend. That's exactly what Christianity has become in my opinion; a buffet of faith. Actually I was raised Christian, became an agnostic-atheist. We were always taught jesus followed the rules so that we would be forgiven for breaking the rules. To fulfill means to complete.  That's the point - that assertion is contrary to what the bible stipulates and has been purposefully misinterpreted to become a get-out-of-jail-free card for many Christians. shh if i listen to your "blasphemy" and started questioning the rules i'll be in sin! Wow, that is really convenient, having your cake and eating it too Surprisingly accurate interpretation.  Funny enough, just earlier today I had come across that old comment where we talked about all the different options here.
 Sure. I'm fairly fixed on the "fulfill=apocalyptic completeness at the cross" line though. That's the gestalt of Matthew on the subject, as far as I can see. Luke is New Testament, jesus never said a word about homosexuality but he condemned divorce several times. Christian here, you are partly right even though you are being very sarcastic. Two common misconceptions is the law does not matter anymore or that it does. It is actually a mix of both. Three different laws are present in the OT when you extrapolate or dissect the OT: Ceremonial, Civil, and Moral law. Now post crucifixion 2 of the 3 are no longer remain and that is Ceremonial and Civil. Those two were exclusive to the nation of Israel, so all those verses about no shaving, or having sex while a woman is on her period, or any laws regarding government (Civil) are no longer required to be followed because the New Testament is about the opening from Jews only to everyone (Gentiles). The New Testament is primarily about Paul preaching to Gentiles, and Paul to Jews. Those 2 laws aren't intact anymore because it would still keep Israel as the covenant nation instead of everyone. Now Moral Law (10 commandments) are still intact! If you have any questions shoot me a DM! Would love to Have good/open dialogue!  But wouldn't the laws of divorce and remarriage be considered part of the "moral" grouping? I follow your logic there but if divorce would fall under the moral category, wouldn't the OT interpretation still stand? And if so, it seems to me there's a definite inconsistency among the modern Christian community to cherry pick the "moral laws" that as you say still apply. (I'm just trying to bring it back to the original post because I think it's a very interesting point.) Kind of, and you are right the Christian community can cherry pick, but you have to remember some are brought up in different contexts. Any law outside of the 10 Commandments in the OT is specifically to either God's governing rule (Civil Law) or Ceremonial law which was specific to the covenant requirements (faith in him). But Jesus, Paul, and other NT figures also address other "rules" such as church government, divorce like you correctly pointed out, or other things such as what exactly marriage is. So some things such as homosexuality or divorce are brought up in both, but categorically, those aren't grouped together with the Civil or Ceremonial laws, but rather an extension of the Moral law, does that make sense? Let me know if it doesn't! I get what you're saying, that interpretation of the law post crucifixion is a mixed bag depending on the subject matter -- but I still don't see how that makes the Biblical interpretation of adultery by way of divorce invalid post crucifixion. Either the "moral law" interpretation is invalid or it isn't invalid, and that seems like it ought to be a matter of great concern to Christians considering that adultery -- not homosexuality -- is what gets a mention in the Ten Commandments. But you never see Christians anywhere, even in the most conservative denominations, arguing that remarriage after divorce = adultery.  No, the adultery by remarriage by way of moral law is valid, I'm saying its not a civil or ceremonial law. I also agree on remarriage being wrong!  Well you're in the minority among Christians then because I was raised in the church (Nazarene) for almost 25 years and there were several divorces and remarriages in that time frame and never once did I hear any of our pastors question whether or not these couples were violating the Ten Commandments. In fact, the couples who were remarried had their ceremony in the church.  Catholicism (the 'big one' as far as Christianity goes) doesn't recognise divorce. 

As far as they're concerned, 'remarriage' doesn't exist. The first one can only be dissolved by death or retroactively invalidated by annulment.  I have a cat that's black with a white underbelly &gt;fortheonesaboutgays

Did Jesus ever mention gays? Quote Bible verse if so because I've never heard of it. legitimate question. There are several Christians out there that would love to ban divorce. 

 Ireland for the longest time didn't have divorce.

[Until 1996 divorce was illegal.](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fifteenth_Amendment_of_the_Constitution_of_Ireland)

50,5% of the Irish population voted *for* divorce in a referendum. That tells you how "valid" divorce is seen in Ireland. There are dozens of us.  DOZENS Catholics, for one, don't believe in divorces. Once you're married by the Church, they won't remarry you even if the State would.  Not even close to being a universal rule.  They make exceptions for money. Sure, and they'll call it annulment. My point is that, theologically, divorces are not a thing. Annulment is when, in the eye of the Church, the marriage never happened to begin with.  How the flying fuck do they rationalise that? Catholic acquaintance whose marriage was annulled after it became apparent she was 'falling down the stairs' far too often...

They had a kid.  $ &gt; annulment

Some reading:
http://www.americancatholic.org/messenger/sep1998/feature1.asp They do rationalize a bunch of crazy shit, yet somehow this one is way up on that list.  My ex husband paid for an annulment. But according to the church-our two children were still legit. So the marriage never happened-but the kids did. When a priest called me to let met know that my children were still 'valid' in the eyes of the church I asked him if his collar was too tight. 
Rationalism and religion...doesn't happen because they don't think they have to even try. There's also several conditions that must be met in order for an annulment to be allowed. &gt; Not even close to being a universal rule. They make exceptions for money.

Actually their holy book and the pope are very very clear on that matter. It's a universal rule: there is no divorce.

Annulment is not divorce btw. There are. And there are several who argue in favor of banning gay marriage but would argue against a divorce ban.  Philippines is the only country in Asia without divorce.  My father is doing his best to have his marriage annulled. True that. A good friend of mine retired in the Philippines and married a local girl. He ended up having to just leave the country though by technical definition he's now a bigamist.  That's crazy. The Catholic Church is waay too powerful there. I don't seriously believe that there should be a divorce ban. I just think if you feel so strongly to "protect the institution of marriage", then you should ban the thing that actually destroys it. Can't argue with that, I've had people try but it doesn't make any sense.  Ex-Catholic, here. We excommunicated a king of England over this. Something tells me this would just end in a lot more murder. &gt; Anyone who divorces his wife and marries another woman commits adultery, and the man who marries a divorced woman commits adultery.

-Luke 16:18

Well that's an out for men, sorry women. Then again the 6th commandment says you shouldn't murder. Then again, I hear the ten commandments are an inconsistent and minor piece of the old the testament... Well now the only option is to make gay marriage legal, that way they can marry another man after their divorce and not be adulterers =P Don't you DARE use my bible against me!!! eh... they're probably crazy enough to do so. No that would be silly if they. There's actually a high rate of divorce among evangelical Christians. to be fair, if they thought it was possible, they would try.

but there are too many even among them that have had their share. careful what you wish for...right wing fundies would LOVE to ban divorce.  "If I can't marry my boyfriend then I'll marry your daughter" They'll be happy to "cure" a gay. &gt;now is that "legitimate marriage" or "rape marriage"?

-Todd Akin Depends on if a pregnancy occurs. 

Until that point, there's no way to be sure. And somewhere out there's a scary fundamentalist who actually thinks this'd be a workable arrangement. 

"Damn right Skeeter! No divorce, no gay marriage! Bible said it, I believe it!  'Murcia!" It's actually pretty standard for conservative Catholics.  Protestants generally believe that divorce is legitimate in the case of adultery or if the former spouse is a nonbeliever who left of their own accord (although not in the case of abuse, because the Bible doesn't say that's okay), but Catholics literally believe that divorce between two baptized Christians is impossible once the marriage is consumated. Catholics do "annulments" -- voiding the marriage as if it never happened.  Only in severe cases such as adultery or abuse. This shows a clear lack of intention of upholding one's vows, and as the sacrament is conferred on each member of the couple by the other member mainly through vows, the sacrament does not exist. Which I'm fine with honestly. If your creepy club wants to make creepy club rules for its members who freely choose to accept those rules...be my guest. 

Try to make your creepy club's rules law-of-the-land and you can go right fuck yourself.  Or act like your vows somehow make you better than people even though you don't keep them.

I'm a better person than all of you because I swear on all that is holy to donate $100 billion dollars every year to charity.  Just forgive me if I don't. &gt; Only in severe cases such as adultery or abuse.

Or the Kennedy clan. Theoretically only in those cases. In actual practice it takes a bishop's approval, and that's a formality. Source: I have several relatives who have had their Catholic marriages annulled. After children, so.....

(And they wonder why this nonbeliever refuses to pay lip service to the idea of getting married in a Catholic ceremony.) Not necessarily.  My best friend's mom had her non-catholic, but christian marriage annulled (years after they were divorced) and after she had had two kids, in order to marry her new catholic fiance.  And she got it done.

There are no rules. Actually adultery or abuse are not grounds for annulment: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Annulment_(Catholic_Church)#Grounds_for_nullity One may argue simulation of consent was committed if one has an affair. One may argue that an abusive spouse was not psychologicaly fit to marry. Therefore both may be grounds for annulment  indirectly, yes To be clear, the teaching though is not that the Catholic Church is voiding a real marriage. It's a declaration that there was an impediment at the time of the marriage ceremony that means a true marriage did not actually occur. It's meant not to change someone's marital status, but to discover what that status is.  That's only if it's consummated ;-) It can be annulled for a number of reasons, one being abuse of any sort.  So do jws, so yeah, you are stuck with your unhappy marriage. Don't you dare move on Skeeter Valentine.  Actually, yes. The same group behind Prop 8 in California also tried to get a proposition passed that would make divorce more difficult. My parents have a horrible marriage and are just sticking it out because both believe divorce is against God's will. I hate visiting, most of their problems exist because they're still married. One of the reasons Henry VIII broke off from the catholic church and founded the Anglican church was so that he could divorce. And another reason religion is shit. People constantly making new ones to be able to do "right" but cut corners. The English Reformation was a little more than Henry cutting corners to get divorced. It was more of Henry deciding that he didn't want papal authority violating his God given right to rule and the sovereignty that comes with it. It was an enormous change in English politics that gave the crown more power by subordinating the papacy.  Of course then Christians say that if the couple had a reason to be divorced, that means in God's eyes they were never married so it's ok. They may be able to get divorced, but they can't get married to someone else.

1 Corinthians 7:10-11

10 And unto the married I command, yet not I, but the Lord, Let not the wife depart from her husband:

11 But and if she depart, let her remain unmarried or be reconciled to her husband: and let not the husband put away his wife. Sent this to my mom because she wants me and my little brothers to interpret the bible literally and she replied saying to let God be the judge. I really can not comprehend how people want to sell you this book as what God expects from us, and then invalidate their holy book. Take it seriously.  Not literally.  Otherwise there would be some serious eye plucking out... This says the woman can't get remarried. Seems guys are ok. Another point for team men!  Jesus says that the guy can't get re-married either. Proof? Luke 16:18:

         ,       . -Jesus

Whoever releases (divorces) his wife and marries another commits adultery, and the one who is released (divorced; remember, men have the agency in these matters during this period) from a husband and marries (again) commits adultery. You got me along with /u/infrequentlycomments. Whats with the greek (im just guessing) tho? 

 &gt;Whats with the greek (im just guessing) tho?

The NT was originally written down in Greek (proto-gospels may have existed in oral form prior), so I provided that in case anyone else can read it and wants to question/debate exactly what was being said.  Matthew 19:7-9. 7 They said to Him, Why then did Moses command to give a certificate of divorce, and to put her away?
8 He said to them, Moses, because of the hardness of your hearts, permitted you to divorce your wives, but from the beginning it was not so. 9 And I say to you, whoever divorces his wife, except for sexual immorality,[a] and marries another, commits adultery; and whoever marries her who is divorced commits adultery. It isn't remarried biblically, merely another completely valid marriage. What? You said remarried, there are options I. The Bible for polygamy, aka a second marriage. By the Christian period, Roman influence had basically extinguished polygamy as a thing in Palestine, so much so that having multiple wives (or having been divorced) was grounds for disqualification for being a bishop by the first third of the second century CE. Jesus' teachings seem implicitly to accept this as standard; I'm not aware of any teachings of his that indicate, implicitly or explicitly, that polygamy should be encouraged or accepted.  You can't get remarried! No penis no remarriage, according to these rules I've just made up! But d'you have a flag? No better time than to go lesbo! You can get remarried if the reason for split was that your partner cheated on you. Christianity: 2,000 years of everyone making it up as they go! &gt;  2,000 years of everyone making it up as they go!

For the first 2/3 of that time span Christians could not even agree on how many gods there are:   One God or [Two Gods](http://gnosis.org/library/cathar-two-principles.htm)

It finally took the Inquisition to settle the disagreement.
 And the Jews apparently changed their list and count more than once.

As for the Christians, *"Jesus' two natures are not "mixed together" (Eutychianism), nor are they combined into a new God-man nature (Monophysitism).  They are separate yet act as a unit in the one person of Jesus.  This is called the Hypostatic Union."*

Well, that cleared it all up. Nothing beats the bullshit that is the Immaculate Conception.

Most people think it's about Christ, but no, it's about Mary.  God shielded her from original sin in her mother's womb.

But considering she was traveling around with Joseph, and their marriage hadn't been consummated, doesn't that mean they weren't really married?  So Jesus was born out of wedlock. &gt;For the first 2/3 of that time span Christians could not even agree on how many gods there are: One God or Two Gods

It's interesting that what you link to here is a *12th/13th century* text.

(To be sure, the idea of a demiurge goes back much further than that. But it was *always* a marginal and secondary belief in Christianity, and *never* had even the slightest bit of "orthodox" standing.) If my SO and I have reasons to get an abortion, that means in Gods eyes she was never pregnant so that's ok. So if I kill someone, that means in God's eyes they shouldn't have been born in the first place?

That'll make getting through the line at the DMV a bit quicker. Starting to like this religion thing. Of course. Haven't you learned anything from ISIS? This. Exactly this. I had a friend actively helping his friend get a divorce so he could marry the other woman that he had a 6 year old child with. 

He was voting in favor of a bill defining marriage as being between a man and a woman. 

The hypocrisy was too much. I literally could not even.... For Catholics, the only way you're technically morally supposed to remarry is if you get an annulment (declaring the marriage was never valid) which you achieve (in basic terms) by proving either (A) the other person lied in the marriage vows/never intended on keeping them or (B) the marriage was never consummated  That's outrageous and completely unfounded. Well, religion is outrageous and completely unfounded, so... I haven't actually heard a Christian say that. In fact, it's fairly well recognized in the church that high divorce rates in the church are hypocritical and problematic.  Gingrich...calling Newt Gingrich to register 12 Christian here...I was ready to pounce since biblical passages quoted are usually done so while taken out of context. I tell fellow Christians to always read the verse before and verse after the quoted verse so nothing is left to chance....well no luck here!  The bible is against divorce. No grey area.   Thanks, I just sent that verse to my (recently devout Christian) mother who is about to get married to a (currently non practicing) pastor.

If you're going to get married because not doing so is a sin you should realize that getting married in the first place is a sin. seems like a rather rude thing to do.  Does she really have it coming or something? Not in the sense that she is a bad person. There's a lot of backstory to this.

The gist is she got a divorce less than 8 months ago, has known the guy for about 6-7 months and this is her 8th marriage. She is a much happier person when she is single.

Also this is the first husband (that I know of) that has a religious hold on her. He's not a bad guy but she is being taught that Jesus thinks women are less than men. It's also a lot harder to get out of a bad marriage when it's built on your faith.

I honestly did this out of concern and not to be an asshole to her. I've always been an honest person to her and she brought up her engagement yesterday (prior to this I've been silent) and asked me what I thought of it. &gt; this is her 8th marriage.

Is she really crazy about that wedding cake taste or something? I think it's proverbs that mentions that divorce is only acceptable if the spouse has committed adultery, otherwise remarrying is in itself adultery.   That likely has something to do with stoning the adulterer to death Yeah, remarrying after death is totally permitted. Hell, in some cases, it's mandatory! I listen to right wing AM radio when I am bored. I don't know if it's syndicated but on either 550 or 1200 in the San Antonio area, I listened to a DJ tell me that people (because of divorce rates) need to focus on their own home before they put their noses into other homes. He spoke out about how many kids are growing up in broken homes and that people should not throw stones.  I still cannot believe that this is an ongoing issue. Why the fuck can people not swallow their pride and just be logical for a second? This isn't just gay rights, this is human rights. Abortion is legal. So if a politician can't legally force their religion in biology of a woman... Hello! Sticking your dicks in other people's biology is an attack on your person as a whole.  Yes but I bet there's a passage in there somewhere that vaguely, and only if not taken literally, points to divorce being okay. That's the one to use. Stop quoting parts of the bible that don't apply to Christian activities, these parts only apply to everyone else. Many fundamentalists would take that bargain.  Which is why the Catholic Church had anullments, where you prove that you were not in love when you married that person. Anullments are actually harder to get than divorces and have to be done if you wish to remarry in the catholic church. Yep. I'm a practicing Christian and I never got this logic. If we care so much about protecting marriage, why are we focusing on 10% of the population? Because they do the icky butt stuff? It seems totally overlooked, but there are still some churches that obey this teaching.  That is, if you are divorced for a reason other than your spouse shagging another, you are in sin until you reconcile.

Some churches do not let you join if that's your status. This is how a christian church should work. There is nothing less credible than a religion not following their own teachings. Serious question. Why get married? You can just live with someone and live by the same values as a married couple should... What is the point? Why does the church or government have to intervene if there ever comes a time when my SO wants to leave me or I want to leave her (full disclosure: Single for the last year). I never understood that either. Why would I legally bind myself with someone? It's expensive to be married, and more expensive to get divorced. If one of us wants to leave, we wanna be able to pack our shit and leave. Period. It's expensive to get married, not be married. I saved 50% on car insurance after getting married! I married the same woman twice. So what does that make me? A glutton for punishment? [HEYOOOOOOOOOOO !!  ! ! ! !](http://instantrimshot.com/classic/?sound=rimshot) "But that's not what God meant when he wrote that passage. You can't just *interpret* what the word of God means"

"But you do it all the time"

"It's only okay when I we do it"  Nah, that verse is supposed to be taken metaphorically. "oh we dont believe in THAT part of the bible" That's the part where the Ten Commandments are!?  .... Never mind , they work on the Sabbath as well... The Bible gets no respect at all  I would rather not be able to marry than to be stuck with someone you hate. How about marrying only when you are certain you are going to love them forever? Instead of marrying a year after you met, how about marrying half a decade after you moved in together? This is actually the argument I make with some of my more conservative Christian friends about why the sanctity of marriage argument doesn't make sense. If you think that gay marriage should be illegal because it violates sanctity of marriage, by the same logic you should also think that remarriage after divorce is illegal. You can be morally opposed to something and still support its legality.  Problem is the freaks who think gays can't marry believe this to Random rant about my personal experience with this passage:

This is the script which started my journey of doubt about God and religion.   My mother had recently separated from my father.  My sister and I were at my extremely religious (paternal) grandmother's house spending the night...  She usually would read us some religious nonsense, she grew up Mennonite so you can probably imagine what she was like.   

That particular night she decided to tell both me and my sister who were still processing the separation of our parents that my mother was going to hell and discussed this passage and adultery. 

My response gave her a panic attack, after all I was the one who was a favourite of hers (yes she played favourites) and thus far had been the most receptive to accepting religion and Jesus, to this day I am still very proud of my young self... but it took me a long time to get over the guilt.   I replied "If God and the devil are real then why doesn't god take the devils pitchfork and shove it up his butt!"

She had a panic attack and pretended to get weak, crying and yelling she took me into another room away from my sister, then she called my aunt (whom lived nearby) who also came over.   I called my father as soon as I was able and for about half an hour I was subjected to the constant yelling and manipulation of "How could you say that to an old woman"  (no, how could you say what YOU did to a child).

My father showed up to take me home, and it being his mother I had no idea what to say or do...  thankfully I didn't have to say anything, my dad simply looked at me and said "I grew up with her as my Mother, I understand.   You are my daughter and I love and trust you"  (I have since found my dad has been an atheist for quite some time) 

It still was many years after that I finally came to my senses that it wasn't simply my grandmother who represented religion in such a way, but the very thing itself is about manipulation and control.   

TLDR- Parents splitting up, dad's mom tells me my mom is going to hell citing this verse and adultery, I respond "if religion is true why God doesn't shove Satan's pitchfork up his butt?"  people are hypocritical...what's new I've known so many 'Christians' who have an aversion to finding out just what is actually in the Bible.  I think they believe if they can avoid reading the rules they can also avoid the responsibility of having to decide whether or not they are going to follow the rules.  And the repercussions.

If true, this would explain a great deal about the almost forceful devotion/commitment to ignorance some Christians have.

Probably hoping God will be more likely to forgive them for willful ignorance, than for knowing transgression? Actually a valid point. What Luke?  Skywalker?  Perry?
 But we don't choose to live by this part. It doesn't apply for the same reason the parts i do like apply, because i said so. Not only do they pick and choose from the Bible what they want to believe, the pick and choose the most hateful shit in there. Honest question. What do atheist believe? I don't get an answer, or inadequate answers when I ask my religious friends  [deleted] Oh.. Ok. I just wasn't sure if there was a common alternative atheism thread. Just being curious. hey, thanks for honestly asking. you deserve some credit for that, I hope you get a bunch of answers so you can more easily discern the truth for yourself.

I'm a humanist, which means I'm a type of atheist that doesn't believe in spirituality in any sense, and that all the things religion is responsible for- good and bad- are only from men, and nothing more. I believe all the best things in life that most people thank god for are from the efforts of people as people, and not 'souls' or just naturally occurring and we as humans are lucky to be in a spot where we can appreciate them. All we are is our bodies/brains, but that's a great thing, and all the love and beauty we can appreciate in the world doesn't need religion/god/souls for it to be beautiful, it already is.

If you ever have any questions, there's no such thing as a dumb question, so make sure you ask Atheists tend to believe in logic. So it all depends on what kind of marriage you do. If you marry in the church you must follow the bible. If you do a civilian marriage where you don't promise to honour the bible then you have no such responsibility.

Modern society makes an absolute joke of the christian church and their traditions. And so does the modern church. This is why i have less respect for christianity than islam, as a religion. Those who follow islam don't tend to pick and choose.

This is not to say i think the idea of either of these religions is sane, just that if you are going to be religious you should not be a phony. This seems like a good strategy until one realizes that Christians rarely stick to the rules if said rules get in the way of what they want to do. Christians are, as a rule, world-class hypocrites that way. good god its impossible to follow the bible it has 10000000000 weird rules to remember That's why they make it up as they go. and the rules they do pick to follow are those most hateful, bigoted, unreasonable rules in the whole book If you think so, then you should not be in that religion. If you are in the religion, you must do your best to follow the bible. Common-fucking-sense 20:15

Anyone who believes in god is just another bystander at the emperors new clothes brigade. It's embarrassing, as a species, that we've come this far.

Start telling people it's ridiculous and unacceptable and they need to snap out of it. And aren't adulterers supposed to be stoned or something? 

Actually I might be thinking about the wrong religion. All of these idiotic religions have started to blend in my mind.   If this religious shit turns out to be true (lol) then I would like to go on record as saying that I am 100% comfortable with my divorce from my first husband.

I filed - so I burn - right? 

Worth it. I don't understand why people care so much about a thousand year old book. You don't think that we might learn anything from reading Plato's socratic dialogues? Nah man old people just don't get the new and hip generations of today's world.  And that's what they said about their parents.  Today's youth aren't special it's just the continuation  of knowledge.  Kids 50 years from now will look at today's liberals as gross conservatives. About that, I can't help but think about the face a freshly married bigot girl do when she discovers her husband have a micropenis. wut It reminds me of something that'd be on Bad Lip Reading. you expect *logic* to work? Superficially correct.  It's about time the gay community called the fundies out on their marriage hypocrisy. If this was true, then gay marriage rights right now!!! Please!!!!! This is absolutely terrific  So, atheists can't marry? Heh.. Gay logic makes more sense.  Just had this conversation today. There's a legislator in Alabama (I think) who is a lesbian. She has threatened to expose her colleagues' affairs if they continue to oppose gay marriage. Similar vein, I think. (Christian here spotting this on r/all) Trust me, Christians know how bad divorce rates are. If a Christian tells you that Christians get it right all the time, then that Christian is either blissfully ignorant or a liar. &gt;  that Christian is either blissfully ignorant or a liar.

Yup, that pretty much sums it up... Absolutely right, and they can't fornicate, commit adultery, or eat bacon cheese burgers. if they put a1 sauce and an onion ring on it it's all good At this point I don't think laws should dictate anything marriage related, christians(such as I) should resolve to follow Christianity as individuals and not try to impose laws to dictate actions of those who don't believe in the first place. That just makes things worse for the religion as a whole  This just goes to prove that despite what the 5 o'clock news story says people aren't anti gay for religious reasons.  The chief reason laws don't pass even in states like California is now and always has been America's over all inability to accept and befriend that life style.   Motherfucker Even the cats are Returning. Makes sense to me!  Wouldn't that mean they can divorce.... Just not re marry after? Then the next thing the dude said was "all y'all need to gimme 10% of your paychecks. Every Sunday would be nice..." That was the rational conclusion even before considering his name is Malarkey. &gt; That was the rational conclusion even before considering his name is Malarkey.

Many years ago, I was in the FBI museum and saw a check written by a con artist who had signed his name "N. O. Good". I guess these things are reading comprehension tests.
 There's a chiropractor in my town--his last name is Schill. There is a Dr. Leak in my town who is, of course, a urologist. Got a general practitioner here named Dr. Slaughter My mother had a Doctor Doctorov. My local news station had a meteorologist named Storm Fields. what is he a Doctorov? [deleted] He has mail-order degrees in doctorology AND doctoronomy! I laughed at this harder than was reasonable There's a dentist in my hometown named Dr. Slaughter. His assistant? Nurse Blood. Wish I was joking. We had a sheriff with the last name Shotwell.  My chiropractor is Dr. Payne Local Urologist around here was Dr. Chop Used to go to a veterinarian named Dr. Catt. I've seen a plumbing van with the company name "Peed Plumbing"  We have had two dentists (father and son) named Dr. Pullen. There is a Dr. Reaper in my town who is a physical therapist. I get a good chuckle from it every time I go by the sign. In my town there's a guy who calibrates car who's name is Shaky, and he's store is next to another man who sells suspension who's last name is Straight. 

 That's how he was known before he made his doctorate. He also changed his first name to "Feel". Signed, JP moneybags Morgan.  Malarkey? Isn't that slang for bull shit? Yes, Captain Sobel! Dust in the rear sight aperture, private bullshit. Revoked. Man he did such a good job with that character that anything I see him in I instinctually hate him. I'm struggling watching Friends for the first time all the way through.. He's so good at being a douchenut.  His incompetency infuriated me. HOLD POSITION IN THE MIDDLE OF THEIR MACHINE GUN SIGHTS SQUAD! Is that dust on your jump wings? How do you expect to defeat the Hun with dust on your jump wings? Now the thing to remember, boys... flies spread disease, so keep yours closed! [Irish-American slang, apparently.](http://www.urbandictionary.com/define.php?term=malarkey)

I love how they used #43 in a sentence to define it. Beat me to it...like do people not see his last name and think, "this kid is full of shit!" Malarkey? Malarkey's slang for bullshit isn't it? You have rust on your buttplate hinge spring, Private BULLSHIT! Revoked! Just finished binge watching this today for probably the 20th time. Can someone please tell me what show this is? Haha, this guy doesn't know what the show is... Obviously *I* know what the show is, because I'm hip and with it. Anyone care to help him out? I would tell him but I have to go... do a thing. HBO miniseries Band of Brothers. Worth your time if you like history and/or good TV programs.  Ross is such a dick. I know.  Buying this book is like giving investment money to a guy named Madoff.

I mean, they aren't even trying to keep it secret, for cryin' out loud. It's what my dad used to say. Source: I am 50.  Technically it would be considered the other way around, but yea, they're the exact same thing, except that Malarkey can't really be confused with the excrement of a male cow. &gt; That was the rational conclusion even before considering his name is Malarkey.

I just wanted to hijack the top comment to point a few things out here:

Beth Malarkey's comments on the matter highlight her goals here. She waited until after the divorce to expose her ex-husband's story. She claims her son spoke out early against the book but was told to go ahead with it because it was a blessing.

Isn't it funny how the minute that her husband splits, Beth suddenly has a "Come to Jesus" moment? Particularly telling are the comments that her husband isn't sharing the proceeds of the book with her or her son.

This family doesn't give a shit about integrity. The only god they worship is money. Mom's trying to burn her ex-husband and is hoping to play her paralyzed son as a victim to bring in more donations and appearance fees. Who knows, man:

&gt;One June 5, 2014, Alex's mother, Beth Malarkey, appeared on the Christian radio show The Bible Answerman and said that the book is deceptive, that it embellishes the story of the accident. Beth Malarkey said Alex is still a quadriplegic and cannot legally receive any money from the book. She has divorced her husband who wrote the book. &gt;&gt;Beth Malarkey said Alex is still a quadriplegic and cannot legally receive any money from the book.

Not a lawyer, but I have trouble seeing how these two things are at all related. Maybe you're legally blind.

That's why you haven't received any money from the book either. I think that the article was trying to highlight the kid's struggle, as he is a quadriplegic, and in addition to that cannot legally receive money from book sales since he is a minor.  I read the whole article and then went back to copy...

&gt;The Bible is the only source of truth. Anything written by man cannot be infallible.

...and then went to find a source to quote... (You seriously can't write this bullshit to save your life!! hahahaha...) what a bunch'a Malarkey! Somebody should tell this poor guy who wrote the Bible. Wrote, revised, redacted, lost, found, translated, translated again, printed, and distributed. So he just admitted to using religion to lie to us in order to get attention and make money, and then tells us that his religion is the only source of truth?  Why would we believe him? According to the article he hasn't made money and the book was being published against his will in the first place. So there's that. [deleted] I was convinced I was reading an article from The Onion It's just too fitting haha Dammit! To be clear, this is not the "Heaven is for Real" kid... it's a different kid with almost the same story but it was about 5 years ago. I'm sure the '"Heaven is for Real" kid is totally legit. The other kid obviously isn't a True Christian. You get it.  [Yep.](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xyknx6cmpOw) God damn it I watched the whole thing thinking something was gonna happen at the end. You clearly need to watch Blues Brothers. And then watch it 20 more times. I laughed so much at this. Going to watch this again right now. I don't get it Easily my favorite movie of all time.  The father of the "heaven is for real kid" makes me sick. When an interview for the news was being done of the two, the father had to remind the kid of his lines and remind him of what "he saw when he went to heaven". Why are people so fucking stupid! Why?! My mom wanted me to read that book Heaven Is For Real. It's basically a case study in confirmation bias (on the part of the father). More like Marketing 101. Seriously, these kind of Christians are so gullible and easy to manipulate it's insane.  Oral Roberts did once go on stage saying if he didn't get $8 million the lord would kill him. (See [this article](http://newsok.com/oral-roberts-missionary-fund-raising-wont-end-with-first-8-million/article/2177594))

He got the 8 million. He is a despicable human being. His name sake university is in my state and its an embarrassment.  I read the book, but the moment I read that his father is a pastor on about page 2 it lost all credibility for me.  The more I hear about his father's antics the less I believe anything in this book - more than likely written by his father and embellished massively. Isn't it funny how only pastors' relatives seem to go to Heaven as young children and come back to remember it?  God must be really biased. I gave my mom that book after her father died. 

I thought it would comfort her. She took it as proof that I secretly believed in God.

I think it also gave her the balls to make terrible lifestyle choices that lead to her death. Basically drinking way too fucking much with liver problems.

So, yeah, I don't like that book either. That got dark.  Real. Quick. I wouldnt blame the book for your mothers alcoholism. Unless chapter 1 is lyrics to rack city and a bottle of whiskey. I would place blame not on the book but on the beliefs the book encourages. Encouraging belief in a perfect afterlife sometimes causes people to forget about their actual life and to take it for granted.  To be fair they're both lying, just one hasn't admitted it yet. Well, technically it is not lying if he believes his own bullshit. Hallucinations are real enough right? Costanza? To make amends, this kid has promised to donate all the ill-begotten proceeds to The Human Fund. "The Human Fund. Money...For People." It's not a lie...if **you** believe it. When the "Heaven is For Real" kid finally admits the sham, I think it'll blow up way more than this story. You know, considering they made a damn movie. Well he admitted he made it up, followed by this statement.

&gt;People have profited from lies, and continue to. They should read the Bible, which is enough. The Bible is the only source of truth. Anything written by man cannot be infallible. But wait ... the Bible was written by man ... oh never mind No! The bible was written by God. This  man I know told me. ...in Morse code...tapped on my naughty places...to drive the sin out... An 11 year old kid who most likely had a head injury said that.  Riiiiiight. Kids say the darndest things. wait a second, he just contradicted himself with the last two sentences.   Nononono silly, the Bible was written *through* man *by* god. still written by man's hand, hence written by man.  Technically it would be the Metatron, you know the voice, because God's voice would explode a human's head.  Though Metatron is a giant dick, like most angels tend to be, he probably gave us a bad copy for shits and giggles. &gt;"Anything written by man cannot be infallible."


Its not like the bible wasn't written by god or anything... Who is this Heaven is for Real kid ? [Colton Burpo](http://heavenisforreal.net/) Also known as Brumbpo Tungus

http://i.imgur.com/EeQmuNL.png Sounds more like a curse/spell from the Harry Potter books. But the "Heaven is For Real" kid is telling the truth right????? His father is a pastor. Everything that kid has related about his "experience" is exactly like the Christian paradise pastors preach about on Sundays. The kid didn't even use any imagination. It's funny how revelations are always religious iconography or symbolism from the persons religion. 

 "Whores, whores as far as my four year old eyes could see!" His last name WAS Malarkey, no? Yeah man, 7 year old are ALWAYS trustworty, no matter WHAT they say.

/s. he described details that cant be made up!! I like to call that one "DMT is for real" It's a shame, but I'll take it. Apparently they've been sort of walking this back for 6-months or so, but the people who were making money on it hushed it up.

&gt;One June 5, 2014, Alex's mother, Beth Malarkey, appeared on the Christian radio show The Bible Answerman and said that the book is deceptive, that it embellishes the story of the accident. Beth Malarkey said Alex is still a quadriplegic and cannot legally receive any money from the book. She has divorced her husband who wrote the book. &gt;She has divorced her husband.
  
  
Well *she* isn't going to heaven anytime soon! Divorce/adultery is punishable by death for the wife.

STONE HER!!!!!!!

"I'll have 2 points, 2 flats... and a packet of gravel." If you're going to stone someone, you have to follow the [right procedure.]( https://docs.google.com/file/d/0BzsCKGVh1dOYdFBLQWZ4NE95TVk/image?pagenumber=1&amp;w=1375&amp;pli=1 ) Fuck that's brutal That's the hole in this; who is making the money? The father she divorced? The publisher (obviously), but why not the authors? Did they sign royalty-free contracts and sell the rights away to the publisher? You have to read between the lines, but it seems like the father came up with this whole scheme and is the "author" who is collecting the royalty checks. If her son is in disability, he has very strict income limits. If he makes over a certain amount a month for 9 months in a row they will cancel his social security disability.  
 It would be pretty easy to set up a trust fund and get around that but I doubt that's happened.  Somewhere, Kirk Cameron is angrily throwing a movie screenplay into the trash... Don't worry, he can always base a movie on that other kid, the one that really did go to real heaven.  [deleted] From the article:

&gt; Last April, Alexs mother, Beth Malarkey, posted a statement on her own blog decrying the memoir and its promotion: It is both puzzling and painful to watch the book The Boy Who Came Back from Heaven not only continue to sell, but to continue, for the most part, to not be questioned. She goes on to say that the book is not Biblically sound and that her sons objections to it were ignored and repressed. She also notes that Alex has not received monies from the book nor have a majority of his needs been funded by it.

&gt; She ends in obvious frustration, writing: Alexs name and identity are being used against his wishes. How can this be going on??? Great question. How did it get this far? another great question.

TL;DR: Alex's father made a production deal and isn't sharing the profits with either Alex or his mother Beth.

I have to wonder how many times Alex and his mother tried to get their slice of the pie before finally coming forward and admitting the book was a fraud.

**It's been 11 years since Alex told his lie. It's been over four years since the novel was published. The moment that Beth and Kevin divorced, suddenly Beth and Alex break their silence on their father's legal contract with the publisher. Alex and his mother aren't doing this for the sake of God, Faith, or integrity. They are doing this because of money.** I am okay with people having a financial incentive to expose bullshit.  Perhaps, while they were still married, she felt compelled to stay silent despite any misgivings she had. Now, she no longer feels compelled to pretend that it's true, and is giving vent to years of repressed confessions. I was so hoping this was going to be the "Heaven is for Real" kid. Ugh, me too! My mom watched that stupid fucking movie and she was so spiritually reaffirmed. I asked why she would believe a young child and his parents (whose stories only they can corroborate) who make extreme claims and financially benefit from book and movie deals. She said I'm too skeptical and just need to accept things. I would have LOVED to rub this in her face. &gt; She said I'm too skeptical and just need to accept things. 

Next time you talk to her tell her you thought about it and she was right, you were being too skeptical and need to be more willing to have faith, then tell her about the Mosque you've started attending.  Well give her this book. Tell her to read it cause shes gonna like it. When she is done, ask her how it was. When she is done reciting how it was spiritual and all that bull shit, tell her the kid made it up, the dad wrote anything that came to his head, the mother knew it was bullshit, and the kid just said on the news that he lied about it all. Yeah or you could just not systematically try to manipulate and emotionally devastate your mom even if she is gullible about this stuff. but thats no fun, she has to know how bad of a person she is for believing in something she was brought up to believe A good amount of Christians are Christians because they get a lot of happiness out of it. I don't see why we would actively try to take someone's happiness away. Intelectual integrity, valuing skepticism as the basis of rational decision making or concern over their influence in politics, mainly. give it time.  "The Bible is the only source of truth."
"Anything written by man cannot be infallible." 

... pretty sure the Bible was written by men.

Edit: How to words? People who believe in what they call "Biblical Inerrancy" believe that the bible is completely 100% infallible, due to the words being divinely inspired. 

Some will tell you that God gave them the information and they wrote it in their own words. Others will tell you that he gave them the exact words to use, and they were just transcribing.

Either way, it's all bullshit. How do they explain the various bad translations along the last 1500 years? Like the Vulgate, which depicted Moses with horns on his head (which is why Michelangelo carved him that way). Or that there were multiple versions and additional books before being parred down to the current 66? Or why Matthew, Mark, and Luke can't agree on the same versions of the story, even getting entire regional areas wrong?

I mean, I know the answer is "humans made mistakes and God corrected them over the course of time" or whatever, but if it's an infallible book wouldn't it have been easier to, you know, not allow the mistakes to begin with?

"And lo, Moses had horns..." "**DUDE, NO. THAT'S DUMB. TOTALLY NOT RIGHT**" "Oh, well I thought that this meant..." "**NO. JUST NO. DON'T THINK. DO PEOPLE HAVE HORNS? RIDICULOUS. HE OBVIOUSLY HAD A HALO.**" "Oh, right. Ok"  My thought exactly. It was, but try telling that to the fan club. Sounded like a bunch of malarkey anyway. Boy now when he dies,goes to heaven and comes back, NO ONE is going to believe him! The Little Messiah who cried wolf.... It's all fun in games till someone is left out of the pay structure. Malarkey, the author's name was Malarkey. I know we are not talking about the "Heaven is for Real" kid, but it drove me nuts when he said his dead sister had hair like mommy's. HAIR DYE IS NOT AN INHERITED TRAIT. Sorry never had a forum.  IN HEAVIN YOU LOOK LIKE YOU REMEMBER AND YOUR HAIR IS THE COLOR OF YOURE MEMORIES AND YOU CAN RIDE GIANT KITTY CATS Do the kitty cats do what you want or are they still assholes? My cat is an asshole and if he was giant I don't think I'd ride him around let alone go near him. "When I made the claims that I did, I had never read the Bible. People have profited from lies, and continue to. They should read the Bible, which is enough. **The Bible is the only source of truth. Anything written by man cannot be infallible.**

PPPPFTHHAAAAHAHAHAHAHA!!! Well, he's still a kid. A kid who has been through an extremely unfortunate set of circumstances and remains a quadriplegic, on top of having a very manipulative religious father telling him what to think and say, so I can't really blame him for that quote.  It may seem silly and ignorant to us, but that philosophy probably means a lot to him.  I can't imagine being in that position, so young, and being an atheist with no hope of an afterlife where I would finally get to use my arms and legs again and be a normal kid.  That would destroy most adults, let alone a child. I don't think we should be dogging on the kid, it seems like him and his mother are the only responsible, honest people in this whole scenario, regardless of their faith. 

Also, that last sentence is still true regardless of the context.   I'm not even sure the mother is that responsible.  It seems like she only decided to push him to tell the truth when he was not making enough money from the book.   This, they didn't get paid and now they recant. [deleted] Yea you are right that dude is suave as they come. I could feel so much compassion coming from you &lt;3 way to be an awesome human being dude Yes yes yes yes yes no no no LOLNO Did this kid even write this? I doubt he knew half the 'big words' he used. &gt;Last April, Alexs mother, Beth Malarkey, posted a statement on her own blog decrying the memoir and its promotion: It is both puzzling and painful to watch the book The Boy Who Came Back from Heaven not only continue to sell, but to continue, for the most part, to not be questioned. She goes on to say that the book is not Biblically sound 

I can't believe that people aren't questioning this thing. It's not *SOUND* like the *BIBLE*, which, of course, should not be questioned due to its soundness. 

*AND* their last names are Malarkey. This family is missing all of the wonderful irony they're generating.  Of course, the old "guilty enough to tell the truth but not humble enough to admit your fault". He did?  Really?!? About 2 months ago a guy at work tried to get me to read this. It will be really fun to lay this on him.  You must report back! Of course he didn't: only muslims can go to heaven. In fact this is an insult to Islam and the prophet. Cut his head off! "The Bible is the only source of truth. Anything written by man cannot be infallible."

I wasn't aware god himself came down from heaven, wrote the bible, then came back down every hundred years or so to edit it to make it fit contextually for the time period.
What a swell guy. GGG.  Good Guy God doing his own work. Obligatory image.

http://imgur.com/kLvEwZm A lot of kids believe this. I know I did, until one day I read about the history and was like "OH, well that makes a lot more sense now...". And then I became an engineer. And now you know that cloud cuckoo-land doesn't conform to ISO guidelines? I never fucking understood this. 

Almost every chapter of the bible is named after a dude. THE DUDE WHO WROTE IT. THE HUMAN DUDE. 

EDIT: Or really, the dude pretending to be that dude several hundred years later. 