Money and subscriptions aside, is this actually worth spending and investing time in?

What state is the game currently in?

What has been added or improved since the launch, has there been many new important content patches?

How is the current end-game content for the game, much to raid and high level dungeons, progression on weapons and armor tiers, etc?

Is PVP fun and engaging, anything new/different here from the WoW style of PVP?

Personally while I think this is probably good from a player's perspective, I fear for the longevity and long-term life of the game now. Since the game probably won't be getting a big influx of ongoing money anymore, I would be fearful that Bethesda have no real incentive to add new content and constantly make the game better and improve it. Personally I would be surprised if very little new stuff and content is added after this change, and anything worthwhile that is added you can bet will cost a pretty DLC penny. &gt;  is this actually worth spending and investing time in?

Yes and no. I use to play back June-August. I stopped since I didn't feel the sub fee was worth it. The game in terms of using weapons and wearing armor is very unique for a MMO. You can do whatever you want. Want to be a sword welding mage wearing leather go right ahead. It has the Skyrim combat basically swing at shit until its dead some abilities have cooldowns but they range from boring MMO moves to some pretty useful ones. It also has the Oblvion/skyrim level up system the more you use something the more you level it and make it better. 

 The quests are pretty cool I will give it that. One quest line had a town under siege from werewolves. I did a decently long quest line and broke the siege and drove them back. Well everytime I go there now no more werewolves and people thanking me and etc. Hell even then the game makes you at times feel like a hero. You walk past someone they whisper oh wow thats the guy who killed that demon (another questline I did) and so thats pretty cool. 

It is also one of the only MMO's to make me get into crafting. You harvest mats to make shit and some days I only logged on to farm mats to make armor or potions or whatever. I can't explain why but I was really into it when in other MMO's I couldn't be bothered.  

YET on the other hand though locales are boring, lack of exploration, its just a themepark MMO trying to say its a sandbox,the HUD is bare as hell you NEED add-ons its the basic Skyrim HUD. Sure its easy to see but it tells you literally nothing. You will be walking on foot for a long time the amount of grind for a mount is crazy or you can just buy it for real money or upgrade to the imperial edition for a basic mount and the imperial race. Armor and weapons are painfully dull looking. You won't be linking gear back and forth between friends except maybe to show off stats nothing looks epic or cool. Trying to get into a dungeon was a pain I only experienced them because a much higher level guy offered to run me, my friend and some random through the first 3. 

My biggest issue though was grouping. When I played they apparently already patched this issue out but it was STILL a issue for me and my friend. Every time we grouped together and shared quests we still had to do things separately. Hit a switch well we both had to do it, heal 12 guards well we had to heal 12 separate guards it doesn't matter if he did 8 and I did 4 we still had to do 12 individually why bother sharing quests then?


&gt; What has been added or improved since the launch, has there been many new important content patches?

No more bots, no more loot dupe bug. They added a dye system change the color of your armor. Apparently a upcoming patch will make you kill NPC's and some new justice system is has ESO fans really hyped for it. 

&gt; How is the current end-game content for the game

Okayish I never got there but I heard it improved from what it initially was but still meh. I do know you can quest in other faction's areas when you hit late game. Yet you only see your faction players in those areas so thats really kind of lame. 

&gt; Is PVP fun and engaging

Sadly I never really like MMO PVP so I don't have much to say on the matter. 

All in all its a very underwhelming experience I might go back because its now free but I definitely wouldn't spend $60 on the game.  &gt; Hell even then the game makes you at times feel like a hero. You walk past someone they whisper oh wow thats the guy who killed that demon (another questline I did) and so thats pretty cool.

*"It's you!  The Hero of Kvatch!"* "By Azura, by Azura, it's the grand champion" Thanks for the honest and detailed feedback. Honestly I am quite surprised by the whole "nothing looks epic"... If games like this should learn one important lesson from similar games like WoW and even League of Legends, it's that players like(LOVE) to look nice. Customization and cosmetic items are HUGE and in a game like this, that should be a big focus. I mean LoL survives as a F2P game and rakes in huge amounts of money purely because of it's different character skins. Heck there is even a huge sub-system in WoW to allow you to 'transmog' your equipment to look like other stuff that you think looks cool, this is a great feature!

Why oh why would ESO be lacking in this area is beyond me, I am role playing a character killing monsters and other shit, I want my character to look badass, not just wearing some dull gray leather armor, just because that fits the lore and setting! I have to agree with most of what he said although I did like the way my character looked.  One thing I really enjoyed about the game was that the combat was much deeper than your standard fair WoW clone.  You have to actually time your attacks, parry and dodges.  You can choose between a quick slash for less damage or a powerful attack that takes longer to execute.  It gets even more interesting when you're taking on 2 or 3 monsters at once.  There's also a lot of customization within your class.  You can concentrate on your class powers or you can build up your weapon and armor skills. I have to say i hated the combat. As a melee, i found that at times my attacks were not connecting. This was at release, so maybe things got better, but combat felt very sloppy. I mean some armor is cool but completely underwhelming. I guess maybe WoW spoiled me a bit. Yet even then [this is late game armor.] ( http://eso-fashion.com/wp-content/uploads/sites/2/2014/02/eso-imperial-dragonknight-veteran-armor-male2.jpg)  Cool but nothing special since all heavy armor helmets look something like that. They added a dyeing system but I mean nothing changes but the color.  To be fair, aside from daedric armor, armor sets in Skyrim and oblivion were never exorbitantly flashy. They're just staying true to their roots in ESO tbh  And that was the trap ESO was in.

Much of Elder Scrolls is very mundane. Change it to be flashier and people complain it isn't like &lt;Skyrim, Oblivion, Morrowwind&gt;. Leave it the same people complain it is boring. &gt; They added a dyeing system but I mean nothing changes but the color. 

Dyeing system. Nothing changes but the color. Spectacular example of unrealistic expectations. He's not saying that a dyeing system should do more than change the color. He's saying there should be more than just a dyeing system. Or it's an example of missing some of the relevant context.

The most popular MMO, WoW, offers an item customization system that allows you to (for a cost) to change the appearance of one piece of equipment that you have to that another piece of equipment that you've acquired, with some limitations. Guild Wars 2 has a similar feature on top of a pretty robust dye system.

So in this case you shouldn't read it as "lol these dyes only change the color" but rather "the game only allows you to change the color of the armor, in contrast to the more liberal customization options that are possible." See I like that better than anything I've seen in other MMOs. WoW has absolutely horrendous looking weapons and armour, and the higher level you get the more ridiculous it is. I'd rather look like a real medieval warrior. My biggest gripe though is nothing looks that different. I get that the ESO universe isn't as cartoony as WoW yet at least make late game stuff look cool/standout a bit.  I can see your point if there's no variety, I just always really hated having Shoulder pads bigger than my head and a sword that looks like some kids art project. Yea all the armor in ESO is pretty bland and drab, every time I see a Guild picture with 20 characters in the photo I cringe at how similar and dull they all look. I played the game for 3 months at release. That's kinda true and not true, in Wow there is a variety; some things are, as you mentioned, ridiculous looking and break the lore/reality... but other stuff is perfectly in line with the style and look of the game and setting, as well as looking epic.

WoW has actually got better in this regard, I think some of the earlier exps had the most outrageous looking items.

My point is, you have the choice... plus with the transmog system you can basically wear whatever stat item you want and also have it look like whatever cosmetic item you want, best of both worlds. I think WoW is a bad example for non-players. People that have played WoW for a long time forget how silly the characters actually look. &gt; I'd rather look like a real medieval warrior.

You actually can accomplish that if you so wish in WoW.  Not all the armor in-game looks ridiculous. I try my best, but unfortunately a lot of the tamer stuff was old wow, with horrible textures and models compared to the new stuff. When you stand next to another level 100 it looks like you crawled out of Warcraft 3 into 2015 This is a major issue, which I think Blizzard is aware of, since they have reintroduced some models through other means or models that are quite similar in appearances. Atleast WoW brought in the transmorgrifying system, so if you found a low level armour you liked you could make it into your high level gear. It seems for a game Blizzard had significantly low expectations for, Blizzard did most things "right" with an MMO. A lot of other companies should be looking for a unique gameplay style, but should still take some lessons from Blizzard, especially in regards to aesthetic details.

Diablo 3 RoS is another example of a lot of aesthetic customization when it comes to armour. I just wish they would add some more unique unlockable transmogs to the game. It sucks that all that effort that couldve gone into making the game even more detailed had to go to re-building half the core mechanics of the game itself from Vanilla D3. To each his own. I love the huge weapons and shoulders of WoW. I'm a sucker for it. ESO and Age of Conans armor were so boring to me. I'll take that armor style out of the "gouge your eyes out with color and particle effects" style of WoW. Warcraft added transmogs a few years ago which lets you change the appearance of your weapons and armor to any equivalent style you own (e.g. dagger -&gt; dagger, cloth helm -&gt; cloth helm). You're free to make your gear as plain or crazy as you want. Some people use their favorite, flashy raid sets, others like /r/wow's /u/loknak make more [normal looking sets](http://i.imgur.com/2VXVubt.jpg). The best are people who lose a bet and have to recreate the old Burning Crusade clown suits.

But yeah, Warcraft made a pretty great system for people like you who hate the newer designs. The system is great in Diablo, too. If you love crafting in mmos, check the crafting system in FFXIV. in my personal opinion it's the best crafting system I've seen in any game ever.  While the crafting in FFXIV is deep and a minigame unto itself, the result is either the item you wanted or the item you wanted in high quality. The crafting in ESO, while very simple to use, offers far, far more variety than FFXIV's. You can choose what the item looks like, what bonus stats it'll have, what the item will look like, and what the item will look like! but can you choose what the item will look like?? You can do all of that in FFXIV. Getting a HQ crafted item is just the first step. After you craft it, you can meld materia to an item to customize your stats. Then you can glamour/dye it to make it look different.  That's sounds pretty amazing  Couldn't agree more. I hate crafting in every other game but FFxiv Me too. The only reason I have 700 crafting in wow is because I'm alchemy engineering and I bought a shit load of fish for like 300g and basically made mats and just powerlevel for cheap. The rest was crafting stuff for raids as crafting now makes absolutely no money. 

But in FFXIV I actually enjoy getting more crafts to 50,getting the cross class so I can get the extra skills. Trying to craft 2 and 3 star items, etc helping people powerlevel their crafts, crafting my own gear while leveling other classes &gt; No more bots

Yeah... no.  When I played I didn't really see any and most areas that were clogged with them were gone. Are they still in the game? The dull armor looks spell trouble to me. B2P games generally make money either selling content, or selling cosmetics. If the game doesn't have much going on cosmetically, that means it'll probably sell content. &gt; Is PVP fun and engaging, anything new/different here from the WoW style of PVP?

The PvP is three way [DAoC](http://www.darkageofcamelot.com/) style, complete with castles, sieges, and catapults.  The design is tons of fun.  Big sieges feel epic, but a dedicated crew of half a dozen people can take an undefended castle then fade away into the wilderness when a horde shows up.  PvP can be frustrating if you suck at it since (like war) there's a lot of waiting and moving, and then a brief bit of combat.

When I used to play there were some exploits that the devs hadn't anticipated that made certain combinations kinda broken.  While I expect those have been fixed it doesn't preclude more of the same.

There was no deathmatch nor dueling last year.  Maybe something like that has been added since. As a player who has invested over 500 hours into this game, I highly HIGHLY recommend you pick up the game ASAP. Let me address some of your points individually:

"What state is the game currently in":

The game has most definitely rebounded from its initial down months and release. Bots are and have been gone for 7 months. The community is still active and thriving, with zone chat being filled with people looking for groups for pledges (new undaunted daily quest), players are very much willing to help others learn the ropes. There are two pvp servers (in contrast to 1, wabbajack) that are pretty much  full of action. These servers are Thornblade and Haderus, with all the alliances battling it out on high pop servers so pvp is alive and well. Not to mention the new vet zones and update and expanded dungeons. ZOS has gone back and expanded pretty much all of the 1-50 dungeons to make them feel unique and large, adding to the player experience. Other updates include:

* Improved facial mechanics of AI (realistic speaking)
* Chat bubbles
* Less campaigns with more options (Non vet, Vet only, 30 day, etc)
* Crafting tutorial that teaches players the ropes and allows for crafters to fulfill daily crafting quests for more xp
* Updated werewolf quest and skill line
Now , to your other questions

"What has been added or improved..."

* More dungeons, more zones, more quests
* Undaunted pledges, allowing for players to receive high rewards for completing dungeons a certain way (EX. Complete fungal grotto without the aid of X or without killing adds
* New FOV slider that makes first person feel more natural, like skyrim
* You can now pick up more items in the world similar to Skyrim (Ex. If there is a sword on a rack, you can now pick that up)
* Armor Dyes allow for a unique and customization look
* Guild tabards allow for guilds to identify each other in game and give a sense of player unity
* Improved and expanded 1-50 dungeons, expanded werewolf skill line, Vet dungeons (that contain new and tougher content) 

I know im kinda answering all of your questions, but I want to be concise.

"How is the current end-game content"

* They added Craglorn and Upper Craglorn, which includes around 10-20 four man dungeons (similar to the ones in 1-50 zones EX: Banished Cells), also includes two trials (12 man dungeons, Hel Ra Citadel and Aetherian Archives) that are very very hard to complete (and repeatable)
* Quests in Craglorn are also all repeatable and they are in abundance
* They have added Dragonstar Arena, a PVE arena in Craglorn where you and your friends (up to 4) fight against waves of tough opponents in order to compete for high rewards. 
* Vet pledges allow for constant daily quests and high rewards, such as Dwemer armor sets (which ill explain) and other high armor loot
* There are also speed runs for achievements if you complete them at a certain time

"Is PvP fun....."

As a regular pvper, pvp in ESO is simply amazing. It offers many unique ways to play with cool objectives. Do you want to play with large groups of players to take keeps or defend scrolls? Simply type "LFG" and you will find people wiling to take you right away. Do you prefer playing small group, assassin type ganking warfare? There are plenty of ganking groups and guilds out there that would accept you. You could also form a group with your friends and help the fight that way. The awesome thing about ESO PvP is that no matter what the level or style of play or class, everyone can contribute to the fight. PvP is alive and well in ESO with two main servers available with others as well. Nothing beats the thrill of an alliance storming a keep, or capturing a scroll, or crowning and Emperor for their alliance. PvP will only get better with the release of the Imperial City soon, which will a PvP and PvE zone.

PS:: They added Dwemer motif pages that you can find in Dwemer ruins to craft the Dwemer style. They are rare and finding them is really cool and offers good reward. 

I hope I answered all of your questions.

**TL;DR:** ESO's community is alive and well with players. ZOS constantly makes updates and listens to feedback of its community and will continue to do so. The game has a ton of new content updates since beta and still has potential for so much more. So if you are hesitant about getting it, now is the time! 



 Hi, thanks for this detailed answer, I really appreciate this level of feedback.

Since you are here and obviously know a lot about ESO, could I ask you some specific more in-depth questions?

* Is there any kind of LFR or matchmaking for raid or group content? I am a wow player and love how easy it is to get into even the most hardcore content and stuff that is reserved for 20+ players, without having to invest lots of time and management into a guild or actually anything that takes away my time from playing the game. So, is it easy (or automated) to find players for this type of content in ESO, if I don't know anyone else in-game.

* Is it true what players above mentioned about cosmetic items not really looking very great or inspiring, and also epic items not really making your character look very epic. I understand the need to make everything look like it fits and not go too crazy on ridiculous designs, but again as a WoW player I really love making my character feel unique and stand out with how I want them to look. Spending all my hours just fighting in some realistic (but boring) mail, or plate armor, but no defining style or features, feels bland to me. Could you provide some references of what some cool looking armor and weapons in the game look like (sorry, I don't know any website resources online to find this)

Thanks! To counter the armor, undaunted dungeon quests result in "key" rewards that let you earn high end armor.  Saw a player yesterday decked out in armor that looked like a cross between Landos mask in star wars return of the jedi and a samurai.  You can craft daedra armor and every race's armor ( which varies per the initial class you choose. 

And you can tailor the colors to create a new look.  Google armor sets for a complete look.  I would buy it now that there's no sub. I enjoyed it. 

The combat is the best part about it. In fact, I hope they do something similar to it for the next title. PVP was also great. 

The biggest problem is that it fails at being what it was designed to be: an MMO. A social experience. It punishes you for grouping by making the quests unsharable and difficult to coordinate with others. It's this weird combination of a terrible single player and a terrible MMO. 

The quests themselves are slightly interesting, with NPC's that acknowledge what you have done, but they present you with walls of text that make it boring to read it all.  &gt; It's this weird combination of a terrible single player and a terrible MMO.

Wouldn't that just make it a terrible game overall? This change will actually make me want to play it. As an adult, I just don't have a concrete gaming schedule to really know if I could take full advantage of a sub. 

With free to play, I'm able to come and go as I please and not worry about not playing for a few weeks or more at a time. This should be a positive change in my mind. It's Buy To Play (the Guild Wars 1/2 and The Secret World model), not Free-To-Play. There's no difference from your point of view since you still don't have to pay a sub, but there is a difference in how the cash shop will be handled. 

I'm hoping it won't be a full-on F2P cash shop, and will stick to more cosmetic items + xp boosts or whatnot, the way GW2 does it. I still agree, this is a positive change, and might make me purchase the game now. Exclusive character progression bonuses for the duration of membership

    10% bonus to experience point gain
    10% bonus to crafting research
    10% bonus to crafting inspiration gain
    10% bonus to gold acquisition
Gold is kinda pay-to-win, though that's not too much luckily. Did they decrease the overall base EXP gain?

I worry that you will have to have a membership or be forced to grind out levels to keep up. Atm you outlevel your quests already if are a completionist and aren't doing any grinding. I wouldn't worry unless it's something crazy like 50 %. Good news! in ESOlive they said they are never going to nerf xp gain!

Link: http://www.twitch.tv/zenimaxonlinestudios/v/3711373 &gt;I'm hoping it won't be a full-on F2P cash shop, and will stick to more cosmetic items + xp boosts or whatnot, the way GW2 does it. I still agree, this is a positive change, and might make me purchase the game now.

From a business model perspective, it is very difficult for a paid MMO game to survive and profit on light cosmetics/boosts as the only cashshop items.

The cost of running and maintaining MMOs (or any persistent online game mmo or not) is very high. It is not just servers, but all the support, monitoring, system adminstration, IT, networking have to work literally around the clock to keep an online game up and running 24/7. On top of that, developers have to keep putting new content into the game to keep players around. Hacks and exploits have to be fixed. etc. etc. 

However, these costs don't really scale with the total number of players. Actually, as the number of players go up linearly, the costs associated with hosting all those players scales logarithmically. For example, a team of 10 engineers can maintain 1000 servers, but it may only take 20 engineers to maintain 10000 servers, and 30 engineers to maintain 100,000 servers.

This is why many persistent online games go free-to-play. The game becomes like a market place but with very expensive rent. To keep the game afloat, they will have to be VERY aggressive with converting players into making repeated purchases, either through the premium subs or with micro-transactions. The benefit of having more players playing the game exceeds the cost it is to have that player in the game, paying or not.

 It will be F2P in months. Mark my words. Save your money and buy some games on Steam. ES:O is nothing amazing, not worth forking over 50 for.

It is like /u/Aeriela said, it's Star Wars The Old Republic all over again. So /u/Aeriela deleted his post, I'm assuming once a few people pointed out he wasn't really right, so I guess I'll put it here now.

I don't know why we're comparing this to The Old Republic because TOR went from a subscription fee, to free to play. A better example would be The Secret World which went buy to play. TSW is still, despite less than stellar popularity, buy to play.

And second, if it did go the way of TOR then that'd be a good thing 'cause TOR makes metric fuck-tons of money. TSW is still an awesome game if you anyone want to take a look, even if it's very poorly optimized the concept is very good and the end-game offers great challenge. TSW is like my favorite MMO ever, but I have trouble recommending it 'cause the combat was so-so. I love the story and I love the setting though. The quests are some of the most unique ideas I've ever seen in an MMO. The investigations are half adventure puzzle game, half ARG.  Good times though. I once downloaded a morse code translator to my phone to solve one of those And I think TOR would be much better off today if it went buy to play instead of strict f2p. Its cash shop and the insane restrictions on free accounts means I cannot get anyone else to ever try it because the game is so broken without spending $5 nobody wants to give it a chance.

Restricting the number of action bars is the greatest sin. I had all my friends playing it to level 15 before it went free to play, and some of them even bought it, but nobody got past level ~8 on the f2p mode because it is so shit. I haven't looked to see if they have improved it at all in this last year since I just gave up. Agree that the ToR F2P is just horrible.  That said, it's really a demo.  It's really not intended for people to play the game as a F2P player.  There are so many restrictions.    I don't see the market for an amazing game that doesn't have a revenue stream in the form of subs.  I see okay or sub-par games in this market, but not a AAA game. My problem with TOR was on release, you were clearing all the end-game content within the first two weeks.  Once you got all your items... there was nothing else but PvP and wait for expansions/DLC.  Which the first DLC was also cleared within like 5-6 days by my guild.  After that we left.  I loved the game, thought it was amazing.  The stories, classes, cut scenes, areas etc etc were all amazing and extremely high quality.  I just wanted the game to be harder, and it to feel like I had achieved something. You can get the game for 12 / 10 at 3rd party key stores.

And I also don't really remember games that went from buy to play to free to play. Buy to play seems to be a quite stable business model. Last game I think was Defiance. It went Buy to play, then free to play. Ah, Defiance...such wasted potential. How about it dude? Loved the TV series-game crossover concept, just piss poor execution. TV-show isn't too bad, but the game was meh last time I played it. Star Trek Online also did this Ahh, is there any game that TRION didn't fuck up? &gt;3rd party key stores.

Such as? 

 [deleted] Can you expand on the current state of a F2P account? I bought and played the game at release, only got to around level 30 or so on multiple classes (agent being my favorite), but had to stop playing due to rl issues. Anyway, anytime I think about checking it out again I keep remembering people saying that they removed so many basic things from F2P accounts that you practically have to buy stuff to enjoy the experience. Can you perhaps address this? Thanks much! There were things (like hotbars and the like) removed from F2P. However, since you bought the game at release your account is "premium" or w/e status. That removes the major restrictions like only having 1 crew skill, 2 character slots, and 2 quick bars. The game is playable at premium status. 

That said, if you pay monthly you get a exp boost (like 20% or so) and alot of other quality of life improvements.

More detail here: http://www.swtor.com/free/features/ This is what a lot of people fail to realize too. You can subscribe for a month, let it expire and go into preferred status which is WAY better than the Free Status. F2P is good for the first ~20 levels of a character. After that the restrictions are noticeable. 

Premium (single 5$ payment) is more than enough to play through all the class stories &amp; enjoy it (of course you will have a lot of overlapping missions for each faction, but that's a general, not account type problem). 

If you want to enjoy max level content you will probably need to pay for some additional features.  Honestly, I payed the sub for that game. It was fun enough and I sank enough hours into it I didn't even feel bad about the sub fee. Plus the bonuses were well worth it IMO. SWTOR is not the game it was on release that people enjoyed. It's not a circlejerk. Neither is TESO. It's a much better game right now than it was at launch.  I sure hope so. I played the beta and was completely underwhelmed.

Unfortunately, that experience lingers, and will probably keep my attention on other games. Which is why I think this is a good move for them! It's a bit of a re-branding, and getting rid of the stigma of a less than impressive beta/launch. No it is a circle jerk because people trash the game all the time still without playing it in its current state Played at launch and played a month or two ago, I really like pretty much nothing about what has changed.  I mean seriously, paying for hotbars?  That is some sinister ass shit right there.  For some reason I think I remember that near the top left of your screen there is always an icon present for the fuckin shop or some bullshit.  Or like they added popups or something.  All I know is I wasn't able to get very far before I got tired of all that shit. Paying for *hotbars?* Is that a fucking joke or something? as was said previously you only pay for hotbars past 3. 3 is enough to cover all your skills as a class just not enough to put all the silly emotes and mounts and fluff stuff. To get those hotbars you literally only need to pay $5. And not just for the hotbars. So long as you either have in the past or will pay $5 on anything at all in the game they unlock the extra hotbars. Hardly as horrible as people make it out to be. I think SWTOR took the F2P concept a touch too far. In addition to the hotbars, I couldn't go an hour without the game beating me over the head about how much easier my life would be as a premium (subscribing) member. It didn't make me want to pay...it made me want to quit. I'm not against buying some items - they deserve money for their work, but don't cripple the gameplay and then constantly remind me about it. It's F2P, nothing is stopping people from playing it. Most people probably have played it if they have any interest in it. I know I gave it another go a few months after they went F2P and it was *terrible*. 

It's not really an F2P title unless you only care about leveling and experiencing subpar story through tedious MMO questing. It's more of an unlimited free trial, with restrictions everywhere. IIRC, you're limited to something ridiculous like 5 battlegrounds a week as a free player, 3 dungeons, 3 space missions, etc. You'll need to purchase different "passes" for each to go over those limits and you simply can't raid unless you subscribe. You're limited to 2 action bars; the rest are behind a pay wall, you can't hide your helmet unless you're a subscriber, races are locked behind pay walls, you can't equip epics (purples) unless you pay, and so many more. EA is just nickel and diming the shit out of you, so you pretty much are forced to subscribe but then they have a full, intrusive cash shop in-game on top of your subscription!

This is ignoring the faults the game has outside of its payment model, such as a completely unimmersive world gated by loading screens everywhere, empty environments, lazy area design with copy/pasted textures and models (oh god, the Imperial/Republic Fleets), the most linear questing system in existence, no meaningful choices in the skill trees, etc.

Literally not a circle jerk, the game is terrible.  Yeah all that stuff you're bitching about having to unlock?  You're neglecting to mention that you can buy all of them with in game currency.  You can literally save up to buy the QOL unlocks you want by simply playing the game.

The other restrictions aren't over the top.  The only one I disagree with is the hotbar thing but that's it.  

They want you to sub to their game - not give it all away for free and they give one of the most unique aspects (all 8 stories) for free.

The fleets aren't anything special but I'd disagree on the planet design.  You must not have been to Ilum, Oricon, Rishi or Makeb (a few of my personal favorites, though everybody has their own)

The cash shop isn't "intrusive on top of your subscription"  you literally never have to look at it.  They do give you coins to spend in it if you want every month though. I'm with you, I started playing a month ago and subscribed. I like the game. I like the storyline and the missions are fun to me. Some are annoying, but it's not terrible. I miss some SWG things like guild cities and such, but overall I like SWTOR. Is it perfect nope? It does feel like Star Wars though and I enjoy that aspect. That's why I play it.

I'll probably go back and play ESO again when it goes B2P simply because I have a character that's high enough to be relevant. I've said this since the beta. This game does have a few things that set it apart from other MMOs out there, but nothing about this game came off as truly spectacular. When I played the game was two weeks from release, and a good chunk of the quests simply didn't work. Some of these quests were even required to complete to continue playing. After the game launched I heard it still suffered from broken quests. I'm sure they've fixed most if not all of the quests by now, but even looking beyond that the game felt very bland and uninteresting. I'll probably try it out once it's completely free to play, but even then I don't know if I would waste the HD space. It's $14 on G2A. Swtor was worth the money. Hell I'd say it's worth a subscription, but it's not enough content to keep me playing for more than ~1-2 months. You'll have much more fun playing Skyrim/Oblivion/Morrowind with some fresh mods in my opinion. I would but I honestly want to play with my friends in the setting. It sounds like awesome fun even if the scope and feeling of power is compromised.  Sad that they heard "We want a multiplayer TES game" and decided that multiplayer is best done as an MMO. A 4-man team clearing dungeons in Skyrim would be super fun, but we have to put up with all the other BS now. That's true, but I don't think a Borderlands-style TES game would work very well myself, it would have to be built around that idea and I don't think I want that.  More like I can drop in on your world with my character and help you do your quests. Doesn't have to be fancy, just simple multiplayer and fans would be overjoyed. I just wanted a proper co-op mode to play with friends. Definitely. ESO felt like it had all the bad parts of Skyrim combined with all the bad parts of MMORPGs, with none of the advantages of either genre (not for the player, at least). Yes, very disappointing.  
Went in hoping for the massive Elder Scrolls world on the Skyrim engine with other players and the full range of customizable classes.  
Found World of Warcraft 1.1 Which is funny because World of Warcraft is currently on version 6.0.3 Kinda what I was going for.  
not only did they imitate generic MMO's, but they did it in a stale and outdated way. 

I was REALLY looking forward to the destruction of the MMO *Holy Trinity* through the fully customizable classes. But, nope. Still just tank/healer/DPS running generic kill and retrieve quests. &gt; was REALLY looking forward to the destruction of the MMO Holy Trinity through the fully customizable classes.

That can be really, really hard to balance.  Look at the original star wars galaxies. With thousands of builds people were able to game out the "perfect" pvp build.  Then the complaining and change, now you have a new "perfect" and more complaining.  It got to the point they were re-balancing every week and not working on real improvements the game needed.  The game suffers as a small minority argue over stacking trip modifiers.  Same here. I might give it a go. Yeah, as I get older I also get a weird paradox of feeling I should get my hard earned money's worth out of things while also feeling guilty if I'm playing too constantly (there's stuff I need to do, after all). Flat cost game subscriptions just end up being a trap in that situation. [deleted] Also depends on how exactly they plan to raise money. 

Cosmetics? 10/10

Pay for OP loot? 0/10 I got dissapointed at first but then i realise its coming to consoles and thats probably the reason for b2p,It will make many of my friends play the game so i may make a switch to console myself. Likewise, the sub has pushed me away, but with it also launching on consoles too I will probbaly have to give this a go.  [deleted] [deleted] That's a common fallacy with subscriptions. As another working adult with a 7-5, I'm subbed to FFXIV and I get a ton of enjoyment out of it even only playing a couple of hours a night with other working adults, and I don't feel like I'm missing out on anything if I miss a week or two because I know it'll still be there when I come back. At $12.99/month, which is the price of a movie ticket, you'd only need to play 3-4 hours *a month* to "get your money's worth" if speaking in pure economic terms.

There are other factors in it for me too, like supporting an awesome dev team and consuming MMO content that's more casual (in contrast to my EverQuest days when I was playing 6-14 hours a day as somebody with no responsibilities).

In the end it comes down to the fact that paying a monthly subscription fee to not have to deal with shitty microtransactions and hollow lockbox-style/gambler's fallacy content updates is completely worth it. But you have to consider the fact that all the time you spend paying for it and not playing it FEELS like you're throwing money away even if you understand in your logical mind that three or four hours a month is enough to get your money's worth.

And that can be stressful in and of itself. To me, that's like saying that all the time I don't have my television on or I'm not listening to Spotify is me just throwing money away on subscriptions.   I can see where you're coming from, but at least for me, I feel like most MMOs aren't structured to be played 3-4 hours a month.  For most, it feels like you have to put in a bunch of hours to really get the full experience and I just don't feel like I have that kind of time (regardless of whether or not I need a subscription). I played the closed beta weekends before the initial release. I enjoyed it very much, but was never willing to subscribe to it. Now that it will be going Buy to Play I will definitely be picking it up. Buy to play the core game. I bet they will be making a crap ton of DLCs which are not included. Still nice for people who already bought it but stoped playing it though. If the game is really fun, I wouldn't mind a Guild Wars approach. Pay for a massive expansion once or twice a year, no subscription required.

As long as it isn't "Unlock the new Super Castle Dungeon only $4.00 if you preorder today" Don't sell tiny bits of content that fracture the community, sell expansions.  The article seems to suggest that additional content beyond what's in game now will only be available with subscription...  It's fine to sell extra high quality content. The Secret World works that way and it's a fantastic system for the game. 

Having no sub but paying for mini expansions is the most fair system for an MMO IMO - people will only pay for new content en mass if it's good quality which encourages the devs to make good stuff that's actually worth paying for. It's a win win for core players and the devs.

The devs deserve to be paid for their hard work after all. On a slightly related note, I laughed my ass off at the first paragraph of the [sister article](http://www.pcgamer.com/the-death-of-the-subscription-mmo/). 

&gt;"The inevitable has happened. Today Bethesda announced that The Elder Scrolls Online will be dropping the subs model in favour of an "ESO plus" system that seemingly lets you pick and choose bits of new content you want to pay for. Bar a few key holdouts like World of Warcraft, Final Fantasy XIV, Wildstar and Eve Online, the monthly payment model has fallen our of favour. Is the subscription MMO finally dead?"

Yea guys, sub mmos are dying...save for the biggest MMO and some other pretty big games... I would totally buy a lackluster Elder scrolls MMO as long as I didn't have to pay to keep it.

also I had a dream last night I was playing this, having never played it before. I would like to announce that I am a genie. The thing is its not a bad game, it's got a lot of good things going for it, but the subcription is just not worth it  You're right, it's not a bad game, not by any stretch of the word.  It's just not a *good* game, either.  ESO is just kind of...there. Would you say it's worth it, if only for the setting/lore and soundtrack? If you just want to learn about the lore, you can read any of the wikis for free.  To me, it just didn't feel like I was in Tamriel.  It felt like Fantasy World #42567 that just uses some of the same place/people names as TES.  

The soundtrack I don't really have any basis to judge, unfortunately.

Again, to be clear, I can see people enjoying the game.  I could see myself putting some money into the game if it were a F2P model.  It's just not worth $60, IMO. I've wastefully kept a WoW subscription going the last few months considering how rarely I chip away at levelling my character. I might consider cancelling that for a while and checking out this in my spare time instead. (Honestly, Wii U has taken over most of my gaming time lately. Mario 3D World FTW) Yes! Finally! I am in full support of the "pay once and get it all" model for mmo's. Definitely going to get it now. Everybody saw this coming, I saw it coming as soon as I played the closed beta.

The subscription model will only work if the developers are regularly releasing high quality content every couple of months, not only that but **their game needs to stand on it's own two legs for the development cycles in-between content patches**. Veteran rewards do nothing and will not sustain a player population, they need to release content that will keep their entire playerbase engaged and willing to pay monthly. 

This is a common error I see in every MMO that went F2P, some with great gameplay but ultimately couldn't release content fast enough and lost subscription numbers. Aion, Tera, SWOTOR, RIFT, and now ESO (B2P). Once a p2p mmo goes f2p/B2P, I see it as a bad thing towards develoment as the dev team now needs to shift gears over on how to make a monetize their game and slow down with quality content.

WoW and FFXIV are the two of few p2p juggernauts because they are able to keep their players in that game, appealing to all players across the board. FFXIV (Being the game i play), releases a major content patch which contains another teir of a major raid, new crafting teir,new dungeons and new toys to play with every 3 months, they don't pander specifically towards a demographic, instead they try appeal to all players from hardcore to average Joe. 

EVE is a special case, they follow a different kind of approach towards their game's structure, I don't fully understand it myself. So I can't really explain it well myself.  

P2P Isn't dead, it's the businesses that fail to fully understand and adopt this model that are dying.  Eve works because it's a different animal all together. The game revolves solely around PVP content, even if you *think* you're doing PVE. You kill mobs for drops while avoiding real Player pirates, wars and market competition (market PvP). 

Because of this, there's always something new. They don't *need* regular content updates because the in game politics and dynamics change by the day. Every time I logged in, I had no idea what I'd be up to that day. That kept the game fresh for the 4 years or so I played in a way even WoW couldn't match.  Yet even so, CCP releases content every 6 ~~months~~ weeks.

If only my friends (still) played, I would. I really want to get into EVE.  I subscribe every few months when there's a monster sale, but by the time my 3 months are over I realize I've spent three months just logging in the change my training queue.

It has so much potential.  I just suck as a player and I'm terrible at PvP in any game ever. Well, luckily now the training queue is unlimited. You can just set your queue to be 3 months long and never log in! Join EVE University or RvB next time.  If you're playing alone, you're not gonna have fun. I think the problem is developers don't know what makes an MMO good and cant take risks making something new.

We see clone after clone after clone of world of warcraft. But none of these games are better at being WoW then WoW is. And if your product isn't better then you have to offer something new. All of these clones are... clones(they hardly offer anything we have not seen before). And if it isn't better and does not offer something new, then you have to beat the competition with a lower price(no more subscriptions).

So I see the real problem as "why don't we see any MMOs that are not wow clones". And the problem with that is building an MMO cost more then probably any other type of game. Every MMO is a huge risk with massive up front costs and long term costs. So they understandably make a wow clone because they want to model their game after what works. The only problem is, WOW clones don't work. I see it as basically a fact now.

You can look at WOWs success, but how can you ignore the countless failures.
 WoW is a pinnacle of what a theme park mmo is, because of the fact they capitalized on a growing market. Not only did that have the success of warcraft 3 to ride on but blizzard saw potential in the market and refined the mmo formula.

When an mmo is developed there are two simple but specific guidelines to be achieved here. Firstly they need a game that can engage a player. Secondly they need to keep that player engaged in order to maintain subscription numbers.  Failing to do either will result in a flop.

Thats why theme park MMO game development has become so formulaic  and that's why it's difficult to innovate with this category. Because the formula itself caters to our human nature, do something then get bored of it and move on. Challenge; engage an audience, keep them engaged for three months.

That's why we see arbitrary lockouts, dailies, weekly gear lockouts, RNG. Without these kinds of mechanics, a player is likely going to quickly over gear and quit once they run out of things to do. Put this in a major single player game element and it's a death wish. I'm curious as to why myself, I want to learn more why this works in an mmo but not a single player game.

If you strip an average theme park mmo into the actual meat of the game itself, it's actually pretty lean.

The average consumer of video games is very much like a child. Play with toys, quit after X amount of hours because they are bored of it. Same logic can be applied to games.  How many games do you own? After beating them how many did you revisit?  Chances are you won't revisit most of them because you've seen it all already. 
 This is great news for me. Adopting the Guild Wars 2 model now has me eagerly awaiting ESO's console release.  People should've anticipated this coming. Anyone that bought in early was just extra cash for Bethseda and unfortunately, that's just how this goes. The rocky launch along with how embarrassingly the game failed to live up to ESO's legacy just failed to keep the market interested.

Speaking of which, how's the player count these days? Those PvP zones would be pretty boring without a good handful of people romping about. People did anticipate this coming. All over this subreddit and others were people saying it would drop the subscription and go free to play and all sorts of things within months. Very few people here were impressed initially. If anything, what happened is less than anticipated. [deleted] A lot of people on the actual ESO sub seemed pretty fucking confident that the stock recalls and removal of a 6-month sub were in no way indicative of b2p/f2p coming. It was actually kind of sad yet comical how certain some of them were it would remain sub-based. The sub also was claiming they were voted mmo of the year after a vote where the top winner was "no mmo should win" That was one guy. Please don't judge an entire subreddit by a fanatical member and his supporters. Well, it was on their front page until it got exposure on other subreddits. supporters means it was not one guy. Yeah I frequent the ESO subreddit and just can't stand some of the attitudes there. Some of the most adamant b2p deniers are now saying "well, who cares right?" as if we weren't getting downvoted for acknowledging it was going b2p only a week ago... And now we're dealing with people that think paid DLC is p2w lol. MMOs in particular attract this True Believer type who live in a reality distortion bubble where their game of choice would be the smashing success it deserves to be if only it weren't for the haters/whiners/WoW kiddies/the entitled/whatever. WildStar threads are a good example of this. &gt;within months. 

That late? I was saying it when the game was still in beta! Apparently loads of bugs that were in the beta STILL haven't been fixed to this date.  I remember a bug in a beta test where you couldn't leave the starting dungeon. Instead of ascending out of the area you instead fall down a pit until you disconnect. Fun times. There was also a bug where you had to kill a certain Wraith or something and it would NEVER spawn. It was needed to complete a big questline and it just wouldn't spawn for anyone. You had 15 - 20 people camped out at the spawn site hoping for it to show and it never did.  there were lots of these.  It seemed any time you had to find an NPC to kill, there were problems with them spawning. 

I played 2 beta sessions, and both were so riddled with missing NPCs I stopped playing after so many tries.  When I spent the first session with more time submitting bug reports and lengthy explanations of how it occurred, then saw every one of my bugs I encountered found in the following session (like a month later) I was done with that faction, and hoped a different one worked...rerolled and had a little better time, but seemed that the previous faction area has soured me. That was identical to my experience. I took the time to log all those bug reports during the first beta and then when almost none of them were addressed on the next run, I decided that I'll wait for some time after release for them to finally be forced to handle the larger bugs.  the real elder scrolls feeling :D I have been in several MMO betas. This problem was not exclusive to TESO. The community screamed and moaned during the SWG beta; that game needed at least 6 more months. Even World of Warcraft had a lot of bugs and several features which needed ironed out. (And a few them *still* exist, 10 freaking years later!)

Sometimes beta testers feel like we're nothing more than free pre-launch hype and word of mouth, NDAs not-with-standing. Yep. Exactly. I'd love to see how much "feedback" companies actually use from beta testers. Some do but most don't. Betas are just pre-release demos at this point. It's sad :(  PvP is still really healthy, I was off work yesterday and played around 2pm and the PvP instance I was in was almost full for all three factions. Is the faction based PvP anything like gw2 wvw?  GW2 is one of the few MMOs I never got around to playing. But the PvP zone is a large open world zone (All of Cyrodiil from Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion). There are three factions that initially start in the north west. North east, and south of the map. The goal is to capture keeps around the imperial city and if your faction has them all at the same time the person in your faction who is top of the score board becomes emperor who has vastly increased stats and cool armor. You also capture other keeps for bonuses and capture elder scrolls which acts like capture the flag. And elder scrolls give you bonuses to offense and defense as well if you have captured enough. It's honestly pretty fun, the castle sieges can get pretty huge and setting up ambushes or being caught in one for scroll carriers is really fun.  yeah, sounds like WvW. Do you have to be high level to participate? To participate?  No. To not get crushed like an ant?  Yes.  k basically what I expected.

from another comment, your stats get boosted, but you'd lack high level gear, so you'd only be able to contribute by manning siege, or being a meatshield. Its the same way in GW2.

How much time would it take someone to get to an effective point in the Faction stuff? I spent nearly all my time in the WvW stuff so the Faction PVP is pretty much the only thing I'd want to play this game for. I play PvP on one of the factions. The game let's you join up to 5 player run guilds, many of them PvP centered ones.  Even at a lower level you feel useful ( not one on one or versus many); you get to operate siege engines and assault keeps.  At times the faction rivalries keep it interesting, especially when two sides form a mutual alliance against the other.  

It has its problems but I found the PvP to be overwhelmingly strong(like a wish for mmo PvP to be thousands strong)
  It boosts your stats, and even if you're not as strong as fully geared people you can still man siege weapons or defenses or act as a meat shield.  No,But the real fun pvp starts at high levels. Feels more rewarding How many total players between these factions? Is it like Warhammer Online where there can be hundreds at  a time? I love that kind of PvP instead of small-scale ones... I want to say that each faction is capped between 200-300 people each per instance but I am not entirely sure. The battles can get fairly large and intense.  I'm a ex player of the game and when I played it I knew it was going to go F2P/B2P/no sub it just looked like it would. The only ones who never believed it was the eso subreddit. I might go back to it now though. It was mediocre but slightly fun but not $15 a month fun. Sounds like the Wildstar subreddit. The entire fucking game got condensed down to two severs and there are still not that many people who play. Go over to the sub and say anything negative or concerning about the game and your post is deleted. Games die, people need to move on.  Just 2 days ago a guy was telling me there is NO PROOF ESO  is removing the sub. All the while being smug about it. The ESO fanbase is very weird they even brag about paying a sub fee I kid you not.

I guess the small remaining fanbases of dying MMO's like ESO and Wildstar are just angry delusional people who try to alter reality or something.  Hell, go over there now, they are all doom and gloom because it's going B2P, talking about how the community is going to tank because of it. If they had their heads even halfway out of their own asses they'd realize there is still a barrier to entry that will filter out a lot of the scum and villainy that plays F2P. Yeah I will admit after I heard the news I friggin ran over to that sub to see the outcry since like 2 weeks ago there was a thread and people were threatening to leave if they remove subs. I just don't get it this will do nothing but add more players to the game. Back when I played the game already felt barren and it was 2 months after it launched. Its this or let the game silently die. At least this gives it a chance.  You think that's bad? Firefall man. Not even once. OH god I forgot about that mess. I remember I waited months for the alpha/beta invite. I finally got one liked the game then forgot about it. I went back to it when it launched and just meh. So much wasted potential.  I was so hyped when I heard about the FPS mmo coming. Played in the beta and it was somewhat fun but nothing terribly exciting, and then lost interest when I would run out of ammo in the middle of big battles and I had to just stand around and watch or leave the action You should try it now - secondary has unlimited ammo + i kinda like it now. I played Wildstar for three months after the launch and frequented the subreddit and criticism of the game was posted on a daily basis. I think that everyone knew the problems the game had so discussing them was ok. It may have changed now though because many people dropped the game.  I really did want to believe, but when I neared end game and saw how awful it was I realized I was delusional.  Going B2P would have been amazing for this game at the beginning.

So many people I know liked the game, but felt they didn't like it enough to warrant a monthly subscription.

Now I will certainly go and pick this game up. Is the game any good? All I remember from the beta was that the graphics were pretty good for an MMO. Does have interesting quests and story-lines? You're not going to get a solid answer on that at all. I loved the quests and whatnot, but others will probably disagree. 

Edit: To me, I found the story pretty interesting and loved the voice acting. I enjoyed every bit of playing through each alliance's zone to see how the story would unfold, though the way you transition to each new alliance was a bit strange (from a story-line standpoint). To add to all this you get to experience the variety of Tamriel, which was pretty awesome. YEEEEEEEEEEEEES! I can't wait to pick this up. I've been wanting it since launch (shitty reviews be damned!) I just want to walk around Tamriel with friends and kill stuff. I will gladly buy this now that the subscription is being dropped. &gt;The Elder Scrolls Online: Tamriel Unlimited goes live on March 17.

So is this the date I can log into my existing account and start playing without a sub? I'm a little confused.  Sweet, been wanting to play this one. Let me guess, though, not for Linux? The PvP in this game is fresh and awesome.

The other aspects of the game were kinda MEH at launch at best. This will cause me to re-install the game and test the waters again.

I hope they've improved! I'm interested in how important the ESO Plus subscription will be. 

I recently went back and played SWTOR for a few weeks, and while the story is free and all, the game just takes away so many little things and squeezed as much enjoyment out of the game as it possibly could. 

I mean, you can play through 8 different stories and that's pretty amazing. But they made sure to disable or hide as many tiny little features, like additional action bars, behind a pay-wall to encourage subscription or buying coins.

~~Even buying a subscription in the game wouldn't unlock everything, as you would hope, but only give you some coins to spend on these things. I didn't want to buy a subscription only to know that I didn't have access to every damn thing.~~

Edit: See below &gt; Even buying a subscription in the game wouldn't unlock everything, as you would hope, but only give you some coins to spend on these things.

In SWTOR?  Subscribing gives you everything.  Literally nothing is locked out for subscribers. &gt;**What restrictions are being placed on the game and players now that subscriptions are no longer required to play?**
&gt;&gt;None. The Elder Scrolls Online: Tamriel Unlimited is the full version of the game, with all previous updates and content additions, including the new Champion and Justice systems.

&gt;**What are the benefits of ESO Plus membership?**
&gt;&gt;ESO Plus offers members exclusive in-game bonuses, a reoccurring allotment of crowns and access to all downloadable content (DLC) game packs for the duration of membership:

&gt;&gt;30-day Membership:

&gt;&gt;* 1500 crowns at the start of each 30-day membership period
* Access to all downloadable content for the duration of membership
* Exclusive character progression bonuses for the duration of membership
* 10% bonus to experience point gain
* 10% bonus to crafting research
* 10% bonus to crafting inspiration gain
* 10% bonus to gold acquisition
 

&gt;&gt;90-day Membership:

&gt;&gt;* 4500  crowns at the start of each 90-day membership period
* Access to all downloadable content for the duration of membership
* Exclusive character progression bonuses for the duration of membership
* 10% bonus to experience point gain
* 10% bonus to crafting research
* 10% bonus to crafting inspiration gain
* 10% bonus to gold acquisition
 

&gt;&gt;180-day Membership:

&gt;&gt;* 9000 crowns at the start of each 180-day membership period
* Access to all downloadable content for the duration of membership
* Exclusive character progression bonuses for the duration of membership
* 10% bonus to experience point gain
* 10% bonus to crafting research
* 10% bonus to crafting inspiration gain
* 10% bonus to gold acquisition

https://help.elderscrollsonline.com Since there is no bonus for longer memberships (and in fact, you have to wait up to 6 months to get your money), wouldn't it be a better idea to just go month by month? Took a little longer than I expected, but it was inevitable.  I'm still convinced the game will go fully F2P in the next year, but it's hard to compete in a market full of high quality free (or cheap) alternatives. 

The model works for Guild Wars 2, so maybe it will work for ESO too.  However, considering how underwhelmed I was by the game during the late open beta phase, I'm still not sure if I'd actually go spend money to play it. &gt; The model works for Guild Wars 2, so maybe it will work for ESO too.

I think the model worked so well for GW2 because it was part of the hype.  Say what you want about ArenaNet but they made an absolutely gorgeous game and delivered on nearly all their launch promises.  Unfortunately, many people at the time didn't realize how much they actually enjoy the gear grind, the trinity system, and how obnoxious aoe circles can be.  I loved GW2 for the time that I played it, but the game largely lacked that carrot on a stick to keep me playing and the combat system's lack of clear roles actually hurt the gameplay in my opinion.

That said, GW2 remains the best looking MMO that I've ever played.  That painterly asthetic and the fluid animations were just stunning throughout.  I still load it up every few months to just walk around for a bit. &gt; That said, GW2 remains the best looking MMO that I've ever played. That painterly asthetic and the fluid animations were just stunning throughout. I still load it up every few months to just walk around for a bit.

This is one of the things that I really like about the 'pay once, play forever' model of MMOs like GW2 - when I maintained a monthly subscription to an MMO that required it (first EQ, then FFXI, then WoW), I felt obligated to play the hell out of the game day in and day out to get my money's worth.  With the GW2 model, I'm perfectly happy picking the game up, playing for a couple weeks until I get my fill, then dropping it for a few months.  It makes playing an MMO a much more relaxing experience. Yes yes everyone seems to be happy that they are doing this but what leaves a bad taste in my mouth is how they went about this. From the start they were triple-dipping with a paywall/sub/cash-shop. They had the cash shop functionally working before many of the game's systems were working. What this told me from the game is that they were going to triple-dip for an indeterminate amount of time, but were planning from the start to switch to a F2P or B2P model once their profits dipped past a certain point, and that it would be fairly quickly. Now we aren't even a year in and they've done exactly that. Which sure, maybe that's just business, but it seems to be punishing their early and most devoted fans by gouging their wallets for as long as they could on the PC market before switching to a payment scheme that seems eerily suited specifically for console buyers. Pretty scummy IMO, makes it seem that they don't respect their consumers.  There was no cash shop dude. There was a mount you could buy at one point but that's about it.  LALALA CAN'T HEAR YOU LALALALA PAY TO WIN CASH SHOP PIECE OF SHIT LALALA [deleted] [deleted] I'll definitely pick this up in the future then. I mainly just wanted to do the storyline anyway. I don't like MMOs but when I played the beta I enjoyed it. I just didn't "$15 a month" enjoy it. Won't be as good as a real Elder Scrolls game but I enjoyed the story from what I played of it. This sounds fucking phenomenal, is there some kind of catch? Or is it just the base game without a subscription? Could it be that they planned this switch before moving to consoles from the start? I mean, can they have a subscription fee on consoles? They probably would have to share it with Sony or Microsoft. FF14 is on Playstation, right? But it seems to be owned by Sony, so this is different. There's been plenty of games with sub on consoles. Hell, I used to play Phantasy Star on the original Xbox, and that had a sub.  About time. I enjoyed the content when it was first released, however I didn't feel it was worth paying a sub for. Now I'm more than happy to jump back into it. How feasible is it to play this game as a 2, 3 or 4 player co-op?

Is it fun? I got a pet code from Pax last year. If anyone is going to start playing. Have at it.

9CNFHPTF9HP5GY4WATW9 I played the beta of the game and honestly I enjoyed my time with it. It handled exploration a great deal better than most MMOs and despite a lot of RPG features being missing due to it being a MMO, it felt like elder scrolls. 

I only got to level 10 or so in beta, does the game go downward from this point or would I enjoy the rest of the game if I enjoy the first 10 levels or so? The only thing that really bothered me was the terrible instancing.  I'm giving this game a try. Don't care what I heard about it. I just know there will be many people like me that will be new when the subs drop and the world will not feel empty and thats what I like in a MMO. i just hope they don't stop and just pump everything in to it and add more and more expansions, it's been like 4 years and skyrim is still a awesome game , there is a reason why it's still one of the most played games on steam
http://store.steampowered.com/stats/ So it went from box price+mandatory sub to box price+optional sub+cash shop+DLCs. Doesn't sound much better to be honest. Eh, it'll let me zerg around in the PVP areas for free, which is the only thing really attracting me to the game. So we'll see. Will they ever learn....

*Subscription MMOs are dead* was decried.... and several times proven.

Of course Wow being back to 10m will probably see the approval of 7-8 new WOW killer MMOs because, Gosh think if we could get just 1% of that market. We will see in 3-5 years. There is a gamblers fallacy somewhere here. Final Fantasy 14 is doing pretty well for itself, too.  Though in large part you're correct. FFXIV: ARR is definitely the exception. Yoshi-P must be a wizard to be able to turn that game around. You really just need to spend your money wisely. Instead of 2 factions that need seperate quests and all that junk, make it 1 faction, and use your money to pump out content.

They spent 200 million dollars on SWTOR, not even including marketing.

If they spent that money on feeding their sub base content and grow, polish the game during the rough few months, and get a repor with them, they'd be in a much better place.

That's pretty much all you need in an MMO I think, time to polish the game. It's not an exception. FFXI is doing just fine as subscription model, as is EVE Online. Ah, I meant new games.  I haven't heard about that game for a while, didn't it suck absolute ass at launch? Is it decent now? It's the 2nd most subscribed MMO on the market right now behind WoW. I personally consider it better than WoW as well. It is at least the second best MMO out right now, and I would consider it better than WoW. Yeah, it sucked at launch. They took around a year and put out "a realm reborn" which was the 2.0 patch. I've been playing MMO's since 1999 and I've been playing WoW since 2008. I've played about 80% of the MMOs on the market at some point (not as many the last few years though) and I can safely say that FF14 is amazing. It's got some really solid PVE content, the world is great and the people are super friendly. Probably one of the most friendly MMO communities out there. The only reason I didn't really get super into it was mainly because I have such a large amount of time invested into my wow account already. I have more history with my wow characters so I am attached to them more. Plus at the time I didn't know anyone else playing (now my lady plays &gt;:( ). Plus the 2 second GCD can feel really clunky coming from wow so it takes a bit of getting used to. Right now though if you want to play a theme park MMO and have it not be WoW, FF14 is really the best (and honestly only) option. I never played it but I read that it was completely broken. I have played the relaunch. It's very good.  FFXIV is a pretty solid game and I am quite happy for them that the model is working well. Though the overhaul and the frequency of content release seems to be very worth the sub fee for those playing. 

Certainly it seems to be the exception though. Edit: though if that's due to be an well-designed game that holds players interest, while others are not... I dunno. &gt; Edit: though if that's due to be an well-designed game that holds players interest, while others are not... I dunno.

This is the key. There are plenty of people willing to pay for an MMO every month, if the content is worth it.  Yeah, I don't have an exhaustive list of all the other ones that couldn't sustain the model, but they mostly seemed to have one or more flaws that FFXIV either does not, or doesn't seriously, like overly punishing endgame (Wildstar) no endgame (SWTOR) and so on. 

I am not sure what drove Rift F2P and whether ESO is just sort of overall not that good (I mean, I realize there are many issues, but I don't know if there was a single glaring one).  FFXIV is doing well after ARR came out. the original release of FFXIV was ABYSMAL  EVE is fine as well, 15 p/mo with PLEX being 20 p/unit. (PLEX can be used for 30 days game time, and traded inside the game)

Game is still growing, companies just need to stop doing wow clones, because you end up competing with a Goliath while offering a lackluster experience.

If companies want a sub based mmo they need to offer something completely different than wow. I'm always amazed that FFXIV is doing so well. Is it just because it's final fantasy and has a loyal fan base? I mean, it wasn't bad by any means, but I found it really boring. I leveled my white mage to level 50, and I literally just used the same two attacks the entire leveling process. Then having to go back and level up another class just for that one ability. Also, if I remember correctly, to level the other class, don't you just run from rift/invasion (whatever they're called) and spam abilities to get as many kills as possible?

I just don't get why people think it's so fun. The thing that surprises me the most is how none of these contenders for the throne of MMO-King tries to lower the price of subscription - It's always $15. Final Fantasy XIV has different subscription plans that can bring the cost down to about 13 dollars a month. The more game time you buy at once, the cheaper the cost. And doing month by month, you can go for less characters per world for a lower price. But I guess it's all still around the area of 15 dollars a month.  Doesn't FF XIV have a system that allows you to play any job, without creating a new character? Because I play a mage and was able to change to archer as well. Can you do that with any job? Yes. You only have to unlock the armory system at level 10 (like 2 hours in) then just go to the corresponding guild to unlock the class. After that it's just changing your weapon. Doing this is even needed because some abilities can be used on multiple classes to make them better.  So is there any point creating more than 1 character? Not really, no. Maybe if you are a really hardcore raider and want to run the content for full rewards twice a week. I've been playing since early access and have never felt the need to make another character.  I can't imagine going through the main questline again on another character. Nope. Just like in FF11. And that is the thing I LOVE about both FF games. One character to level up, one character to grind crafting skills and dungeons on. One character to get to know people with.

I hate having 20 alts in WoW or other games. If you are a hardcore player there is. Part of the gearing system is tied tokens, you can only get a capped amount each week and they are shared between classes. So if you want to reach the highest tier gear for multiple roles like range dps, melee dps, tank and healing without waiting months, it requires several characters. I think it's pretty common among these $15-MMOs to have slightly reduced prices if you buy 3 or 6 month subscriptions.

Fewer characters for a lowered price is interesting though - What is the price for 1 character instead of 10? It's been a while since I subbed, but I believe it was 1 character slot for $12.99 and 8/10/whatever the max is for $14.99. 

One character in FFXIV isn't as limiting as it sounds though. Your character can be any class at all and switch between them as easily as changing your weapon. You can have every battle and crafting class all maxed on a single character if you want and change between them at any point.  12.99, the really awesome thing about FFXIV is that 1 character can master all the classes/jobs. So you never really have a need for alts. Naw like you can only pay 12.99 a month with FFXIV. Its because you can only have 1 character on each server. Unlike 14.99 which allows you to have 8 characters on all servers.

Plus back in the day, the devs actually awarded older players of FFXIV 1.0 and gave them $10.00 a month. If you buy 30 days of time you can pay either 15 dollars to have characters on 40 worlds with 8 per world or 13 dollars to have characters on 8 worlds with 1 per. Only a couple bucks of difference, but since one character can be every class/job there's no need for more than one character per world and it can save you a fair amount if you play for a while.   actually, pretty much all MMO's give a discount for buying longer terms.   Why do you think Runescape is still alive. It's hard to justify 15, but you could lock in at 5$ back in the day, and you wouldn't have to pay the extra 2$ for its current price. Additionally they sell it at slightly cheaper if you buy it monthes at a time, which brings 6 monthes down to 6$ a month. Yeah, but Runescape's MTX model is completely fucked. With a new CEO incoming, who is undoubtedly the choice of IVP, there's no hope in hell it'll become any less P2W, let alone remain how terrible it is now.
 Blizzard could, easily. People are willing to pay $30 for mounts in WoW -_- People are willing to spend way more than $30 for a mount in WoW, look up the trading card loot prices.

Same with cosmetics in TF2 and CS:GO. I was just thinking that reading through this thread...it's like $15/mo is set in stone or something.  There are some games I'd gladly play for maybe $5-$8 a month, but not $15.   I completely agree. 

I've played World of Warcraft on-and-off since beta and it still remains my favorite out of every one I've tried. By setting their price at $15, I can't help but compare the enjoyment I get from these new MMO's to WoW. 

Another thing is that World of Warcraft is tried-and-true by now and offers a really solid product and so much content. New MMO's have to compete against this if they want $15 a month, but they can't as they are just starting out and they will obviously have less content to offer.  Something similar to how power companies work would be awesome. Yeah, you could buy a new game every month Take a page out of Jagex' book- $7/mo. Think that'd actually be better though? It's still a sub, even if it is (slightly) less than 1 hour's work at min. wage sub mmos are not dead it is just the fact that there are only around 15 milion people willing to pay for a sub inorder to play a game and when WoW has the majority of players and then FF14 sucking up the rest there is not much left for the rest of mmos. I think GW2 had a real solid chance at competing with WoW for active players.  Unfortunately, the chance they took on eliminating class roles, healers, and the gear grind pretty much did them in.

The lack of polished and balanced end game content is really what keeps me from returning.  While hats might be good for some people, I think the vast majority of players that reach max level in GW2 were just bored once they got there. Funny, I remember a pretty similar comment about SWG, that SEO could only canabalize on itself, that the existing Everquest (1) marketshare was the entire market and that any new game would have to draw players away from EQ.

And then wow added 10 million players from nowhere.

 It's not that sub based MMO's are terrible, it's the fact most MMO's aren't worth the sub. Mind you, this game had a lot of terrible problems upon release and the game economy was all but wrecked on some servers due to duplication glitches running rampant.

Subscription models work, it's the fact the developers don't make it worth the subscription. WoW can run a subscription because they can deliver on content and for the most part give you a very solid, coherent game experience. FF14, though I have not played it, looks like it is doing fine as well. Subscription model isn't dead, it's just much more difficult to pull off successfully than the F2P model. Subscription MMOs can (and do) work if they can prove to their audience that they are worth the money.  By the same token, management needs to ensure that a game's development is properly scaled to account for the size of that audience.

If an MMO fails to do either of those things, it is pretty much destined to convert to buy-to-play, or free-to-play.   &gt; Subscription MMOs are dead was decried.... and several times proven.

That's not really true though.

FFXIV has done wonderfully under a subscription model and continues to do wonderfully after more than a year now.  

Subscription MMOs aren't dead.  MMOs just tend to suck.  Most of them were clearly rushed, with the poster child probably being Age of Conan.  Others are just systematically flawed, failing to learn from mistakes of the past, like ESO or maybe more famously, SWTOR (Which has since gotten better).  Other's were named Wildstar and were made by arrogant devs which are totally convinced that Molten Core was the best raiding we've ever had.

Subscription MMOs can certainly exist, but step one to building a subscription MMO is to actually complete your game before asking $15 a month a $40 price on the box.
 I paid $60 for Wildstar...I still really regret that purchase. Man, I had been in closed beta for Wildstar since very early on. I tried telling so many people that they were going to be let down, but I was constantly called a troll. I feel a little vindicated that now everyone can see what a mess the game is. Their promo game was on point, though, because they did a good job of making the game seem fun before release. I wish I had heard from you before I bought it.  

And you're right about the promos; those videos were the reason I bought the game.  I haven't bought a game sight-unseen since, so hopefully I've learned my lesson. I too got into a beta weekend for Wildstar, and I just died inside a little bit. Their combat was so amazingly fantastic, and everything else about their game was so utterly boring. I genuinely liked the combat in the game, but fuck the Medal system for Adventures / Dungeons was **awful**, there were so many bugs... Just so many small or medium sized complaints with the game that ultimately piled up to be too much to make me want to play the game. The thing about Wildstar for me was one of comparison.  And I think that's actually a big problem with MMOs right now.

For example.  If Wildstar was the only MMO out there, it would be VERY popular.  It's not as if it's a bad game.  Sure, it's not perfect; there are definite things to improve.  But overall, not a bad game.

My problem was, Wildstar didn't bring enough new to the table for me to want to stick with it.  I can play WoW, which I've been playing on and off for ten years, have an established character, gear, etc.  Or I can spend my time with this new MMO.  For me to leave what I've already worked for and got, the new game has to be something special, and Wildstar just wasn't enough of that for me. Thats the problem with almost ever new MMO these days, they are just WoW copies with different graphics. If I wanted to play a game like WoW, I'd just play WoW. 

It sure is risky to try something new and off the beaten path, but nothing is going to overtake WoW by trying to be more like WoW.

 Luckily Ive stayed out of that regret boat.. fow now. Ive bought, played, and quit a handful of MMOs but at least I feel that I got my moneys worth back out of them like in Rift or GW2. The only one I havent played that I own is FF14, but I got it on sale and still plan on trying it out so no regets yet God, Age of Conan was amazing...for the first 20-30 levels.  I know they ran out of money so they had to release what they had.  But man, it had so much potential. Yeah, it was such a let down once you got close to max levels. I really enjoyed that game. Woah, don't forget FF14 had to re-release itself because it was so terrible initially. Yeah, but FFXIV 1.0 and FFXIV 2.0 might as well be completely different games, that's how much they differ. Oh absolutely!  It's probably one of the most miraculous things to ever happen in gaming.

A game was so bad, that the in-game lore tells a story of the world being literally destroyed while a new game was being built, and from the ashes from the old, awful game arose a new, great game.  It's absolutely unbelievable and if you told me that it was going to happen before it actually did, there is not a single chance in the world that I'd believe you.

---

Point though is that a game released in 2013 as a subscription MMO is currently very successful in the western world. And the fact that it's doing great after the re-release shows that subs were never the problem.  Yeah man. If its fun, people will play even if it costs them. As long as the price isnt outrageous  Possibly. With subs, consumers are clearly going to expect a much better product which can work both for and against the developer. It shows that a subscription model can work but that doesn't mean it's a viable/current model.  That's not really a mark against the current dev team though. There's a different guy in charge and they let people play--while supporting the original version--for ages before they actually made a storyline conclusion for the original and then started Realm Reborn. 

But boy it needed that overhaul.  Eso has actually done pretty well since the bad launch,The game of today and soon with 1.6 will make the game much more better then launch,It it were not for the console release i doubt they would go b2p &gt; Other's were named Wildstar and were made by arrogant devs which are totally convinced that Molten Core was the best raiding we've ever had.

This part can't be stressed enough. One of my gilded comments is talking about how this mindset was not indicative of what people running 40 mans was doing, and saw Molten Core as THE BENCHMARK, and then proceeded to bastardize and twist this vision.

Hell, I was talking about this with one of my old WoW *friends not even a few hours ago. Purely by coincidence. [deleted] I couldn't hear you over the sound of Final Fantasy XIV Nice work picking the one exception to the rule.

- ArcheAge
- Wildstar
- Rift
- SWTOR
- TERA
- Star Trek Online
- Age of Conan
- Warhammer Online
- Dozens of failed games you've never heard of

all say hello!

 Don't get me started on Vanguard: Saga of Heroes. That game had so much god damn promise. Such a beautiful world, great diversity in classes and races, non instanced overworld dungeons. But they had to screw the pooch with some of the worst class balance issues I've ever seen in a MMO and with the push to feel "oldschool" they made the game way too hardcore, tedious and grindy thus pushing away a huge amount of the day one people within a couple months. That game had such great bones, such a good pedigree. Seriously. And the potential of that crafting system that was just crapped away.  I went back on free weekends to finish my boat and was just appalled at the fact that you could grind out the hundred or so planks you needed but didn't xp for them.  You only leveled through the work orders. The game died in development, and it was only thanks to Sony's attempt to profit on buying it out that we ever saw it.


It could have been great, it was better than many others in its broken unfinished state, but it never got there. &gt;Vanguard: Saga of Heroes

Every this game comes up it opens old wounds. Which of those games failed due to the subscription model, rather than being a mediocre game? Some of those are doing ok on a B2P/F2P system sure, but people also poured their money into Candy Crush. I kinda miss Warhammer Online, and wish it had grown into the game it was supposed to be.  So much promise. The PVP in that game, at least before endgame, was still some of the best I've experience. Being a tank and being able to actually stand at the top of a staircase and hold back an entire team was such a great feeling. Keep sieges were the single most fun experience I've had in years of MMOs.  Just running around questing, then you see a warband ride past so you mount up and ride with them to the massive battles.  Just brilliant. the main designer of that PVP experience works on ESO now  Doesn't surprise me. The videos I saw of the massive PVP battles in ESO looked incredible. Unfortunately everything else was so negative.. Ok I'm going to buy in because of this alone. Warhammer Online was, for me, a blast in pvp. I loved the flavor of the starter zones.  Fantastic.  Miss green skins. Did ArcheAge require a subscription? I thought it was F2P from the start.

Edit: As for Wildstar that seemed less the subscription's fault and the fact the game isn't *worth* the subscription for people. Realm Reborn seems to survive because people actually enjoy the game to the point they are willing to pay for it. This is true for all the subscription games. I was so hyped for ArcheAge, then I found out how abysmally grindy it was and was really turned off playing it or even trying it Tbh , the case of Wildstar and the  case of TESO were similar. Both were hyped , both were subscription based , both were not worth the subscription. u need the sub to get anywhere in the game right now. even with sub, inflation is out of control.  &gt;Nice work picking the one exception to the rule.

That's kind of what WoW was in the first place. Until WoW, MMOs had smaller budgets and lower expectations than they do today. It wasn't until one of the biggest developers started dropping huge amounts of money and pulling all the stops that WoW was born. And nobody has a development cycle as focused on product quality as Blizzard did back then (except maybe Valve).  Yeah the fact is nobody is going to compete in the subscription-based MMO space until WoW leaves that space, which based on what Blizzard has said won't be any time in the next 5-10 years.

The most important thing to MMOs is polish and content, and it's simply impossible to compete against 10+ years of content and polish. The amount of creature comforts Blizz has built in over time is simply too great for any new game to match. Damn, I swore Age of Conan was going to rock the house. I really liked the game but I think they had too many servers. Once you got to the higher levels all the quests were for a party but the servers were so empty. People will pay a sub for a good game with regular updates.  You need to give them a reason to log in.  F2P works great if you don't plan to update more than every year or so.


Subs aren't dead, but people have a lot less patience for slow development if they are subbed.   FFXIV is a case study every other company needs to study. That game merely survives off of brand recognition (not to say that it's bad). If it were anything but Final Fantasy, it would be DOA. So what's your explanation for Star Wars then? That game had such an unbelievably bloated budget it's not even funny, and the game actually did pretty well for the first few months, but Bioware was really slow at releasing substantial new content and most of its subscribers got bored or disinterested in it and left. So I'm biased as a FF14 subscriber, but I don't think people realize how much content comes out on a quarterly basis.

They released a new class (job) in a patch.  I have never heard of any MMO doing this before.  An entirely new class to play in a regular scheduled content patch.  No expansion, just a patch.  

With FF14, you feel like the sub is completely warranted. Like I said, it's not bad, in fact it's pretty damn good for a post-WoW MMO, it just wouldn't survive without the Final Fantasy name because MMO's are starting to go back to being a niche genre. The WoW craze has mostly worn-off and ambitious MMO's just come and go whether they're good or not because they just can't make enough money to sustain them for very long.

Just think for a moment how many multiplayer games exist now. Some shall stand, and the rest shall fall. The name helps, but it's the gameplay that keeps people subbing and joining.  

Shit FF14 1.0 was released with the FF name and was a COMPLETE flop, that proves name recognition does not equal success.  Look at SWTOR for another example. Maybe. But I have never enjoyed a Final Fantasy game and I find Realm Reborn to be a fantastic game. Learn what? So many people are acting as if this is a decision that has come out of left field or is some kind of band-aid for the game. I'd bet you good money that internally this was on the roadmap from the beginning.

The questions is: When will *players* learn that this is the new financial model for AAA MMOs? You start of as a subscription service, getting the $15 fees and the selling the limited edition box sets. Then down the line, when that steam cools off, you switch over to a F2P model and engage everyone else. 

Subscription fees aren't dead. They've just become one stage in the lifespan of an MMO.
 Up vote because you make a seemingly valid point, however some of these games are launching with a "Lifetime Subscription" option that is usually ~$200 (The Secret World is one of these). This indicates that they have belief their game has staying power. I don't think it's necessarily a roadmap to this outcome, but it is a possible path that most consider due to the over-saturated marketplace and trends. Whenever entering a market you look at what your competitors are doing, and while they see others going B2P/F2P, they also see others (albeit a few) that have subs and are doing quite admirably.

I think most realize they'll never be a WoW, as its success was largely due to a number of factors landing them in a Goldilocks zone of sorts that almost assured success (well-known existing IP, lack of market saturation, launched during the height of the pre-housing bubble burst era meaning more people were inclined to sub), but most also don't think they'll fail, because that would be a bad mindset to have about your own product. Everyone NEEDS to believe and market like their product is the best and brightest, that's just business. Almost no one would admit out the gates "Yeah, we don't know if this is gonna do too hot, so we may go F2P/B2P in a year or so.: Maybe some day they'll learn that there's no such thing as a "WoW killer". Your random company is not going to make a better version of WoW than Blizzard.

And maybe some day we'll all stop fighting and do the Star Trek thing. &gt; Maybe some day they'll learn that there's no such thing as a "WoW killer". Your random company is not going to make a better version of WoW than Blizzard.

Even Blizzard realized they couldn't create a WoW killer, hence the cancellation of Titan and the refocusing of their attention on improving and strengthening WoW.

I'm pretty sure we'll still be seeing WoW with several million subscribers/players 10 years from now.  The game won't look like it does now, won't likely play like it does now, but it's still going to be there.  For many people, MMO isn't an acronym they know, but yet they could probably tell you Leeroy's last name.

Edit: Titan not Titanfall You mean "Titan" dont you? Titanfall is a released game o.o .


 Yeps...woops! Just like there will never be such thing as a "Halo Killer". You can't fight the behemoth. The best bet is letting them collapse under their own weight. If they don't... well, you're fucked. Your best bet is to do something different. Creativity works, but investors hate it. [deleted] As a very new ESO player (bought it on Black Friday for $15, but didn't start it until this past weekend), I am hoping the fact that ESO will still have an up-front cost will keep a lot of that shit out. I totally agree with you though. As soon as a game goes F2P, I'm out. A subscription keeps the riffraff out of the community. The only people who are playing are the ones who actually WANT to play.

If it gets bad, I'll go back to FF14. I loved the game, but my gf, who was playing dedicated healer since Day 1 was getting furious over the forced solo boss battles, which she struggled with due to her pure healer spec.  Me too. I ain't gonna play non-sub MMO. More often than not, F2P builds content around microtransactions or money sinks. It tends to deliver subpar content and lore. The devs will keep some or most of their attention to the cash shop. I don't think it's that simple. The problem lies deeper, I'd say it all comes down to how unimaginative MMORPGs have been for the last decade or so. ESO isn't really offering anything new, so until now there have been better alternatives available for free. Most people have had absolutely no reason to pay so much for ESO when they could have the same experience without having to purchase the game and pay a monthly subscription fee.

If we ever see a MMORPG that doesn't copy most of its mechanics from EQ/WoW etc, I think people would still be willing to pay for it. EVE is a good example, I'd argue it's the only (popular) actual sandbox MMORPG out there right now, and it has a very dedicated and loyal fanbase happily paying $/15 a month.  
Every year we have a new "WoW killer" coming out, and every year it turns out to be the same old thing with one or two new tricks. Until that changes, you're probably right. There is also this "tiny" thing. To eat a game, you have to do what he does better, even to take a bit of its audience : habit and a large player base are playing against you. 


A lot of "WOW like" subscription MMO are much worst, not better, than WOW.  I think being a WoW-killer is an asinine goal. Each game should just take its preferred model (theme park, open world, whatever) and just *do that well*, and court the niche of gamers that want to play in that manner by just making a good product.

FFXIV is a game that has a lot of similarities to WoW in the questing and hotbar combat and so on, but it's very nice to look at, polished, with attentive devs, ongoing content addition, and shit to do all the time. So if someone wants a theme park MMO to play in, but not WoW, it's a very nice potential alternative. for me it wasn't the subscription aspect, it was the game it's just bored me to death , for some reason i can go in skyrim and waste tons of hours but going in to the mmo didn't feel anything alike . They had a huge following so they could have pulled it off if the game was good. That along with the all the moba games trying to take from LoL and Dota2's territory. 

Once there is a king of a genre bubble, it's usually too late to start developing for it.  I think we're just looking at a new model, the "Launch with a subscription and milk it for as long as you can then drop it" model. &gt; There is a gamblers fallacy somewhere here.

I agree. This happens with games that aren't even MMOs. No way. Bad games die out (F2P when they were planned to be subscription). ESO, SWTOR, etc. Bad games are bad. &gt; Subscription MMOs are dead was decried.... and several times proven.
&gt; 

No, it has not been proven. What's been proven is that a lot of people have tried to cash in on mediocre to bad MMOs with terrible ideas.

Wildstar's idea was "let's make a game that requires a huge population, but cater to a miniscule population." SWToR's plan was "let's half-ass the endgame because that'll keep people playing." These are dumb ideas. subscription models are fine. Wow still does great, as does final fantasy. The problem that most MMOs that go subscription have is that most new MMOs flop after a month for one reason or another. GW2 had a HUGE population crash after its intial release that that never had a sub. Wildstar caved because it catered to hardcore and tossed aside casuals. Also disco floors was fugly. Old republic was a bland overbudgeted star wars reskin that just wasn't the kotor 3 fans wanted. ESO isn't even worth playing if it was free.

If subscription models were dead then we wouldnt have wow, or netflix, or magazines. If your game is worth a subscription, people will pay it. If its worth the sub price people will pay, All these games going free to play aren't worth it. People keep paying for WoW because its a bug free, Feature complete game that is constantly updated with good content. How many mmos have been released under EA? I don't remember off the top of my head but isn't swtor and ESO both under EA?  I don't think the subscription model is anywhere near dead, but I do think that publishers and developers are missing the point of the model in the first place. If we look at the most successful subscription-based MMOs, the most consistent throughline between them is that they manage to constantly update their games with new content. WoW has lagged behind in this as of late really because they can get away with it, I happen to find it pretty sad that they are getting so embarassingly outpaced by FFXIV and even FFXI when they have such a gigantic dev team and a budget to match. I digress, the point is all these failed subscription MMOs expect the monthly payments but lack the follow-up to earn the money in the first place. Wildstar didn't do ANYTHING with the money they were earning besides flail about throwing hodgepodge patches and hotfixes out, breaking shit left and right and not even getting to the point of adding content. The star wars mmo also released new content at a snail's pace, barely seemed involved. ESO - well I didn't even care enough to follow development, but something tells me they haven't really added much in the way of content.

MMO development is never over. Release day is merely when they start getting paid for their work, hardly when they stop doing it. That is the largest folly of MMO releases in today's market IMO - the severe lack of post-release support and expansion to justify the purchasing.  They can DMCA mods for their game but they won't be able to stop you editing the game files themselves so that you can disable the Film Grain effect on your own, instructions:

Fix Edit varlist_noise.scr

Go to Steam/SteamApps/Common/Dying Light/DW.

Extract Data0.pak to Documents\DyingLight\out.

Open the 'out' folder. You will see additional folders of data/logs/settings.

Go to Data/Scripts and open varlist_noise.scr with a text editor such as notepad.

Change VarFloat("f_noise", 0.15) from 0.15 to 0.00 and save.

No need to repack, film grain is now disabled.

Launch the game.

Source: http://pcgamingwiki.com/wiki/Dying_Light#Disable_Film_Grain If someone made a script file that did this it shouldn't be vulnerable to a copyright claim,  in a similar manner to how the decss perl script was printed on tshirts It would be a reverse engineering claim, wouldn't it? Regardless, this is a configuration file and I very seriously doubt those were legit takedowns under DMCA. Reverse Engineering would be under the DMCA in section 1201, which only applies to reverse engineering with the purpose of circumvention of "technological protection measures" that "effectively control access"   Unrarring a pak file and text editing a script file would not really qualify as that, and even if you had source that did that without being compiled, it's just source.  

Even if they did have muster over that activity in the DMCA, the DMCA provides an exception for making an interoperable program, which I fail to see how a modification wouldn't be an interoperable prpogram.

Really, the only things that techland can stand on are that you are making infringing copies of the pak file contents to an unauthorized location on your hard drive and an unauthorized location in RAM while you are unpacking the file, and that you are likely in violation of their EULA by doing this; I don't think the DMCA could apply here. &gt; Really, the only things that techland can stand on are that you are making infringing copies of the pak file contents to an unauthorized location on your hard drive and an unauthorized location in RAM while you are unpacking the file, and that you are likely in violation of their EULA by doing this; I don't think the DMCA could apply here.

I don't think it would apply here, either. No matter what they think they're doing I have a feeling they're just grasping at straws.

Who would want to force film grain on people anyway? Film grain makes me immediately lose interest in fucking anything. Just about any filter does. Wait wait wait.

As I understand it, filing an illegitimate DMCA is actually a big deal... It's called abusing the law. Is someone going to call their bluff on this?

http://targetlaw.com/consequences-of-filing-a-false-dmca-takedown-request &gt; filing an illegitimate DMCA is actually a big deal.

There's only 2 things that you can do in a DMCA that are illegal in any way:

* Lying about who you are
* Intentionally and maliciously filing DMCAs that you know are false.

It's basically impossible to prove somebody intentionally filed a false DMCA report.  They can just walk into court and say, "to the best of my knowledge it was a legitimate request", and there's nothing you can do to prove that they actually knew it was not a legitimate request. If only the courts could define 'the best of their ability' based on the legal resources available to that party and the clarity of the law in question. Unfortunately this would likely be abused to fuck people over. &gt; there's nothing you can do to prove that they actually knew it was not a legitimate request.

Not necessarily, you can request their emails in Discovery and most likely you'll find some inter-office e-mail about it that indicates knowledge it's not legit but they just don't like it. The decss scripts were, as far as I know, never subject to action under the DMCA under the claim that they contained copyrighted material themselves. The problem with decss is that it is subject to the non-circumvention provision of the DMCA (17 U.S. Code  1201(b)(2)(B)). The printing it on a t-shirt didn't do anything to negate the problem with the anti-circumvention provision of the DMCA, but it *did* (along with many other similar actions taken) shift it into a free speech issue as well.

I think the DMCA is inherently anti-free speech, and decss is a primary example of why. Code shouldn't be illegal just because it bypasses someone's shitty attempt at DRM. [deleted] It has been patched... The game detect this as a corruption and wont lunch the game.  It won't launch if you repack the archive cos it changes the checksum.

Copy the file out to doc profile and it works OK.

Extract the files to:

C:\Users\Your Name\Documents\DyingLight\out\data\scripts\ and it'll work OK.
 You can change the CRC to the expected CRC, but then you won't be able to load your save. Looks like someone is already working on a tweak tool that works with the new update.


http://steamcommunity.com/app/239140/discussions/0/604941528470729562/#p1

Techland need to realize that building the wall higher only makes people make longer ladders.  And it makes them look bad. I was chomping at the bit to get this game. Now I think I'll wait and see what they do with it, since it is really starting to seem like their publisher is just stupid. I agree. How they treated review copies wasn't much better than how they are treating modding. It seems they are very controlling, and that doesn't tend to work well for software. Same here. It looked cool on steam (I don't have time for drooling over games before publication so that's where I stumbled on it) and I almost bought it but I'll spend my money elsewhere instead. 

Grim Fandango just came out, that was brilliant back in the day, please take my money!  Same here. I used to really want the game, then after reviews and gameplay on twitch came out it dropped to more of a 7/10 for me, and now that I know they're doing stuff like this (and probably going the Evolve-route with DLC) I don't know if I want this game. until they make it VAC and make it always online [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] &gt;Techland need to realize that building the wall higher only makes people make longer ladders.

Or I can avoid their little fortress of DRM entirely, as well as let all my friends know they should do the same. Think I'll do that. Yep. plenty of other zombie games incoming. and existing zombie games. plenty of which have or will allow mods. [deleted] [deleted] Bethesda have shown the industry that people who heavily mod their games will still buy worthy DLC. I'm assuming this is what the issue is here. Techland trying to stifle the 'competiton'.  I wouldn't have bought skyrims dlc of it weren't for mods. So many dlc required mods out there worth time EXACTLY

A lot of DLC out there becomes something people want to buy in order to use mods that rely on the DLC themselves. A perfect example is the home building DLC for Skyrim, which was further upgraded by modders adding tonnes of new features to the game.

Clever developers can recognise types of DLC that are worth adding to your game to take advantage of the modding community and the types of mods that they will build on top of your DLC.

What the industry needs to do is take notice of trends in modding communities and build DLCs that will encourage behaviours that lead to greater sales. NOT stifle the modding community altogether and ultimately limit the sales of not only your DLC but the game itself through bad PR.

This is a fundamental problem with the thinking that occurs in many businesses. Many staff members in companies end up hating the communities that are built up around their company because of the blunt and honest criticism that gets posted within them. Those staff members are humans and they get personally upset at the criticism of their work. It's actually a very understandable reaction, particularly when you take into account that those people aren't seasoned online forum warriors who are used to the atmosphere and bluntness of online communities - they see them as highly negative places and brand them as toxic. I've worked in companies where this occurs, and where the community itself suffers as a direct result of the workplace politics that revolves around this issue.

As a result of this rift that occurs between staff attitudes and the community you get internal creative thinking that goes out of its way to focus on money making ideas that will either harm the community or ignore them as much as possible. The end result is one that harms the company, the game, the community, and the staff attitude towards the community gets even worse as a result of the negativity towards what they're doing.

It is entirely understandable for companies to see their products as their artistic creations. BUT, after the gold release of a product they need to set aside artistic ideas and accept that the artistic control is now no longer theirs. Once a product releases thinking needs to shift from company control to collaborative improvement, where a company and the community work together to build upon this. The correct internal thinking of companies is to put power in the hands of the community by giving them the tools they need to take power themselves and grow, not only the community, but the game itself. This comes from encouraging your community, not from stifling it.

It all starts with internal attitudes and rifts that come from people that don't use online communities and become very personally upset at the criticism of their work. Not to mention that the mod community is the reason people still buy the game when then come to pc. I bought the game on ps3, then twice on pc. (the complete edition was cheaper than the dlc.) 

Given a good mod community, the game will last much longer, and give people a reason to buy if they switch.  Or look at Talewords and their games.

They are fully moddable but people still buy DLC. That's funny because their announced DLC is completely lacking, it's just 2 new missions, some costumes, and a survival mode They've released their first good game in ages and already ensured many people won't be buying from them again. This is going to be a PR nightmare. This will pretty much guarantee a move to the pirated (moddable) 1.2 version.   

A hearty congratulations to the suits at Techland thinking this won't encourage piracy. And multiplayer stuff works perfectly fine on pirated version so they don't have any cards in their hand. Wow really? How does it work? I thought you needed steam or something to play online As far as i'm aware you just have to install fix and you can play either through cracked steam or through Tunngle or similar. Usually yes, but they added a LAN option so you can just go for Tunngle with no special fix. 

^^Please ^^devs ^^don't ^^let ^^this ^^stop ^^you ^^from ^^adding ^^LAN, ^^pirates ^^would ^^make ^^it ^^work ^^anyway, ^^you ^^just ^^hurt ^^your ^^product ^^and ^^the ^^consumer. DRM only ever hurts the legit customers. It barely affects pirates. Barely meaning not at all/a minor inconvenience because no matter what a company does, someone will find a workaround. To be fair,if it holds for the first week,the DRM did its job well enough,because for some stupid reason people keep buying AAA games on release,expecting them to have stable releases. Do you think its the devs who make the choice? That is someone in manglemant for sure. [deleted] Wow I guess they messed up pretty bad... Moral of the story? Don't be a dick. Not really as far as the online goes. The vast majority of pirated games can be played on illegitimate servers, the only ones that cant are the ones that rely on server-side interaction that cannot be spoofed, which basically boils down to mmo's and the like. I don't know any non-exclusive games released on consoles that can't be pirated and played online MMO's can be pirated, plenty of decent sized private WoW servers. Though it is quite difficult and takes a long time to get most the bugs worked out. [deleted] [deleted] It just reduced their sale numbers by at least one, and I won't be talking about this game at all outside of this thread. I'm sure I'm far from the only one. Yeah. I was only planning to get it on console anyway but, as a show solidarity with my fellow gamers, these guys can jam their game right back down their slimy dickholes Yup, same here. Just removed it from my wishlist. Too bad, I enjoyed Dead Island enough to actually give this a try.  I won't even bother to pirate.  There's so many games available last years,  devs acting like this make the choice easier.  Yeah, I don't know whats up with the developers - They produce a decent game and then try to ruin it with all means possible.

In Germany there is a region lock, i.e. you can't even activate keys from countries where the game is uncut, unless you use a VPN. (which, while somewhat unenforced, is against Steams SSA and puts your account at risk)

There is not a single reason to do this to your players - It is perfectly legal to buy, play and own games in Germany that are placed on the index as long is you're 18 years or older. It's advertising and publicly selling them which is illegal here.

So yeah having to buy a global key from outside of Steam, setting up a VPN and risking your Steam account or pirating a free version without DRM - What a great fucking choice.

 It's possible, perhaps probable, that the people who make all these decisions(in many games) are business people who have little to do with making the game. The real devs are likely often forced to do a lot of anti-consumer crap and go along with it publicly. You're absolutely right - I used the wrong word (language barrier...). When I said 'developer' I meant whoever is in charge of these things for Dying Light. That would probably be the publisher, which would be Warner Brothers in this case. What's really bizarre about this, is there was a meeting about this. Some Lone Ranger didn't just wake up one day and decide to do this.  They all sat down and put their minds together and thought this was the best move. I just want to know how that conversation went. I want to know how it came up. I want to know if these people learned about the modding and decided to act or previously decided they wouldn't allow modding. I hope one day someone can give us a non PR speak rationale for it. For any game really not just Dying Light. This probably ain't a move on behalf of the developers.  Totally agree...fucking region locked and censored bullshit. It's like we're kids that constantly need to be watched not to hurt themselves with graphic material... I like Germany but I really don't like the editing and what feels like censorship of content. Thats because the older generation that make up these suits think that games are just toys for kids like in the nes days. I was under the impression that certain things were verboten in Germany. Swastikas for example.  This is why there was an alternate version of either Wolf3d or Doom (I forget, prob Wolf) that had to be sanitized before it was released there. The swastika thing, if I remember right, is fine for art. Movies and paintings can have them.

Video games are considered "children's toys" and so don't fall under the "art" category. Who ever decided that needs to get a clue.

It's kind of the same reason the highest game rating some places have is 15+. Or buying from them at all. I was planning on picking up the game when it was on a decent sale. Having serious second thoughts now. Not that I care about mods when it comes to a game like this, but it's pretty blatant anti-consumer behavior. Game wasn't on my radar at all, but since I heard it was good and I just finished the game I was previously playing I was planning on buying it after work today. They can kiss that sale goodbye.  [deleted] And it's especially strange since they did several things before release that seemed gamer friendly.  Like the reversal of the zombie mode being preorder only.  I don't see that as gamer friendly.

More like a reaction to getting burned.

Gamer friendly would be never even considering it. What's the story here? That playing as a Zombie was originally pre-order only? [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] You mean like not giving out review copies until 12 hours before the game came out unless you signed a sponsorship deal? Yeah, great things...  Are mods that big of a deal for games made by Techland? Granted, whoever issued the DMCA takedowns is dumb and this doesn't make Techland or Warner Brothers look good, but I don't think disallowing mods are going to be the thing that sinks Techland. Any outrage caused by this wouldn't even be comparable to the reaction that Bethesda would get if the next Elder Scrolls game disallowed modding.

**EDIT:** Just to be clear, I'm in favor of allowing people to create mods and alter their game to suit their preferences. I'm questioning the idea that if Techland disallowed mods for their games then the company would be in financial trouble. Dead Island had a few mods that tweaked the balance of the game. How fast stamina depletes from running/kicking/swinging, that sort of stuff. That was cool. 

There were also tweaks to deal with the horrible FOV, which luckily isn't an issue in Dying LIght.

Modding for Dying Light is not really a huge deal but if it's anything like Dead Island it would be nice to be able to tweak the game balance. Even if this means multiplayer is disabled. There's already some amazing mods for DL, like removal of Chromic Abberation, Film Grain, and other graphical improvements. 

 Wait you can't disable film grain in the game? That's completely awful, what the actual fuck. I think it's simultaneously hilarious and sad that we talk about "amazing mods" that *remove* parts of the product.

I agree though, and have no idea why so many games don't give us the options to toggle the postprocessing effects we want and don't want. Oh man, the CA is already gone? I'll have to plop that in before the new update hits, just so I can see it properly for at least a while. It was more of an issue in Dead Island since they seem to have fixed some or all of the more idiotic design choices that were in the old game in Dying Light Except weapon durability levels are still an anti-fun joke. The way i see it a game being difficult to mod is one thing. But to actively harass the modding community and to go out of your way to block single player mods is beyond scummy. They already lost my money over the preorder bullshit and this whole secondary fiasco is why they are going on my boycott list. I'm sure the average person probably doesn't care, but I do. Yep, I won't criticise a developer for not going out of their way to enable modding, but purposefully trying to stop it is boneheaded, and using DMCAs to do so even more.

Even if you throw multiplayer into the mix it doesn't work out. If you're trying to ensure everyone is using the same assets/unmodded, then enforcing a 'pure mode' and checking should be part of anti-cheat, and even games which have a pure mode/anti-cheat can let you toggle it off to allow mods at your own risk. It's not about if there are any good mods out there. It's about the potential of such mods and the message this sends to gamers. They are basically saying: Screw you, if you want to mod our game, even in SP only, then we will issue these DMCA claims, which is just ridiculous. Other companies' games just can't straight be modded, which sucks as well, but at least they're not threatening you... I'd argue mods are a big deal for any PC game. There are people still playing games like VtM: Bloodlines or Titan Quest on the back of mods. It's understandable that not all games can be made to be modifiable, but to have a game's developers purposefully trying to stop people modding a game that already is?

Honestly, I think people are far more against the mentality on display than the inability to mod a single game. Yeah, if a game just isn't moddable (or hard to mod) then that's one thing, and is honestly fine. But actively *discouraging* modding when its possible is fucking ridiculous. Who gives a shit what I do to the single-player part of a game? LITERALLY NO-ONE BUT ME. Most people don't really care if a game isn't mod friendly. There are plenty of games which aren't. Mods are nice and all and can definitely influence how successful a game in on PC, but it's not that huge of an issue when games don't have a massive mod community.

But when a game actually goes out of its way to make modding difficult, well now that just rubs everyone the wrong way. How the hell do you expect people to pay $15 for a new gun when modders can add every gun ever created by mankind? Skyrim did pretty good on DLC sales. Mods actually boost their sales
 I wanted to play the perkus maximus mod, but it required all of the dlc. I ended up buying the dragonborn dlc specifically for the mod! One thing Bethesda does is add new features quasi-under the hood in their DLC/expansions. New scripting methods, new meshes, etc. They've been doing it since Morrowind; the Tribunal expansion added a lot to the game engine.

All that encourages modders to make use of the DLC's resources, so their mods require the DLC, so players buy the DLC to use the mods. It's an interesting little ecosystem. And aside from horse armor their DLCs are usually really good. I actually woke up this morning to buy the game. Now? HA. Another game I won't spend my time with.  It's a shame.  I think their Chrome Engine is pretty nice. Except that they do not seem to have good multi-threading, which makes the game CPU-bound to the speed of one core: http://community.pcgamingwiki.com/gallery/image/1106-dyinglight-cpu-usage/
  Yeah, Call of Juarez Gunslinger was very smooth even on my old rig.  Game itself wasn't awful either. I liked it. This is crazy. I don't see why they're  doing it.

If I wanted to play devil's advocate i would say that they don't want the mods because it compromises their artistic direction in terms of gameplay and whatnot, but really?

They wouldn't have released shitty games in the past if their direction was so perfect.

On the other hand i don't think there has been a game so far that allowed mods and didn't benefit from them. I hate when measures are taken to prevent bad behaviour like hacking or piracy but it only ends up hurting the loyal customers

I once pirated a piece of software I OWN because it was less restrictive than the offical copy (Pro Tools if anyone cares)

The best thing about PC gaming isn't just the superior power and graphics but the modding community. &gt; I once pirated a piece of software I OWN because it was less restrictive than the offical copy (Pro Tools if anyone cares)

I own the first Mass Effect both in CD and on Origin and I can't launch either without a crack. I purchased a box copy of ME1. Played it for a while, and got onto the spaceship. When I tried to access the map so I could fly my spaceship somewhere, the game crashed. After some googling I found out it was a copy protection measure.

So now I just don't buy anything from Bioware. I can't believe anyone still does those shitty copy protection crashes/glitches. The only thing they ever do is ruin the experience for your actual fucking customers.

Besides, how is it even supposed to discourage piracy? The pirate who has the game crash on him isn't going to reconsider his life choices, he's just going to think the game is shit. They also give devs a bad reputation. Everyone thought Titan quest was glitchy as hell. But that was just the DRM fucking with everything. And so Iron Lore went out of business. That reminds me of when I built a home theater PC for my Mom one year. I bought a Blu-ray drive and paid for a license for some ArcSoft media player, which was bullshit but I did it anyway.

So after buying a stack of Blu-rays, about half of them ended up playing only audio and then turning the entire screen black. Once the screen turned black, there was nothing I could do to make the screen come back on short of a hard reset. I looked into it and it turns out that the black screen is a feature of the DRM built into the Blu-ray drive.

Needless to say, I ended up just torrenting the movies and never bought another Blu-ray drive again. Fucking DRM bullshit never ceases to amaze me. DRM only hurts paying customers, every time. I got a bluray drive - but it's more for data.

Honestly the only players I'd trust for blurays are things like VLC, AnyDVD HD, etc. that bypass the shit DRM because the official ones like Arcsoft suck.  I haven't had much issues on the other Bioware games I own, it seems like it's just this one that got specially shitty DRMs. Jesus - ProTools.  Right up there with AutoCAD in the "I'll make your ass regret actually buying this POS" category. I had to do with windows once.. needed to change my brother's network card.. for some crazy reason, windows deactivated it self and Microsoft tech support was useless.. i gave up and pirated it..  I know some programs that limit themselves to a single computer do so by ensuring the MAC address is the same. Every network card has a unique MAC address, so changing the network card would change the MAC address of the computer and cause that program to stop working. I wouldn't be surprised if Windows used a similar system.

That said, there are ways to spoof the MAC address on the card and make it think that it has the address of the old card. Back in the XP days, they tracked changes to your hardware. My copy got deactivated a few times while changing parts, I had to call microsoft to get them to activate me manually. 

I think after a while I just installed an activation crack so I didn't have to bother, as I was basically slowly replacing my computer part by part as I could afford upgrades. AFAIK windows is currently tied to the motherboard, so if you get a new motherboard you need a new license for windows. But you can replace every other part and it will still work. 

In addition, i believe it will still work if you replace the motherboard with one of the exact same type but that may not be true. Activation is tied to a combination of parts installed on the computer. If you change the parts one at a time (which you should be doing anyway) and boot up, it will prevent the deactivation from being tripped. If you have to replace the entire board + peripherials at once or are moving the license to another machine, you can uninstall windows before doing so. If that's not an option (your computer died or your harddrive crashed), you can call Microsoft and they will manually reset the activation.

Of course, given the clusterfuck that is Windows licensing, there are exceptions depending on the license type, the way that it was purchased, and whether or not it is an odd-numbered Tuesday in a month that has an even-number of vowels in its name or something. Check your EULA for details. It's kinda like how in grade school, the entire class got detention for what the class clown did.  &gt;bad behaviour

What the fuck does removing film grain have to do with bad behavior?

This isn't a measure to stop hacking, and piracy. A DMCA complaint against film grain is a measure against film grain.

This is akin to "stopping piracy" by banning all internet downloads. Blocking the mod to remove film grain might have just been a side effect of blocking the mods that people cheat with.

Or they might be one of those developers that think that everyone needs to see their cinematic vision. The worst thing about disabling modding is that it also removed the ability to mod several graphics things that were allowing users with AMD CPUs to play the game at a reasonable framerate. One of them essentially removed all sun lighting and shadows, which ruins the atmosphere of the game, but gives you a pretty hefty framerate boost. That particular mod isn't working anymore, which really sucks for people like me. I've got a pretty good rig that is just crippled by this one game for some reason.

I really hope they allow modding again. It's not like this is some sort of competitive game. Let people do silly shit, it's the kind of game that BREEDS fun from silly shit. Also, more importantly, let people mod your game to work on their systems. Or, better yet, improve the performance of the game to work on more systems. It's multithreading issues.
 What would be the reasoning behind this? mods make the game a lot better and increase sales without any cost to the developer. A fundamental lack of understanding of how the gaming world functions. Is it a single player only game? It has co-op and a competitive 4 vs 1 multiplayer mode. The competitive part of the multiplayer will probably die within a couple of months as it usually does then we'll be left with a coop- / singleplayer game without any mod there to improve its replayability / length. Be The Zombie is already dead in my region (South East Asia). I can no longer search for a room with invasion mode enabled anymore. Geeze, that was fast. A few days to die? I mean, it is SEA. Outside of major games you should expect it to die here. Red Orchestra 2 and Chivalry have maybe 2-3 servers max from what I usually see at peak times, same with many other games like space engineers or the likes. Just gotta deal with playing overseas. It died day 1 because of sloppy implementation, extremely aggressive matchmaking, and a lack of any balance whatsoever. It's nearly impossible for the humans to win against a competent zombie unless they're all packing guns and flares.

The matchmaking is also total shit because Techland didn't think to close a game to other zombies that are looking to join. So once a zombie joins a game, other zombies will see that game and try to join, and then it will just instantly kick them. But it won't tell them that the game is full, so people will just keep trying to join and get kicked.

And for humans that are brave enough to leave their games open to invasion (or too impatient to look through the online options,) they will get invaded almost non-stop at night. I had one player curse me out constantly because I wouldn't leave his game. He threw ever expletive at me that he could think of because he didn't know he could turn off invasions. For real, pretty obvious modding has helped Skyrim a ton on the PC.  Or Oblivion, Morrowind, Fallout 3 or Fallout NV.  Hell, Fallout 3 still has a thriving mod community. Probably all of them do - but Fallout 3 is the oldest I am actively paying attention to.

I think Bethesda learned their lesson well. What lesson? Hasn't Bethesda always been cool with modders? Lesson meaning since Morrowind all of Bethsda Softworks RPGs have been moddable and they noticed that it seems to have encouraged sales and interest between the multi-year gaps between releases. And they've made a point of making the tools available so people can do things more easily. Bethesda's mod tools are some of the most user friendly and easy to use in the industry.  About a year after Morrowind released, I was making little mods for it just for my own personal use, basically cool little bases and hideouts for my character, and I was a 14 year old with no coding experience whatsoever.   I bought Skyrim on PC after already owning it on 360 because of mods. Originally not so much, however they learned with Morrowind onwards that being mod friendly drives sales. I imagine a lot of people only bought Skyrim on PC because of the modding community, I know for sure that I did.

If they were anti-modding they'd probably kill most of their PC user interest in their franchises. Absolutely right, I have almost 100% completion in skyrim on the Xbox 360 but I bought the game again when I got a PC just so I could play with mods. For sure.  I'm playing New Vegas for the first time, modded up, it is amazing. GTA SA, a 10 year old game is still thriving with a huge modding community, let alone a Multiplayer mod called SA-MP with over 40 thousand active players.

 Imagine if this happened to Skyrim at the start, hardly anyone would be playing now Just look at mount* and blade for the gods sake !

It still lives because of moding community. Mods can also be used to cheat in multiplayer games. I think they're trying to prevent this. Still not a good way to do it. They're implementing the DRM in single player as well. From what I understand the two are deeply linked. You can play the entire game with drop in/drop out co-op. Add in that players can invade the games of others in "Be the Zombie" mode and it may be an unfortunate necessity to impact single-player as well. Tbh, I'd be very pissed if some little fuck joins my game and gives me 999999999999 money and ranks up all my skills, but I don't open my game up to Multiplayer anyway.

But fuck, I want mods. They might also be worried that it'll have an impact on DLC sales in the future. "Why pay for more content when you can download it for free?" - I can imagine this thought popping into some executive's head and making perfect sense. Hopefully they'll end up reversing this decision as the game itself looks pretty good. None of the mods add dlc like content. All they do is small things like remove film grain, make lock picking easier etc...

I don't even think you can create DLC like mods for dying light, it's not that modifiable. The engine appears to allow too many variables to be changed with ease, opening the game up for hacking in multiplayer. Maybe they can not encrypt the vital parts at this stage, maybe this is just faster to do. Whatever the technical reason, they decided to stomp on potential cheats with a very broad move. It looks like panic mode, really. I've talked to a guy working there a few years ago. Apparently there were/are some toxic and abusive managers. I doubt their kind needs "reasons". Imagine Arma 2 sales without DayZ. To be completely honest, DayZ ruined the Arma community. I would be just fine going back to before DayZ when you could join a server and play with like-minded serious people and not 12-year-olds screaming into a mic like Xbox Live. I don't even care that Arma 3 would likely not have been built as Arma 2 is still the better, more full-featured and stable product.   Purposely stopping modding is a great way for decreasing the longevity of your game. 

Honestly, I wouldn't really worry about this; Techland is not exactly good at programming if not outright incompetent so anything they put in as DRM to stop mods will probably be easily removable. It's not like they can just tell people they can't edit the game, you can't do that as long as your not adding copyrighted materials. The effectiveness of whatever they put in is irrelevant to the issue here. The fact that they're attempting to stop people from making mods is the issue and that intent definitely appears to be there.  It is something that the Battlefield community discussed a while ago. Battlefield 2 still having an active community due to Mods such as Project Reality. 

Most people see this as a way to increase the sale of their DLC packs and nothing else.  700 hours spent on Skyrim. I wouldn't even have spent 100 hours on it without mods. Heck one of the main selling points for Skyrim during sales *is* the huge modding community it has. I've spent 200+ hours on Oblivion, and not even 20 hours of it on original content, only mods. 

Many other good games, like Gothic 3 or VtMB, were a mess until release of community patches. 

Every dev who try to fight with modders, will never, ever, get my money. 
 Just look at Talewords and mount and blade.

That game is 40% mods and it still lives, has amazing community and even has a competitive scene of it's own. Man, I don't think I ever even played vanilla M&amp;B, its all mods. Extra DRM is never good because it ends up impacting the end user somewhere along the line, their protection will end up having some sort of cost at the end users expense not just the inconvenience of being unable to mod. More hoops to jump through are never good. "blocked cheating by changing game's data files"

So....by enabling the ***built in Oculus Rift*** support, I'm now cheating?

What a fucking joke. The rift support is a joke anyway.  But yes, it's fucked up. If the security in your game is fragile to the point where film-grain tweaks pose the threat of hacking, you should probably fix that before the game goes gold, rather than filing DMCA requests to retroactively create a quarantine.  Wait, this is all from a film grain tweak? Film grain is just a shitty way to make games look less bad, even though film grain is horrible to look at anyway. Film grain and Chromatic aberration is being a real pain in the ass for a lot of people cos it looks like shit and gives you a splitting headache.

As to why they've forced FG and CA on a first person view game in the first place I have no idea cos I'm fairly sure that if I started to see shit like that naturally I'd go straight to a neurologist.

Sadly you get this turd a lot cos art directors tend towards the 'not too bright' side of the scale and don't seem to understand cinematographers and photographers use CA to determine whether their glass is good. (as in, if there's CA the lens elements are out of alignment and your glass needs replaced cos it's fucked).
 I don't understand why developers make amazing graphics and then overlay them with fuzz and grain. And when people clearly prefer the alternative they fight back. What do they stand to gain ? As someone who handles DMCA tickets for a file hosting site, I find it rather laughable that they're trying this. They have no grounds to remove the files as they do not a) modify or alter the game that circumvent the games' DRM, b) the files are not the game itself (either as one file or in a split archive) and/or c) do not contain any closed source code or other copyrighted fragments of the game. This portion is generally related to someone stealing game textures and trying to make a mod from them or using physics found in one game and implementing them in another. 

It shows that those who are removing these files from the other hosting companies have no idea what a game mod is, and assume it's illegal simply from a takedown request of a company that just uses scripts to scan a website. We, those hosting these files, are allowed to reject them if they cannot fully prove the file violates copyright law. 

FYI, I'm not a lawyer, and given this is related to something legal, feel an obligation to say I'm not suggesting any legal advice to anyone. I'm just going by the policy that my site goes by.  Shooting themselves in the foot right there.

The pirate version of the game can be played online in COOP with very little set up and virtually no loss of functionality.

They have just pushed all their modding community onto the pirate version, Why bother playing the legit version if you cant play it the way you want to play it.

Basically they have just removed their own ability to sell DLC, your not going to spend money on some shitty little DLC when you can go &amp; download it for free, especially if you already have the cracked version.

(GTA4 is a pretty decent example, if you went by GFWL live it would appear the game had virtually no player base months after release, but in fact DUE TO GFWL preventing mods, all they did was push almost their entire player base onto a cracked version of the game.) DMCA is a claim that someone is distributing something you own the copyright for without permission, *on penalty of purgery*.

The DMCA against the anti film grain instructions, an entirely seperate written work by a redditor, is in no way their copywrite.

TL:DR; they just purgered themselves The DMCA is abused constantly. Nothing ever comes of it. It's perjury, and perjured. 

Purgery is something else entirely;

&gt;  the part of a sugarhouse where molasses is drained from the sugar 

http://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/purgery

Edit: But you are wrong anyway. The DCMA is also about circumventing code. By the mere fact that this mod interferes with game code to block/override a film grain effect means the owners of that program have legal redress.

It might be a shitty thing to do, but they have the backing of the law to do it. No. It's about circumventing protection code. Modifying the code in other ways is protected by fair use and discussing those changes is protected by free speech. It's funny because their last game, Dead Island, was pretty shit until the modding community fixed a lot of things that should have been fixed.

I was really going to buy this next week, but honestly, I might just skip it or pirate it now. Well, that ensures that I won't be dropping any money on this then. Which is a shame, it looked really good.  Really? I mean really?! I wanted to buy this game on PC. I never buy on release because of being stung too many times with shitty PC ports that need a month of patching to get the game up to scratch and now Techland has shown me you can release a pretty damn good pc port and still fuck it up just a few days later. 


Sigh. This is sad. I'm still playing Skyrim on a regular basis BECAUSE of the mods. I originally pirated it because I was poor but then it was so good I paid for it with my next pay cheque and brought all the DLC as it was released. 


Someone has seriously dropped the ball here in understanding what it is that PC gamers want. I just don't know. In this day and age it seems so strange that companies are still lagging behind in understanding consumers.  It's one of those cases where I guarantee it isn't the devs that did this, it's the publisher. WB is on its way to becoming Ubisoft, but Techland shouldn't be blamed for that.

WB has been pushing preorder DLC like crazy, for one. Arkham City is a big one that comes to mind, with like 10 different costumes spread across different retailers. I didn't follow Arkham Origins as closely, but I'm pretty sure they had similar preorder content. Dying Light also had Be the Zombie, an entire mode, as preorder before the delays happened.

And WB has also been ass at giving out review/preview code. Shadows of Mordor, despite being a good game, was given an initially negative reaction because WB wrote up a ridiculous contract for Youtubers that wanted to showcase it, and they also waited until the 11th hour to send out review code for this game.

Given all of that, and the fact that Techland has been fairly accepting of mods with the Dead Island series (iirc, the 5th character in Riptide was inspired by the Fist of the North Star mod for the original game), it's obvious that WB is the one pulling this shit.
 Good luck with that, trying to stop modding is like trying to stop piracy, it's impossible and it will hurt your sales.  Apparently the save system is bugged.

People are reporting that they are LOSING HOURS OF PROGRESS because the game does not actually save at checkpoints.

Between this, the poor performance on AMD systems, and Techland's mod policy, I am NOT buying this game. (No, won't bother to torrent it either.) I... Don't understand.  Mods are a good thing.  Mods attract people to games.  Mods create free marketing for years.  Mods keep people coming back, and keep people interested in more of your/that type of game.  Mods even get kids into programming.  Break the illusion that you have to be a genius or super nerd to be capable of that sort of stuff.  

I mean, look at what mods have done for minecraft and skyrim.  The only reason minecraft kept it's allure was mods.  And skyrim is constantly on the front page and various gaming forums due to new mods.  Hell, I originally bought it on the 360, only to break down buy it for the PC -- because I wanted the mods so badly.  They got 2x the business from me because mods.  

Growing up I got into computers because of mods.  Learning to install and troubleshoot them.  Learning to tweak them.  Learning to make them all by myself.  I wasted a good year of my life on simcity 3000 mods.  And if it weren't for those mods, I probably wouldn't have played simcity all that much, and definitely wouldn't have been so interested in later generations of simcity.  ...

So why are devs fighting mods so hard lately?

edit: also, haven't they learned yet that overly restrictive practices simply lead people to using pirated versions?  I feel like all they're accomplishing here is 1. decreasing sales and 2. increasing pirating.  And I imagine in the name of fighting piracy...  I just tweeted at them, for all the good it may do, don't sit there and take this bullshit. Tell them how shitty this practice is. We got the be the zombie bonus released to all players, I think this could be reversed as well 

[Twitter](https://twitter.com/TechlandGames) I hadn't even heard of this game before, and now my first impression of it is that I want to stay far away... Modding is a free, community-rewarding way of extending the game's life and playability. Devs should already have learnt to allow creative constructions to the game that doesn't negatively affect other players. To put this in perspective, even Ubisoft lets people mod their games.

There are a decent amount of Far Cry mods out there. Well, it's nice of them to make my purchasing decision for me. Guess I won't bother buying their game after all. And this game has lost all my interest. I won't even learn the genre of it now. Good job alienating your customers! Why even bother?The game isn't even a competitive multiplayer game. And that's the only way it would make sense to block mods, and even then there are some tolerable mods, like removing film grain and aberration. Funny thing. A lot of people usually cry out "Was going to buy this game but now I won't!" etc. Well, I'm kinda on the same boat, but I was only seriously considering in buying the game as it looked fun and cool. Now I feel sorry for the game developers. It's time to pre-emptively wait a week before buying any game published by Warner Bros. Ridiculous review embargos, not sending out review copies at all, attacking mods, their behavior grows more hostile to players every single game and it won't stop until first-day sales collapse. [deleted] [deleted] I would have thought that fair use would actually protect modding seeing as that modding is a derivative work. Is there something I'm missing or are all laws regarding copyrights and patents so broken that we are at the point where a complete rework of the broken system is necessary?  This isn't how you get support from players, Techland/WB. Tightening the leash on your game to prevent modding will just chase people away, and the MP aspect of the game isn't nearly good enough to warrant restricting people from cheating. Otherwise, who cares if someone cheats their way through a game. Oh good. I was trying to convince myself today that I should hold off on purchasing it, but they made the decision for me! So convenient. What people don't get for some reason, is that the equipment you have in Singeplayer will be used DIRECTLY when playing multiplayer.

So if you mod your game, the interconnectivity of the game gets messed up. Would people then be required to have the same mods as you, for you to play Coop, Be The Zombie? Or Will you be allowed to use your mods, despite the other players not having them?

While some mods are graphic enhancing, some will definitely also be impacting the combat aspect. This is where it will get troublesome.

It would probably be better for Techland to just make your game Singleplayer ONLY if they detect your files have been modded in anyway, rather than them trying to ban mods outright, as this seems to be an easy way to get crucified.  [deleted] [deleted] Looks like I won't buy this. Modding is the blood that keeps a game alive for a longer amount of time and they want to cut that off? How do they think Skyrim lasted for three fucking years? As someone who had only mild interest in this title, its things like this that will sway me from buying a game. Well done alienating your player base, guys. This is why people See pirating as a solution. 
The problem is that this game has so many unnecessary effects and so bad omptimisation that some purchasers do need to apply mods to be able to play at decent frame rates, people who have bought the game and have a better than minimum pcs. I mean blocking online mod is one thing, but nothing wrong with single player mods. In fact, the games that keep their values today are the ones that supported modding, such as crysis, such as gta iv. Proper official mod support would cancel the need for stupid drm exercises and installing illegal rootkits on user pcs.  If people will pirate a game (instead of paying for it) just because of this then that is a really weak reason at best. If people pirate it after actually buying the game though then I can understand that in this situation. It is way more common than you think. Peope buy a game only to go trough different frustrations, suchs as recursive drm chains that hit your pc performance, install illegal rootkits to hack your system to prevent any file to exist in your file system that might be of any risk to developer game files, which ends up bricking ssds and even normal hard drives. Then people go out, determined to to deal with this shit anymore as paid customers, and just pirate it. Valve had a philosophy, so much that people prefer steam versions of game that have drm free versions:The best way to fight piracy is to create a service that people need," he said. "I think (publishers with strict DRM) will sell less of their products and create more problems. Customers want to know everything is going to be there for them no matter what: Their saved games and configurations will be there. They don't want any uncertainty." This is one of the reasons peole hate origin and uplay, but love steam. And so this game finally slipped off of my buy list onto my ignore until it's ten bucks list.

Embrace your community or don't expect to have one for long. That's a really dumb reason to put DRM into a game.

Either people will pirate the game, or buy the game, then use some sort of crack to disable the DRM, then do whatever the heck they want.

It adds unneeded inconvenience to what is really a pretty good game. [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] I'd be asking for money back, and never again buy anything from Techland, rather than worry about how to continue playing what they've decided is too good for their customers. Seriously I just had one of the best coop experiences I've ever had in 20 years of playing video games and instead of embracing the growth of your game and your brand with post release modding you're going to go the DRM route?

IS ANYONE PAYING THE FUCK ATTENTION ANYMORE?  DO YOU NOT UNDERSTAND HOW THIS TREATING CUSTOMERS WELL SHIT WORKS?

It's mind boggling. Has performance been fixed yet? Or are they really gonna attack mods before fixing their fucking game? Guys, guys. This is very simple.

All we need to do is make mod repositories that are fluid. We can't have a DyingLightNexus for example but that doesn't mean it's mod community will die.

For example, you can't DMCA a torrent file hosted by many people ;^) We already have a Dying Light Nexus. I started it! But it was a rather pointless effort seeing as the only mods we can now make, for versions 1.2.1 and above, are video tweaks and such. When a publisher starts pulling crap like this, people are just going to pirate the game to get around the DRM. Aaaaand you lost tons of future sales from people like me that were waiting to see how this game held up.  I'm in that boat too.  Was going to give it  week or so, now I'm just like "meh."  If they're going to be complete dicks about how they're handling mods (on top of not having an option for something as simple as film grain...) I'm not voting with my wallet, it's simply apathy as I'm no longer interested in the game. Great, I planned on buying it and have been convincing my friends as well, but now I won't even waste my time pirating this piece of DRM shit. Go fuck yourselves Techland. They probably want to stop people from using their 9000 damage weapons against other players in the Zombie Invasions, top kek.

Anywho, great move Techland, see you on the other side of this PR stunt A terrible PR fiasco but people should realise that this will probably lead to fewer PC ports if they don't come to their senses.... Or if the community takes a "fine, I'll just pirate if I can't have everything exactly how I want it!" position on the issue.   Can't see developers taking any time to port to PC if the playerbase has no interest in purchasing titles. Good luck with the subreddit. What you're doing fills a very important niche in the gaming world. Sadly, there's a lot of gamers who fit the disabled category for one reason or another. Personally, I've seen a few people who were injured serving for the military come back home and have found that games gives them an outlet that otherwise wouldn't be there for them. It's not always the easiest thing but the joy that it brings them when they find a way to play their favorite genres is a sight to behold.

I really wish you luck with the subreddit. There is a website dedicated to reviews of games and accessibility of them. I can't remember the name of it, but I remember it would give you a full review of all the difficulties you may encounter. If I find it I will post it. www.ablegamers.com  I definitely agree with Steamified, glad someone like you is putting in an effort like this to help out our fellow gamers and keep the love for our hobby/2nd life In the UK, there's a charity called SpecialEffect ( http://www.specialeffect.org.uk ) who help disabled people with custom controls, trying different interfaces, and so on. Proud to have helped support them in the past.

If folk from other countries can chime in with similar local schemes?  [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] Thanks!  I actually have a modified PS4 controller that move the L1 and L2 to the right rear because I do not have a complete left hand and can't use them natively. It literally enables me to play every game I want to, where before I'd have to select from a small amount that do not require them or allowed custom control settings.

For PC, I use the Razer Naga and map pretty much everything but the movement keys to it for games. It's a life saver.

Good luck!

**EDIT**: Here's my album showing my DS4 if anyone is interested: http://imgur.com/a/PLkZk In similar situation, I use a razer mouse in my right hand - all nicely programmed, and a xbox controller in my left with xpadder to remap the keys.

Works really well in most games. Another option is the XIM. [Here's a semi-old post asking for options for disabled gamers](http://xim4.com/community/index.php?topic=35741.0). In the thread, one of the XIM team mentions the XIM Commander software. [It's STILL in development, though](http://xim4.com/community/index.php?topic=38509.0) Do you know where someone could find/buy a modded XBox 360 controller? Same mod: Moving the LB/LT buttons to the right. I went through [Evil Controllers](http://www.evilcontrollers.com).  I had mine custom made through their accessible controller team. They send you an "application" to get some basic info and put you in touch with a technician to work through the process.

Mine took a LONG time to actually get to me though, as I was one of the first accessible PS4 controllers, so they had to ship in a mod chip from China to remap the functions. (Yes, they do "modded" controls for FPS, but I have no "mods" in that sense, just extra buttons.)

They also seem to have some pre-designed 360 accessible controllers (http://www.evilcontrollers.com/products/accessible-controllers.html) if that looks like something you would want. Otherwise, just shoot them an email through their accessible email.  Good luck, and if you order a custom one, please be patient... it's worth it! I just went through their controller design and that website is awesome. Sure is expensive though. As I recall, Evil are very high quality, therefore pretty expensive. Take a look at Scuf. I think they made them for competitive and stuff, but I recall they had little paddles on the back where you rest your fingertips, I think you could bind them to any key, maybe that's an option for this kind of stuff. I wish they had extra triggers everywhere on the back. I mean 2-4 fingers (depending on what I use for triggers) aren't being used holding the handles. I could be *sooo* more efficient with two bumpers on the back of both handles. I don't need to see the triggers to know which to pull.

Games should also work on offering full customization of button/action association, I don't care how arbitrary it would seem to reassign certain toggles and buttons. Then you don't have to "pick" southpaw or green thumb. Great initiative! I've been gaming for about 7 plus years now one handed, with my left hand only. Unfortunately due to my location, I do not have easy access to modified controllers, so I've been making do with the default and some not-so recommended positions with my hands.

I've not met another disabled gamer personally yet, but it's great to see fellow gamers representing themselves online!

The recent one handed Vanquish run from AGDQ 2015 was really encouraging for me personally.

I'll be keeping an eye on the sub! I use my left hand only for most genres excluding fighting games and games with fire buttons so I think I can guess the positions you use.

I have to take this opportunity to ask: Does your pinky finger get really cold in comparison to the rest of your hand? Hah! Fighting games is currently the genre I'm trying to get back into (though sadly, my beloved arcade stick isn't viable anymore).

Regarding your question, no my pinky does not get cold. The positions mainly involve my wrist in certain positions. I use different positions when using a X360 controller, PS3, PS4, 3DS... and for different games with different demands. 

A result of that is usually strain and numbness after prolonged playtime. Plenty of stretching needed =(

A full time job at the computer doesn't help either!

PS: My disability and affected side was almost the entire right side, with my left intact. Wow, just realized I'm an idiot that can't ask questions.

I was trying to say that it happens to me when using a controller (mostly in cases that require both analogs sticks/stick+ face buttons) and my pinky stays on the L2/LT position.

And I feel you. I too have a desk job. Given the affordance of most controllers, our positions should be fairly similar. Yes, pinky is almost always there. Hoo... never really noticed.

I just tend to settle in a position by sheer **will to game**. &gt; Unfortunately due to my location, I do not have easy access to modified controllers, so I've been making do with the default and some not-so recommended positions with my hands.

If you don't mind me asking where are you located? Is there anything that anyone can do that may be in a better location to help you have a better time gaming? I'm currently in Malaysia. Disability sadly still carries a heavier social stigma amongst in Asian societies (was in Australia for 7 years back, there's a huge difference), while the topic of accessibility isn't really developed/appreciated.

The lack of availability and the low income makes it quite hard for me to even consider getting additional tools and such.

Whether there's anything that can help gaming experience... there's not much I can realistically think of. I do carry around an anti-slip mat (actually pastry mat) for stability.

What I really wanted recently (and realistically) is get a custom arcade/fighting stick made, but with the stick a lot closer to the buttons (so I can play fighting games 1 handed). 

Browsed a bit at Shoryuken forums (where I bought my custom stick 8 years ago), but the custom stick market... has really gone quiet.

Well, props to commercial fighting sticks for improving a lot over the last decade.

I'll give it more thought, I could think of some other things... As a dev, I'll be subbing so I can keep an eye how to open up any games I work on, to anyone that would want to play. 

Good luck! Info here: http://www.gameaccessibilityguidelines.com Awesome link. Cheers! Great initiative! Though I'm not disabled myself, I am researching brain-computer interfaces and am very curious to see whether devices like the [Epoc](http://www.emotiv.com/) are going to become a viable alternative input method for disabled people. 

For example, [this guy](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=l-kwgxJ3bPk) seems to be playing World of Warcraft using just the Epoc. (This is not brain-computer interfacing so much as it is facial muscle-computer interfacing, but still very cool.) Good luck with the subreddit. I am fortunate in that the only "disability" I have, Crohn's disease, does not limit my gaming experience so I can't imagine how frustrating it can be for other redditors! 

However very few developers take into account even the more widespread issues that can impact gaming exeprience like colour blindness and it is something that I hope comes to the forefront within the gaming community.

This subreddit seems like a very useful niche, and I really hope it takes off. I'd consider trying to contact /u/No_Hands_Ken who did [an ama](http://www.reddit.com/r/IAmA/comments/2f6r8k/iama_quadriplegic_who_plays_diablo_world_of/) a few months back. He may be able to help popularise and/or advertise the subreddit, raise general awareness etc. I once read that the dev of Grimrock kept option to have the arrow key buttons on the screen so you didn't need a keyboard to play the game - seems to be of importance to some disabled gamers.  see here: http://i.imgur.com/JgKda.jpg I think it is worth noting that this weeks Humble Bundle has two charities related to this cause: http://www.specialeffect.org.uk/ and http://www.gamesaid.org/

They are both dedicated to helping disabled people play video games. You can donate to their cause by purchasing some games: https://www.humblebundle.com/weekly

(Disclaimer: I am one of the Devs whose game is featured on the bundle) I love finding out how companies accommodate players with different abilities. Sometimes it results in a better game for all players. I remember one company was asked to make crouch a toggle option because the gamer couldn't press that many buttons at once. Half life 2 had subtitles so everyone could pick up on audio clues in single player yes, most accessibility considerations are actually just good game design, as what's an exclusionary barrier for one group is also often a bit of an annoyance for everyone else too. Agreed, subtitles mentioned above are good examples as they help not only players with hearing disablity, but also people without decent headset/speaker and many foreign people who are likely to have harder time listening then reading. Do you guys make use of the program voice attack? I started using it when playing Elite Dangerous and it occurred to me how well it would help disabled players. Basically lets you map voice commands to a keypress or macro. Wow, that's an impressive product. I can imagine how it can be useful.

Although, I do not really need it at the moment for anything. Bookmarked for future reference/needs, thanks for the link! there are a few free ones too...i forget their names though. voice attack is only $8 though and more user friendly from what i can tell. That and TrackIR are a great combination Have you heard of the professional gamer brolylegs? I came into this thread looking for brolylegs and was not disappointed. This guy is an amazing fighting game player. He plays high-level Smash as Lucina, and uses Chun-Li in Street Fighter 4. I don't know if he plays anything else. He can only use the four face buttons, but with the right binds, he has every option he needs. And even without the disability, he really knows his stuff and is fundamentally strong. An absolute inspiration. I've seen him play Chun Li, the man is a beast. I wonder how big the market is for controllers designed for disabled people? I bet there'd be a lucrative niche for one-handed or foot operated controllers. Maybe some kind of head rig where you control movement with your eyes and mouth. http://www.cnet.com/au/news/samsungs-eyecan-lets-your-eyes-control-your-computer/

The technology already exists, someone should do something with it Can we get this sub added to the sidebar? You should include links to common peripherals for disabled players, and a list of common addresses that developers deal with in their games. Like colorblindness, and accessibility through open key bindings in the sidebar.

Although I am sure those things will be addressed with user generated content. Best of luck for everyone involved. I had a friend in college who had a brain aneurysm when he was young which partially paralyzed the left side of his body. He played emulated games on his macbook with a NES controller one handed and was a fucking master at it. Not even turn based RPG stuff, fast paced stuff like Sonic. Watching him do it all one handed was wizardry. Thanks for the story! Hearing such familiar things (I had a brain aneurysm during college, right side paralyzed) and a success story after really encourages me to step up my game.

Every time I see someone do something really well one handed, I go, "Well! There's no longer any excuse for me now." I am not disabled, but that fact that it exists now makes me warm inside. Good like with your endeavours!  My sister is a gamer who lost her arm in a car wreck a few years ago. Around the time the first Nintendo Wii came out. Luckily, that system had a few games that could be played with one hand with a Wiimote. She was quite happy for that, but there are not enough games that are made like this, unfortunately. If she/you haven't already...Boom Blox.  well up there on my list of best games ever. I rarely played our family's wii. When I did, it was to play boom blox.
 Thanks. I'll be sure to mention it to her. Definetely get in contact with the charity Able Gamers which is all about making custom controllers for kids with disabilities so they can game too! They would be a great resource for solutions.   I worked for a few years as a care attendant for quadriplegics. One of the greatest services I provided was steering characters through games for my buddy Pete. He'd bark orders and I'd follow them. 

It was a *really* fun way to play games for both of us. If there was a way to coordinate play between paralysed and non-paralysed gamers, that would be cool. 

Also, playing games like Myst worked really well when playing in tandem. The toughest part was doing things I didn't want to do.
  "Okay, go through that door."  
"Wanna go back to the vault?"  
 "No, go through that door."   
 "Grrr." You should consider contacting the Street fighter player Brolylegs, extremely capable player who happens to be disabled in a way you would expect to make the game impossible  That seems like a really cool idea. As a hobby dev I might ask a few questions in that sub try to implement as many features as possible to help with disabled gaming in my future games. Great idea and good luck! While not disabled personally, I work in the field of user experience and human factors. Accessibility is a huge part of this and while my specific area (web applications) isn't game-related, I anticipate I will be able to learn a lot that will carry over quite well.  Thanks!!! [Able Gamers](http://www.ablegamers.com) does just this, and are one of the charities involved in our first ever pay-what-you-want NSFW Hump the "Undie" Bundle sale #1 live right now and for the next 8 days. 

We've already raised a few thousand dollars for charity!

https://www.humpthebundle.com (NSFW!!) This is awesome. I don't have any disabilities myself but I am a caretaker for many people with widely varying disabilities, young and old. I've often wondered about this subject, since there are a few people I support who enjoy videogames. Does being left-handed count as a disability? 

Because Starbound is *really* awkward to play since I can't rebind anything. :( Have you tried something like [KeyTweak](http://www.tucows.com/preview/327616/KeyTweak) or [SharpKeys](https://sharpkeys.codeplex.com/) to change your basic keyboard layout?

I'm not familiar with Starbound and their key-bindings but the two pieces of software i've mentioned are free-ware and cost nothing to try out.

Ninja Edit: [Apparently one of the Dev's](http://community.playstarbound.com/index.php?threads/howto-keybinding.72056/)  from Starbound has announced how to do key remapping within the game. Just find what action you need to change in the tutorial and reassign it to a different key in the config file. Or alternatively use this [program someone created.](http://community.playstarbound.com/index.php?threads/starbound-keybinder-windows.74180/) Hey, I'm left handed but never played Starbound. Just out of interest, what makes it awkward to play? The key bindings and mouse controls are all made with right handed players in mind. (WASD to move, left click to use your held item, E to interact etc) I'm a lefty and in a wheelchair... Games like this are the norm. Either switch your mouse to your left hand and use your right hand for WASD, or use your left hand for WASD (as I do) and right hand for mouse. It's possible to train yourself. I can imagine doing that is a good way to train yourself in using both hands. I always want to but I don't have an easily switched appliance that I also use frequently enough for it to matter. Ah, I use a computer as if I was right handed and was trying to think from that perspective. I can definitely see how it would be difficult to control if you were using a mouse in your left hand. My friend is left-handed and the Guitar Hero 2 Gibson X-Plorer was almost impossible for him to use. The game even has a left handed mode in game but the hardware was designed for right-handed people. Weird, I'm left-handed but it just now occurred to me that I never even considered not using WASD and a mouse on the right side while gaming. I never really considered until this moment that I might not be a "true" left-hander, since the only accommodation I've ever needed is a left-handed desk since I write left-handed.

As for it being a disability, "disability" is kind of a meaningless term without some implied reference to a baseline, isn't it? I'm sure you/I wouldn't compare it to something more dramatic, but it seems to meet that test of requiring special accommodation and living to some extent in a world which isn't designed for you. http://www.autohotkey.com/

Autohotkey isn't exactly easy to use (understatement), but it's very powerful.  You can use it to take complete control of your keyboard, including making re-mappings that only function inside particular programs.

If you don't have any programming experience, it might be too complicated, but I bet there are people willing to help on their forums or /r/AutoHotkey. Disability occurs when a medical condition encounters a barrier, resulting in difficultly performing a day to day task. So if a game's control scheme causes you difficulty as a result of your left-handedness, then yes, that game has disabled you. [deleted] [deleted] Thank you for giving it a good title. Too many people would have called it something like /r/handicapgamemods and then wonder why it never got any traffic. I'm subscribed now. I'm not disabled in a way that affects my gaming, but I have a ridiculous library (2k+) and can maybe provide answers to some questions. Thank you very much. I can't count the times I've needed the help of someone to tell me the controls in some game, particularly on handheld games. Cool. I'll keep it on my radar and try to answer questions about if the game allows remapping controls and such. I subbed. I hope there's something I can do to help in the future, be it contribute to a charity, help get a website started, or otherwise offer general support. I want gaming to be accessible to all. I really hope as voice recognition technology improves the way it does, we end up seeing more games we can play by listening and speaking commands to the computer. I think it will be explored eventually, since this medium is still growing. I'd have a lot of fun playing a game like that, I want to role play a starship captain!



 Mentioned elsewhere in the thread but VoiceAttack does exactly that.  Can also reply to you with Ivana text to speech.  A lot of us Elite: Dangerous players use it It would be rather difficult to do something like that with something like an FPS which requires complex maneuvers with several buttons and sticks at the same time. Perhaps a turn-based strategy game would work alright as a test run.  I assume a game like that would be very similar to the text-based RPGs and roguelikes of years passed. There's even a few text-based MMOs that have been around for years. Lusternia comes to mind.

Obviously there'd have to be some sort of filtering system so players don't get overwhelmed by audio from other players, but it'd be a fun thing to explore. As I said in my first post, seeing games like what I'm imagining is an inevitability. Someone, somewhere, will make it within the next decades. [deleted] Please follow the subreddit rules. We don't allow low effort comments (jokes, puns, memes, reaction gifs, personal attacks or other types of comments that doesn't add anything relevant to the discussion) in /r/Games. What a lovely idea. I've no disability outside of hyperacusis which doesn't hinder my gaming ability, but it's lovely to see as many people enjoying games as possible. I hope said subreddit helps many-a-person in the future :) Out of curiosity, do you play without sound, or otherwise have to micromanage volumes and frequencies? I've got some sound tolerance issues which I never really considered to be hyperacusis before (since I was under the impression that hyperacusis is steady and does not come and go), but they do require me to manage volumes and frequencies quite a bit sometimes and I'd be interested in learning more about your experience. I actually don't recall me having a problem with game audio before, but I have with done when I make music. Recently I had a guitar playing and there was a certain note that sounded really harsh. When my brother heard it he said it sounded normal, but to me it was quite painful. There might have been some sounds that have gotten me in the past, but they probably passed over in a couple of seconds. I'm the most intolerant to higher pitches, and since you don't generally get a lot of those on a regular basis in games, I tend to fare just fine. My condition has dumbed down over the years, though. As a baby a rustling bag or sizzling in a pan was enough to make me burst into tears, now it's certain noises like people sniffing, babies crying, high-pitched creaking, and so on, but in those cases I wear ear plugs which really helps. Nice, I'm nowhere near there but that does sound a bit like me at times (though I'm again hesitant to self-diagnose). It comes and goes in waves. Severe, debilitating hyperacusis is one of the worst things I can imagine so I'm glad it's rare. Agreed. On the one hand I feel it's comforting to know I'm not the only one suffering from it, but on the other it's disheartening to know there are others suffering through what I did (and sometimes still do). I'm just glad that I'm through with my early days of school. Hyperacusis plus screamy, stuffy-nosed kids is NOT a match made in heaven. It even gave me a phobia of going out to places because I just wanted to avoid children, and to this day they can still put me in pain. It's just nice that, like I said, it has become less severe over the years. I believe that treatment for it is possible via an operation, but because I'm finnicky about anyone doing things to my body I refused said operation. If you're interested it might be worth looking into. If I was experiencing anything even close to your level, probably even the best of it, maybe I'd have to consider something like that. But as it is that would be like me equating my experience as somebody who wears glasses with people who are legally blind :). Oh right. I'm really glad you don't have it too bad. Anyway, nice talking with you :p This is awesome, got a friend who recently broke an arm and he is despairing atm since he can't game and he can't read comfortable with only one arm. This might help him somewhat, will definitely forward this to him. Very nice. I am a disabled PC only gamer and can only play 1 handed (right). Despite not being a huge fan of the genre I mostly stick to FPS games as they are by far the easiest to control with my current setup.  I don't consider myself disabled, but I do have somewhat mild arthritis and sometimes find it difficult to perform certain maneuvers quickly, so I can see how it would be frustrating to have a real disability and try to play video games. I appreciate what you're doing and hope that your subreddit continues to get better.  Just wanted to send you a huge thanks. My little bro is a c5-c6 complete quad and a huge gamer.  Hes always on the lookout for new accessible games. Ill be sure to send him the link if he hasnt seen it already since hes a redditor as well.
 Wow, when I looked at this in the morning there were two posts in the subreddit, now there's more than a full page of them! Awesome sub, I hope it stays strong! What if I just suck at games? My friend suffers from Duchenne's Muscular Dystrophy and can play only with his right hand, and with very limited dexterity, though he had also been experimenting with voice and eye motion control. This could be of great interest to him. May I suggest you crosspost this to other gaming subs as well? /r/Gaming4Gamers and /r/GirlGamers might be good places to plug this :) Real good on you OP. 

Go and subscribe there guys, even if you don't need it, that'll be higher chances of someone seeing a question and knowing how to help. Subscribing to support your effort, and I will ask my coworkers to do so too! We work a lot with ablegamers and this is a great way for us to stay informed, so thank you for creating this.

Best of luck with your community :) My brother has a palsy of his left hand. He holds the controller in his lap and puts his right hand over the whole controller and presses shoulder buttons with his index fingers and mashing the other buttons with his palm. Wow! I thought they were going to end up with a lot less this year! Fantastic effort from everyone that donated!

http://www.reddit.com/r/speedrun/comments/2ra5rw/agdq_vods_thread_2015/ has all the Twitch and Youtube VODs, I personally recommend GTA Vice City and Halo 2, although I haven't watched too much else yet The Battleblock Theatre Co-op speed run with the Dev's present is awesome. My favorite was I wanna be the boshy. The guy was just hilarious and the betting they made just made it 3x funnier. I loved GameJ06's run of Super Mario Bros.: The Lost Levels because of his great commentary. [Run.](http://www.twitch.tv/gamesdonequick/b/607794022?t=12h29m30s) Yes that guy had class! Do you have a link to the boshy run ?  Here you go: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Vatf8rFVmaM Witwix is one of the only speed runners I'll watch, mostly because of his hilarious attitude and general lax approach to speed running. Check out his channel for far more humor and a surprising amount of interaction while he goes through his runs.  Yeah, the Hot Gay Dads are awesome! (It's his community's name, btw) I spend so much time in his channel, just because he can somehow keep up with 600-800 people talking in his chat and still be amazing at Boshy. Yep. 1000+ often too.  Seriously, it blows my mind. Also, I recognize your username! Awesome! :D The commentary made that run 10x better than it was. I agree, I turned on AGDQ as witwix was just starting the run, and thought to myself, "I'll just watch 5 minutes of this, I don't want to watch a game I never heard of with a 1:05:00 estimate," but I ended up watching the whole run and loved it. Witwix's commentary was some of the best at AGDQ, mostly because of his great humour, and I immediately subscribed to his Twitch stream after watching him. Hot gay dad hype! SUPER HOT
ULTRA GAY
\#1 DAD Witwix is awesome, and his streams are just like that, if a little saltier. I really recommend watching him.
 he had such an incredible attitude toward a game that was designed to make you hate everything witwix is awesome, go to his twitch account and follow that fucker. Also: check out the Kingdoms Hearts IIFM, FF7 and Vanquish speed runs, they are amazing IMO.  Hand hold % Witwix(?) is hilariously narcissistic and talented and opinionated. He's a riot to watch even if he comes off as douchey sometimes. Also very skilled at Boshy, of course.  That was Witwix. He's my favorite twitch streamer, I found out about him at last GDQ, and have been subbed / followed him ever since. All his streams are amazing. Definitely recommend giving him a follow:

http://www.twitch.tv/witwix I started watching Witwix stream after seeing his previous GDQ Boshy run.

One of the funniest things I've seen him do is get quite drunk and have his viewers go to his girlfriend's twitch channel (she was streaming) to have her order a pizza for him. Witwix is like that all the time. His streams are always good Shovel Knight was good for the same reason. The devs were so giddy seeing the tricks the runner used. Yes that was incredible, i hope we'll see more of that kind of run involving the devs in the future. Those parts were my favorites actually. It was so much fun hearing the devs being appalled by the runners strats and abuses! 

"You're not supposed to do that!" "You're a cheater!" Will Stamper chiming in was golden. At the Metroid Prime run in 2014 they had a developer who worked on the first two Prime games (David Kirsch - Senior Programmer) on Skype with them at the event. You might find it interesting. That was fun to watch. I remember when the runner was doing the power bomb puzzle and the dev was talking about how he designed the puzzle and how many combinations there were. The runner proceeded to pull out a computer and load a program made by himself to create the puzzle. That was probably the best ADGQ run I've ever watched. It's what got me hooked last year. Also The Mask run from last year's AGDQ by Mr. K was [great](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8z-JyJxos-E). "Whaaaat?" The [They Bleed Pixels](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=E_ULUeuVzYw) speedrun also had a dev present this year, and that was great.

The [within a deep forest](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4ix41H3tTNo) speedrun also had a dev, but the game isn't really my style [Link to the run](http://www.twitch.tv/gamesdonequick/b/607482883?t=7h22m50s)

 I laughed so hard at some of the commentary. Really a great show during the block.  The commentary on that run was hilarious. Some ones I caught and was blown away by. [Tetris: The Grandmaster exhibition](http://twitch.tv/gamesdonequick/b/608177424?t=11h02m45s) , [Super Mario World 2: Yoshi's Island Ray Charles % (blindfolded run)](http://www.twitch.tv/gamesdonequick/b/608502697?t=16h24m35s) , [TASbot Pokemon Plays Twitch pt1](http://twitch.tv/gamesdonequick/b/607265831?t=37m) Dude, how could you not put the [Ocarina of Time Child section BLINDFOLD run](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mxucgGsKYfY) That was too fucking crazy. He completed that whole section blindfolded faster than I could with two eyes! He's in the process of completing the game 100% blindfolded, he streams this every wednesday at 9:30pm GMT I never watched this guy until last night.

Okay, yet another speed runner, nothing specia-  IS HE PLAYING ZELDA BLINDFOLDED?!

That's insane.  He had to memorize extreme;y long patterns of sound effects, where he character is oriented, and *massive* level layouts, not to mention fight enemies and puzzles and *holy shit*.

I wonder how long he played before he could do that... Pff, that's nothing. The guy who did that run was inspired by a blind guy who decided to play through the entire game. He actually accomplished it as well. He was actually one of the guys that made a walkthrough for the blind guy. Runner Guy (the runner from last night) actually helped the blind guy do it too. He was inspired by the blind guy because he was the person who helped him. 
Runnerguy is an awesomely talented bloke. :)  
What would happen was runnerguy gave him (blind guy) instructions to get through the level. The blind guy would record it and send it to runnerguy and he'd review it and go over it with him and then give him a new instruction set.  
Pretty sure during one of his livestreams for practising this run he said that he didn't want to seem like a TAS that went out of sync, much like the blind guy.  
He wanted a couple of scenarios where he'd have to work out where he was. As it turned out he stuffed up on his own, so it all worked out anyway. 

TLDR; the blind guy completing it was still impressive, don't want to take away from that. Just wanted to point out that he didn't do it alone. Runnerguy (the guy that did the blindfolded run) was the same person who helped the blind guy.

EDIT: Did a little research and it turns out there was a group of them that helped him. Yeah, to be honest, all I heard was the inspiration part. That's what I get for assuming. Thanks to you (and the other guys) for clarifying. Didn't mean to diminish what Runnerguy did either. Only someone truly insane would think someone could actually think what he did wasn't impressive. He's currently doing a 100% OoT run every wednesday on his stream. He comes up with strats on the fly and it's crazy how well he knows the game. He basically memorized every level layout and knows exactly where he has to go... blindfolded. It was a pretty meh run for me at first. I watched him do a trick and was pissed no one clapped, then I saw the blindfold. The run became a lot more interesting after that. Yeah Runnerguy is a pro, he is actually trying to 100% OoT blindfolded... Man, I don't even know how I feel about that. &gt;  IS HE PLAYING ZELDA BLINDFOLDED?!

[Blindfolded Zelda is best Zelda](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Wf31vbZO8yo) there was one blindfolded run last year where the guy caused a glitch to happen and he got trapped in some abyss while still pulling off his original routine. Shit was hilarious That tetris one... that guy is obscene! I mean HOW IS IT EVEN HUMAN TO DO THAT?! I was just sitting with my mouth open during that segment. Fucking unreal. That was amazing. I thought that nothing can impress me more than a Korean playing at 400 apm in starcraft  but this may come close or even Trump it.  That was amazing.And apparently there are some japanese runners that are even better..... Not one mention of the [Ninja Gaiden relay race!?](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QaZPNynw7qY)

Seriously so freaking hype. Best run of the year for sure.  Less than a second! I'll add to the recommended runs list.  I'm providing youtube links only because twitch player burns my laptop:

 - [Uncharted: Drake's Fortune](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SJRQWOHzaBQ).  Glitch-heavy map-clipping chapter-skipping bonanaza.

 - [Crazy Taxi challenges race](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=INXeo_zUDqI).  Fun game to watch, good race.

 - [InFamous: Festival of Blood](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IUlXMy9KaEs).  Outstanding run.  New World Record, in fact.

 - [Star Wars: Jedi Knight - Dark Forces II](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3l-sKMhcigw).  Crazy difficult run, really well done.

 - Last but by no means least, halfcoordinated's [one-handed Vanquish run](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0tIwyUkCrj0).  Fucking awesome game (buy it), awesome fun run.  With one hand. The pure excitement that infamous runner had after his time was announced was pretty awesome to see. I was already surprised to see Vanquish in the line-up, so imagine my surprise when I load it up and find out halfcoordinated actually only did it one handed. I didn't even notice until the very end, I was blown away, he has no problem whatsoever controlling it. If you check his stream info he explains that he has some kind of muscle issue, and he can't really work the right hand side of his body.  He speedruns all his games one-handed. Dark Forces 2 was the first PC game I ever owned. It took me 2.5 weeks to beat. That was a crazy run... It gets buried under a lot of the bigger titles, but the cutscene% run of [The Town with No Name](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xpIRTuyikow) by Brossentia is hilarious. It's seriously the worst game I've ever seen. But its also the funniest.  That was so bad. But Brossentia made it so good. Oh god that game is so bad it's amazing, can't wait to watch this later Woah, man, that's Alex Navarro from Giant Bomb on the couch behind him.  I've been listening to a little too much Giant Bomb stuff recently, and hearing his voice really threw me for a loop.  Cool to see he made the trip down from New York to be there. Alex was not only in attendance, he did a (very quick) speed run himself of Big Rigs They said during the finale that their tracker had missed a significant ammount of donations throughout the week (but they still went through to PCF). So they have to add roughly 400k worth of donations manually over the coming week, donations prizes will be drawn after that.

edit: [Finale VOD](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Ai8Etd7Vlo4) Yep, this happened to me and I exchanged a few emails with Chris (is that romscout?) about it. Also to be clear, I did get confirmation from Paypal that the payment *did* go through to the Prevent Cancer Foundation which is the important part.  Shame you and a whole lot more missed the opputunity of getting your comment read tho :( So the payment DID go through? Any time an event like this comes through, I always suspect it all going to "admin fees". It's nice they offer proof of the amount of the donation. Yep! My PayPal receipt is for the Prevent Cancer Foundation with a PCF contact email. My guess is the PayPal code callback which says, "hey the payment went through; here are the transaction details" sometimes failed to get processed by the AGDQ tracker. If you enjoy RPGs or spectacle fighters, I really recommend watching the KH2FM run; a fantastic show of skills in both foresight and moment-to-moment gameplay. Goddamn. Also, if you enjoy pure speed, I suggest watching the Jedi Knight: Dark Forces 2 run.

Oh, and if you haven't heard anything, I'd really watch the TASbot plays pokemon red as well, I won't spoil why, but it's preeetty good. I love the KH speedrun community. Thier huge charity stream marathon to raise money to send people/prove they could actually be worthwhile at AGDQ was amazing. Spikevegeta and all those guys know how to have fun with their games. It sure looked like they'd get a lot less for a long time. I love AGDQ, fantastic effort once again. 

I'd also recommend Zelda: A link to the past, one of my all time favorites and a really entertaining run.  I checked out the donations from earlier marathons, and Humblebundle had donated 85k to SGDQ2014 which totaled 750k or so. So when the total donations was at 915k with 10 minutes left and no donation from Humblebundle, I figured they would easily get it over a million. A lot of the Sonic block was pretty solid, too. Especially Generations and Heroes. Those games were almost always played in some broken way, but in many different broken ways. It's not just the same 1-2 glitches over and over, but lots of different ways to abuse the game. The sonic heroes runner controlling with his chin was fucking hilarious How come some of them don't link to the VOD? (ie Halo 2)

EDIT: Grammar. Yea I watched halo 2 and they hadn't broken 700k yet, I guess a lot came over the finale, I figure ocarina was a big one  I really like banjo kazoo, the Tetris block and OOO Child Dungeons Blind, but I really haven't watched that many yet.

 "From donations alone they raised $1.1 million. Adding the sales of merch and other apparel supporting the fund, they raised $1.5 million! The official amount raised will be released next week."

I thought they said from donations and merch/humble bundle they raised 1.1m and that some donations had not shown up on the tracker which could take them to 1.5m &gt; I thought they said from donations and merch/humble bundle they raised 1.1m and that some donations had not shown up on the tracker which could take them to 1.5m

I can verify (for what ever that is worth) that this is exactly what they said.  The tracker was bugged preventing some non nominal amount of donations from showing up, but the donations did land in pcf's cancer killing pocket.  They'll have to do a manual count and delay the drawings for the different prizes due to this bug.

But man, I'm sad that AGDQ is over now.  I feel like a con I was attending just ended, even though I was never actually there.  Being able to watch all those different runs live, usually with at least one friend on voip with me too, was great.  

I can't wait for SGDQ! &gt; I feel like a con I was attending just ended, even though I was never actually there.

That's exactly how I felt, always sad to see something like this end.

I'm looking forward to SGDQ though too, though I'm kind of new to this whole scene. Is SGDQ as big of an event as AGDQ? [Last year's SGDQ was almost as big](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Speed_Demos_Archive#Charity_marathons), in regards to number of games played and overall length.  It "only" reached $718k though. [deleted] Both AGDQ and SGDQ have a 12 hour block during the marathons called "Awful games done quick".  Its usually in the middle of the night.  It is fantastic to watch if for nothing else than the troll commentary on the bad games.

I am sure you can find it in the VoDs if you are interested. Someone speedran Big Rigs this year. That someone was Alex Navarro of Giant Bomb Who happens to be the same someone that [reviewed the game for GameSpot](http://www.gamespot.com/reviews/big-rigs-over-the-road-racing-review/1900-6086528/).

[Here is an article](http://www.giantbomb.com/articles/alex-did-a-speedrun-of-big-rigs-for-charity/1100-5167/) about doing the run during AGDQ, including a video of the run. [deleted] 
[Link to the start of the Awful games done quick block](http://www.twitch.tv/gamesdonequick/b/608502697?t=58m20s) They usually have at least one such block in every GDQ schedule. There is also ESA, which is a similar thing, and takes place this year June 28th - July 5th.

http://www.europeanspeedsterassembly.com/ The $1.1 million is from donations + humble-bundle + twitch. 

The $1.5 million is still not confirmed, as the numbers haven't been added up yet.  Ah my bad...that's correct.  I can't believe how much the saving/kill the animals raised on it's own.

That blindfolded Zelda:OOT run was fucking amazing. [deleted] [deleted] At the end of the metroid run you have a choice to kill or save the animals. Saving them loses you some time though. So people put forward money to ask for the animals to be saved or to be killed.

[Animal spoiler](#s "at the end of the metroid run this year they saved the animals") [Animal spoiler](#s "Actually, they had a $10,000 donation that swung the poll in favour of saving the animals. The donation came in 40 seconds before the cutoff") Yeah I know I accidentally wrote the wrong one down because I was talking to my husband about it while typing. Oops! on the super metroid run they always have a vote to see wether or not to save some animals at the end of the run, it takes about another 20 seconds and this is 10 seconds from finishing the game. That last minutes $10,000 donation was HYPE!!!! At the end of SMB3 the runner does a glitched low-chance-of-success run where he tries to beat the game in 3 minutes.
I thought that was the best part.  Tetris was pretty rad too.  

http://youtu.be/8GRK-f3KntU?t=54m1s [deleted] From what I understand they actually went and sought that glitch out. It's a bit technical, but basically they realized that a certain way to glitch the game caused the game to skip into a spot in RAM and start executing code. Basically 100% of the time that results in a crash because you can't execute random bytes in a sensible way.

Once they figured out what was going on there, they figured that with the correct bytes set to the right values, they could use that glitch to execute some code that would jump to the end of the game. Turns out that the memory locations that get executed include enemy positions, so they scoured the game to find a room where enough enemies exist that they can place in the right positions to make that happen.

It wasn't found by accident, that's for sure. :) [deleted] Basically the glitch was engineered by analyzing code and such... the timings and locations are so tight that it was pretty darn close to a 1 in a billion chance that would work.  You get the sense that this entire thing is one community after another coming together to showcase their runs.   This was my first time watching AGDQ and it was such a blast. The Kingdom Hearts run was probably my personal favorite time, the crew's excitement the whole way through was just amazing. Shovel Knight was a close second thanks to both being really exciting to watch and the fact that some of the Yacht Club devs were available on Skype to hang out alongside the run, they were way cool.

But it's great seeing the gaming community pull together for such a great cause in such a significant way. Props to everybody that helped and I can't wait to watch this again. If you missed the Battleblock Theater run, I recommend it if you enjoyed the Shovel Knight commentary.

The developers were on Skype the entire time and it was probably the most hilarious part of the entire marathon for me. The Announcer was on skype, that just made that run for me.  It's [Stamper](https://www.youtube.com/user/StamperTV/featured) and if you enjoy the humor in BBT you'll probably love the rest of his stuff. Stamper is also a regular on the podcast, SleepyCabin.  Runner: "Oh this is one of my favourite rooms" Developer "Oh yeah I kinda like this to. I love how you can ... wait, did you just ... how did y-" -- "How long did this one take you to make?" -- "FIVE HOURS" Does anyone know the time stamps for Kingdom Hearts and Shovel Knight? Oh shit and I just went to the link and they're doing Bastion but it's over and I don't know how I'm supposed to rewind.

I really only watched Battle Block Theater and it was hilarious. http://www.reddit.com/r/speedrun/comments/2ra5rw/agdq_vods_thread_2015/ &lt;-all the runs with timestamps.  http://www.reddit.com/r/speedrun/comments/2ra5rw/agdq_vods_thread_2015/ /r/speedrun has a vod list. Jedi Knight DF2 was my personal fav I used to play JK:DF2 online quite a bit, and that was a pleasure to watch his mechanics.   Is there any better way than YouTube to watch the VoDs? Seeking through a 23hrs VoD is kinda terrible o_0 http://www.reddit.com/r/speedrun/comments/2ra5rw/agdq_vods_thread_2015/ &lt;-all the runs with timestamps.  thy a lot. Best parts this year: Games with dev commentary, Tetris: Grandmaster exhibition and of course, listening to YSG laugh. The Tetris stuff more than anything else in the entire marathon made me think "I could not do that, these guys aren't human." :o How does that money get spent? Since 1985, the Prevent Cancer Foundation, a 501(c)3 nonprofit, has invested $138 million in support of cancer prevention research, education, advocacy and outreach programs nationwide and have played a pivotal role in developing a body of knowledge that is the basis for important prevention and early detection strategies. The Foundation is the only U.S. nonprofit organization solely devoted to cancer prevention and early detection. We have funded nearly 450 scientists at over 150 leading medical institutions across the country. Our public education programs have applied this scientific knowledge to inform the public about ways they can reduce their cancer risks.

http://preventcancer.org/what-we-do/ [A lot of us have been critical](http://www.reddit.com/r/speedrun/comments/2rf45x/the_charity_for_adqg2015_way_too_national_and/) of AGDQ promoting PCF primarily for two reasons: They only work in the US as well as a few parts in Canada, which is never made clear during the stream at any time. This is kind of a slap in the face to those who donate from across the world, especially since AGDQ offers French and German re-streams.

PCF also donates about 75% of its earnings goes towards the research/awarness, while the rest goes into the pockets of the executives (not to mention the guy running AGDQ also pockets a nice percentage from doing this).

In comparison, Doctors Without Borders for SGDQ uses 90% of their funds and it's made clear from the start that it's a organization that helps 3rd world countries. 

Edit: Just want to make it clear that PCF is not a bad charity by any means, but it feels as AGDQ is a bit misleading when it comes to telling the whole story about PCF. &gt;while the rest goes into the pockets of the executives (not to mention the guy running AGDQ also pockets a nice percentage from doing this).

Believe it or not, it takes money to run a charity and keep AGDQ going. 25% of donations going into overhead is normal, it's not just the executives who would get paid.  It looks like 9.5% is administrative expense, 13.8% goes to fundraising, 76.7% goes to the program according to the [source](http://www.charitynavigator.org/index.cfm?bay=search.summary&amp;orgid=5435#.VLKybna3NLU) /u/vitaminf posted &gt; PCF also donates about 75% of its earnings goes towards the research/awarness, while the rest goes into the pockets of the executives (not to mention the guy running AGDQ also pockets a nice percentage from doing this).

75% is normal for a charity. By no means is it bad, maybe people just think it doesn't look as strong as Doctors Without Borders, who are way above average  It's completely fucked up that such an obviously international fundraiser only benefits the US. That they didn't stop to think about that is astounding. &gt;They only work in the US as well as a few parts in Canada, which is never made clear during the stream at any time. This is kind of a slap in the face to those who donate from across the world, especially since AGDQ offers French and German re-streams.

Money for cancer research benefits the whole world, no matter what country it's done in. This isn't a charity for jobs creation.  The pcf's goal is not research it is prevention and education to help fight cancers that we already know how to deal with. If you belive all this money and any money you donated is going mostly to research you have been duped. A majority of their money goes into awareness rather than research. Among the other things that the PCF does, they mentioned on stream two specific causes that were (in part) funded by prior Games Done Quick charity marathons: an HPV immunization program and funding for a study in the link between fatty tissue and cancer. Promotion of prevention of cancer.. Educating people about symptoms, and that catching it early will literally save your life. They don't research for a cure but what they do is equally as important in getting survival rates up.  Congrats to everyone. Thats an amazing amount of money!

This was the first year I really got in involved. Sat through the entire Majora's Mask and Mario RPG playthrough which was awesome. Despite this I only ever checked the schedule on the last day. Other than that I was simply going on the stream every so often and having a look! So good, now going to check for my favorite games! Did anyone see the 42 minute ANIMAL CROSSING SPEED RUN?

http://youtu.be/Y5ZLDM5etbs Wow that explanation of the pivotal duplication glitch was pretty intense (it's at the 17min mark, and there's bonus super donation!) 14,000 bells for the Autumn Medal.
$14,000 donation.. TWICE!

I loved everything about that speedrun. Congrats to the guys doing AGDQ yearly! I started watching this year, and I really enjoyed the Halo 2 speedrun. If you have the time, I really recommend looking over the VODs on Twitch. No bonus stream? It's not midday yet. It will be noon in about half an hour so then it should be soon after that It just started about a half hour ago. They're playing SSBM now, This was my first time watching this year and I have to say, I am a fan. I knew speedruns were a thing and I've even seen a few but holy crap.. watching them live is something else. Adam AK's Vice City run was probably the best run of the week. His explanations and that fact he took almost 30 minutes off his time from last year was nothing short of amazing.  I really liked this run as well. I liked how they broke the game. "So now we're on 5 missions at the same time while the game think we aren't on a mission. The whole event was amazing. I also heard there would be a bonus stream with Cosmo later today? Anyone got more info on that? https://gamesdonequick.com/faq

&gt;When does Awesome Games Done Quick 2015 take place? Where can I watch AGDQ 2015?

&gt;AGDQ 2015 starts on Sunday, January 4th, 2015 at 12 PM Eastern Standard Time (GMT -5). It runs until the night of January 10th, where estimates put a wrap up time of approximately 2 AM Eastern Standard Time (GMT -5). **Additionally, a much shorter bonus stream will start midday on January 11th.** 

so if that is EST -5 it'd be in about 3 hours from this comment (if I math'd correctly)  The bonus stream is live right now but they're playing Smash. No Cosmo yet. I loved the event last year and felt this year fell a little short. Still a great event, but that Super Metroid run last year was insanely good.  Did you see the Ninja Gaiden relay race? That was the best race they've ever had! Nope, I'll have to check it out though. According to the speech at the end, there was a bug with their tracker that wasn't counting a lot of donations. They said the money was still getting to PCF it just wasn't showing up on the tracker website. They said it will take a week or two to sort it out and prizes will be awarded after that point. So they had probably been over $1m already before adding in the Humble Bundle money at the end. Fuck yeah, pat yourself on the back everyone. Haven't played Duke Nukem 3D yet but I'll get around to it. (Humble Bundle contributor here) That's not what truly matters anyways. My Grandpa recently passed due to cancer so I'm really happy about this. Anyone know how much was raised in previous years? Just interested to see how this amount compares. http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Speed_Demos_Archive#List_of_marathons Thank you! They got 50% more than last AGDQ and double the last SGDQ, I wonder if next year will go over 2 million. was there some big donation coming in during the last 30 minutes or sth? I step out to get some dinner whole it was 920k I think and came back it was 1.1m

good event as every year. the tetris and castlevania race were my favorites.  Like two-hundred K from Humble? Yes, sir!  ah. it was from humble?  Does anyone have a binding of Isaac run link? I missed it and really want to see it.  All the timestamps, yo...

http://www.reddit.com/r/speedrun/comments/2ra5rw/agdq_vods_thread_2015/ I posted this in a different thread, but I think I needs saying again:

&gt;It blows my mind that they have 100% categorically saved people's lives by playing Tetris and Zelda and the Beethoven 2 video game.

After some of the bullshit of the last year, I now feel proud to call myself a gamer. Abso-fucking-loutely beautiful effort by everyone involved from organisation to runners to those that donated  to viewers.  If anyone hasn't watched it yet, I highly recommend the Halo 2 coop run. it was extremely fun to watch and great commentators.  Loved everything about this event, it started out kinda slow but when it started to get rolling man was it a blast! 

Soon the bonus stream will start, which is going to be super fun, and then I have so many runs I need to go back and watch vods of, I think I'm going to be occupied for a few more weeks I laughed way too hard at the idea of a speed running event starting out slow! Fantastic event this year.

I wasn't able to watch for the last 3 days, but the moments that I really enjoyed over the past week was the Boshy run, the Pokemon Blue run, and of course, TASbot.

Looking forward to SGDQ later this year. The Boshy run was awesome! I loved the banter between Witwix and Waffle, probably my favorite run to watch throughout the entire event! This is allways like over a week long Lanparty after xmas and new year! Keep this going forever! Awesome stuff! Are they not doing a post-stream show this year? I always loved the silly stuff they'd get up to while they were killing time as people left the venue. That's amazing! I fell asleep a few minutes before the end of the 100% OoT run and they were at around $920k. Gotta go back and watch how they reached $1.1 million so quickly! Theoretically 1.5 million - could be as low as 1.2 million depending on how many donations the tracker dropped.  Just an estimate at this time. Started out meh, but over all I was pretty happy with agdq. Looking forward to the next one and they can always count on my donations. :) As much as I dislike the whole speed run thing (not my cuppa tea so to speak), I still donated because... well gamers doing good stuff always gets me :) Its originally as it said from an email in response to one person asking how they should achieve a copy in Australia. Its not really an OMG everyone go and pirate my game just to have it as title suggests. Its not-not saying that all people in Aus shouldn't pirate this, but the context isn't quite there. To say that he was "explicitly encouraging people to "pirate" a game" isn't totally true. He told one person directly that he'd be fine with them pirating the game. More than this, it was a direct response to *a guy who really nicely asked if he could send them the money they've lost out on through PayPal*.

This might well have influenced the response - i.e. "That's so kind to offer, thanks. Don't even worry about it, just pirate it!" Escapist reached out to the dev. 

&gt;"If there will be no way other way of acquiring the game in Australia, of course I won't mind if people pirate it," adding that "Money has never been my main objective when creating games."

http://www.escapistmagazine.com/news/view/139495-Hotline-Miami-2-Dev-Encourages-Australians-to-Pirate-The-Game &gt; Eurogamer

You mean The Escapist? Whoops. Wrong E. Don't mix up your E or you could be in for one hell of a surprise. I don't get it Maybe drugs? I don't get it either Yep, I can't believe PC Gamer actually posted this as news. Especially seeing as they stole the story from the subreddit they claim to hate.  I thought it was just the one guy writing an editorial. You are right, I've just lost a lot of respect for PC Gamer over the last couple of days and I've just started treating the whole site as one big dodgy entity. I hate it so, so much. I was an avid reader for 5 years straight, just about every single day. Was so in love with those guys, then one day it's like I caught them hanging out with Buzzfeed and they wouldn't return my calls anymore. Next thing you know, they've caught the clickbait STD and the site is an unreadable mess full of shitty opinions. So I quit hanging out over there, and then now they've got all this drama with the PC Master Race, and sleeping with Ubisoft reps. I'm glad I jumped ship when I did. Nothing wrong with dating a dev, they just need to be open with the COI. In other industries, people's careers go down if they ignore a conflict of interest.  What I hate is that it somehow becomes wrapped up in all this other drama whenever someone tries to bring it up in a legitimate conversation. Can everyone just put everything else aside and agree that if you are writing an article about Ubisoft or their games while dating a Ubisoft employee, you should at the very least *let us know*? It's a little ridiculous. Nobody in the world disagrees with that, but you need to also realize that the entire debacle is now completely wrapped up with the threats of violence and rape.

So any random person you speak to about it (who actually knows the background) is going to barely care about the legitimate complaint that started it all (because in the grand scheme of things, to most people, gaming journalism doesn't *matter*), while knowing with every fiber of their being that threatening people with violence, rape and death is just really something that is not done.

The entire conversation has been successfully stopped in it's tracks, and you will never be able to get it going again.  It sucks, but that's the reality.  Unfortunately, if we want to actually bring the issue to the public eye in *any way*, we need to wait for something similar to happen again.  The original events surrounding GamerGate are tainted, forever.  Trying to bring them up while ignoring the rest of the controversy will never work - the entire argument is undermined before you've even made it. That's what fucking gets me about it. The entire conversation of journalism ethics is surrounded by drama, when hey, what do you know, it just so happens to be a genuinely important issue that has plagued games journalism for ages that nobody can talk about anymore.

It's just so frustrating. For once there was a genuine opportunity to have a discussion about a number of serious issues in games journalism, and it turned into this. One step forward, two steps back for everyone. And it was those who want to keep the status quo who created all the drama in an effort to stifle discussion.

Imagine that. I agree 100%, it's total bs. But such is life.  She's not a developer. She works for Ubiblog which is essentially just a gaming website that exclusively covers Ubisoft stuff. Wow that's kind of silly. One article doesn't mean they're full of shitty opinions you know. They still have a lot of good stuff that other sites don't really write about, for example their CS: GO analysis stuff, or mods of the week. I also like the PC hardware related stuff. 

I think you're overreacting a good amount.  Most of my discontent stems from the new site layout. It's just too much shit to try and sift through. The old site fed you articles one at a time, with a title, image, and the first paragraph. You knew what you were getting into before having to dive all the way in. It was a pleasant experience. It's such a mess now, I don't even know where to start when I get there. Whoa now, what happened? My understanding is one of the editors wrote something against the whole PC MASTER RACE meme and the internet freaked out. People then dug and discovered he is dating someone that works at Ubisoft that I guess he didn't disclose well in things he's written about their games, although he's never actually reviewed an Ubisoft game so it really doesn't seem like a big deal. Something along those lines - I'm tired of actually trying to follow this sort of shit.

Just people looking for gamergate drama as far as I can tell.

EDIT: I should add that I think he should have disclosed the relationship, even if only writing opinion pieces. Still, it hardly seems like an incident worth damning an entire site for corruption, which is the conclusion many have jumped to. &gt;  Still, it hardly seems like an incident worth damning an entire site for corruption, which is the conclusion many have jumped to.

Agreed, I am a member of pcmr and I don't really give a shit about some journalist's opinion. I have been reading PC Gamer magazine since I was in high school (1998) and it's still my favorite gaming magazine, although I opt for the Ipad subscription instead of paper as I get tired of them things cluttering up the place. I have always liked their reviews, previews, and gaming pc information. He may not have written any pieces about Ubisoft games, but I'm pretty sure he did a couple pieces about great art in games and was quoted as saying something to the effect of "Ubisoft just seems to do stuff better." Yeah, but your comment still blows the whole thing out of proportion, to be fair. They don't "claim to hate" us, one editorial said we should stop using the name we do. I don't agree, but I'm not gonna exaggerate what he meant, either. [deleted] If they publish it they stand for it, else they can chose to not publish it to their website No editorial journalist wants to work for a company that heavily censors people's opinions and forces changes to their writing, but you're making a good case for doing so. If a editor in chief feels their readership understands that articles published by individuals are the individuals opinion then they give writers more creative freedom and **you end up with better stories to read.** In this case the audience doesn't make that distinction and now everyone thinks all of the pcgamer staff from the head of company to the janitor hates 'pc master race'.

I do agree that if too many of the same stories pile up and a clear tone/ slant develops then you can make those kind of statements, but it doesn't seem like that was the case here? Are there examples of similar stories from before? can't say i read it much myself these days. It's generally understood that opinion pieces represent only the views of the author and not necessarily the entire company.  &gt; It's generally understood

Apparently that isn't the case, since everyone is generalizing to the whole company now. It would be fair to say "It's generally understood amongst people who read news articles." Should've clarified: "by people who have a basic understanding of how journalism works". I think a lot of the people commenting like the guy above need absolute clarification, so they can exaggerate and misinterpret what you say anyways. And at least one other senior mod/editor defending the remarks/insults in calling people fascists... ehm, excuse me, "like" fascists.

edit:  
 /u/Piemonkey's response to mine completely ignores the term to which this arrow points ^ Okay, there are three comments saying that PC Gamer called the whole master race thing Nazis. So I went and looked. This is what the editorial actually says:

&gt;I obviously realize that no one is actually saying that PC gamers are the preferred people of Hitler. Thats absurd, and its supposed to be absurd. Its a joke.

It doesn't seem like he's saying they're Nazis. It seems like he's saying *the complete opposite*.

What is it with so many people in this hobby and trying to make themselves out into being the victims? When you have to blatantly lie about something to make the person you disagree with seem wrong, you should take a step back and reexamine your point of view.

And if you adopt an infamous Nazi ideology/terminology for the name your subculture, you'd have to be a complete moron not to realize that you're going to attract that reference. *Especially* if you did it ironically. You chose to make that reference yourselves in adopting it, now you're getting angry when someone else points it out? It's basically like going around wearing a shirt that says "YOU CAN'T TAKE THE SKY FROM ME" because you're a pilot and then getting angry when people ask if you like Firefly. [deleted] I'm with you on this one. I don't care as much about whether it's the PC Master Race or anything else, but everyone seemed to look at the title of the article and immediately blow their stack. Compared to what a lot of other journalists would have written, it was honestly pretty tame.

Not to mention it's hardly the first time someone has invited the comparison. [deleted] That's what one cherrypicked line says. Why do you think that editorial exists? Read the article. Because apparently nobody else did.

Let's start with "cherrypicking". I picked out one line in the article that best summarizes my point that the writer never called the PCMR group Nazis. If that's cherrypicked, then what are the other parts of the article that prove the opposite? How did I pull one statement out of context to change the meaning of the entire editorial? Point out exactly where he calls people that identify themselves as being part of the PCMR Nazis. If you read the article, you'll only find more of him specifically *not* doing that:

&gt;It began as a joke from Ben Yahtzee Croshaw, who was mocking our elitist attitude with the internets favorite analogy: the Nazi analogy.

&gt; It worked as a hyperbolic joke when it was first said as a hyperbolic joke, and I did think it was a little funny to embrace the criticism ironicallyfor a moment. 

&gt;When I see kids unironically boasting about their master race affiliation on forums, I cringe. And if you have to explain that your community isnt about racial supremacy (rule #7 on the sidebar of the PC Master Race subreddit), then maybe youve chosen a poor name for your community.

&gt;Id be mortified if my friends and family thought I were part of something called the PC Master Race. They dont get the context, and even if I explained it to them, a half-forgotten seven-year-old internet joke doesnt expunge the historical meaning from the phrase, which refers to the Aryan race, which is a term still used by people with swastika tattoos.

&gt; Its in jest, but it hardly feels inviting, and for what? 

&gt;When we finally move on, we can still smirk at 790p Xbox One gameswe just wont have to remind everyone of white supremacists when we do.

All these portions from the article *not* equating PCMR with Nazis. He clearly recognizes that it was a term borne out of a hyperbolic joke. And at the end he even caps off with saying that he's one of them but just hates the name.

That's the answer to your second question, which should have been answered by the first few lines of the editorial: he's tired of the joke and feels the name is pretty stupid. That's it. And yet here's a community rising up to blatantly *lie* about what was said in order to portray themselves as victims because they're so upset about *one person's* opinion. And that's not even going into the whole mindset of this group of people getting upset that someone doesn't like them going around using a bunch of Nazi concepts. 

It's mindboggling that they didn't expect someone to eventually say "Hey, you're going a bit far with this joke". You're fighting the good fight. I wish there were more people on gaming subreddits like you who actually take the time to read the damn article instead of reading the headline and then screaming their head off about censorship as if it was some command instead of one dude's opinion. Claim to hate is not a sentiment born out by the facts. They made the entirely reasonable point that the subreddit name is A.) stupid B.) loaded with baggage and C.) lends itself to perpetuating the worst aspects of gaming culture. Which isn't controversial in the slightest. They whole-heartedly throw in with the ideals behind the sub, that the PC is the superior gaming platform. The whole subreddit name was supposed to be satire since it was initially used to mock PC gamers. Nowadays too many people drank their own koolaids and are actually taking it seriously. Pretty much.Also they had the nerve to credit Polygon for this fuck them.

[Here's the actual image](http://i.imgur.com/14r8iRp.png?1) .(I took the liberty of blurring OP's info since I don't want to fall into shit since he more or less trusted the *"Nazi"* sub and may be on the fence on it being shown here)

Edit:Forgot to actually put the image so here it is. It's almost as if... oh hang on, only reddit is protected from sweeping generalizations. I forgot. He said the same thing to media in the past about the first game. In fact, he would go on pirate bay and make sure that the patched version worked right cause he wanted everyone to get a good experience from his game. Looks like hes doing the same thing here for the aussies under the government heel. Well I didn't know that, and those facts should be presented. I'm not saying it, isn't possible a statement like this is made, but in its current form the article is way over-reaching. &gt; Its not really an OMG everyone go and pirate my game just to have it as title suggests.

considering that one of the devs helped out people pirating the first game and running it properly, I'd bet that he will be OK if every aussie pirates the game. &gt; not-not saying that all people in Aus shouldn't pirate this

Im trying to understand this sentence, but my mind just keeps exploding.

Note: I study mathematics at a university... It's not **not** a not well written sentence, but I'm not going to not complain about how he shouldn't not construct sentences that aren't as not uneasy to read. Exactly. Saw this on Facebook with a bunch of Aussies getting afterwards towards other countries, too. "Anyone that can support, should. This is AU only! Don't be an asshole!"

I agree about supporting but anyone in AU can literally do the same thing the guy did and ask how to instead of pretending he meant millions of people. You can donate, email Humble to make a bundle with it, Steam and a VPN, have a friend get you a copy, etc 

As soon as I saw the initial email, though, I knew journalists would fuck it up.  I completely resent title / article misalignments but I think this is quite an innocent one as far as they go. Is it not fair to assume that he'd say the same to all Australian customers?  They should have asked the developer to comment on the email/situation. You know following up on a lead like you usually do when reporting something.  Hi!

OP of the email here. If you are Australian and decide to pirate this game, make sure you support the developers in another way. If you don't own the first game yet, go and pick it up.

Cheers! I'm going to buy the shit out of hotline miami 2 You could always download the game then send them money through reddit :)
/u/changetip 1 beer If I was to release a product I would say the same.  I rather support people downloading my product and using it due to forces outside of their control (government restrictions).

This isn't IMO up to any government to control.  All the government should do is classify the game, not restrict its sale.

The developer should setup a donation page for those that want to pay for it, but still pirate it. Well, it also helps illustrate how useless such laws are in the 21st Century with digital distribution.  Any Aussie who wants to play the game CAN play it.  Australia is just denying themselves the sales tax and the additional local business.

It's fundamentally no different than those idiotic tiny farm towns in the US South that still insist on staying "dry" even though there's a giant liquor store ten miles away at the county line that everyone in town visits.

Although I sort of liked the South Park: tSoT approach of the crying koala telling you about all the content you're missing due to the government being dicks.  I got to play the game uncut, but those sounded like they'd be nearly as amusing as the actual scenes. &gt; South Park: tSoT approach

I only know the German version (so no Koala there :( ) but it definitely wasn't as good as the international, uncensored game. It was kind of funny at first, but the censorment got old quickly. &gt;It was kind of funny at first, but the censorment got old quickly.

I think that was the point. I just don't understand Germany's censorship of Nazi related symbols. No historical action should be so taboo that you can't even write or make a game/movie about it, especially if it's your own history. This shit happened, we should be able to talk about it, be serious and sincere about it, and ultimately joke about it.
"Those who cannot remember the past are condemned to repeat it"
-George Santayana Disclaimer: I'm not a historian.

I believe it's a law that dates back to the end of the second world war. The Allies wanted Germany back up and running fast, and that meant working with the existing bureaucratic structures instead of tearing it all down and rebuilding it from the ground up. But the existing bureaucracy was still full of Nazis. The worst ones were incarcerated, but the remainder still had every kind of Nazi, from the "I never supported the Nazis but I had to join the party to keep my job so I could support my family" type to the die-hard ideologue. The solution was to basically say: "We hereby declare that you are all no longer Nazis. If you agree with this, act like it and never give us reason to doubt it. If you disagree, we have a nice prison cell for you." In conjunction with this, Nazi symbols were banned along with the expression of Nazi sentiments.

Today these laws persist simply because they were never repealed. I agree that they are outdated, but who's going to lead the push to have them abolished? A campaign that your opponents can strawman into "let's make Nazis legal" is poison for a politician's career. As a German hobby historian who had the 3rd Reich in A-levels, you're right. This isn't the reason though, since the expression of nazi symbols technically is allowed in artistic expression like movies or stage plays. No German film about that time was prohibited from actually showing swastikas. 

The banning of symbols/phrases for games exists due to the assumption that games will use it to promote nazi views. There actually were several garage developers who happened to be neonazis and cater to their demographic back in the day, so the BPjM had a lot of neonazi games in their offices in the 80s/90s. Considering that games are still imagined as being accessible to children, they decided to ban any game with swastikas in them at that time. That was also in the time where a game got blacklisted because it was a cold war strategy game and it "promoted war as a valid solution". 

Luckily the institution as a whole got a lot more sane since then, so I guess when the last of the first generation have left the BPjM, they'll eventually stop caring. This is really annoying for people like me that love flight sims and other historical games.

All they do is replace the swastika with an X or for  weird dashes (take the swastika and remove the X)

Meanwhile, the Soviet red star is allowed, when they killed just as many people and did horrific things as they advanced on Berlin.

Then you have the Italians, the Japanese war symbols (like the rising sun), other axis symbology...

History and politics are fucked up. I mean, I don't think the point is the symbol representing a violent group, it's that the symbol represents a group that has a strong tire to the country and whose propaganda they wanted to eliminate. They weren't worried about Germans wanting to resurrect the Hirohito empire, and they sure as hell weren't worried about Germans wanting to empower the Soviets.  Every time I hear about laws like this were repealing them would just rub off poorly on the PM, I just wonder if they could do a big "Repealing outdated laws charter" and list all outdated laws so as not to seem like they are trying to encourage Nazism. "We looked through the charter and guess what we found hidden on page nine!"  
"That wasn't hidden, it was ju-.."  
"ACurlyCube wants to make nazism legal!"  
"Bu-.."  
"ACurlyCube is a nazi!" They did this in the 60s or 70s, but the anti-nazi propaganda laws weren't touched. To be fair, it isn't that bad. The justice system isn't using these laws to suppress opinions (except, of course, when it's actual nazism) like other countries would do. I concur!

But it's really only about games. Movies are okay, because they are considered art... Also there is lots of education about it, so I don't think (hope!) we are condemned to repeat it. When I was in school it sometimes felt like the second world war was the only topic we had in history. Heck, even in the US, in our grade/high school history classes, it's like the only 4 things that ever happened were the revolutionary war,  civil war, and the world wars... Not even the Romans? In Britain it's The Vikings, The Romans, World War 2 and maybe the Tudors. Or it was when I went through school at least. That is highly dependent on where you go to school in the US -- there's very little uniformity.

For my own anecdote, my high school history classes covered a lot of US history, in their own focused classes, along with a broad swath of western (highly Euro-centric) history. The Greeks, Romans, 100 Years War, Crusades, protestant reformation, industrial revolution, German unification, Italian unification, WW1 and WW2 were all covered to some extent. And probably a bunch of other stuff I forgot I learned in class. In my rinky dink little Midwestern town (my graduating class was 14) we learned about a lot more than those 4. Peloponnesian wars, Alexander, Romans, Mongols, civil war, the Chinese civil war where that guy said he was Jesus brother, French and Indian, 1812, both world wars, Korea, Vietnam. But the only ones that got longer than 2-3 paragraphs were the civil war, revolutionary, and the world wars.   World wars? We only talked about the sequel  at my school. It was terrible. For me it filled the entirety of grades six, nine, ten, eleven and thirteen. And not once did we actually look at the war itself, just at everything leading up to it and the time until 1949.  What all was censored? I imagine the game just being a black screen.  The swastikas and salutes of the nazi zombies mostly. Also the voices of the zombies were changed from snippets of speeches by Hitler etc to stereotypical german accent nonsense. In Australia it was the rape/sex without consent scenes. Regardless of the fact it was Aliens anally probing Randy in a spaceship. In a cartoon video game. The government said no. 

It's really fucking stupid. I can watch rape in a movie.. In a theatre.. But I can't watch a cartoon cutscene where aliens probe a man? Haha it's ridic.  I think you can actually activate the anal probe. Which I did. I guess I'm a rapist now? Totally ridic. No wonder Yahtzee always laments the state of Australian gaming.  &gt;It's fundamentally no different than those idiotic tiny farm towns in the US South that still insist on staying "dry" even though there's a giant liquor store ten miles away at the county line that everyone in town visits.

That's a thing? I've never heard of that and I've lived in the U.S. all my life. Hilarious. It's generally done by the county. Oddly enough, the Jack Daniels distillery is in a dry county. Cheap out on the gift store. All counties in Tennessee are dry by default, and have to vote to become wet. If I'm not mistaken, the votes require a numerical threshold to be passed in order to be valid. Not all counties have enough people to pass that threshold, and so they have to stay dry. [deleted] My bad, I got my information slightly mixed up. It isn't the vote per say, but rather no liquor licences will be granted to any establishment within a municipality with less than 100,000 people. Though that is the 2010 code, and apparently it was *raised* to 120,000 in 2014, but I can't find a good source for that. 

Also, I feel like maybe I'm a bit tired and not reading the awful legal language correctly because 100,000 is a shitload of people and most of Tennessee isn't densely populated enough to work like that.

But, if I am right it means you can have the vote to become a wet city/county, but if you don't have enough people the state government will just reject any applications for liquor licenses. I feel like this is probably worse than what I originally stated.

[Source](http://law.justia.com/codes/tennessee/2010/title-57/chapter-3/part-2/57-3-203/) (see section (i) )

Edit: Also, a little annoyed it took half an hour to find that. Google needs to up their game on vague searches for legislation. [deleted] Yep. Town of 1300 in the Midwest just became "wet" 6 years ago. The mayor went door to door over it because he wanted to be able to walk to get some beer. Out of 800 or so adults they got 650 signatures. Crazy.  sounds like a mayor the town needed Yep, I live in one. Beer is still sold and we still have bars with hard liquor sales, but in order to buy it for yourself (or otherwise walk off the premises) .. Next county over is about fifteen minutes.  &gt; idiotic tiny farm towns in the US South that still insist on staying "dry" even though there's a giant liquor store ten miles away at the county line that everyone in town visits.

Ugh, I'm from one of those towns (moved there in the 4th grade) and it's like the land time forgot. Nothing but Baptist and Pentecostal churches like every mile. Most of the people drink, but when it comes to passing a bill allowing alcohol to be sold in the county, the hypocrites get all up in arms about "the devil!". They rally the troops and have all the 70+ year olds show up and vote against it. So, the county next door gets all the business from alcohol sales.

I promptly escaped upon graduation and now I live in a place where I can go to Total Wine and drop $150 on fine German beers... like I did a few days ago. What's the difference between Catholics and Baptists?

Catholics say hi to each other at the liquor store. &gt; Australia is just denying themselves the sales tax and the additional local business.
  
They wouldn't receive any money anyway, overseas imports under $1,000 AUD aren't taxed.
 [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] Really?  Not even via local sales taxes or anything like that?

I mean, I even pay a small sales tax on some digital purchases (like in Nintendo's eShop) based on my listed state of residence.  I just assumed there'd be something like that in Australia too.
   We don't have local sales taxes, all states receive the proceeds of a Goods and Sales Tax (GST) that is levied nationally and is priced into the displayed price on all items.
  
So if an Australian says they went to a local shop and purchased a game for $100, that means the item costs $90.91 and the tax on top is $9.09.
  
There are a few things that aren't taxed, such as basic foods, etc.
  
But imports under $1,000 are not taxed at all (unless it's cigarettes or alcohol or something like that).
  
In terms of local businesses, I think a brick and mortar store for videogames is a waste of capital and labour, and society would be better served if they had more useful jobs. &gt;In terms of local businesses, I think a brick and mortar store for videogames is a waste of capital and labour, and society would be better served if they had more useful jobs.

OK, that's as may be, but those are still their livelihoods as things stand.  If they were making more money, that would become more money *they're* spending in the local economy.  Or, if they suddenly went out of business, what about all the other businesses who'd relied on their patronage?  They lose out too.   

It's silly to deny them sales based on a moralistic law that can be subverted by anyone whose mental age is above 10.  That's harming the entire community, more or less, even if we aren't talking huge sums of money here.   &gt; It's silly to deny them sales based on a moralistic law that can be subverted by anyone whose mental age is above 10.

No one with a mental age above 10 is buying from a physical shop in Australia anyway.

For those downvoting, no I'm serious, I and everyone I know stopped buying games from physical stores around that age and that was back when it was much harder to get games off the net, steam wasn't a thing back then. Now you've got stuff like GMG, steam, ozgameshop, ebay, amazon, GOG etc, you're spoilt for choice. If you think anyone sane is buying games from physical shops in Australia you haven't seen the price disparity. &gt; It's fundamentally no different than those idiotic tiny farm towns in the US South that still insist on staying "dry" even though there's a giant liquor store ten miles away at the county line that everyone in town visits.

Though I think now this has more to do with keeping out certain types of people, than stopping drinking. e.g. homeless people, the poors, and others whom they assume love to drink but might lack the means to drive 10 miles. Nope. I live in one of those southern towns where we can literally walk 30 minutes to a liquor store and the county is still dry. We had a vote to go wet back a couple years ago and the biggest argument against it was they didn't want people drinking and they didn't want bars being built in town. The homeless people are not coming here when the bigger town next to us has more people to beg off of. Everyone here is poor anyways. And people still drink, just now they have to drive to go get more rather than being able to go to gas station locally to get some. It's a faux dream where we live in this little bubble that has no outside effects from the outside world. &gt; The developer should setup a donation page for those that want to pay for it, but still pirate it.

100%. I loved the first game and I really want to support the developer. You can always buy the soundtrack too. Is there a way for Australians to buy the game over the internet somewhere instead? Assuming no censorship/issues. I'm sure it will be on GoG or GMG or some other key reselling site. I know for a fact as a New Zealander that I was able to activate my code for Risen on Steam despite that game being banned here (for weed references apparently despite us being a country of fucking potheads) and not available in the Steam store.  I was just thinking the other day if steam would let you activate a CD-Key for a banned game. Maybe I'll buy it off a reseller and try that, although most of the money goes to the reseller, not the dev team. I'd imagine not. Steam plays ball with region locking, and they ban use of VPNs as a workaround. I think that can get them in trouble with the law. This boys and girls is why freedom of speech is important. Even if it doesn't reflect directly onto limiting what games are released, it is a slippery slope when you start doing something like this. I like it when people say racist or shitty things and tout they can because free speech. It's weeded out quite a few people in my social group. &gt; The developer should setup a donation page for those that want to pay for it

IIRC accepting donations creates a complicated tax situation that's probably not worth the trouble. They could create an alternative version of the game that's legal to sell in Australia, and then "accidentally leak" a crack that restores the censored content... Ahh, the [Carmageddon approach](http://www.carmageddon.com/comment/14674#comment-14674) They could use bitcoin and publish a completely unofficial donation, well, not a page, but address to a bitcoin wallet that floats around internet somewhere. If it's completely unofficial, how would anyone know it is legit? Wait, don't they have steam? Or is it not being sold on steam either? If it's unrated it'll be illegal to sell on steam too (in Australia). You should still be able to activate it on steam, right? There are websites where you can purchase it from like a US steam region, and then activate the key in your Australian version as a gift. The way I understand it though, the government isn't restricting it's sale though. They refused to classify it, but it's retailers who have decided not to even try to sell unrated games. It's kind of silly but they don't want to be seen as something akin to an adult store. The government didn't ban the game or anything though. 

Edit: It seems I was wrong and you can't legally import an unclassified game. That's bullshit. The Classification Board does not directly censor material by ordering cuts or changes. **However, they are able to effectively censor media by refusing classification and making the media illegal for hire, exhibition and importation to Australia.** The Attorney-General's Department now provides administrative support to the Board and decisions made by the Board may be reviewed by the Australian Classification Review Board.

[source](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Australian_Classification_Board) I'm not 100% but I don't think that's right. I don't think we can legally be sold games or movies without classification.

As far as I'm aware, that's the reason some Australian online stores are different from the US stores. Example, the Xbox Live store in Aus never had an 'Indie' section like the US store did because the indie games aren't rated.
 Surely not every game/movie sold has to be rated, that would mean every paid game on the App Store/Play Store would have to be rated. Unclassified (never submitted to the board) - kinda. Refused Classification - illegal to import. I don't even think the Government should be able to classify games.  In the US they don't, it's self regulated just like with movies and other form of entertainment.  Government should not be involved with rating entertainment. I recommend watching the documentary This Film is Not Yet Rated. Long story short, all being self-regulating means is that the review board doesn't have to answer to anyone or explain themselves in any way, while wielding a massive power to censor films (when was the last time you saw NC-17 rated films in mainstream theaters) Meanwhile the shelves of Wal-Mart is stocked with Unrated version's of movies. NC-17 not being shown has as much to do with limiting your audience as it does with theatres being prudes. Same reason action movies that used to be R are being toned down to PG-13, gets more butts in the seats. In the USA, at least, most retailers refuse to sell a game rated AO. 

Same with movie theaters. 

How do you feel about the MPAA (a private institution) making ratings that are so bad that most people can't see the films? That is, 99% of movie theaters (other private institutions) will refuse to show the film?

Is it okay when private entities restrict the sale of these things? &gt; Is it okay when private entities restrict the sale of these things?

Yes thats ok, its a private business. Private institutions can do whatever they want so long as they aren't infringing on your rights.  Refusing to sell you a ticket to a movie or refusing to sell you a game does not infringe on your rights. The dev said that to the person in the e-mail to 'just pirate it'. He didn't say 'every Australian' can pirate it. If he did it would in some sort of dev blog. 

Bullshit journalism here. Misinterpreting quotes and twisting the context of said email. That's why I take gaming journalism with a grain of salt everyday.   They accurately explain this in the article, and back it up with statement from the publisher's PR department.  Gaming journalism has had a bad run lately but I don't see anything wrong with this article.  No they say that the initial email exchange was authentic and that he makes accordances like that previously. They didn't back up that everyone in Aus should pirate it and was a *publicly* released statement. &gt;"If there will be no way other way of acquiring the game in Australia, of course I won't mind if people pirate it," adding that "Money has never been my main objective when creating games."

From http://www.escapistmagazine.com/news/view/139495-Hotline-Miami-2-Dev-Encourages-Australians-to-Pirate-The-Game

Credit to this post earlier in the thread [here](http://www.reddit.com/r/Games/comments/2slpvu/hotline_miami_2_developer_to_censored_australians/cnqx39c) The material of the article is good, but the title is misleading at best. At the same time though, [he supported people torrenting the first Hotline Miami.](http://www.polygon.com/2012/10/30/3577726/hotline-miami-developer-the-pirate-bay-torrent)

He doesn't really want people pirating his game, but I think if any Australian emails him he'll suggest the same thing. What would it matter if every Australian pirated it anyway? It's illegal to sell in Australia now.

**Gain from Australians not pirating:**

 * Nothing


**Gain from Australians pirating:**

 * Marketing
 * Reputation
 * More likely to purchase previous games
 * More likely to purchase future games What effect would everyone in Australia pirating the game have on sales? The game can't be sold there. You're linking to a magazine that wrote an article based on a reddit post... on reddit? So does this ban mean that the devs cannot even sell their game through their own website? Like true, real censorship? Do they risk fines or something like that for taking orders? Something I don't understand: There are heaps of games released digitally on steam every day. As far as I can tell not all of these are reviewed and classified, maybe I'm wrong. What makes these games different? In Australia, all games released here must be rated by the Australian Classification Board. If not, they cannot be legally sold. From my understanding, in the US, there is no authority or law that legally governs this, but most publishers will have the ESRB rate their games, although it is not mandatory. This is due to them being somewhat standard, and some people (e.g. parents) won't buy a game without knowing a rating.

This second part might be total shit, but I'm not sure; I can't really find anything on this, so maybe someone more versed in these issues could help me here: I'm from Australia and I've also noticed unrated titles being sold on the Steam Store here. I've heard before that because when we buy from the Steam Store, due to the price being in USD, it's technically an import, and not actually sold here. This may be how they get away with it. Regarding this though, if this is true, I'm not sure why they would then sell the alternative versions on Steam; it might have to do with consistency with physical copies and taking away sales from physical stores and the publisher getting mad (because hey, who is going to a buy a censored copy when the uncensored one is as easily available?)

Edit: I just remembered that importing RC material is illegal here, so that would explain that. Couldn't find anything on importing unrated material though, so that one's still up for debate.  Do they censor the shit out of your television too?  I mean it says the game was rejected because of an "implied" rape scene.  Can they even air Law and Order SVU down there?  I mean half of what I see on US tv is at least more rapey than every game I've ever played. Games are held to a different standard than TV, or films, or even books or music. The Classification Board has to work within the laws that were passed by the Federal Parliament.

SVU airs regularly here and I don't think that it's been censored. The difference is that in banned games, the "children" (yes even games rated for adults)playing the game are the ones doing the raping/killing/drug taking and we can't have that. In movies, it's the bad guy doing those things, the context is different. Any idea why we can get Postal and Postal 2 on Steam? I thought they were banned here and afak were never resubmitted/classified. Are they simply sold illegally? i played a pirated version of hotline miami, and about 15 minutes later i deleted it and bought the full thing. bought 5 other copies to give out since then. love these devs and their games. The Hotline Miami dev even encouraged the torrenters on the Pirate Bay to update their torrent with the latest game patch, to ensure everyone got the best experience.

http://www.eurogamer.net/articles/2012-10-26-hotline-miami-creator-helps-pirates-play-his-game I did the same thing, actually. Everybody that I've given it to has had nothing but praise for the game. I did the same thing expect I bought it after finishing it.  I'm Australian and i wouldn't even want to pirate it, since i'm not into top down shooters, but good on the devs for saying that.

I used to pirate a lot of games when i was younger (computer swap meets copying amiga floppies) now that i have a job and appreciate the games industry i pay for all my games to support the great work devs do. Hotline Miami isn't really a shooter. It's a stealth game where you have to watch enemy movement and plan takedowns. If you go in guns blazing you die instantly. I thought it was rather fun. I'd like to dispute the notion of Hotline Miami being a *stealth* game. The only stealthy bits are the bits where you're planning ahead, learning guard patterns and such. After that it's a mad dash to murder as many enemies as possible, no? That's funny, I got downvoted for saying I would do just that. I'm 35 years old for fuck sake, my government does not get to decide what I play. Is there any way to get the devs my cash after I've pirated it? Buy it from Amazon and send it to the developers P.O Box with a nice little note letting them know that you appreciate their hard work and wanted to make sure you paid for the game.

At least that's what I'll be doing. We have a winner. This is what I'll be doing. Thanks. If you're super committed to that idea, find a foreign friend you trust in a country that can buy it, wire them the money and just have them buy and subsequently give away the copy  The issue with this is whether or not Steam is going for the 'regional lock' approach like they did with South Park, in which even a US-Steam code wont give us the uncensored game/wont work. If however they do it normally, then yes, ill be looking for an american to trade keys with for the game. I loved Hotline Miami, played it for hours and got all the steam achievements. It even got me in M|O|O|N and further into that entire music genre.  No. No, no, no, no, no. Stop supporting these stupid bullshit sites ripping off subreddits for news and exhibiting nothing even close to rigorous standards of journalism. This is seriously one step away from clickbait, except even buzzfeed steals from semi-reliable sources. And this is after stating they dislike said subreddit a day before the article. Is this some inside joke? I keep seeing *a sub they hate*, but I still don't know which one it is. A PC Gamer writer wrote an article about how he is tired of the "Master Race" stuff and "PC Master Race" people got upset.  I'm sad because I like Arstechnica for their Android-related news. :( They post some really high quality material, but stuff like this makes me want to avoid them. [deleted] He needs to loudly state to the government of Australia that they will not keep his game out of their country. And rename the game to "Hotline Miami 2: Banned in Australia Edition" What about a bonus level where the Aussie ratings board building/offices is the setting. In this day and age, that would probably be classed as conspiracy to commit murder or something insane.

Edit - Added a word. Oh crap, so we're not going through with the murder? Damn. Awww, but I already bought a mask. Incoming ABC News interview "Have video games gone too far?"  ABC? The guys with the mainstream gaming TV show? Nah, it'd be on A Current Affair or whatever haha. Let's try not to get it banned in Germany, too. Just import it. As much as im all for the "Fuck Aussies Censorship" bandwagon, that would be in poor taste. Regular, ordinary people do work there. I would feel incredibly uncomfortable if I were in their shoes and that were to happen.  Make a version called Hotline Brisbane, where all the masks are replaced with Tony Abbott masks. I pirated the shit out of Duke Nukem 3D when it was released as the Australian version was heavily censored. 

I mean, really, what's the point of that? Its like playing Forza with a speed limit forcing highway speeds. 

Anyway, years later I've bought it multiple times now that its uncensored.  &gt;heavily censored

You mean how they just made the strippers invisible? They were still there and you could still shoot them (making monsters appear in 99% of the levels), but that's all they did, as far as I can remember. It removed some of the gore and some of the one liners/voiceover as well. God I love the modern world.

"So, you have two options. You can allow us to get it legally, or we'll just steal it anyway."

I love how we've gotten to a point where we can just circumvent stupid rules and laws with little to no consequences. I guarantee that more Australians will now play this game than would have if it had been given an R18 rating and sold legally.  This is an excellent slap in the face to Australian censors. how is this even a thing? Aren't Australian games supposed to be able to have "R" ratings now? Yes, that's the issue. &gt; However, we at The Escapist do not approve of software piracy in any shape or form, as it is still an illegal act.

lolwtf?

It's not really piracy if the dev supports it. It's like someone saying my car was stolen if I lent it to a friend in need. Except I'v got an infinite number of cars too. Or maybe, instead of huddling all around steam, developers could try to distribute their games through alternative shops that don't enforce bullshit regulations of foreign governments.

http://www.shacknews.com/article/68393/witcher-2-aussie-censorship-dodged

Hotline miami 1 is on gog, so there is a good chance. They should make a censored version and release an unofficial "patch" that removes the censorship.  

Either via torrent or whatnot. 

Perhaps even charge half price in Aussie-town for the game.  When the hell is Australia going to just let their citizens do what they want? They're fucking adults they can handle violent video games. It's not the governments job to censor shit. Not like anybody is going to see that but he said this to 1 specific person that asked and did not say that the whole of australia should pirate it This is pretty much the only case where I agree with pirating something--when it just straight up is not available in your country. Even when I think it's classy to ask, if my government doesn't allow me to buy some digital content I will probably pirate it myself if I want to. Fellow Aussies, if you pirate Hotline Miami 2, make sure to buy the first game for a friend or find some way to donate to the developers. Support the people who make the games you love playing.  Out of curiosity, what's stopping a dev/publisher/whatever, from having an online shop, selling their games, and simply not checking locations at all? (You give us CC/paypal/btc, we put download link on account. No region/location checking.) IANAL but if you sell a product you have to pay taxes and be in conformity with the laws of the country the product is going to, so just opening a shop and selling whatever you want is illegal. You can't just "not check location". I'm not sure about cryptocurrency since it's not regulated in any way anywhere as far as I know, so that's probably not illegal (at least for the time being). Why read these garbage gaming sites if they're just going to lift all their "news" off of reddit? This story originated on reddit with an email screenshot. Has it been verified at all? I love that they dropped the game, released a 5g update the week it launched, and then nothing. Because that game was goddamn polished to shine. No DLC, no updates to fix more bugs...this is how you release a game. 

I'm just not sure I can wait another five years for a sequel. I need to know what happens! I also want to see the Spindly Torque again. I started replaying it this week and you know what? It is just as fun the second time through.The New Order is definitely my favorite shooter of the year and quite possibly my favorite in all of 2014.Machine games did a great job at giving B.J. a solid narrative without making it seem out of place or stretching. The story fit the character and setting.For as simple as the mechanics are, there is a lot of detail and depth in the game. Each stage looks and feels differently. I really wish we would see more single player experiences like this. I was absolutely stunned that they gave him character, and then expanded on it. By midway through the game, I genuinely gave a damn about him, as well as the other characters. There's nothing better than feeling like you know a character who has only been on screen for a few minutes. Too many games try this by simply having bad things happen to them, try and make us care but not giving us anything to care about. Personality goes a looong way, especially unique ones. The only issue I had with BJ, was the fact that he became paralyzed for what? 6 years? And then one day he's good to go! Stabs the guy in the face, get's up, running around just fine? Muscle loss? nahhh! 6 years, preserving his gainz was apparently what he was doing. I personally like to believe that he was some kind of Nazi supersoldier gone rouge, who forgot his origins. Hence his aryan appearance and nigh invulnerability. I thought that was what they were hinting at with all the reference to his aryaness, especially how Totenkopf immediately took to him in almost twisted fatherly sense. I really want to see more of that universe.  The first part where you had to choose someone to die he went "you! I remember you!" or something along those lines does strike a bell. He's referring to the previous game, where BJ blew up Deathshead's blimp. Oops. I've only played the new order thanks to Steam sale. I should really play the rest! You weren't missing much, but that's why his face is all fucked up. He got all scarred and disfigured from his misadventures with B.J.

The previous "Wolfenstein" plays off basically the "Return to Castle Wolfenstein" setup. It's all paranormal and full of occult nazi shit. That stuff was interesting at first, but between the games that have covered it and the fact that our real life Hitler was pretty obsessed with the stuff behind closed doors made it kind of old. Not because he thought it would bring him power, but he seemed to be into collecting bits of history from around the world.

The metallic super soldiers and genetically engineered war machines were a nice touch. These were also things that Hitler was crazy for. His mentality in war was "bigger is better." and he was very into pushing the boundaries of science to his engineers develop better weapons, so this kind of alternate reality seems to play well given our real world history.  Also near the end where [Spoiler](#s "He shakes off getting getting shot with elephant tranq in under 5 minutes after being stabbed, and survives a grenade blast from point blank its obvious that he's super human. I hope they really delve into his past in the next game. ") Spoiler: 




The injury to his head is what made him immune to the neural toxin that paralyze the victim   6 years? It was 14, even more ridiculous. It was fourteen years, but yeah. Although would you have been okay with playing a ten hour game trying to get your guy to move? He did fob around on the floor trying to do things for a second, but gameplay will be above realism any day of the week (And christ forbid if it were to ever not). Wolfenstein meets QWOP yes qwopenstine everyone and everything's just flailing around bullets knives and lasers in all directions.  [Relevant.](http://gamejolt.com/games/shooter/super-wolfenstein-hd-now-with-realistic-physics/39194/) That sounds like an awesome flash game. Somebody get on that pls! Sounds like somebody needs to play Super Wolfenstein 3D there's a line in the fergus timeline where he says something like "we were from another time, surviving on willpower alone" so i figure it's that he just powers through adversity.  even if adversity is 14 years of muscle atrophy. Truly the greatest generation. Yeah, I mean. He gets stabbed in the neck and just shrugs it off. I think he's meant to be outrageous in that regard. He was catatonic, not paralysed. All it took was seeing Nazis to snap out of it. He was still catatonic for 14 years. Unless he snapped out of it for a few hours a day to lift he would have no muscle mass and would barely be able to move. Nothing a bunch of medkits couldn't fix. They did move him around, there was that scene with a bath. So it's not unreasonable that they perhaps did manually exercise him, not enough to realistically keep the physic that he had though, granted, but this is BJ  we're talking about! Well, as Wolfenstein 3D was the predecessor to Doom, the original BJ was the grandaddy (literally?) of DOOMGUY. So you gotta expect levels of ridiculous badassery capable only of the grandaddy of DOOMGUY. It is suggested that in the original timeline B.J Blazkowicz returns home after WWII, has a family and is the Grandfather of Billy Blaze, aka COMMANDER KEEN. &gt; I was absolutely stunned that they gave him character, and then expanded on it. By midway through the game, I genuinely gave a damn about him, as well as the other characters.

The voiceovers definitely gave me that "Apocalypse Now" feeling. You know the one: 

&gt; "Saigon. Shit. I'm still only in Saigon. Every time, I think I'm gonna wake up back in the jungle."

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ytOD9ZxLvEs I was fully expecting Anya sleeping with B.J. was going to be all in B.J.'s head since he had a significant head injury. Ha, never thought about that. That would have certainly been funny. Do they explain how he can carry so much gold at once? No and that is one of the greatest mysteries of our time... I really don't think we'll even know. First game in a long time that I've finished and said "OK I WANT MORE. WHERE DLC?!". I felt the same way with the South Park game. I would do some disgusting things for Imaginationland DLC.  I'm hoping for The Coon vs. Mysterion. Is anything else going to come out with that game?  Supposedly a lot of DLC was planned, but they scrapped it and instead used the content for the second half of whatever season they were on at the time for the TV series. It's cool that the game and the show were similar enough they could've probably made any episode into a game, the combat would become a joke or might have to be slightly figurative in some cases but it would work. They could make an awesome sequel if they brought back the Star Trek nerds from season 4 and their time travel device.  So many possibilities with that scenario :) I've heard that a lot of content was cut from game, either before it could be produced, or afterwards. Regardless, I'm sure there's content in some form or another lying around that they're planning on building into some sort of DLC or sequel, and we'll likely hear about such additional content in the coming months, perhaps closer to or during E3. That's my hope, anyway. &gt; I've heard that a lot of content was cut from game, either before it could be produced, or afterwards

So every obsidian game ever? I would love to see Obsidian get the time to do all the stuff they planned on.

 100 years later, the greatest game of all time is released. So the RPG equivalent of Dwarf Fortress? ...I need to go change my pants now... If Obsidian were given the respect in the industry with regards to time that Blizzard, Valve and CD Projekt Red are, then I really think they'd instantly become the 'pillar' that those three have become as far as quality is concerned.

Unfortunately, due to their not being self-regulating and being a company who tend to flit around and work on IPs for other people, I don't think it'll ever happen, which is a real shame if you ask me. Lets hope Pillars of Eternity is awesome.  You mean every game ever. What was funny is when they were planning the game South Park creators were saying: we want this and this and this, and Obsidian turned and asked them, what decade would you like your game to come out it. I think they were thinking it was going to be mostly like putting together a very long episode.

To a certain degree its probably an easier game to design. They already have most of the art assets ready made. It's 2D and JRPG combat.

It's still making a video game though. Same here. The irony being that I have never bought DLC in my life, and the first game that wanted DLC for has no plans for any. My thoughts exactly. With a generation of DLC I was so confused when both South Park and Wolfenstein got nothing. I'd happily pay! Same here.  I immediately played through again, but saved the other guy.   Changes the story and some game mechanics a bit.  For real. I just beat it last night and, for the first time in a long time, I felt almost... sad? sad that such an exceptional game is over. Because it was such a satisfying experience. I understand they're open for a sequel, and while I don't know how they could improve upon what they've already accomplished, I can tell they wrote a whole lot more than they finished. What was the story with the Da'at Yichud? What was that whole deal with the crumbling concrete? Why did the supersuit lady end up playing such a small part in the final events? And where did Frau Engel run off to? I hope there is more in the future. Wasn't the whole deal with the super concrete that the old guy from Da'at added or removed some important ingredient in the mix so that mold would thrive in it, thus making it brittle? Pretty sure i heard that ingame. You're right, they go into this on a couple of occasions. Now if only machine games went in and made a quake based on the original with a real gruesome story i'd ship my wallet to their office. I had never even considered this. I may even take up ritualistic sacrifices to make it happen. Oh man this would be amazing. Quake was always my favorite of the iD series and spent so much time building up the world in my mind. The original was fine as a mostly textural/aesthetic experience with no real story at all. back in the 90's sure... But it's not about the story it's about the Cthulhu-esque world they setup that has soo much to explore. And big boxes of Nine Inch Nails... Honestly, I would have liked a bug fix update. I kept having issues where all health packs and ammo would not spawn after you did once and nothing would be dropped by enemies. It was extremely frustrating. There is one bit where you start on 20 hp, under fire. There us supposed to be full hp, armour and a gun, but they don't appear when you respawn. 
5 minutes of cutscenes seen 20 times on uber... Where you busted through the window? Welcome to the club. I've done it at least 20 times and almost lost my sanity. I turned down the difficulty, I was out of ammo so I really didn't have a choice. Well, I've done it on uber. Don't know how, but eventually I've succeeded. Like you sayed, 20 hps and almost no ammo, never again. It's funny you said that because I was thinking the exact same location lol Yeah, that part took forever.  Then I realized the sniper could turn into the laser gun...  I realized that *after* I finally got through that part. Same here. I was pissed Yup, that's exactly the spot I'm talking about. That spot drained my enthusiasm for the game. Yeah, right before the [](#s "London Monitor") fight? Great boss, but that part was terrible I turned the difficulty down from death incarnate to lowest just so I could get through that fight.  &gt; no updates to fix more bugs

Well when there's no need for them then sure. But if there's a need for them then for god's sake do release them. The core game itself is great, but the optimization for AMD is very bad. Even very high end cards are having trouble running the game, which is a shame.

[Source.](http://pcgamingwiki.com/wiki/Wolfenstein_the_new_order)  I ran it fine with a Q6600 and a Radeon HD 6870. My AMD R9 280x didn't have trouble running the game, maybe it was driver related and has since been fixed or mitigated? My only gripe is that id Tech 5 doesn't support SLI/Crossfire and it would have been nice to be able to use my 2nd 280x to really max the game (screen space reflections)   I have a 7870 that ran the game in 1920X1080 with no problem whatsoever.  I should note that I played it a few months after launch because I'm cheap like that. I played it on a 7970 at 1920x1200 with no problems whatsoever too.  Had most settings maxed IIRC.  Looked and played great!
 Playing it on a 7970GHz, runs like crap. GPU usage is at about 35% and CPU(i5-4690) usage mostly at 40-70% per core. The Game defaults to something obscene like 8x supersampling... do `r_multisamples 1` in console to make it run good. (spelling might be off. just search around for it). Good to know, thanks! A lot of this is actually AMD's fault. AMD cards have always been notoriously poor with OpenGL games.  Is that why I struggled with my 7950? That's unfortunate, was looking forward to it and only got 30 mins in before giving up and hoping for an update to fix the absurd screen tearing. It's an excellent game, but man I could've gone for some well-made DLC. The universe they built could be host to so many different stories - I don't want to wait for the sequel in 2016/2017 (estimate) for another one. Excellent, now quickly while the big budget offline market is there, somebody make No One Lives Forever 3!

 I'm pretty sure NOLF is stuck in IP rights hell. It's probably better for a company that wants to make a game like NOLF to do what 2k/Irrational did an go for a spiritual sequel.

As much as I loved NOLF1/2, I'm not sure where they would go with it. Think any James Bond premise ever but with a female protagonist. So much to explore. A spiritual sequel would be fantastic. Played the hell out of NOLF 1/2, 2-3 playthroughs each. Loved the quirky gadgets, although wished your selected loadout for each mission had a more serious impact on gameplay. Loved the Thief/Deus Ex-like level design, where there are always multiple ways of doing everything. 

Even though Eidos Montreal rather tanked on Thief, they did have a stellar showing with Deus Ex:HR. They would make also make a great choice to make such a sequel. Although not sure if they could recapture that quirky Austin Powers-style humor. I picked up Wolfenstein recently and I'm loving my time with it. I was kind of scared that it might devolve into a rubbish cash-in but it really isn't. It's nothing mind-blowing but the soundtrack, the colourful characters, the robot designs, I love it all so much. I even like how they managed to take Blazkowicz, a bit of a meathead, and make him a meathead with a soul, a personality. It's such an interesting take on the World War stuff and really refreshing. I haven't beaten it yet, but I've really liked my time with it so far, and I can tell the creators put in a lot of effort. I agree. The manage to take content that is full of clichs and still make it original and fun. Even the story, which is not very deep, is somehow compelling.  it's crazy awesome. it's reallf the only remake of a childhood game that holds insane amounts of nostalgia that actually delivered. 

I tell everyone they should get it - that game was fucking perfect.  For me the game seemed like a polished turd at first (read the whole post).

For an id Software franchise, it's seemed really heavy on story and cutscenes. To be honest, it IS too heavy on those things. It absolutely shouldn't take you out of the game so much... but the story is good enough and the voice acting is good enough that I ended up not minding.

There was some weirdness with the graphics too. The rage graphics engine is just uncharacteristically static for John Carmack. Everything looks painted on... but the benefit is that *everything looks painted*. The level of detail that went into the levels is visible in every frame. The artists did an outstanding job of making the game feel like a cohesive world. It's freaking beautiful unless you go ram your face into the wall and count the pixels.

I think I wanted to hate it, because it has all the tropes I hate most in the modern FPS genre. But I ended up loving it anyway. It's just a fun game, and at the end of the day, isn't that all that really matters? Fantastic game. I hope they do more set in that Wolfenstein universe. With the way they humanized the Nazis soldiers, I'd love to play a character similar to the one on your team (ex-nazi).

There's a moment that just stuck with me, when you're in the car going through the checkpoint: One of the robo-dogs lunges at the window and the armored guard yanks it back, yelling, "Down Blondie!" Maybe it was just a throw away line, but I just loved that this horrible creature had a name...like maybe the guard still thought of it as a dog. Blondi was the name of Hitler's dog. Who he tested his cyanide capsules on in April 1945, so the Russians couldn't parade Blondi through Red Square or something.  How did they humanise nazis?  You find letters to family members, overhear conversations. Like real life, a lot of them are just soldiers and not racist fanatics.  Ya, a ton of Nazis were just German soldiers following orders. The SS on the other hand, I would not say the same. Obviously, they're human, and have families and stuff, but they were the worst. How were they depicted in the game? I haven't gotten to play it yet. You don't really see much regarding the SS. Most of the time you either see regular german soldiers or some crazy scientific experiment abomination solider.  Well General Deathshead and Frau Engel were both SS, including the Deathshead commandos. Both are also batshit crazy but they're the only commanding officers you really see. You never, for example, hear fuck all about Hitler despite the assumption that Deathshead still answers to him somewhat.

The commandos are just as much an experiment as the robotic dogs are, to be honest. I didn't play the previous games from this Wolfenstein-universe reboot, but didn't Hitler get killed in an earlier game? He was killed in both Beyond Castle Wolfenstein and Wolfenstein 3D but not in the reboot. He's mentioned at least once as the Furer in Return to the Castle Wolfenstein then seemingly forgotten about except by a few randoms in The New Order who will shout "Heil Hitler".

Nothing really illustrates the idea that he's dead, and nothing illustrates the idea that he's alive either, considering Deathshead runs the show and has been the main villain for the past few games.

Hitler always seems to be a touchy subject in games. The original Wolfenstein games had him killed but I don't know many games that open do this. The Kampfhunds were still dogs. Just with extensive surgery. Like a cyborg dog... A cydorg?

Anyway the actual robot dogs are the Panzerhunds. To be fair this is the core team that did the impossible before: take a movie ip and make it a must play game:escape from butcher bay.

They also did the first darkness game which I loved despite having no knowledge or interest in the ip at the time. I played the demo, and immediately went out and spent 60 bucks on my first full price PS3 game.  

To be honest my expectations were higher than most so wolfenstein didn't quite live up to them. It was still good, but I think I was almost unfairly expecting to be wowed even more than was realistic. 

These are guys I would trust to even handle the silent hill ip, and that is high praise for their handling of characters. How is that an impossible in a world where Goldeneye exists?  Well to be fair goldeneye was a great game for consoles at the time, but it wasn't mind blowing if you came from pc. But fair dues :).   It revolutionized console gaming, and the way we looked at shooters on consoles.  Many argue the same about halo :) and both arguments have their merit.

I'm not saying goldeneye didn't accomplish anything :) but As a pc gamer it wasn't mind blowing to me(at the time) but butcher bay not only was a must play on every platform(and Imo still holds up today)but they beat Id software to the punch on tech they used in doom 3. I'm not sure the average console player would find goldeneye that fun today in comparison, let alone a pic player.

But yes, goldeneye was a milestone game for console, but I think, and I could be wrong as I was mostly a pc gamer during that era and probably movie tie ins were more on console, goldeneye was also before the huge deluge of crap movie tie games that instilled a bitter cynicism in most players that made butcher bay so refreshingly unexpected.

I recall James bond games being pretty decent overall though.

I guess the next thing would  have to be a Disney tie in game that was must play  :)
 Wait what!? This is the core team that did Escape from Butcher Bay?

That's *still* one of my favourite games of all time and one of the best stealth games I've ever played.

Wolfenstein: The New Order was my GoTY for 2014 and I had no idea. Escape from Butcher Bay was the first Xbox game I ever played (I picked up the console while I had a PS3 out of curiousity for the games on it). I honestly couldn't take myself away from that game, it was brilliant, only downside was that it seemed too short for its quality level! I wanted more.

On that note, I felt the prison section of Wolfenstein: TNO reminded me a lot of Butcher Bay. That's when I realised it was the same developer. Well now I'm going to get the new Wolfenstein. I just so utterly don't care about online multiplayer (except cooperative like Borderlands). I get SO MUCH MORE from games that don't try to cater to the multi market.






The screenshots screamed, "BIOSHOCK" at me. And now I want it. Shame you missed the steam sale! It was dirt cheap last week! It was over $20, which isn't really "dirt cheap" in comparison with the steam sales of yore. Whelp. There's always the summer sale... I'll just throw it only my steam wishlist so they tell me when it's on sale. It was actually like $20 on the stream sale. I wouldn't say dirt cheap. It will probably be cheaper next sale.  There will probably be one in spring/easter If i'm not mistaken, so just keep your eye out I actually enjoyed it more than Bioshock Infinite. And I loved BI, but I gotta say the heavy-handed "organized religion is bad" motif throughout the game was very off-putting. Can't you get your point across without rubbing it in my face, Ken Levine? Don't mean to start anything but Infinite never said "Organized religion is bad", just like how Bioshock never said "Objectivism is bad". Those ideologies taken to the extreme are bad.  You're right, it didn't. It was more of an over-simplification of the idea of an idealized, god-fearing, true American patriot.  Yeah, when I referred to Bioshock I did truly mean "Bioshock". Infinite was fun, but it was lacking. And that motif *did* get really overused. I get it Comstock, I'm a terrible person because I'm literally not George Washington. 






The fact that you enjoyed it more than BI is just another reason to get it! Yeah, like halfway in I was like "hey, I'm really into this game." Low expectations contributed a little I'm sure. Plus I went into it with the hope of getting an old school style fps (hey, can I just shoot for a while and not have to be interrupted to control a helicopter/bomber/tank/missile targeting thing every two minutes? Can I just play a fucking level?) and that's exactly what I got. Didn't Bioshock games do this before? Bioshock 2 had multiplayer I thought? And it sucked. Still had it. The days when games would come out with lackluster single player because an unacceptable amount of time was spent on an unacceptable multiplayer. I thought bioshock 2's campaign was a cool response to the first games political statement and how neither extreme works for anybody. Also the characters were interesting. Kind of. But I played Bioshock for the story and atmosphere. It just kind of happens to be a shooter imo. Or its a shooter last in my eyes. 

While the story and atmosphere may be good in Wolfenstein, I see it as a shooter first. Agreed,

Bioshock advertised itself as a hybrid of genres, much like System Shock did, that uses the mechanics of an FPS to get across it's other parts.

Wolfenstein New Order makes no qualms about what it might be. It's a balls to the wall FPS. As if to underscore your point for me personally, I never really thought about it before, but when I remember Bioshock Infinite, I almost completely forget about the actual "gameplay", but the scenes and settings come back vividly.  Apologies for not being clear enough. I was using Bioshock 1 as the example.

I really did not enjoy my time with Infinite, so it's just clued out. I have a hard time calling it balls to the wall FPS. It continually gives and takes away your weapons, and had way too many sections that were implied stealth sections. I picked this up during steam sale. As someone that generally doesn't care for FPS these days so far I've been very pleased. I swear I've read this same story multiple times. Seems like we go through this cycle every few years, where the shooter genre gets swarmed with multiplayer focused games and pundits proclaim the death of the single player shooter . . . and then someone releases a single player focused shooter thats actually polished and enjoyable. 

Bottom line is there will always be a market for a fun, polished game, whether its single player or multi player.  Wolfenstein did well, and it certainly deserved it, it's an incredibly well done game (Surprisingly, there was a lot of criticism before launch).

But, how well did it do exactly with sales ? Sure it proves an offline FPS can work, I don't think people really doubted something like that could work after the rise of multiplayer only titles (I mean Christ, look at dishonered and other examples, this article proves nothing). ***Because really, what matters if how well it did compared to an FPS which includes online***, because that's what Publishers would care about, and of course the salaries/jobs of the developers. My guess is that if they threw in a cheap Co-op or multiplayer, even at the cost of dumbing down SP, the game could have been even more successful (Attracting Multiplayer fans alone the way and giving one more reason for pirates to pay).

*TL;DR*: It's not a surprise it did well, other offline FPSs have recently done well, the question is how well it did compared to online games and whether it would have made more sales with online features. The pre-launch criticism was probably because they somehow managed to compile the most boring parts of the game together in the press demo and showed none of the great characters or fun gameplay. I am personally quite glad they went that route, as opposed to the ridiculous amount of movie trailers these days that basically just spoil the entire film.  I definitely appreciate that, but they still probably could have put the more fun combat sequences there without context. I actually agree with that completely. There were so many awesome sequences and I think that not advertising them might have lost some sales because people thought the game was going to be a boring, generic cash-grab.  I think the skepticism that trailed it prior to launch was expected, for sure.  The last Wolfenstein game was a completely let down in my opinion, and I expected another one to be more of the same.  I also though it was a bad sign that they wanted to attach a 'someday' you'll have access to the Doom beta as a pre-order incentive, because to me, it seemed like desperation.  No Doom beta access was actually planned at that time... but they had to throw something good in there.

Well, after all the positive buzz after the launch of Wolfenstein, I picked it up and... my oh my, was it good.  Probably a TAD too long, but it didn't really matter.  There wasn't really any stage that made me say, "Come onnnn, pick it up a little."  The characters were surprisingly likeable, and I can't wait to see a sequel.  

How did it do in sales?  I'm not sure of any exact numbers, but it did well enough that Machine Games said they were likely to do a sequel mere weeks after the game had launched.  

I wholeheartedly disagree that multiplayer = sale.  If the single player was 'meh' and the multi was good, it still wasn't going to sell like hotcakes... at this point, Wolfenstein isn't guaranteed to sell like Call of Duty.  

The only semi-legit criticism this game could receive prior to launch was the fact that it didn't have multiplayer.  After all, Return to Castle Wolfenstein had a pretty stellar multiplayer mode for its time, and it's hard to imagine a 'to be taken seriously' installment in this franchise to launch without multi... but Machine Games stuck to their guns and said, "Nope, we don't want to take away from the core experience.  We're working hard to deliver."  People said, "Yeah, right, they just need to finish the game and get it out the door on time, and won't have time to fix their game AND do multiplayer.  Lame!"  

And yet, the game released... and it was received well enough by both critics AND consumers.  The game sold well enough to warrant a sequel, apparently... so the lesson here, is that no, publishers/studios don't have to throw everything including the kitchen sink at gamers.  Positive word of mouth is something that's going to sell games... Machine Games actually delivered.  They talked the talk, but then actually walked the walk.  People gobbled it up as a result.  

Part of the problem with studios/publishers today is that there's far too many who think they need to provide us EVERYTHING... yet certain personalities from the industry will blame US, the gamers, as if we're FORCING them to give us everything.  This is likely why we're getting multiplayer modes in games that don't need them... like God of War and Tomb Raider.  Or even The Last of Us (the fact that the multiplayer here is quite good is irrelevant) or Uncharted.  Nobody ASKED for multiplayer in most, if not all of these games.  These games would have sold well enough for the single player experience... yet the publishers/developers have made a conscious decision to give us that content anyway.  

How much money are they spending for a bunch of game modes and multiplayer we don't really need?  They're not being wise with their money, either.  My point?  It costs a lot of money to have a team work on great multiplayer... money and valuable resources which could otherwise be used on the single player campaign.  How much more would they really make if they half-assed the whole thing just to make multiplayer?  I'm going to guess they actually made the right call here and actually came out on top BECAUSE of that decision. It didn't really have to.

Far Cry 3 

Far Cry 4 (both aren't regarded for their multiplayer)

Bioshock Infinite

Metro: Last Light

Metro 2033

This notion that Wolfenstein has suddenly exploded onto the scene and revived the offline FPS is completely blind. 
 To be fair, just because Far Cry 3 and 4 weren't known for their multiplayer doesn't negate the fact that they have a multiplayer component.  And to some degree uplay negates the offline bit..

I know you can play it in offline mode, but last time i tried, Far Cry 3 kept connecting to the servers each time i entered the pause menu, which was fairly often, since map, crafting and skills were in that menu. And each time it needed a couple of seconds to verify that it still couldn't connect to the uplay servers, despite me starting the game in offline mode.. Uplay is the sole reason I won't be buying The Division. A good 40% of Splinter Cell: Conviction was entirely unplayable on PC. That's almost half of the game that was locked off because it wanted to verify every single action every single time. 

I got into one coop game out of two hours of trying, said HOLY SHIT IT WORKED, the other guy basically said the same thing, then the game gave me "Could not connect to Uplay servers." And disconnected me.

I'm sorry Ubisoft, what? You're releasing a fully online multiplayer shooter on PC? That's too bad. I didn't think you dumbasses could handle any more bad press. Must be real gluttons for punishment. Good luck with everyone rioting when the PC version drops support on day one and never comes back up. Let me know how that goes for you.

For what it's worth though, at least SC:C was an amazing SP experience.  I seriously doubt anyone bought FC3/4 for the multiplayer experience. Shadow Warrior was also a pretty solid single player FPS. Maybe not as good as these other games, but still pretty good Yeah good point, was just listing a few though.  Aren't the Metro games non-AAA budget-wise? 2033 fair enough, but I'd imagine they had sufficient budget for Last Light. The others are certainly AAA though.  Metro: Last Light was a really high quality game.  I'd even say the engine and overall polish/design of the game surpassed Wolfenstein.

 And they made that engine in house. Really impressive. No fps lock either :)

I played Last Light in 1440p and 120 hertz, it was one of the best gaming experiences I've ever had. It's ridiculous, first time I played it on my 360 I was simply amazed, going to get the Redux now. That game is a fine example of "next-gen" shooter. You'd be even more amazed if you'd see it on a PC. I'll get Redux on the PC now. I built a new rig just a few days ago! 750ti and 4790k, so far so good. Unless that PC is mine, which arbitrarily decided that after the first 45 minutes it was going to drop the framerate down to about 1 frame every 3 seconds.  I liked what little I got to see of the game, though. You probably suffered from Throttling. It used to happen to me a lot on my old PC. I remember that bit. I disabled PhysX and got back up to an acceptable framerate. Try turning off PhysX. I had the same problem Where do we draw the line between AAA and AA? The whole AAA vs AA thing is actually quite silly, most of the AAA budget goes in to marketing and has nothing to do with the game itself. That's why I specified "budget-wise" since quality or even technical superiority have nothing to do with it.

Small-ish studio, small publisher. I would put Metro in the non-AAA category without diminishing the games (they look fantastic and are quite fun). Well what happens if an AAA game has a bigger budget, but the AA game devs spends more on the game than the AAA guys because the AAA spent 60% of it on ads?

The whole distinguishment is quite silly because it makes almost no sense. I mean someone can spend $80,000,000 on a tetris remake with only 4 people in the dev team, they just get paid a lot, does that still make it an AAA tetris remake? How is it different from the one some dude made in his basement mid in 80s? And don't disagree AAA is silly. It's one of those self-attributed labels big studios coined to justify slapping a 60$ price tag on a yearly sequel.

I'm OK calling games like Call of Duty "AAA" for their near-Hollywood budgets and marketing. Infinite isn't a very good shooter though whereas New Order clearly is. 

I'll give you the Metros though. Great games and great shooters.  A lot of people have told me that Half-Life 3 would never work because of this exact reason. Hopefully this is enough evidence to prove them wrong. The problem Valve was facing a couple years ago at least when they talked about it briefly, was that they need to come up with a new key mechanic to add to the series.

HL1 had rough physics &amp; breakables, as well as looking really nice at the time

HL2 had the grav gun and vehicles, as well as looking really nice at the time

They'll have the latter bit checked off when source 2 comes around hopefully, but finding a mechanic that just feels key is what they were still needing two years ago. Even so i known this isnt your point I want to emphasize a bit more what HL and HL2 meant.

Hl wasnt just looking nice and had breakables. It had a really well done story and brought it to the player without a single cutscene. This was an absolute novelty. If you wanted to experience an awesome story and explore another world shooters werent the way to go. However HL showed that this is possible.

HL2 used this formula again and added the physics puzzle and the gravity gun. This was pretty much the start of improved ingame physics and manipulatable environment.  HL2 definitely went above and beyond with game physics. Half Life 2 *still* has better physics than a lot of modern games coming out today. Offline FPS have never been outdated. It just that AAA game companies think mlutiplayer focus FPS will make more money. So they just keep making those and eventually we forget offline FPS existed.  I can't read the article but I will say Wolfenstein was an amazing game for he and I really hope other developers take a look and realize that you  can release a single player FPS game and have success still.  Keep the talent you would use for a shitty multiplayer and just focus on making the absolute best single player experience you can. blown away by this game, was expecting a standard fps experience, in it to shoot some people. I shot some people then traveled years into the future to fight neo nazis while sneaking and sliding around with dual shotguns.

Unfortunately its short but has some great replayability and is my favorite FPS from 2014. I'm not sure if I recall correctly since it's obviously been a while since I've played but... didn't the campaign run between 15-20 hours? More along the lines of 12-15, a bit longer if you like to faff about and look at stuff, find collectables, etc. Christ, a twenty hour FPS campaign would be bullshit. Alien Isolation tried that, and the last third of the game certainly felt like they were dragging it out as much as possible.  I feel like I was probably in the 14-15 hour range... but yeah, mostly because I was looking around everywhere. Yup, it was definitely a much more lengthy campaign compared to the usual 4-6h ones we get these years.

I'd say the length was about perfect for the type of game it was.   Closer to 10 hours :(

That's how long it took me and I was stealthing as much as possible on hard mode so I wasn't exactly rushing it. Weirdly, I felt stealthing was actually faster than running in guns ablaze in a lot of parts.

Maybe it's just because I'm more cautious with firefights than I probably should be in this game, but popping people in the head with the suppressed pistol was extremely effective, and a normal unaware enemy would go down with two shots to the torso (just pull both triggers at the same time). Whereas making a racket before taking out the commanders summoned a bunch of reinforcements who take a while to kill in open combat. That's a point actually. The silenced pistol was weirdly effective and if you were a good shot you could end even full guns blazing firefights very easily. Especially once you got the suppressor damage upgrade, its only real downside is the ammo availability. Did they just not account for people using a mouse?

I never actually used the 60's pistol without the suppressor, since the only other option was a mostly-useless 3 round burst. What's the point of having one shot hit then another two go over their head? Man I wish it was 15-20. Maybe its just because I was on medium difficulty, but I finished in 9 hours and I definitely wasn't rushing, I took my time with a lot of parts.  I feel sad about the fact that I can't play the game, 'cause I will never lower myself to play some censored badly dubbed version. I don't know what anyone is talking about - I fucking love single player campaigns. There is a certain element about playing alone, by yourself, just you and a game that will always be great to me. Glad this game still gets buzz, I keep mentioning to people how fun and enjoyable the game was. The story was well made, the mechanics seemed spot on and the objectives never felt like pointless chores that you trudged through to just finish. Beat it twice, 100% it and have done nothing but try to get other people to try.. they all act surprised but then I see the game still sitting at its full price tag in most stores while everything else has dropped to lower permanent prices. It's well worth it and was quite possibly my favorite game of 2014. I don't think the game was heavily pirated due to the fact that it was an offline only game, as this article and many other articles suggest. There is no reason why anyone should have expected this game to be good. It was surprising that it was good for many reasons. Look at reboots anymore, very rarely are they good i.e. Thief (2014), Wolfenstein (2009). Also look at the history of the developers, Machine Games, and you'll find that there's not much there. Generally just look at AAA releases as well recently, and you'll find that they haven't been too incredible. While I still see piracy as a problem, it's pretty clear that a rise in piracy is going to happen when consumers don't trust the content creators to make products worth their hard earned money. This is why I loved the success of this game more than any other this year, Dragon Age: Inquisition was great but Bioware have already delivered games like it before (regardless of mistakes in DA2 and ME3) and Transistor is a spiritual successor to Bastion so no surprise there.

Wolfenstein though finally combines the right mix of old school mechanics and modern shooter advances in a memorable story. 

For those saying Bioshock Infinite and Metro 2033, Bioshock advertises itself as a hybrid game and Metro 2033 is more survival horror.  I was SO surprised by how awesome this game was! I only rented it from Gamefly because I was kind of skeptical at it at first. I ended up playing the game twice. I did both playthroughs for all the achievements besides the ultra difficulty. And then I played the last level on Ultra to get the last achievement. I played it twice because I actually wanted to see what both sides of the story played. It was neat!

And if I didn't already beat it twice, I probably would have bought the game! I rented Battlefield 3, and ended up liking that game so much that I bought the online pass during the rental. Liked multiplayer so much I bought it that Christmas. Of course, that game has multiplayer so it's totally invalid to this article.

It's amazing how many games get passed under so many peoples radar because of no multiplayer. Bulletstorm, while it did have its flaws, it was still a very fun game for what it did. Crackdown is also another example of this. Not every single game needs multiplayer. Bioshock 2 didn't need it. Though that was pretty darn fun for a bit after the game released. Now it just sucks... at least on console.  it took them 20 years to figure this out? that wolfenstein made money? I think it's more a gesture about how many bigger shooters are moving more to online play and the most played ones are things like CSGO, COD and TF2. Despite this apparent trend, offline singleplayer only can still be a big budget success Even though The New Order is near perfect without some kind of multiplayer, online or otherwise, I'm really curious as to what Machine could have done with one. The Resistance vs. Uber Nazis with all the same mechanics found in the story mode, yes please.  Hopefully the multiplayer would be to New Order what Enemy Territory was to RTCW. Was there any need to prove only single player games can still do really well in the market? The Last of Us is critically acclaimed for its story and campaign too - and that just last last year. While it does have multiplayer, it seems more of an afterthought. I've never touched it honestly, because I kept playing the campaign over and over. It alone should have shown the industry that there is space for titles like these. Wolfenstein shouldn't have to remind us again that single player strong titles work in recent times. 

2014 has been so disappointing on so many levels. Devs and publishers should have learnt this fact by now. Tacked on multiplayer is an incredible behemoth task for a dev team, with little to no return, only so that marketing can check off 'multiplayer' on their stupid list.  Nobody could've predicted that a sequel to one of the most beloved franchises in PC gaming coupled with a unique and interesting marketing campaign would ever succeed at all in this age of buying pre-order sight unseen based on title and box art/youtube video! Nobody! Mold breaker! Amazing! The real experience and beauty of this game was when I really felt like a kid again playing a single player shooter like MOH frontline before the DLC and unfinished launches era we are in now.  I just want an offline mode with bots, is that too much to ask?

That's one thing I absolutely loved about BF2 and BF2142; crazy battles with crazy bots on the same maps that we used in MP. Unfortunately, very few people seem to talk about the fact, that the new Wolfenstein introduced a very very intrusive way of censorship on steam. I live in Germany and I can only buy a heavily censored german-language only edition of the game on steam. Okay, other games did that, I'll just talk to someone from the UK to gift me the uncensored version, right? Wrong, because I will not be able to activate, install or play this uncensored UK-version on steam, without launching steam through a VPN everytime.I.want.to.play.the.game.

What irks me about this is the fact, that apparently Bethesda did this on their own accord? I know of no other game that is as restrictive as Wolfenstein. I play an uncensored L4D2 version, I play the older Wolfensteins, I play all sorts of uncensored UK versions of games on my steam. As soon as you registered them on your account you're fine. But not this time.

I really, really want to play this Wolfenstein game. It doesn't make sense if you censor out every reference to the enemies being Nazis. I would have gladly paid the full release price. But I can't. There is no way for me to buy this game. And no one really talks about that :/. &gt; It doesn't make sense if you censor out every reference to the enemies being Nazis.

Wow, really? That's insanity. Honestly, I think a solid 15% of the sentences uttered in that game had the verb "kill" and the object "Nazi(s)." And it's kind of the whole point of the game... Steam has to comply with german law, you can't really get around that. Uh you live in Germany, but you aren't aware that Nazi symbols and references are illegal? Either they censored the game, or you got NO game at all! Don't blame the developers, blame your government.

Edit: And you're being really whiney: [the censored version isn't even that different from the regular version.](http://youtu.be/1hK4Px4O8aE) You NEED to run the game through a VPN? Bullshit, no you don't. Thanks for the video, I've been really curious to see the exact changes they implemented. I am fully aware that Nazi symbols and references are illegal in germany. I do also think that it is lame, that movies are allowed to display these symbols because they are deemed to be art but videogames are not allowed to do so.

But my problem lies not in the censorship of the game, it lies in the fact that there are digital measures preventing me from installing and playing a game, that I bought in another country! The funny thing is, that apparently you can play an UK-version of wolfenstein on consoles in germany just fine, but the steam version has a region-lock built in.
That is why you *do* need a VPN if you want to play the uncensored, region-locked version of the game.

I've also watched your video and if you think that taking out every reference of the enemies being nazis, just calling them regime and also only allowing the game to be run in german, even if I as a german, would like to listen to it in english language isn't that different from the regular version, then I don't know either. It bothers me a great deal. After playing a good chunk of the game I actually do wish there was an online part to it. It doesn't need it and I'm very happy with there final product but damn I love the shooting in that gamem I just want more. Loved this game. Pirated and after an hour or so I bought it straight away, didn't think it would be too good. New release date: March 24, 2015. 

---

*Minimum specifications:*   
OS: Windows 8.1 64 Bit, Windows 8 64 Bit, Windows 7 64 Bit Service Pack 1, Windows Vista 64 Bit Service Pack 2* (*NVIDIA video card recommended if running Vista OS)   
Processor: Intel Core 2 Quad CPU Q6600 @ 2.40GHz (4 CPUs) / AMD Phenom 9850 Quad-Core Processor (4 CPUs) @ 2.5GHz   
Memory: 4GB   
Video Card: NVIDIA 9800 GT 1GB / AMD HD 4870 1GB (DX 10, 10.1, 11)   
Sound Card: 100% DirectX 10 compatible   
HDD Space: 65GB   
DVD Drive   

*Recommended specifications:*   
OS: Windows 8.1 64 Bit, Windows 8 64 Bit, Windows 7 64 Bit Service Pack 1   
Processor: Intel Core i5 3470 @ 3.2GHZ (4 CPUs) / AMD X8 FX-8350 @ 4GHZ (8 CPUs)   
Memory: 8GB   
Video Card: NVIDIA GTX 660 2GB / AMD HD7870 2GB   
Sound Card: 100% DirectX 10 compatible   
HDD Space: 65GB   
DVD Drive   

---

Also 

&gt; GTA Online for PC, which will support up to 30 players, will launch alongside GTAV for PC and will include GTA Online Heists.  Online Heists for consoles will be launching in the coming weeks ahead of the PC launch.
 9800 minimum is insanely low, this game is going to scale so well  My gut reaction to the GPU was "bullshit," but the 9800 GT can run Bioshock Infinite at a dodgy 60fps so I guess it's not too unreal.  I played GTA IV on a 8600m and GTA V is still an Xbox360 game after all. The big problem with GTA IV is that your 8600m ran it just as well as others' 980s. 780 here. Not a 980, but I got no performance boost from my old HD4870 7950 here, GTA4 refuses (no matter what I do) to recognize I have more than 300mb of graphical memory. Happened to me too! There's an .ini hack IIRC that fixes this, just google it I guess? I think I tried it, but I might be wrong.

When my 980 comes in I'll give it another shot.

IIRC the workaround I had to do was set textures to lowest possible setting, and leave everything else maxed out. Any setting higher than lowest on textures results in the distance LOD textures never unloading, which is really awkward when the ground texture renders 4' off the ground all the time. It still remains to be seen, but I think it would be a bit disingenuous to call the PC version of GTAV a port from 360 just because they have the same name.  9800 (8800GT) is a really good card... why shouldn't it be minimal?

It can run decently graphic demanding games without much problems, FPS of course are not optimal 60+ but nonetheless it can run them on above playable levels, source I own one and played and finished most of these games.

Random youtube videos -

BF 3 - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Uw48V03EaVk

BF 4 - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NtXRKUj_fGc

Crysis 2 - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Xs4alsf2ik4

The Witcher 2 - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xRW9RAAgkbE

Batman - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6wwCfsIim_Q

Bioshock Infinite - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DU2Y61ZCnUE


Mind that most of these configs are medium/high tier from year 2007 (thats 8 years old hardware).

 It's a 9800GT, not a 9800. I used to have one for a couple of years but now they're pretty much obselete since they don't have DX11 support. It's a decent card for it's age, but it's a far cry from being a really good card. *Was* a good card. I loved my 8800Gt but my GTX 260 was better, and my (new used (it was free)) GTX 470 is an even bigger jump. Sure it may be able to play GTA V, but its going to look absolutely horrid not really be worth it. Wow, the minimum specs are my rig from 2008.

That's crazy to think about. The minimum specs practically is my CURRENT rig. Way to make a bro feel bad :( Want to feel really bad? Take a look at the Witcher 3 minimum specs. I just built a new rig at the beginning of last year and it's closer than I'd like. To be honest, hardly anyone is going to be able to play it. Having an R9 290 as your recommended GPU for a game in 2015 is insane. I mean its a card that was released over a year ago Q4 of 2013 and its a game that was always known to be pushing hardware limits, for something that was always focusing on the PC. It's not that unreasonable.

It's actually a game that is going to push hardware sales and get people to upgrade, and to me thats kinda cool it can still happen even in 2015. Hopefully it will be pushing hardware limits and not just poorly optimized. judging by both the previous witcher games I wouldn't count on that. On the other hand, judging by both previous games, they'll fix how broken it is sometime after launch for free, so there's that.  &gt;recommended

That's your answer. This could mean high settings, max settings, 1080p 30 FPS or 60 FPS. This means *ideal.*

The minimum reqs are much more reasonable, aside from the high CPU requirements. Besides, it'll run on lesser hardware, but nowhere near ideally.  I'm still using that Q6600! God dammit! &gt; HDD Space: 65GB

My God. That's one hell of a hefty tiger. Well rockstar doesnt like compressing things... I remember downloading Max Payne 3 for the first time. Goddamn 30 gigs. Yeah but at least rock star doesn't make 30 of those gigs sound. *or different languages* It's not that surprising. We already know the size for the most part on consoles. It's roughly the same as PC. Those textures in the screenshot with Franklin though.,, nngh [deleted] Those minimum specs put a tear in my eye. Maybe there is hope yet my dino can run GTA V.  [deleted] I've considered removing my DVD drive since i don't use it in my PC. I haven't installed anything from a DVD in over 3 and a half years.  I have completely disregarded it when I built my own PC. Then I kinda regretted it since all the drivers came on a CD and I was too lazy to google them one by one. So I had to improvise.  but those drivers are outdated But when you need to install the Ethernet driver in order to connect to the internet and download the rest, you'll be damn glad you have a drive. ...unless you have another computer and a flash drive available.  [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] &gt;GTAV PC: new release date!

I like how they use that rose-tinted PR speak instead of just saying "GTA V delayed".  Damn this is brutal to those of use who expected it in the fall, and then january.  This is now its third delay.  Hey, we bitch when they release half baked games to hit a date and say they should give the devs time... they did that. I respect that. They want our money for their shareholders just as much as we want the game. They also say the delay is only *"a few extra weeks"*, when in reality it's a full 2 months. As long as it comes out clean, I couldn't care less about delays.

Do you know how long I had a team fortress 2 preorder? You expected it in the fall, then in January. Delay 1.

You expected it in January, now in March. Delay 2.

What am I missing/forgetting for that third delay? Ahh... you are indeed right, and I was an idiot. March 24th is technically the third *release date* but only the second *delay*. So, I've got a Gforce GT 610. I'm not so good with numbers and such when it comes to cards. Will I be able to run GTAV at all? If anyone would be willing to answer that question I would be quite happy.  Almost certainly not,  your 610 is roughly one quarter to one third as powerful as the minimum card listed  The minimum card is this: http://www.futuremark.com/hardware/gpu/NVIDIA+GeForce+9800+GT/games  and your 610 has a 3DMark score of 550.

And recommended card is over 6400 3DMark
 I remember being impressed by how many CD's was required to install Final Fantasy 8 for PC, or Never Winter Nights. (5 or so CD's) But we never got to see how far things have come because of the transition to DVD (and hopefully eventually Blu-ray for those that like having a physical copy..)

So to put things into perspective... if we still used CD's to install games, GTA:V for PC would require 93 CD's if the install was uncompressed, and around 43 compressed.

I find that mildly interesting. [deleted] [deleted] Some of us used to slide the actual "floppy" discs into drives to rock out to some Carmen Sandiego or Oregon Trail.  GTAV could fill 78 million floppy discs.  

Edit:  The number "78 million" was pulled out of my ass.  No need to keep correcting me :) Carmen Sandiego died of dysentery.  Where in the world is Oregon? 78 Million floppy discs isn't correct. I did some calculations and here are the number for different mediums (remember, there is 1024MB in 1GB and 1024 KB in 1MB).

Also, GTA V's pre-installation will be be compressed and will probably be between 25GB and 50GB in size as opposed to its 65GB post-installation size. But for the sake of interest, here is how it would have been stored on different mediums of the past in its uncompressed state:

* 14 x 4.7GB DVD's (Single-layered DVD's was created in 1995)
* 96 x 700MB CD's (Audio Compact Disc commercially available since 1982)
* 9,728 x 10MB IBM XT HDD's (Shipped with home PC's in 1983)
* 46,223 x 1.44MB 3" Floppy Disks (Shipped with PC's in 1987)
* 94,664 x 720kb 3" Floppy Disks (Shipped with PC's in 1986)
* 189,327 x 360kb 5" Floppy Disks (Introduced in 1976)

Edit: Thanks for u/RscMrF for picking up on a calculation mistake I made. Fixed it and a couple of others too.

 Props for doing the math when he was just making a random exaggeration! "The best way to get a correct answer on the internet is to post the wrong answer." Thats why we finaly need PC games on bluray! Many people can't download 50+ GB and changing 10 dvds sucks too. I'm really surprised that they haven't made the switch already. But then again I'm sort of not surprised because of how reliant PC gamer's are on digital download.  And owning a Blu-ray drive never really became huge because of digital downloads, and the fact that no software comes on Blu-ray.  I'm guessing the vast majority of people have a DVD drive around somewhere.   A lot of PC users have cut out the dvd drive even, I think we're more likely to see the elimination of *any* physical PC games than we are bluray ones I had a DVD Drive not working for 2 years before I noticed. Physical media is beyond dead. Maybe for some people but the consumerist mindset of actually owning something physical will never go away. People still like to have physical music album collections (whether that is CD or even vinyl it doesn't matter), movie collections and probably to a much lesser extent game collections. Also the paved path towards an entire globe of consumers being able to purchase and download 30+gb games without any bandwidth problems, as well as downloading them within a relatively short period is far from complete.

While digital downloads are going to only increase in popularity I personally doubt physical media will ever completely die.  "internet connection required for activation, online play, and **periodic entitlement verification**" Um...does this mean it will have always online DRM? Most certainly. Entitlement verification is fancy way of saying DRM. Damn. I hope it's just steam or the rockstar service thing and not a random one like denurvo (or however it's spelt).  NO Rock star service!  That was horrible in GTA4.  If they do that again, they clearly didn't learn from thier previous mistakes or listen to their customers. I'm still unable to pay for the copy of Max Payne 3 I bought because it's convinced that my Steam account is linked to another R* account.  Getting a response from their customer service is next to impossible.  Oh well, I guess I'll just pirate the game I payed full price for.  Absolutely ridiculous. no no no, it'll be *periodically* online DRM [deleted] DRM for gta? That will totally work alright...  All it will do is fuck the people who bought the game while pirates smoothly sale along.  Drunkenly sail along.  Modest specs. Although, recommended, and minimum specs are always vague. 

&gt;65 GB

Is the game really that large on consoles? Seems like games are always increasing in size. Although, HDD space isn't as expensive as it was before.  Its like 50 GBs on PS4, with Heists and more stuff, I can easily believe the 65 GB figure. Might need that space for uncompressing the download. I can definitely second this. The game is one of the largest, if not largest, games on the PS4 in regards to the size of the files on the HDD. This is the first game with that large of an install that I'm actually okay with. At least I can be sure I'm getting 65GB of content, not a bunch of audio files like Titanfall. Bit ironic, since there's way more audio content in GTAV afaik. Most of the titanfall download was music. More than 70. I mean, I love me some high-quality audio, but seriously? They just didn't compress/compress properly. Not only that, but they also made you download the uncompressed audio in all the languages Seriously. I cannot tell a difference in audio quality between 192kbps Ogg Vorbis files (or even smaller) for voices and uncompressed audio files. Music itself is another story, but I don't need FLAC or something rediculous like that in my games when gun noises, talking, etc. will be loud enough to conceal any little hiccups I might hear.  On the other hand, the rest of the minimum requirements are optimistically low. I know requirements have meant next to nothing for the past couple years, but it's cool to see a seven year old card *in theory* being able to run a game like GTA 5. I bet they let you scale it all the way back to xbox 360/ps3 levels if you want. Wouldn't be surprised if there is a traffic density option and that sort of thing, along with the usual graphics options. IV has a traffic density option on PC. It's actually something I don't like having maxed as it makes driving a pain, too many cars on the road. Hopefully V allows that choice (and many others). &gt; On the other hand, the rest of the minimum requirements are optimistically low.
  
Which reminds me of GTA IV. Which was a terrible disgrace of a port.  
  
But I trust Rockstart will have done it properly this time. I don't. Hope for the best, expect the worst. The game is around 50 gigs on PS4, maybe 35ish on PS3.

Still, that's an insane install size even in an age where big install sizes are becoming more common. I probably wasn't going to triple dip since I have it on PS3 and 4, but my SSD space is way too precious to take 65 gigs of it on a single game. most people I've seen with SSDs have larger drives installed as well as the SSD, why not just use a second drive for this game specifically?

 I have a 1TB drive as a storage drive, but I suppose it's just a First World Problem. Once you've gotten used to loading times on an SSD it's really hard to go back to an HDD for games. If the game is anything like the console versions once you load up the game, there are no load screens in the whole city, but im sure you know this already since like myself you've double dipped on ps3 and ps4 lol. Except every time you switch characters it has to reload assets from the game; or when you die, or when theres cut scenes, or when youre arrested or when you switch to multiplayer, or when you take a cab and skip to the location Thats almost half my monthly data cap.......Fuck. Gotta say, those are some fine-ass minimum requirements. Seems like it might be very well optimized. I'll ptobably be able to run this fine with my GTX 580. Running a GTX 650 ti here.

I'm buzzing. 560 ti here. Pretty excited that I'm above the minimum specs for a new game. This is gonna be fun.  [deleted] Funnily enough, the new screenshots don't appear to be retouched in any way.  It's very common in the industry to downsample your screenshots which is the least misleading way of doing it (Run the game at 4k, shrink the image to 1080p), but it looks like these are what-you-see-is-what-you-get.

Look at the trees near the bridge in the distance http://media.rockstargames.com/rockstargames/img/global/news/upload/pctree_full.jpg The grass render distance seems good as well Rockstar doesn't really do that stuff, if you watch the original GTAV reveal trailer you can even see the horrible jaggies that were prevalent in the last-gen version of the game. They might not retouch them, but the screenshots they used to promote the PS3/360 versions most certainly came from being rendered on a powerful PC. Better delayed than bad port, right? It would be too funny if its still a bad port after being delayed for 4 months, though.  &gt; It would be too funny if its still a bad port after being delayed for 4 months, though.

GTA IV came out 6 months later on PC and it wasn't exactly a good port. &gt; wasn't exactly a good port

Quite an understatement. But yeah, i don't expect much. Yeah but I've heard that Rockstar has the same team that worked on the Max Payne 3 PC port working on the GTA V Port. And completely unlike the GTA iV port Max Payne 3 was one of the best PC ports of the past few years so I, on the completely opposite level, am very hyped for this port. That's really promising, but after 2014 i just find it hard to be hyped for a game anymore. It really was a shitty year for game releases, wasn't it? The top hyped games were a total flop. I'm looking at you Watch Dogs. Yep, i really hope 2015 will look better, but I dont have high hopes. GTA V will be 18 months later on PC than on xbox 360. It's literally the worst running game on my computer. for me too, I spent a lot of money on my PC and couldnt even hit stable 50FPS, its awful If this game runs like arse, there's gonna be a lot of pitchforks. if it happened to be a bad port there would be riots everywhere, people marching with torches and pitchforks over to the Rockstar HQ and burning it to the ground. Wish they'd build first for PC and then port to consoles.  &gt;GTAV for PC pushes Los Santos and Blaine County to even greater levels of detail, running at 1080p and **60fps**

Do you guys they're implying on a 60fps lock? Or are they just mentioning 60fps casually? I think mentioning 60fps in a PR message these days is more of a confirmation that "it won't be locked to 30 fps". Considering the PR for the Sims 4 specifically said it was offline, you're probably right. Hopefully it's not locked at 60fps either. Its weird too, running at 1080p but " with up to 4K resolution " ehhh? It's PR speak. Most PC games can already run a native 4k if you really want to, it's just fucking insane to think that you'll get any sort of actual stable performance out of it. (Unless the game is old).  Honestly, I'm running 3840x2160 with a single GTX 970, and I've been fine with games like Shadows of Mordor at high settings. The thing to keep in mind is to not do stupid things like set AA beyond 2-4x, or Anisotropic filtering past 4x or so. People assume to get high quality they need things like 8-16x AA, which makes no sense on 4k at all and will severely hurt your performance for no noticeable benefit. I wish people understood how 'expensive' AA is.  AA is expensive, AF isn't. I would always set it to 16x Also the visual difference between 4x AF and x16 AF is huge. Much bigger difference than 2x AA vs 4x AA

*Edit: Clarity* If they allow 4K, I really doubt that it will have a lock. Did Max Payne 3 have a lock? Genuine question. [deleted] nope, I assume they'll be using the same engine so there won't be a lock. hopefully this is just PR talk Quite possibly just a dumb PR comment, because look at the rest of the sentence:

&gt; **Running at 1080p and 60fps with up to 4K resolution.**

I think they forgot that a PC isn't a console. People with slow PCs aren't going to be magically running at 60fps and people with 800x600 monitors aren't going to be magically running at 1080p and people running the game at 4K resolution *certainly aren't going to be magically running it at 1080p at the same time.*

So given the amount of cognitive dissonance in that sentence, I wouldn't assume it implies anything about a maximum FPS either. I love the gaming community. 

"I'd rather a game be delayed than developers releasing a buggy game."

Game delayed

"Wow fuck the developers" I can sympathize with them when every other version of the game came out either a year and a half before it, or about five months before it. On the other hand, no other version of the game runs at 60 FPS, so there's that...we're still (potentially) getting a better product for our patience. But other versions don't run at 60 fps because they are locked by the hardware. There isn't ONE PC. The fact that there isn't one PC is exactly why it takes longer to make. They aren't coding the game for every graphics card and processor out there. On PC we have a thing called DirectX, an application programming interface (API) which lets developers make games for multiple graphics cards. Basically if your graphics card is missing something in terms of hardware, DirectX is able to emulate it trough software. PC's will never reach the potential of optimization that consoles have though, but it's still a better solution than manually programming games for every graphics card. Oh my god. I now understand what DirectX does. I feel like I just leveled up in real life.

If I were the kinda guy who gave out gold, I would give you gold. Unfortunately, I'm not that kinda guy. Oh so we wait years when every other fucking triple A title is released on both? I'd much rather the game be delayed to make sure the PC port is done well.

I'd rather avoid the mess that was GTA IV If they hadn't confidently reconfirmed the release date less than a week ago, I wouldn't be so upset. I'm not that upset but I'm irked.  This exactly. I wouldn't have cared if they didn't reconfirm the fucking release date right before moving it again. Yeah, it's very odd. It must have had a lot of issues for that to happen, and they *had* to delay it rather than the "They're just making it the best port ever" PR speak. I think the reaction is more from Rockstar coming out recently and saying "IT'S NOT DELAYED GUYS", reconfirming the release date and then dropping this information on us two weeks before release delaying it by more than a month. Surely this kind of decision was known well in advance. It's two completely different sets of people with hard opinions on both sides. Reddit isn't only one person. It's actually only two - me and you. Everyone who isn't you on here, is me. Or a bot I programmed.  Different people are saying those things.  You can't call a year and a half rushed Its almost like a community has multiple people with different opinions. They're just screaming the loudest. Us patient ones just clicked out, shed a tear, and adjusted our calendars as such. I totally get your point man. But I guess it has something to do with it being announced 2 weeks before its announced date. 

Oh well, I guess I won't be getting gta v as a valentines gift from the gf. Are you sure those are the same people? Because from what I can see the community is very large and it is easy to have differing opinions on a subject.  R* be playing with my emotions man ;( But in all seriousness this is the 2nd delay for PC I think. And announcing a delay 2wks before release, when all the hype was building up... yeah that sucks for us PC guys. It seems to be a good port atleast. These kids need to go back to when I had a team fortress 2 preorder... then we'll talk about delays. Most everyone probably knew about/expected this but

&gt;Other requirements: Installation and online play requires log-in to Rockstar Games Social Club (13+) network

Considering my experiences with GFWL in GTA IV and RSC with Max Payne I'm waiting at least a week after release to see how well that extra layer of DRM works out you have to log onto RSSC on every version of the game. Max Payne 3 had social club, it was very unobtrusive.  Same with LA Noire. Eh, whatever, I've waited this long already.  The screenshots look sick and if it takes two more months to make the game optimized for what look to be very modest system requirements, so be it.  Not a console gamer so while I wish the releases were concurrent, PC is my platform and I don't have much choice but to wait.  At this point though, I am expecting a flawless port with excellent performance and no 50GB launch day patch.  [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] It would be les annoying if they hadn't spent the last week denying the rumors about a delay and insisting the January date was on schedule. A broken port is unlikely to ever be properly fixed. Delaying is the best thing to do in all situations. [deleted] That's what sucks the most. We'd already waited a 1yr 4ths and now it's delayed again! We were soo close :(  I don't know why people are constantly surprised regarding the size of these games. Literally every game hence forth is going to require 40GB+ install size, because both of the current gen consoles have blu-ray drives. Therefore instead of running off a blu-ray you're going to need storage capacity of a blu-ray on your HDD. But the reason for doing so have been stupid. TITANFALL had massive audio files and AC UNITY had massive lighting files. They could get the size lower if they tried.  The problem is that these inflated size are only a result of poor compression because they don't have to compress stuff as much anymore.  Also, a lot of people in america are still using 15-20mbit connections which means ~1.5ish mb/s downloads.  It's not fun how games are starting to take all day and night to download. The comments on that page... These are your future Assassin's Creed pre-orderers.

"we are the fans, we going to buy then so listen to what we have to say: we want the game now!" Oh man, there's something special in the feeling of looking at the specs of an upcoming game and knowing, that your PC will blow it out of the water easily. I have been waiting for that feeling far too long.

Kinda sad it's in the end of March though. I vaguely remember someone telling it will be end of January for PC. Why did they feel the need to re-enforce it's release date though!? This is super frustrating. On the other hand, the rec. specs are ok at best for a game this size. I can't imagine running it with too many mods however. Exactly, I think it was only two days ago as well, why bother when they had to know they were delaying the game and announcing it this soon? It was about a week ago (around the 5^th ) that they "re-confirmed" the January 27^th date. &gt; the rec. specs are ok at best

You're kidding right? This is pretty much as good as it gets for a game like this..  Right?! The Witcher III specs had me worried, since I was worried GTAV would follow along, and be next to impossible to play. But my build should run GTAV no problem if they are right.
 Wasn't the statement that they had not announced a change and not that it was confirmed it wasn't going to change?

Edit: I stand corrected, they did in fact re-enforce the release date. See [this](http://www.reddit.com/r/Games/comments/2saadk/gtav_pc_new_release_date_first_screens_and_system/cnnmuv4) comment. Yes, but what was the point of that? Yes, people were doubting the release date, but they couldn't have waited 2 more days to tell us that they had, in fact, pushed back the release date? It's just frustrating is all. http://www.pcgamer.com/rockstar-re-confirms-grand-theft-auto-v-launch-date/


"GTAV will be coming to PC on January 27th," Rockstar wrote. "We have not announced any changes to the date at this time." Disappointed, but if its a good port then its worth it. Just by looking at the specs, looks like its not like unity specs at least.  Damnit, The Witcher then GTA... I guess it will be worth the wait but it's really getting hard to find games in the meantime ! It seems so freaking bizarre that 5 days ago they announced GTA:V was coming along on schedule and would be out Jan 27th, and then today they push it back *two months*? What do you mean new release date? Didn't they just reconfirm the original release date like a week ago... [deleted] &gt;GTA Online for PC, which will support up to 30 players

30 players seems a bit low, anyone else? It was 16 for previous gen  [deleted] It's 30 on current gen consoles and I've never seen a lobby with that many people in it. 

Most I've ever seen was a 22 player race and it was pretty hectic. I regularly see 24+ people in free mode lobbies. Keep in mind that third-party online communities like SA-MP and MTA:SA (we don't speak of GTA IV) has thousands of active players still, and a lot of those are probably waiting for GTA Online to PC. 

In those third-party servers, often 500+ players play simultaenously.

I'd love to see the cap increase to ~60 players, seeing as the world is a bit smaller, and there's not too much to do with an overfilled server. I think 30 should be about right. Even in the first gen version of the game with only 16 players there was a healthy amount of chaos. More doesn't mean better. Furthermore their servers may not be able to handle more than 30 players. It's not necessarily a client thing.  Wasn't this supposed to be developed along side the console version?

What the hell happened? Rockstar happened. PC has always been an after thought for them, even if they say it's not.  alright it sucks but i can wait

this better be the best god damn port we have ever seen in the history of PC gaming but somehow i really doubt it will be that, please prove me wrong Honestly I don't give a fuck how much DRM is on this thing, I've been waiting so long to play this game. And I'm satisfied with the specs not being too crazy. Really hoping for a great port. Still stoked.

This will also be the first GTA game I play on PC so I'm looking forward to modding the shit out of this thing once I've beaten it :D **New Release Date:** March 24, 2015

**Minimum specifications**:
OS: Windows 8.1 64 Bit, Windows 8 64 Bit, Windows 7 64 Bit Service Pack 1, Windows Vista 64 Bit Service Pack 2* (*NVIDIA video card recommended if running Vista OS)

Processor: Intel Core 2 Quad CPU Q6600 @ 2.40GHz (4 CPUs) / AMD Phenom 9850 Quad-Core Processor (4 CPUs) @ 2.5GHz

Memory: 4GB

Video Card: NVIDIA 9800 GT 1GB / AMD HD 4870 1GB (DX 10, 10.1, 11)
Sound Card: 100% DirectX 10 compatible

HDD Space: 65GB

DVD Drive

--------

**Recommended specifications**:
OS: Windows 8.1 64 Bit, Windows 8 64 Bit, Windows 7 64 Bit Service Pack 1

Processor: Intel Core i5 3470 @ 3.2GHZ (4 CPUs) / AMD X8 FX-8350 @ 4GHZ (8 CPUs)

Memory: 8GB

Video Card: NVIDIA GTX 660 2GB / AMD HD7870 2GB

Sound Card: 100% DirectX 10 compatible

HDD Space: 65GB

DVD Drive I wasn't expecting such reasonable minimum specs for the graphics card. The game came out originally on last-gen consoles, you can probably scale it back to those levels if you so choose. Same here! Though they were going to be asking for mid range 7xx's at least. The ridiculous thing is, GTA V will probably run better and look better than GTA IV would on the exact same hardware I trust this will be the case.  GTA IV still runs like crap even on modern high-end hardware. Even the recommended specs are very reasonable. I wonder if you can really run it maxed @ 60fps with a GTX 660. Hell, I was wondering if my 670 was going to make the minimum requirements.  It's (slightly) above recommended specs! Definitely not with AA or Supersampling. Maybe you'd even have turn shadows down but I'm sure it's very reasonable to suggest you could hit 1080p/60FPS with a 660.  Makes me happy that I have a 660. Probably not I feel like, I just replaced my HD 7870, it got like average 40 fps when maxing out Arkham Origins and struggles with Assassin's Creed IV, handled Bioshock Infinite like a dream though. I just replaced it with a R9 280X which has blown me away and  I am very excited to see what it can do with GTAV.

it is funny though to see the recommended requirements as i am running an i5 3470 as well. :p I've got a 640 GT 3gb....Im screwed arent I? Beyond reasonable, the 9800 GT is a rebranded 8800 GT which came out in 2007 as a $200 mid-range GPU. And that's just about the equivalent of what PS3 ran it on. I would expect a similar level of detail. 65 gigs, holy crap Eh, not that bad. HDD space on requirements are always 10-15 maybe 20 GB over at times. Watch_Dogs was 25 GB, yet the game was only 14 GB or so. I will safely assume the game will be around 55 GB on PC. The problem for me isn't about the size on the HDD, it's about the possibly huge download which will take forever with my crappy internet.  Steam allows you to download a game elsewhere, create installation files and then move those files to a different PC. Perhaps you have a friend or relative with faster Internet. Thank you for this suggestion. I own a laptop, so i could download it somewhere else, that might actually work. We'll see :D University and public library networks are often unusually fast, at least in my experience. The download is going to be much less. It needs that much space to uncompress smaller files. Let's hope for the best Yeah thats why im most likely getting a retail copy. New games retail for around 50 here and since it is based on steamworks it helps me out a lot because of my 1.5/0.2 mbs down/up speeds That's not Rockstar's problem, no? Since i can buy it on disk it isn't no. If they were only releasing it digital then i'd have a problem with them. 

I'd still appreciate if they tried to reduce filesize (i know compression can only do so much). Also, i don't know how much the download will be, maybe they already heavliy compressed it.  If consumers have a hard time accessing your product, it is their problem. Maybe not their fault, but it is their problem. So it's Rockstar's problem why ISP's have shit speeds? No, it's not. If your product isn't accessible for consumers, it's your problem. And I never said it was their fault, which you are implying. &gt; So it's Rockstar's problem why ISP's have shit speeds? No, it's not.

This isn't implying it's their fault.

The product is just as available to other consumers with higher speeds. Anyone can access Steam, except maybe North Korea, so now it's Rockstar's problem that North Korea has no internet? This is EXACTLY what you are saying. Holy extrapolating Batman.

&gt;So it's Rockstar's problem **why** ISP's have shit speeds?

The usage of why, to me at least, indicates that you are tying Rockstar to ISP's having slow speeds.The word you were probably looking to use is 'that', and while I may have took your words too literally, the words are all I have to go on.

If a product is hard to access, it is the providers problem and they have to consider it. It's fascinating you can't accept that.

 I thought the same. Would be good if they would let us download now. I'll be ready in March, maybe April. Might be better to buy it on disk when it's released.  the extra space could be for the decompression as you would have to have space enough for the compressed and uncompressed version until decompression is complete. Oh god, Watch Dogs. Pls, no Watch Dogs, it hurts. It was the first thing I thought of. It's not the only game that does this, it's pretty much all games. Quit circlejerking. It wasn't even that bad. [deleted] Or half of a modded one.  That's only like maybe two and a half to three hours to download - not bad at all. Man that's awesome. I was really worried about my GT440. I haven't even played GTA V because I wanted to play the PROPER version (PC).
Now that they have pushed it back another 2 months I just feel let down.

But what the hell, what can another 2 months do... I have already waited 1,5 years... &gt;but the game requires a few extra weeks of testing and polish to make it as good as can be

**It's not "a few weeks", it's 2 fucking months**

I understand that they need to sort the game out a bit more, but don't piss on us and call it rain I don't understand why all of a sudden now there's such a huge issue that they need to push it back even further, especially almost last minute before release too. That's what pisses me off. Wouldn't have been such a let down if they would've planned ahead and said they need even more time ahead of time. not 2 weeks before its supposed to be ready. Hell, if they gave themselves more time beforehand, they probably wouldn't have to keep pushing the date back 3-4 times just to disappoint people every time. People would have been more okay if it wasn't so last-second. They were two weeks form launch. This drastic change was not something "sudden," it was a delay they must have been expecting to announce for some time. You seem to know a lot about what's happening at rockstar.

It could have been something simple such as adding a final feature that broke large parts of the game.  I hope you're not right, as that would be a sign of *very* poor development. If you're adding a feature that can break a game that late, your product was fucked from the start.

Which is why, given the circumstances and process of major software development, I'm inclined to believe they made a last-second decision not to release a broken product. &gt; I don't understand why all of a sudden now there's such a huge issue that they need to push it back even further

Software can be a complicated beast, especially games. Sometimes what appears to be a simple code problem ends up involving major rewrites that impact other parts of a system.  Corporations are big. A lot of discussion has to be had, and a lot of approvals to be made. "Is it good enough?" "Would this impact a lot of people?" "Can we release it now and fix it post-launch?" The greatest usage I can remember them getting out of this was being able to use Yamcha's spirit ball thing to bust some blocks in a circle with your analogue sticks in their Budokai games.

Could be neat to see some new toys or gimmicks. Bayonetta lets you practice combos in between loading areas. It's pretty damn helpful actually. I'd love to see this similar to what was in Smash online to practice SF and MK combos. In SF you can go into Training Mode and put fight requests on, so it searches for ranked games while you practice. Yea. I know. Not exactly the same.

Like my buddy who plays really regularly, he wants it so he can practice moves against the character pick of him opponent. He uses Chun in some situations and uses Rose in others and different combos against different characters.

Just warming up inputs directly prior to a match would be useful. What they should really do is allow you to button check during loading screens. The Wonderful 101 has this too. Too bad Lego City Undercover didn't have anything like this to help kill the long loading times. It was also a great way to hide their ridiculously long loading times. Okami had a mash the button and a timing minigame to gain a type of resource that let you buy some passive abilities. It must have been licensed because the minigames were missing from the Wii and PS3 ports. They weren't licensed. I'm pretty sure the minigames were missing because the load times on Wii and PS3 were way faster than on PS2 and thus the minigame wasn't needed anymore.  But not in the Wii version, for some reason. Ridge Racer had Galaga. So did Tekken I think. It actually had Galaxian which was the predecessor of Galaga. Also Galaxian is generally more loved by the oldschool arcade crowd than Galaga.  I always personally preferred Galaga, beyond all the general improvements the ship just handles muuch better, and you don't only get one shot Was it a persistent game of Galaga? No, and you can't even go past the first stage before it forcibly loads in Ridge 7 I think that was in Budokai Tenkaichi 3. 

You could also mash a button to make Goku eat and Vegeta... do push-ups or something.



It was strangely fun! It was in all of the Budokai games. Flying around as master Roshi on his spinning turtle thing was pretty cool too. Test Drive had pong. Did they actually make any money from this patent?  Seems like they just ensured we had non-interactive loading screens for 20 years. [deleted] [deleted] So I'm really curious here...

What other patents like this should be on the lookout for? Crazy Taxi has one for the navigation arrow and some other gameplay stuff.  Sega (patent holder) had a dispute that was settled out of court with Simpsons Road Rage after they copied the system. For those who don't know, apparently that's just a 3d arrow rendered at the top of the screen. ~~It's a compass.. They patented the idea of putting compasses in games.~~: More sophisticated than that. It's more like it points along the path you should be travelling, rather than just pointing at your target, it also jumps to waypoints when you're close enough to them which is without utility but pretty good design. And it was awful. Following the compass in Crazy Taxi was a fool's errand. The in-world directions a la Saints Row are much better. Yeah, 80 % of Crazy Taxi was just learning the map. Fighting the controls was another huge part. Thanks to GPS, that is probably harder than driving a real taxi. [I know that Naughty Dog/Sony has a loading patent as well.](http://www.google.ca/patents/US6764403) Andrew Scott holds the patent, he is the co-founder of Naughty Dog.  

&gt;A system and method are disclosed for dynamically loading game software for smooth game play. A load boundary associated with a game environment is identified. A position of a character in the game environment is then monitored. Instructions corresponding to another game environment are loaded into a memory when the character crosses the load boundary, such that game play is not interrupted.

&gt;In accordance with the invention, a system and method are disclosed for dynamically loading game software for smooth game play. A load boundary associated with a game environment is identified. A position of a character in the game environment is then monitored. Instructions corresponding to another game environment are loaded into a memory when the character crosses the load boundary, such that game play is not interrupted.   

&gt;In a system according to the invention, an environment management engine is configured to identify a load boundary associated with a game environment, monitor the position of a character in the game environment, and load instructions corresponding to another game environment into a memory when the character crosses the load boundary. At least two memory segments are configured to store instructions for the game environment and to receive and store the instructions corresponding to the other game environment.

TL:DR: There are Loading Spots in the game world. Once you get to these spots the next area that you're supposed to go is loaded to a certain memory of the console, without having to pause the gameplay. When you get to the next area the memory containing its information is accessed.  

This is the reason why The Last of Us and if I recall correctly Uncharted 2 and 3 only have loading screens when you boot them up.  How the fuck could they get a patent on that? Plenty of games use 2 zones. How do you think they make open world games, most of the times 9 zones. 
Why did they invent multi treading? So shit like this is possible on the most standard level. [deleted] Welcome to the world of software patents. Naughty Dog probably patented their implementation more to protect themselves from lawsuit than to actually enforce it, and other pieces of software probably did something very similar before hand. These broadstroke patents that developers could arrive at independently shouldn't be protectable like this. It holds the medium back as a whole. Plus I highly doubt Andrew Scott was the first to invent it, he was just the first who had the resources to patent it.  It holds back far more than the medium of video games. Software patent trolling is a serious issue in the tech industry that has crippled many a startup. There's an excellent This American Life episode on it. 

[Episode 1](http://www.thisamericanlife.org/radio-archives/episode/441/when-patents-attack)

[Episode 2](http://www.thisamericanlife.org/radio-archives/episode/496/when-patents-attack-part-two) Still only 30min in, but really enjoying it. Thank you. Do you have a link to the TAL episode? There are actually two episodes on it.

[Episode 1](http://www.thisamericanlife.org/radio-archives/episode/441/when-patents-attack)

[Episode 2](http://www.thisamericanlife.org/radio-archives/episode/496/when-patents-attack-part-two) Awesome. Thanks! Forget developers, I figured that was how almost every open-world game loaded, it doesn't take a genius to come up with a method like this In 50 years (assuming we don't ever do to patents what we did with copyright, god help us all) most broad patents will have been registered and then expired. I do wish it would happen sooner than later, but at least we know our children and grandchildren will live in a better software patent environment. Given the rush to patent "X... on a phone!"  where X is something old or obvious after smartphones took off, expect a rush of "X... in VR!" type patents if the Rift takes off. Maybe I'll patent "any result that follows its cause after an interval, the consequence of some effort or action"

Nobody will be able to do anything without paying me Or patent "patent trolling." Until a paradigm shift in video games means that all new broad patents can be made. That patent pretty much describes how all consoles and computers before the PS1/N64 load the level. Take, for example, the NES. The NES has a sort of 'buffer' (called the name table) to load tiles into in the picture processing unit (PPU). This name table is slightly bigger than the size of 4 times what is displayed on the TV screen (though often only 2 times unless the game manufacturer added extra ram to the carts). For example, here is the nametable for Super Mario 3 (you can view this yourself in most emulators):

https://i.imgur.com/VBT7YwL.png

I've outlined roughly where the screen is in red. Notice how the left half and right half of the name table are identical, because of the mirroring I mentioned earlier. On a side note, the fact that this is mirrored, and the fact that name table palette ram affects 4 titles instead of 1 due once again to memory prices, causes the discoloration of tiles around the borders of the screen when playing Mario 3, because palette information 'leaks' over from one side of the screen to the other. This is usually hidden by overscan but on newer TVs it is very visible. Cool stuff.

So basically as you move the game loads 1 tile or so of memory at a time before the screen scrolls over it, every time the player moves beyond the boundary of 1 tile. Enemies and other items are typically loaded here as well. I'm surprised no one on the team who submitted the patent knew about this prior art, because it is found in just about every early computer or console which supports background scrolling.
 &gt; I'm surprised no one on the team who submitted the patent knew about this prior art, because it is found in just about every early computer or console which supports background scrolling.

I'm more concerned that the idiot judges who ruled on this are so uneducated in the field that they don't know this.  Breathtakingly incompetent. Because patent laws are a pain in the ass. Every time this comes up, I say what a friend that works as a patent clerk told me. It's easier to just approve the dumb ones and let two companies argue and sue each other over it than it is to say no and then have said company challenge it with really arbitrary bullshit over the span of 5 years costing tax payers money in both legal fees, ~~court fees~~ probably not court fees but whatever expenses they had to pay to go sit in on discussions about why it was denied with lawyers (Or who ever they sent), and paying the clerks to have to go and argue why it's dumb.

Years ago he used to say the worst offenders were Apple as they kept trying to patent the dumbest, broadest stroking shit. He used to throw it back at them going "This is fucking stupid" and then he and his supervisors got tired of having to go waste time with lawyers who then had to go talk to the Apple lawyers who were intentionally wasting their time and all this shit. This is why there is such broad stroke patents, companies intentionally do it and then they intentionally waste tax payer money to argue it. They know that smart clerks will just say fuck it and make situations like where Samsung and Apple waved dicks at each other for 5 years before anything is resolved instead of making it 5 years of Apple waving their dick at the US Federal system before they cave, which then leads to another 5 years of Apple and Samsung waving it at each other.

Edit: Everything I'm saying is anecdotal at best as explained by a friend as to why his job/the entire system frustrates him. I apologize for any inaccuracies as they are due to my misunderstanding or his simplification of the process while explaining it to me (As I don't work in an even remotely related field)  &gt;  he and his supervisors got tired 

They got tired of having to do their job? Their job has conflicting goals. On one hand, you have to reject bad patents. On the other hand, you need to avoid corporations challenging your rejection because your department has to pay the lawyers who are fighting it. If you can't fight it they win anyway, so your rejection was meaningless.

There is only so much of their job that they can realistically do. Is it really surprising that they would get tired of constant attrition? Pretty sure the US patent office is self funded by the fees they charge for filing patents... Yeah not sure what you're talking about with wasting taxpayer money. The PTO is the only profitable government agency because you have to pay them to spend any time looking at anything.

You pay $280 to file your patent and you get two shots at convincing the examiner why you deserve a patent. After that, if you want to appeal a patent examiner's decision you pay $540 plus another $540 if you want to file a brief explaining why you think you're right and another $1080 if you want an oral hearing. Alternatively, you can pay $1200 to just have the examiner give you another two shots at convincing him. 

Court is never involved with the actual process of getting a patent, and I've never heard of any patent examiner being subpoenaed in an infringement case. I'm curious what your friend was referring to.  I shit you not software patents get away with using words like ["Material Object"](http://vimeo.com/36881035). That video has a pretty good rundown on why both patents and copyright has kinda lost its way and doesn't server its original purpose anymore.  Sony owns Naughty Dog and Santa Monica Studios(God of War). They could use that patent for other games within their grasp. Who are they going to sue,themselves? Sony has sued itself in the past What for?  The music division sued their movie division for using a song without the rights or something, I can't remember the exact details.  &gt; The music division sued their movie division for using a song without the rights or something, I can't remember the exact details.

To be more accurate, [a group that Sony Music is a part of (RIAA) sued a company that Sony partially owned (Launch.com) due to online streaming](http://knowledge.wharton.upenn.edu/article/sony-vs-sony/). Dungeon Siege had something like this too, and it was released in 2002. Perhaps a case of prior art, as it had been in development for awhile by then. I have no clue. Maybe I'm misunderstanding, but that seems like a very specific loading technique that's commonly used. Unreal heavily supports this, which they call "Level Streaming". I don't really understand how you could patent a technique- unless its the very technical details that are locked down.  The posted text is not the entire patent. You cannot patent ideas, you patent methods. If you want to know the specifics, you should actually read the entire patent. The things in the quotes are not part of the claims, which are what define the scope of the patent. If you look at the first claim, it is much, *much* more narrow than this. Just by looking at it, I can tell that there are probably some words in there that you have to go back to the specification to get the full meaning of, and there is probably a lot of prosecution history where the lawyers and the examiner worked out what everything meant, even further narrowing the scope.

 Its pretty much standard in wow. The game loads as you walk across the zone. That's why so many of the "borders" between the zones tend to be dead looking, atleast in vanilla. What happens differently in an open world game then? I think something similar happens to games such as GTA:SA, GTA IV and V and any modern open world games. The world is loaded when you first boot the game. But it's not the same as ND games because there are loading screens for missions and certain cutscenes, as an example. Reading this patent I think that it's impossible not to because there is no way how for the game to predict that you're going to start a particular mission, therefore it can't be previously loaded to this "memory." But as long as you don't start any mission you can explore the map without loading times because it's already loaded.

I remember that GTAs older than San Andreas had loading screens when you crossed bridges. That's why I think that newer GTAs have a *similar* technology.  That sounds like how the Elder Scrolls games handle loading. The world is divided into rather small cells (a few hundred feet square) and the game, by default, only loads the cells directly around the character. When you pass into a new cell the ones you moved away from are dropped from memory and the new nearby ones are loaded into memory. I assume most open world games are handled in a similar way, that's why you can sometimes see trees and other objects pop into existence as you approach.  I think that popping is generally less to do with memory, and more to do with the number of polygons onscreen- particularly with things like trees, where you'll have a few different tree models repeated a lot, they'll already be loaded (because there will inevitably be more of the same tree near you). Then the further away trees are a lower-resolution model (because when they're farther away it's harder to tell that they're a more efficient model) and after enough distance, usually just a flat picture of a tree. This saves a lot on the time it takes to render the scene, and if it's done right it's barely noticeable.

On the other hand some pop-in is definitely due to asset streaming (ID tech 5 and Unreal Engine textures, I'm looking at you) Usually pop-in is related to the draw distance. However, some games like Minecraft actually pop-in areas as they're loaded into memory. Not necessarily because the game can't draw that far, but because that "sector" of the game hasn't been cached yet. &gt; Instructions corresponding to another game environment are loaded into ***a memory*** when the character crosses the load boundary

Good thing my game loads the next level into more than 1 bit, otherwise I'd be infringing on this patent! Hell, Jak and Daxter did this! That's the first game I can recall thinking "where are the loading screens?" while playing, because they don't exist.

Edit: I know that J&amp;D is Naughty Dog. I'm saying that they did this all the way back in early PS2. Back when Crash Bandicoot: Wrath of Cortex (not made by ND) was heavily criticized for the lengthy loading screens, their new game had none on the same system. That's amazing to me that they could get this working back then! Well yeah. It's Naughty Dog's patent, why wouldn't they have put it into Jak and Daxter? Made by the same  production house Does Halo not get in trouble for this? There's a very clear "Loading...done" when you hit load zones during campaign Halo's release pre-dates this patent being filed, and its development certainly does as well :)

Not that this *necessarily* saves you, but it probably helps. Isn't this exactly how the metroid prime trilogy handled loading? No, the doors were the loading screens. Is this why in some areas the door would take three or four seconds to open? Yep. Areas stored in slower-reading sections of the disk will load more slowly. And larger areas. And rusty doors. Sort of. There are [loading-zone boxes around every door](https://twitter.com/MilesSMB/status/532778577075638272) that trigger loading of the room beyond the door, which is the kind of thing the patent describes. In terms of *loading,* doors just prevent you from entering an area whose textures and events haven't fully loaded; [you can actually get around them, and the next room's geometry is already there even if the room isn't fully loaded](http://youtube.com/watch?v=vp7pSoh0GuE&amp;t=14m2s) (watch for power beam shots that hit invisible walls at room boundaries). Doors also serve other purposes, such as updating your position on the in-game map and triggering events when you enter the room, which is why you still have to trick the door into thinking you're going through it if you're moving around out of bounds, but I wouldn't call them loading screens.

The elevators between areas, however, are actual loading screens. Yup, came here to point that out about the loading boxes. The doors, themselves, didn't *trigger* the loading of the next area. That just happens when you get close enough. 

I think Retro should have made a good chunk of those zones a lot larger, because they could have very easily shaved off a LOT of loading time overall if they triggered the loading event earlier. Finally fixed in Dolphin IIRC There wasn't anything broken about it before, before it didn't emulate how long a disk read would take on actual hardware and just fetched the data as quickly as it could from your hard drive, leading to the doors opening nearly instantly. Now they've emulated the read speed accurately (with a toggle if you want to just load fast) so speedrun out of bounds tricks are possible like they normally are in the game. Same as spyro the dragon when he went up on the flying platforms if im not mistaken Except Zoid, one of the Retro developers who worked on the game, said that they also incorporated invisible loading zones that trigger the next room to load as well, before you reach the door. It was handled the same way practically, but TLOU was a little more subtle about it, the loading zones occurred each time you passed a one way obstacle (dropping down off a ledge, a door locking behind you etc), and for the most part they tended to follow each of those up with a distraction so you'd forget or not notice that you'd just passed a one way checkpoint.  
  
The MP trilogy had doors, and you knew each time you went through one you'd just gone through a loading zone. Good point. I was more thinking of the few instances where you would have to get on a seemingly pointless elevator to get up to a height that's more than accessible by a double jump The Jak games had this too. If this were painting, it would be like patenting mixing red and white paint to make pink. I think most companies got around this by putting in absurdly long elevator/door opening times without forcing the player to go through a load screen Konami has a patent on rhythm gaming that involves pressing keys in time with a display with an output of sound (think beatmania, guitar freaks, popn music etc).

They have sued two Korean companies: Pentavision, the creators of DJMAX, and Amuse  World, the creators of EZ2DJ. Konami settled with Pentavision for licencing and distribution for Japan, while Amuse World paid damages and was forced to cease production.

Konami has also sued over Guitar Hero and Rock Band, but I can't remember the result off hand.

One work around to this patent is using charts with no audio feedback, with is much less interesting. When the law suit was still pending, pentavision released a game where ANY button input would work per note, which was awful. 

Konami also has a patent on stage dancing games related to DDR. They won a lawsuit ending the production of In The Groove, an American arcade game. They gained the rights to this series, but they are just sitting on it. They tried to also sue over the Korean game Pump It Up, but they lost because the five arrows managed to be different enough.

Many of these rhythm games have brought lots of innovation to the genre, while konami's games have remained fairly formulaic with little change over decades. They stifle all competition in the genre globally, and rhythm game fanatics have an inside joke of "Konami will sue," which, unfortunately, seemingly always happens.

Tl;dr, konami has a monopoly on rhythm games and is not afraid to take advantage of it No one should own an entire game genre. That's absurd.  I was personally very surprised to not see it listed in the Gamasutra article about the most important gaming patents. I think most people on the west don't know about it, because most Eastern rhythm games (including many of Konami's) never saw the light of day in the West and it wasn't much of issue until Guitar Hero and Rock Band So many horseshit patents. They really need to crack down on this shit. You should only be able to patent truly unique, innovative things. Yep. While Beatmania was revolutionary in 1997, and DDR after, the patents are insanely broad and strictly enforced. Quite a few of my favorite series have met an early death :( DDR Freak used to be huge! But then nothing happened with the scene and it went stale. Everything is now locked. I really hate how Konami let DDR die like that. What happens with games like Rock Band and Guitar Hero? I guess Rocksmith can use the excuse of it being for learning I mentioned that Guitar Hero and Rock Band got in legal trouble too, but I wasn't sure of the specifics because I'm a bigger fan of eastern rhythm games. It looks to me that Activision paid Konami royalties so Guitar Hero could use the patents, and I believe Konami also produced the arcade version. Rock Band's suit against Harmonix ended on an undisclosed settlement. 

Edit: mixed up company names Konami will sue Nintendo had one on DPads, but luckily that already expired. You can see that on the Xbox One. Nintendo has a patent for Z targeting This would explain why that type of mechanic is so frustratingly underused in genres that would hugely benefit from a better target/focus system. 

What I want to know is... Why the hell didn't Kid Icarus: Uprising use it? The controls in that game were such a mess... What's that? like in Zelda when you target enemy's by pressing the Z trigger, Nintendo patented the entire auto targeting system https://www.google.com.au/patents/US7281982?dq=nintendo+z+targeting&amp;hl=en&amp;sa=X&amp;ei=ONK0VNGVJIOvmAXfvoHQBA&amp;ved=0CBwQ6AEwAA Being able to lock on to enemies in games. How specific is it? You could lock on to enemies in Dark Souls with R3. Namco's also got a patent on games where you roll objects up into a ball. The diagrams on that one are especially amusing.  Pretty sure Nintendo have a patent on ["sanity meter"](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Eternal_Darkness:_Sanity%27s_Requiem#Sanity_effects) mechanic. It's ridiculous.  If they did, they certainly haven't been enforcing it.  Tons of games have used that concept. Man... i remember back in the 80's having games with this feature on my Commodore 64, which had load times on cassette games of often around 7 minutes. Usually a very rudimentary space invaders or breakout clone, but it was awesome when you had to wait so long.

Edit: Found a link about [Invade-a-Load](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Invade-a-Load) which was on few c64 games That is awesome. Funny that this patent expires just as loading screens are becoming a thing of the past. As  PC gamer at least I can't remember the last time I waited more than like 3 seconds for a game to load. I don't even have time to read the game tips on loading screens anymore. Did anyone ever challenge this patent? I'm baffled by how it stood this long. 

I could see them patenting a specific interactive activity during loading screens, but *all* interactive activities? If that's patentable, then why hasn't someone patented the concept of video games in general?

I wonder if it's just that no one bothered to fight this because the idea isn't actually all that compelling. I believe video games in general were patented and licensing fees were paid into the 80's. I'm on my phone, but there was a recent obituary about the man who's essentially the creator of the medium and how he secured the patent. I think Nintendo challenged the patent and lost. http://www.gamasutra.com/view/feature/130152/the_ten_most_important_video_game_.php

No. 9 on this list most likely. I hate it when sites like that put an article on six fucking pages when each page I barely have to scroll, just to get more ad impressions. They *earn* my using AdBlock on them. No matter how desperate I am to view the content I never bother with sites like that, I immediately leave and never go back. Technically, it's not all interactivity. In Assassins Creed during loading screens you can run around and use your weapons. That's because, I believe, because you were playing what was essentially *the same game* during the loading screens, so you were exempt from either the "loading screen" classification or the "A separate minigame" one. Can't use weapons in AC IV :C you cant even control the main character in unity you just get a blacks screen with a logo spinning around  and it's SOOO FUCKING LONG. WTF?

Did they get *anything* right about Unity?!  Apart from improving the freerunning mechanics not really  I wonder how they would even define what counts as a game. In DMC3 you could attack the loading text by shooting/cutting it, and even knock it into the air. It's probably not technically a 'game', but from what I can remember in most Namco PS2 games their loading screen minigames weren't really any more involved than that. Maybe Namco just never bothered to challenge Capcom on it too... They actually had true mini games in their loading screens.  The big one I remember was the original Ridge Racer.  If you won the mini game, which was similar to space invaders, you would unlock a bunch of bonus cars.  

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WLJqWtnFkdY this video has the game though the guy playing is terrible at it.     Probably wasn't worth the time and effort.  They wouldn't make more money off it, no one is going to by a game just because a loading screen let's you play a simple game while you wait.   No, but people will talk about it if its an advertised feature. Builds more hype. If that actually means anything meaningful is anyone's guess though.  I think less loading screen periods would be a better advertised feature. This is a perfect example of why technology patents should have shorter lifetimes. (or alternatively, no software patents at all)

Because of SSD's and even current hard drives, the lifetime of this technique was really only ever useful to a single company. Now, what's the point?

Had this not been patented or had the patent been shorter, society could have benefitted from it. Update screens and connection to server screens can still take some time. Shorter lifetimes, sure, but patents could save startups from more successful companies stealing their ideas. Five years should be good enough for a patent to allow the first inventor time to capitalize. Protect them long enough to ensure time to capitalize is one thing, but twenty years is effectively forever in computer terms.

In 1995, the SNES and Genesis were still the game systems to have and the Playstation was brand new.

People were using Windows 3.1. Windows 95 didn't even come out until August.

Think about how many technologies and use cases have come and gone in that timeframe and how we could have made better use of some of those patented technologies before they became obsolete.
 Well yeah, thats why I said five years. I wasn't disagreeing, just expanding on what you said. &gt; This is a perfect example of why technology patents should have shorter lifetimes. (or alternatively, no software patents at all)

Out of all forms of intellectual property, which includes copyright, patents are by far the shortest. So, I do not think this is a reason to shorten its duration. They just need to have a better system of screening ridiculous patents.

 I think you got it backward: all intellectual property forms should have their duration shortened (drastically). Not everyone is playing on good PC setups, or even on PCs at all. So how has FIFA managed to get away with this for the last few years? It says in the article. They circumnavigated the patent by loading a part of the same game and being able to play it, not a new game purely for the loading screen.  Because it's the same as the menu I guess. Or they paid for it. You could play around in NBA live as well before they got rid of that franchise. About time. I remember when Mass effect 2 was announced and they said it would have interactive loading screens. Then they turned out to be normal loading screens. Obnoxious ones at that I might add. The shorter ones wouldn't let you play until the animation had played all the way through. Fortunately it could easily be modded. Then there were the elevator scenes... Oh fucking god, ME1, the elevator from C-Sec to the Normandy. Holy crap, absolutely hair-pullingly painful.

"Hm, maybe we should fill the silence somehow!"

*inserts 3 lines of random dialogue*

*elevator ride still takes 3 hours* I've heard all these complaints about the elevators in ME1 but never understood it until now. I thought 10-15 seconds was an ok load time for no real immersion breaking.

...but I play on an old but decently specced PC. Holy fuck. Yeah on PC they weren't an issue.  On 360 though they were apparently very long. They were totally an issue on a PC! I just re-played ME1 and couldn't stand the &gt;20 sec elevators. They're on a set time limit, apparently, because otherwise loading times were around one second. To each their own.  I found them to be more immersive than a loading screen.   Same here. Without them you're just going to be in an equally long blank screen. Might as well give you some kind of visual.  I'm pretty sure I was never in an elevator for more than 20 seconds and I didn't play on an SSD or anything super fancy. Anything less than what I remembered would have made those elevator rides pretty unrealistic for the size of the buildings. 

I thought they were pretty much the perfect loading screen. [This Article](http://kotaku.com/an-oddly-long-banter-filled-history-of-mass-effect-ele-472630862) timed a lot of elevators. The worst was the C-Sec to Docking bay on the Citadel: 51 seconds. Can confirm this was the case even on my brand new SSD. I believe they were fixed times instead of actual loading. I don't know what to say man, never seemed that long to me. I actually enjoyed them and never understood the hate, though I never put any thought into them being slower on consoles as I've never played ME on a console.

I fucking hate the load screens in ME3. I appreciate the way ME1/2 did it. They're primarily an issue on PC because the actual time needed to load the level is a tiny fraction of the elevator ride's duration.  The elevators are a fixed and equivalent length on both PC and consoles, but the duration of the ride is tuned to the loading times of the consoles.  I'm all for using clever tactics to mask loading, but your cleverness shouldn't *extend* the loading time. I liked the elevator loading screens. Better than a random irrelevant video. Also gave some opportunity for a little comical interaction between the followers. I liked those. Mass Effect 3 got rid of them, and it feels so much more natural in ME1-2 to have to wait 20 seconds in the elevator than it does to have the game cut away to a loading screen in ME3.

It actually had an effect on how I played, because I dreaded having to sit through a load screen, so I explored the ship less often. Logically, it's the same as sitting in the elevator in ME2, but psychologically, it really did feel better. In Tomb Raider they were really clever. They made Lara talk, or do some bullshit, so it seemed like the game wasn't loading.  never knew that.  thanks for the link

I would usually read the tips and advice on loading screens.

I modded my skyrim for the lore based loading screens and would enjoy part of a book.  I wouldn't mind playing a small space invaders match though.

I wonder if, with new hardware, load times are short enough that games between screens wouldn't be worthwhile. So they had a patent for something that was 'invented' way before they first even did it. How is this a thing? I've clearly missed something here. Were console loading games considered separate to home computer loading games? Patents and the laws surrounding them are very complicated and convoluted.   It depends on how the granted claims have been written.  If no prior art can be found which specifically matches the content of the claims, and if the content in the claims can be considered novel and inventive, then they can be granted despite *similar* inventions existing in the past.  For example, a patent could be granted where an entire thing is conceptually the same as an existing thing, but with a small improvement that could be considered innovative.

This is how patents are supposed to work - prior inventions can be incrementally improved, provided those increments take enough of an inventive step to be considered inventive.  It normally works well, but other factors mean that it doesn't work particularly well in software/gaming. It doesn't matter who created what, it only matters who has more money. If you invent a widget that does something unique and release it to the world without patenting it, anybody can then patent it and sue you. If you're poor you will have no recourse. I've always thought that that was a bullshit patent. It did nothing for gaming and it certainly didn't provoke sales. No one has ever thought "ooooo I'm going to by this Namco turd so I can play mini games during the load screens." 

p.s. I like namco games and I know they have plenty of great ones, I'm just annoyed that they did that.  When does Sega's in game navigation system of using an arrow in game expire? It expires in three years.

But what a stupid fucking patent!  Oh, no! There's a UI mod for the World of Warcraft that violates this patent. *Get me the red phone!* How can you patent the concept of having a game on the loading screen?

It's like patenting the ability to reload. I always found this hilarious even if it was annoying for other games. I think Sega even made parody of it in the late dreamcast release Segagaga where Namco has a patent that only they can use the word RPG. Does anybody know why that patent wasn't shut down? Prior art existed, Strike Commander CD for example had a Pong-like game you could play while loading. Likely those guys just didn't dispute it, because they never thought you could be that ridiculous, and patent such a concept. With my SSD in place, I barely have time to read the occasional tip that shows up, let alone play something. I feel like such a wanker when I complain about not being able to read any of the loading screens in time. Same here. It's first world problems in a nutshell, isn't it? Damn.  I remember how awesome it was to play a round of Gradius during halftime in Blades of Steel for NES.  I always wondered why that kind of thing wasn't more common.  Does that little match-3 game that plays when the Wii U eShop is loading mean that Nintendo's been paying Namco for the right to do that? The eShop isn't a game so I imagine not.  There's a slot machine game that you play while the nintendo eShop is loading, how are Nintendo getting around this?  Nintendo eShop is not a game though Where's my damn tekken vs street fighter namko!!? Huh!!? I'm really excited to see how developers get around the boredom of loading screens now. The Budokai series always stood out to me for those simple additions. Why are you allowed to patent something as vague as this? this just holds back innovation and encourages one company having strangleholds, which leads to monopolies.  Play games to pass the time?  Simply add "in a video game" and the old idea becomes brand new and patentable! As a game developer (in training), I'm looking forward to being able to explore this area. Giving the players something to do, no matter how lame or simple it is, will really help curb the downtime during loading zones. I understand that some games have already done this with practice rooms and camera interaction, but who wouldn't like playing Pong or a shitty 2D platformer for bonus score/gold/xp while a huge area loads? Simes 3 has a sort of hidden object game where you have to search for certain items in the image, granting you those lifetime award points that let you get upgrades for your sim. It's a pretty neat thing to include especially since loading can take a long time. Warframe does it really well. The loading animation is some ships flying in formation, sort of like Destiny's, only you can actually fly the ships. You obviously are pretty limited in what you can actually do, but each player controls one ship and you can move them side to side and up and down and stuff. It isn't much, but it really adds to the immersion  and also fits well with the game in general.  doesn't dota 2 have a minigame during loading for some time now ? [deleted] This is the patent: [US 5718632](https://www.google.com/patents/US5718632)

It specifically relates to the loading phase, so matchmaking is not covered by these claims. No, it's during queue time. Very different. No it has a memory quiz (select the components used to craft a given item) which you can play while in queue. It isn't during the loading screen (there is a static background which can be changed with cosmetics) which makes it not relevant to Namco's patent. Hmm, I'm guessing it doesn't count because Dota 2's minigame is presented during the matchmaking portion (finding other players to join, and is likely a server-side operation) rather than actually loading the game (which then happens after with a loading screen)

 I remember loading screen mini-games being very common in the 80s, but then again I chiefly grew up on Commodore 64 games.

I specifically remember that copies of Ghostbusters for the C64 had a loading screen game known as "Load Busters", which was Space Invaders with ghosts. Um, in the Sims 3 they have a mini search game where they tell you to find an item in the picture and you get points for your character...  But I remember an old C64 game that had a Space Invaders clone while it loaded. Why wasn't that prior art?  Prior art in the world of patents is irrelevant, it only matters who has more money. Hey look, just like copyrights, another system that is out of date and doesn't serve its original purpose. Didn't assassin's creed have a loading screen where you could run around in the void? Wouldn't that count? The patent is on "auxiliary games" played during the loading screen. Does running around a space as the main character of a game count as "auxiliary"? That's sort of up to interpretation, but Ubisoft probably felt safe with it. Also, if Namco brought Ubisoft to court over something as dubious as that, the legal system might realize how fucking stupid the patent is and invalidate it. When the PS2 was the best gaming  console available I cared. 

Can we just not have loading screens anymore? Rejoice! Never cared for Tekken, but id aways find myself getting into the shooter minigame when my brother would insist we'd play the game we'd actually bought. hope this becomes more of a thing. Listening Nintendo? Hopefully Grand Theft Auto Online will patch one in. That way I can spend 30 minutes of every hour playing Galaga instead of waiting. They could probably load GTA 1 to play during loading screens. This would have been useful on consoles when games take minutes to load. Loading times are very small these days. Most people don't have SSDs. Of course, thanks to SSDs becoming the new standard for hard drives, there are going to be no time to play these games because the game loads instantly. The loading screen minigame was partly supersceeded by being able to play while you downloaded the rest of the game. But that never really worked out for me in an MMO, if it did for someone else what game did it best in your opinion? 

Anyone know who owns the patent on playing while downloading it for the first time/when it will be up for renewal?

Also, a short pre-loading cutscene could be your character getting out a handheld gaming system and turning it on to play as them-playing.  Can't you do that with WoW and any Xbox one game? Yeah, that's what I mean by it's newer. I only did it with the Star Wars MMO. &gt; The general requirements for patentability are that the subject matter be patentable (you cant patent a novel, for instance)

This definition makes sense: http://s-ak.buzzfed.com/static/imagebuzz/terminal01/2010/8/26/8/anigif_sad-keanu-recursion-15772-1282826786-3.gif I remember in budokai 1 on the ps2 you could move the dragon radar around. we played on my friends older brothers ps2 and he would yell at us for doing that, thinking it would break his ps2 lol  Won't someone else just patent it? Oh for fucks sake. We fought so long and so hard for an R18+ rating and now they just refuse to use it. What the fuck. I've been looking forward to this game for ages and I hate pirating so I guess I just won't get to play it because some old people in a room decided a 24 year old man is not mature enough to handle it.  If this was a movie it would make headlines "Government Censorship - Big Brother Is Watching" but because it's a video game no one gives a shit. This is incredibly frustrating. If you were following the details on the new R rating this is no surprise. There were no changes to the guidelines regarding drug use and sexual violence. Just as many games will be banned as before due to those reasons. The only thing that is more lenient is general violence. At least they were being serious about the violence part, there hasn't been a single game that has been banned for violence since the new rating, while plenty of games were banned for that previously. It's just unfortunate shit is still getting banned for other dumb reasons. Sexualised violence has always been a big no-no in Australian classification; banning a game that features rape was to be expected even with R18+.

You can have sex, you can have violence, you just can not combine them without a good context; if deemed gratuitous it is banned.
 Absolutely. This is why it was always a stupid campaign. It did nothing to address the criteria to which games were being judged, namely that the ACB factored "interactivity" making the violence worse.

They openly acknowledge in their guidelines that they do this, not because scientific studies have shown interactivity increases the impact of violence (they haven't), but because the ACB reflects community standards - and the community believes games are more dangerous than film and are primarily consumed by children.

But everyone wanted a band aid fix so we wouldn't miss out on GTA V or whatever. Don't worry, I'm sure Tony Abbott will be keen to help us out on reform again hahahahaha fucking hell what a waste of a campaign. Well originally there was significant changes for drug use. Under the first set of draft guidelines any form of drug use was acceptable.

Unfortunately however Victoria and New South Wales had their state elections, both electing the Liberals to power meaning two new Attorneys-General who objected to the drug use changes, and we ended up with the borked R18 rating we have today. Yeah I followed the whole frustrating saga. I'm thankful though that it is easier than ever to buy these games regardless. Could someone in another country buy it and then gift it to you over Steam? Is such a thing even possible? We can easily buy from international retailers like ozgameshop.com (which despite the name, is actually british). It's probably a legal grey area, but they're cheaper and non-censored. No no, the game won't be banned in Aus, just censored I bet. And then you'll be able to download a patch that removes the censorship just like with South Park TSOT, practically making the censorship useless. &gt; I've been looking forward to this game for ages and I hate pirating so I guess I just won't get to play it 

Pirate it, stop seeding as soon as it is finished and then ask the developers for a donation link or something like that through email. I think they should be pretty cool about that because these are the guys that released an update for the torrented verion of their game as well. http://www.rockpapershotgun.com/2012/10/27/hotline-miami-aids-pirates-instead-of-murdering-them/

Edit: Apparently somebody did that and this was their conversation over email. http://i.imgur.com/Z84eDVa.png If you want to play it, torrent it and then donate to the developers whatever it's being sold for in the US. Simple.  Do think Australia will ever have a rating organization that isn't controlled by the government, like the ESRB? You guys alwaysseem to have this happen to you. The last time the US government got anywhere to getting involved in the industry was 2012.  Geez our classification board are a bunch of fucking idiots.
If they refuse to let me play a game because they deem it inappropriate then I shall be pirating it and not putting my money into our economy. What a bag of dicks. I never palm my face quicker than when a politician or someone on the fucking news bitches about how piracy is awful and how it needs to be stopped and ALWAYS fails to address the underlying problems of availability and cost.

I've sent emails to my local MP's and even state and federal to the same fucking reply from all offices. 

How loud do you have to shout?   Ringing them is way more effective than emails. 100 emails in a day and they don't bat an eyelid, 100 calls and they freak the fuck out. Even better, walk in to their offices. My Grandma did that three times with a Victorian state MP that I won't name, she is now banned from his office and I think he now has a restraining order against her because she hit him with her handbag.

Go Grandma. I don't doubt the mp was a cock, but I have a feeling gran might have been banned for more than just showing up three times. 

Edit: read this guy's response to me! Seeing as she allegedly physically assaulted the guy the visits sound like they were pretty rage-fueled. Old people aren't suddenly given the right to attack other people just because they are old. No, she hit him with her handbag when she saw him walking down the street because they wouldn't let her in his office any more. She went in to talk to him about something that I can't recall that was happening locally and he kept ignoring her and pretending he wasn't there, and then flat out just told the receptionist not to let her in. [deleted] Send a written letter asking for a response to a minister. They are required to respond in writing to you. They don't have to do that in response to phone calls.

Source: I have had to write ministerial responses. so you're saying they are required to have a lackey (no offense) respond in writing for them?  They probably scan for keywords and then spits one of the hundreds of "thank you for your input"  depending on the situation emails and automatically sends it back. Or at least sets it up for an intern to check and send. 

Phone is the much better option  A little louder than sending an email, perhaps.  [deleted] Snide remarks aside, one is a company that is free to make their own decisions, and generally make the decision they feel will make them the most money, the other is a set of government officials who don't have to answer to profit margins.

Remember, target is a publicly traded corporation that has legal obligations to their shareholders. They felt that a sufficient number of their customers were going to make an issue of it, so they responded. 

It is also not an action of equivalent significance. Many other retailers would love to sell you a copy of GTAV, Target is not a gatekeeper to American consumers like the AUS Classification Board. 

This is why it is so significant that there is no government body in the US with the power to "rate" media (If you say the FCC has that power, you don't understand what its purview is, look it up, its fascinating). And it isn't for lack of trying, but every time the government has come close, the industries have self regulated.

So that's why Gabe Newell can re-greenlight hatred no matter what anyone says, and why Australians have to pirate Hotline 2.  Can probably buy it DRM-free through something like GOG. If you need to use a VPN, so be it. To be fair, if you were going to buy it on PC. Odd's are very little money is going into our economy anyway.

Given that pricing on steam generally doesn't include tax in the states, it's dubious as to whether they pay out GST here either.

 Wouldn't Valve have to pay a tax though in Aus though? I know they do that in the States but not too sure if they are required to in other countries that they sell products in. In 2013, Apple paid $36 million in tax from $6 billion revenue in Australia. The big companies have ways around local taxes... I think there are two separate issues here, and I'm not sure which one you guys are discussing. There are corporate taxes paid by Valve, and then there are sales taxes paid by the consumer but collected through Steam. Sales taxes don't apply in Australia to online purchases (yet...). Yup, only &gt;$1k on purchases is GST applicable. Steam has 0 sales tax here. Until Half Life 3 comes out only in Australia and costs $1000.01 Does Steam collect sales taxes? In the U.S. collection of state taxes is mandated if a company has something called "nexus" in that state. For the most part, a company only has nexus if it has an actual brick-and-mortar presence in the state.

Since Valve is only in Washington and to my knowledge has no other B&amp;M locations, they only collect sales tax in Washington.

Note that doesn't mean you don't *owe* the tax. It's merely called a use tax at that point (ever heard the phrase "sales and use tax?") and you're supposed to keep track of your purchases and remit to the state every year when you file your taxes. No one does this, of course, so use taxes are only really considered on big purchases like cars.

For obvious reasons, states have been trying to expand the definition of nexus as online shopping gets bigger and bigger, with limited success. The companies, of course, lobby against it.

I know nothing about tax in Australia or other countries. They pay VAT (value added tax) in the EU. Until this year that was always the Luxembourg VAT (that's where their European company is registered because it has the lowest VAT rate) but I think now the law was changed and they need to pay the VAT of the country where the costumer is located (which means they pay more than they used to). Also in and before 2012, before they formed EU branch. Before they priced in EUR, VAT was added to dollar prices at checkout.
 *(For Australia!)*

No, as technically you are 'importing' the games, the sales are in USD$ and are considered to be made in USA.

If you managed to purchase more than $1000 of games in a single transaction, you'd technically be up for import duty (or rather 'guilty' of evading import duty) You don't pay GST on imports unless they're valued at $1000+ unless Valve is selling from Australia they wouldn't need to pay GST (nor should we be charged it). [deleted] Unclassified media cannot be sold within the country. It's still perfectly legal to own a copy, just buy it from another country. Implying they can stop you. Assuming the developers have a DRM version available for purchase from their website...buy it from their website. The developers get the money, and gamers get the game. If people were gonna wait for the console release...well..just get it on PC and play with a controller. It's not like any computer isn't gonna be able to play the game (What with all those graphics the game has). I was hoping I was going to be able to play it on my Vita because I like the control scheme. Now I can't. &gt; not putting my money into our economy.

Even if Valve does pay sales tax, the bulk of the money is still going overseas.

Arguably pirating it (which results in you spending your money on other goods, which most likely will involve a greater local cost) helps inject more money into the economy... No, no, no, when you pirate something, the money you would have spent on it if you paid disappears forever. That money is lost to anyone, which is why piracy is so damaging to the global economy. When that money disappears they have to print more money, which leads to hyperinflation and more deforestation as more bills are printed. 

If we all think like you we're going to all end up poverty stricken and living in the Arctic with 45C summers from the global warming. Sooooooooo...you're just going to save that money forever then?  That's a shitty argument. You can say the same thing about cocaine and machine guns - "they should be legal! If I want to get some I'll simply go out there and commit a crime and no taxes will be paid!".             
Good argument here is that a western, free country shouldn't dictate morality and ways of leisure of their citizens. And as an adult, he should be allowed to make his own decisions on if he wants to take cocaine or not...

It's true, if someone wants something bad enough they'll find a way to get it; the Governments may as well be making a profit from it. [Here's the implied rape scene that got the game banned](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=beUrlDwf56w&amp;feature=youtu.be&amp;t=56s). Basically Hotline Miami 2 seems to explore different interpretations of the first game. One being the copycats, exploring why people thought what happened in the first game was awesome. Kind of like why people would quote scarface and come out of the movie thinking he was the hero. 

The other interpretation explores the concept of violent shock media by having a director and actor(pigmask) re-imagine the things that happened in the first game as an exploitation film. Violence becomes entertainment and the original story (with jacket saving the girl) is changed into extremes such as implied rape. The (antagonist?) director also comments that both actors in the movie should confirm to gender roles he has set out.
   
While the subject matter is certainly heavy, the scene itself is not very graphic and also very short. It seems to try to address and deconstruct exploitation movies like [a Serbian film](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/A_Serbian_Film), which indeed feature graphic depictions of such heavy subjects. It's quite a bold move, and there's no telling of how it will work out, but I would consider adults capable enough to decide for themselves whether or not this game is worth playing.   
   
EDIT: Some sources claim it's a different scene, but if you look at the given details (lying face down, legs are viewed kicking, it being mid-screen, a red backdrop pulsating) you can clearly see it's the same scene. This here's the stupidest part. You can just watch it on Youtube anyway LOL. Same thing happened with the bits they cut out of the South Park game here Having the censored southpark was cool because Matt and Trey gave us aussies an exclusive message.  Was it funny? It had a picture of a koala crying and gave a shirt description of the cutscene. I found the descriptions funnier than the cutscene IMO.  They do that in the episodes sometimes now.  You'll be watching Cartman hunched over a toilet with his head in the bowl gagging, then it will cut to a black screen with elevator music. 

http://imgur.com/M8syvQD So wait, you're free to watch that content in a video, as long as that video isn't flanked by game play?  Those ideas have me even more excited for the game than I already was, fantastic. I don't understand how the same people calling for games to start dealing with more mature themes are the ones calling for games that explore those themes to be banned. &gt;In the sequence of game play footage titled Midnight Animal, the protagonist character bursts into what appears to be a movie set and explicitly kills 4 people, who collapse to the floor in a pool of copious blood, often accompanied by blood splatter. After stomping on the head of a fifth male character, he strikes a female character wearing red underwear. She is knocked to the floor and is viewed lying face down in a pool of copious blood. The male character is viewed with his pants halfway down, partially exposing his buttocks. He is viewed pinning the female down by the arms and lying on top of her thrusting, implicitly raping her (either rear entry or anally) while her legs are viewed kicking as she struggles beneath him. This visual depiction of implied sexual violence is emphasised by it being mid-screen, with a red backdrop pulsating and the remainder of the screen being surrounded by black.  
  
From this description it sounded like it sorta made sense to ban it (EDIT2: I meant according to aussie laws).  
But after seeing that clip its just a giant joke.  
I'm gonna bet whoever did the final decision didn't actually see the game footage and decided based on that.  
  
EDIT: I should add I had never heard of, or seen the game before.  
Based on the description I imagined it was a full-on 3D rape cut scene.  
  
EDIT 2: I couldn't give two shits wtf people play and I am completely against censorship/bans.  
One of my favourite stupid games is postal 2

 ? It's a fair description of the scene. Never heard or seen the game before, in my mind it was a full on 3D rape cutscene. A part from the fact that it isn't rape, it's a movie set... It's taken out of context. If Aussie laws ban a movie depiction of rape then I don't think a meta-depiction is going to change that. In both cases it's not real and actors are doing it. If they cared about whether they thought you were intelligent enough to understand it's a fiction then the law wouldn't even exist. &gt; From this description it sounded like it sorta made sense to ban it.

Why? It's a game. Should the government act as your parent, telling you what games you can and cannot play?  &gt; The (antagonist?) director also comments that both actors in the movie should confirm to gender roles he has set out.

What does this sentence mean? In the scene the director chides the Pig Man for not being aggressive enough and he chides the woman for not being more feminine and girly.

 Sounds like something a movie director would say... Confirm should be conform. Banned in Australia? That's how you know it's really good [List of banned video games in Australia](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_banned_video_games_in_Australia)

**Currently banned/censored video games:**

50 Cent: Bulletproof

Blitz: The League

BMX XXX

Dark Sector

Dreamweb

The Getaway

Leisure Suit Larry: Magna Cum Laude

Marc Eck's Getting Up: Contents Under Pressure

Manhunt

NARC (2005)

NecroVisioN

Postal

Postal 2

Phantasmagoria

Reservoir Dogs

Risen

Saints Row IV

State of Decay

Shellshock 2: Blood Trails

Silent Hill: Homecoming

Singles: Flirt Up Your Life

Soldier of Fortune: Payback

South Park: The Stick of Truth

Syndicate

The Witcher 2

Voyeur

**Games that used to be banned/censored:**

Aliens vs. Predator

Duke Nukem 3D

Fallout 3

F.E.A.R. 2: Project Origin

Grand Theft Auto III

Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas

Grand Theft Auto: Vice City

Grand Theft Auto IV

The House of the Dead: Overkill Extended Cut

Left 4 Dead 2

Mortal Kombat (2011)

Punisher, The

Sexy Poker

Shellshock: Nam '67

Tender Loving Care

 I remember Fallout 3; they had to change the name of Morphine.  That's it, that was the only problem.  Fucking idiots. Really?  Wow.  I mean, censorship is dumb in general, but imagining someone making the case that a real drug name in a fantasy game about an alternate-history-post-apocalyptic-future is just wild.  Someone had to say that with a straight face and pretend they weren't bullshitting.  And they're still doing it. They made the change worldwide. Morphine became "Med-X." Wow, didn't realize that. Kind of ruins it for me. I mean, I always just sort of shrugged off the term "Med-X", but if it had been something more relatable, like morphine... Idk, like, "shit, I'm hurt real bad, I need to take this fucking *morphine*." Eh, Med-X is more in line with the name scheme of chems in the Fallout universe. Calling it Morphine would have been inconsistent in the first place.  As a kid playing fallout 2, I read stimpaks as stempaks. I thought I was healing myself by injecting stemcells into my wounds so I could regenerate the tissue. God I loved that game. I like this better It does make sense, though, since morphine is a pretty good painkiller. If their intentions were to change it because they think kids are going to some how take morphine is ridiculous. That situation would never occur because morphine is pretty much only given in hospitals. If it was an over the counter opiate like codeine then at least they would have some argument, but this just doesn't make sense. Kids would've seen that Morphine gives you DAM Resistance (I think it was Med-X if I recall) and do Morphine, shoot cops and praise Satan, Ya know? Think of the children. The dumb stupid children with no one to teach them the difference between reality and fantasy, okay? But Fallout is rated so only people who are 17/18 and above can buy them. Why does it matter what kids will do if you enforce the rules regarding the distribution.  Not at the time. In fact, I'm fairly certain they're still 15+.  In America, Fallout is 17+ like it should be  There are lots of things in America that are restricted to 17+ that aren't here, especially your movies. For example, all the Die Hard films are the same rating - our equivalent of PG-13. Just differing values. Sounds like australia needs to work out that fine line between "wholesome family entertainment" and "not suitable for anyone under any circumstance." If it wasn't for using the word 'fuck' in it it would be pg-13 here too. America has pretty stupid profanity censorship.  The logic there makes my brain hurt. They say children will see these things and get the wrong impression. But it's a fucking r rated game. The point is that children won't see it.   We didn't have an R rating in australia at the time I'm rapidly beginning to believe that a lot of kids have a better grasp of the fantasy/reality line than their parents do. In a large portion of the cases this is scarily accurate. Grant Morrison, as much of an asshole as he is, made a good point at a panel one time.

We always say "kids don't know the difference between reality and fiction" but they do. If you point a kid at a Batman comic, or a game, they know it's made up. They know Batman is fictional.

But then you get adults reading comics or playing games, and they ask questions like "How old is batman?" or "How does this work?" They start trying to inject reality into it. 

It's adults who can't tell the difference, not kids. Damn game devs using the name of an addictive and effective painkiller to represent an addictive and effective painkiller! No, they also had to cut the animation of injecting yourself with the drugs. There was also heroin and a number of other real world drugs, both medicinal and recreational. There was a lot more changed than just the name of morphine.

Edit: And [HERE](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fallout_3#Regional_variations) is my source. You can buy Postal and Postal 2 on the Steam store in Australia since the release... &gt;Currently banned/censored video games: 

It's most likely censored then.

Edit: Never mind. Looks like it was put back up in 2012, and they haven't taken note of it. Censored or banned. Banned could also only apply to retail sales too. If you sell a game online, it also doesn't necessarily have to be rated, but to sell it in stores, it does.

Valve could go right over the Australian governments head and sell anything they want to Australians - if they wanted to - because the games aren't sold in a retail store.

Or, that would be my understanding of it. Then why did I have to look at that stupid censorship koala in South Park: The Stick of Truth? Wow

Mixed bag

There's a good amount of shit and quality in there I love that even though I'm Australian, I have played about half of these games in their unedited/uncensored form. Our country has such lacklustre culture in general and a fledgling video games and film market that is afraid to anything safe and this just doesn't help whatsoever.

The only people doing awesome things and making original content are digital content creators and people who move to the US after making a significant body of work.  Saint's Row IV, Really? Risen?? MARC ECKO'S GETTING UP: CONTENTS UNDER PRESSURE??? I don't understand why you're surprised by SR4.  Anal Probe weapon that uses people as rockets, alien narcotics, giant dildo bat, the "Sex" stuff if you can call it that, and.. Well a lot of other examples.

Edit: Spelling errors Only the first two reasons were why it was refused classification as an R18 title. After they were removed, along with coop with non-Aussie copies, suddenly the game is fit for MA15+  :/ Marc Ecko has its flaws, but I think it is an awesome game with an awesome concept and cool art, I loved it back then. I heard they are making a sequel. No idea why they'd ban it though. Inciting graffiti? Yup. Moral panic abounded and it got banned.  You have *got* to be kidding me.

There are seriously people who hear about a game about graffiti and think "oh, that'll make the kids want to do it", and they banned it?

I mean, *really*? I'm surprised Jet Set Radio wasn't banned as well going by this logic. Yahtzee put it best regarding SR4: "Having played it, I think the censorship board had a point. Wouldn't want people trying to mimick irresponsible behaviour like shooting fire out of their bare hands, or jumping twelve stories into the air, or *going into politics*." Dark Sector was a neat game. Nothing too special, but the main boomerang thingy weapon was really fun.  Gotta agree with that. It was also particularly brutal with the ability to slice people the fuck up with that thing. Blitz the League? Isn't that just a football game? Yeah but you could give your players performance-enchancing drugs and shit to give them a boost. kinda ironic since the australian football league just recently had a doping scandal You could juice up in it. The Australian Classification Board doesn't allow drug use for gameplay benefits. Meanwhile...Real life allows drug use for gameplay benefits! A lot of people shit talk America, but at least they don't ban half of the M rated games that are released Or any of the M rated games, really. Shit on the ESRB (and MPAA, for that matter) all you want, but they are very much preferable to the alternate, which is a government run classification board. Most publishers probably actively talk to the ESRB to make sure that the game will fit an M rating.  That's because things like the ESRB and MPAA aren't gov agencies in the USA. I still think they hold too much power, though. sr4, south park, gta v, and now hm2. honestly who is surprised? I don't recall GTA V ever being banned in Australia. Probably talking about the Kmart situation in Australia. Doesn't really have to do with a nationwide ban.  I thought it was Target?  4chan's /pol/ made a fake petition and Target obliged. Target and Kmart are owned by the same people here... Target was the store petitioned, Kmart took the same action because of the same CEO. Kmart still sells the game though,  just doesn't sit it on their shelves.  You just have to ask at the counter.  Target has removed it completely though Now that is interesting to know GTAV Was never banned, ever. Target and K-Mart just took it off their shelves.  Not really, our country is just silly. Yesterday IGN's preview mentioned it was incredibly violent; moreso than the first title. Did the first one face R18 in Australia?

Either way, holy mother of fuck am I stoked for this game. Release date (announcement and the actual day) can't come fast enough.

SPOILERS BELOW BE CAREFUL First game got MA15+. It's unlikely that the violence got it banned I think. Much more likely it is something to do with drug use. Sexual violence will get it banned quick smart too. Rewarding drug use, giving drugs as a reward or rape/violent sexual content = instant ban

So yeah, it's likely one of those.

*Drugs = real world drugs, they can be named into a fictitious drug and be ok... Winners don't use drugs.  Not sure how it could get much more violent then the first one... Simulated Sexual Assault and more contextualized murders.  [deleted] Dude, unless there's serious consumer outrage, the authoritarians aren't budging. We're not getting it. :( Use a VPN to get it DRM free from GOG.com.

Haven't ever used it, but [Tunnelbear seems like it could work and is free.](https://www.tunnelbear.com/) Hola! (Chrome extension) should work considering the GOG store is in browser. It's a lot less inconvenient than Tunnelbear and is actually pretty useful. I use it a lot for getting around internet censorship in Thailand or my college's blocked websites We can get it, we just can't buy it. Just fire an email at the devs after it releases, they'll help you out.  You reckon? They know they'll never sell you a copy, so it wouldn't surprise me if they have a work-around to let you play it.  The devs before supported a torrent of HLM when it first came out, updating it and everything. I wouldn't be surprised if they did the same with HLM2. A lot of people think it's about the rape scene but there's been no mention of that being in the retail release, and that was removed in the demo.

This could just as easily be about it's violent content. The first game was definitely no slouch in that department and this entry looks to outdo it.  The article has an update already; it is a rape scene. Australia flat-out does not allow sexual violence in games, so there we go.

&gt;UPDATE: The Classification Board has gotten back to us with a copy of the Hotline Miami 2 report, which explains that the game has been Refused Classification for an implied rape scene.

&gt;The following excerpt may be offensive to some readers:

&gt;In the sequence of game play footage titled Midnight Animal, the protagonist character bursts into what appears to be a movie set and explicitly kills 4 people, who collapse to the floor in a pool of copious blood, often accompanied by blood splatter. After stomping on the head of a fifth male character, he strikes a female character wearing red underwear. She is knocked to the floor and is viewed lying face down in a pool of copious blood. The male character is viewed with his pants halfway down, partially exposing his buttocks. He is viewed pinning the female down by the arms and lying on top of her thrusting, implicitly raping her (either rear entry or anally) while her legs are viewed kicking as she struggles beneath him. This visual depiction of implied sexual violence is emphasised by it being mid-screen, with a red backdrop pulsating and the remainder of the screen being surrounded by black.

&gt;The Australian Classification Guidelines explicitly forbid sexualised violence in video games, so it's no surprise that this scene has caused issues with the censorship board. We are still waiting to hear back from Dennaton and Devolver about whether or not the developer or publisher will be appealing the decision or submitting a modified version of the game.
 [Here's a youtube clip of the scene](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=beUrlDwf56w&amp;feature=youtu.be&amp;t=56s). Basically it happens in a fictional movie in the game, so the implied assault is basically 2 actors doing a scene for an exploitation movie. Shockception Aaaaaaaaaaand theres the context. Its all an act. Fiction within Fiction. Also it lasted for all of one second Weird isn't it? When you actually show the consequences of violence it gets it banned but you make killing seem quick and clean and suddenly it's ok. Unfortunately Australia's classification rules specifically ban sexual violence without context.  It is up to the classification board to determine what "context" means, but basically it's a way to allow, for instance, Clockwork Orange, but ban "rape simulator" video games, or films which would glorify sexual violence.

Otherwise violence has no limits on it.

edit: From what I can see, sexual violence in video games *committed by the player character* (Hotline Miami 2) or that *the player has some control over in some way* (South Park: SoT) seem to be what triggers the ban. Committed by the player character as a reward for successfully killing the crew. No control and locked screen with a pulsing background. This is enough to get it banned according to our guidelines so. [Nope, MA 15+](http://www.classification.gov.au/Pages/View.aspx?sid=QFoJMQn6yG3BB339ntVlRQ%253d%253d&amp;ncdctx=xCQ9mvRVHTW4cEtBtRRmStIf6LOAZeqf3%2b4Gtfu0yBCaDjJVylPHuzrqEsxTyAiW) I watched the movie "Irreversible" on Foxtel in Australia: This movie has someone's skull bashed in until he's dead with a fire extinguisher, a women being raped in a tunnel by a gangster then bashed her face in and numerous other things (seriously, it's one of the most disturbing movies I've watched). 

Yet a fucking 16-bit game cannot pass the classification? Don't give me that shit that movies and games aren't the same; many empirical studies have been done on games and found that there's no correlation with video games and violence/crime.

Fuck you Australia. Games are seen as toys and not perceived as art and culture like movies.

It makes much more sense from such a perspective. but no less incorrect. No doubt, here in Norway games are seen as art and culture by the government and you can even get public support just like if wanting to make a movie.

Dreamfall Chapters being one of them, it even got a short TV news spot on public television. This game getting banned makes me want commit wanton acts of violence and murder.

Checkmate Australia. [deleted] Even with the fairly disturbing content, why on earth do the politicians in this country think it's their job to police what content and media we consume? If you're 18 or over, you're a fucking adult and are deemed mature enough to decide what is right for you and you alone, no government should have the powers to do it for you. For fucks sake, did we not just have a massive march in France over the protection and validity of freedom of expression and free speech? I understand that legally, at the moment, they can't release it due to the laws regarding classification, and if they did release it they would be breaking the law, but I'm saying we need to change the goddam laws. Absolutely ridiculous. &gt; did we not just have a massive march in France over the protection and validity of freedom of expression 

That was a masquerade. What happened in France wasn't a crime against freedom of expression. It was a hate-inducing assassination commited by zealots.

Several western governments are harming freedom of expression way more than a couple of mad bastards who think a higher being will pat them in the back for assassinating in cold blood some cartoonists.

All this stuff makes me very sad.
 Then what was the ***point*** of getting the rating if you **won't** ***use*** **it?** They have been using it, just not as much as we wanted.

As far as offensive language, etc and violence go. We totally won.

Violence is a non-issue since the R+18 rating and there has actually been at least one UNbanning (L4D2) R18+ became the new MA15, we didn't get what we wanted, we got a botched version because the OFLC/AG is run by a bunch of conservative twats. The classification board don't make the legislation. Politicians do. Exactly. And they are a bunch of conservative twats. They were never going to change what was actually approved/rejected, because apparently we, as australian citizens, need a bunch of puritanical nanny-state fuckwits telling us what we can and can't handle.

All that an R18 category meant was that there'd be less MA15 games. So it's perfectly fine to have M rated movies with rape scenes but R18 video games? nope. They tend to call the line at the lead character a player has control of at any point being depicted or the player having some actual control over it...

It's stupid but it's the explanation. God, this is so fucking bullshit. We have fought hard for years and years for that R18+ rating and now that we have it the same sort of shit is still happening. Do we need to have a X rating as well? I understand if the game is basically turned up to 11 in terms of content, themes, and whatever else compared to the last game, but why ban it? There has to be something either really bad and offensive that the classification board thinks it needs to be kept from the public eye. I'm sort of guessing it's related to Sexual Violence since Saints Row 4, a game that was eventually rated MA 15+ plus here, was denied because the same thing. That and alien drugs. That and, I'm also not sure how to really word this properly or if I'm exactly right, the game is most likely going to have a digital release. I know it could be easy for a minor under 18 to somehow lie about his or her age or details and obtain it that way, but it's a Indie game that's most likely going to have a pretty limited, while big, fan base, compared to something like CoD or Fifa or GTA. Again, I could be wrong and I only just woke up to this news so my head's all fuzzy still.But for now, looks like I'll have to illegally download this game and send the devs some money by snail mail or something. It's been updated now, and it was indeed because of a heavily implied rape scene.  A rape scene that was actually fake in the game. No one was actually getting raped. Nobody ever was. It's a video game. It being a video game of a movie apparently doesn't matter.  [deleted] [deleted] Everytime a game is banned despite our new R18 rating I find myself having to remind people that our new R18 rating covers increased levels of violence only. The regulations were never changed for anything to do with drug use and sexual violence.

The OFLC is following the rules that they were given, it's not their fault people stopped fighting for a better system when they heard the R18 was approved. Australia doesn't like sexualized violence/rape. If it's in a movie, unless you're a popular director and know how to film around it, it gets an R. However, for video games, they will outright refuse a game if it has rape in it, no matter how graphic it is or is not.

Even though it says 18+ on the cover, they still think they have to police content like they did before R was introduced for games.

I don't hate ratings systems. I believe it is better to tell people a basic idea of what's in a game than it is to abstain from telling them altogether. Triggers are a thing, and ratings systems ideally will help people decide on a game based on their own personal lives, and how much they can handle. But because of the conservative nature most ratings boards have, it leans further to moral policing of art. [Here's the entry on the Classification database](http://www.classification.gov.au/Pages/View.aspx?sid=RfGswWYF5cPC5o5j1oGJGw%253d%253d&amp;ncdctx=0fkxpD%252fcETieLt%2bn%2bnJFoVMzgSggYMoukGlucl4jGg%2bMi%252fMD%2bWvrVXiELg2BuvtlaTYHV%252fYh38ND%2bZ2ZNxKi867z0%2b9Fb8Qtfq0NPRtOarM%253d).

No specific detail given for the decision.

Risen was RC, but I had no issue activating that via the Humble Bundle. They've cracked down on that recently - eg. South Park - so preumably keys will be region restricted. Games are art.  Art comments on tragedies like rape.  You can't ban something because it simply makes people uncomfortable. [deleted] What the classification board neglected to mention is that right after the 'rape scene' the director yells "cut", revealing that it was in fact all part of a movie shooting and the characters are actors. It's a fictional depiction of an act (acting out a scene from a movie) within a fictional video game that bares almost no resemblance to real life (16bit design aesthetic). If you find any sort of depiction of rape as un-watchable I will never say you are wrong for holding that opinion but to ban something you disagree with (or to support a ban of something you disagree with) is dangerous thinking in the realm of creativity.

It is highly unfortunate but rape and murder do happen in the world we live in. What good will shielding it from anyone's eyes do? especially adults? Some may try to make the argument that it is glorifying the act but that's disingenuous. The creators saw fit to put the act in the story with a purpose I'm sure. I don't want to have a world in which an artist has to second guess his creations based on certain peoples sensibilities. We need to grow past this feeling that what you find offensive must be rectified/covered up.

For the record, I am a man and I am a victim of sexual assault but more importantly I am an artist. This is in no way to prop up my opinion as any more valid but it should give perspective on how strongly I feel about this issue. First of all censorship is stupid, but why don't Australians take action, you have a democratic country, make your voice heard. And not talking about typing in caps in a reddit thread. Go out and talk to decision makers. Does this mean the game is very close to release elsewhere?  Like weeks hopefully?  I'll even take days.  Seems to be. [This](http://i.imgur.com/XENPgLf.png) was accidently released on their storefront today. So much excite!! I bought Hotline Miami for cheap. I'll be more than happy to give them money for the extra content. I think you misunderstand. The extra content is a perk for a different game. The images aren't dlc or "special perks" content, it's free stuff you get for PayDay 2 if you own Hotline Miami 2. Does anyone now if this bullshit applies to New Zealand? I'm moving there in about a month and I fear I won't be able to buy any game I want. You'll be fine in NZ, we don't have these issues Yes we do. Heaps of publishers treat Aus and NZ (and much of asia sometimes too) as one region and if it doesn't get distributed in Au it doesn't go ANYWHERE in that region. Similarly, if AU censors it then often NZ/Asia will get the censored version too.

Prime example, The Witcher 2. It got censored in Aus due to a quest for a succubus where she fucks you as a reward (or something like that). I'm in NZ, my region in GoG was set to NZ, but because Namco-Bandai are a bunch of asshats NZ was forced to get the Aus censored version regardless of it not being censored here.

I even tried changing my region to US but because Namco-Bandai are asshats they legally forced GoG to ignore region settings and use GeoIP (despite it being against their mission statement), which put me in NB's "Oceania" region, and there was only one SKU for it, the AU censored version. The REALLY stupid thing is that it was probably purely because it was cheaper to only PHYSICALLY distribute one version. I've only ever had this with GOG, Steam has its own NZ store. Nah, definitely not - we have our own classification system and VERY few games are banned.  Somewhat releated, but Magic Sword are confirmed to have contributed to the sound track and you can listen to the added tracks here.

http://www.incgamers.com/2015/01/hotline-miami-2s-soundtrack-has-a-pair-of-magic-sword-tunes But... it's just pixel art? As suspected the game has been banned due to a scene implying sexual violence. All of the other violence is probably allowable but this kind of scene is a no-go under our guidelines.

&gt;In the sequence of game play footage titled Midnight Animal, the protagonist character bursts into what appears to be a movie set and explicitly kills 4 people, who collapse to the floor in a pool of copious blood, often accompanied by blood splatter. After stomping on the head of a fifth male character, he strikes a female character wearing red underwear. She is knocked to the floor and is viewed lying face down in a pool of copious blood. The male character is viewed with his pants halfway down, partially exposing his buttocks. He is viewed pinning the female down by the arms and lying on top of her thrusting, implicitly raping her (either rear entry or anally) while her legs are viewed kicking as she struggles beneath him. This visual depiction of implied sexual violence is emphasised by it being mid-screen, with a red backdrop pulsating and the remainder of the screen being surrounded by black.

http://www.kotaku.com.au/2015/01/hotline-miami-2-refused-classification-because-of-an-implicit-rape-scene/

 What I don't understand is how movies can get away with sexual violence in some scenes (like Pulp Fiction for instance) and still get classified, but the moment a fictional rape scene in a 16-bit game takes place the game gets refused. It's just not consistent at all. [deleted] I think it's sad that so much effort is put into making the new rating system just to have more violent games without censoring or banning them, yet the nanny state instead ignores it and continues to ban games that adults should be able to buy.

Somehow movies and books don't get quite the same treatment though, funny double standard there. 


Oh fuck off! I'm sure that hopefully they'll find some way to release a version that removes the content (it's probably drugs because the board hates drugs and video games mixed together edit: turns out it was rape, I didn't read the article before I posted this. What, so killing thousands of men is fine, but a depiction of rape is terrible and ban worthy?!), but, just like I had to do with South Park TSOT, there will be an uncensored patch for us adult Australians to enjoy the game the way it was meant to be played, and not the way that the Australian "think of the children" classification board wants us to play it.

It'll probably end up like South Park TSOT, with bits of one level removed, but given an MA15+ rating instead of the R18+ rating it should have (which is absolutely ludicrous, what's the point of the R18 rating if you are just going to censor shit you don't like and give it an MA15+ rating?!), with an unofficial patch to uncensor it shortly after its release.

These people on the board need to be removed and their rules for classification reworked on video games. We live in a democracy, and censorship of all kinds obviously shouldn't be tolerated, especially if it is censorship based on old, plain wrong beliefs. &gt; These people on the board need to be removed and their rules for classification reworked on keep games.

So much this. Have you seen the members who make up the board? Sooooo out of touch.... It's almost kind of sad if it weren't so infuriating. &gt;Keep games 

Look, Using my phone, silly auto correct. Edited it. &gt; hat, so killing thousands of men is fine, but a depiction of rape is terrible and ban worthy?!

Sex is far more bigger a taboo than death, always has been in the West. and in Aus.... for some reason. at least in games anyway. i don't see how sexual violence is worse off than actual killing, mutilation, blood and gore.....  Legality of offering it for private sale direct download? Because I don't wana pirate this [deleted] Classification board = Censorship board.

I'd really like to play the game and I can't because someone else says I might be offended despite the fact I'm an adult.

Will pirate and donate game value equivalent. Can anyone tell me how this will affect me playing this legally on PC?


If I go on Steam/GoG/GmG from an Australian IP, will HM2 be unavailable for purchase?


Alternatively, if I redeem a US HM2 game code on Steam from my Australian PC, will there be any issues? Yes to the former, possibly to the latter depending on whether or not they decide to region-restrict activations. Some games do (eg. South Park) some don't.

It is not illegal to play the game in Australia once you have it (unless you are exhibiting it to minors) but getting it is the tricky part. So use a free vpn to buy it DRM free from GOG, then install and you are fine

Edit: a free vpn to use 

https://www.tunnelbear.com/ Would Steam notice that its a US code for a AU computer? Or would they not give a shit.

I'm perfectly happy to change my region to buy online if need-be, but not if I get banned from Steam or something else. You wouldn't use a code in steam, it probably wouldn't work in AU anyways.  With GOG you don't get a code, you just download the exe basically. Then you can set it up in steam as a non steam game. I can deal with that, forgot that not everything revolves around steam, haha. ~~There are non region locked Steam keys. Third party sites like Nuveem sell them. But I'm not sure in this case, I would assume that it would work fine.~~

~~If anyone can confirm this, that would be great.~~

Edit: Forgot the region locking of all keys. It will not work. This is only true for gifts AFAICT. Keys sold on nuuvem et al should be fine. Unfortunately in that situation you don't get Steam achievements :/ Im hoping that using a vpn on gog will be enough. If not, gonna have to pirate it. Not sure about GoG and GmG but as someone who lives in the middle east Spec Ops is not available for me on Steam, it doesn't show in the search or on the store's frontpage. 

 Whoa wait... Hotline Miami 2!? Yuuuup, bigger, better and banned! You forgot *bloodier*. That's a damn sight more than most companies would do. Sure, they may have pretty much lied in the first place but I've rarely seen a company do this kind of thing. Especially so quickly. On the other end of spectrum you have Gearbox telling people to fuck off if they felt cheated when DNF and A:CM were released, using sales data as evidence that people enjoyed it and those complaining are a vocal minority... What are DNF and ACM? Duke Nukem Forever and Aliens: Colonial Marines Alternatively: Did Not Finish and A Crummy Mess.  404 Developers Not Found I really feel like DNF could have been great if some more dev time was spent on it. It had a lot of varied gameplay and great throwbacks to old style boss fights, but everything was too clunky and thrown together. I know it was in development for ages, but I feel like GBX really put the final nail in the coffin.  DNF was decent, but the varied gameplay was particularly awful. They tried too hard to be like HL2 and gave you airboat ride sort of scenarios. It was overdone in HL2, and it was overdone in DNF.

The "coolest parts" of DNF ending up being not fun at all. You get in the monster truck, drive down the most linear canyon I've ever seen in my life, your only option to run over helpless enemies... and then you run out of gas.

I'm sure they were burnt out and probably lost a lot of interest in the game. The whole game sort of felt like a drag instead of actual fun.
I hope the next Duke is something amazing. I understand what you are saying but was still funny to see the statement that "DNF could use more dev time". Duke Nukem Forever and Aliens: Colonial Marines. Probably. This is early access to a game that on launch will be completely free to play, that had a major miscommunication issue. 

DNF and A:CM, regardless of what you or I think about them, were full games that could be beaten by the time the first complaints come in, and well "tough shit" as far as the industry is concerned.  Some developers step up to the plate like the Origin great game guarantee, but we can't treat games as some magical exception, because then people do sound like entitled and whiny pieces of shit. You can't return movies after opening them, you can't get a refund for a movie ticket, etc. Can't treat one medium of entertainment differently because of your personal ideas as to what you think you deserve.

Duke Nukem Forever was entertaining and was killed by it's own hype, and Aliens Colonial Marines was just a bad game. Next time you see a movie you don't like at the theater, ask for your money back every time that happens and see how far you get. If you walk out of a movie halfway and say the movie sucks and you want your money back, nearly any cinema will give you your money back. [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] To be fair, they were more concerned with the money you spent on popcorn, soda, and the 32 oz Icee you bought  And a pass means you're definitely coming back to buy all the junk food all over again! Joke's on them, I always sneak food in. I always make my girlfriend carry her "big ugly purse" with her to the theater for this reason. I've probably saved millions.  This is 100% true. Most cinemas make most of their money off of concessions. The majority of ticket sales go right back to hollywood. Will the studio refund you if you buy the DVD? I would like to call George Lucas to the stand.  Relevant - http://youtube.com/watch?v=RsWTiafB21Q Yet, Kevin Smith is actually a huge fan of the prequels, and insists anyone who genuinely hates them is just doing it to be "cool".  

He's also convinced the prequels are vastly better films than the LotR films.   No, but they can't tell how much of the movie you watched.

In games where progress is logged it might be more akin to cinemas. Progress can easily be altered or removed. I've altered the progress... Pray I do not decide to alter it any further. My friend who works at a cinema says they try to fix complaints no matter how dumb they are. So you could complain that your salted popcorn is too salty and get free stuff.  It's usually the first half hour at most theaters, but some don't care as long as the movie hasn't finished. Time spent with a game is a little more difficult to quantify than a linear film. If you don't like a game a day after it you get it, it sucks. If you don't like a movie half way through, it sucks. You actually get your money back at the movie theater though. A movie only costs you 10 dollars after tax, a new game sets you back 62-64 after tax. I agree that there's a need for some kind of refund policy, but the movie theater comparison just doesn't hold up. There's too much potential for abuse there. 

A movie theater employee knows exactly how much of the movie you watched. A physical retailer can't verify how much of a game you played and many games can be completed in a day. Even with digital distribution, where do you draw the line? There's games that take 2 hours to complete, and games which take 400, and at least a day or 2 to even begin the experience. You can't draw a rigid line like you can with movies.  but if you buy the DVD you cant return that. Its really fucking entitled to want your money back because you spent your money on something you dont like. Maybe people should be more cautious.
 The chain around here (Cineplex) is half an hour into the film. [deleted] [deleted] You can get a refund on a movie ticket or movie you purchased anywhere in the UK you can definitely get your money back if you leave part way through a movie, have done it before and I have bought and returned DVDs from a store before too. Games are this weird exception because the loophole is too huge for people to abuse but it remains one those areas of entertainment that is rife for abuse from both sides of the fence, more so than any other entertainment form imo. You're always allowed to return anything as a consumer in Europe. Only exception are service providers, because "services" falls outside the consumer protection jurisdiction buying and selling:

And Steam gets away with being a "service provider" for some weird reason. &gt; This is early access to a game that on launch will be completely free to play, that had a major miscommunication issue.

"The developers (a studio *KNOWN* for shady practices, deliberately misleading statements and a blatant disregard for the good will they have been given in the past) repeatedly and constantly lied on multiple occasions" is not a 'miscommunication issue'. Even a major one. It is nothing less than a malicious and deliberate attempt to mislead the community and press to get free publicity. People really love some hyperbole!

What is the most likely series of events

Devs don't want to add pay for weapons to the game and state they won't.

Either pressured from outside forces higher up the corporate chain or simply deciding it is in the best interests of the company to add these air drops and include weapons.

I don't think there was any intended deception... really just naivete on the devs part for releasing their initial statements oh and I mean normal corporate greed for adding pay2win so like these guys aren't heroes in fact they are sorta shit for letting greed keep poisoning gaming... but they aren't Shakespearean villains [deleted] &gt;Duke Nukem Forever was entertaining and was killed by it's own hype, and Aliens Colonial Marines was just a bad game. Next time you see a movie you don't like at the theater, ask for your money back every time that happens and see how far you get.

No questions asked refund if you leave the theatre in the first half hour where I live. 

 &gt; Can't treat one medium of entertainment differently because of your personal ideas as to what you think you deserve.

Um, why not? What ridiculous rules do you live by, where an absolute value of human existence is that blanket standards must apply across all mediums of media entertainment, despite the fact that each medium is vastly different in how they function? well, with DNF I can understand telling people to fuck off. People always run the risk of buying a game they don't like, whereas A:CM was a broken fucking product. Frankly, I've heard better reception regarding DNF than A:CM. There was no way in fuck that DNF would have ever lived up to the hype. I think given its fucked up history, Gearbox was the only studio that was able to deliver a product at all.  Honestly, i dont get the hate for DNF, what the fuck were people expecting? I paid for it (on sale mind you) and i thoroughly enjoyed it for what it was. People were expecting something that wasn't broken. You say you bought it on sale- good on you. After a shitload of patches that fixed glitches, changed gameplay mechanics and a bunch of other improvements, I have no doubt it can be an enjoyable game. This did not apply to release $60 version of the game. They feel like they can make more money selling P2W features and giving refunds than they would if they removed the P2W feature. This is a pure money making decision, the refunds will quiet the angry mob so they can sell more P2W. They have a monetization team that makes these decisions.

Making $$$ &gt; making a good game. &gt; They feel like they can make more money selling P2W features and giving refunds than they would if they removed the P2W feature. 

That's pretty much the bottom line. That's probably what makes this a viable option for them in the first place. They've probably made the decision based on income for PS2 that their current microtransaction system wasn't profitable enough. Well to be fair PS2 is still super grindy and a bit P2W. I remember when I played something like 3 thousand hours still wouldn't give you even 60% of the stuff in the game.  yep, and now I have no interest in trying it, I thought it might be fun as a F2P but not like this. [deleted] [deleted] &gt; That's a damn sight more than most companies would do.

Because there's a clear timeline, all archived, which would prove a clear cut case of false advertisement, should anyone try to start up a law suit of some kind. Yeah I'd imagine they've taken note to a lot of the other games in this vein and just want to avoid that crap all together.

Having players who dislike the game happy is better than having them posting all over the internet about how shit the game is and that SOE won't refund them *insert crap about lies and promises (that were never actually promises) Whats sad is that the devs will suffer, not the *managers* (wink) responsible Why is that necessarily the case?  Devs have been paid for their work.  People who are counting on profits would suffer right? Yeah, if anything the manager(s) responsible would be taking the most heat for getting the game thousands of negative reviews on steam while it's still in early access...having mostly negative or even mixed reviews on your steam page is a major red flag for most people Right, because Smedley got heat over all the shit he pulled in the past

Oh, wait... i keep hearing that they lied

[but this article from august seems to show that airdrops have been planned this way for a long time](http://www.vg247.com/2014/08/16/h1z1-pc-ps4-gamescom-soe-live/) They had planned airdrops, but it was later stated that weapons would not be in them. That they would be used for unique cosmetics.

Here's a dev saying that all weapons and ammo would be found only in game 3 days ago 
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9K6cv--warY#t=2439 They also are pushing out a patch today that are changing airdrops to drop slower, in a wider radius and make guns "wayyyy less common" That doesn't matter you see, people will just run with the whole P2W thing without actually understanding the idea behind drops. They don't go directly into your inventory, anyone can snag the items - the person who bought it isn't guaranteed anything and the game is still in alpha so things will change. People seem to expect the game to be polished and finished and all decisions have been made final. The entitlement gamers feel when it comes to free-to-play games is hilarious and embarrassing. 

What do you mean they have to make money in order to keep the game running?! Oh bullshit, this game I'm not going to pay for is bullshit! Except it was blatant false advertising. "All in game purchases will be purely cosmetic, no beneficial items of any kind can be purchased" does not mean "beneficial items can be purchased". why are you completely ignoring that the development team blatantly lied about what the paid content would be?
 Did they blatantly lie, or did the design philosophy change midway through development? That's SOE for you. Many mistakes but always willing and able to make it sweeter. After playing Planetside for 2 years, I know this well. I think a lot of people who played (or wanted to play) SWG, EQ2, Vanguard etc. would disagree strongly.

I'm actually quite shocked by this news, since it's absolutely not a SOE-thing to do. :/ Seriously, I know I'm gonna sound like a grumpy old guy (I promise, I'm younger than 30), but it's *almost* funny that somebody thought they new SOE as a company willing to "make it sweeter". I mean, a guy killed himself over what they did to SWG. SOE has been the Big Bad for awhile now. &gt;a guy killed himself over what they did to SWG.

Yep, you're gonna have to expand on that. This might be it, but his brother says SWG had nothing to do with it: http://www.escapistmagazine.com/news/view/86552-Jeff-Freeman-Former-SWG-Lead-Gameplay-Designer-Dies
 Except they didn't lie. 
Copy pasta one of my other post. 


&gt; ...There are crates you can buy, and then there are Airdrops. Crates can not give weapons or ammo. Airdrops can, and this was announced [MONTHS AGO](http://www.vg247.com/2014/08/16/h1z1-pc-ps4-gamescom-soe-live/)! 
&gt; 
&gt; And the airdrops are broke, they are suppose to drop randomly, within a certain radius of the player who calls it in to give them a chance to get it, but also to give others a chance to contest them. The crates also draw zombies towards it. This is very similar to the way Air drops in the game Rust used to work before they restarted the game. The outrage started when a bunch of people were watching on of the streamers on twitch encounter a bug that cause the crate to fall at his feet and inside was a shit ton of military grade gear. The gear is admittedly over powered, but they have already said that will be patched TODAY. To lessen the likelihood of high powered weapons and ammo being in airdrops. 
&gt; 
&gt; Reddit, you know better than to just believe everything you see posted ...

[Original post](https://www.reddit.com/r/gaming/comments/2sn2du/please_do_not_get_h1z1_due_to_manipulative_lies/cnr9qsb) They also said the only way to get weapons and supplies is to find them in the world or craft them, and that purchasing guns would make the game suck. They certainly didn't lie about the later. To be fair, once you call in an airdrop, you do need to find it in the world. [deleted] Its because they know that an extremely small percent of the people who bought the game are actually going to return it. They're used to getting slammed so they know the simplest and quickest way to defuse community disapproval.  