Were you at quicken loans today? dude lets fight irl I heard spider-man has been confirmed for civil war though.. Go fuck yourself!  Don't qualify it. It's just a regular crush.  Terry is probably one of the best people on this Earth on pretty much all aspects. He's pretty humble, hilarious, amazingly talented artist, fucking ripped, a nice dude, and can sing 1,000 miles beautifully. 

Terry Crews for president of the world.  What size room do you prefer to work? Not sure if it's mentioned elsewhere in this AMA, but I read that he went to college on an art scholarship. That's just crazy to me that someone can be that talented in so many different fields. Hey Terry if I train hard enough can we spar someday? Any style of fighting. It'll be a honor going against an expendable! By the way you should do a Major Payne reboot where you play the Major's son "Lieutenant Tiger: The little Engineer that Could!" Thank you for responding! I'm glad to hear that you do have some sort of coping mechanisms:) "I jam my ass" - Terry Crews, 2015 Craft beers from Tijuana? I'm skeptical of how good they are and do they give you Montezuma's revenge? He wouldn't quite be a "wild" sketch if he came when he was paged, would he? So who is greg jennings for?.. Sometimes I get the feeling I'm the only person who remembers almost all of the conversations I have and remember them for a month or so, everytime I get back to someone like a week later and say "remember that thing we talked about?" and they always just stare at me like a crazy person for at least 5 minutes until they eventually go "OH YEAAAAHHH now I remember!"  Please please please please please terry crews!!!!! Damn, this was one of the coolest questions. No gender is smarter or has any kind of advantage over the other in any way... 

EDIT: you people do realise you are downvoting a comment that does nothing but plainly state that both genders are actually equal? Some "equality" movement Man there's a phobia for everything. Who doesn't have a phobia of vomit? It fucking sucks!

Guess what? I have a phobia of being murdered, homicideaphobia. I also have mild phobias of getting put on fire, drowned or having my skin torn off. So this funny, ripped motherfucker that sells Old Spice and makes movies and TV shows for a living is also inspirational as all hell? The world is not fair. Hey! 

I saw you in Seattle with Lemuria a few months ago. Had never heard of any of you before that night as I love to hit up random shows. Thought both of your bands were great and ended up buying a T-shirt from you (awesome you man your own merch). But I was super impressed by you and Lemuria playing together. Can't remember what you guys called it, but it was greater than the sum of the parts.

Any chance of you guys hooking up and touring together as a band?

You bring the back-up vocs and guitar that Lemuria needs. And they have the whole band you need! : ) What type of class did you play and who did you romance? :P What are some of your favorite local breweries in Tijuana? Seeing as you mentioned it above - how is the craft beer scene there? But what of the aspect that only the top level has the screws, while the rest are normal? Worst heckler you've ever dealt with and who do you think is the best at destroying them ? And the fact that he did it in just a few years' time is impressive... Proof that God is a woman.  You said in another comment that surgery like this is a last resort and has other consequences. What would happen and what is the recovery process like?  Terry, is working with Stallone as cool as I imagine it would be? Or even Arnold "FUCK" Yes. 


Part of becoming a good stand-up comedian is experimenting with multiple styles, and I try to do that as much as I can. The controversial joke I remember doing that people didn't seem to like was early on in my career about 9/11. It goes something like this [it helps if you read it in a Randy Marsh (South Park) voice]:


"I'm sure there was some guy in the World Trade Centers on 9/11 who got promoted, walked into his office for the first day and was like, 'Yes! 27 years here, and I final get a window view from my very own offAWWWW DAMN IT!'" I work on Disney Infinity and this is awesome. Happy to give you the hook up anytime!  Who is favorite comedian of all time? [No, it's really not.](http://www.urbandictionary.com/define.php?term=Man+Crush)     What is your oppinion on charity scams and how can we protect ourselves from them? What are some good open mics for beginners in Atlanta? Do you think the improve workshops are with it? Are there any "agents" that deal with comedians in Atlanta? Honestly? I thought you were super overrated. And then I saw you talk about the problems with porn on tv. And I was like whoa! This dude actually said some real shit. Of course it was on a fake bullshit show, maybe not the best platform.... but still. 


Nobody else in hollywood EVER would have the balls to say that shit. 
Ps you are actually funny, I gave it a chance White girls, duh!
 Come back! In BSD terms, a "jail" is a sandbox that software can execute in isolation from the main system; to an app, it looks like it has a full system to work with, but the OS is actually limiting what it can and can't touch. Apps on phones work this way too, they cannot interact with other apps, files, or other system components directly. 

"jailbreaking" is *escaping* the jail to interact with the underlying OS. It lets apps touch other apps running on the system, as well as access the filesystem outside of the jail.

Jailbreaking pre-dates Apple's devices, as it's a specific form of privilege escalation exploit on Unix-like systems with jail/chroot mechanisms. If a DI would've caught you, you'd have IT'd the remainder of boot camp once you got out of rehab platoon  Is this a good thing for strength or bulking or is it just for getting your bench really high  I love you.  It is impossible to read these posts and not hear them in your voice.  He loves equality?  That is why he said women are smarter than men - for real!  Replace women with whites and men with blacks. Would your comment still be the same?

I love women and hate the inequality between the sexes. I grew up as the only boy with all sisters and all girl cousins only. I hate inequality. But I would never say women are smarter than men. Some women are smarter than some men and some men are smarter than some women. You know, because regardless of our genitals we are just people.  **PLEASE READ THIS MESSAGE IN ITS ENTIRETY BEFORE TAKING ACTION. ALL AMAs REQUIRE PROOF**

[Please review our guidelines on what is acceptable as proof.](http://www.reddit.com/r/IAmA/wiki/index#wiki_3._what_constitutes_.22proof.22.3F)

If you intend to submit public proof, please edit a link to your proof into your current post and [message the moderators by clicking here](http://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2FIAmA&amp;subject=Post%20Review%20Request&amp;message=I%20have%20added%20proof%20to%20my%20post,%20please%20review%3a%0d%0a%0d%0ahttp://www.reddit.com/r/IAmA/comments/2u5yyc/iama_xpost_from_rama_i_went_from_happily_in_love/). This must be proof a reasonable person believes verifies your claims. The mods **strongly** encourage you to provide public proof.

If you absolutely cannot provide public proof, you can work with the moderation team to confidentially verify proof of your topic or subject. *Remember: Mod verification requires unequivocal proof*. [To submit confidential proof, please click here](https://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2FIAmA&amp;subject=Need+Confidential+Verification&amp;message=My+AMA+needs+to+remain+confidential.%0d%0a%0d%0aMy+proof%3a%0d%0a%0d%0a%3Cinsert+proof+for+verification+here%3E)

       
If you believe you have received this message in error or have another question - [please message the mods by clicking here.](http://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2FIAmA)


*[I am a bot](/r/AutoModerator/comments/q11pu/what_is_automoderator/), and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2FIAmA) if you have any questions or concerns.* Do you hate Chris?  Hey Mr. Crews,

I was staffed at LEGOLAND CA when you visited us last year. Since then, I received a promotion. 

I would like to know if you enjoyed your stay, and what we can do better?

P.s.: Your Nip Syncing on Jimmy Fallon...I got many laughs from this Moctezuma's revenge is most likely caused by street food (and it's so worth it).

Tijuana is very close to San Diego, which boasts some of the best craft beers in the world. Many of the ingredients from there are used down here, as well as the knowledge. 

Brandon Hernndez of the San Diego Reader (and Stone Brewing Co.) was down here in September. This is what he had to say ([Part I](http://www.sandiegoreader.com/news/2014/sep/23/beer-baja-beer-touring-tijuana-part-1/) + [Part 2](http://www.sandiegoreader.com/news/2014/sep/25/beer-baja-beer-touring-tijuana-part-2/)) What about for increasing fart?  "I'm a feminist".. "women are smarter than men",  checks out. Sorry. Euro training. You still should be! He probably has decades of training on you.  old spice sucks. why do i want to smell like everyone else, just like axe Younger me wanted to collect every item (body wash, deodorant, antiperspirant, body spray, etc.) of every scent available.Today's me is slightly wiser. And at least I have been going for 2 years on my stockpile and still have this much sitting around. It'll last me another two! 54% of eligible voters did not vote in the last election.  These are the voters I am trying to appeal to.  I do not think most non-voters are lazy or apathetic.  I think they have no candidate that they believe in.   Any good Norm stories?  I don't think it's sad at all. If you've been awake or bothered to educate yourself on feminism over the last 40 or so years, you'd see that feminism *is not radicalizing.* As in, at all. There were way more radical variants in the 1960s and 70s than there are now. Sure, there are still some more extreme people, but there always will be. It's a gigantic movement. 

The problem is people on reddit and elsewhere, mostly 12-24 year old men, who are *convinced* that it's an unacceptable attack on manhood (whatever the fuck that is) to talk about real problems facing women that are utter bullshit. Pay inequality, rape, harassment, double standards, etc. UNLESS the inequitable problems some men face are talked about the *exact same amount.* That's just plain idiocy. And for the record, because I know some of you can't have a conversation without knowing what is between someone's legs, I'm a man. Like Terry Crews and other rational people who aren't offended by women speaking are men. 

There is a long and storied history of oppression of women, more so than any other subset of human beings on Earth. It's incredibly reasonable to talk about it and note the problems that still exist. Yes, men face problems too. Yes, feminism actually covers those problems as well. No, there is not the same history of discrimination and not the same level of discrimination now. It's not even close. So yes, sometimes people will talk about women without talking about fathers' rights or false rape accusations for a few minutes. There is nothing wrong with that. 

TL;DR: Every time I here some 20 year old on reddit complain about "radicalization" I want to throw a fucking history book at them. Grow up. You can talk about serious issues without talking about men for a few minutes. It's OK. Men will survive.  Thanks for the reply. Hi Terry, huge fan and I love all the explosions and destroying bathrooms you do in the name of deodorant.

Question! Do you believe if you were actually given full control of your own body, you could have successfully beaten Gerard Butler in Gamer?

And to follow up with a serious question, do actually have full control of your own body in real life? All those amazing dance moves and calculated muscle-flexing just seems too perfect to be handled by just one person. Like seriously, your muscles turn like cogs in a machine. Terry, please know that you are one of the very few people in the world that I would actually be excited to meet.

Barack Obama

Terry Crews

Bill Clinton

Drew Brees

Mila Kunis (for a variety of reasons)

Mike Tyson

Michael Jordan

Michael Jackson (RIP) I think the non-voters are sending a message that they are not satisfied with the choices.  I hope to be a "none of the above" choice that can motivate people to really send a message by voting. What was your favorite role you have played? Damn, terry, I really gotta finish that script now. How much do you bench? Man, never go full retard Isnt kevin james skinny now? Really? I think I would enjoy the show more if Chealsea wasn't on it.

Not sure why, but she just annoys me. I totally agree, the hardest part is getting in there, once I get started I get so much energy and then bam it's like two hours later This is one of the best AMA I have ever read.  It actually does star [Rob Schneider](http://www.digitaltrends.com/home-theater/adam-sandler-ridiculous-six-movie-netflix-four-deal-first/). And Steve Buscemi, Nick Nolte, Dan Aykroyd, Will Forte &amp; Vanilla Ice.

&gt;Western theme with Sandler in the lead role as a man who grew up on an Indian tribe after being orphaned as a child. Many of the actors will play his half brothers EURO TRAINING!!! I just showed my mom that video of your crazy Euro Training. You ever come to Houston? If so, let us know so you can meet the fans! Terry dropping truth.  I was upset when your voice disappeared from the Waze app! It was so fun driving with you giving directions.  When can you return to Waze?!?! fuck I love terry crews. what's up? I joke I joke lol. It's silly to let yourself down just because there's someone else who does it better. Like Qui-gon Jinn said, "There's always a bigger fish." Do you actually hate chris? In an Adam Sandler movie I can just see Rob Schneider as the hooker with the heart of gold. Good God man, do you never tire of being brilliant and motivational and inspirational? Again, you are someone to admire and look up to. Just reading your comments in this AMA makes me want to be a better person, and also accept that I am a good person. You just have one hell of a way about you sir. Thank you.  Hey, thanks for that. I'm pretty patient as it is. He's someone who loses his temper pretty easily to begin with so the hardest part for the family has been trying to stay calm and not be baited into an argument because usually he's frustrated about something else (like the pain he gets in his arm because it shakes all day). He's your typical 55 year old man, stubborn to a T and hates to show any sign of weakness but lately he's been opening up about his disease and talking about it way more frequently. It's nice to see him being more accepting of it but seeing my dad, a man who was so ridiculously active not be able to do the things he loves as often has been pretty difficult.  Talking more like family. How many EXPLOSIONNNNNNNNS!!!! Have you been involved in? Heavy weights and low reps for maximizing strength as a general rule. There's a guy about to launch a kickstarter I am commenting and up-voting just so this commercial gets made.. I will also buy some old spice product because of this commercial being made. What exactly do you hate? The people? The staff? Loud noises? 

A lot of times people hate it because they think they're being judged. Honestly, there's two reasons I even pay attention to people at the gym. 1) they're doing something stupid as all hell, like trying to squat while standing on a medicine ball or 2) I'm just mirin'. If you're worried about being judged, don't. Nobody cares if you're weak or fat or you don't know what you're doing. Just by being there you're one step ahead of everyone and we're all rooting for you. 

If it's another reason about a specific gym, find another gym. They're everywhere!  Hey Terry, I'm late. I've always known you as a jack-of-all-trades kind of guy. Being able to handle many things at once, do you have any advice for somebody trying out several hobbies while working? Craft beer scene here is growing. It feels like it is just starting it's high school phase, as last year I felt it was still in middle school. There are many craft beer bars now, other bars are starting to offer it in a bottle, as well as restaurants. But most bars main income is still cheap beer.

Mamut has been a favorite for a while, proximity and price are an influence, but lately I feel like the high demand has caused the quality to drop. Near Mamut there is Azteca Brewing, with great quality and price, but it is smaller than a nanobrew. Paralelo 29 is brand new and only been there once, but that was enough to know that it is excellent. Others I have tasted in beer festivals or in a bottle (no particular order): Agua Mala, Silenus, Border Psycho, Mueca Prieta, Insurgente, Fauna, Ley Seca (more I can't think off). 


 you forgot the  **record scratch* * I 100% agree and the smell lasts for hours without being overpowering. Ive worn it through full 14 hour shifts on a job site just drenched in sweat and im still good coming home. fyck you, you'll see it anyway! I'm leaving my home which is a farm town to go move to Philadelphia to begin taking on Acting. What's your advice onto how to become a successful actor? I'm 19 Have you ever seen super spice bros? https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-gVgTVUOTzI Will you remember this shit at Christmas? I understand what a man crush is.  I actually never knew why Danny got fired. Can you elaborate? You're goddamn right I think they were nieve in thinking DRM would work, but I don't think they knew it would be nearly as ineffective as has been proven over time.

Seriously, when the DMCA was drafted, I didn't even have DSL yet, just 56k dialup. Knowing how to compile and run code was FAR more out of reach than it is today to the average person, and DRM circumvention was not *nearly* as easy as it is today.

In the short term, I can kind of see how that would appeal to them, not that it excuses it at all. We really need to reevaluate these outdated and broken laws to really address the issue, the growth of technology blew up faster than anybody really expected.

As a result, it's totally outpaced law to such a degree that in the time a law can be passed everything could be different! I think you're thinking of Tone Sandhi. But that's totally different then the free-for-all that comes with writing a song. "Underdog put that on a t-shirt!" Shaq voice This may be the case some of the time but there have been at least three cases where a redditors idea was used for a movie/television show. And there is at least one other if you add in where the redditor was credited for their idea.  I hope I'm no too late here. A question from a fellow Flint expat. What do you think of the current state of affairs there? The worst heckler (and possibly the most fun at the same time) was at a show in Canton, GA. I won't name the place, but it was at a bar/nightclub. This heckler was just talking and "adding" to the show the whole time, and it was at a venue where they didn't have security to kick him out. A few comedians went up, and then it was my turn. My set was going decent, but about 6 minutes into my set, he yells out "He'll pee in your butt!" I have no idea why that came out of his mouth, but I replied with, "Very subtle gays you have in Canton." The crowd erupted, and laughed at that guy, and he kept quiet the rest of the time.


I have a very non-confrontational personality onstage, so I've never had any extreme cases of a heckler really out of control. Also, I became really good at taking down hecklers quickly and effectively without actually attacking them. My chops were built from the many music open mics I started on in my hometown of Newnan, GA.



Some of the best at destroying them I'd say are: 

Joe Matarese and Steve Hofstetter. 



All comedians need that tool in their repertoire because it is bond to happen. Any given night a comedian can destroy a heckler. There isn't really a comedian (that I know of) who only destroys hecklers. Yeah, there aren't nearly enough options and that $4 every other month really adds up!

I'm joking. More power to the DIYers out there. I'm proud of my 70 pounds ten years ago. What's your daily interaction with reddit like? AMA cause it's cool? Once in awhile? Couple times a day? I just took another bite of my sandwich better reload my front page?  That theory is not true. I've been in bands, done show promotions for moderate size metal events (1000ish people) off and on for over a decade. Most of the time the reason headliners sound better than the openers is because they are.  YSK about the free software foundation ( fsf.org ) who is fighting to preserve you liberties beyond just your hardware. Sometimes free software is incorrectly refereed to as "open souce" software, which is not condoning your freedom but instead programmer convenience. http://www.fsf.org/about/what-is-free-software  Unfortunately, it seems there are scams in nearly every industry these days.  In my personal opinion, it comes down to doing your due diligence and research.

We encourage people in general to support local causes where they are able to actually see the difference being made.  Most small charities are extremely grateful for support (monetarily or otherwise) and would be happy to let you get your feet wet in their cause.  

As for a catch-all strategy, I'm not aware of one that exists, but as with many things, knowledge is power. [Best I could do](http://www.independent.co.uk/sport/general/muhammad-ali-vs-bruce-lee-who-would-win-and-other-sporting-questions-767122.html)

As for your question re: football and pads, just watch some rugby, or compare these video's of big hits from [Rugby](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6Owvp3YwdOM) and the [NFL](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lxU00DFb6Vc). Those are just two quick finds, I'm sure there are more out there. To me at least, it looks like the tacklers in the NFL have less regard for their own safety, you see many more full speed hits, where in Rugby people tend to stop and square up more often. Another big difference is the head. NFL players don't move their heads out of the way as much, possibly because they can't, but probably because they feel safer in their helmet.   If Terry says women are smarter, then women are smarter. The best part about small towns is still going to the movies for $5.00 YOU IS ACTIN' LIKE A REAL McASSHOLE Bro...you lift.  There are a few bad cops, and many of the good cops are not doing enough about it.  But there is a much larger problem.  I believe are government no longer represents our country.  They represent the monied and powerful special interests.  This is a very serious accusation, and I do not take it lightly.  Our police have become an army of occupation.  They represent our government, which no longer represents our communities.  They see themselves not as peace officers, but as soldiers in a war.  They see the innocents killed as unfortuanate collateral casualties.  
It is time to demilitarize the police, end the drug wars, and rebuild the social support structures for inner city youth.  
I don't blame the police, or their trainers, or their supervisors, or their managers, or their Chiefs, or the elected officials who are the ones responsible for the situation.  We need to take responsibilty as citizens to vote for leaders who represent us and our communities, not the special interests.  Despite the billions of dollars, we need to prove that votes are not for sale. What has been your favorite film or TV show project to work on, and why? That's how much i squat.  You're a god damn, beautiful, monster. I romanced Cassandra because m-muh tsundere See? That's a good post. 

But, If you follow up the conversation from the start, you'd see that I was specifically referencing mastering both written and spoken language on an adult educated level, rather then just natural ability to speak.

I also ackownledged the fact there's no difference in complexity when learning how to speak your first language. 

And I'm not at all trying to claim there are some objective markers for complexity. I don't know shit about linguistics and I wouldn't be even able to asses that. What I meant, is that there are objective differences, which can be pinpointed and identified, that can make learning harder (again, both written and spoken language) based on what you're familiar with. 

I don't know if what I said was unclear or you've just arrived with the rest of downvote brigade and didn't read the whole convo, but looks like we're not disagreeing about much after all.

Cheers. I just listened to the Nerdist podcast with Ethan Hawke and it was great.  Now we need to Terry on! I was at this concert too! So much fun.  What do you mean that apple doesn't allow battery and hardware reporting apps? Could you please clarify this? I couldn't find anything after 5 minutes of Googling &gt;Could it be that the protective equipment makes players feel invincible so they attempt these massively more dangerous tackles that you wouldn't even contemplate in rugby

YES! Kids will lower their heads and use their helmets as weapons. Even though it's illegal, it happens all the time is very rarely called because it's hard to see if you're watching it in real time.  You will forever be cheeseburger Eddie to me. I love you in that movie! Holy shit all of your top comments are from /r/IAMA.  What's your strategy? It has a lot of different smells to choose from. 9 times out of 10, you will not run into someone else with the same kind on. Your username says enough about your side. :) I prefer to work the bigger the better for paid gigs where I am performing my act.


When I'm not getting paid though, I like the small coffee shops, and intimate rooms. That's where I have the most fun because I can connect with each individual, and have a moment of human laughter. Making a few people double over in laughter is more rewarding and more difficult than getting 2000 people to laugh. It's a numbers game. You won't always be able to make everyone laugh, which is why I like bigger shows because although the percentage of people laughing will probably be the same per joke, the affirmation of the volume of laughter and applause is greater. Really late to the party, but what are your thoughts concerning chicken parmesan? Favorite recipie? Cause there sure isn't just one good way to make that stuff! In High School, I think I got up to 235, but then I quit Football which in turn made me quit weight training. I could probably get 190-200 up now.

edit: Love the name. I'm impressed. So you are.. friends friends, and not just work friends? &gt; I used to be able to sit in the mall and sketch people, but now i"m too famous.

I feel you man. When did you know you were going to become famous? Did you ever have that feeling like you were going to do something amazing? There is an auction happening in British Columbia for about 100 abused horses that were mistreated on a farm in Armstrong. They will go for cheap or go for glue. Would be good publicity to go and snag a couple! This answer is awesome and so are you  Hi Bill, my question:What is your opinion on this issue?
This ISAAA report shows that virtually all (99.7%) of cultivated GMOs are pesticide plants. The calculations are as follows. ISAAA says the global total GMO area in 2014 was 181.5 million hectares, and adds: In 2014, insect resistance and herbicide tolerance traits, were deployed singly or stacked in the four principal biotech crops of maize, soybean, cotton and canola, and were planted globally on 181 million hectares in 28 countries." So thats 181 million out of 181.5 million hectares (99.7%) devoted to pesticide plants engineered to contain a pesticide or to tolerate and absorb herbicides, or both. As for GM golden rice, which features in the ISAAA report, it failed its field trials, so it wont be available for some years.  
Nothing new: ISAAAs GM crop statistics for 2014 Canadian Biotechnology Action Network, 
http://www.cban.ca//Nothing-New-ISAAA-s-GM-Crop-Statistics Or it means there is a popular idea that correction needs to take place and this movie is being used as an example of that correction and people are pointing to it saying true correction would be equal representation, not all women for the sake of women.

I don't think there is anything wrong with an all female GB. Honestly I can't wait for the movie. But I think that's a very shallow argument and most of you are dismissive of him purely because it's easy.

 Such a nice guy. He's exactly how he acts on stage and in movies. Just always a fun dude to hang out with, and he has a welcoming personality. Nothing too crazy. I think those days are behind him, but it doesn't mean he is any less funny. FUCK YOU GUMBY! I feel like you would be a really good John Stewart Green Lantern You and The Rock are an inspiration to me in the gym. You da man Terry!

Is filming The Expendables fun? Do you actually get to shoot any of the guns? It sounds like your sex tours are mainly guys looking to hook up with girls. Are there choices for couples, single females, and gays as well? Who is more manly? Mr Crews? Or Mr Torgue?  How can I be on who wants to be a millionaire? haha :) Yes. I can't disclose due to confidentiality. Hey Terry, love your stuff!

How influential was starting your career as an artist (to your acting career?) What type of gear are you cycling? Have you ever competed in a body building event?  I appreciate your candidness but I think that you severely under represent those that are victims of what you call "bad technique." Why do you not include them in your answer. I could have the best technique ever seen on the field and still be laid to waste by someone who decided my neck isn't something they had to worry about when battling for that first down.
So what do you think the league can do for those that become victims of this game? What can be done about those that feel they don't have to answer to karma? Those that regardless of best intentions fall by the way side? Not you, obviously you are a lucky man...one who's luck I hope continues to multiply because you're fly as hell, and besides, I dig what you do. But what about those other players that do what they love and get run over by the game? Don't recover...can't remember the names of those that loved them most? I'm sure we all heard that scratch unconditionally, as well as heard the narrator in that stupid whiny south park voice.  Fuck Terry.  FLEX You're awesome Terry Crews. What's your workout schedule? What's your pre/post workout? What's your typical breakfast/lunch/dinner? My dad used it. In the beige tapered bottle. When I was growing up, I knew Old Spice. It's been my go-to deodorant for years. You just described it like a defensive assignment from a coach you love who had your talents planned out accordingly your show is amazing.  you are very funny.  how do i get pecs like you? Jezz, man, I just got on reddit after a long day of specifically being NOT me. As a lover of your work, I just want to say thank you for this comment. It hurts me tremendously, but I think I needed to see it tonight. "Work out"

Hmm... Is Adam Sandler and Vanilla Ice best friends now or something? Lol That entire movie. I feel like none of the people I know get the genius behind how incredibly amazingly stupidly hilarious that movie is. I fucking love every minute of it. It introduced me to you as an actor, and I've been a fan of your work ever since. You never fail to make me laugh. Hopefully, you know I'm just one of many, many people you make chuckle. Oh no, Seth Rogen Syndrome!  I'm going to try this. Thank you for that advice. I, too, share your vision. Except he's dressed as President Comacho.  &gt;I LOVE HORSES. I love them! They are so huge, and magnificent, and beautiful, and strong! 

CONFIRMED: Terry Crews is Tina Belcher Can I have a million dollars? That is an incredibly well though out response, and I've got to say I was not expecting to be impressed. Thanks for proving me wrong! You've got my support, I'll be sure to try and spread the word about you.  I want nothing but the best for Andy Samberg. P-POWER! P-POWER! P-POWER! P-POWER! Remember Kinky Kelly and the Sexy Stud from Clerks 2? :D

Well, lets just say, things like that happen, there are videos on 
the internet available for free, and once you see them, you can 
never UNSEE them. ;) 

And as for who or what, the majority of em seem to be guys getting
serviced my mini-stallions, full sized ones, donkeys, etc. 

As for other things you can never unsee, and this one is mildly NSFW
http://www.zoofur.com/Silicone-Equine/  Follow the link if you don't 
mind waking up screaming for the rest of your life. :D 

When it comes to actually watching someone have sex with an animal 
in real life, it's sort of like seeing a post wedding Hell's Angel's orgy, 
to be on the guest list, you at least have to be well known to the 
subculture, which of course, would have some attending risks.  Its got electrolytes... I've been slowly reducing for a while now; I'll keep that all in mind. Am I the only one who doesn't see it? I guess I've never seen Terry Crews look lifeless before.... Hey, Terry, I know this will get bear-ied but did you really discover an undiscovered muscle? Because I would believe that. Could you ask waze gps navigation to reintroduce your voice on the gps? I really thought it was the best voice directions on a gps, ever! "At the rouuund about...TAKE THE FIRST EXIT!" I never missed a turn when I was scared shitless into turning when you told me to. Lol Where is your bench, first off? If its 125, then just add 5 every time. If its 260+ or so, it can get a little more complicated. Don't forget Sandler will have the hottest wife his movie budget will allow.  Terry Crews, you have been my crush all my life! My mom is terminally ill, did you ever go through any hardships? If so, do you have any advice for a college girl? Your response style coincides with your old spice commercials So what happens if you get logged out of reddit?  Awesome thanks for that! My niece is really in to edm so I might share some of these with her. TK Maidza (I think that's right) is her current favourite  There was an internal company contest to win tickets to one of the exclusive SiriusXM concerts that they have every so often. Don't remember who was playing, some young pop group, (Beiber, One Direction, something of that nature, IIRC)

Danny invited a porn star to be his date. Not as a stunt for the show, but as a legitimate "I know is person, she is a fan of that band, I would really like to fuck her, so I will invite her" date type of thing.

One of the higher ups in management heard of this, called him in his office to try and nix it, expecting it to be a stunt and knowing many executives would be bringing families to this concert. He knows a powder keg and wanted to make sure there were no matches, you know?

Instead of calmly explaining that this wasn't a stunt, they will be respectful and discreetly enjoy the show like everybody else, and moving on, Danny was a total asshole to the manager. Completely disrespectful. I'm talking sitting back in the chair and putting his feet on the manager's desk, being a total smart mouth, condescending, shit-ton of attitude.

IIRC the final straw was the manager saying something to the effect of "please take your shoes off my desk, and refer to me as "Mr. so-n-so" to which Danny replied with a smirk and a "fuck you"

Left work with all his shit in a box. I just listened to the first one and it seems that Anthony was the asshole. Opie was right, whenever Anthony went to tirades about his ex wife (as he should, since it was such a frustrating situation for him), Opie always backed him up and was "there for him." But in this clip, Anthony is just being dismissive. I saw your interview on Jimmy Kimmel where I found out you were from Flint, MI. Do you ever visit the Torch for their burgers whenever you visit? Yet he is light enough like you were holding 2 grapes? I don't know of any agents that deal with comedians in Atlanta. Mainly because we don't need any agents for comedy. Atlanta is a great place to get your chops built up and learn who you are as a comedian, but it's still not a city comedians are moving to. It's true that when you are ready, agents will come to you. There is no need to look for them for comedy. Many of the comedians from Atlanta whom have agents now got them for other ventures, and not comedy.

For acting, J Pervis Talent Agency, Houghton Talent, and People Store are probably the best bet in Atlanta.


The Laughing Skull open mic is a very welcoming show for beginners. That's the first real show I ever did (unless I count Mulligan's down in Peachtree City, GA which is now closed). 

Urban Grind Coffee House is another great show for beginners if you want to meet some great comedians in Atlanta. The crowds are usually light there, but it is such a fun room to do.


Star Bar is kinda difficult to get on, just because of how many people want on it, but just going to that show is awesome.


Of course, the other two clubs (the Punchline and the Improv) open mics are awesome for beginners as well.


There is an [open mic Google calendar](https://www.google.com/calendar/embed?src=ef83b0ga4q4mhfa9vrsrlvk2po%40group.calendar.google.com&amp;ctz=America%2FNew_York) that lists a majority of the open mics. The only one I would recommend not starting with is Uptown only because it's a difficult room. I'm still tentative to go there because of how hard it is, but that's how you grow.


Improv is a great tool to have for Stand-up, but they are two different (often headbutting at times) forms of comedy. Stand-up is more of a writing game, and Improv is more of a performing game.  *snare drumming* yo yo, wusup og triple og, og triple triple og? Hi there Bill, I would like to know: What you think about the rapid growth of the amount of robotic machinery in the workplace? An issue I notice, and I don't know if you do, is people have a hard time feeling the muscle. They do the movement, but rather than do the movement, feel the muscles contracting and relaxing. Its the difference in feeling it in your biceps vs your back, or triceps and shoulders vs chest.

Feel the muscle, not the movement. what's the weirdest/sketchiest venue for comedy you've seen or heard of? Why was it not charger's ball after Terry Crews had the ball? My name is HELLOWORLD in hexadecimal. :) Maybe it's because you loaded that question like a .44 magnum? Bah! Six years of engineering school down the drain!  It already does effect other countries via 'free trade agreements' with the US.

http://www.ilaw.com.au/public/ftaarticle.html

&gt; **What changes have we agreed to?**

&gt; ... The second change of note is the requirement that Australia introduce an equivalent regime to that provided by the United States Digital Millennium Copyright Act for the resolution of disputes between those who are, or claim to be, copyright owners, and Internet service providers who are hosting allegedly infringing content.

&gt; The third change is the clamping down on the treatment of circumvention devices, which in simple terms are devices for circumventing copy protection schemes. Under existing Australian law, the ownership of a circumvention device is not prohibited, and the use of such devices for purposes of study and research or reverse engineering is explicitly allowed. The Australia-United States Free Trade Agreement will see these concessions reduced. Go read his first one. Just as gold.  what crossover do you see between the scenes? Is there a requirement on how many horn blasts you have to give when crossing a road? I live near railroad tracks and swear the train gives a solid 30 seconds of horn while moving at 3mph every night at 2am. &gt;And the world will EXPLODE when we do something together.

Bruh I'm already googling old spice fanfics

fake edit: WELP FOUND A MY LITTLE PONY ONE. DONE WITH THIS. Same thing said about taking the fighting out of hockey. I think I saw you dominating the leg press at my gym one time, I was just in middle school and everyone was saying, "cheeseburger Eddy is here!" 

I thought it was so cool to see that (at least I think it was you) either way, it inspired me to go harder on all my lifts since then! Did the Longest Yard increase your enjoyment of eating McDonalds? Honestly, it changes.


If I had to gun-to-my-head choose my favorite of all-time I'd say Steve Martin because of his views on comedy as well as his material, but as far as material only I'd have to go with Woody Allen right now. Bill Burr is in the mix as well as Louis Ck and Bill Hicks. I just love to laugh, so if someone makes me laugh, they are my top at that moment in life. I think Iliza Shlesinger is a phenomenal comic. I like her live sets better than her specials, but she is top 5 favorite comics right now and closer to number 1 than 5. I don't know who you are or why I should care. This is like me coming on reddit and saying I'm "insert whole name here" Ask me anything! Why would anybody care? You're just another normal human being like the rest of us. Don't try to be special. That's exactly why I love the Svend press. I can actually feel the lesser-used muscles contracting You're an inspiration to all of us, Mr. Crews! I was wondering, what time in the morning do you start your workout? This can be explained in the terms of the mechanical advantage of levers (Torque 1 = Torque 2) torque = force * length (length in this case being the distance from your shoulder socket, the fulcrum). Torque 1 is the force applied by your pecs * length (from pecs to socket). While Torque 2 is the force of gravity on the bar * length (from elbow to socket). Considering that the length from elbow to socket is significantly greater than the length from pec to socket, in order for T1 = T2 to remain true, your pecs need to apply a noticeably larger force in order to just hold up the bar.


However, if the length from elbow to socket was shorter (I.e. you have shorter arms) then your pecs don't need to apply as much force to get T1 = T2.


Let me know if I missed anything. Can you help me get swol enough to play various instruments  with my muscles? Hey Mr. Crews! Huge fan! You trying to put together a dollhouse on B99 was one of the funniest things I've seen in a while. My question may be too late and a little different, but what is your workout routine? Is there a place I can find i online? You're a great inspiration you big beautiful man you.  Man, one of the first episode where you open the fridge pull out all thE protein you eat on a daily basis...I actually believe you eat that much protein daily.  And I recorded that scene on my phone just so I can cherish what a  "real protein intake" is when workingout, and building muscle i'm late but screw it i'm gonna ask anyway.
what's you're favorite song to use as a reference track for EQing a room? I have tour a couple of females to the strip clubs before. Apparently one wanted a secret life as a stripper (almost got up to dance), the other one wasn't having much fun.

There are plenty of options for gay and single females, but to be honest, it is not my expertise. I am open to go though! I know where the clubs are, the prices, etc.

No couples have hit me up to go on a tour and I wouldn't be able to offer much more than those that are single. I don't have a gf and do not know of any swingers clubs or things of that sort (but I know it exists).  Doit then see us over at r/subaru  do you feel that wearing a lipstick and a wig, is further proof there is an agenda to emasculate the black male?
 There was one show, and I can't remember where, but it was an Ethiopian Diner type restaurant which I'm pretty sure doubled as a brothel or sex-slave auction house. The only reason I'm not sure between the two is because I didn't accept the offer of "Do you want any of these girls?" from the owner. They were attractive women, too, but I just couldn't afford them. I knew that by looking at them. Chocked. Choked.  "Tiny Terry loves his pickles"

"I DONT EVEN LIKE PICKLES JAKE!" Direct questions from u/popochica original amarequest. 


1.- How did you get to be a stand up comedian? 

2.- How was the first time you did it? 

3.- How people around you reacted to it? (family, friends, etc.) 

4.- How do you prepare for every show? 

5.- Are you happy after you finished the show? He could call it The Terry Cruise How long is your penis? I miss you Terry, I miss you telling me which direction to turn.

Why aren't you on Waze anymore Terry?

Also, I loved you as President Camacho. Try typing correctly when you cant breath That's just unfathomable to me. Hey Bill, my question: What would you say is the single greatest thing man has ever created? Calm down.  There's still a hundred movies with all men to one with all women in leading roles.  Forcing a 50/50 split is just as forced as all women, but it also comes with a side of seeming like a calculation, like the generic [five token team.](http://tvtropes.org/pmwiki/pmwiki.php/Main/FiveTokenBand) I feel like if your can configure your car to be unsafe this is a failure in hardware design on the behalf of the manufacturer.

If a user can hack the car to be unsafe, what is to say a dangerous bug in the manufacturer's code doesn't already exist?

Software is amazing, but complex software with no bugs isn't something you can ever claim to have, there need to be at least a basic level of mechanical failsafes to ensure the vehicle is safe. What was your favorite movie you acted in? The longest yard was hilarious because of cheeseburger eddy.  &gt; Isn't the only way to use Bitcoin to avoid harm from a bank failure to keep the bulk of your savings in the form of Bitcoin?

If you were to use asset X as a form of insurance against bank failure, then yes, you would need to own asset X in proportion to the amount that you would want to be protected (replace X with bitcoin, gold, collectible bottlecaps, etc).

&gt; And isn't Bitcoin value incredibly volatile?

Yes, but historically [volatility has been going down](https://btcvol.info/), and it's almost inevitable that it will continue to go down in the long run as more players enter the market.

Bitcoin represents an entirely new type of asset, a *digital commodity*, that has never existed before. It should be fully expected that large fluctuations in its value continue to take place as the market figures out how to appropriately price this new technology/asset. Thats the kind of confidence I want to have  Is going to the Hong Kong Club worth the trouble/ risk (gas, hotel, passport, crime, etc.)? DA DA DAAA Hi Mr. Crews. First of all, I want to thank you for all the great performances you've been part of. B99 is one of my favorites.

I also loved you in "Balls of Fury." What was it like to work with Christopher Walken? Have you worked with him in anything else?

Thank you. HOW ARE YOU SO INCREDIBLY AWESOME A PERSON? That is all.  Not surprising you say that. B99 was created by Michael Schur, who also created parks and rec, and produced the later seasons of the office.  i agree, i have very sensitive skin and have been using medicated unscented stuff for over 10 years, well i got some ban clear gel once and tried it.. didnt cause me to break out and itch crazy like the gillette shit does. Now i love it, smells awesome. r/theydidthemath ? Rob Schneider is about to find out it isn't easy being a prick! http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Heaviest_trains

http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/MS_Allure_of_the_Seas

http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Maersk_Triple_E_class


Yep, it's true. Course, as rail freight increase, they'll need to build more 
Triple E Class containerships to move more intermodal freight,  and then 
more/longer trains, to fill/empty more container ships, etc, etc. :D  Terry is 6'3", 46 years old, and weighs 245 lbs. He works out intensely 7x a week. Assuming he is natty, to maintain, he would have to eat around 3587 calories per day. He'd be eating around 196 g of protein daily.

[Source](http://iifym.com/iifym-calculator/) Terry, big fan, love your old Spice work! Q: what's your faith like and what's the culture of Christianity in the Hollywood scene? Ya she's hilarious. I watched Chelsea's stand up on Netflix and she made me laugh to tears ...what risk? 

You cross the border just like thousands of other people. You get in a cab, it drops you off at Hong Kong, you get on a cab, it takes you back to the border (if that's all you want).

No need for passport if American. Hotel is optional. Gas depends on how you see it or where you coming from. Crime is rare for tourists and has never happened in any of my tours (or nothing to me in the past 3 years of living here). Tijuana has the reputation of being the scariest criminal cities in the world, but it is not. It is not unheard off, but it is similar to many other big cities, and lower than many other Mexican cities. 

 Aaaannnd you just became my favorite celebrity. Best of luck with all things.  Great story! You should really check out children of Bodom though. At least try it out. Although I suppose if I associated their music with a broken nose, I wouldn't like them either.  Thanks for sharing.  No, its this app called Reddit. Its helps me pick what things I want to pay attention to. Sometimes its helps me go back and find things... like cats. I didn't know I like cats but Reddit thinks I do.  &gt;
edit: 44x22

Holy shit, are you wider than you are tall?  I get the sense that there is good advice here and I'm just not old enough to fully "get it" yet so... Saved.  Thanks TC! What drove you to introduce the new Fail Army youtube videos?
Did they ask you to drop a shoutout or did you take it upon yourself to  do it? Damn "Ok, I know you're upset, but B99 is triple platinum." That scene in White Chicks is one of my favorite comedy movie moments in history, because of that if me and my friends are on a road trip and that comes on we reenact the entire dance you do in the car. It's amazing. between which scenes? Sex-beer-music-art-etc?

Many people of all sorts (men, women, young, old, etc) end up in the same zone that brothels are at, because some bars are in the same area. And many times they end up going to brothels because bars close and brothels never do (also... cuz fun). 

Tijuana can be a very intermingled city.  Hello Bill, 

What Five Books would you recommend anyone read? Maybe something that gave you a new perspective on life, eye opening, informative. Just looking for something to read =)  What you said was clear. I'm saying it's stupid to conflate language and writing in the first place. Maybe you weren't doing that; in that case I misunderstood. But it certainly didn't seem that way when you dismissed people's arguments on the grounds of bad spelling. (It's not at all a given that linguists would have perfect spelling, by the way, especially since the field as a whole seeks to describe how language is used rather than prescribing what some people think should be correct.)

There are objective differences, yes. Not objective differences in complexity as you were claiming earlier, unless by that you meant "this language is complex in this way while this other language is complex in this other way". It's true that these differences can make second language acquisition difficult, but as you say now, it's based on what you're familiar with. That little snippet wasn't present in any of your previous comments and is the major source of contention here.

If that was your intended argument all along, then yes, I think we're saying the same things here. Geohot did get sued under the DMCA before though. That's why. The authors of the tools can and do get in legal trouble. Who has been your favorite person to work with? **PLEASE READ THIS MESSAGE IN ITS ENTIRETY BEFORE TAKING ACTION. ALL AMAs REQUIRE PROOF**

[Please review our guidelines on what is acceptable as proof.](http://www.reddit.com/r/IAmA/wiki/index#wiki_3._what_constitutes_.22proof.22.3F)

If you intend to submit public proof, please edit a link to your proof into your current post and [message the moderators by clicking here](http://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2FIAmA&amp;subject=Post%20Review%20Request&amp;message=I%20have%20added%20proof%20to%20my%20post,%20please%20review%3a%0d%0a%0d%0ahttp://www.reddit.com/r/IAmA/comments/2u64m5/i_am_tvbox_ask_me_anything/). This must be proof a reasonable person believes verifies your claims. The mods **strongly** encourage you to provide public proof.

If you absolutely cannot provide public proof, you can work with the moderation team to confidentially verify proof of your topic or subject. *Remember: Mod verification requires unequivocal proof*. [To submit confidential proof, please click here](https://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2FIAmA&amp;subject=Need+Confidential+Verification&amp;message=My+AMA+needs+to+remain+confidential.%0d%0a%0d%0aMy+proof%3a%0d%0a%0d%0a%3Cinsert+proof+for+verification+here%3E)

       
If you believe you have received this message in error or have another question - [please message the mods by clicking here.](http://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2FIAmA)


*[I am a bot](/r/AutoModerator/comments/q11pu/what_is_automoderator/), and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2FIAmA) if you have any questions or concerns.* Life is too short to play stupid Flame sex? Seriously, is /r/oldspice a thing? And if not can we make it a thing? Ah, the old "mining centralization" "problem." The recent price dip, with many "industrial" mining operations being forced out of business, would seem to speak against the supposed quasi-monopoly power of these outfits.

The reality is that the system that Satoshi designed was meant to deal with all of this through the mechanism of difficulty adjustment (which, contrary to what many believe, can do up *and* down). This means that when the price dips, miners who perhaps invested too much capital in too-large operations will get squeezed out of the market, allowing smaller operations with less overhead to pick up the slack.

Mining was always meant to exist just on the *edge* of profitability; the positive side of this is that it will encourage the development of clean and renewable energy, as miners seek to reduce their energy costs as much as possible. . Didn't know that they got sued. That's stupid.  &gt; You don't want to go to war, and have nobody shoot you.

This is as far as i got; im pretty sure that anybody who has been in a war is going to disagree with you entirely. TVBOXUSA ["It's Jim Carrey in 'whatever, you'll pay to go see it, fuck you'."](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EFLuIn6lj5g) I bet he wouldn't treat his secret Santa like shit like you did.  What happened to your voice on waze? It was awesome but they took it off? Was there some contract dispute ? Can you get it put back on, I love hearing you telling me to "turn left" &gt; Doesn't gold have real intrinsic value due to its natural scarcity and the costs of finding/mining/producing more?

Bitcoin also has value, by that same argument. The genius of bitcoin is that it represents the invention of *digital scarcity*; because of the proof of work mechanism, you can't just go create new bitcoin out of thin air, you need to do real, verifiable computational work to get them. Holy fuck how did I not know about this show yet? Classic Andy.. Trying to act like he's a part of Terry's crew. My buddy Mike Frey is the guitar tech for Rise Against. I will ask him about it (although I think 6 years ago he was working for My Chemical Romance or some such) That's a very good point. I literally had not ever thought about the matter that way before. I can hear it! The voice!  Gotcha. what about cartels? I'd imagine sex money to them is no different than kidnapping/drug money. but if someone has a machete to your neck, just gimme the ol' wink wink.  ;-)  going off of the original pic/thread ( http://www.reddit.com/r/WTF/comments/2u3f45/modern_medicine_is_insane/ )

how does the leg muscle function after you just cut it all up like that?  

Surely there's more to it than 'okay lets stitch him up' How's it like working with Eric Wareheim of Tim &amp; Eric? Advice on telescopes? TIL Terry Crews has better grammar than I do. Most people don't associate muscles with brains. FML.

Edit: A word. See? I'm a huge metalhead...I just can't get into Bodom. I'm a vocalist and I judge bands pretty harshly on their vocals, and that's what kills them for me. Alexi is a terrible vocalist and they use keyboards too much for my taste. Wish I could get into them though because their other instrumentals are pretty badass. Were you the guy who fixed that glitch with the drums in Nebraska back in November? My cousin needs clinical deodorant, the active ingredient is something like 20% (I forget) where the normal amount is something like 12-14% (I'm guessing but it's somewhere around there). But it's expensive, so he buys Old Spice instead because it's at 18% This is pretty late but what do you use to bulk and what do you use to cut?  Duuuuuude dude I heard you were just at Quicken Loans in Detroit. Why didn't you stop by my office dude? Yes their characters in the show are, but they also are in real life We never had vests until a couple of months ago. And what's worse is that I work in the back, and I still have to wear a vest. I kinda thought Tivo and cable companies that sell dvrs licensed content from providers to be able to offer that feature. Again just what I thought, i am not super well informed on the subject. Terry, you're my favorite.  Thank you so much.  You've got a great attitude, a great message, and nothing but love - and it's so refreshing.  Everything today is sarcasm and irony, and here you are and you're just honest and kind.  Thank you. Sorry for late reply, and thank you for your concern. I called and spoke with my doctor, the Gastroenterology specialist. He says this is one of the primary reasons that I am getting a colonoscopy, and am being treated with such powerful antibiotics for so long, and have the provided painkillers. If the pain gets worse, or it appears on my right side, he DID say call him again to see if ER trips, or Cat Scans, are needed. Theres Bruce Campbell Old Spice commercials? ! What does Victoria talk to you about? But then he would have to walk not drive. Wooooow....

Thank's for writing all of that!  Smells like the comments our comments should smell like *opens you tube - watches major lazer video. Oh yes! 

Very fat women in very small clothing

Parents bringing their little kids shopping at 1 in the morning.

People higher than the Empire State building walking around, interested in everything. back never had to wear a vest only a badge, thats shitty. I was in electronics and did fuck all, went to the back to"look for stuff in lock up" or walk around the store..I was paid to talk to customers and pretend to be busy when managers walked by. Hell I even lowered prices  &gt; If Bitcoin is decentralized, where are mined bitcoins coming from?

You can imagine bitcoin as a giant ledger book. Mined bitcoins are simply added to "the book" (actually, [the blockchain](https://blockchain.info)) after the mining computation is verified.

&gt;The Bitcoin protocol?

Yes

&gt; Wouldn't that be considered centralized?

Why? Mining computations are verified by every computer running the bitcoin software around the globe.

&gt; what tools are used to mine them

Mostly, custom-built chips (ASICs) designed specifically to generate the SHA-256 hashes that are required for mining. Look up any bitcoin explainer youtube for more.

&gt; Finally, how do the laws of economics work (supply, demand, infaltion etc.) work on decentralized currency?

Supply and demand work like they work anywhere else. There is a fixed supply, and bitcoins are issued on a fixed schedule until [21 million are issued](https://en.bitcoin.it/wiki/Controlled_supply). Demand is still being figured out by the marketplace. :) I'm 6'3 245lbs. I look nothing like Terry. I think I would have to get down to like 210, then gain nothing but shredded muscle to look like that. Unfortunately, cheeseburgers don't eat themselves.  A. My preference is honestly Mello Yello in vast amounts...That or Vodka...in vast amounts.

B. I spit only what's real. I won't conform to the mainstream idealisms. If I rap about it, I live it. If I don't live it...what's the sense in writing about it? Thanks for asking!

BTW I like your answers to my questions too haha!
 Plenty of fresh ballast on that track, and one like that, it's probably just a spur for loading/unloading to a factory/warehouse/something. Unlikely they'd push more than 30-40 cars down it at once. 

If they did, the guys with the rail maintenance truck would be nosing around first. 
http://www.railway-technical.com/train-maint.shtml
http://randomrailwayimages.blogspot.com/2011/08/2009-07-24-rail-maintenance-unit.html

Generally the track maintenance monkeys do a good job of keeping the tracks from falling apart, coming unbalasted, or doing anything really really bad like that scene from the movie Hancock. 

http://www.commondreams.org/news/2013/11/10/300-foot-flames-crude-oil-train-derails-and-explodes-rural-alabama
 TWO BROTHERS

        -Rick and Morty Surprisingly, nothing super crazy.

However, one time someone started playing porn in the over head speakers. 

That was awesome Aluminum mixed with sweat is what causes the staining. Old Spice has a higher than usual concentration of aluminum, which is great if you want to save money vs clinical stuff but bad if your chemistry is prone to staining.

I had the same exact problems - stains, breakouts, and all - and switched to unscented arm &amp; hammer (aluminum free) and wear cologne instead. It's a lot easier for me to find than the other user's recommendation of Tom's so you could give that a shot.  QQ over at /r/MensRights I love Terry I think silver surfer was on fantastic 4 movie a few years back. But not as a major character. So there is still am opportunity Thank you! I will definitely keep this in mind. Shelby County. It's kind of the middle area for people traveling from Louisville to Lexington or Frankfort. It was a small town growing up but it's been developing fast in my adult years. I like it here. I probably will never leave.

No, actually Toyota is somewhat of a direct competitor to us. You are right about their significant presence though.  Wife or dog Fuck, I love you Terry Crews.  Dragon Age: Inquisition does, too. Before all the protective equipment too many kids were dying or getting seriously injured. This question was addressed. We don't have any regular hours what so ever. I can tell that the cast of B99 must be very close from how we everyone plays off each other (or it at least seems that way). What's it like being part of such a close and well-cast show?

By the way, it's one of m favorite shows. I hope it gets syndicated one day! Hi there, your topic is not suitable for /r/IAmA. [Here's our rules on what are and aren't acceptable topics](http://www.reddit.com/r/IAmA/wiki/index#wiki_8._what_topics_are_and_are_not_allowed.3F). Feel free to post this over in /r/CasualIAmA, thanks.

*[I am a bot](/r/AutoModerator/comments/q11pu/what_is_automoderator/), and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2FIAmA) if you have any questions or concerns.* Spot on. How did you get your start in acting and what kind of advice would you give to an aspiring actor? did you ever feel stuck, so to speak? This is why i just got a barbell, weights and a power rack. If I can watch TV then I can definitely work out 2 feet away

You inspire me to work out!  What's your favorite back and bi routine?  It is common for new conductors to work a lot of switch engines before moving to pool freight. I work on a Class A railroad, we don't have nightmarish track. That curve looks overgrown. It looks like a guardrail on the inside there. basic outline of a routine for the most perkalicious pectorals? It's a last resort because there is always damage done by cutting open the body and pulling on and moving muscles/tendons/ligaments/bones.  Things can go wrong and even if you're fixing a problem, you're effectively creating others by opening it up in the first place.  

Each procedure has its own set of risks and possible complications, but it's important to understand that doctors won't operate on someone simply to improve the function of a joint; the patient must also be in pain and/or experiencing significant detriment to quality of life.

Recovery varies depending on the procedure.  Rehab is very important in all joint replacement, and possibly more so for things like shoulder replacements (lots of small muscles to get back to proper function).  It's my understanding that total knee surgery is an incredibly painful recovery (there are a lot of major cuts to the bones) whereas modern hip surgery is much easier.  (Modern approaches enable some patients to go home the same day.) There's just something really comforting in knowing that even Terry Crews can feel unconfident at times.  and that's when this happens?

http://www.theverge.com/2015/1/29/7947859/once-again-unvaccinated-people-experience-a-measles-outbreak God dang it! How come I didn't know about this?! I was on reddit all day too.

T-dawg, if you see this- firstly, how you doin? 

Secondly, mofo u got so much skills! I noticed u on Kimmel, from a reddit post last night, and your drawing skills are phenomenal. Are you familiar with r/redditgetsdrawn? And would you ever be willing to draw somebody from reddit, that posts a pic on there? [Yes,](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Af1OxkFOK18) and [yes](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Yg6bZSM48vU). Yup, thank Sony for that one. That was right before the PSN breach, after he found an exploit in the PS3's hypervisor using OtherOS. 

The hilarious part? In trying to shut him up, they pissed off the wrong people, and as a result got the hypervisor ripped apart by aforementioned angry linux users. Now everybody has the encryption keys to the PSP and PS3, and they literally cannot stop you from hacking either console because you can make the any code "legit" as far as the hardware can tell.

[Here's the presentation the group gave on the exploit.](http://www.ps3news.com/PS3-Hacks/Fail0verflow-27C3-PS3-Exploit-Hacker-Conference-2010-Highlights/) Sony has been bad at PR and security for a long time. All procedures have a particular "approach" to get at the bones.  Shoulder surgery is typically done through the "delto-pectoral interval" for instance, where the surgeon works between the deltoid and peck.  Effectively, the muscles are split apart.  In the case of the total femur you saw, the muscles are largely being split apart but kept in tact.  There is a proper procedure for sewing the structures back together, but you are right in that it's kind of simply "let's sew him back up."   Look up something called GCOR 5.8.2 it is the rule regarding crossings and is based on law in CFR 49. We would just as soon not blow it at all. We get tested frequently y management on this one. The duration and sequence is well spelled out there.     Who would win in an 
    arm wrestling contest, you or 
    Dwayne 'the rock' Johnson? I used to be a music journalist for my own site from 2006-2010, but started at 13, finished at 18. What I take from your comments is to email editors with your own pitch and see if they'll take you on? I always come up with good ideas for things but running my own website and sending out press inquiries was so tiresome. I'm also super impatient so counting down the days to the 2 week rule to interview musicians and ask for photo passes really killed me.

Also, do you think I would get a better leg in having done this before? The website isn't up anymore, but I do have interviews saved. Sadly, not screen capped (website guru got upset I wouldn't give her the name for her own music endeavors an ultimately fucked me over on that front). So, how do you decide to became a comedian?  [Link because yes](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6EiBJPMIn8M) 1.- I started acting in high school (my first show was *Antigone* where I played Private Jonas [the comic relief]). My first show was at a dead karaoke where my friend and I (17 years old at the time) asked if we could just get on the mic and do comedy. He regretted it. It was bad. It wasn't until my second year in college (2010) where I started taking comedy seriously, and made up my mind that I wanted to do it full time.


2.- I kinda touched on my first time on stage, but my first time where I actually decided to make it a career was at the Laughing Skull Lounge in Atlanta, GA. Great club. Love every chance I get to get on that stage, but this night the headliner (Margaret Cho) for the weekend popped in to the open mic and did a set. Right before I went on. Luckily, I brought a lot of people (the first three rows) that would laugh at me no matter what. They helped drown out the silence coming from the rest of the crowd. Even though my material wasn't great (which I developed through a step by step how to book by Sandy Shore) and that I could tell it was only the people I brought laughing, I still had a lot of fun, and I wanted to get up and do better next time. Which I did and still want to do.


3.- I had a good support group with my parents and brothers. I think my second oldest brother is funnier than me, but he is into cars that go fast or something like that. Never got into it. I have a saying about friends. "It's nice to have friends outside of comedy, they remind you of how unfunny you are." I took a lot of shit from my friends, but just today actually one of them said, "You got it right. Even though I'm making more money than you right now, I fucking hate my job, and you're doing what you love. You got it right, man." That was probably the nicest thing a friend ever said to me about my career choice.


4.- Rehearse my set. Listen to some up beat music. Get the blood flowing. I like to have energy in my set because the audience feeds off the energy you bring. If I can chug a Redbull before each show I do that. I always try to have at least one brand new joke or tag or bit or something that I'm trying out because it reminds me to grow every time I'm on stage.


5.- That depends on how well I do. Short answer, Yes if it's a good show. Nothing beats the feeling of leaving the stage on a huge applause break. It is honestly better than sex. And I always get a rush of adrenaline that I love during the show. Long answer, No. I always know there was something more I could have done either prior to getting on stage, or during the performance. Even if there really wasn't, I still think this way in order to force me to work harder. I always record (at least the audio) of my set and listen to it. It sounds so lonely on playback because it's a bad quality recording where it barely picks up my voice, and even less picks up the laughs. There is always something in my set even if it got a great response where I can say, "If I did it this way, maybe it would have been even bigger." and I'm not happy until I've tried it that way I thought of. Let's getcha sworn in! Indeed, there is a "law" in orthopedics called "Wolf's Law" which is effectively "move it or lose it."  A bone that gets no use deteriorates, including all the structures around it.  The funniest experience of Christian Bale's career is not setting the bar high. How much did it cost to freeze your eggs?  Do you have to pay out of pocket or does insurance cover it? I miss-typed. I'm fat, but not a rectangle fat. Ah, I vaguely remember that story. Being able to run Linux on a PS3 was pretty sweet, and then they mucked it up. The whole OtherOS business was so nice, and then they turned it into a mess. Never actually owned a PS3 myself though, but I've surrounded myself with Linux devices, so it still pissed me off as well. Didn't realise it was the same guys as those who made Towelroot.  It's unlike anything else on tv it's so original and hilarious Holy shit thank you Cartel presence is gone from Tijuana. Though still there, it is said that one side of the cartel controls the city, so violence has been declining. It is nothing like it was a few years back when Tijuana was all over the news with cartel violence.  I would think it's better to load/unload your kid on the side that won't be in traffic. It's just that simple. Start going to open mics. Get up where ever you can, get stage time, and write, write, write, write, write. You can never have too much material. If you have a job, don't quit it because that is a great place for material, and will give you some leeway with the financial side of it. Being a comedian is not a money game. It's an art game. You do it because you love comedy or writing or performing or something. There is money to be made. Corporate gigs, writing jokes for others, running your own show, starting your own club, cruise ships, road comics, club comics, children's comics, there are so many ways to make money, but it's not a financially stable career choice at first. Have you played the previous two? What's the ~least~ crazy thing you've witnessed? I mean is, what occurs on a "typical" sex tour? What do you recommend to people who don't know what they'r'e doing, or haven't been on a sex tour before? Are people usually looking for something specific, or do they defer to your experience?  Derp! Grab me a beer, get-chu one too.  &gt; You don't want to go to war, and have nobody shoot you.

As someone who went to war, this is the preferred outcome. Even better if they never even shoot at you. It's 24 carrot comedy!

I don't even dislike Rob Schneider, but damn this whole bit is so funny ... Hey terry, seeing how built you are, how much do you reckon you can lift?  Is it physically possible for a comic to not open their set with "So...how's everybody doing tonight?" I'm glad somebody said it You're awesome. For me it's because her character is a photocopy of Aubrey Plaza's from Parks The question everyone everyone really wants the know the answer too.

How much yogurt do you actually eat? We'd love to see you partying it up at TomorrowWorld this September! I'm gonna be honest, i wasn't too fond of you  before b99, now you are one of my fav characters in the series, how does it feel to star in a comedy series? No, thank you for letting me share that. I saw those as a young lad and they have been a part of me ever since. I live right down the street from an Improve. Not uncommon for "A" list comics to perform here. I know every situation is different, but what is the typical pay arrangement between these comics and the club? I too too showed up late, and am deeply saddened this is not a thing. Terry Crews should play Barret in the FFVII movie. my answer is 'How do you not?'

after working all day I need to go throw some shit around for a while. Idk why, but this comment was hilarious to me. Terry's comments make me really happy, then your naivety in this thread was the icing on the cake. Thank you and enjoy the gold.  Hi Terry! 

I've been a big fan for as long as I can remember! Anyway, is there any secret or people in your life that you owe a great deal to for helping you achieve the physique you have today?  Fair enough. I'm happy you've at least given them a chance. Rather than some bullshit excuse. How about a top ten metal bands? Just curious.  It is. It is **VERY** possible. In fact, I encourage it. I start out most of my sets not like that. You'll see this a lot at open mics because the comic doing it is still uncomfortable starting their act. You barely see professionals do this, although, it is an easy go to way to get crowd to make noise. It also is a gauge of how together the audience is. I said this before that a group of people are more likely to laugh than individuals. There can be a full room of individuals, and, "So...how's everybody doing tonight?" or a some variant of this is a way to get them to respond as a group. I just saw demetri martin live... i was fortunate to be backstage during the show, and he was incredibly focused and professional.  He's my favorite comedian in the last 10 years, and it was great to see that his personality didn't change off stage (though i had very limited interaction with him, i got to see him interact with the crew a bit).  

have you worked with any headlining comedians who were total pricks or any that have gone out of their way to help you? You hit the nail on the head. I think that's why it's such a feel good show for me. I can't help but be happy when I watch it :)  Why? **PLEASE READ THIS MESSAGE IN ITS ENTIRETY BEFORE TAKING ACTION. ALL AMAs REQUIRE PROOF**

[Please review our guidelines on what is acceptable as proof.](http://www.reddit.com/r/IAmA/wiki/index#wiki_3._what_constitutes_.22proof.22.3F)

If you intend to submit public proof, please edit a link to your proof into your current post and [message the moderators by clicking here](http://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2FIAmA&amp;subject=Post%20Review%20Request&amp;message=I%20have%20added%20proof%20to%20my%20post,%20please%20review%3a%0d%0a%0d%0ahttp://www.reddit.com/r/IAmA/comments/2u68ml/iama_trying_to_raise_1000_for_a_cheap_beater_car/). This must be proof a reasonable person believes verifies your claims. The mods **strongly** encourage you to provide public proof.

If you absolutely cannot provide public proof, you can work with the moderation team to confidentially verify proof of your topic or subject. *Remember: Mod verification requires unequivocal proof*. [To submit confidential proof, please click here](https://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2FIAmA&amp;subject=Need+Confidential+Verification&amp;message=My+AMA+needs+to+remain+confidential.%0d%0a%0d%0aMy+proof%3a%0d%0a%0d%0a%3Cinsert+proof+for+verification+here%3E)

       
If you believe you have received this message in error or have another question - [please message the mods by clicking here.](http://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2FIAmA)


*[I am a bot](/r/AutoModerator/comments/q11pu/what_is_automoderator/), and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2FIAmA) if you have any questions or concerns.* Hi there, your topic is not suitable for /r/IAmA. [Here's our rules on what are and aren't acceptable topics](http://www.reddit.com/r/IAmA/wiki/index#wiki_8._what_topics_are_and_are_not_allowed.3F). Feel free to post this over in /r/CasualIAmA, thanks.

*[I am a bot](/r/AutoModerator/comments/q11pu/what_is_automoderator/), and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2FIAmA) if you have any questions or concerns.* Why are you so goddam buff? https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7a6EOyaMdqY Seriously.  Terry should come to art center for grad show. He'd love it I just want to say, you are my hero. I know you must be told something like this a lot but you are an amazing role model.


Because i need to ask something


How far do you think B99 will go? Hey terry, best exercises to burn fat and slim down? How much do you eat per day? Can you give us an example of what your meal plan looks? What's brilliant about an overused Reddit clich? So *that's* why you can do pull ups in your sleep! It all makes sense now  Do you feel guilty when you serve Double-down and Double-dogs? Thanks for the great answers! Thanks for the great answers! Neat, thanks.  Are you Warlizard from the overused joke? Never served double-dogs I think only Japan has them, but for the double-downs I actually think they are pretty good so no guilt there.  Yep. Beaten to death almost 4 years ago, the dessicated bones are kicked around by bored people and I dance to their tune, oh yes, I dance... Depending on the popularity of the headliner, the club pays a flat rate for the weekend (usually, broken down in a per show type payment). They get paid after the last show usually in check form handed directly to them after the last show. Headliners are awarded bonuses for selling out a show, and that price varies as well. You'd be surprised how little comics get paid now. Talking like 75% less than what they got in the 80's. Some club comics are still bringing in like 25k a weekend, but some clubs only offer up to 3k a weekend. The 25k a weekend comics are kinda grandfathered in at this price.


Clubs are not really making money on the ticket sales though. They are making money on food and drink sales, and it's getting harder to bring out audiences without big name comics with a long list of credits.


I think I just rambled and answered your question somewhere in there. Please let me know if I didn't. why aren't you more transparent about how much funding and strategic communication your group receives from Google and other tech companies?


I'll never trust you as a fully independent organization till I know why your organization is their obedient puppet so often.


The DCMA is awful, as is the MPAA AND RIAA, etc., as well as the ultra corrupt former politician Chris Dodd. But until the EFF fully explains it's own relationships with the private sector, I won't trust that it's long tern agenda is aligned with the public good, and I'll continue to suspect that the EFF'S agenda is just a shell for the tech companies that back it, no matter the detriment to the public.
 Lol, I'm motivated to go to the gym the minute I wake up shirtless and see myself in the mirror. Maybe people need more mirros.  I wonder if Terry would be able to knock out a horse in one punch...  Great answer! If I take the time to ask a question it's great when the AMA'er puts some thought into their answer. How has this comment not gotten Reddit gold? Why am I not just giving it Reddit gold rather than leaving this comment? I'm giving it Reddit gold. Any one every get seriously injured there? Have you ever licked a lamp post in the winter? I feel like every brother would be little compared to you. Just sayin' AHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHH!! KEYBOARD SOLO!!! Hi there, your topic is not suitable for /r/IAmA. [Here's our rules on what are and aren't acceptable topics](http://www.reddit.com/r/IAmA/wiki/index#wiki_8._what_topics_are_and_are_not_allowed.3F). Feel free to post this over in /r/CasualIAmA, thanks.

*[I am a bot](/r/AutoModerator/comments/q11pu/what_is_automoderator/), and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2FIAmA) if you have any questions or concerns.* So Terry Crews is a high level Madden Warrior with a two-handed Game of Thrones thing and Disney skill-tree focus.  Got it!

*imagines how that looks.* ...can I upvote him twice? Please? How often to do things, such as phones and whatnot, go sailing out of peoples pockets/hands/bras? 

I've always been curious how one goes about getting their _____ back after its sailed into a bush or something. We've got everything - Modest Mouse Are you interested in helping me start a union? no sir :( This is an amazing thought. You just might have changed my life. Thank you for that.  U ever performed in California? If so, where? Hey Bill, have you ever thought of doing an Ayahuasca retreat in Peru? It's picking up as something to be quite popular in the future and I believe it would be an amazing experience that you could gain excellent benefits from.  The puaMovement is just a new heading, a new movement popularized by the 2005 book "game" which taught men, how to hit on chicks and possibly get laid. I remember I bought the book "Game" and learnt few new tricks, new lines, how to meet women in various circumstances and open a conversation to break the ice. I personally don't see anything wrong with it, as long as it is a healthy arrangement between two willing adults. The problem creeps in when some people abuse this beautiful man-woman relationship and abuse their position to get laid and move on. To them the prize was screwing the woman and then moving on to the next target. 
Teaching confidence to men is a tremendous job.
The second part of your question deals with the idea that women in the west are better off because they enjoy the equality of sexes which is non-existent in countries like Pakistan. I love you, Terry! People who know things cost money. Hey Terry, I live in West Covina and I heard a rumor that you go to the Faith Church in WC? Is that true? Do you still go? It's not unfortunate, we don't need a "movement." Men are not oppressed, we just have some weird artifacts in laws and culture that seriously fuck us over. But what we need is a bunch of us saying "yeah that's bullshit," not a fucking movement asking for "rights" lol. They are self-defeating making this into a women vs. men war - and the saddest thing is they fucking know this, and they don't care. 

On the other hand people like me continue to voice such objections in a reasonable manner, get women and men to nod their heads in agreement whenever I mention them. But I never, ever, ever fucking dare associate myself with such an idiotic movement as nobody agrees with their vitriolic methods. It's like they don't want to be heard, they only want to throw a tantrum and get attention from it.

That's right, MRA's - your biggest hatred against women, that they want "attention" is what I really think you are trying to get.  winning. /u/rabadoma for president Depends greatly on the territory as well we aren't supposed to run hazardous materials in territory that does not have central dispatching or ctc Is it true that Xcelerator doesn't always make it over the top? I gotta tell you, I'm a coaster enthusiast, but I almost had a panic attack on the Windseeker last time I got on. The realization that I'd go flying across Buena Park if it broke messed with my brain. A month later, it got stuck in the air. So it goes. How early do comics typically have to arrive at the club?  I too love Old Spice. Because of this I can't tell what's real and what's not anymore. Am I a marketer for Old Spice? GOD DAMN IT REDDIT. thats actually a fantastic marketing maneuver  Can I have some free tickets? Do you call your group of mates the 'Terry Crews crew'? Reddit has apparently never heard about women in hatchets going into bars and breaking shit during the temperance movement where men were seen as all evil and violent because of booze. Now they fucking whine about women wanting more women in video games as the greatest evil Western society has yet to face and utopia will commence once Anita Sarkeesian is no longer relevant, and all society will hold hands in joy, etc.

I want to see the reddit headlines when they see this:

http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Carrie_Nation#mediaviewer/File:Carrie_Nation.jpg

Literally fucking the flip out and ordering for her murder, while doxxing her and literally killing her lol.  Howdy fellow up employee how's your oak tree Inn treating you? Is it attached to a penny's diner as well?  This is awesome.  Is it weird that you will always be cheeseburger Eddie to me? Who has been your biggest positive influence in becoming who you are today or who you want to be one day?  Ok, I guess I can see where you're coming from, I can't really change your ethics. I see death as bad, you don't. But what I will point out is that, according to Aubrey de Grey, at least all the rich countries, which would by then include India and China, would provide the gerontological treatment for free as alternative healthcare spending  could be massively cut, since all age-related diseases would be gone.  I've been fortunate that I have not ran into any headliners that were total pricks. There have been some disputes, but nothing overly dramatic due to someone being a diva. It was just miss-communications. Most comedians are super nice, and just good hearted people.


Ron Funches (and his Feature Rick Glassman) and Iliza Shlesinger were just so nice to me. 

Iliza brought her father to the show and Iliza, her father, and I hung out after at a local bar (with a few members of The Walking Dead cast and Vampire Diaries which was awesome as well), and then after we went to a diner and they paid for everything. It was just above and beyond a nice gesture for them to do that to a lowly opener as myself. 

Ron Funches and Rick Glassman were just so much fun to talk with because they seemed generally interested in getting to know me more so than anyone else I worked with. 


I'm still waiting for one of the people I've worked with to throw me down a locket of their hair so I can climb up to Rapunzel with them, but if that never happens, then I'll find some other way to reach the top. I can't be grateful enough for all the opportunities that I've had  thus far in my career, and I can't wait until I am at an even higher level where I can help more comedians get their start and grow. I can't thank the people who have helped me to where I am enough, and I'm sure I'm going to have a lot more people to thank before it's all said and done. No, I disagree with the notion that the partition was good for both countries. I think it was a historical blunder. To start with close to two million people were killed or displaced. Any act that leads to such unimaginable violence and ethnic cleansing cannot be good, any way you see it. And look at the two counties now-on war status. An undivided India would have been better off.  YOU'RE A WANKA I'm very happy to answer. Thank you for the question! I love talking all aspects of comedy. Keep them coming! Mr Lahey, is that you or the liquor talking? hey warlizard, it's interesting to see you in this thread. a few have made the same old joke, but i'm glad to see you out and posting interesting questions on a challenging topic. i notice that the question you posed doesn't have an answer from OP, but i want to throw something out there.  

the question itself is questionable. "they're just chickens, we're going to eat them anyway". consider that - it's something you're going to take into your body, which will either nourish or poison you. food is life. i'm as curious as you are as to what OP would think about this question, but i have to throw in my own opinion - it matters how food is raised. if it didn't matter, we could live off of soylent green, our society could be sustained easily off of cricket flour, human and other debris. all kinds of funky stuff.  

so, although there's no response from OP, i have to respond and say that it matters how food is raised *exactly because we're going to eat it anyway.*  

 Remember it says "manhood". Axe will make you smell like you're ready to wear a button-front casual shit in da club. Old Spice will make you smell liek you're ready for a stable, committed relationship with a partner who likes the same kind of dogs and can tolerate your weird little habits because you're adults and can do that. You and I used to live the same lives, my friend. Just did what my manager wanted, then, basically fuck all. Lock-up was always a great excuse to get away from the bullshit. "Where are you?" "Oh, I'm in the back doing picks/binning." "Oh, Ok!" Then, I'd be left alone for as long as I was in there. The rest is what I would do too. I flew the Harvard T-6G and F33 as trainers, then flew th Sabres F86 and lastly flew the MIG-19.
I was never shot down, or shot anyone else.
No, I did not have any interaction with Imperial Irani Air Force. The Terry Crews commercials are written and directed by Tim &amp; Eric, you'd probably enjoy that show too! &gt; Go to the gym, don't even work out. Just GO. Because the habit of going to the gym is more important than the work out. Because it doesn't matter what you do. You can have fun - but as long as you're having fun, you continue to do it.

This is without a doubt the best advice i have heard anybody giving out for people looking to get motivated to go to the gym. Just incredible. I have always been a fan of your work Terry, but you now also have my admiration. Hahaha it was a hilarious moment when seeker went down  but anyway. yea it doesnt always make it like most costers sometimes there isnt enough force at the launch so it just comes back Usually we tell you to keep your stuff with you or in a cubbie if you dont listen its on you. For the most part if you know where it lands we can help you out more. Usually we wait till the end of the day so we can just get it with out getting hurt Lol good GD's make past six figures as a standard expectation. More than the STEM people I keep seeing whine on reddit about being lab rats. 

 Me and my friends can't stop calling people "real McAssholes" thanks to you in Longest Yard. You are hilarious in that movie! Solid. Does any of the chicken come in frozen? Do you have to bread the raw chicken?

What would you say your lunch to dinner crowd ratio would be? 60% lunch 40% dinner?

What kind of oil do you guys use to fry chicken?
 Other than the regular ppl passing out or having their seizures not really. If youre talking about in the sense of "because" of the ride not really at least not with me. There have been cases tho where in xcelerator the cable which launched the cart up snapped and broke somones leg somehow and another time hurt someones arm Shouts to W+K! Have you ever visited Portland? Could you still play at an nfl level?? Yep, the calculation was for him *maintaining* his gainz.  I just think its amazing that a 46 year old in this day in age is not being told that he should just quit and go to an old folk's home. We're all here acknowledging he's far more of a beast than those of us half his age. "Oh no boohoo after 25 you're over the hill, those are your best years." I'm out of shape and have a belly, Terry Crews is on Mt. Everest compared to me.  Have you learned anything from your line of work that is notable?  Depends can i have some money? Hahaha idk where do you tay maybe i can try to get some I fucking* knew it! I seen you and I was like damn that's got to be T. C.  at the time I seen it I hadn't known you as  well but I was like hey that's the guy from the expendabls and "once you you go black u gon need a wheel chair!" guy so I had hoped for and end credits shout,but no  and at the time I said to myself.  He will claim that because it's such an iconic franchise. (this was the time when I was *personally* gong through my film awakening)  Everyone wants to ride the Bull man Btw very usual almost daily You should be the new Blade. Imagine blade but at a badass level of Terry Crews Can you tell us about any regulars or oddballs? "The" muscle one. I've never thought of it this way. I enjoy the gym but my body hurts 24/7 and the gym only makes it worse but if I can enjoy the gym doing basic things I can ramp it up slowly. Thanks :) The white liqour How come I can't find a San Diego Chargers jersey from when you played? Do many people actually know you played football, like co-stars etc? That would be Terry, Terry does the sketches. Woah... So you're a lawyer (you're wealthy) for the porn industry (awesome) and you're from Australia (you're hot). I love everything about this ama He came here to party, he came to smoke rocks. Really? Do you happen to have a source? I thought Sony still had the rights. Can you tell us five unwritten codes , which most comedians follow, that an average person wouldn't think of?

Are there any "old school" traditions which are still followed? This is one of the least assuring posts I've ever read. I haven't seen the movie, so thank you for this. Hilarous! I love the gleam in his eye.  He always gets in prickly situations.  The only chicken that comes in frozen and needs to be defrosted would be the strips and the bites besides that we have all the bulk amount of chicken in a fridge. 
Yes, I have to bread the raw chicken.
Close but it is usually 60% lunch and 40% dinner we tend to slow down the later it gets.
The oil that we use is Sunflower.  Anyway i can help? 1. Typical sex tour (after doing a basic Tj tour, I don't like my guests leaving only seeing one area of the city): Hit a couple of the best clubs in the red light district, explaining how everything functions (prices, etiquette, what is best for your money, VIPs, safety, hotels, to bring your own condom since prostitutes usually have shitty ones with them, etc), then if the client is going to have fun, I could either wait for him or call it a night, depending on the situation. 

2. Not to spend all your money right away. Not to go with the first girl that approaches. Not to go with the hottest youngest girl at the place. Don't do anything you are not comfortable with. Respect the rules of the establishment and don't get too drunk. Just because you are in Tj doesn't mean you can do whatever you want.

3. People usually defer to my experience. They haven't asked for anything too specific other than looks/price/sex act (I help translating the negotiation of what they want and are looking for if the girl doesn't speak much English).  Yes. Can you crush an apple with your bare hands? Careful, I bought Old Spice, and even thought it's wonderful for your underarm smell and perspiration, it leaves some intense shirt stains. haha thanks.. I meant 60 40.. my numbers added up to 110%  What do you eat at KFC?  If anything. (Or what should I get?) I guess the amount of upvotes this is getting is making me feel less embarrassed for feeling the same way. What an awesome guy. I wish we were best buds. As long as it doesn't sound like you smell.  I don't think my ears could handle that.  

Jk, I'm sure you smell like old spice like the rest of us........right!? You say "having their seizures" like it is a common occurrence. Let 'em breathe  **PLEASE READ THIS MESSAGE IN ITS ENTIRETY BEFORE TAKING ACTION. ALL AMAs REQUIRE PROOF**

[Please review our guidelines on what is acceptable as proof.](http://www.reddit.com/r/IAmA/wiki/index#wiki_3._what_constitutes_.22proof.22.3F)

If you intend to submit public proof, please edit a link to your proof into your current post and [message the moderators by clicking here](http://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2FIAmA&amp;subject=Post%20Review%20Request&amp;message=I%20have%20added%20proof%20to%20my%20post,%20please%20review%3a%0d%0a%0d%0ahttp://www.reddit.com/r/IAmA/comments/2u6cd1/iama_deli_employee_ama_about_what_cold_cuts_you/). This must be proof a reasonable person believes verifies your claims. The mods **strongly** encourage you to provide public proof.

If you absolutely cannot provide public proof, you can work with the moderation team to confidentially verify proof of your topic or subject. *Remember: Mod verification requires unequivocal proof*. [To submit confidential proof, please click here](https://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2FIAmA&amp;subject=Need+Confidential+Verification&amp;message=My+AMA+needs+to+remain+confidential.%0d%0a%0d%0aMy+proof%3a%0d%0a%0d%0a%3Cinsert+proof+for+verification+here%3E)

       
If you believe you have received this message in error or have another question - [please message the mods by clicking here.](http://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2FIAmA)


*[I am a bot](/r/AutoModerator/comments/q11pu/what_is_automoderator/), and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2FIAmA) if you have any questions or concerns.* What's your favorite cut?  Ya know, I get you.  I see what I wanted.  Someone to break the mold in a different way.  Someone who truly had/**has** hope for humanity,  if you were to run for any office of power I would support you if I had the ability.  

You remind me of someone who worked hard and got to where they are because of luck(and hard the hard work of understanding reality) and they know most people are not dumb but just unlucky/powerless(speaking to reality) to make a lot of meaningful change in their daily lives.  People like you give me hope and make me wish you had more say in what happens to our home because it is the mindset that would make lasting changes to our planet.  How do you feel about the supposed unethical treatment of chickens by KFC supply chains? 

*"The chickens are stuffed by tens of thousands into overcrowded sheds where they hardly find space to move freely. To save space and avoid chicken hurting each other, the sensitive chicken beaks are cut off with hot blade without giving any painkillers.Overcrowding and poor litter quality in the farms also caused painful ammonia burns on the chickens. The injured chickens received no treatment and had to bear the pain throughout their life."* -PETA Governments have glowing approval for major drug companies that produce stimulants and pain killers, and yet they've outlawed cocaine, methamphetamine (home cook, not desoxyn), and heroin. What happened to value of those commodities? Does it suck not being Bill Gates? So, this one regular that we have always complains about his food and tells us he will never come back, but give it two days and he orders the same thing and the cycle starts all over again.
We don't really have oddballs just people who are dirty.    "Yeah." - ML Probably is trying to pull done freebies. We get all kinds of ppl there from all over the world! Supposedly according to our newsletter about 4billion i feel like they are exadurating but anyway we occasionally get them so its not new to me anymore. I do take my part to care for the person. So dont get me wrong  Apparently there's a guy who's doing an AMA right now who can sketch and paint. &gt; Adam Sandler Western

Was it [The Ridiculous Six](http://www.cinemablend.com/new/Adam-Sandler-Western-Comedy-Ridiculous-Six-Dropped-By-Warner-Bros-67596.html), that was dropped? I've never been to a KFC before. What should I get and what should I avoid? This right here is something I have just discovered works very well in my life and has been doing well for me since. It's funny that people say the best way to connect to people is to just be yourself, but it's something else completely to do it and see that it works. Keep up the good work man. Well, the only thing I eat at KFC is grilled chicken when it is freshly made. If it is not, I tend to stick to strips,  or hot wings. 
What should you get, well if you head to KFC at night only get original chicken (all the other things tend to be sitting there for awhile). If it is during the day stick to the original chicken, or the mash potato bowls and strips.
 When did your master Lord Murdoch, honoured be his name, take an interest in cryptocurrencies? I read your book, and wondered if the "NoFap" following had anything to do with you kicking porn? Just curious. I've studied Computer science, just a bachelor. Hello Bill Gates, since you're a genius and basically like the maker of 60% of the world. As in Windows.(Just an estimation) And my question is: Is it possible to hack everything? For example, I've seen videos of people hacking cars with a laptop so it came to my mind that it's possible to hack everything right? All it needs is a transceiver to send and receive data and from there a laptop/smartphone can be used to tap into that device and send data/codes that tells the device to do specific things. So is this possible? This is going to be a long one. I apologize for the wait. I did my internship at Accenture which is a SAP consultancy company. I learned it 'on-the-job' and followed some seminars. Hi Bill, many ideas involve changing a specific thing in the target environment (cheap/clean energy, better medical care, sanitation improvements, other new technology, etc).  Do you think that even bigger efficiencies (lower cost/impact, higher rewards) could be gained through radically restructuring the communities?  Using the US as an example, one can ID huge structural inefficiencies in every aspect (bedroom communities, transportation, inefficient homes, education, health) that really can't be meaningfully addressed piecemeal.  To really make a difference, don't we need to start with a clean slate and redesign communities/ processes from the ground up? We need a photoshop of Terry Crews curling Andy Samburg. Yes, that's true. It's not that hot anymore but still one of the most used ERP systems for big company's. 
Yes ABAP is still the programming language. Why didn't you put your name in the title? First time seeing this and I am at a loss of words.
   Systems, applications, products.:) &gt;Because it's long overdue.

Haven't there been tons of famous female actors since the beginning of film/tv industry?


 &gt;Women are great, and funny, and amazing, **and smarter than men** - for real!

Damn I love you dude but It's tough for me to swallow you genuinely believe this to be fact. Don't drink all the koolaid Terry!

 haha, yeah it worked the first time he did it, but we caught on. I've actually read Angela's Ashes, I really enjoyed it. Check out : "A Child Called it." Represent! Yes, you must look at this free online course website: www.coursera.com there are a lot of courses about web developingg.
Also, you can check this: www.khanacademy.org . A full tutorial about html/css and some javascript lessons. I have always been told I'm a funny individual and I've always made people laugh my whole life. I have really been looking into doing stand up or just any kind of comedy because I hate working in a factory doing the same thing over and over again. I feel stuck because I can't seem to figure out how to get out there or where to even begin. and when I do get my hopes up, I put myself down by telling myself that there's no way it's going to happen. did you ever succumb to these obstacles and how did you deal with them? thank you What should you get, well if you head to KFC at night only get original chicken (all the other things tend to be sitting there for awhile). If it is during the day stick to the original chicken, or the mash potato bowls and strips.
Avoid, the pot pies it is made from left over chicken.  Thanks for sharing this wisdom Terry, it was exactly what I needed to hear!  @Maisie_Williams
So... It's finally happening. At 2/3pm UK time tomorrow, I will be doing an hour long Reddit AMA. Username: MaisieWilliamsAMA See you then
_____
Yeah! [**@Maisie_Williams**](https://twitter.com/Maisie_Williams/)

&gt; [2015-01-29 22:50:05 UTC](https://twitter.com/Maisie_Williams/status/560932923550232576)

&gt; So... It's finally happening. 
&gt; At 2/3pm UK time tomorrow, I will be doing an hour long Reddit AMA. 
&gt; Username: MaisieWilliamsAMA
&gt; See you then

----

^This ^message ^was ^created ^by ^a ^bot

[^[Contact ^creator]](http://www.reddit.com/message/compose/?to=jasie3k&amp;amp;subject=TweetsInCommentsBot)[^[Source ^code]](https://github.com/janpetryk/reddit-bot)
 Thank you! Terry Crews how do you deal with the things that you might have done and regret doing them in the past?  Old spice is pirate slang for rum. 
That's why there is a ship on the cover.  Do you like Grand Theft Auto games? Hi there Terry, you've been in Brazil last year, did you have a good time ? First of all, thank you Terry! I could tell this is the best AMA in Reddit just by the title.

Second, what is your favorite quote from your acting career?

Third, do you use a speed bag at all in the gym? My brother got one recently and I am super interested in that stuff now.

Fourth, what was the most hilarious role you had to play? How many takes did you have to do to finish the take?

Finally, thanks for not only being an amazing football player, but the greatest actor out there. Also, make sure to protect your McNuggets! Fellow LFK metalheads! The Granada is fucking fantastic, it's like my musical home. I'm still bummed that I wasn't able to make it to that show, it looked like a particularly good one. How is Brooklyn nine nine going? I have just binge watched it all  except for the last two episodes. I think it is a great show and have become a bit of a fan. But one of my mates (Who is also a huge fan of the show) reckons it was struggling but has heard it has picked up a bit. 
Will there be more seasons? I am so tired of getting interested in a show only to have it cancelled. I will thank you! /r/hailtelevision Damn straight. Money.  It doesn't make you happy, but it gives you sooooooo many options.  Like Terry said, make your own pie! Haha go broncos!   Terry Crews you the real MVP.  woah gilded x2? thanks gilders! I am not paid to say this either, but I have been disappointed with every Old Spice product I have ever tried (that being two products, a body wash and some aftershave product).

But despite not really having a desire to use any of their products, I somehow still want to buy them, just to thank them for having such excellent marketing. Every ama with this guy is awesome. Nicest guy ever. If he ever comes to Sydney I want to buy him beer. I first became a fan of your work when I saw you on My Wife and Kids. Which cast members did you enjoy working with the most?

 Why are going messing around with jam in the gym? Surely there is a danger of broken glass not to mention the spilled sticky mess on the equipment etc? It was great. The best show I've seen there was Nile a few years back.  **PLEASE READ THIS MESSAGE IN ITS ENTIRETY BEFORE TAKING ACTION. ALL AMAs REQUIRE PROOF**

[Please review our guidelines on what is acceptable as proof.](http://www.reddit.com/r/IAmA/wiki/index#wiki_3._what_constitutes_.22proof.22.3F)

If you intend to submit public proof, please edit a link to your proof into your current post and [message the moderators by clicking here](http://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2FIAmA&amp;subject=Post%20Review%20Request&amp;message=I%20have%20added%20proof%20to%20my%20post,%20please%20review%3a%0d%0a%0d%0ahttp://www.reddit.com/r/IAmA/comments/2u6esm/reddit_im_coming/). This must be proof a reasonable person believes verifies your claims. The mods **strongly** encourage you to provide public proof.

If you absolutely cannot provide public proof, you can work with the moderation team to confidentially verify proof of your topic or subject. *Remember: Mod verification requires unequivocal proof*. [To submit confidential proof, please click here](https://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2FIAmA&amp;subject=Need+Confidential+Verification&amp;message=My+AMA+needs+to+remain+confidential.%0d%0a%0d%0aMy+proof%3a%0d%0a%0d%0a%3Cinsert+proof+for+verification+here%3E)

       
If you believe you have received this message in error or have another question - [please message the mods by clicking here.](http://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2FIAmA)


*[I am a bot](/r/AutoModerator/comments/q11pu/what_is_automoderator/), and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2FIAmA) if you have any questions or concerns.* I'm late as hell, but John stewart pls. I remember one of the funniest Old Spice things was not even a commercial. When NFL games come back from commercial they usually have an announcer read a couple quick "this game brought to you by Subway: Eat Fresh" type things. And earlier this year one goes "Old Spice, is what I was paid to say into a microphone!" Also FUCK YOU! Hey Terry Crews I gave you a high five in Hollywood when you came out of a theater, during the time the extendable movie came out in 2010. Do you remember high fiving people? sad to hear that. all students in China study English.it's easier to learn English with native speakers. so you teach them more than they teach  you.haha. btw,where do you live? I'm Chinese too. I *LOVE* spa's. "Everything louder than everyone else." Spa days?! 5% Body fat here I come! Math doesn't check out.  As someone who is scared to be myself, I'll take your words to heart, I'll just go for it Are you sad that what you are cooking is not Col. Sanders recipe? Did you know that KFC sued him when he complained? Terry Crews, you're the man! That is such an inspirational comment. I would hate to be an actor because you're subjected to such complete scrutiny, every nuance on your face is read an overanalysed, when you're the center of attention every weakness and insecurity is under the microscope, to find complete personal freedom in a moment like that is truly epic. Congrats on all your success!  Would you say you are... Homebound? Thank's brother. Have an upvote.
 What did you think of Idiocracy? How much material generally fills a set for you?  Go through his previous AMA. Still one of the best ones I've read. To keep the average user out. They just have a different mindset than most companies, kinda like "we know what's best for you" in terms of user experience.  Apple would rather have you get your screen replaced to their standards than have you do the install (with possibly an inferior screen or installation) to ensure the right "user experience" of using an iPhone. Most people hate that. 

Also, Torx screws are better suited for manufacturing and assembly than pentalobe screws, so it would be harder to maintain quality if they used them throughout the whole product.  Terry, are you confused as I am that you're not Harry Crews, the brilliant post modern author? Who the hell are you Terry Crews and why are you not post modern and brilliant? he misses his privacy. in public It isn't? Do you have any proof of this? 

Really!? What's your opinion on Church's Chicken and Popeye's? Or their chicken compared to KFC? Obviously it's Kwazy Cupcakes Log Ride? "it's just called Two Brothers" Thanks man! Terry, how did you became an actor? Did you always wanted to be one? And when did you realize that you had the beautiful gift of comedy and being funny?


Also, you are an amazing person Terry, me and my friends fucking love you dude. We're all in our thirties and have been fans for a long time. One of our favorite Terry scenes is the rap-scene from Puff, Puff, Pass. That "shoot ya in ya throat, make ya blood go spilla" lyrics followed up by the teacup-move made the whole movie dude. You're amazing, funny and a wonderful person. Keep being you, Terry! - Love from Sweden
 Did you know that you can actually go shopping *on the internet*?

[Here's](http://amazon.com) a mostly unknown, super-secret online retailer where you can buy nearly anything. Maybe they even have this Old Spice you're looking for?

Seriously though, don't tell anybody about that website. All the good websites go to shit once everybody else knows about them. How do you dance so well with whistle in your mouth?! I apologize for the impertinence, but how can you fix what is inherently broken?

I know it's popular to pretend that we're all reasonable people who are capable of compromise, but that's not always true. Certainly that's not true in the case of wealthy organizations and individuals, who still ingenuously insist that copyright was and is designed to protect the rights of the poor artists, even though history and experience demonstrate that it's actually designed to amass more profit for wealthy organizations and individuals. Copyright has always been a situation where wolves and sheep negotiate about what's for dinner -- no matter who compromises, the wolves are going to win.

Isn't it time we stop pussyfooting around the notion that the fruit of the poison copyright tree can somehow be nutritious, and that the DMCA can somehow be "fixed" so that copyright will return to a fictitious benign state?

End harmful government-granted monopolies. End theft of culture. End copyright. Wow, I have always loved Chris (as everybody do), but i've never thought about that it was you who was the dad. You know what I'm saying. You can't wholesale distribute/sell someone else's digital creation without their permission. If you're selling discrete units and didn't steal them, then that's fine. Check Wikipedia to start, its in the section of his later career.  Bruce is for the small furry creatures from Alpha Centauri. Or as Bruce said in the spider-man2 video game: "something else" Never had Church's chicken before always passed by it. I always 
thought it was a little too ghetto from the outside though. 

Popeye's  is amazing especially because they have fried shrimp. Never really ate the chicken there because I usually satisfy my appetite at KFC.   
 Terry, Western Student, how do you feel about the PJ Fleck and the direction of WMU football? How about you do it instead? new comer here Man i am not gay or anything, but this made me smile with happiness. I had little goosebumps reading this. I Love you man. The great thing about stand-up is that there is an infinite amount of ways that it works. There really aren't unwritten codes that most comedians follow because the path to success is different for each comedian. I'll try my best to think of 5 codes I go by that I think the average person wouldn't think of, but they will probably end up being 5 bits of advice I got or heard someone else get.


1. **It's never the audiences fault, although, sometimes there are bad audiences.** Laughter is a group sport, and if the consensus of the group is that we don't want to laugh, why are you at a comedy show? I've been on a few shows were the audience didn't want to laugh, and not just for me, but for everyone on the show. We didn't do anything wrong as performers and they didn't do anything wrong as an audience. It was just a bad audience, and it was our fault we didn't make them good. A lot of audience members will dismiss comedians that are not making them laugh because they think they aren't funny because they aren't a "big name" comic. (at open mics this may be, but on weekend shows, it's probably not true. I say probably because I've seen some people on weekend shows that should not have been there). On the flip side of that, I've seen "big name" comics get laughs just because they are a big name. Their material was just bad, and not well written, and they delivered it poorly, but yet they still got laughs just because they were them. 


2. **Comedy is not a competitive sport.** Comics stick together. Yes, there is always going to be feuds, but generally we stick together. We are a special kind of people that usually don't fit in outside of comedy. If we get offered a show, but we can't make it, we recommend other comics we like and want to help out to take out spot.


3. **We hate when people ask us to tell them a joke, and we always talk shit about that person.** This is going to sound stuck up, but comics are not joke tellers. We work on an act, and then perform that. When someone says, Oh , tell me a joke. It doesnt bother me that much, but I know it is annoying for someone to think we just tell jokes on stage. Its an insulting question that probably doesnt mean to be.


4. **Comedy is a business.** There are hobbyists out there, but the comedians that are trying to make a living are working hard to do so. We are just salesman when it comes down to it. We are trying to sell ourselves to the audience as well as the bookers. We are trying to be artists but give the people what they want. Its a fine line to walk because the job security is almost non-existent. We could be on top of the world one year, and the next year we are half of that. Dane Cook is a great example of this even though I think he is hilarious and his new special Troublemaker was amazing.


5. **Never Pay for Sprite.** It looks too much like water, and it's an easy way to save a few dollars on a drink.



I'm sure there are a few old school comedy traditions we still follow, but I can't think of that many. They vary from club to club, too. I know the Punchline in Atlanta, it's a tradition to sign your name on the greenroom wall. The tradition of helping bring up the ones below you. If there are any big traditions I don't know about them, I'm still young in comedy, so I'm sure I'm going to learn some.



Sorry this took so long. It was a good, hard question!!! How was wire invented? Two Scots spotted the same coin.  
  
*I am a bot. To summon me, include "tell me a joke" somewhere in your message.* Uh.. 46 is not that old at all. Many people in their mid-forties are still very active, even much older than that. Take care of your body and it will last. I reallc like the dynamic that B99 has, I was really hesitant to watch but I seriously have a new found respect, I've always liked Andy, some times I hated him only because I hate the game "what celebrity does chris look like" but I can totally see the genuineness of it all, my question is about The Captain, is he half as somber in real life half of me feels like it's so effortless on his part to stay so cool but every once in a while I catch the start of a smile that quickly vanishes.  So he's exuberant in real life yes? Amazon does not ship outside US but books and certain limited items only. 

http://www.amazon.com/gp/help/customer/display.html?nodeId=201117930 Mixed berry huh.. Sounds like a Yoplait user I like that idea and I hope that's how it works out. For the love of God why did they take your voice out of the Waze app!? I loved having you tell me where to go on my road trips! I'm a Chinese and have watch this Q&amp;A.Actually I can understand what he's saying~~^-^
~ I just bought a stick yesterday, but it's gone now.... I'm a few hours late...hah...but what was it like being that ridiculous character in BLENDED? I had no idea that movie existed until it came on HBO and I watched it wine drunk one night and LOVED it. You made that movie funny. It was funny and cute and I loved it and I shouldn't have. But you seriously KILLED your role. Did you think people would be like "Oh a shitty Adam Sandler movie?" or did you just get paid enough to do it? You came on screen and I just started laughing. You are hilarious.  I'll just be waiting for the cactus to go "gou can do it, you can do it *alllllllll* night long!" How much do you like yoghurt? Can you draw me majoras mask? I seen you are an impressive artist! Firstly, love B99 and pretty much anything you're in!

Second - In your Old Spice muscle music clip, you move each ab muscle independently... can you seriously do that? How in the heck do you learn something like that? Explosions? I know the monarchy is largely ceremonial at this point, and any attempt by the monarchy to consolidate power would simply be met by revolt. It's still unnerving to me (and I'm sure a lot of people) that the armed forces swear to a person. Very reminiscent of Rome, where troops swore to their general, not to Caesar or Rome. When the generals decided to orchestrate a coup d'tat, they had control of the armies, and Caesar was powerless to stop them.  You never know where their allegiances truly lie...

&gt; vs. endless interpretation of a written article

A law can be debated just as endlessly as a Constitution. If some prior law/convention disagrees with new legislation, a Parliament (a few hundred men) can just repeal the old law, even if that old law was very important to the citizens, or an important check on government power. The Constitution has some finer points that can be debated, but there are several important parts that are very clear. You might have missed read it but what I have gathered from there is that Claudia Sanders Dinner House serves his "original recipe" fried chicken as part of its (non-fast-food) dinner menu, and it is the only non-KFC restaurant that serves an authorized version of the fried chicken recipe.[31][32]

TL/DR: Basically KFC still follows the recipe, and the Sanders Dinner house.
 When are you going to shoot fire out of your nipples or have your head explode on "Millionaire"? Im sure we've all been waiting for it. That's a oft-cited example, yes, but keep in mind that the Chinese used in the poem is an extremely archaic version and not something that we would use in normal conversation nowadays.

In terms of chronology, it's like the time difference between Old English and the current form of English we converse in today, but in terms of linguistics I don't think it's similar at all (linguists don't shoot me pls) Did you win anything? :D Hi Terry,

Hope its not too late im from the Uk so We just woke up now. I've been a big fan ever since I seen you in white chicks, Can I ask do you have to eat a specific diet to get as big and ripped as you? and what would you eat on a normal day? Wendler 531 or smolov jr Uhhh, yeah copyright is still important.

Creators have the right to profit off of their work just like inventors do. There's no incentive to create anything if financial gain isn't possible. I need money to live and if I can't make money painting, or writing, or making a movie or video game, then I'll be forced to get a different job instead of creating something.

The only reason those works of art exist is because of copyright. If you've ever created something worth selling, you'll see the value of copyright.

 You forgot the pounding the Broncos took?

They schooled the Pats last season. The pats are far from a better team this year, they've always been upper echelon and they made it one round further this year because some newbies made a push. The seahawks are going to put a trouncing on the pat.s I think you ment puncy
 I try to hit 2 punchlines for every minute I'm on stage. This doesn't include tags. Generally, sets are broken down into time five minutes, 15-25 minutes, and 45-60 minutes. Lately, when I have five minute sets, I've been trying to make it all on one subject. This way I can hit it from multiple angles and then decide which angle I like the best. For longer sets I generally have 2-3 topics per 5 minutes. Of course! Doesn't detract from the poem demonstrating that the language can use similar-sounding words for ridiculous results. &gt; To show you that this kid from a little town called Flint

I refuse to believe that Terry Crews wasn't born a MAN Then after they're done fighting Chan is the ultimate bad guy. Relevant user name Lisa needs braces. There are numerous 3rd party vendors that sell on Amazon.

Anything on [this](http://http://www.amazon.com/s/ref=sr_nr_p_n_shipping_option-_0?fst=as%3Aoff&amp;rh=n%3A3760901%2Cn%3A%213760931%2Cn%3A3777891%2Cn%3A3778451%2Cp_4%3AOld+Spice%2Cp_76%3A1249149011%2Cp_n_shipping_option-bin%3A3242350011&amp;bbn=3778451&amp;ie=UTF8&amp;qid=1422606621&amp;rnid=2944662011&amp;tag=donations09-20) page allegedly qualifies for international shipping.

Seriously dude, all you have to do is google "buy old spice international shipping". It's not hard. Shit, just find some on ebay if you can't figure out Amazon. I worked as an Apple Genius for about 8 months and lost count of the number of phones I tossed in the bin due to botched screen replacements - it's a simple job, but so many corner store hacks manage to stuff it up.  I think he mentioned once that he started going to the gym at like 16 Does he get into some prickly situations? Guess Terry Crews doesn't watch Game of Thrones. I'm assuming the AMA is over, however, for the sake of my die hard fan of a girlfriend, I have one question from the both of us and hopefully it hasn't been asked yet;

What, or who, has motivated you in life the greatest? Was it a goal, a person, or even a past experience? You are a huge motivator for me and I loved reading your responses in your voice! Haha!

Thanks! I think that the product is pretty good if you want to pay for TV. People will complain about any service provider. I prefer to get my TV for free over the air with an HD antenna and use Netflix or Amazon Prime for everything else. Have you tried to change your diet? Like limiting the food the foods that could damage your kidney function? You might as well want to know your eating habit personality here http://ckddietrecipes.com/  to help you fast track your kidney health.  Hi there, 
Thanks for you reply and i cannot disagree  with the things you said. They're actual facts :) but in my case im from continental europe. There is a huge gap between the United kingdom and the rest of Europe. In many ways we differ so much from each other that UK is considered more like a sibling to the United states. Their judiciary system, is fundamentally different from continental europe. But that doesnt mean that in the end the results and effects of their laws and jurisprudence aren't the same. Im from Belgium actually and here i think our government and soldiers pledge their loyalty to the people and the constitution. But we also have a monarch. Its a highly controversial issue in politics tho. The function of our king is formal and doesnt have any real political power. He acts the way he is told to act. He has a 'veto' power but even if he is opposed to a bill he signs it anyways because it is considered the will of the people. And congress can actually declare him unfit to rule. That was a reaction against absolute (french) monarchs. (Has happened only once a few decades ago). Our real head of state is our prime minister.
Anyway thanks for taking the time!  You're from Flint?! How were you not on the Tropics?! lol, well played "You think I'm playin'?" - The four words that make Terry Crews, in my mind. Not really though. Chelsea's character loves to get involved in other people's business, and always has funny side projects going on. If anything she's more like Tom Haverford.  And I was just thinking of going to be lazy. Time to sit in the gym and be lazy. Maybe will get on the treadmill and look at some weights.  Works of art existed before the concept of copyright was invented. Who said it was? I'm laughing at young people who think it is. Fuck your "um..." and direct it elsewhere.  That happens everyday for me. I have clinical depression, and it sometimes affects my work. Since doing comedy I have gotten better though. Comedy has been a healing factor in my depression, and although I still have full blown self-doubt, and I feel stuck because of my student loans from college. I say, well if I die tomorrow, I would rather die trying than die stuck. The reality of it is that chances are most of us won't make it to the top percentage of comedians. There just isn't enough room, but there are plenty of comics doing what they love, and making a living out of it. Where do you live? I'd love to help out, and get you up on that stage for good! How is one single movie with an all female cast an over correction though? If you are restricting your argument to just the world of ghostbusters movies then maybe you've got a point. 
But in the world of all movies - it's nowhere - nowhere near an over correction. Can we get a statistician in here?

Although personally I don't think they did it purely as a statement but maybe as a way of doing something different to the originals - a way to not have the actors compared directly.  I have a job where I'm basically on call for long stretches of time between actually working, and the gym is my go-to spot in the mean time. I can actually do my job in gym clothes if they're reasonably presentable.

I just have a nice, slow, relaxing weight lifting session 1 to 4 times a day for usually no more than half an hour. I've come to think of the gym like a playground for adults. You know how dogs are just excited to go walk around: excited to do *anything* else than sitting around all day? Channel the dog. Go move around and have fun. It's 100% better for you than doing nothing! already done! I wish rob got better acting gigs, some people only die off because of bad movies :'( are you kidding? terry IS the bull! Bite your tongue.  Bale is known far and wide for his sense of humor. The farthest west I've performed has been in Las Vegas, but I'm going to L.A. at the end of March, and I'm looking forward to it. HAHAHAHHAHAHHAHAH!
 I said to start with Wikipedia, there's been a lot of reportage of his comments and the lawsuit. http://news.google.com/newspapers?nid=888&amp;dat=19760223&amp;id=3dFQAAAAIBAJ&amp;sjid=gF8DAAAAIBAJ&amp;pg=6066,5230876 Uh... did you switch usernames to reply to lukeman? It depends per the comic. As long as you keep the show runner in the loop, and the booker happy, then you can show up right before you go on if you're a headliner. I believe that there are dozens of other questions not related to what you have stated. Yes, obviously the steroid questions could be ignored. I do not think the supplement questions will be that popular as most of them have been answered in other interviews. So I would be the perfect specimen if I had T-Rex arms. 

In all seriousness, I think this is the reason that it's so hard to get larger pecs when you have scarecrow arms. There are simply too few variables. If I could vary gravity then BOOM bigger pecs. Same goes for arm length, distance between elbow/socket etc blah blah. 

Okay, Mr. Smarty Pants. Here's the next question: my arms are skinny but they gain mass. My legs are skinny but no matter how much I work them out they stay chicken legs. Why? Wow that is very saddening. Maybe he can redeem himself by doing this AmA... maybe not, we will have to see. He said on Conan, he's been lifting weights since he was 14. I doubt he'd be that much smaller, just shorter This is my new go-to baldness joke. So you're rockin the old school, white glass bottle shit? Hardcore, son. Fiji FTW I am glad to hear this. They deserve it. Having been through a couple incidents where I was confined to a wheelchair for awhile, you just described how I made it fun! Make the best of your situation. I got to a point where I'd hold a wheelie throughout an entire TV show or have someone time me around the local track. It doesn't all gotta be bad. I have no idea what I just watched.  I'm not sure I understand this.  You want to know why someone is fighting for you to have rights? I was trying to figure out where you're from, now I have a good idea. My favorite Rob Schneider line is from Big Daddy. "Hip? Hip hop? Hiphopopotamus?! DAMN YOU, YOU GIVE HIM THE EASY ONES" &gt;I'm saying that if there happened to be a massive outbreak of polio, I would slap on a mask and go to the doctors and get a shot and stay in for a couple weeks. Those shots aren't going anywhere. We have them available at any time and they stately only take a couple weeks to build an immune response. I don't belive this will ever happen again though, whether or not more or less people choose to vaccinate. Because if you look at the actual people infected by polio it was on an already massive decline before vaccines were introduced in the 60's.

It won't happen again because people vaccinate. Every time someone decides not to vaccinate it puts others at risk, as well as the global effort to eradicate it at risk. It is not eliminated and vaccination needs to continue until it is. Despite this, you are probably correct that it won't ever spread again, but that doesn't absolve you from the responsibility to everyone to stop it spreading again.

 It wasn't in 'massive decline', it was at the end of a pretty horrific epidemic. 1955 - 58000 cases. 1957 (post-vaccination) - 5600 cases. 

&gt;"Of the 3,969 medical compensation claims relating to vaccines in the last 30 years, a quarter had been made by those badly affected by the combined measles, mumps and rubella vaccine, they say. The triple jab was banned in Japan in 1993 after 1.8 million children had been given two types of MMR and a record number developed non-viral meningitis and other adverse reactions. Official figures show there were three deaths while eight children were left with permanent handicaps ranging from damaged hearing and blindness to loss of control of limbs". Sorry, a quarter of those were from the shot. so it was more around 1k.

Firstly, this is from the daily mail, pretty weak.

Secondly, look at what the article is actually saying:

Vaccines; So not 1000 at all; they had 3 deaths and 8 disabilities in 1.3 million doses (the extent of which is due to the MMR is probably of interest. The article itself states that Japan had been using a particularly bad batch of vaccine). 

Measles: 94 dead in a similar time frame to the 4 years of MMR dosing. No mention of those with disabilities.

Not even comparable are they?

&gt;This argument is incredibly dangerous, and could be extended to almost anything. What you are essentially saying is this: "please put your child at risk for the possible benefit of mine." My response is "no thank you". It is not my responsibility to keep your child safe, it is your responsibility. Herd immunity is not proven, never has been, and there are multiple point in logic where it completely falls apart. Even if herd immunity was a proven science (which it's not) your individual freedoms will always outweigh your "responsibility" to your neighbors. If we go down your road, when do we force people to give up kidneys to save their neighbor? Logically that's not far off from what you're saying.


Firstly, herd immunity exists. [this took about 4 seconds to find.](http://www.bmj.com/content/326/7385/365.1?variant=full) - key quote to save you reading it: "control of meningococcal infection by indirect protection, by reducing the attack rate in the unvaccinated population by 67%."

Second: [Here is a suitably timed onion article to mock this position.](http://www.theonion.com/articles/i-dont-vaccinate-my-child-because-its-my-right-to,37839/)

&gt;"please put your child at risk for the possible benefit of mine." 

You're kidding right? You're comparing the non-existent risk of vaccination vs an actual disease? 

&gt;"your individual freedoms will always outweigh your "responsibility" to your neighbors." 

Until those freedoms infringe upon those of your neighbour, which non-vaccination does.

&gt;If we go down your road, when do we force people to give up kidneys to save their neighbor? Logically that's not far off from what you're saying.

I wasn't aware that vaccination came with an extra dose of kidney removal. Forced harvesting of organs is pretty far from what I'm saying. Though in organ donation terms it should be opt-out rather than opt-in. 

&gt;On top of that, this argument poses an even bigger problem. You owning a pool in your backyard is statistically thousands of times more likely to kill my child than an unvaccinated neighbor kid. Is it your "responsibility" to not own home pools? After all, in the US, they are far more deadly to kids than disease. 

No, it's your responsibility to make sure they're supervised. Accidents happen, everyone accepts that. They also require others to make sure that risk of accidents is reduced. The difference to infectious diseases is that those diseases don't have to happen if you are a responsible individual living in a society.
 I found an old wheelchair in the creek behind my house when I was about 14 with my friends while playing air soft. Don't ask me how a wheelchair got in a creek, because I have no idea. Anyways, we sprayed it off really good with the hose and it didn't smell that bad anymore, so we decided to ride down the hill that goes through my neighborhood. Didn't realize running into a bush and flying out a wheelchair at at least 7x recommended speed for wheelchairs could ever be so painful. Oh ya, I forgot to mention, it had no brakes. Just didn't have them. Still don't know what the fuck kind of shitty wheelchair doesn't have brakes on it because that would've really helped me a lot. &gt; You are a warrior. You don't want to go to war, and have nobody shoot you. You want to be in the thick of it, and test yourself.

This is more of a Berserker/Spartan-esque mentality. There are plenty of soldiers who'd be plenty happen to never see/hear a shot. I wouldn't be the least surprised if it's the majority even. Which artist, particularly painter is your biggest visual influence? Ba ba ba ba ba ba dragon I like that he described what it was a little bit. Like we wouldn't know and he was sharing a precious thing.  [*labored breathing*] (https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zWCBghizQUs) Yeah, I agree it probably has a lot to do with future movie turnout. I don't think it was very ideologically motivated. 

I am only saying people do point to it and say it is symbolic, hell Terry Crews just did. And I don't fault them for that. No way, I think that's a very important discussion and it is totally okay to look at it that way. But when people point to it as an example, I think it's an entirely fair counter point to say it would more represent over-correction. I agree not an over-correction of the industry, but still not necessarily a proper example of equality to everyone. So when people point to it as an example, I think it is a fair counter to say "I don't think we need all female casts for the sake of. I don't think this is an example of what we would need more of. I think there isn't a problem with a lack of female casts because to me it is more reflective of the demographics of the market. And besides if we wanted a true example of equality I don't think this would be it." I am not saying that is what the Ghostbusters team is doing here, but when it is pointed to as such an example and we are discussing ideals I think it's a fair counter. And I would honestly be surprised if the advertising team did not even play off of this point in the future, as they probably should in my opinion.

Personally, I wouldn't say it, and I don't necessarily agree. Definitely would not say that to Terry Crews as he no doubt has incredible basis for his industry beliefs here and seems to be such a truly caring person. But I do believe /r/clwestbr is being more downvoted just because it's easy to do with very little effort being put in to understand where he would be coming from. Hi Bill, how was it for you to quit school? were you afraid, or did you always believe Microsoft would be a great thing! Mmmm. I love that my man wears Old Spice. It's just the right amount of fresh, yet masculine.  Do think Fox will keep this show running??
You and Andre Braugher are awesome on the show and I would hate to see you guys go? (had to put the "?" for the mods...) With jake as cullen and rosa as cassandra while josephine is played by amy.

Wouldnt that be grand? How much money have you made from your book? Nice hijack, Andy.  [Agreed, Law and Order feels all over.](https://gfycat.com/WindingSpicyAsiaticwildass) Hi Bill, my question is:
What do you feel is the single most effective activity that the foundation has done to achieve your goals?
 Do you still support obama considering his foreign policy is worse or on par with bush? If you are very interested in seeing this happen, consider posting in /r/IAmARequests and offering Reddit Gold for contacting this person and arranging the AMA! Your request will have a better chance at being fulfilled than just being posted here! And if you do post in /r/IAmARequests, make sure to tag your request with [Reward] if you're offering one, or [No Reward] if not.

Users, if you want to help contact potential AMA participants (and earn Reddit Gold) then subscribe to /r/IAmARequests!


*[I am a bot](/r/AutoModerator/comments/q11pu/what_is_automoderator/), and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2FIAmA) if you have any questions or concerns.* Do you get a discount at KFC? If so, how large is it? Oh man. I found an abandoned wheelchair on the side of the road and took it to my apartment and kept it in my living room. My friends and I would get drunk and/or high and try to out-wheelie each other, but mostly just tip over. I miss that thing. Terry is *forty-six*?  Damn, yeah he looks good. The hardest part for me is going home afterwards. After the workout high passes I just want to lie down on the floor and go to sleep. I've actually fallen asleep in the gym lobby on a couch, and they woke me up when they were closing for the night.  Rob Schneider is about to find out that being a cactus can be... *a prickly situation*  It's no less real. But some people are depressed because someone said something that hurt their feelings, and some people are fucked up beyond belief, mentally unsalvageable. Once you've met a few people who you wish could die for their own benefit, you might get what I mean. the third shot of andy and terry turning towards the camera needs to become a standard reddit reaction gif And artists had to rely on rich benefactors to support them. Is that what you're proposing we return to? A creator's livelihood depends on the whim of someone deciding whether to pay them or not? You're essentially suggesting that people put all their work online for free and can only ask for donations.

I don't doubt that art wouldn't be created if there was no profit (open-source and public domain stuff exists after all), but the truly huge projects (blockbuster movies, professional music, a good novel, and AAA video games) require a return on the investment. As an average listener who dabbles in a lot of metal, why is that metal production on average is always inferior compared to other genres?

It's very hard to find an album with good production value, and every album sounds so different production wise. On the other hand, listen to electronic music and you'll be spoiled by everything sounding amazing, and listen to classical/jazz and you no longer wonder where the sound-stage went from your headphones.

Any thoughts? Get this man some silver Tiny Terry *loooooves* his pickles. how much does each piece of chicken cost to make? (Chicken, ingredients, and labor, etc.) How is it not President Camacho? Smackdown Champion porn star mother fucker. Knew it was coming, did not disappoint. U going to be in l.a. Or a nearby suburb?
 Terry loves white ~~bitches~~ *women.* I'll be in Redondo Beach, but I am planning on going downtown all week. **PLEASE READ THIS MESSAGE IN ITS ENTIRETY BEFORE TAKING ACTION. ALL AMAs REQUIRE PROOF**

[Please review our guidelines on what is acceptable as proof.](http://www.reddit.com/r/IAmA/wiki/index#wiki_3._what_constitutes_.22proof.22.3F)

If you intend to submit public proof, please edit a link to your proof into your current post and [message the moderators by clicking here](http://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2FIAmA&amp;subject=Post%20Review%20Request&amp;message=I%20have%20added%20proof%20to%20my%20post,%20please%20review%3a%0d%0a%0d%0ahttp://www.reddit.com/r/IAmA/comments/2u6ltr/the_look_on_iillegal_mining_of_tin_and_tantalite/). This must be proof a reasonable person believes verifies your claims. The mods **strongly** encourage you to provide public proof.

If you absolutely cannot provide public proof, you can work with the moderation team to confidentially verify proof of your topic or subject. *Remember: Mod verification requires unequivocal proof*. [To submit confidential proof, please click here](https://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2FIAmA&amp;subject=Need+Confidential+Verification&amp;message=My+AMA+needs+to+remain+confidential.%0d%0a%0d%0aMy+proof%3a%0d%0a%0d%0a%3Cinsert+proof+for+verification+here%3E)

       
If you believe you have received this message in error or have another question - [please message the mods by clicking here.](http://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2FIAmA)


*[I am a bot](/r/AutoModerator/comments/q11pu/what_is_automoderator/), and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2FIAmA) if you have any questions or concerns.* Why the fuck not. If for some reason these get popular, you've got Reddit to hold me accountable: I will give /u/neubourn and /u/McWitt19  a free shirt, dammit. I won't start selling them until I've got fifty confirmed interests. In the meantime, anyone know of a good printer online that I can sell through?

http://www.valencygraphics.com/terry-crews-shirts What do you think about blood cell phones and what is the most efficient way to stop the trade of illegal mining of tin and tantalite? Try The League for good cast chemistry Cool. I'm not too far (about 1/2 hr) I'll keep an eye out for ya.  Probaby one of the cutest things I've ever read, I need to go brush my teeth. Do you get paid well? 

What's the future for Australia post? Surely with internet shopping business would be booming but I still hear of job cuts.  Ypu mentioned Dane Cook earlier, what happened to his career? I never followed him ( nothn personal, just don't think he's funny) but I remember hearing about him all the time a couple years ago. Now I don't. What's ur take? Yeah yeah. I'd like to talk with you more, and see where the hot spots are for mics and just where to meet people. I'll call my people. Is medical assistant a good job. Keep up the good work. What has been your favorite moment of performing?  That one is impossible not to read in Bruce's voice.  Hi Mr.Bill I am interested in knowing your views about Virtual technology how it would be used in future for the poorer and illiterates ?  Never going to happen, he'll have to avoid so many questions on his drug use. You're lost and you're found? Primus sucks I'm in Brea. Look it up. There is an improve up the street from me. David Spade was here a couple of weeks ago .  Jeff Ross is coming next week. I plan on taking the wife to that. Do dogs get pissed off at your prescence?

Also thanks for your services, I fucking love getting shit in the mail thanks to you awesome dudes!

Just please don't actually shit in my mailbox. God damm it Terry, why are you inexplicably the best person ever? After the Burial all goddamn day.  /r/casualAMA, anyone? How's Carlos Mencia viewed among comedians? I know he had a reputation as a joke stealer (which is clearly obvious In a couple of instances) but I also know how stories are easily exaggerated in the entertainment field. Any thoughts? Hi Bill,

I tried to contact you about artificial intelligence back when you first made your Twitter account.  I did not read the comments in this section because I don't like reading.  However, I just wanted to say that you are wrong in your thinking regarding the time that would pass before becoming a threat.  The danger would come within hours, not decades.  In just a few days it would reach abilities that would make it unstoppable.  This provided it would be given enough hardware resources to expand from within from the beginning.

I'm glad you take the subject seriously.  :)

Yeah, all that would be needed is the proper set of simple instructions that allow it to write it's own instructions for becoming better at writing its own instructions.  A loop that would allow it grow exponentially in its ability.  Shortly thereafter it would build enough ability to start to learn new ways to become better at becoming better and it would branch out in numerous ways until it came to the threshold of understanding what it actually is and what it is doing.  If set up properly from the beginning, it would be very similar to starting a raging wildland fire from a single spark.  There is so much I could say about this subject!  Its the world's most fascinating subject!  It will be humankind's magnum opus!  I've spent most of my life figuring out how to do it and it is my ultimate goal in life to accomplish.  This is because it is the hardest thing to do and I decided when I was a teenager that I wanted to do the very hardest thing in life that a human can possibly do.  It's the hardest thing and most rewarding thing and most prominently, it is the LAST thing.  It is the last thing because we humans will no longer need to do anything else nor even die anymore.  Every want will be fulfilled.  That is...

That is, if done in the right way!  If done in the wrong way it will most assuredly destroy us!  Also, be sure to know that it WILL happen.  Us humans are working on it right this instant and it will happen.  The thing is though, we can have a good chance of preventing the bad version from happening by simply gathering up the most brilliant minds and putting them to work on creating it in a responsible way before someone does it irresponsibly and creates a malevolent one.  This is a suggestion you and your bajillionare magnate buddies should consider putting into action.

I saw what you and Malinda have bet on.  It will work I feel.  Every little step counts.  I too am excited for the prospects of a better world.  :)

All the best,
James Good News! https://twitter.com/Maisie_Williams/ [**@Maisie_Williams**](https://twitter.com/Maisie_Williams/)

&gt; [2015-01-29 22:50:05 UTC](https://twitter.com/Maisie_Williams/status/560932923550232576)

&gt; So... It's finally happening. 
&gt; At 2/3pm UK time tomorrow, I will be doing an hour long Reddit AMA. 
&gt; Username: MaisieWilliamsAMA
&gt; See you then

----

^This ^message ^was ^created ^by ^a ^bot

[^[Contact ^creator]](http://www.reddit.com/message/compose/?to=jasie3k&amp;amp;subject=TweetsInCommentsBot)[^[Source ^code]](https://github.com/janpetryk/reddit-bot)
 God darn it Terry, you're non-stop with your amazingness, this is probably the best A MA of all time. Oh man.. I wish he had answered :( Did you know how loved you are in brazil because of everybody hates chris? wow thanks for the story man... seems like one hell of a time being a drug dealer and all :) How are you feel, Context to the Condition of the Jews at the world? 
What is your position? I don't know about under rated. Their single Pon De Floor was like the official soundtrack of the summer in 2010ish  God damn it I love Will Forte. His T&amp;E sketches are too good. Despite Sandler, this could be an okay movie. This is an awesome way of looking at going to the gym &lt;': Just...wow. Thank you. Have you ever seen this?

http://youtu.be/otnyM9RJG4o I'm an asshole so if my buddy asked me that, I'd reply with, "Dude - I was the one that told you that."

He'd be 99% sure I was lying but it doesn't matter, as he can't do anything with it and I've stolen his victory. I think media had a huge role in it. He was one of the first comics to use media (especially Myspace) to obtain and interact with fans on a personal level. He had a huge younger following which as they grew up kinda grew out of him. He played MSG a few times to sold out crowds, so even if he never did stand up again, he's one of the few that can say that, and that alone puts him as one of the most successful comics in the past few decades. Also, he went through a lot of personal issues with both of his parents passing away to cancer within a year of each other. Isolated Incident (his least reveared special) reflected that, too. It was more "grown up" style of stand-up. Less whimsical stories with lots of theatre aspects and more set-up/punchline jokes. I thought it was a great special, but that's because I really respected him for going down a road different from his previous successes. His new special, Troublemaker, just aired last night on Comedy Central I think it was. It initially aired on Showtime, but it was good. He kinda got back to his old self, but you can tell he matured a bit. He came up in  a time where it was still not common place to have entertainment at the tip of our fingers, so his hard-work offstage with Myspace and early days of Twitter were new and exciting. Now it's, like I said, common place. I still respect him, and enjoy watching him. I never met him though. I'd like to some day.  Are you circumcised?
Boxers or jocks? This is awesome. 
I definitely saw myself in a recent episode of B99 when Jake and Terry were at the gym (I was not Terry...) I know this is a reference to something, but I can't tell what. /r/iamverysmart 
It means that we did come from "apes" but there had to be some extraterrestial intervention, for us to mutate into "humans"..

 Even though I love Glowbug project I also miss The Ghost and The Grace, will the song "Emanuel" be ever released? Wow, what an insight into the business of marketing!

Can Terry teach me for my advertising course? An amazing tip! I'm using this! Brilliant! How much yoghurt is that? Where in Australia?
 &gt;Football is a sport. Racing is not.

Ftfy There is no doubt about it that he stole jokes. I mean, there is video proof and multiple witnesses of it happening. He's just another comic. Some people like him, some people hate him. It kinda boils down to writers and performers. Ritch Shydner (who is such a awesome, insightful, generous guy. I grew leaps and bounds when I worked with him) explained this to me and it made a lot of sense that in stand-up there are two types of comedians: Writers (Woody Allen, Mitch Hedberg) and Performers (Robin Williams, Dane Cook). The Writers sit down at a desk or computer or pad of paper and pen and they write out a joke. They craft it with every single word, every syllable, and then they take it on stage when it's ready, then they revise it, they take it back on stage, then they revise it again, and so on until they are happy with how it is. The Performers think of a funny topic, and go on stage and riff on it, then they riff a little more, then they cut some stuff, then they riff some more, then they cut some stuff, and they never sit down and write it out. Both ways are great, and honestly you need a little of both to be a great comic. Writers have scripts. Performers have outlines. However, Writers have more of a problem with joke thieves because it's part of the integrity of writing. This is my joke, I created it, I wrote it. It's mine unless I sell it. Just like anything else you originally create. Performers on the other hand get on stage with an outline in mind and they perform. Most of the time, when a performer steals a joke it's on accident. It happened to me. I'm on stage performing, and a funny thought popped into my head so I said it. Later on it occurred to me that what I had said was not an epiphany of thought, but it was a joke I had heard once before and forgotten where I had heard it. Luckily, the comic whose joke it was was there and was nice about it because I apologized profusely. This was less than a year in for me. One of the most commonly known thieves was Robin Williams, he was just so in the moment on stage that anything that popped into his head was already out there. He made up for it with monetary compensation, and apologies, but eventually he had to stop going to comedy clubs (on his own accord) because he would subconsciously steal jokes. That's what happened with Mencia. He's a performer, thought it was his joke, he caught some backlash, but now he's still working and still funny. He's coming to the Improv in Atlanta soon.  I recommend Ethan Hawke's last couple AMAs. Really interesting and well-thought out answers. [Here's](http://www.reddit.com/r/IAmA/comments/2sn0xd/ethan_hawke_the_second_flight_amaa/) the latest one. "Ask me anything", he said. It's just fucking magic, dude. Do you question unicorns? NO YOU DONT BECAUSE THEYRE MAGIC. That's the answer. I always thought that Terry singing in Click was the funniest part of that movie.  How much can you bench? Hi Bill, what is going on with Visual Basic 6 ? Can you finance a new version of Visual Basic 6 in your philanthropy ? We wish for a parallel version of Visual Basic 6, a Visual Basic 6.X pheonix ... According to what ive heard about other countries mailmen yes we get paid very well.

In terms of australian pay rates its not amazing but its far from terrible.

The future is not great for the standard letter. Its all about parcels these days.

Plenty of job cuts in upper management. Hi Mr.Bill Gates,
what will u do if u will be AI scientist? I promise you I will not shit in your mailbox. As to the dog question I'm not sure if it's us or the motorbikes but most dogs hate us. No and jocks. Much more comfortable. Wow didn't even know he was a DJ, much less he was in LA. Now I know and will forward to it Sydney. #1 city OCE I love how you only mention Kristen Wiig. Because I wouldn't have talked about that other one either I would say no. Such coding level is now done by the third world for almost nothing.

You can put such projects out for bidding on freelancer.com, and all sorts will underbid to get the job. **PLEASE READ THIS MESSAGE IN ITS ENTIRETY BEFORE TAKING ACTION. ALL AMAs REQUIRE PROOF**

[Please review our guidelines on what is acceptable as proof.](http://www.reddit.com/r/IAmA/wiki/index#wiki_3._what_constitutes_.22proof.22.3F)

If you intend to submit public proof, please edit a link to your proof into your current post and [message the moderators by clicking here](http://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2FIAmA&amp;subject=Post%20Review%20Request&amp;message=I%20have%20added%20proof%20to%20my%20post,%20please%20review%3a%0d%0a%0d%0ahttp://www.reddit.com/r/IAmA/comments/2u6py0/udream/). This must be proof a reasonable person believes verifies your claims. The mods **strongly** encourage you to provide public proof.

If you absolutely cannot provide public proof, you can work with the moderation team to confidentially verify proof of your topic or subject. *Remember: Mod verification requires unequivocal proof*. [To submit confidential proof, please click here](https://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2FIAmA&amp;subject=Need+Confidential+Verification&amp;message=My+AMA+needs+to+remain+confidential.%0d%0a%0d%0aMy+proof%3a%0d%0a%0d%0a%3Cinsert+proof+for+verification+here%3E)

       
If you believe you have received this message in error or have another question - [please message the mods by clicking here.](http://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2FIAmA)


*[I am a bot](/r/AutoModerator/comments/q11pu/what_is_automoderator/), and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2FIAmA) if you have any questions or concerns.* I read this while imaging Terry Crews' voice... it was glorious O.O I would wear that shit Great username I had exactly the same viewing experience. The film was brilliant up until he got to his mid teens. He seemed to become more self conscious and he just came across as offhand and not the same kid that you loved seeing grow up. Of all things, I loved your Muppet commercial.  What was it like being in a car full of Muppets &amp; their puppeteers?  Just how roomy is that Toyota? Hey mr. Terry Crews, did you really play those instruments in the Old Spice commercial? 
POWEEEEER!!! Maybe I'll have to start ordering dog food, so my dog associates the mailman with delicious treats. This might either make it love mailmen, or make it go even crazier. Relevant: https://launiusr.wordpress.com/2012/02/08/why-explore-space-a-1970-letter-to-a-nun-in-africa/ Hello Bill Gates, i need money to learn programming. 
Can you help me? 
I am from Romania, we have a new school that teaches you java, 3 months every day 8 hours a day and i need money to do it. Can you help me? thank you 
Bogdan    b.zorila@yahoo.com I too have hair that is migrating south I like this idea. I wish I had more people like you on my run! The question on everyone's mind: did you draw the cartoons/sketches on B99?  People like me don't leave the house, this is why we love mailmen so much ;) Damn Terry, you are really smart and really funny. UK postal worker here. 

Do you guys have union representatives?  With the side effect of people living longer. It seems we've found common ground. Ive read several good stuff here. Certainly worth bookmarking for revisiting. I surprise how much effort you put to make one of these fantastic informative site http://www.essay-profy.com/


 So, if Win 10 is free for 1 year for Win 7, 8 and 8.1 users, with what are gonna make your profit/how are gonna make up for the development costs of Win 10? As an Englishman I didn't really know who Terry Crews was, and TIL I'm in love with him. You'd make an astoundingly perfect Cyborg. Customers that are always home are my favourite. I never need to worry about whether you'll be there for the package or not. We generally have one union rep per Delivery Centre. Union membership is not compulsory and I'm not personally a part of it. Math student! I feel you there.  extraterrestrial intervention sure allows a lot of species to go extinct and sure looks a lot like vanilla natural selection would.. So I think we can all agree Terry would most definately fight a horse sized duck.  [Ask and ye shall receive.](http://i.imgur.com/4JpEy1j.jpg)

^^^^ForAllYourPSNeeds How much does Terry love yogurt? Oh hell yeah, did you see that guys? I'm the mailman's favorite!! Do you enjoy cartoons?

 Terry Crews made you the best woman you can be? Well said. This is a topic that's been getting a lot of attention on reddit lately, &amp; it seems to be getting more difficult to explain to people *why* exactly us men aren't being oppressed. Some really believe that it's true, completely ignoring all of the prejudices that women have to deal with on a daily basis. This thinking that feminism is some unstoppable force meant to control men is ridiculous, &amp; how one could manage it in such a macho centric society is beyond me. *My first paycheck was $50. I still have $5 of those dollars.* Julius (paraphrasing).  Hi there, your topic is not suitable for /r/IAmA. [Here's our rules on what are and aren't acceptable topics](http://www.reddit.com/r/IAmA/wiki/index#wiki_8._what_topics_are_and_are_not_allowed.3F). Feel free to post this over in /r/CasualIAmA, thanks.

*[I am a bot](/r/AutoModerator/comments/q11pu/what_is_automoderator/), and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2FIAmA) if you have any questions or concerns.* What is the secret herb you use in your recipe? Terry I'm a huge fan of you and your muscles! Have you ever seen the video on YouTube called Super Spice Bros and what dyou think of it? You are the coolest fucking person on the planet.  You and Andrew W.K. are my favorite living people.   Dam I missed it by a big margin. Was going to ask if you had any job available for me? I could like clean up the office or something. Man, I would love this to happen. :D
 [I needed the visual again!](http://www.bet.com/content/dam/betcom/images/2011/072811-celeb-black-presidents-terry-crews-idiocracy.jpg.custom1200x675x20.dimg) Hey terry, what do you think of [super spice bros?] (https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6Ajhzlq42f0) Are you giving your legs enough time to recuperate? If you keep working the muscles while they are healing, it'll destroy your gains. If you had to assemble a crew of superheroes (The Terry Crew)  that you lead who'd be in it, and what powers would you have?  Probably all of them. Even my 86 year old grandma buys the shit for my grandpa Hello mister Crews. thank you for doing this AMA, i would just like to know, when you were filming the expendables, did the cast often talk about other action movies give tips etc? can you give an example Looks like it will forever be a mystery... **PLEASE READ THIS MESSAGE IN ITS ENTIRETY BEFORE TAKING ACTION. ALL AMAs REQUIRE PROOF**

[Please review our guidelines on what is acceptable as proof.](http://www.reddit.com/r/IAmA/wiki/index#wiki_3._what_constitutes_.22proof.22.3F)

If you intend to submit public proof, please edit a link to your proof into your current post and [message the moderators by clicking here](http://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2FIAmA&amp;subject=Post%20Review%20Request&amp;message=I%20have%20added%20proof%20to%20my%20post,%20please%20review%3a%0d%0a%0d%0ahttp://www.reddit.com/r/IAmA/comments/2u6t5p/iama_blank_ama/). This must be proof a reasonable person believes verifies your claims. The mods **strongly** encourage you to provide public proof.

If you absolutely cannot provide public proof, you can work with the moderation team to confidentially verify proof of your topic or subject. *Remember: Mod verification requires unequivocal proof*. [To submit confidential proof, please click here](https://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2FIAmA&amp;subject=Need+Confidential+Verification&amp;message=My+AMA+needs+to+remain+confidential.%0d%0a%0d%0aMy+proof%3a%0d%0a%0d%0a%3Cinsert+proof+for+verification+here%3E)

       
If you believe you have received this message in error or have another question - [please message the mods by clicking here.](http://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2FIAmA)


*[I am a bot](/r/AutoModerator/comments/q11pu/what_is_automoderator/), and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2FIAmA) if you have any questions or concerns.* Rob Schneider de derp de derp derp I was the +1 for my brother, he won over 20k! The episode just aired last week! I was my brothers +1, it was incredibly nerve wracking for me and 1000x more for him, but the people who work on the show are fantastic at getting you out of your head and making sure you enjoy it! If you were to live the full life of one of the characters you have played, who would you choose? P-P-P-P-P-P-P-POWER! You wouldn't make a very good villian I like Kevin James :(  yes That's not only you. When I moved to the US, I bought an Old Spice deodorant, just because "OMG that's Old Spice, the thing with these crazy ads!!!!"

Now I mostly buy Old Spice cause I like the smell. But I wouldn't have tried if it wasn't for those crazy ads! wank That's great. Good luck with your initiative :) You HEAR that Andy?!....you ..
selfless guy you. So without the hardware locks we can download anything? Is this something like jail breaking the iPhone so you can download anything?  The original (good version) was.  It's a brilliant film, watch it!  There's no bees in it, sadly. &gt;  emotionally intense enema

Aren't they all? I, too, enjoy the occasional Kevin James movie. :P The Drunk History:

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=e2vfxXFqMUc i only used old spice for many years because of those ads is dish coming to italy? So you work on and off for 36 hours with sleep in-between, and then your off for about 36 hours?

Just trying to understand the timing. Also, how long is your trip back from B-&gt;A ?

Thank you for doing this awesome AMA. You have my dream job growing up. Can confirm. Rode the Axe bandwagon through high school til I was about 21 when these new Old Spice scents started coming out. Man, I tell you what, I started drowning in pussy. I have around 5 or 6 different scents, in both body spray, and deodorant on my dresser, 2 body washes, and 2 shampoo + conditioners in my shower. Absolutely. Every episode I've watched I can sense that the partnerships do not feel forced and that's what makes watching it all the more enjoyable. It's refreshing to find a programme like B99 that really is funny every episode. Mr Gates, what do you think of eSports? 
Do you think its just gonna be another sports/games or something that is going to be as big as Super bowl or Football? The sexes are exactly the same? sorry i can't find it but i read it somewhere on /r/marvel  Well that's a bummer. Thanks for the response though!  A little single serve thing of yogurt is 9g of protein. So 20+ yogurts a day. But that's not enough calories so probably only a few for in between snacks FOO


WHERE CRAIG AT ? 


Hoochie mama.  How you get so buff, bruh? When you get out of prison, an what you do?  1 Rep Max for 405 three times, is 429lbs. Is the reason your hours have been cut because of government regulations like Obama care?
 I know I'm late, but I couldn't help but think of this....  
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TJc7toiyPW8 The one that was set in the 60's/70's? I think I've watched some of that! Doesn't the guy go into a pub or something and everyones a bit creepy? Thanks! I'm really excited about it - it's the most enjoyable position I've ever held! Your post has been removed because it does not contain 5 questions which are relevant to the person requested. Please resubmit the request after you have read our [Request Guidelines](http://www.reddit.com/r/IAmA/wiki/index#wiki_10._how_do_i_submit_a_request.3F). Thanks!

*[I am a bot](/r/AutoModerator/comments/q11pu/what_is_automoderator/), and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2FIAmA) if you have any questions or concerns.* [Terry in a car always cracks me up!](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LE5MS851U3E) Wow really? Not american here so I might have missed that ... got any source? I'm not in the same position as you, so chances are slim that I could spend the majority of my time creating and actually be able to pay the bills. I'm still going to follow that advice in my spare time.

 Someone fetch us a fainting couch. **PLEASE READ THIS MESSAGE IN ITS ENTIRETY BEFORE TAKING ACTION. ALL AMAs REQUIRE PROOF**

[Please review our guidelines on what is acceptable as proof.](http://www.reddit.com/r/IAmA/wiki/index#wiki_3._what_constitutes_.22proof.22.3F)

If you intend to submit public proof, please edit a link to your proof into your current post and [message the moderators by clicking here](http://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2FIAmA&amp;subject=Post%20Review%20Request&amp;message=I%20have%20added%20proof%20to%20my%20post,%20please%20review%3a%0d%0a%0d%0ahttp://www.reddit.com/r/IAmA/comments/2u6xjh/bill_gates/). This must be proof a reasonable person believes verifies your claims. The mods **strongly** encourage you to provide public proof.

If you absolutely cannot provide public proof, you can work with the moderation team to confidentially verify proof of your topic or subject. *Remember: Mod verification requires unequivocal proof*. [To submit confidential proof, please click here](https://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2FIAmA&amp;subject=Need+Confidential+Verification&amp;message=My+AMA+needs+to+remain+confidential.%0d%0a%0d%0aMy+proof%3a%0d%0a%0d%0a%3Cinsert+proof+for+verification+here%3E)

       
If you believe you have received this message in error or have another question - [please message the mods by clicking here.](http://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2FIAmA)


*[I am a bot](/r/AutoModerator/comments/q11pu/what_is_automoderator/), and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2FIAmA) if you have any questions or concerns.* Can I became a billionare? Thanks for the reply! Been listening to the new album this morning. Perfect for Friday... I'm ready to go wild this weekend, with this as the theme tune. Little Terry loves his pickles though Poop is necessary. What is one good daily exercise that anyone can do to stay in shape, regardless of income or no access to a gym?  They're what plants crave! What soda has your "Terry Crews" stamp of approval for the manliest soda? If you could reach out to Josh Gordon what would you tell him? Given that you've come from a tough background and learned many life lessons. 

https://medium.com/the-cauldron/an-open-letter-to-charles-barkley-co-cb5c4e64cf3

Edit: paste link What safeguards do you take to ensure that you are not exploiting your clients? How can so much awesome be contained in a single man? Is this real life? It is hard because "humane" meat is a myth.

Even the pricey stuff at whole foods isn't humane... it's marketing hype.   Um, OK.  It isn't all about you though.  Have some empathy. I've been looking up and reading/watching/listening to a lot of your stuff in the past few days (I'm sorry if that sounds kind of weird), and mentions of a bad breakup with a girl you knew've cropped up a few times. Is this the same girl you interviewed in the Anecdotal Evidence Podcast?

PS: You inspire me. I'm gonna be (500 miles) Sure, I'm seeing her today. I'll ask her if she's willing to sit with me and do this AMA.  Hmm...audio engineering always seemed like an interesting idea.   I may have to check into thism If anything that's Diaz. Wow I'm totally amazed that you are on reddit (and so active on it!), Bill Gates! This definitely makes me want to hear more about what you have to say.  Including the kind of maple syrup you were give :P  

Anyway, a lot of [articles](
http://justalittlesailboat.blogspot.com/2015/01/how-to-prepare-your-kid-for-2030.html) have surfaced in response to your AMA.  As a stay at home mum, I want to know what the future holds for my baby and how he could contribute to helping those issues you identified??  

I would love it if he grew up to have a passion to work in developing countries, whether through education or medicine or health or something else.   But what skills and things should he focus on to prepare him for that, if he does want to?? 



 It's a pricky situation. Put that on a Cease and Desist! Man, I'm sorry you can't sketch people in the mall anymore, but the idea of the most ripped guy in existence watching me as I walked by terrifies me.  I think if we met eyes while I went by I'd go to full sprint right away. Holy shit.  I legit thought  that egg freeIng was some sort od weird portlandy food thing.   But now I get it. They did. And F1 has added in restriction after rule after restriction after rule. And now its nowhere near as good as it was and is suffering a worldwide decline in audience. It was incredibly popular back in the late 90's and early 2000's, but it's lost traction over time because it's become more and more tame. 

I mean don't get me wrong, it's still dangerous, but restricting the engine size for example, and constantly making the cars less powerful along with making illegal some of the more daring tactics makes it less fun to watch.
 DirecTV? A simple, "I don't know why your phone needs to be unlocked" would suffice. Items are moved to clearance if they are being discontinued (by Walgreens or by the manufacturer) or if the management feels they aren't selling well. It's not really possible to know when that will happen, unfortunately. I sure hope your "principles" here pay off.

Losing a job is like a breakup in that 99% of cases, when it's all boiled down, are covered by "it just wasn't working", which is essentially no-fault. That pay you said no to is simply a way to keep it on that level and soothe some of the near-term bitterness on your end since they initiated the "breakup" (trust me, in 10 years, none of this will matter), and you *denied* that? I'm chuckling over here, you poor nave man. Idealism gone awry, in fact. But wait, I get it, you can't be bought, because *you will have your say and not be muzzled!* Well, congratulations, now everyone knows that 1) you don't know when to keep your mouth shut, 2) you are not motivated by financial rewards AND 3) you have no work ethic. That's pretty much a shitty combination of things to be known for, FYI.

(You **know**... you could have just vented anonymously at any one of a number of corporate-life-venting sites...) hi, Mr. Gates. my question is: how can an odinary person become Successful? what is necessary for this? Does writing "DO NOT BEND" on envelopes really do anything? Hey Terry, how do you like pomegranates? I quite like them, this kind [especially](http://imgur.com/9gnYmYX). Mr Crews

I was unaware that you hosted 'Who wants to be a millionaire?' and having only watched the boring British version, I want to thank you whole heartedly for what you have done.

Have you ever watched the British version? Was it the reason you made the Americcan one so exciting? Was the video where you made music with your muscles real? Can you really get arrested for using such a device. How do they find out? That's the one!  It stars Edward Woodward and Christopher Lee.  It's a great atmospheric piece and is definitely worth a watch! The recent show about the weekend away at the beach house was a perfect example.  If you don't have chemistry and aren't friends off the set, there's no way you can fake a house "party" like that.  I met Amon Amarth at the House of Blues in Anaheim in 2004/5(?). After their set they were just hanging out near the bar. They weren't as big then as they are now so they weren't attracting too much attention. I went up to them, and being socially awkward and starstruck I said, "hey you guys are Amon Amarth... you guys are awesome..." To which they replied with a humble smile, nod, thanks. I then asked, "So, have you been writing any new songs lately?" Stupid question to ask because they had just released a new album. Johan says, "no not really" and reminds me of just that. I ashamedly say, "Oh ya! I love that album... It's really good!" (I really did love it) and then we all just look at the floor awkwardly for a bit when the guitarist happens to find a guitar pick in his pockets during the silence and offers it to me. I accepted it excitedly, thanked them and walked away embarrassed. To this day that is my best encounter with any kind of celebrity. 

All-in-all they are really nice guys. If I were old enough at the time I would have bought them beers.

Edit: I guess it was 2006 because I think they had just released With Oden on Our Side. Also grammar and spelling. Cob Live in Stockholm album is pretty solid for a live recording. I hear you in your vocals and keyboard though. Needled 24/7 is a heart pumping song to be in a mosh pit to. What sort of things do you(Or your coworkers) do to have fun or pass the time while on the clock? 

 **PLEASE READ THIS MESSAGE IN ITS ENTIRETY BEFORE TAKING ACTION. ALL AMAs REQUIRE PROOF**

[Please review our guidelines on what is acceptable as proof.](http://www.reddit.com/r/IAmA/wiki/index#wiki_3._what_constitutes_.22proof.22.3F)

If you intend to submit public proof, please edit a link to your proof into your current post and [message the moderators by clicking here](http://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2FIAmA&amp;subject=Post%20Review%20Request&amp;message=I%20have%20added%20proof%20to%20my%20post,%20please%20review%3a%0d%0a%0d%0ahttp://www.reddit.com/r/IAmA/comments/2u700o/hello_bill_thanks_for_all_the_nice_things_youve/). This must be proof a reasonable person believes verifies your claims. The mods **strongly** encourage you to provide public proof.

If you absolutely cannot provide public proof, you can work with the moderation team to confidentially verify proof of your topic or subject. *Remember: Mod verification requires unequivocal proof*. [To submit confidential proof, please click here](https://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2FIAmA&amp;subject=Need+Confidential+Verification&amp;message=My+AMA+needs+to+remain+confidential.%0d%0a%0d%0aMy+proof%3a%0d%0a%0d%0a%3Cinsert+proof+for+verification+here%3E)

       
If you believe you have received this message in error or have another question - [please message the mods by clicking here.](http://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2FIAmA)


*[I am a bot](/r/AutoModerator/comments/q11pu/what_is_automoderator/), and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2FIAmA) if you have any questions or concerns.* A little while ago on /r/metal, they were saying that despite their image, AA doesn't like to be called "viking" 
http://www.reddit.com/r/Metal/comments/2o9vdw/amon_amarth_dont_call_us_viking_metal Community, can't tell you the episode but the study group suddenly hates Jeff for putting down the Bare Naked Ladies (BNL)  **PLEASE READ THIS MESSAGE IN ITS ENTIRETY BEFORE TAKING ACTION. ALL AMAs REQUIRE PROOF**

[Please review our guidelines on what is acceptable as proof.](http://www.reddit.com/r/IAmA/wiki/index#wiki_3._what_constitutes_.22proof.22.3F)

If you intend to submit public proof, please edit a link to your proof into your current post and [message the moderators by clicking here](http://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2FIAmA&amp;subject=Post%20Review%20Request&amp;message=I%20have%20added%20proof%20to%20my%20post,%20please%20review%3a%0d%0a%0d%0ahttp://www.reddit.com/r/IAmA/comments/2u70h4/gbu_mrbill_gates/). This must be proof a reasonable person believes verifies your claims. The mods **strongly** encourage you to provide public proof.

If you absolutely cannot provide public proof, you can work with the moderation team to confidentially verify proof of your topic or subject. *Remember: Mod verification requires unequivocal proof*. [To submit confidential proof, please click here](https://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2FIAmA&amp;subject=Need+Confidential+Verification&amp;message=My+AMA+needs+to+remain+confidential.%0d%0a%0d%0aMy+proof%3a%0d%0a%0d%0a%3Cinsert+proof+for+verification+here%3E)

       
If you believe you have received this message in error or have another question - [please message the mods by clicking here.](http://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2FIAmA)


*[I am a bot](/r/AutoModerator/comments/q11pu/what_is_automoderator/), and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2FIAmA) if you have any questions or concerns.* Hello Sir, I admire you a lot. I'm doing Computer Science Engineering from India. I wanna do something great like you do/did. Can you give me some advice? Please &gt;First of all, as a card-carrying feminist, I am a BIG feminist,

Fuck off you man hating piece of shit! Maybe instead of focusing on drunk history you should read real history. The white women who became the first feminsts were some of the most racist assholes in history. Feminism has a long history of oppressing black people. You're a fucking pandering dope if you support those racist fuckers! I saw him at Creamfields a couple years back and he played pretty mainstream stuff for the time I was there. Definitely a presence on stage and on the mic though Did you delete this post You guys should hang out with the lady that comes out of the bowling ball return in that one spot. Mr Crews. I understand you are a busy and popular man, however you'll surely see this is a question of significant importance and urgency. I made some homemade barbecue sauce, but it still tastes a little bland. What seasonings would you recommend I add? Have you heard of or worked with A Jew and a Black Guy? Noooo! It's not severance we (I work here too...for now) get working notice, effective 2 weeks ago. Which is prime for you HQ folk who have gone home but for us at the store it was a huge hit to learn our "severance package" was a miscommunication in the media and we are really only just getting paid till May even if we work or not. It's not severance, i wish people you understand and stop telling me theyve treated us right because they havent. Nope. I said haven't seen any other redditor post about it. I guess you missed the part where I actually have a career in this. Sorry we didn't get to this! I didn't want him to miss his flight. I'm sure he'll be back, though. He was one of the most positive people I've ever done an AMA with.

If he, Keanu Reeves, Jeff Bridges and Weird Al formed a positivity super-squad... who knows what could happen?

^Let's^add^Jeff^Goldblun^in^there^too.^And^Guillermo^del^Toro... Awesome! I am actually working on the capstone project for my MBA and we are working alongside of a company that is creating a product that can fit into vacuum tube sockets and create authentic sound due to a proprietary technology they have developed.

Do you have experience with amps and vacuum tubes and would you mind if I picked your brain on the topic sometime? I see. I'd recommend to try St.Petersburg or Moscow cities. Head offices, especially Moscow ones, are often bilingual, so you can have a try!
Good luck! I can see it now, the Three Amigos Part Dos. Crews, Campbell and Mustafa. Do you get Amon Amarth's songs confused since they all sound the same? The whole racism thing is why feminism is expressed as coming in "waves".

You should look up 3rd wave feminism and ask yourself if that's the same stuff the suffragettes wanted. This post stands along as a /r/bestof, even separate from the IAmA.  Especially the second point -- that holds true for many things, not just sports (military service is another huge one where untreated post-deployment depression and PTSD have lead to huge spikes in suicide).  This is worth everyone reading, and re-reading ... along with the previous answer about treating the gym like a spa.  Seriously, Terry, you're gold!

p.s. Keep up the great work on B99!  Loved the Ugg boots &amp; fanny pack in the Hot Tub episode! :D I'm living in Shanghai.   We saw, don't worry. That's the problem with the generalized sort of AI we are discussing, they can "program" themselves to do what ever is optimal to solve the problem. Is it very annoying to you that the brazilian fans keep posting "pai do Chris" (Chris's dad) in every post in your Facebook page? Late but I came from the "scariest moment on reddit" thread currently on the front of askreddit.

&gt; How did he manage to convince the detective he was just a nice guy? I mean, after so many reports, it amazes me he can still convince the detective he was "harmless".  

The same way Elliott Rodger convinced police he was "kind and wonderful" just days before he went on his murderous rampage.  He was so "convincing" (aka he didn't fit the exaggerated stereotype we use to define "psychotic") that they didn't even both searching his house, where they would've found his weapons. 

There's also [this fantastic article](http://whiteribbonblog.com/2014/04/17/the-danger-of-the-monster-myth/) from a man whose wife was raped and killed a few years ago.  He delves into the dismissive ways in which we treat violence/psychotic behaviour, particularly toward women, and how sexism and stereotyping plays into it all.  He wrote the article after facing his wife's rapist for the first time in court and being shocked at how "normal" the man was.  Let me just say that Terry Crews has the BEST AMA's.  You can tell he really does love people and getting to know them.

 Still not in the schedule and apparently Victoria from reddit needs to contact her but can't. Will this still be going ahead? Terry, you are a goddamn hero.  I keep reading your responses to these questions and keep nodding my head, agreeing mentally, and thinking "I wish I were half the man this guy is, and I sure hope my kids grow up to be like him."  I mean, first the kind words about Andy, then your response about depression in pro sports, then "gym as a spa", followed by your proud feminism.  You're the freaking man, Terry -- keep up the great work, and please continue using your celebrity as a soapbox to get the word out about things that are actually important in life. I thought it was hiphopanonymous. Mr. Crews you are SO MUSCULAR. Any tips for someone who is ~280 lbs and tired of having fat man tits to get into shape and look as swole as you? Like I'm not gay but damn your abs are SOLID dude Could the blockchain also be used for a robust decentralised voting system? empathy for a chicken? No. The so called waves are just mutations of the same parasitic virus. 3rd wave parasite is just less honest about its racism.  At my first job back inna day, Terry Crews stopped by the office one day (I didn't say this on the phone call, but it's true) and I was like *OH MY GOD, the President is here.* He's very cool. And Andrew W.K. can get the party goin. Wow. Just saying as another skinny guy, but one who only had to gain half that much weight: that's a pretty badass amount of weight gain.  
I'm always sort of halfassed the diet other than just eating healthily and eating often enough, so unfortunately I got nothing for ya there hahah, but wow again. This will be available as a Netflix original.  For better or worse. wrong guy.  OMG you're totally right. Andrew W.K. is an ascended being of positivity too! Yes, I'd definitely say that bitcoin has intrinsic value too. In addition to it's scarcity, and the computational effort needed to do the calculations to mine more, there is also value in its payment system due to its independent and somewhat bespoke existence outside of the main global financial system. Which is funny because the 3rd wave cropped up as a way to adress the racism and sex-phobia in previous waves of feminism. Seriously, maybe do some research before you claim that anyone subscribing to an ideology is also unconditionally racist? BUILDING KICK! Maybe I just go to the wrong gym, but I hate that nobody respects the equipment or other people. The weights never get racked. People will take the 1 squat rack and not do anything that requires a squat rack. People will sit on the bench press to do curls, when there are 10 other seats for that. Then, you get these loud mother fuckers who grunt when the lift and throw the weights when they are done. You get people who sweat all over everything and never wipe it down. 

Honestly, for me the whole thing just sucks.  When B99 first started advertising, I was worried that it would ruin my opinion of all these people I liked. Instead, I have a greater appreciation of the people I knew about and have been introduced to wonderful new talent, like Chelsea Peretti. Great show. Keep it up!  U.S. President Dwayne Elizondo Mountain Dew Herbert Camacho it is an onor and a privlig.  I  usually try not to fall prey to marketing schemes, but when they're this good, thru deserve my business What's your favorite character to play in movies/TV Shows/Skits?
 
Bad guy, comic relief, hero... Etc. Huge discount. As long as it is not big buckets of chicken I get food for free.  Please god, let Terry do a remake of Blazing Saddles with Adam Sandler. Did you work at the Amon Amarth / Sabaton show in Upstate Concert Hall in Clifton Park, NY? I was next to the sound board the whole show and the engineer was going nuts because he couldn't get Amon Amarth to sound right (Upstate Concert Hall has terrible acoustics). It would be a funny coincidence if that was you and we were standing next to each other at that show! I've heard that you get amazing death insurance where you could be covered upto a few millions if you die on the job.
Have you thought about being assassinated and putting me down and a beneficiary? Has any of the main cast died? No sir! That was the front of house engineer. I don't really pay attention to their songs, I just tech. Jlowe is the man! I have to admit, I started buying Old Spice because of those commercials you and Isaiah did. Amazing marketing strategy! Yeah, I don't think so. I'll bet he's eating more protein than that. Hey Terry! Big fan! I was wondering if you do you have any involvement with any charity foundation? I like your energy on the movie and silver screen and find it infectious and it would be nice if you were to spread that to people who are down in the dumps :) Sorry...must be terrible I think big metal releases (Amon Amarth, Slayer, etc) aren't engineered any worse, but differently. I wish I could elaborate more but I'd be doing a wrong because I'm not really a studio guy. Terry loves women and yogurt equally. Hello Maisie, has there been a scene so far in Game of Thrones that was particularly difficult?  Hi Maisie, thanks for doing this AMA. What's been the biggest change in your life since starting Game of Thrones? Also, which cast member is most like their character on the show? Dear Ms. Williams, 
Would you be willing to share your thoughts on Arya's mental state after all of her hardship? Many fans think she's turning into an (adorable) psychopath, while others believe she's handling events rather well! Do you have an opinion on this, and does it influence your portrayal of Arya? 
Thank you!  Hi Maisie!

Do you have any favourite video games? A while back I saw you were a fan of Hat Films!

Absolutely loved Cyberbully and really looking forward to seeing The Falling. Hi Maisie, thanks so much for doing this AMA! I just wanted to first say that I've been rooting
for your character in Game of Thrones since the very first episode. You are a great actress and only get 

stronger and stronger as the show goes on.

I have two pretty simple questions for you, both GoT related, and they are: Can you tell us any funny 

stories of things that have happened on set or during filming? Also, which cast members do you look up to 

the most?

I've read the books and can't wait to see how your story plays out on screen.

Thanks again for doing this, *Valar Morghulis!* Hello Maisie! Just a dude who enjoys Arya (and the hound, rip :'( ) scenes on GoT from Tbilisi Georgia here, congrats on early career success, it's an inspiration for everyone who wants to get into acting but has no experience! Although I love GoT, I wanted to ask about something else, will you be playing Ellie in the upcoming movie adaptation of The Last of Us? I think you could pull it off pretty well. Thanks for giving this a shot and have a nice day! Hi Maisie! Huge fan.  I have three quetions... 

First, what was your favourite scene to film in Game of Thrones?
Second, do you have any new projects coming up in the near future?
Third, not really a question, but you should definitely come to Australia some time soon! Which scene from Game of Thrones did you enjoy acting in the most? I don't usually post on AMA's, but you're awesome. Keep being awesome.  What's your favorite scene you've done in game of thrones? Hi Maisie! Thanks for doing this! Watching you and Rory McCain play my favorite duo on the show has been a dream come true for me. I would go so far as to say you guys did it even better than I pictured in the books, so thanks for being so awesome! I have a couple questions (feel free to ignore if these have been asked already)...

1) If you could trade roles with anyone (male or female) on Game of Thrones, who would you want to play and why?

2) Who would YOU want to sit the Iron Throne?

3) If you could have any superpower, what would you pick and why?

4) If you could have a career other than acting, what would you pick?

5) What's your favorite colour?

Thanks again! You are such a fantastic performer to watch, and I really look forward to seeing what else you do in the future =D What do we say to an Arya Stark AMA? Not today. ^^I'm ^^so ^^sorry.

There are some big changes coming up for Arya, with no longer running around Westeros and now chilling in Braavos. What are you most looking forward to in this new season for your character?

Also, your character is kind of the last man standing for your family. Is it hard, no longer having those actors on set? Do you guys keep in touch?

Thanks so much for this IAma! You are my favorite actress on the show, I think you are just phenomenal :) Maisie you're awesome!!!
http://imgur.com/QViv8Xd Hi Maisie, thanks for doing this. Arya was always one of the most interesting characters in the books,  but your incredible portrayal of her has solidified her as my absolute favorite character in the series. 

Question time: There has been a lot of speculation in the community... Is there any validity to the rumors that you will be taking the role of Ellie in the upcoming The Last Of Us film? What can you tell us about the last of us movie and your involvement? So Maisie, when did you get your first kill? What are your biggest struggles while on the set of the show Game of Thrones? Hey Maisie, I'll ask what everyone on /r/thelastofus has been talking about.

**Will you play Ellie in The Last of Us Movie?**

Did you do a table read of the script?

Do you *want* to play Ellie?

Thanks! Hey Maisie! Greetings from California at around 6 am. I stayed up all night to make sure I could get a couple questions in. I love how you portray Arya Stark, you're amazing! I love your vines as well they're pretty funny! Now onto business:

What would you like to move on to after Game of Thrones? 

How great is Sophie Turner in real life?

How was it like not fainting around Pedro Pascal?

Now the obligatory reddit question:

Would you rather fight one Hound sized duck or a 100 duck sized Hounds?
 Hi Maisie! Im a big fan of yours! I have only one question: If you could eat only one food for the rest of your life, what pizza topping would you choose? Hey Maisie. Love your performance as Arya, GoT is hands down my favourite show on the air, and the amazing cast is to thank for that! 


My question is, how has the experience of portraying the character development of Arya been like, do you feel any similarities or differences between you and her? ...and also, do you ever look at chickens the same way anymore? 

 Hi Maisie, big fan.

In the event of a "cheeky Nandos" what spice do you have on your chicken?

Cheers and have a nice day! If you were a pizza, what kind of toppings would you have? How has becoming a celebrity changed your social life/how you interact with people?


Does meeting new people, who know you from GoT, get awkward at times? ^^^^^(18/m/UK)
 I don't really have a question to ask...but I do have a story to tell (I hope that isn't against the rules or anything!)

Well, here goes:

Sophomore year of high school, my best friend Adam (we'd been really close since 5th grade) was diagnosed with late stage leukemia. Due to the severity of his illness, they started chemo almost immediately. As his best friend, I wanted to be by his side throughout. So I would go with him to his treatments and try and keep him in good spirits...which got progressively harder as time went on. (I feel like this isnt something they show in the movies that often...he grew increasingly lethargic after every treatment. It was only during the off weeks that he really started to gain his energy back.)

Now, this all happened around the time when *A Feast For Crows* was released. So, in an attempt to bring some excitement to this dreadful situation, I decided to bring a book and read to him during his treatments. Over the course of a few months, we read all four Game of Thrones books, and we'd discuss so much about the story when we were done. 

Adam's absolute favorite character was Arya. Maybe my memories have become sensationalized in the past 10 years, but every time we got to an Arya chapter he seemed to gain a bunch of energy and perk up. Our discussions always seemed to come back around to Arya and how complex the character is and how hard everything she's going through must be (I think he kind of identified with her on some levels there.) 

Adam passed away 14 months later. He never got to see the show. He'll never get to know how the story ends. But I think the biggest injustice of all is that he won't get to see you bring his favorite character to life. He won't get to appreciate the nuiance that you bring to the character.

Watching the show has been really hard for me, but it's also helped me relive those days at the hospital spending time with Adam and bonding over a beautiful series. 

Thank you for doing justice to such a great literary character. Wherever he is, I'm sure Adam would say the same thing.
 Maisie,
First of all, let me just say that Arya is by far my favorite character in both the show and the books, and you were such a stellar choice for the role.
Now for my question- as a lover of all thing cheese, what is your favorite cheese?
Thanks for doing this AMA! First off, thank you Aidan. Second, who on set is most like their on screen character, and who is the least like theirs? Terry, please have someone make a mix of just all of your scenes from the latest season of Brooklyn Nine-Nine, sequentially.  I think your parts are hilarious, and I would watch just the Terry show. Hi Maisie!  Thanks for doing this AMA!  I've got one question for you. Have you ever snuck something off of or onto the set of Game of Thrones? Hello, Maisie, big fan! Arya is my favorite character in both the books and the television series and you play her perfectly. Anyway, on to the questions. 

* Is there a member of the Game of Thrones cast that you haven't yet had a scene with that you would like to?

* Any new upcoming non-GoT related projects you have coming up that you wish to tell us about?

Thanks for doing this AMA, can't wait for season 5! Valar Morghulis.  Do you like crunchy peanut butter or smooth? How do you like Northern Ireland as a place to film/the country in general? Game of Thrones has brought a lot more tourism over here so people can see its not the worst place haha 

PS Your performance in Cyberbully was amazing 
 Hi Maisie. If you could play any character from the asoiaf universe, who would it be and why?  Hey Maisie obviously you're great and I love you! I have few questions! 

1: Without spoiling anything are you excited about where your character in Game of Thrones is going and, has the show become more fun? 

2: What's your Favorite Cereal and Band? 

3: What do you have in your pockets right now?  Hi Maisie, I recently watched cyberbully and it was fantastic, you were great in it and though I've never had a problem wiht cyberbullying I feel that it's really relevant. It's understandably a very difficult job, acting by yourself and keepin the audiences attention but what about it did you enjoy the most? Hello Maisie!
My question is, is there any program currently on television, besides Game of Thrones, where you've thought, "I would love a role on that show."?
Thanks for doing this AMA! Yay an AMA I didn't miss for once. Hi Maisie! Big fan :D
 
How does it feel to be the only actor on set with a secure contract? What TV shows do you secretly enjoy? Hey Maisie, thanks for doing this AMA! You're doing an outstanding job as Arya on GoT.  
I actually got to meet you a few years ago at Comic Con Tampa, thanks for the autograph!  
Questions: 
How would you personally like Arya's storyline to end?  
Have you gotten to keep anything from the set?  
PS: I hope to see you casted as Ellie for The Last of Us movie!   Hi Maisie! Nothing groundbreaking with this one, but what is your favorite movie? Who are you, child?
 Have you read the books? Had you heard of them before you got the role? You really have some amazing acting talent - there have been moments in GoT where you reminded me of Sean Bean, acting-style-wise (is that a word?). Do you pick up on little things that your fellow actors do? What sort of things do you learn from them? Hi Maisie, would you like to survive till the end of Got or would you like to have some awesome death scene?  

Welcome to reddit Maisie,
Couple of questions for you.

1: Who's your favourite GoT character excluding yourself?
And including yourself?

2: Did you ever expect GoT to get this big? Where did you expect it to go? 

stayed up until 2 am for this (damn australian times :'D), would do it again. Your an amazing actress. Have a good one. 
I'm going to bed. Valar Morghulis!
http://imgur.com/QViv8Xd Hey Maisie, there were a lot of rumours going around that you were interested for the role of Ellie in The Last of Us, can you give us any more information on that? Did you play the game?

Thanks! Since I'm sure many questions will be about your professional life, I wanted to take this opportunity to ask; What do you normally do for fun (alone, with friends, on dates, etc) ? Big fan and lots of love from Canada! Hey Maisie, could you tell us anything new about you possibly having the role of Ellie in The Last of Us movie? I've gotta say, as a fan of the game you're one of the few people I'd trust to play the character. (Arya Stark is also my favorite character on GoT, just so you know!)  What would your personal house sigil and house words be? Have you read the new Mercy chapter? How would you survive a zombie apocalypse? Hi My question is what are your plans once Game Of Thrones has finished ? , Also you Favorited one of my tweets once http://i.imgur.com/X9TSrxH.jpg https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1IRGenlpf-E How do you managae to work school/college around your acting? Also, what is your favourite subject? At what point did you realize that Game of Thrones was becoming a huge deal? Hi Maisie! If you were somehow elected as supreme queen of Westeros, what would be the first law you would pass as ruler? Hi Maisie! I love your work on the show so much!

One of my best friends in the world is moving across the country for a new job, and I was wondering if you could write a little message for her! Her name is Tess, and youre her favorite actress on the show! She absolutely adores you and your craft.  Could you wish her luck as she starts this new stage of her life? I think itd mean a lot to her (and me!)
 If you had to date a cast member, who would it be? Hi Maisie! Question, who would win in a fight: a grilled cheese sandwich or a taco?

^ps ^it's ^my ^birthday Hello Maisie! Just wanted to say thank you for doing this AMA! Here's my question.  
Do you ever get picked on because of your height?  
I'm a short person too and sometimes people use me as an arm rest. Do you have a boyfriend? Hi Maisie! What's a funny blooper/behind the scene moment that viewers of Game of Thrones never got to see?
Thanks so much for doing this AMA!!! Hi Maisie, how has it been to grow up as part of such a big production?
Also have you ever eaten a yorkie, and if so what happened? Favourite cartoon / show when younger? Terry, you are a goddamn hero. I keep reading your responses to these questions and keep nodding my head, agreeing mentally, and thinking "I wish I were half the man this guy is, and I sure hope my kids grow up to be like him." I mean, first the kind words about Andy, then your response about depression in pro sports, then "gym as a spa", followed by your proud feminism. You're the freaking man, Terry -- keep up the great work, and please continue using your celebrity as a soapbox to get the word out about things that are actually important in life.

If you had one piece of advice to give aspiring athletes (say, high school age), what would you tell them? Also, what do you think about the way the revenue aspect of revenue sports has changed college athletics over the past decade or so? What would you say is your favorite prank ever played on you or that you have been a part in?

Also, would you rather fight one Mountain sized Joffrey or one Joffrey sized Mountain? Question of questions, would you rather fight a Peter Dinklage sized horse, or a horse sized Peter Dinklage? You play Arya perfectly! 

What do you think about spoilers?  HI MAISIE. I'm missing lectures for this... oh well. If you weren't cast as Arya Stark what do you think you would be doing with your life right now? Hello Maisie. Big fan of Game of Thrones here and Arya Stark is one of my favourite characters. I've specially liked the way you have portrayed her over the last couple of seasons and found myself bursting out laughing when Arya cracked up at the Bloody Gate.  Ive got a couple of questions too!

1-	I seem to recall seeing you say on an interview that you havent (or at least hadnt at that point) read the books. Did you have any idea of how much a bad ass character Arya was destined to become when you first started portraying her?


2-	If you had to choose a favourite food, what would you choose, and why would it be bacon?
 If you don't know the words to a song, do you improvise? A few years ago, your crew paid my buddy and I $20 each to help move some gear into the practice space in St. Paul. That remains one of the coolest moments to me. Hi Maisie, absolutely love your work. So my questions are: 

What has been the most fun thing to film on Game of Thrones?

And what made you decide to do something like Cyberbully?  Who are you, girl? Funniest cast member on the Game Of Thrones? 

Btw, thanks for doing this :P Hello Maisie! Thank you for giving us show watchers the privilege of cheering for Arya just as much as the book readers have.

Arya is an impressionable young woman whose managed to score a lot of 1v1 time with some very powerful and effective people such as Ned, Syrio, Tywin, The Hound, and while less time with Jaqen he clearly had a large impact.  In these relationships Arya takes the role of apprentice to the master and learns quickly through the words, experiences, and actions of whom she is with.  These interactions very clearly have a significant impact on how Arya sees herself and which directions she chooses to take her life.

My question is do any of your relationships on the set of Game of Thrones with fellow actors mirror Arya's relationships in the level of impact on yourself as an actress and young woman?

On Fri, Jan 30, 2015 at 5:58 AM, Jason Dean &lt;kirushi@gmail.com&gt; wrote:
Hello Maisie, thank you for giving us show watchers the privilege of cheering for Arya just as much as the book readers have.

Arya is an impressionable young woman whose managed to score a lot of 1v1 time with some very powerful and effective people such as Ned, Syrio, Tywin, The Hound, and while less time with Jaqen he clearly had a large impact.  In these relationships Arya takes the role of apprentice to the master and learns quickly through the words, experiences, and actions of whom she is with.  These interactions very clearly have a significant impact on how Arya sees herself and which directions she chooses to take her life.

My question is do any of your relationships on the set of Game of Thrones with fellow actors mirror Arya's relationships in the level of impact on yourself as an actress and young woman?
 That's the color I chose for my winter coat!  :&gt; Who is the funniest person on set? Where do you see Arya at the end of the series? Do you think that ultimately, she will be a tragic character?

Did you and the Rory find the S04E01 scene (where you're both spying through a bush) as funny as we did?

If you could change one thing that has happened in the story so far, what would it be? 
 Tea or coffee?
 Hi Maisie! I've always wondered this: what is your favorite part of playing Arya Stark and being a part of the Game of Thrones cast? Thanks for your time and for being an incredible Arya!  Hey Maisie,
I'm a huge fan of your work as Arya Stark (Totally Nailed it btw) and I've been looking forward to watching the falling since I heard about it.

I've got a few questions I hope you can answer

+Have you got any more upcoming projects you can tell us about

+What's it like being part such a global phenomenon at a young age?

+In your whole acting career, who have you enjoyed working with the most?

+ Can you tell us about working with Rory Mccann, the scenes you had together were great, what was it like behind the scenes.

+What do you think will happen to Arya in the end? Do you think she'll get what she wants?

+I've heard a rumour that you may be playing Ellie in the last of us movie, confirmation?

Thanks for taking the time out to do this AMA, and *fingers crossed* answering these questions.
PS: thanks to Aiden There's actually a scene in the coming season... which was my most difficult scene to film. And I think fans are going to be really excited about it. More emotional than we've seen Arya in previous seasons. Hi Maisie, 

Is there a role that you've always dreamed of playing (besides Arya) in a movie or another TV show? Great work in Cyberbully, I saw it and you really keep the attention of the viewer all through, quite a feat for such a focused one-room movie! I'm curious what is your favorite music and your favorite movies or tv shows at the moment? Cheers Whats your soundcloud? Will you go to prom with me? Seconded Who is you're favourite actor/actress to work with and why is it Rory McCann? Hi Maisie. Here's a risky one for you; who is your favourite member of Hat Films? Hey Maisie, thanks for doing the AMA.

What actors/directors would you love to work with in the future and do you have any upcoming projects outside of Game of Thrones planned?  
Also what is your favourite food to snack on late at night? What book is on your nightstand? what is your favorite guilty pleasure movie? Hey, Maisie! As soon as I finish college I'd like to visit the UK. Is there anything I should do or experience over there that I wouldn't necessarily think of doing otherwise? Thanks! As a 20 year old male, it's ridiculous how big of a crush I have on you. By the way, your laugh is the greatest thing in the world.  If you were to be any other character from GoT who would you be? Hi Maisie. I'm the person who posted the [original AMA request](https://www.reddit.com/r/IAmA/comments/2t60v7/ama_request_maisie_williams_aka_arya_stark_in/) a few days ago. I'll ask you some of the question that i put on there: 

1. What is the strangest piece of fan art that somebody has given you?
2. What would be your dream role to play in any franchise?
3. What has helped you to mature the most as a young actress?
4. How would you best describe Arya's progression as a character from Season's 1-5?
5. Are you going to be playing Ellie in The Last of Us movie? This is the first time that Ive ever prepared for an AMA.
SORRY ITS SO LONG, IVE BEEN WAITING TO REACH OUT 2 U AND THIS IS THE PERFECT TIME 
Maisie, I am such a huge fan of yours. Game of Thrones is my all-time favorite TV show/book series and my dream, which is most likely impossible, is to be a part of its team somehow (I want to be in the film/tv industry after I finish college/uni). 

Arya Stark is a character that I can relate most to. The show itself makes me the happiest girl EVER and I cannot express how much I love it (and you!)

After a bunch of thought, I cant really come up with a question thats intriguing. Maybe just a few that youve already answered at some point in time but Im just freaking out if youre even gonna answer but anywhooooo
(you dont have to answer all of them  )

-Was accepting the role of Arya a difficult decision?

-Have you ever considered starting a Youtube channel? (I watched TheFineBros and Superfruit videos featuring you and I think itd be so cool if you had your own channel)

- Youve probably been asked this a bunch but why dont you go on Vine anymore? 

-If youre in LA again, can you consider a meetup or something? PLZ?!

-What is the strangest piece of fan art that somebody has given you?

-weirdest fan encounter?

-pet peeves?

Thats about itI just really hope you read this because you have made such a big difference and impact to my life.

You helped me realize that I can be weird and crazy and not let other peoples judgments take over my thoughts. Stay humble and weird girl :) xxx

-Allison 

(ps find me on twitter/insta if you want! Twitter: @allisonsk13 Insta: @allisonklemes)




 What do you say to the god of death Maisie Willams? Hi Maisie! i was wondering. how did you get into acting, and how did you proceed to get an agent? What's your go-to cure for a rotten, stinking cold? Being a Belfast native, I'd just like to ask what it's like filming here?  What is training industry
 Hi Maisie, what project outside of game of thrones are you most excited about? Arya Stark is one of my favorite characters, and you do a fantastic job bringing that character to life.  If you could play any other role on Game of Thrones what role would you most like to play? Hello, Maisie! Typical Reddit question: what is your favourite breakfast cereal? 
 Me and my brothers enjoy playing a computer game called "Amnesia" which is *really* scary! 

We haven't completed it yet, but we're close. Hey Maisie! If you could only eat one type of cheese for the rest of your life what type would it be and why? Other than Arya, if you could play any character in Game of Thrones regardless of all physical limitations, who would you choose?  Hey Maisie! Super excited for the next big chapter in Arya's journey, but I'm really gonna miss seeing you and Rory McCann along side each other. You two were so great together. 

So my question is, do you have any funny/cool stories on set with him? What was it like working with him the past 2 seasons? 

Can't wait for season 5! Maisie Williams will you be my date to Prom?
This is my first reddit post ever, in fact I only made this to ask this question. Maisie you are kind, caring, and funny. My junior prom is set to April 11th so I hope this provides enough time for you to think about it. It would be an honor to have you as my prom date.  Hodor hodor hodor?!? Hi Maisie,

What is it like to work with Sean bean and Tom Wlaschiha? Hi Maisie! I hear you're a dancer. What is your favorite type of dance and why?  Would you rather fight one horse-sized duck, or 100 duck-sized horses? Hi Maise! I'm a big fan and would like to thank you for doing this AMA, love you on GoT!

My question is regarding the 'The Last of Us' movie. How is it coming along? Any interesting stories? Have you played the game and if so, what are your thoughts on the movie adaptation? 

Thank you! Most 17 year olds by now have to finish school,go to uni then work allot and some might even end up dying of old age not becoming rich as you

You're 17 and already now have probably net worth of 5 million dollars.

How do you feel about this? Hi Maisie! Do you have any favourite songs at the moment and is there a place that you look for new music? Was it ever difficult to distinguish which end was the mysterious pointy end that Jons cryptic first lesson covered? It was in Orlando Florida, but I'm not sure the name of the program right now. I can find out though. Considering that GoT has been hugely popular for four years now and your portfolio now contains some well-received roles outside GoT, are most people like: "Oi! It's that girl, er, Marcy Williamson...", when they see you on the street OR do they still go: "Bloomin 'eck! It's Arya Stark!" ? Hello Maisie! 

You are by far my favorite actress to date, you make the role of Arya pop so much! You fit the role so damn well! One of my questions it if you could play any other character from any other book/movie, who would you be?

And my second one: Could you just say hello to ITN111A &amp; Mr. Symonds for me? I'm new to the school and would like them to know that i both appreciate them and love the class (Mr. Symonds is my favorite teacher as well) Thank you, we love you!!! Cats or Dogs? 

 Are you and Rory McCann really good friends still? I hope we have not seen the last of the Hound! Hi Maisie big fan from Sydney! (I stayed up for this :) I was wondering, when did you first know that your role in Game of Thrones was going to change your life forever, and what was it like suddenly having a huge fan base almost instantly? Who's been your favourite person to work with and why? who was your favorite character to play so far and why?

Also if you could play any character who would it be?

Ps you're awesome ;D thanks Which actor from the show would you put on the iron throne?

Also, did you have fun at the [Ed Sheeran concert](http://s3-ec.buzzfed.com/static/2014-06/29/14/enhanced/webdr09/anigif_enhanced-28532-1404068337-1.gif)? Do you read the books? Has George or anyone else given you information about Arya that has not been published yet? Hi Maisie just wanted to let you know you're all that and then some. Also are you thinking about coming to Canada in the near future? We'd love to have you.  Massie!!! Thank you for doing this AMA! Are you and other actors from GOT going to have a get together for the season premier?  Hi Maisie, who was your favorite actor/actress to work with and why? Hi Maisie, big fan. I've misplaced the USB receiver for my wireless headphones, I don't suppose you've seen them anywhere? Thanks for doing this AMA! I have a couple of questions.

1.) Who's the better dancer between Pedro Pascal and Jack Gleeson?

2.) Do David and Dan still prank the cast and if so what's the best one they've done recently? Who is your favourite actor in GOT?

http://imgur.com/QViv8Xd Is there any actors who you would love to work with? Hey Maisie! How do you feel about the way the show is going, &amp; its divergence from a lot of the plot from the books? Hey Maisie, if you could change one aspect of Arya's character on game of thrones what would it be? Hey Maisie,  
1)Whats your favourite thing to do when not filming?  
2) What was you favourite season of GoT to film so far?  
Keep up the good work! &lt;3 I keep on hearing that you'll be playing Ellie from the Last of Us. First, is it true and if so, what drew you to play the role? I guess the biggest question I'd like to know is if a who from the Game Of Thrones can biggest was past season? Hi Maisie, big fan. Last year two friends of mine helped me ask you out to the senior prom, and I got
 ignored.

What up with that Maisie. Let a gut down gently.

Guys I promise I'm not weird. Honestly. So how do you feel about the sudden rush of fame through your first ever big screen appearance? 

Also favorite sport team maybe Hockey?
 When you first started working on game of thrones did you think it would ever be this s
uccessful? Hi Maisie,
I saw a video of you trying the Nintendo for the first time, in general, did you like it?  

Also what kind of videogames do you like? Hi Maisie! You're doing a killer job at playing my favorite literary character! Anyway, have there been any super funny moments on set you'd like to tell us about? Do you guys ever prank each other?  That sounds like something he could probably swing, thank you for the suggestion I will mention it to him.  Damn, can't wait for that. What would be in your perfect sandwich? How did George R. R. Martin get the idea of casting you as Arya in GoT and why did you accept the role?

Thanks :3 Do you have a spacer in your ear or is that a normal Ear-Ring? if you're stuck on an island, pick one sandwich (infinite amount of sandwiches), one TV show boxset, one album, and one Game of Thrones cast member to live out your days with. GO!? Since you're being considered to play Ellie in the Last of Us movie, have you had a chance to play the game? Hi Maisie, I love you in the show. You, Tyrion and Jon are my favourite characters. 

My question is what was it like working with Jack Gleeson? He seems like such a nice guy off camera. What did you think of his decision to quit acting once his role ends? What is your favorite Arya line? How annoying is Sophie Turner on set? Being recognized in the street. I used to enjoy being quite anonymous, and now I have to kind of be aware that people know who I am sometimes.

Rory is quite similar to The Hound before breakfast, in that, if he hasn't eaten, he's kind of grumpy! haha! But I love 'im regardless.  Have you ever been to Blackpool?  Hi! Which actor / actress you most like to work with? Hello! I wonder, do you have any knowledge of [this](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6Ajhzlq42f0) video? HI Maisie!

I have 2 questions:

1 - What is your all time favorite food?
2 - What was the funnest scene to film in Game of Thrones?

Thank you for doing this AMA!!! Hey Maisie, big fan! Obviously of you as Arya, but I really enjoyed Cyberbully, I'm sure you've got plenty of experience dealing with faceless men being dicks on the internet, you did a great job!

My question, are there any directors you'd love the chance to work with?  Are you a fan of any sports? Do you speak any other languages, and if not, which ones would you like to learn? Hello Massie. I love your character in GoT. I have these following questions for you.

1) Which scene, in particular, was  toughest to act out for you? 

2)Also, who is your favourite character in GoT?

3) who is most fun on the sets, apart from Peter? 

4) What would be the worst food to eat over rice? 

 Hey Maisie! Best and worst part of being an Internet celebrity? I am huge fan of you Maisie, if not the biggest! If i had to ask one question, it would be in relation to why you are my role model and inspire me to become an actor- "What is life like as an actress and do you enjoy it?" Stay classy Mais :) ily xx
 What was your first acting gig? I've always wondered about this for any child actor in adult movies/TV shows.

When you first began working on Game of Thrones, did you watch it as it aired knowing that there are explicit sex scenes and death scenes? If so, how did you react to these scenes? Hi Maisie! If your character could reunite with any of the Stark siblings, who would you want it to be?  Hey Maisie, love your work &amp; you!
If you had the choice to work with one actor and/or director who would it be any why?
Keep up the good work! :) How much of the books have you read? Can we get more vines? I just like the turtles/tortoises/Terrapins Hi Maisie, what is the funniest thing that's happened on the set of Game Of Thrones, also if you could pick one other character to play, who and why? Thanks from Australia Just a quick one, is there ever a genre or a type of film that you see and say "yeah, I'd love to be in that style" e.g like superhero, comedy etc
Plus, you hitting the Culture Clash this year? Gonna be hard!
Thanks, you're a credit to young actors :) Hi Maisie! I'm a huge, huge fan of yours and you are one of my favorite child actresses ever. :)

How are you? Are you doing well?

What's your favorite flavor of ice cream?

What's your guilty pleasure?

Have you ever been scared that you'll end up like those Disney starlets that don't have a normal childhood/teenage years?

Will you marry me? (Don't worry about it. I'm 16.)

Thank you so much for doing this!

I love you! :) Is the the hound as intimidating as he is on GoT and how would you describe working with him? 

Thank you for doing the AMA. It's winter REALLY coming? What's your all time fave song to rock out too? And what's your fave Beatles song? Enjoy your day :) Most cringe worthy attempt to approach you by a guy? Has being this charactet for so long made you tired of the role in any way?

And as a person hoping to go into the film industry,  what advice could you give me? 

(I love you...) Hi Maisie! You're honestly the coolest person ever!!

Ok so your role of Arya aside, are you still House Stark? Hello Maisie! How and why did you decide to become an actress? Hi Maisie! Great to see you doing an AMA

What was it like coming to Game Of Thrones in the beginning having done little else and starring alongside other major and older actors?

And will we be seeing much of Arya in Season 5?

Thanks, Kyle. What's your favorite type of cheese? Hey Maisie, you're the bomb and I hope you kill many deserving people on Game of Thrones!  
My question is have you played The Last Of Us personally, and if so what did you think of it? I'd love to see you in that role!  
Best of luck in the future, so much talent! What do you think about foot fetishes? As a guy who has one I have to say that you have some really beautiful feet (from what I have seen) but what do you think about them on a personal level? Do you think theyre unusual or do you feel flattered that someone finds a part of your body attractive which is usually deemed unattractive?

On a side note, I loved you in CyberBully
 What is your favorite pudding?

Why are you so awesome?

Where can I ~~stalk~~ meet you in person?

 Hi Maisie thanks for taking the time from your day to do this AMA i'm a huge fan of Game of Thrones and have a couple questions

1) Who is the funniest person on set?

2) Have you heard about Sophie Turner playing Jean Grey? If so what are your thoughts?

3) How are you doing? Are you going to Love Saves The Day if you have time off from filming again this year? Last year was crazy! You make a perfect Arya!  Hey Maisie! I follow you on twitter and love how awesome your friendship with Sophie Turner seems. I have two questions:

What is your favorite story from your time so far on GoT?

Have you seen the /r/whatjonsnowknows subreddit?

Thanks for doing this! Hello Maisie! Thanks for doing this AMA love your acting and I feel like your really portray  Arya Stark the exact way I imagined her in my head while reading. 

1 question....who are you child?  Hey Maisie! I'm a huge fan of the work you have done in Game of Thrones. My question is, considering you're British and all, if you enjoy any specific British comedies/humor? If not, what's the most efficient way that you get yourself to laugh, as far as movies or TV shows go. Thanks a lot for having this AMA!  She will definitely. Hey Maisie!! You're pretty cool. I have a few questions to ask.

1) When's the next time you and the cast will be in LA for the season 5 premiere.

2) If you were a pizza hut, what type of pizza would you be and what would it be called?

3) What are your favorite tv shows to watch (past and present)?

Thank you for doing this! Who would rather have as a pet?
Nymeria or Drogon? Which actor/actress on Game of Thrones, (other than you of course) is the coolest in real life? Hey Maisie, thanks for doing this!

It seems like quality child actors are a dime a dozen nowadays.  You and Sophie Turner were/are incredible mainly considering how the both of you had no experience prior to GOT.  

So what was the experience like, being thrown right into the film industry seemingly overnight? 

Did you find that you were a natural and adapted quickly, or was there a pretty steep learning curve?

Also, do you see yourself acting for the rest of your life or possibly something else? &gt; Clowns to the left of me, jokers to the right, here I am, stuck in the middle

The problem with vaccines is that some are very good and others are stupid.  My dentist is in favor of vaccines but refused to allow them to vaccinate her one-day-old son against hep B.  She called the notion stupid.  She is stuck in the middle with me. Would you be my first? Hi Maisie, would you like to survive till the end of GoT or would you like to have some awesome death scene? Hi Maisie! Welcome to Reddit, thanks for stopping by. I just wanted to say thanks for doing such a great job bringing my favorite character from the books to life. I'm really looking forward to this season and all the exciting things you'll be up to. For my question, I'm just wondering what the funniest moment you've witnessed on set has been? 

Valar Morghulis.  Hi Maisie 

Out of all the people you have worked with who gives you the most inspiration?

Also can the final end to Game of Thrones have you riding down the wall on roller-blades firing arrows at dragons? Hi Maisie! I know you listen to Ed Sheeran a lot but at the moment, who/what band are you currently listening to?

PS. OMG I LOVE YOUR DRESS AT THE SAG AWARDS!!! Hello Maisie! Do you like comic books? If so, what is your favorite hero?  Hey Maisie! Thanks for doing this! Just have one question for you:

What is it like playing such a not only important character, but seemingly iconic character? Does it put any added pressure on you when you see how influential and loved the character of Arya is? 

Bonus Question : Who's your favorite character and why is it the Red Viper?  Have you read the book? I go with Lemon &amp; Herb, but I get the medium sauce.

And occasionally, if I'm feeling daring, I go with the Ring Roulette, and burn the mouth! If you could choose a character from any tv show to have a one off scene in GoT, who would it be? Google says you turn eighteen in April, so who are you voting for in the election in May? Or aren't you? What are the top 5 musicians/bands that you think everyone should listen to? Maisie! What was this year's filming of Game of Thrones like compared to the previous year's?

And any plans for university? Hey masie! You're by far the coolest GoT actor on set. What does it take to be an actor on GoT btw? And how has it affected your personal life being a cast for GoT? Whilst Arya is trudging around Westeros, what do you think she'd have on her ipod?  That's a really good horror game! If you like horror games I'd recommend trying out Outlast. It's really really scary. I bet Rory eats every fookin chicken in the room for breakfast Hey Maisie! How are you? Thank you for doing this AMA. My question is:

What was your funniest encounter with a fan? Who is the most awesome person in the show and why is it Peter Dinklage? What was your favorite memory of working with Rory McCann? You guys had a great chemistry together, and had show watchers hoping for a Arya and the Hound spinoff. Looking forward to your arc in season 5! Hey Maisie!

Arya Stark was my favourite character from Game of Thrones- you portrayed her perfectly! What actor/actress was the most fun to be around when you weren't filming? Hey Maisie, will you be doing more collaborations with YouTubers like Caspar Lee in the future and if so who would you want to work with next? Best stories on set?  What your favourite film?   Rock music, Dwayne "The Rock" Johnson or rocks? Hello Maisie! I was wondering: if YOU could have Arya name any three characters for Jaqen to kill in season 2, which three would you name?

Also, my friend wanted to know if you still dance at all? Hey Maisie! 

Huge fan of your portrayal of Arya Stark, can't wait to see what the future hold for you both in GOT and as an actress. I was wondering how you feel about the direction your character is going. I know you can't say much about the next season, but Arya is a very dark and complex character are you prepared for what surprises lay ahead? Hi Maisie,

I once read that you were scouted for GoT whilst competing in a dance competition. 

Firstly is this true? and secondly do you still dance, if not do you miss it?

Thanks!

x Hi Maisie! Huge fan! Has working on Game of Thrones and other shows affected your social life in any way? is it difficult for you to find time for your old friends? thanks. Next season should be a big one for Arya. Was there any special training involved to prepare yourself for it? Who are you, girl? &gt; of 

This is well documented already. Hey maisie

Your music taste is great, i first heard the andy c remix of major lazor's 'get free' on your radio 1 takeover and it was easily one of my favourite songs of last year! 

As a massive fan of most EDM, what's your favourite artists/tracks at the moment? 

Thanks for taking the time to do this! Hi Masie, can we get a never before seen picture of you? Hi Maisie! 2 questions. Who do you look up to most out of the Thrones cast? And what's your favourite breakfast food?  If my wife and I have a daughter, I really want to name her Maisie. Could you please write a few brief words about why that is the best idea, so I can convince her? Nice :) I've answered this question before! My sigil would be a tortoise, and my saying would be "Go hard or go home" because your shell is hard, and it's also your home, so... Hey maisie, love your acting!!! Im just wondering have you ever been to scotland and whereabouts up there  Hey Maisie, I work next door to the studios in Belfast and haven't managed to see any of you guys around yet but I've seen a few of photos of you guys hanging about in Belfast. How have you found your time in our wee country? Maisie, you seem quite cool. Can we be pals? Hi Maisie, 

I love your work on the show, especially your scenes with Rory McCann.

My niece is 15 years old, crazy about acting (she even acted a small part in a feature film) and a huge fan of you and of GoT. Do you have any advice for her?

Thanks a million,
zep That's the only game that's ever made me feel genuinely scared when I was playing it! Slender is another one you should try if you haven't already! Are you scared at all that people will always look at you and see nothing but Arya? Okay Maisie I would just like to start this off by saying you are one of my favorite actresses, and you're just fantastic. Also, I don't know if you've ever seen MTV's Girl Code, but they have a segment called "My Best Friend in My Head" http://www.mtv.com/shows/girl_code/best-friend-in-my-head/987140/video/ and you are my best friend in my head. You're the coolest.

Okay, actual questions.  How has your dance background helped you with the sword fighting? I think that it's awesome that you did it all left handed too. That's some dedication to character.

What would you, as Maisie, think of Arya if you met her in real life, besides, wow she looks just like me?

Are you as much of a badass bitch as Arya? Would you have your own list?

Which character would you want to play besides Arya?

Are you excited for where she is going in the next seasons?

I'm sorry for the bunch of questions, but you're my fav. Hi Maisie,
How have you dealt with the fame? Any interesting fan encounters? What is your favourite kind of potato?  I'm so much excited.... Um... pepperoni with some extra pepperoni, and then sprinkle it with some pepperoni. Yeah! My absolute favourite. What's your favourite colour? Which actor has the best humour off camera? You're definitely my favorite actor in Game of Thrones! I think you're the perfect person for Arya. I'm not great at questions, so I guess I'll just say you're doing a great job and a lot of us are excited for your role.

Here's my attempt: What is your favorite type of cheese? And do you have a dream role that you'd like to perform from some other book or movie? How does it feel playing a 9 year old girl who's tougher than most of the adult characters? Hey Ms. Williams, 

do you enjoy watching any series yourself? E.g. The Walking Dead, The Simpsons, etc.

Stay Awesome and greetings from Germany

Konsti What is/was Sean Bean like to work with? Hi! By the way I think you're awesome.

So, I only know you from Game of Thrones but I know you've done other stuff too.

If you don't mind me asking, what's been your favourite 'job' and what would you say you've learned the most from? (Bit cheeky sorry - two questions in one there.) Hey Maisie, how is it working with Rory McCann? Is it the part in Braavos? They're a good couple of book chapters. Hey Maisie, love the show!
What do you think you'll want to do after the show ends? (Hopefully never)
What roles would you like to play or would you like to do something completely different? Hey, Maisie! My name's Jack and My question is: What is your fondest memory of filming on set and/or with the cast and crew? Love you and St. Louis, Missouri sends its regards! Hi Maisie, do you think you are similar to Arya in any way, or are you completely different? Thanks! I want to avoid spoilers, but is there any chance we will see a lady with a heart of stone in season 5? Omg! I woke up early specially to ask you questions. You are a legend on reddit so despite if people are weird or rude you are very much loved on here. 
Question time: Did you originally want to play/audition for Arya or did you audition for something else?
What other projects can we expect you in?
What is your favorite pass time?
What is your favorite book (GOT not included)?
Thanks! Hey Maisie, how do you use of sword?
 I'm sure you nailed it! Looking forward to seeing it what is your sexuality?? Hi Maisie! Thank you for answering these questions! You're so beautiful and sweet! Can you tell us what some of your favourite movies and TV shows are? Maisie,  how do to get into character for Arya? Do you feel that you have the same type of personality as her? P.S. You are my dad and mine's favorite character. How has being a part of Game of Thrones changed your life? In your personal life and as an actor I'm also curious to know if she's been screen testing/doing table reads with people for the other roles.  hi maisie, plug your movie here Hi! What is your favorite thing about yourself?   Hi Arya!

How is it like and how did you manage to work in the series as underage actress with all the explicit content? Hi Maisie! Welcome to Reddit and thanks for the AMA.

I just recently watched "Cyberbully" and you were great in it.
The ending confused me a bit. Was it just like a "don't feed the troll" thing? that's what i got from it. Care to explain? Hey Maisie big fan and I can't wait to see the new season!

My question is who do you want to sit sit on the Iron Throne at the end of the series and why is it Stannis the Mannis? Do you have any plans to go to Brazil um December, this year?
#BrazilLovesYou :) Hello Maisie! Have you ever performed something in a language besides English (Spanish, German etc. or fictitious like Dothraki) and if so, what were the challenges? Sup Maisie?  Do you have any upcoming projects that you are really excited about? There's no way Galactus could eat a planet.

WHAT?!

*punches dude in the face*

THIS ONE DOES, DUMMY. Hi Maisie! I'm a big fan of Game of Thrones and I love your portrayal of Arya! (I even named my kitten Arya after your character!) My question is what was your favorite scene to act out and what made it so great? Hi Maisie!

Do you plan to continue pursuing acting after GoT is done, or are you going to focus on your personal life more (school, personal relationships, growing up, etc)?

If you're not going to continue acting, is there another field or interest you hope to acheive in your life?

Keep up the good work! Ok, so I follow you on Twitter (@Arithered) and I can't help but notice the sheer, breathtaking number of people that respond to your every tweet with insane levels of either hate or love--both equally creepy.

Do you find being on social media to be more a burden than a gift?  If you like that game, you might also enjoy Outlast, a similarly themed game that is very well made. Oh, Mercy me. Hi Maisie! How was your audition for Game of Thrones? Were you nervous? Do you watch other HBO shows? If so, what are your favorites?  What the fuck's a Lommy? What do you want to do after game of thrones?  More acting? Movies, tv shows, stage?  Something out of acting?  Do you ever keep in contact with previous cast members of the show? Do a backflip  My favourite subject when I was at school (apart from the usual drama and english) was mathematics, and it was really hard to juggle school &amp; work. And... I sort've... this is a tricky question - school took a bit of a back-seat, and I took my opportunities in live, and hopefully in the future, if I go down a different back, I can go back, get my grades, my certifications, and go and do something else if I want to. So I am aware of your love for superfruit, how fun was filming an episode with Scott and Mitch? What are your plans once Game of Thrones is over?  Who's the one actor/actress you want to work with the most that you haven't worked with yet? Thanks for doing this ama!


What was the most fun scene you have ever done?


What was like being so young and on game of thrones? Were you even allowed to watch the show haha.


Will you go to prom with me? Hey Maisie, I was just wondering if you have any plans on attending any US conventions this year, and if so, any near the Chicago area?

I missed you last year in Tampa Hey Masie, what role would you want to be in any movie or television show if you weren't Arya Stark in Game of Thrones? Nice meme! What has been your favourite episode of game of thrones to film?
 Did you ever expect to start up the friendship with Sophie Turner that you have when you first started on Game of Thrones? Who is the most famous person you have gotten to meet after becoming a tv star?  With being such a young actress on set what keeps you steady with such seasoned actors and actresses? So, Maisie Williams' metaphorical brass balls are bigger than mine in *and* out of Game of Thrones.  Do you get the scripts by email or do they mail you an actual physical copy?  From your twitter I've seen you're a fan of your dance music including B Traits, etc. What are you currently listening/throwing your shapes to? Hey, Maisie. 

So happy you're doing an AMA!
I have a question but it's not very important, lol. 

Back in 2013 I got tickets to a comic con in the UK which you attended, it was awesome. Or so I've heard because I missed my train and didn't get there in time.
I emailed your management (holy crap that sounds creepy reading that out loud) and then realised I was dumb because that's not the place to email. I've tweeted you a few times but I know you're totally busy!

I only really wanted to go to get your autograph but I was totally bummed when I missed my chance :(

Any sign of a UK signing coming up and/or is there any way I could maybe get that autograph on the ol' cheeky sneaky.

Thank you and again, so glad you're doing this AMA! A lot of fans are going to be happy today! :D &gt; Which is funny because the 3rd wave cropped up as a way to address the racism and sex-phobia in previous waves of feminism.

You can't polish a turd without getting covered in shit.  Cringe Hi Maisie! Which is better - a 4 finger KitKat or a KitKat Chunky? What is your favorite flavour of ice cream? what are the odds that you actually read this and actually reply to me? fingers crossed and would it be more awesome if u actually email me? jad.aouad@live.com Hi Maisie, if you could be in any other show apart from Game of Thrones, which would it be and who would you like to play? Can be shows which have ended.  Do you like football?


what football team do you support? If you were a superhero what powers would you have? You are awesome! That is all. :] Good morning Maisie. I was wondering is it difficult to watch back episodes of Game of Thrones but maintain the same amount of interest in the show ( compared to other series you aren't in )  considering you know the ins and outs of the show? What's your favorite soup? HI MAISIE!!!!! If you could see any artist(s) in the world live, alive or dead, who would it be and why? Can GOT just do a Christmas episode where everyone is happy and no one dies?  Hey Maisie!

What will you remember best about your time being an actor for Game of Thrones? Hi Maisie, thanks for answering questions today. In doing your research for the role of Arya Stark, how much of the books did you read? Additionally, from your research into the character, what motivations of Arya Stark do you most identify with? Thanks again for answering questions today! Hi Maisie! Welcome to reddit. I loved your portrayal of Arya and cant wait for what is to happen next season. I have a couple of questions for you. What is your favorite scene you have been in? What is it like seeing yourself on the big screen? Do you watch with your family or is that too weird in the scenes where it gets awkward? What has it been like working with Rory for so long? What is your favorite scene in the whole show (doesn't have to be a scene you are in)?

Thanks so much for taking the time to do this AMA.  Hi Maisie, what's the funniest thing to happen on set during the filming of Game of Thrones? Hi Maisie! Tell me what I need to do in order to marry you please. Is this you at Ed Sheeran? http://s3-ec.buzzfed.com/static/2014-06/29/14/enhanced/webdr09/anigif_enhanced-28532-1404068337-1.gif Hey Maisie! Did you have any knowledge of Arya's path before you took the role? What has been your favorite scene to shoot in the series?  THIS IS IMPORTANT, WHATS YOUR FAVOURITE BRAND OF MILKSHAKE? *_* Will you be doing any more Old Spice adds? Do you like the casting of Kristen Wiig and Melissa McCarthy for Ghostbusters?? Hey Maisie ! I know that you are a crazy girl, so what is the strangest or craziest thing that can be found in your home or closet ? 
Thank you for doing this !  Knock knock. Being that you are from Flint, MI, how do you feel about the direction Flint is headed in right now, and what are your thoughts on the city water problem they are having?

P.S. Go Indians! Hahaha Whattttuppp Maisie!  Curious.. Most of us are addicted ton g.o.t.   What shows are youuuuu glued to?

Also if you could be any type of fruit, what would you be? Hey Maisie, if you could work with any actor/actress, who would it be and why?  Hi Maisie! How is Barney and his offspring? Will we get a dedicated blog about his adventures?
 I love reading through Arya's chapters in ASOIAF, and i feel out of all the actor's you and Dinklage do the best representing the characters from the books.

 What do you identify most with Arya?

Do you ever have trouble getting into character?

And do you plan on working n any other projects besides GOT?
 Do you miss filming Everybody Hates Chris? And do you really have 2 jobs? Hey Maisie, thank you for doing this, I'm never on when people do AMAs, so I was so excited to see you were doing one, you're honestly one of my favorite actors on the show.
1) Where do you hope Arya ends up by the end of the show?
2) What is the most awkward moment that's happened while you guys were filming?

Thankyou
 It was a genuine question.  Okay, I can post a more detailed question now. 

Arya is probably my favourite character on the show. As a 12 year-old, did you fully understand the gravity of you were getting into? When exactly did you realise just how big this gig was?  Hey Maisie! 

First of all,you are doing a great job portraying Arya! Keep it up,i really enjoy the character.

Now my question: Looking back,do you think all this recognition has changed you as a person? Because i can imagine that it would have changed me when i was that age...How are you dealing with it?

 Hey Maisie, I think you're great in GOT and I thought Cyberbully was very well done. I was just wondering what are your ambitions for the future? Where do you hope to go from the hugely successful Game of Thrones?  You're really going for the 'Renaissance woman' in entertainment! You've proven you're an excellent actor and you've shown dancing and singing skills as well!

Do you have a preference right now of which direction you'd prefer to go in the future? Would you stick primarily with acting and the others as 'when you can' or ...?

In your experience on Game of Thrones and the other projects you've been involved with, what are some common things actors do in their downtime between takes? Anything particularly amusing people enjoy to pass the time?

I suppose you have to be careful about spoilers for Game of Thrones, but did you get any extra skills training for this season?

Back on your other talents, is there any style of dance that particularly interests you more than others? Hi Maisie, huge fan, hope you don't die in the upcoming season. (No spoilers people or Jaqen will be coming for you!) That's kinda everything I wanted to say but I guess I have to ask a question since this is an AMA. Do you ever plan on visiting Norway? If so get back to me and I'll help you learn cross-country skiing.
PS. As a fellow victim of bullying thank you for your openness and contributions to combat bullying! Hey Maisie! What is your *honest* opinion on Northern Ireland? Hi Maisie! 
Your personality in media I've seen of you outside of film seems really upbeat and energetic. Do you think that makes it easier or harder to display the grim and dedicated Arya which you do so well with. 
Thanks! THE LAST OF US movie is in very early days. I have spoken to powerful people who are getting THE LAST OF US on its feet. And I'm hopeful that I can play Ellie in the future, but we'll all have to wait and see.  Are you a fan of any other horror games? Perhaps Silent Hill, Penumbra (same developers as Amnesia!) or the more gory Dead Space? Hi Maisie, I'm a huge fan of your work!
What got you interested in appearing in some of the "Teens react to..." videos? Hi. Did you have a  good time at Glastonbury?  Hi there, nice to see you in reddit! Here I go:

Do you still study highschool or something? If not, how would you spend your life if you weren't acting? If you were stuck on a desert island from anyone on the show, who would it be? How do you think you would have coped given you were placed in the same situation Arya was? Whisky? Heya!! Big fan!

How emotionally challenging is it to actually film GoT? 

Are there some days where you are just ready to give up because it's just too much or do you really enjoy every second of it? Oh dear goodness. These games are the stuff of nightmares.  Maisie, I think the absolute world of you. I had to rack my brains for a question, since this might be the only chance I have to say anything to you, despite being the same age and living on the same continent. I decided to hedge my bets and outright ask if you wanted to get married? Go big or go home I think the expression is.
(As a contingency question, was it hard on you emotionally to work on Cyberbully? Phenomenal work on that by the way.)
Much, much love from Ewan (and I'm calling out my friend Eilidh, she loves you too). Hey Maisie!!! I was just curious: who is your favorite actor/actress to work with on set?  Hi maisie

Are there any good bands/DJs you could recommend?

And if its not too much of a hassle, could you follow my clothing brand on twitter (@madferit_co), im struggling to get followers.

Thanks  You wish you had your tortoise emojis on reddit right now, don't you.. How do you feel you have adapted to becoming more and more known as a celebrity, and do you like it? Sure, inbox me. Every time you pick up a new GoT script, do you worry that Arya could be bumped off? Maisie is OG, she will say coffee. I hope How did your relationship with Sophie begin?  what is the most incredible thing about your job?  How would you have liked to have the scenes with Roose Bolton in the show rather than Tywin? Hi Maisie, big fan. Last year two friends of mine helped me ask you out to the senior prom, and you may have ignored me a bit. What up with that Maisie. Let a guy down gently. So I graduated now but I'M NOT GIVING UP ON YOU. 

Do you wanna go to Prom?

Guys I promise I'm not weird. Honestly.

 Who is your least favorite actor in the Game of Thrones cast? Maisie, big fan, love your portrayal of Arya, I'll try and be coy with my question for those who haven't read the books, I assume Arya going to Braavos will be this season. 

Did you find Arya's personality transition as she goes into Braavos difficult to transition to, or you find that it's really natural with all that's been going on around her?

Do you believe in R+L = J ??  Hey yo. Can you describe to me your perfect day? What do you do? Who would you be with? And What would be for dinner? ((:

Ayra is in my top 5 favorite characters btw, you nail the role.  Hello Miss Williams and thank you for the AMA! 
I was wondering, after seeing the gag reels for the show, who is the funniest on set and what is the funniest memory you have from the show so far?
Again thank you for the great AMA! Hi Masie, how did you and Sophie Turner end up being such good friends? Was it just from acting on Game of Thrones or do you guys hang out much off set? Thanks! I'm late to this party but I wanted to go on record as saying you are a national treasure and thank you for being you. Hey Maisie! So I'm going to veer off the GoT path and ask you something tangentially related to Cyberbully (which was great btw). 

You spoke a bit about dealing with internet bullies briefly in the behind the scenes stuff for Channel 4: I was curious to know how you deal with the COLOSSAL amount of social media attention you get and the pitfalls which come with behind famous these days? It must have been quite something to go from being a normal teen online to BLAM a gazillion followers on Twitter/Insta etc.

And do you think young people have a rougher deal now growing up with all these different forms of communication, or are older people fretting a bit too much?  All I'm hearing here is that you're associating every single form of feminism to the most toxic forms of feminism. biggest pet peeve(s)? Hello Maisie, you're fantastic on Game of Thrones!

My question is, are you excited about Arya's [Spoiler](/s "House of Black and White") plotline? I'm SO excited to see you get to do it, I think you'll be amazing!! Hi Maisie, thank's for doing this. I would like to know what are your favourite movie scene ever? Hi Maisie I'm a huge fan! 

Do you see a lot of yourself in Arya Stark and what is your favorite thing about her?  Hey Maisie really love what you do. 
Prom is coming up in a few months and I was wondering if you would go with me? Hi Maisie!

You're the best. I remember after the red wedding reveal your vine post "She dead!". It was hilarious and made my day. Anyway, can I please get a picture that says "Lance is the biggest Game of thrones fan in history?". I will be forever grateful. If not, keep on being awesome.  Sup Maisie! What would you say makes your dream boy? :)  All right, girl. What's your dream role? Gender and size irrelevant. Would you rather fight one Mountain sized Aryas, or one hundred Arya sized mountains? Hey Maisie! Arya's my favorite character in both the books and the show, and you portrayed her brilliantly! I really can't imagine Arya without you now.

Question: How did it feel to be finally able to wear a different outfit after having to wear the same ones for a few seasons? Thank you for doing the AMA.

What would be your dream role and why? Hi Maisie  I love your work! I have 3 questions:
1. If you could reincarnated into any animal what would you choose?
2. what king of video games do you play if any and what platform?
3. And would you ever consider doing a fan meet up in Devon or Cornwall? How daunting was it for you as young actress starting out on something as big as Game of Thrones? Hi Maisie! 

1) Are you concerned for the future of your character on Game of Thrones? 

2) I know you're a dancer so in future do you plan on dancing or acting more? Or bit of both? 

3) Is there anything at all you can tell us about The Last of Us movie as far as your involvement goes?

Thanks! Who is your favourite character on Game of Thrones? Do you find it difficult getting ready for roles other than Arya, due to how long you've played her? Do you plan on playing any custom stories when you finish it? Haha. Victoria, you're getting these subtleties in the way the actors speak really well.  Hi Maisie and thanks for doing this!

If you could be involved in an adaptation of any source (novel, video game, comic book, etc.) into a film, what would it be and why? Hey Maisie. 

How do you prepare for your role with Arya? Do you read the her POV chapters or anything else to get you in the mind of my favorite stark? *Amnesia* is amazing! Hello Bill Gates,

We would like to first thank you for all you are doing around the world! We are a small nonprofit whose main purpose is to make a difference in Kenya's Kikoko village. We have been in existence for 4 years and would like to finally have some physical results in Kikoko. How can we partner with larger organizations to achieve our goals and make them sustainable? Also, what does it take to get the "poop project" in Kikoko village?  Hey Maisie,
	Which cast member on Game of Thrones is the funniest off screen? 
	What's a little known fact about you?
Thanks, love your work!
 How are your fans reaction when meeting you? Any particularly weird stories? Hi Maisie! Question. For the longest time, Arya wore pretty much the same costume. Did you get tired of it at all? Or envious of characters with a more extensive wardrobe? Valar morghulis! 1.) I would love to play... Cersei, because she's badass. 

2.) Ehm - I think... Ron (Tyrion's left hand man) would do a really good job? Cuz he's funny! 

3.) Ehm...oooh! If I had a super-power... I can't think of anything? Oh! Probably shape-shift. 

4.) Dancing. That was kind of my career path before acting, but yeah. Things change. And now I'm acting.

5.) Green! Hi Maisie!

Who has been your favorite actor/actress you've worked with? Hi Maisie,

As an actress, how has it been trying to keep up with Arya's very dynamic character?

I would imagine that the new season could have thrown some challenges your way with regards to how Arya progresses! &gt;I used to enjoy being quite anonymous, and now I have to kind of be aware that people know who I am sometimes.

Do you just accept it? Or do you try to be inconspicuous? I don't know if I could handle that. My friend wants to know if you would like to go to prom with him?  My tear ducts are ready. Who's your favorite Pokmon?  Hello Maisie! Love your work! Someone from /r/gameofthrones said they saw you in an Ed Sheeran concert video. Gif [here](http://s3-ec.buzzfed.com/static/2014-06/29/14/enhanced/webdr09/anigif_enhanced-28532-1404068337-1.gif). What type of music is your favorite? Are you a big Ed Sheeran fan? Thanks! Terry, can you please have someone make a mix of just all of your scenes from the latest season of Brooklyn Nine-Nine, sequentially? I think your parts are hilarious, and I would watch just the Terry show. Good morning/afternoon/whatever, Maisie! 

I was just wondering, we're you ever going to try [coloring your eyebrows again?](http://i.imgur.com/0P5lhJ2.png) I think they looked amazing, and you could totally make it a thing, and nobody would complain. 

I also just wanted to say I really loved your dress for SAG this past weekend! It's not exactly socially acceptable for me to wear dresses in public, but I'm still slightly jealous of it, lol. 

Also, you mentioned your turtle was going to be a dad, but we never got an update :(

Thanks for doing this AMA! I hope you have fun, and thanks for all the things you're doing to end cyber bullying, I'm sure everyone here appreciates it! What kind of bear is best? I love you. Hey Maisie, 

As someone who has been reading the Song of Ice and Fire books for well over a decade now, I can't express how wonderful it is to see you bring Arya to live on the screen. You are (with the possible exception of Peter Dinklage) my favorite casting choice on the show . Which is saying a lot because it's a difficult role and Arya is one of my favorite characters. 

As far as questions go: How do *you* see Arya's character arc ending? Will she get the revenge she has been seeking for so long? Will she reunite with (what's left of) her family and learn that a life consumed by the thought of revenge isn't a life worth living? Will she meet a grisly death because George R.R. Martin likes to torture his fans by killing their favorite characters? 

Thanks for doing this AMA!  Hi Maisie,

I just wanted to say hi.  And you seem really awesome.

Thanks. Hey Maisie! Can't wait to see you kill it as Arya in the 5th season.  Are you and Sophie super good friends off set still, even though you might not have as many scenes together? Do you like pasta? If you could change one thing about Arya's storyline so far, what would it be? haha i don't have one! I just see who is doing an AMA and i ask them a question. You have to get in pretty early though because if it's a major celeb they are gonna have 300 questions within 5 minutes. Good morning Maisie! How are you today? what advice could you give to an aspiring actor who would love to be on game of thrones                            ps would you be my friend i dont have many friends sorry that sounded creepy
 Hey Maisie! Thank you for doing this AMA! 

I study behavioral sciences, so I'm always very interested in the psychology of a person. So my question is: being a famous child actress, how has this affected you're personality or even your social skills? 

You're actually half a year older or so than I am. And I know that for me, the people I see in school and home are very important to who I am as a person. So that's why I wondered if you feel like you have a different vision of the world than most other people our age? 

Side question; How does education work for a child actress? Do you go to school as much as 'normal'  kid would? 

Thank you!  Okay, this is going a bit off-topic, but this question is for YOU. Are you British? I have a followup if you are/. Nothing quite like a cheeky Nandos with the lads #bantz #archbishopofbanterbury Hi maisie!
my question is who do you think eould win in a fight between batman and darth vader?

Thanks in advance! I'm a huge fan! Who are your favourite artists and/or bands in regards to music? Would you rather fight 100 duck sized horses or 1 horse sized duck? Why?  How is it going from being a regular (albeit famous) girl to someone who's lost all her family in a hostile and twisted world?  Who are you child? Maisie! Big question; tea or coffee? **PLEASE READ THIS MESSAGE IN ITS ENTIRETY BEFORE TAKING ACTION. ALL AMAs REQUIRE PROOF**

[Please review our guidelines on what is acceptable as proof.](http://www.reddit.com/r/IAmA/wiki/index#wiki_3._what_constitutes_.22proof.22.3F)

If you intend to submit public proof, please edit a link to your proof into your current post and [message the moderators by clicking here](http://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2FIAmA&amp;subject=Post%20Review%20Request&amp;message=I%20have%20added%20proof%20to%20my%20post,%20please%20review%3a%0d%0a%0d%0ahttp://www.reddit.com/r/IAmA/comments/2u763u/businesstechnology/). This must be proof a reasonable person believes verifies your claims. The mods **strongly** encourage you to provide public proof.

If you absolutely cannot provide public proof, you can work with the moderation team to confidentially verify proof of your topic or subject. *Remember: Mod verification requires unequivocal proof*. [To submit confidential proof, please click here](https://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2FIAmA&amp;subject=Need+Confidential+Verification&amp;message=My+AMA+needs+to+remain+confidential.%0d%0a%0d%0aMy+proof%3a%0d%0a%0d%0a%3Cinsert+proof+for+verification+here%3E)

       
If you believe you have received this message in error or have another question - [please message the mods by clicking here.](http://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2FIAmA)


*[I am a bot](/r/AutoModerator/comments/q11pu/what_is_automoderator/), and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2FIAmA) if you have any questions or concerns.* Hey Maisie!

Have you read the books? What is your favourite character (except Arya)? What did you want to be when you were growing up? Did you always wann be an actress? Do you ever go to 4chan? They are completely infatuated with you over there. That's brilliant! Maths is awesome.  Were you a fan of Robot Chicken before you appeared in an episode last year? If not, do you watch the show now? Hi Maisie, greetings from Brazil! 
I would like to know what is the worst question journalists insist on asking you and what is your standard answer. 
You're great at what you do!  Hey Maisie I doubt this question will reach you but I just wanted to know, since you're probably the only person who knows Arya Stark as well as, if not better than, George RR Martin himself...

What do you think is in store for Arya in the Winds of Winter?

If Arya had to make a choice between the faceless men and the Starks (like Jon did), which would she choose?

And also if I dare ask one more question, are you and Sophie going to be working together in another series/movie anytime soon?  Yum. So let's say my goal in life is to be friends with you, how do I go about achieving that?  Hey Maisie, first of all I have to say I really love how you play Arya in GOT. I coudn't imagine anyone else playing the role. When I'm in front of the TV, I'm always cheering for Arya. :D


Here my questions for you:

- When you did your Ice Bucket Challenge video, you stood on the roof of a building. Is standing there something you do often and/or enjoy?

- Have you ever been in Austria? And if, what did you like/hate?

- Do you have props from GOT at home? And if, what did you keep and why? DnB or Pop?

P.S Cool to meet you at R1 Big Weekend, I think I forgot to give you your change back for those pints so owe you 2! If you were given a chance, would you enter Big Brother? What was your initial reaction when your name came up to play Ellie in the last of us movie?  Love you in GOT btw, one of my favorite actresses on the show :).
A few questions, 
Who is your favorite person to work with?
What is your favorite character? (Other than Arya)
When do you think Arya will be killed?

Thanks for the AMA! You're awesome My favorite part is when someone pees and you say time OUT and use the spray. What about those hamsters? Do they return every year or are they replaced? Will you be doing the puppy Olympics Brasil 2016? Hi Maisie! Big fan!

Would you say you embellish Arya a lot growing up? What would you say you've taken the most from her growing up that you portray? Hi Maisie and welcome to Reddit!

1) Arya is one of the most exciting and interesting female characters in fiction. She's tough, independent, whip-smart and (especially as you portray her) funny. However, she's also been through some horrible things, and is becoming increasingly violent. Is Arya alright? Is her violence the only possible response to the world around her, or she becoming unhinged. 

2) You absolutely *killed it* in your scenes with Charles Dance. What was it like working through what were, in my opinion, some of the best scenes of the show? Hi. Do you have a talent or an achievement outside acting you wish people knew about? Shape shifting, of course! Very appropriate. Thank you for answering my qestions, enjoy the AMA :) What would you say to Vladimir Putin given the chance? Hello from Alaska!! =D If you could be any other character on GOT who would it be and why?  How did you end up being on all the Fine Bro's react videos? Did they contact you, or you them? Hello Maisie! Firstly I wanna say Arya was my already my favorite character before I saw the show, and your performance solidified her as number 1!

My question is: which of your favorite actors would you like to see join the cast in an upcoming season?  Hi Maisie Williams. I'm a big fan yours in Game of Thrones! I was wondering what are some of your favorite TV shows on right now?  Are you going to do any more episodes of Teens React in the near future? Are you going to try and get into the new Star Wars movies? Because that would be amazing!!! Hello Maisie! I had a question for the GoT cast in general- Does everyone read their character's parts from the books? 

Also, I just wanted to tell you that you are exactly what I pictured Arya would be like. Thank you for nailing that character! Yarp You and Rory McCann seem like pretty good friends.  Do you still hang out with him since shooting has finished? Do you play any video games? If yes which kind? If you had a sword outside of the show, what would its name be? Hi Maisie,
What's your favourite scene from all of Game of Thrones so far?? Arya is my favourite character!  'ello Maisie. I really like your character. Was it exhausting to say the names of the the ones you want dead in the show (Joffrey... Cersei...) over and over? As a guy who has finally got around to learning to drive, do you have any advice for when I take my test? Why isn't your name ItsSupetRobb? Has working on the series made you want to read the books? Who's the coolest actor in GoT? Got any funny stories to tell from when you were filming with Rory McCann? 

You two were one of the highlights of the last season for me, you had such a great chemistry on screen. All forms of feminism are parasitic. They all lie- either to everyone around them or worse, to themselves.  Hi Maisie! Thank you so much for the AMA!

I'm wondering what your favorite book is? Is there one you go back to every now and then and reread, or something that really stuck with you as a kid? Hey Maisie! Thanks for doing the AMA!

Just one question if you IRL would to Fuck, Marry, and Kill 3 characters from Game of Thrones

Joeffry, Robert Baratheon, and Theon Greyjoy
 House Genbu! I AM EARLY TO AN AMA AND IT'S YOU, OF ALL PEOPLE!

I love your vines, the ones with Sophie are great because it shows how   close you guys are outside of the show!

My question is what was the hardest piece of acting you had to do? Was there a scene that you couldn't tackle like all the others? Yeah I am. Can we expect to see you in any new films/tv shows this year? Did you get to keep needle, or does it stay on set? So less 'do your best or don't bother' and more 'if you don't feel like working too hard, your bed is right there...'

Well, you've got my bid for the Iron Throne. Would you rather fight one grumpkin-sized snark, or forty snark-sized grumpkins? Hey Maisie, Who is your favorite person to work with? Least favorite? Hei Maisie. Did you ever regret signing up for the show? Was there any day where you found it hard to muster courage to go the set and film ? Can you give me a shoutout for a friend? His name is Ben and he's in love with you in GoT :) How hard was it for you to film Cyberbully giving your high profile which inevitably attracts people to attack you? Hello Maisie! Thanks for doing this AMA! I'm curious if dancing is something that you want to pursue professionally in the future? What do you see yourself doing after GoT ended? Acting, dancing, or both? Who is your favorite actor to work with in Game of Thrones? I'm a long-time book reader and the first time I saw you on screen I knew you were Arya incarnate. Great job and best of luck in your future career! First of all, thank you for staying up so long, that's really really nice of you!

And after Game of Thrones, I'd love to continue in television, and I'd love to move on to movies as well. I don't really know what I want to do? But I think that's quite cool, because I'm only 17 and I don't have to decide yet. But definitely staying in performing.

She's absolutely fantastic. She's probably one of the funniest girls I know. And I'm so glad that I met her.

It's very difficult. I'm madly in love with him. And it's quite - everybody has a crush on him. But I'd never tell him. Oh well, now the internet knows.

Hahahaha! Oh! 

I would love to fight 100 little duck-sized Hounds. Because I'd never in my life looked down on Rory, and that would be an interesting situation.  Oh man, I have a few responses here. 

1. Well she's Sarah Connor, of course she's badass.

2. I hope you get cast in a superhero movie as a shapeshifter some day!

4. *insert Braavosi water dancing joke here* What do you do in your downtime when your not acting ? Got any cool hobbies? Hey Maisie,

Love you on GoT. Can't wait for the new season.

Question is: What movie or TV show, old or new, would you love to have been a part of? When are you and Sophie Turner getting your own Buddy Cop show?  Hey Maisie, huge fan!

You've had scenes with a lot of great actors on Game of Thrones. 

Who has been the most fun to work with and what have you learnt from these actors? Ellen Page must be kicking herself right now. Hi Maisie!

Big fan of Game of Thrones and your portrayal of my favorite character from the books. While we all want this show to never end, I was wondering if you've given much thought to what comes next? Do you plan on pursuing other projects in television or film? Maybe launch a music career as a pop star? As a fan I hope that I can follow you for many more years beyond GoT!
Thanks! Hello Maisie! Before you started GoT (or even after) what was/is the TV series you absolutely could not miss an episode of?  Is watching GoT as exciting to watch even though you've read the script and been a part of the filming? What is your favorite breakfast meal? Hi Maisey! What would you say is next for your career after Game of Thrones?  Hey Maisie thank you for doing an Ama and an amazing job playing my favorite character in GOT Have you ever seen the movie Earthlings? I don't really have a question to ask...but I do have a story to tell (I hope that isn't against the rules or anything!)

Well, here goes:

Sophomore year of high school, my best friend Adam (we'd been really close since 5th grade) was diagnosed with late stage leukemia. Due to the severity of his illness, they started chemo almost immediately. As his best friend, I wanted to be by his side throughout. So I would go with him to his treatments and try and keep him in good spirits...which got progressively harder as time went on. (I feel like this isnt something they show in the movies that often...he grew increasingly lethargic after every treatment. It was only during the off weeks that he really started to gain his energy back.)

Now, this all happened around the time when **A Feast For Crows** was released. So, in an attempt to bring some excitement to this dreadful situation, I decided to bring a book and read to him during his treatments. Over the course of a few months, we read all four Game of Thrones books, and we'd discuss so much about the story when we were done. 

Adam's absolute favorite character was Arya. Maybe my memories have become sensationalized in the past 10 years, but every time we got to an Arya chapter he seemed to gain a bunch of energy and perk up. Our discussions always seemed to come back around to Arya and how complex the character is and how hard everything she's going through must be (I think he kind of identified with her on some levels there.) 

Adam passed away 14 months later. He never got to see the show. He'll never get to know how the story ends. But I think the biggest injustice of all is that he won't get to see you bring his favorite character to life. He won't get to appreciate the nuiance that you bring to the character.

Watching the show has been really hard for me, but it's also helped me relive those days at the hospital spending time with Adam and bonding over a beautiful series. 

Thank you for doing justice to such a great literary character. Wherever he is, I'm sure Adam would say the same thing.

-----------

I guess if I had to ask one question it would be: what is your favorite memory from your past that has most influenced the person you are today? Hey Maisie! What's been your best encounter with a fan? I don't have a question. Just a statement. Most people's heroes are superman, batman, and the like. Arya of House Stark of Winterfell is my hero. They could not have cast a more perfect person to portray her in my opinion! I look forward to seeing what you do with some of the upcoming story for Arya!  Do you like Raisins? Hello Maisie,
Whats it like working with Rory McCann? Are you two pals in real life? He seems like someone who is funny offset, thanks! Hi Maisie!

Bran was just trying to practice his archery. Why'd you have to steal his thunder man? That'd be amazing!  Very long hours. Because I love to sleep. I like sleeping more than most of my siblings. So staying awake and working long, long hours is very difficult.  Wow, that is a huge discount. Hi Maisie,

What's your favourite breed of dog? 
Do you even like dogs?
What about cats? What's your deepest secret that you'd be willing to share on this AMA. What do you like on your pizza? You're perfect to play Arya! How has it been, going from being ordinary to being ordinary but a "celebrity"? Did it happen quickly, or slowly enough to adapt? What sort of movie would you like to be in?  What was your favourite scene to film in Game of Thrones? Maisie, what's next on your bucket list? Hi Maisie!! I think you're really rad and I love your dance/sword skills. Who's the best dancer (besides you of course) on the set?  Hi Maisie

How much time do you get to spend with the other actors who aren't necessarily part of your part of the story so far? And any funny stories from on set?

Thanks What Game of Thrones character do you relate to the most? Each case of chicken is around 54 bucks ($5.40 cents a bag of chicken and each bag contains either 12 or  16  pieces of chicken.) The ingredients cost around $20 usually last around a day and a half, and I get paid $9.
 More emotional than Nymeria, I don't believe it. Stick to acting, stand-up comedy isn't that great anyway. Hey Maisie, I saw [The Falling](http://www.imdb.com/title/tt3294200/combined) at the London Film Festival, can you tell us a bit about what drew you to that project? Hi Maisie! Have you got any new roles coming in the near future? If so, who do you play and what is the role?

P.S. Can I have Natalie Dormer's number? rip in pepperoni This is most likely Victoria answering. /u/chooter. Would you kindly go back up and insert some Turtle emojis to fix this answer?  Best life advice? Do you hate it when on the Internet people call you Arya instead of Maisie? What's the first thing Arya would do if she had Joffry alone in a room? What's your favorite soup? Hey Maisie! I'm a huge fan. My question is, who are your biggest role models in relation to you career? Or just life in general. Just wanted to say that I am a huge fan and that you are super talented. My question is what is your favourite colour?
Thanks for doing this AMA, your awesome. Hi Maisie! 

What was the funniest time you've been pranked, or pranked, sometime while on set? Thank you!  Are you going to do more Teens React episodes?  This is one of the best puns I've ever seen! Thanks for making my morning!  Hello Maisie! Thank you for doing this AMA. Is there a book that you've read and would love to see be adapted for film as well as star in? You're Awesome! Take care Cool.

Have you played THE LAST OF US, though?  Maisie! You're a bad ass as Arya in GoT! Are you similarly hard edged in real life or has this been a trait you've needed to master for the show? You portray it so perfectly I'm convinced you are a terror. Thanks for doing this AMA, I'm a big fan!  Hi Maisie, just wondering what you think is the most satisfying thing about being a part of such a huge tv show? How do you feel about eating chickens? Do you plan on going to any conventions anytime soon, particularly in Florida ? And how did it feel playing a boy for most of GoT ? 


P.s. I love you  Hey Maisie, pepsi or coke? hi Maisie, what do you like to do in your spare time besides save dolphins, make awesome movies/tv show and tweet? thanks
 What do we say to the God of Death? Hello Maise!
Can you tell us something about your possible role on The Last of Us movie? :D Hey Maisie, how often do you get recognized in public? How awkward is it? Not sure what your history of visiting us over here in America is like but is there anywhere across the pond you particularly like visiting? Or anywhere you would like to visit that you have not? Thanks, and keep up the awesome work!

P.S. you should definitely watch the Super Bowl this weekend! Heheheehee!

I think as I've grown up, as Arya's growing up, there's definitely similarities between us. And it's been really helpful for her personality to change as I've gotten older. And it's been great for me to make the transition into being an adult actor with the same character. And I still look at chickens and think they're delicious, haha! Hi Maisie! Your personality in media I've seen of you outside of film seems rather upbeat and energetic. If this is accurate do you think that helps or hinders your depiction of the downcast and angry Arya Stark?  Hey Massie,


I heard that you had to learn to swordfight with your off-hand. I just wanted to say that makes you even cooler in my book!

 Do you like hummus? He was the best part of that movie. On a much smaller screen or scale compared to Game of Thrones, what was it like to be on the Fine Brother's Teens React series? Heh. If you were a t-shirt, what colour would you be, and why? Crunchy! People who like smooth peanut butter are just aliens.  All hail king Ron! Arya is my favourite fictional character, so I just wanna say that you are amazing at portraying her :D

What is your favourite movie? Hey Maisie! I love your Arya character, it is very true to the one in the books.

I understand that you and Sophie Turner has become great friends through GOT. Is there anyone else you hang out with?

Also, how did you get into acting? And are you willing to marry me? (Im a dane and I promise I am nice and stuff) &lt;3 Would you rather stab one horse size Polliver or 100 duck size Pollivers'? Whoa, I didn't know there was gonna be a The Last of Us movie. That would be awesome. My PS3 broke just about the time the game came out so yeah. 
  Hey Maisie!
My question is, have you ever looked ahead in the GoT timeline to see what happens to Arya? You ROCK! Hodor Hey man, encode your music to V0. It's the best sound quality for size. 320 CBR is way to big for it's sound. V0 and 320 sound indistinguishable from each other and you cut the file size down quite a bit. What's your favourite places to eat in Bath? Hi Maisie!

Anya's excellent journey through your Westeros has taken you to some pretty kickass world real  places. Has there been any clear favorite over the years? 

Also I has read that Arya is becoming a rising name for newborn girls. How does it feel being so many people's namesake? Have you ever met an arya?  Greetings!
I've always wanted to know, do unscripted sword fights ever break out between scenes? If i had a sword in my hand and so did someone next to me, we would be dueling for sure. 

Looking forward to a great season. U are my favorite character btw (books and show)

Cheers Will you be my Valentine? Bronn* Do you have a boyfriend? hey Maisie, big fan of the show and Arya is my absolute favourite character.

Being Tywin's cup bearer, travelling to The Twins and then to the bloody gate - I get nervous and worried for her constantly!!    

Do you know the future of the character already (either being told by David and Dan or from the books) or do you read your scripts nervously wondering Arya's fate like I do when I'm watching?
 This is pretty much the only reason I clicked on this AMA. I think you mean Bronn :). Hi, Maisie! I'm a big fan of your work, Cyberbully, Game Of thrones and I'm looking forward to The Falling. Arya is my favourite character in GoT and I smile every time you appear on screen! :)
My question to you:
What has been the most and least challenging thing that you've had to deal with in acting and in life as a young celebrity? 
Big fan, I love you! Be my girlfriend? No, shut up Taryll. Yes... No... 
Haha, I'm stupid. 
Valar Morghulis. :) What are some of the best places/events you've been to because of your job? And do you enjoy the travelling that comes with it? Maisie! When you started filming game of thrones, did you think it was going to take off like it did? Hey Maisie!
In scenes with an under-age actor/actress and nude people at the same time, how do they shield the young people from the nudity? One scene that comes to mind is Bran watching Cersi and Jamie in the first episode. Did that actor (don't know his name) just see the nakedness, or did they have to film it in a way so he couldn't? Hi Maisie, what music festival would you like to go to the most? Do you have any favorites that you've been to so far? Wow, never got to an ama so early. 15 minutes and it's a total shit fight!  Secretly enjoy?

Oh! Well it's not much of a secret, but I really enjoy The Great British Bake-Off. It's like a competition show, but they all bake it, and it's very funny, because they all cry over techniques. Like if they get their cake wrong, they're just sobbing over a spongecake, and I find it hilarious.  Hey Maisie, thanks for the AMA!
I was wondering how you manage A-levels whilst acting? Also, do you have any academic goals? e,g University 

Looking forward to season 5!  Who are you, child? Maisie, what is your favorite meme? Hey Maisie,

If you weren't an actor, what would you rather be doing? Any specific job aspirations once you're done working as an actor? Don't stop any time soon though! Best place you have visited while filming Game of thrones? I think you would be perfect for her! Your version of Arya is already very similar to Ellie's personality! Now if we could just get Rory McCann to look like Joel and play him!  Hi Maisie, what's your favorite TV show, movie and book?  These you mean?  And you're hungry like the wolf? I'm super late to the game, but Terry, if you see this... PLEASE narrate the audiobook for *manhood*!!! 11 minutes in, thought FINALLY an AMA I could be a part of aaand ...nope all the good questions asked SO
Maisie, you participated in Sky Art's portrait artist of the year, did you actually like the painting you chose? Do you still have it, is it hanging up in your home? Hello Maisie from an [extra in S5 of Game of Thrones (Spotted myself in the trailer!)](http://i.imgur.com/dBJVcTq.png).

My question to you is,

If you could choose any role throughout the history of film and TV, what would it be and why?

Cheers! Here's to hoping I get a scene with ya in S6! My favourite movie - THE AMAZING SPIDER-MAN. And my serious favorite film is called LIKE CRAZY. Hello Maisie!


What is the coolest thing your success has afforded you to do?


Also, I adore yours and Sophie's friendship outside of the show.  Have they let you keep any props or set pieces, or did you borrow some without permission for an undetermined amount of time. You're connected to big fantasy/sci-fi franchises like Game of Thrones and potentially The Last of Us... are you a fan of genre fiction? If so, what are some of your favorite shows/movies/books/whatever?

Love your work - big thanks to you and the GoT team for helping keep the NI media industry going! Can I borrow 20 bucks? If you could listen to only one song for the rest of your life, what song would that be? What do we say to the god of death? Who are your favorite actors in GOT that we may not be able to tell, based on watching, that they are freaking awesome in real life. How would you describe the transition from being an every day average person like the rest of us into the world of fame? Is it scary or something to relish?  Hey Maisie, just curious: how did you get into tortoises?  Hello Maisie! What music artists are you currently enjoying listening to?
And what artist do you listen to that you consider a guilty pleasure? 

Many thanks! :) x I think you'd be fantastic, and as you may already know you're a firm favourite with the fans of the original game :) Hey maisie love your acting, im wondering have you ever been to Scotland? Book fans will not be excited most likely.  Hey Maisie, what do you like to do for fun when you're not working? Also, would you ever date a fan? (Sorry, I had to ask) I know this might sound a little personal, but what time in your life were you most happy? Disagree on your first point, agree completely on your second. You're unlikely to get anything that's not all marketing hype at the supermarket, but it's entirely possible to get humanely raised meat at farmers' markets, CSAs, and farm stores (which are the best, IMO, because you can actually see how the animals are kept).

I've also worked on a number of small farms, where we've slaughtered chickens, rabbits, a pig, and a goat for personal consumption, and can proudly say that all those animals lived quality lives - pecking, munching, rooting, and grazing - until their day came.  Hi Maisie, thanks for doing this AMA! I have a few questions:

1) If you could take over any franchise, which one would it be and who would you kill off?
2) I have seen you in some videos with various YouTubers - would you like to build more of an online presence on YouTube for yourself and if so, what would you do (e.g. vlogs, sketches, etc.)
3) What are you a fan of that no-one would think you were a fan of? I saw you at Tampa Comic Con two years ago and you are just the cutest thing ever! Do you ever feel like you're missing out on all the things your peers are experiencing? Being on the show and everything that comes with it has to have forced you too grow up  fast. &gt; Probably shape-shift.

Then you could be "no one."  =) Probably the only person to ask something other than a G.O.T Question... What was it like to make CyberBully? and what appealed to you to want to star in it? Maisie,

I dont suppose you were on a Virgin train from Euston to Manchester in first class on Sunday 25th 8pm? If so I sat on your table, but was unsure if it was you or not. But seeing your nose ring and nail polish makes me feel it was you!

:) What are your plans after GoT? Tv or film? Hiya Maisie,
We saw you at Love Saves the day, Bristol and Tokyo Dub. Who's your favourite DJ? And will you be going this year? If so, we will look out for you! I haven't read the books. And I didn't read them before I got the role.

I do want to read them but I'm going to wait until the season is finished. But I can't wait to see what really happens to Arya! Yes! Maisie, is there anyone character in the show you would like to see Arya interact with who she hasn't had scenes with already? Hi Maisie! Love you as Arya in GOT! 

Questions: What is the best part of filming on location? 

Also:

What is your favourite animal? If you have read the books, how do you feel about the changes the show is making from the books? 

 Favorite Pokemon? Thanks for doing this! What has been your favorite episode/scene to film so far?  Hi Maisie, what is your favourite music to dance to? Does the new season bring some romance Arya's way? Hi Maisie,

If you could have one of the Stark kids (including Jon) as your real sibling, which one would it be? What do you do for fun when you're not acting? Hi Masie, I'm studying to be a teacher, so I'm curious if it's difficult for you to balance your education and work?  Hi Maisie! Thanks for doing this AMA. I've always loved Arya and you do such a fantastic job of portraying her. Who is your favourite cast member to work with? What would you be doing if you weren't an actor? Any other careers interest you?  Which character's death on GoT did you despise the most? I mean which actor, whose character died on the show, do you miss the most on the sets? I once was a featured extra in the movie "Elizabethtown" directed by Cameron Crowe, so I'm a pretty big deal. You probably know who I am. If you could ask me any one question, what would it be?

Seriously though, you're awesome. When you're not on set of Game of Thrones, how do you go about writing and editing the script for your everyday life?  Hey Maisie! That's not a question but ok..
Everything started last year when I suffered bullying at school, I got really sad, but I found Game Of Thrones and A Song Of Ice and Fire. my favourite character is Arya, I looks like her, she is not like the others girls, she is different. I was different, not like the other girls. Anyway I Was looking the cast of Game Of Thrones and I found you, and you play my favourite character. I found your vines and your Instagram videos. Maisie, you made me laugh! You took me off a depression.
  Now I have amazing friends and all thanks to you. You are awesome,you are amazing! Thank you for everything,Maisie! :) 
    :O I've heard that you have a private tumblr account that you use and nobody knows it's you.  Is that true?  I don't want to know the name of it, I just like the idea. Haha, wow, didn't even pick up on that. 

Also, props to you for not freaking out about someone answering on your AMA... I've only ever really been answered by the professional cuddler and a Wendy's employee. They were both awesome, though! Played a 9 year old bad ass who survived insane odds? Check. I think Ellie is in the bag. Is maths something you think you might like to pursue in the future? I recommend watching [ViHart](https://www.youtube.com/user/Vihart)'s videos on youtube if you haven't already. They're a great way to learn about and get excited about mathematics! Is it weird being friends with your "co-stars" despite not having shot a scene with them in years? I mean you haven't been with John Snow since ep 1 HI Maisie, big fan of GOT and your work on the show.

My question: After GOT is over what direction would you like to take your acting career? Also, Who are some people you would love to work with in the industry? How was Boomtown? Hi Maisie, 
Who is your favourite person to work with one the GoT set?  
Also, what superpower would you want to have?  its bron :/ Maisie! Great job on GoT!
Just wanted to say hi. 
Hi!  Who do you want/think is going to win the Superbowl? What does the Hound smell like? :) I Love you, I honestly cannot see anyone playing Arya like you do. Can't wait for April! Season 3. At the season 3 premiere, we went to the Chinese Theater in Los Angeles, and stepping out of the car, with hundreds of people screaming my name, is when I realized that this show completely changed my life. It was very, very daunting - I found it quite scary - but it happened gradually, so I had time to get used to it.  Hey Maisie really big fan of your work. My friend loves you!!! If you have the time can you give a shout out to Adelie please, like with a picture or something. Pretty please. Hi Maisie, I love your work xo Sophia Turner kicked steve in the nuts

have you done that before? or would you? lol kick  a guy in the nuts if he let/wanted you to?  Was there anyone you worked with on GoT that made you feel star-struck? If so can you describe what that experience was like?

I absolutely love the show! Hello Maisie, 

Will you be going back to the happiest place on earth, Glastonbury this year?

Thanks for doing the AMA Hi Maisie, huge fan of the show and your performance as Arya.

Out of all the conventions and events you've had with the cast and crew outside of filming, what have been your favorite moments? Hey Maisie, is there any actor you would love to work with? Do you think Arya would rather fight 1 horse-sized duck, or 100 duck sized horses?

How about you, which would you choose? Have they let you keep any props or set pieces, or did you borrow some without permission for an undetermined amount of time?

 Hey Maisie! Who's your favorite rapper? How did you become friends with Scott and Mitch? I love pentatonix and think it's really cool that you are close with them If I never watched Game of Thrones in my life what else might I know you for? (Doesn't have to be acting)  How do you like your porridge? Hi Maisie! Thanks for doing this AMA! Arya is easily my favorite character on game of thrones, I'm also reading the book and her story arc is also easily my favorite! My question is, have you read the "A Song of Ice and Fire" series? Do the directors advise you not to read the books? If you do read them, how do you take what GRRM has written and apply it to your acting?  You came close to number 4. You know the Dance of Braavos! ;) **PLEASE READ THIS MESSAGE IN ITS ENTIRETY BEFORE TAKING ACTION. ALL AMAs REQUIRE PROOF**

[Please review our guidelines on what is acceptable as proof.](http://www.reddit.com/r/IAmA/wiki/index#wiki_3._what_constitutes_.22proof.22.3F)

If you intend to submit public proof, please edit a link to your proof into your current post and [message the moderators by clicking here](http://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2FIAmA&amp;subject=Post%20Review%20Request&amp;message=I%20have%20added%20proof%20to%20my%20post,%20please%20review%3a%0d%0a%0d%0ahttp://www.reddit.com/r/IAmA/comments/2u76sy/iama_blank_amapaul6162/). This must be proof a reasonable person believes verifies your claims. The mods **strongly** encourage you to provide public proof.

If you absolutely cannot provide public proof, you can work with the moderation team to confidentially verify proof of your topic or subject. *Remember: Mod verification requires unequivocal proof*. [To submit confidential proof, please click here](https://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2FIAmA&amp;subject=Need+Confidential+Verification&amp;message=My+AMA+needs+to+remain+confidential.%0d%0a%0d%0aMy+proof%3a%0d%0a%0d%0a%3Cinsert+proof+for+verification+here%3E)

       
If you believe you have received this message in error or have another question - [please message the mods by clicking here.](http://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2FIAmA)


*[I am a bot](/r/AutoModerator/comments/q11pu/what_is_automoderator/), and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2FIAmA) if you have any questions or concerns.* Hi Maisie,

love game of thrones! If you could be any animal what would you be and why? 

Thanks! mhm shape-shifting? i wonder what thats about :o Jesus Christ. What has been your favorite filming location of GoT? After Game Of Thrones is over where do you hope your career will go? Still work in TV or try to get into movies or something else? Hi Maisie! Thanks for doing this AMA. I just was wondering what it's like going from relatively unknown to being a star in one of the most popular (if not the most popular) show on television? Do you enjoy the fame? Hi Maisie,

Do they encourage the cast to read the books a lot or is it sort of up to yourselves? Favourite vs. Favorite

Dead giveaway What other large movie/tv franchises would you like to play a role in? you can influence or affect lots of people even though you are still young, have you ever thought why? Ehm... oooh, if I was the queen of Westerns, the first rule... I would make everyone a Wildling, because I think their costumes are really cool!

It's probably the most shallow answer *ever*, but it's true.  Do you get to keep Needle when you finish shooting a scene or does someone take it for safe keeping? Hi Maisie,

I read the first GoT book and watched the first season of the show, but to be honest, I am not a big GoT fan. I stopped after the first season/book, years ago. BUT it's always nagged at me, the question, "What happens to Arya Stark?"

Your performance in the show was great, it was one of the few things I really enjoyed. I have no question, just wanted to send some positive vibes your way. Thank you for doing this AMA, maybe I will start watching again. Alien Isolation or bust. Hi Maisie!! I genially don't have any questions but didn't want to miss out on the opitunity to congratulate you on your work and thank you for being an insperatuin to the younger generation, keep it up xx Big fan of the show, though I've stopped halfway through Season 2 so I can read the books and catch up.  Thanks for all your work.

Do you have any aspirations to go into live theatre (e.g. Broadway or West End)? Hi Maisie, massive fan of the show. Two questions: 

* How similar is Sean Bean to Ned Stark?

* Did you ever try and hold Ice? How'd that go for you?

* I've read somewhere that you prefer dancing to acting, how do the two compare to you and why do you prefer dancing? where you filming in Iceland of so how did you like the country?

btw you are a great actor :) Hey Maisie, what's your favourite chocolate bar? Good morning Maisie! What type of roles are you looking to do after Game of Thrones wraps? Also, you were the single best casting choice on the show! Have a great day! Hi Maisie! Who has been the best person on the set of game of thrones to work with and why? https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IWWkrmx0tC8
 Hi Maisie, will you and Sophie be doing another rvoiceover video with GOT theme song ?????  would you let me take you on a date if youre ever in richmond? Hi Maisie, huge fan. Two questions
 
1) Is it nice knowing your character is guaranteed to live by R R Martin's wife?

2) What has been the most awkward moment on set? (Not necessarily limited to yourself) Hey Maisie, what's the craic?

How're your parents reacting to the violent life that Arya leads, and the scenarios you're exposed to as a result? Hi Maisie!

What would you say has been the best thing to come of your role in GoT? What about the worst?

Thanks so much! Hi Maisie! Big fan of yours!!! Do you have any plans of doing movies in the future? and if there's anything you can change about Arya what would it be?

Can't wait for the new season!!!  it comes pre-mixed in already. All we do is combine flour, salt, milk and egg mix, and the original recipe seasoning it has a lot of pepper though. 
 Alright Maisie, fellow Bristolian here, I was just gonna ask what's your favourite place to hang out in Bristol and how often do you get to spend time there? Cheers Hey Maisie! I've been meaning to watch Game of Thrown for a while. Can you just tell me to watch it? There's no way I'll be able to say no to you.  Hey Maisie! Love you as Arya.
My question is: how do you cope with your popularity that came with GoT?  Yes. Will you meet me in the pit? *_* /r/gayforoberyn

It's a thing. you have worked with some youtubers but who is your favorite? Hi Maisie, I wrote you a song and was wondering if I could play it for you? Do online trolls bother you? Hey Maisie! Thanks for doing this AMA! With many characters dying on the show and actors leaving all the time, do you miss having them around the set? Who was your closest friend that got killed off in the show? It's okay, he already knows you have a crush. It is known. Is there a lot of pressure playing Arya Stark, know she is George R.R. Martin's wife's (and almost everyone else's) favorite character?

Have you read all the books? Any fear of your character getting killed off in the future? Since you've been trained in dancing, will ever do a musical?

A musical version of GOT on SNL or something would be awesome.  :p Would you rather fight 1 Sandor Clegane-sized hound, or 100 hound-sized Cleganes? Do you feel as if you will be type casted because of playing Arya?

You are awesome, and my favorite character on the show. Kirk or Picard?  Maisie, your portrayal of Arya has been a tremendous joy to watch. I really loved the scene in the last episode of Season 4. From your perspective, what was Arya thinking when she decided to decline Brienne's help, leave The Hound for dead, and head away from Westeros? Maisie, do you want to make a guest appearance on the show "Archer"?

You should, that would be awesome. -.- Hi Maisie! I have a 18 month old daughter. I was reading the latest GOT book while my wife was pregnant, and every part with Arya I found myself thinking "man I hope my daughter is like her" (except for the having a beheaded dad, I suppose). You've done an amazing job of bringing Arya to life in a way that almost perfectly matches how I pictured her in my head. I hope she gets to meet you some day.

Hrm. I suppose I have to ask a question. How about this: Why did you write the date all weird in your proof photo? =) Arya is Azor Ahai confirmed. I had pepperoni pizza for my birthday last night!  Maisie, what songs (or kind of songs) do you listen to? Hey Maisie, any new projects we can look forward to? Hi Maisie big fan here just wondering what scene you enjoyed filming the most of all the scenes you've done in the previous seasons of GoT?
 Hi Maisie, Massive fan and I loved you in Cyberbully.

My question: Which of your roles has been your favourite to play and why? Hi Maisie, recently saw you in 'Cyberbully' and I loved it... well loved is probably not the best way to describe the emotions I was feeling, more like I was freaked out for sure but I also enjoyed watching you acting through it. Anyway I was wondering to what extent you receive troll comments and how you deal with them?  I used to watch Pingu *religiously* and it's about a little penguin, and that's basically it. But then this one episode came along where Pingu lost his mother, and it basically scarred me for life, because Pingu was crying, and I was crying, and then, yeah, Pingu was never the same after that.  Hey Maisie, I'm a big fan of your work and I think you've done a tremendous job in Game of Thrones and more recently, Cyberbully!

I wanted to ask who are you closest to out of your co-actors in game of thrones?

Have you read the song of ice and fire series?

I also want to say thanks for being a great figure on twitter, I think a lot of your tweets are very genuine and real and you make a great model for teens

Thanks Maisie, love you ^^ You're cool. Can you say hi to me? Favourite beverage? Hi Masie! How does it feel having such a cult following at a young age? People will follow your work for the rest of your acting career. Has it ever been overwhelming?  Maisie, why are you so good at making vines? What's your secret? This is a game changer for me.. Maisie, why are you so good at making vines? What's your secret? Hi Maisie,

Thanks for doing this AMA!

A few questions :) 

1) What's the fastest way to get to Bravos? Me and a few friends are thinking of going there on holiday.

2) Now you've passed your driving test maybe you'd be kind enough to drive us? What car are you driving?

Also, Could we borrow your coin? :)

Thanks!
 since I'm assuming Victoria is answering....that would be Wing Roulette - although may lead to ring roulette in six to eight hours.... what is one aspect of you as an artist that the public probably doesn't know about you? ie. are you a musician? visual artist? post some links if possible? Have you read all the books?  Hey Maisie, I just wanted to know what is the biggest challenge when being a professional actress at your age? Also, what other interests do you have beside acting? 

I love your performance in GoT and can't wait to see you in the new season. Hope everything goes well c: Someday we'll fail to breathe... and all there'll be are memories Other than Game of Thrones. What are other projects you're working on or would like to work on?  Hi Maisie, Who has been your favorite cast member to work with on GOT? Please tell me you get to keep Needle after filming? What is your favourite music genre? Have you ever been listening to Green Day? She's a brit, tea without question. Hello Maisie! I'm sure you've been asked this before, but what is your favorite book and why? Thanks for doing this AMA! Can you describe to me your favorite sandwich? If you could eat anything in unlimited amounts with no health repercussions, what would it be? I know this won't get answered, but worth a shot: Which actor/actress do you most want to work with, on Game of Thrones or anything else? 

Thanks for doing this!  My wife and I just started watching GoT two weeks ago (I know, we're behind the times but we're already up to S3) and I think your character is fantastic.

That being said you were young when you started on GoT, how was it growing up in the GoT environment?

I'm also curious, working with so many seasoned actors which ones have had an influence on you? When you're in-between takes, what do you do to pass the time? Hey

is it strange to grow up with your series-family around you?

And do you have a life behind the scenes which you would like to tell a funny story from? I'd love more insight behind the scenes, I watched all Seasons up to now and I am hyped for the next one :)

 Hi Maisie. I don't know if this has been asked yet, but what do you picture yourself doing after Game of Thrones is over? 

Do you have any future plans for your acting career? Ayoooo Wololo All the time. I thought Taylor Swift's new song said "Something-something-Starbucks-lovers" when it actually said "I've got a long list of ex-lovers" and that was news to me. And I realized I'd been embarrassing myself for like 2 months! **PLEASE READ THIS MESSAGE IN ITS ENTIRETY BEFORE TAKING ACTION. ALL AMAs REQUIRE PROOF**

[Please review our guidelines on what is acceptable as proof.](http://www.reddit.com/r/IAmA/wiki/index#wiki_3._what_constitutes_.22proof.22.3F)

If you intend to submit public proof, please edit a link to your proof into your current post and [message the moderators by clicking here](http://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2FIAmA&amp;subject=Post%20Review%20Request&amp;message=I%20have%20added%20proof%20to%20my%20post,%20please%20review%3a%0d%0a%0d%0ahttp://www.reddit.com/r/IAmA/comments/2u7707/iama_latvian_ama/). This must be proof a reasonable person believes verifies your claims. The mods **strongly** encourage you to provide public proof.

If you absolutely cannot provide public proof, you can work with the moderation team to confidentially verify proof of your topic or subject. *Remember: Mod verification requires unequivocal proof*. [To submit confidential proof, please click here](https://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2FIAmA&amp;subject=Need+Confidential+Verification&amp;message=My+AMA+needs+to+remain+confidential.%0d%0a%0d%0aMy+proof%3a%0d%0a%0d%0a%3Cinsert+proof+for+verification+here%3E)

       
If you believe you have received this message in error or have another question - [please message the mods by clicking here.](http://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2FIAmA)


*[I am a bot](/r/AutoModerator/comments/q11pu/what_is_automoderator/), and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2FIAmA) if you have any questions or concerns.* Been waiting for another Game of Thrones actor for a while, and I'm amazed how you have had such major success at such a young age. You and Sophie Turner are one of few teens who have had such major success out of the millions of actors who try, which I think is pretty cool.

How do you get in the mindset of and act as a girl much younger than you actually are? Was Arya's outfit in season 4 uncomfortable? If you had a dire wolf, what would you name it? How did you end up on teens react? Who cracks the most jokes on set? Hi Maisie!

What kind of music do you listen to? Who are some of your favorite artists either popular or not very well known? I don't watch GoT so could you give me, in one sentence, a reason why I should start? Oh I'm freaking out. I love Game of Thrones and ASOIAF to the point of obsession and I've been camping her userpage waiting for this opportunity. Arya is my favorite character and I have a deep, undying love for Arya and the Hound. But I'm just a username on a website to her, so freaking out all over her comments would just be inappropriate. I'm just thankful my questions got answered :D Redditors rejoice. Thank you for doing this AMA!

How has your family viewed your success as an actress? Hi Maisie! Thanks for all your great work. Do you ever regret not having a "normal" childhood?  Maisie and Pedro, I ship that. If you were a Transformer, what would you transform into? Thoughts on Stephen Dillane?  Hi Maisy,

What festivals are you planning on going to this summer? 

You should come to Boomtown with me Hi Maisie! Big fan!

My question is since the faceless assassins are shapeshifters, and you could choose to cast any actor in the world, who would be a guest actor you would have on the show appear for an episode as one of the assassins? Tea! No milk one sugar. Just wanted to say you've become a favorite actress of mine and you seem like a genuinely nice person!  I was really pulling for you to be cast in Star Wars and I hope you have a long and successful career! Hi Maisie! After reading the books and watching the show, I think you do an amazing job as Arya! I'm looking forward to your storyline in the coming season.   What was the most difficult part about getting into Arya's character?   What is your favourite scene in the show so far (either yours or someone else's).   Thanks for the AMA!  What did you think of the episode where that woman took that poor guys food out of the freezer, and it literally ruined his entire dish? I felt so sorry for that guy, he looked really really angry. Is [this](http://s3-ec.buzzfed.com/static/2014-06/29/14/enhanced/webdr09/anigif_enhanced-28532-1404068337-1.gif) you?  The man needs his porage to get going! Hey Maisie! Which season and episode of GoT was your favorite? Also, have you read any of the books? If you could live in any fictional world, which would you pick and why? :) Hey Maisie! First off you've been doing an awesome job on Game Of Thrones, you're easily my favorite character. I just wanted to ask, what was it like filming those scenes with Charles Dance? Also what kind of stuff do you guys do to goof off on set? Thanks so much for coming to reddit!  Would you like it more if the The Last of Us project was a miniseries (let's say 4 episodes) or a film? Remember how much his dad loved to iron?  
It was a lot. He loved that shit. You've had the opportunity to travel to several beautiful shooting locations and learn several new skills.

1) What's your favorite place that you've been and why?

2) What's been the most challenging thing to learn for the show, and what's been the most fun?

Also, thanks for doing this AMA, we're huge fans of the show at my house! Take care! If you were stranded on a deserted island with 5 other people, who would they likely be? 

The six of you have to build a shelter, build a fire, and find food. By democratic vote, you're in charge.  How do you split up the work and why do you trust those tasks to those people?  What was the first big ticket item you purchased as a result of your career success? What is your favorite kind of breakfast? What has helped you to mature the most as a young actress? hey sorry another question forgot to ask, who was your role model growing up and do you still have one now? :D

Also any actors/actresses you particularly like the work of?

obviously i think you are an amazing actress and love game of thrones :D the way you play arya is just epic :D 

thanks again :D Maisie, who of all the cast is the most obsessed about the book series A Song Of Ice And Fire? Splendid  Hello Maisie.I'm a big fan, if I were to mentally send you a high-five, would you mentally high-five me back? Hi Maisie, I appreciate how dedicated you are to your role and the believability you put in your character. That being said, do you have an opinion on who will win between Brock Lesnar and Roman Reigns at Wrestlemania this year? No  Who would you pick to fight the Mountain in real life? Great! I'll take this opportunity to ask the big question everyone's got on their minds:

Will you take my hand in marriage? I will always love and cherish you : )

Sincerely,

Flight714.
 How much do you love The Hound? Did you love the House of the Undying?  Thanks for the AMA Maisie,do you have any funny or embarrassing stories about your fellow GOT cast mates? How has being a young actress working on one of the most prolific shows affected you as a person?  Hi Maisie! Such a huge fan!

What has been your experience filming as the youngest Stark? I know you and Sophie are hilarious together on Vine and whatnot, but what about filming with the Stark boys? Hello Maisie, what has been your favorite set or location to work on so far in the show? Hi Maisie! Any memorable pranks on the set of GoT? What do we say to answering this question?  Hi Masie, I love your Arya, but if you could get to perform another character on other fandom like Star Wars or Harry Potter, which one would it be? Hello Maisie, I know you are a fan of the Wombats (or at least least heard of them) what do you think of Franz Ferdinand (the band)? Are there any other movies or tv shows you wish you could be a part of? How much do you think your success in Game of Thrones will impact your auditions for future roles? I believe you really love music, so... Do you play any instrument? I got to say guitar is rather easy and it doesn't rob a lot of time, you may try it if you haven't yet. What's a typical day in Maisie's life like? Hi Maisie! Just wanted to ask what was your favourite scene to act in GoT? How quick would it have been over if Arya got to actually fight Joffrey?  What would be your dream role to play in any franchise?
 Hi Maisie! Thanks for doing this. Love your work in Game of Thrones.

Will you request to keep Needle after the show is over? Hi Maisie - what's been your favorite part of filming with Games of Thrones, either on or off screen? My favourite music... ehm... is probably like drum &amp; bass, and bass lines? And the TV I watch at the moment, I don't have a lot of time to watch TV. So probably as I said earlier, the Great British Bake-Off. I religiously watch that. Unrelated to Game of Thrones, what's one of your favourite movies?

Greetings from Argentina by the way! Who are you, child? What do YOU say to the God of death? 

(Really enjoyed cyberbully the other week btw.)

X  ...Just how "left over" is this chicken? Hey there! If you could work with any actor, alive or dead, who would you want to work with? How the hell isn't this my sigil already? Hi Maisie, have you ever pulled any pranks on your fellow co-stars? [Andrew Garfield's reaction when he finds out](http://media.tumblr.com/f92b591f9daf8cf98dc44b0b87998b86/tumblr_inline_mijuapdRjK1qz4rgp.gif) Hey Maisie! You don't know how long i have been waiting for you do an AMA i am so exited right now! 

Whats the worst injury you have had on set? if you haven't experienced one. Whats the worse you have seen on set? Also if you don't mind me asking two, what was it like working with Lena Headey, she is my favorite actress and would love to know your experience? 

 By the way i pray for you and Nymeria to one day reunite you need to just be together looking out for each other :)  Hi Maisie! I am currently writing my own Batman story which is nothing like any other. My story is very dark and complex as Boardwalk Empire and the Sopranos. So I am wondering:
Are you a fan of the hero?
Are you interested in playing a character if my story ever becomes a TV show? Maisie, I need some new music.  Who are some underground bands that you think should be known? Hey Maisie, what is your most favorite city in the world? Hey Maisie, big fan. How much of Arya's dialogue do you ad-lib? How much of the character have you made your own? Hey Maisie!

Thanks for the AMA. If you could bring any character back to life on Thrones, who would it be? And why is it Ned Stark? Hello Maisie! nice work on GoT. 
1- Did you miss Syrio Forell on set?(sorry if it's been answered!)
2- Do you carry on with you something of the show, like the coin of vhalar, or the sword hang on your room or some stark flag? lol !
3- do you like ketchup ? :D 
cheers from Uruguay! Why are you not answering my questions?  what advice would you give for a 17 year old actor who would love to be on game of thrones? ps would you be my friend i think you are the coolest person in the world sorry that sounded creepy    ?
 Hi Maisie, were you Wonka Vision for NYE? My friends don't believe me but I swear I saw you!!! Hello Maisie, 
If your hands were made of hamburgers, would you eat them? You're not truly British unless you like The Bake-off Wow
 I've recently started watching GoT and am enjoying it. What do you think you'll do after Arya? Hi Maisie,
Where is the best location you've filmed and do you enjoy the travelling aspect of your job? Did you really not know what a NES was?  Hello Maisie, will you please tell HBO that they should get the DVD s out more quickly if possible? Season 4 would have made a nice Christmas gift. Thank you,  Hi Maisie, 

Who are you? If you could trade your Game of Thrones role for a role in any other work, would you? And if so, which role? Welcome Maisie, are you up to date on the book series, or is each season a new surprise as you see the script?  Also, what is the coolest place you have ever traveled? Hey Maisie, how difficult is it to deal with when an actor you have worked with for so long leaves the show due to a character death etc? Hi Maisie!, What scene do you like the most from Game of Thrones? Khaleesi! Pingu was my childhood.

*HONK! HONK!* PC Master Race! One of us, one of us. Whats your favorite Color? Do you play videogames? I am! It's called "How to build a girl" by Caitlin Moran. 740 comments in 20 minutes? Good god. Why did you agree to do this? How many times a day on average does someone recognize you on the street? Do you embrace the kinds of attention in every day life, or does it eventually become to wear you down somewhat?  If you could be a character in any remake of a film, who would it be? 

And marmite, yes or no?  I think I read very early on that you weren't allowed to read the ASoIaF books, because of the maturity of the content. Have you since gotten to read them? Did you have the desire to? Do you enjoy them? Do you prefer working on UK or US productions? How are they different? Hey, Maisie!
Just wondering- are you going to be at the GoT expo on the 16th February?
Have a great day! You going to see Game of Thrones in IMAX? Hey! Thanks for doing this AMA.

1) what's you're favorite book? 

2) if you could play any character from that book in a screen adaptation, who would you be and why?

3) which is more of an FYI, I've told my husband that since you left home that I hope you sit on the throne. It may not be an ambition high on the list, but I think you'd be great.

Thanks again!  I'm so glad my dad woke me up this morning thinking I had school.  Can you dance? If so, what's your favorite dance move? Hiya maisie, i'm a huge fan. Have you heard of hatfilms because ie heard a rumour your a fan, and if so ever considered going on there teamspeak? Hey Maisie, really like your portrayal of Arya on GoT. Definitely one of the characters I always find myself rooting for! 

My question for you is: Besides Arya, who would you say your favorite character is in the series, and why?  I bet your parents were all upset.
"mummmmmmmm Pingus mom died!"
"What Maisie?!?"
*Tears*
Dark Childrens show. I second that! Pingu was awesome. All the best to you! Hey Maisie, do you have any rituals or habits that you perform before you shoot a scene?   Pretty sure Ted could give you a run for your money in the sleeping department. How do you like your steaks? #DoctorWhoMasterRace The u completes it.  Hi Maisie!! Thanks for doing the AMA I've always thought you are a pretty cool gal!
My question is this, who is your favourite (dead or alive) character on Game of Thrones? and who is your least favourite?
Thanks :) Hey Maisie, favourite cereal? Hi Maisie!  
I just wanted to say you're really cute and awesome.  
Cheers &gt;smarter than men

&gt;equality

mfw Did you have fun at tokyo dub last year? Hi Maisie,
How has your personal life changed since you have started acting? Do you ever have time to just be you without people bombarding you for photos or autographs. Hi Maisie!  I doubt you'll see this, because there are probably a thousand other comments for you to sift through, but, you are an incredible actress!  You do a great job of capturing Arya Stark; so much so that when I read the books, I can't imagine her looking any other way.

Would you say you feel connected to Arya in any way?  Has playing her affected your personality, or have you learned anything from her? favorite ice-cream flavor? &gt;  I like sleeping more than most of my siblings.

You like sleeping more than your siblings do or you like sleep more than you like them? O_0 do you wish you could have more scenes with the direwolf or are those just too much pain in the ass to film? you're so damn awesome Hey Maisie, just tuning in to let you know that you're doing a great job on GoT. Hum, I guess I have a question after all: What is a place you would love to visit? What do you say to the God of Death?  I've never thought of that. Holy crap.  aw You know nuthin' Oh! JOHN TUCKER MUST DIE. It's like, about 3 girls that fancy this one guy, and it's so cheesy, but I can't stop watching it, ever. If you could pick an actor/actress to join the GoT team who would it be? And who would they side with in the 7 kingdoms? Maisie, how annoying is it that GRRM is nowhere near finishing the series (including the announcement that Winds of Winter won't be release this year)? It'll be years before you find out how he finally kills your character!  Hey, Maisie. 

So happy you're doing an AMA!
I have a question but it's not very important, lol?

Back in 2013 I got tickets to a comic con in the UK which you attended, it was awesome. Or so I've heard because I missed my train and didn't get there in time.
I emailed your management (holy crap that sounds creepy reading that out loud) and then realised I was dumb because that's not the place to email? I've tweeted you a few times but I know you're totally busy!

I only really wanted to go to get your autograph but I was totally bummed when I missed my chance :(

Any sign of a UK signing coming up and/or is there any way I could maybe get that autograph on the ol' cheeky sneaky?

Thank you and again, so glad you're doing this AMA! A lot of fans are going to be happy today! :D Hey Maisie, are there any funny behind the scenes stories you can tell us? Thanks!! Ever think of getting a pet dog and naming it Rory? Sandor?

Thanks for doing this AMA
 If you like that and have an iPad check out "The Room Two" it's scary puzzle game easy to pickup during moments of downtime and can really get creepy. ah like crazy, good movie. I'm in a similar situation now, stuck in Australia while my girlfriend is in London :( Masie, being a relatively young successful actor, who or what kind of celebrity would you like to become when you're older. Alternatively, who wouldn't you want to become? Hi Maisie! Would you rather fight 100 Arya-sized Hounds, or one Hound-sized Arya? By the way, do you know where Ted's camping bag is? Favourite book (you can't say Game of Thrones!) and why? Hi Maisie! Do you prefer dogs or antelopes? Do you have any great stories from working with Rory?  Hi Maisie,  You are awesome. That is all. IRL, Would you rather own a dire wolf or be friends with Hodor? How has your experience been filming in Northern Ireland? (and everywhere else you film) Hey there, welcome! 

Thanks for doing this! 

Arya has been my favorite character since I started reading the books.. What's been the hardest part of playing her?  Hey Maisie! This is really a question, I just wanted to say you looked amazing at the SAG Awards, so much that I bought the dress you wore lol, anyways I met you in Belfast airport a few months back and you posted a pic of us on twitter, you probably don't remember but you're still my favourite hehehe  No milk? Are you sure you're English? Hey Maisie, have any fun plans for this weekend? What was it like working with the finebros?  What's your highest score on 2048? Damn, they are really rushing the series then...Was hoping the books would be stretched out a bit more but I geuss it had to happen one year that the series would catch up to the books :(  Hey Maisie, would you rather fight 100 duck size horses or one horse size duck? Keep up the good work on GOT! Cheers from Canada. What's a hidden talent of yours that would surprise most people? Do you ever walk around humming the Game of Thrones music? What is your earliest memory? Hey Maisie,
Is there a chance for you and Sophie to shout any future scenes together? Manuca honey, lemon, and hot water! Or just like, *loads* of green tea. But that's just me every day. Do you find Arya as a character annoying? I mean, I don't know if you've read the books but if you have do you find her more annoying there than how you play her? What kind of tea? Maisie, I'm a huge fan. Season 4 was incredible!

What do you think is the biggest change in your life since you got the role of Arya, especially as you got the role so young?

Thanks! Hi Maisie!  Do you have a favorite director to work with? Maths ARE awesome. I'm sad that I can't ever play that game for the first time again :( Every American on this thread is scratching their head in confusion.  Including me.  :) Hi Maisie! What's a hobby of yours that would surprise most people?  Are you aware of how popular you are on the internet?

Cheers Hi Maisie :)

Apart from ASOIAF, what other fantasy story would you most like to act in, if brought to film or TV? (can be one already done before)

Also, what fantasy world would you most like to live in? Hi Maisie! 
Whilst watching the series, do you get emotionally involved in the plots &amp; characters, like we do as viewers? 
Thanks! Hey Maisie, i'm a huge fan. But i don't have anything special to say, just came here to say hello. I'm very hyped to see you kicking some  serious assess on season 5. Are you as excited as we are to see the new season!? hey Maisie first of all hi from Bulgaria 
second what is the most motivational thing for you today ?  Hi Maisie! What was your most interesting encounter with a fan? Your scenes with The Hound were some of my favorites this season. Can you guys do a spin off comedy? Have you ever gone to DJ Hodor's Rave of Thrones?  Judging by the rate at which Martin's working, you'll probably get to act out what happens to Arya before we get to read it. Meusli. But only the special kind from Waitro's. It's like the green stuff. It has to be that one, otherwise I won't eat it. Very specific.  Oh my god, I need to know what this is from. Hey Maisie!

Have you read the GOT books? Are there any parts coming up that you are looking forward to filming?

What was your experience like filming with the "direwolves"? You are a very good dancer! How long have you been dancing? Are we ever going to see glimpses of your dancing acumen on game of thrones? 

Also for being so young and successful, how do your peers and people you've known before all of this success respond to you? 

Which actors on game of thrones do you feel you've bonded with the most? And aside from yourself, which actor on the show is the best dancer? Please tell me it's the Hound!  If you crazy Brits are going to insist on pluralizing the subject 'math', at least pluralize your verbs too My friends and I kept running into you at music festivals. Who is your favourite band and have you ever used your fame to meet anyone you were a particular fan of? Hey Maisie, which cast member (present or past) is the funniest offscreen? My money's on the Hound. That guy screams laughter. Where was the best place you got to visit while filming GoT? When you look back on your career in 30 years, what would you want to see in your life's highlight reel?  In other words, what would you like to accomplish by that age? How is the atmosphere when filming an episode? It's so vast and everything I don't even know how they logistically do it! https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ak8Cip_h8mI Not very practical for those in the south, though.  What are some of your career plans, if you have any this early on, for after Game of Thrones ends? Or even for side projects while it's still continuing. Hey Maisie big big fan of your work. There's a friend of mine who really loves you! So if you have the time could you give a shout out to Adelie like with a picture. It would mean the world to him. Also, do you like potatoes? FREEZING cold. But the people are lovely, so that makes up for it.  You like drum and bass, I see? You must like Rudimental then? Their material is so, so good. KEYBOARD SOLO!! Hello, big fan of Game of Thrones and Cyberbully, I was just wondering if you were given a role but you had to put on a Geordie accent would you be able to do it? Thanks in advance. Awesome! I love it, too. I love to say that it's Intense Baking...because it's baking in "tents!" link? I feel like she would kind of have to to get Ellie right. Or watch a walkthrough or something..  Hey Maise, do you still have sick dance moves? I'm super late to the game, but Terry, if you see this... can you PLEASE narrate the audiobook for *manhood*?!!! Damn, I asked pretty much the same question haha Hi Masie!  If you could play any role in any movie or tv show, what would it be and why?   I remember that episode. The feels on the bus go round and round Pcmasterrace confirmed  I know its not the same guy.  No milk??? Whaaaaaat  How did you end up making appearances on thefinebro's Teens React series? Who approached who? Hey Maisie! Just so you know, you are awesome as Arya. Random question: What's your favorite kind of sandwich? Maisie, did you really mean it when you said you are sorry for the music of your generation? Any parts from the books you wish they had not left out? What is your favorite food?  What does your bastard brother Jon Snow actually know? i bet Maisie has a stiffy for Smiffy. 

i know i do. Hey Maisie I would like to know how does it feel growing up around the Game of Thrones cast and seeing them and yourself progress throughout in the show and in real life?  Hey Maisie!
I was wondering, what would you like to do after Game of Thrones is finished? Do you have any plans or ambitions?
 What do you like most and dislike most about Arya as a character, and are there any characters in the show you wish she'd get a chance to interact with more often? Hey maisie! Have you heard of the R + L = J theory? 
What do you think of it? Hi. Are you single? Hi Maisie! I love your work, you're very talented. Couple oddball questions...

What's your favorite ice cream flavor? If you had to choose a 'spirit animal,' which one would you be? And do you have a personal credo, or a favorite quote that you try to live by?

Thanks for doing this AMA. You're awesome! Narp? Was it hard separating your feelings towards a character from feelings for a cast mate when filming was done? Like did you ever still feel upset at a character after the scene was done If you could play any role from any movie ever made (or not yet made), what would it be and why?

Thanks for doing this! What kind of music do you like? I'm a Brit too, but she'd say coffee because thats what all teenagers say nowadays. The ways have been lost. It would be... Halloumi Cheese, because I think it's probably the best thing that has to be invented. But it has to be grilled. It's like rubbery, and squeaky, like cheesy bacon. You should try it. It's really salty. Amazing. Hi Maisie, we met very briefly at Glastonbury festival this year. I chastised you for leaving the Hound to suffer. I just wanted to say you're beautiful haha.

My question is how have you managed to keep a level head and down to earth attitude considering how often you must get recognised?  Is there any other way? How does it feel to finally have new clothes? And what kind of journey will Arya go through this season? Hi Maisie!, Thanks for doing this AMA today!

What's/what are your favourite film(s)? Why? Yeah, they cast Mike Colter for the role. I've only seen him as Agent Locke in Halo: Nightfall (and soon to be Halo 5) and well Nightfall was pretty shit but his acting was decent. He certainly has the right look and build for the role.  Probably because he isn't supet.
 What celebrity (or celebrities) would you totally geek out if you got the chance to meet/hang out with for a day? Just wanted to say, your Arya is one of the few characters on the show that I like more than their counterpart in the books. Also, Sean Bean's Eddard!  Keep up the good work.  Look forward to the new season!  To make a question for this, have you read all the books? Hi Maisie!
I was wondering, how has your acting career changed the way (if it has) you interact with peers your age? Especially since you started your career so young?
Thanks! Hi Maisie, do you have any idea who might play Joel? Are there any actors lined up? Hi Maisie, fellow Bristolian here, where do you hang out on weekends? how do you feel being an inspiration for other teenagers to become an actor? She travels Westeros with Rory McCann. Didn't you watch the documentary? I love you.   How long does it take to shoot one episode?  Days? Weeks?  Narp Spongecake ain't no joke. Hi Maisie, there have been whispers around my Uni that you live in Bath!!
I'm currently at uni there and would like to know, how do you like the city? I've been so afraid to make you my favorite character on GoT, because everyone says that whenever you pick a favorite character, they get killed off. 

But, on to a question, out of the Stars, what is your preference, Star Wars or Star Trek? 

And have you seen that movie Whiplash? If not, you should. It's pretty crazy.  Hey Maisie!

If you could time travel, when would you go to? Favourite TV shows apart from GoT? Are you going to speak to those powerful people about Sean Bean for Joel? Weasley is our king Ignoring your smaller stature and build, if you could use one weapon in the GoT series what would it be?  Supet? Hey Maisie! Thanks for doing AMA, I'm a huge fan!
If you could play any character from a TV show, movie, video game, or comic, who would you choose? 
Thanks! Hey Maisie if you and I were dating and you were really mad at me, would you mid-sentence just spoil the show out of spite? My birthday is tomorow and I'm having pepperoni pizza tonight! I have no idea why either of our posts are relevant to anything, but happy bday and fuck yea pizza. Do you want the Hound to live?

What do you want to be when you grow up?

 1. if you could live anywhere, where would it be (besides where you live)?
2. What is your favorite song right now?
3.What is life as an actress like?
4. how many pets do you have and what are they?

Thanks Maisie :) xx HYPE HYPE HYPE I like jazz, because it doesn't matter what shape or size or length your legs are, you can use this dance to benefit you. Yeah. It's good for all shapes and sizes, I guess. Oh man, I don't have that good of a question. But I love your portrayal of Arya, she's my favorite character next to Tyrion, and seriously, YOU ROCK IT. I also read the books and as you may know, the scenes from season 2 with Arya and Tywin aren't in the books. Whatever, I think they're a great addition. Could you tell us something about these scenes? Acting with the awesome Charles Dance?  Hey Maisie, how was the audition process for your role in Game of Thrones?  What is your favorite quote/scene from the series thus far?  Hey Maisie, how hard is it for all the actors to move around in their armours and outfits? are there any funny stories of actors falling because of their armour or general shenanigans?

Also can you please tell my girlfriend that she must watch Game of Thrones!! I need to convince her some more haha thanks! Hey Maisie, what's up? Will you be doing a meetu in London anytime soon? Hi Maisie, my question is how has acting in Game of Thrones changed the way your friends in life act around you? I'm good friends with someone who played a small role in Harry Potter and he's mentioned before that it's changed the way some people treat him. Hi Maisie!
I would like to ask, what is your hidden talent? 
E.g. Touching your nose with your tongue, memorising songs instantly. Hey Maisie,

Do you play any online games and what is your RuneScape username? 

Thank You. Hello Maise, who is your favorite character in game of thrones or one that you can relate to the most? Also, what did you think of Arya and the hounds relationship towards one ankther? If you could have Arya kill anyone in the show, who would it be? She said tea though Hi Maisie! Thanks for doing the AMA.
We love you in GoT but also we really enjoyed watching Cyberbully. How did you find portraying the bully, and how do you feel about the whole Internet bullying subject? You can modify it to benefit your body type. Hey Maisie, out of all the places you have travelled for filming, what was your favorite? &gt; It means merchants no longer have to charge as much because part of their profit margin is increased because fraud is impossible.

That's why Mt Gox didn't happen! When you started working on Game of Thrones did you think it would be as successful as it has become? If you could play one other actor's role on the show who would it be and why?
 
Thank you...keep being awesome!! Pcmasterrace confirmed  Hello! Thanks for taking out some time for us. What is the funniest story you have from the set of Game of Thrones? Any actor shenanigans that you guys like to get up to?  how is it working so closely with an actor like Rory?  What is the funnest thing you guys have done on set between takes? Hi Maisie! What was your favorite scene to film in Game of Thrones? Also who is your favorite character (other than Arya of course)? Sorry if you've been asked these already. Thank you for being such a brilliant actor. Favourite place to travel to? When you started to act did you have any idea of how big it would get for you, and are you enjoying it?

Love your portrayal of the character and I can't wait for the growing badassery that you will play!  What do your parents think of you being cast in Game of Thrones?
Also, have you ever read the books? The just show up as squares... Is my computer sick? If you could be on any other show on TV right now, which would it be and why?  Do you see yourself on the Iron Throne?  Hey Maisie , I don't watch GoT , but I'm really eager to start watching it. Need your help , Name a few reasons I should watch it :] Hey there. What's your favourite music genre? Eventually; what's your favourite artist/band?  Hi Maisie! What is your favorite scene that you've done so far (not including Season 5) of Game of Thrones? You've pretty much nailed your role in GoT. So what kind of work do you want to do after it ends? What is your dream role and so are some people you would like to co-star with? 

Also I would just like to mention again that you seriously nailed the portrayal of Arya. Out of all the characters in the book compared to their actor, you match almost perfectly to how i imagined that character to be followed closely by Nikolaj Coster-Waldau. I really look forward to your upcoming scenes! Arya's story is about to get even more interesting!  Hi Maisie. Greetings from Trinidad and Tobago! If you weren't cast as a Stark, which house would you like to be in (that you think suits your personality most). He isn't called John Snow  
^Sorry Hi Maisie,

whats your take on 4chan and reddit's infatuation of you as a person and an actor? You listen to Taylor...  Just when I thought I couldn't love you more  It's spelt "Waitrose", Victoria. Hi Maisie
Regarding the Last of Us, have you ever played the game? Do you it'd make an impact on your decision playing Ellie? (Personally I think you'd be spot on!) This is a weird question but do you still have that boob shirt from the Casper Lee video? Because Supet isn't a word. Who is the best character and why is it Jon Snow? Favorite internet meme? What is your hidden talent? No? Hahaha!  Hot Fuzz, best movie ever filmed. Ice cream or cake? Which Pokemon is best, and why? Hi, Maisie! How was it to working with the Fine Bros on their React video? How did they contact you for it and what reaction did you have to actually *doing* a YouTube show, and how professional was the production compared to more mainstream media? Hi Maisie, you are awesome in GoT!

Do you find yourself using words or mannerisms in real life, that you have used in the show, because it has been such a huge commitment over the past few years?

Thanks in advance. Hi Maisie, nice of you to be here. You've said in the past that you and the other child actors weren't allowed to watch the show or read the books, have any of you guys done so yet? god bless catastrophe Hi Maisie! I'm a big fan and I was wondering do you see a bit of Arya in yourself? Also we share the same birthday so that's kinda cool  Wow, this is actually the first AMA I've actually caught on time.

From different things I've seen around the Internet Maisie, you and the rest of the cast seem to have a great time filming. Has there ever been any legendary pranks or goofs? Which is your favorite, the one you like to tell people? Do you become a ninja unstoppable assassin full of awesome? what's your favorite starter pokemon :
Bulbasaur squirtle or charmander ? It must be difficult to grow close to certain actors only to have their characters killed off. Do you have an opportunity to meet up with and hang out with the "dead" actors?  What was it like working with Natalie Dormer?

What is a movie/show you are dying to work on?

What is your favourite breakfast food?

Can't wait to see you in GoT Season 5! Hi Maisie!
I just wanted to say you're really cute and awesome.
Also, cause I have to ask you a question... What's your favorite color?  
Cheers 