[Dayton, OH](http://i.imgur.com/zoc8PnH.jpg) has a one as well. Funny how they are so similar. Don't they legally owe the vacation and sick time?  Depends on the state, they all have their own laws. Remember that aside from workers with a collective bargaining contract, no company is required to give sick time (with a few exceptions like in larger companies in California, as of 1/1/15 **EDIT** an some cities, such a Seattle) or vacation time.

In Ohio:

&gt; If the employer has a clear written policy, set forth in a manual, handbook, or elsewhere, providing that paid vacation time is forfeited on resignation or discharge, an employer may withhold unused vacation pay. It depends on their contract, there isn't a legal requirement to give sick and vacation time. If worded properly they would not have to pay for the unused time. I think it might depend on the state. In California, unused vacation must be paid upon termination.

http://www.dir.ca.gov/dlse/faq_vacation.htm Yup. When I knew I was gonna get laid off from this one job I made sure NOT to take off any of the christmas holiday period that wasn't actually given as a holiday.

I was one of the only few people in the office. HR was like "you can take the vacation days" I said "no thanks."

They fired me 3 weeks later. Would have been sooner, but I was on jury duty for a week and a half. Walked in, saw a bunch of people's desks empty, knew it was my day. Nice that was good thinking Thank god, too. Cuz I really fucked up the unemployment paperwork so I only had that extra cash and freelance hustle to survive on. Dumb on my part but it all worked out in the end.

Unless things are shitty in a couple months and im not booking anything. Then, yea i could still be getting that unemployment check. This is so terrible, especially the part about how WetSeal told them NOT to find new jobs. The lying about remodeling... How the fuck is that legal? Is severance pay optional in the States, then?  Workers really get the short end of the stick over there, it seems.  You get a week's pay (capped at 460 per week) for every year of service here in the UK (at worst). Yes, it's optional. Let the US vs European employment law pissing match commence! A pissing match usually means both parties have urine. The US is bone dry, has a bladder infection, and the company health insurance is calling it a pre-existing condition.  This shit's gold. There's no match. We get fucked in the U.S.
Europeans seem intrigued by it... I had a long conversation last summer in Slovakia about healthcare, vacation time, maternity time, etc... they really seemed to like this country despite this, but were shocked we didn't get five weeks of vacation time, and could lose our homes due to illness. They get five weeks?! As in 5 weeks paid vacation *every year*?? Yes. An example. My brother works as a lowly porter in a hospital. His boss called him into her office, told him that he had not taken his paid vacation time yet. So he had to take 5 weeks off, with full pay. He's part-time ...  I'm crying.  Let me blow Your mind a bit more. 74 weeks after You have baby. 37 for mom, 37 for dad. During that time they get 65% of their paycheck. And even employers support it. Happy employee is better employee.  "Outsourced employee is BEST employee!"

-America Welcome to modern society? This is why the American lower and middle class have it so hard: they don't even know how much they get fucked. Yeah I was manager at one of the closing Wet Seal stores. They lied to all of us through the holiday season, saying that we were low on stock because they were remerchandising for spring. 

Friday there was a conference call where they told my entire district that they were closing us down. Our DM has over ten years with this company and they basically shit on her, she was crying on the call and it made me want to punch something.  They made me fire my sales associates on Saturday.  Not a lick of notice for anyone. 

Wet Seal is a bunch of lying-ass scumsuckers and I hope they all rot for what they've done to us. I guess that was a company wide thing they were doing?
I work in a mall in Lancaster, PA and the Wet Seal there was under the impression they were going to be receiving new product. They had not even a rack of clothes left on Friday and many of my employee's tried to tell them they were closing. Then they had the conference call and never opened on Saturday. Hard to believe a company can keep their employees so in the dark about closing down.  Yeah, we were all kind of suspicious about it but every time we asked questions they were very reassuring and kept talking about all of the cute new stuff we were going to be getting. 

I don't know, I guess we all wanted to believe that they wouldn't fire us all without warning. Corporate liked to talk a lot of shit about what an awesome team/family everyone was, but they were pretty quick to just dump us when it was convenient for them. "Sorry that we're only paying you minimum wage even though you've been here for years and this is your sole source of income. That's what families do, right? Get back on there and make us some money, family! :D" No no, the resign CEO only got $800,000 severance because he's special family. Some family is more family than other family. Welcome to Olive Garden, when you're here, you're family. Unless you are actually family, then we give you a job washing dishes and take your tips. Ya know, for your family. &gt;Welcome to Costco; I love you. My wife worked at a small business and was getting pissed that they missed her last paycheck (maybe it was her last 2 paychecks, can't remember). She later found out they are closing, the owner went bankrupt, and she doesn't get paid a dime of her remaining pay. They owed her over $1000. Now that's being in the dark, she didn't have a lick of notice and got fucked with her own pay. She needs to file as a creditor to the bankrupt firm.  Employees are usually very high on the list, behind (depending on the state) the government and the lawyers.

There may be assets that can be distributed to her.  Your wife DEFINITELY needs to get herself a lawyer. The classic answer for poor people. You got screwed out of pay and have no money? You need to hire a person, or find one that will work for a hopeful payday. Good luck with your rent in a week. Bankruptcy court will take paperwork for basically no cost from people owed money. The forms are available online and can literally be filled out with a pen and mailed in or hand delivered.

I don't always agree with federal judges, but if they see an "average joe" getting screwed by a corporation, they'll get medieval on the responsible party.  I like that. I will continue to not shop at wet seal I'll boycott it as well. It's always nice when I can say that, and really mean it. I don't know if I've ever seen one, let alone been in one. I don't even know if they sell things a man would want. No clue.

Chick-Fil-A has been difficult though. My god I loved their food.

Edit: I'm amazed at how many people are angry at me for not wanting to eat at a restaurant for reasons that extend outside of food quality. This is why I enjoy Reddit though. I love how companies have time off that accrues, yet you get blackout periods before it even finishes accrual, and the time doesn't carry over to next year or get paid out.

Many large corporations do this shit and it's frustrating to no end.

If I get 2 weeks vacation, and it accrues, how do I take my 2nd week when the last 2 months are blacked out, and I don't have the hours?  Yet I can't carry it over so I just lose 13.3 hours of vacation time. I remember working retail, waiting a year to get my one week off, and then being denied... I could take a day here or there, but jesus a whole WEEK? Nope. This seems to be becoming the norm in retail. I worked for a certain Outdoor Clothing and Gear company headquartered in Seattle for almost 10 years. When I first started at least half the employees worked there because they could work 9 months a year and take a month or 2 (with sufficient notice) to go climbing/mountaineering/hike the PCT etc. They were considered assets to the company. Who better to sell backpacking equipment that a girl who could legitimately say she spent 8 weeks hiking cross country with a certain pack and it never her failed her. Slowly over time the perks started disappearing, the hardcore enthusiasts who worked there started getting pushed out and by the end of my tenure you literally could not get more than 2 days off in row (and one of those days had better not be on a weekend. 

All the new employees were seasonal college kids who didn't know shit about the gear they were selling and management complained about declining sales.

They didn't seem to understand that the only reason anyone walked into a store was to talk to people who actually knew about gear. Get rid of those people and all your customers will just order the same product from Amazon for 20% less. Retail deserves its death.  If I'm about to spend several hundred on a pack I'd want to talk to someone who has used it. How hard is that to understand? You speak the truth. There is a local gear store that I love because all of the individuals can give me honest answers and real experience with most of the gear. Not to mention the trouble caused by a failure 8 days into a 16 day trip if you get the wrong bag Besides the hassle, a bad piece of equipment can literally cost you thousands in lost vacation time, opportunity, wasted travel cost, etc... I went to Dicks Sporting Goods not too long ago looking for a bike. There was a young guy there who had no clue about any of them which isn't really his fault. After that though I stopped at a local bike store and the owner knew everything about everything. I paid a bit more but I was more confident in what I got and it's worked great. Same with a local shoe store, people who knew their stuff and properly fitted me with shoes that are so comfy they improve my mood just putting them on.  Most of the CEOs probably never seen a mountain up close, let alone climbed one. They just want the store to earn more and cost less, it doesn't matter what the place sells, so cutting vacation time makes sense to them (they are gonna move to a different company in 2 years anyway, so why learn about this one?). Companies are trying to cut costs by using these tactics in order to be profitable with online stores when in the end they are cutting out their competitive advantage to online stores by removing the one thing that made them different. Does it start with an "R" and end with an "I"?

I've noticed that the company I'm referencing ha stores that are hit or miss.  A store near me has 1... Maybe 2 knowledgable people and the rest are stock jockeys.  But a store 20 miles further is packed with knowledgeable people. I worked for REI at a store in the Midwest. I was one of the college kids that got hired. I worked cashier though and I didn't have to know much about gear even though I took the time to learn as much as I could from the regular workers who knew their shit. 

They conveniently forgot to mention to me that I was hired as a seasonal employee and conveniently canned my ass before I was about to be able to get part-time benefits along with most of the people I was hired with. Their reason was that I was not selling enough memberships even though in the time I was there the numbers showed I was just above average.

REI is a good company if you're one of the few regular workers they keep around, otherwise they ship people through every six months as seasonal employees. Sorry for the mini rant. I don't agree with them, but chic-fil-a is at least consistent in their morals.  They are closed on Sundays due to their religious beliefs that Sunday is a day for family and rest.  Presumably that hurts their bottom line, so they aren't only preaching when it helps them. And it's always on a sunday that you want chic fil a My facepalm moment was the time I went to the Chick-fil-a drive thru and was yelling at the speaker for service..... on a sunday... I'm guessing the empty parking lot and "CLOSED ON SUNDAYS" sign didn't do it for ya. This was you. 

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=KqRPOEa3P44

I know it.  If you didn't want to be publicly filmed, maybe you shouldn't have acted like a man-twat in the mall. I live in the south... chik fil a's business has probably quadrupled since the crap went down a couple years ago Yup! I see a line around the store for breakfast, lunch, and dinner on a daily basis. Teenage girls clothing. No point in ever shopping there. I didn't even know it was a store until right now.
 My wife had worked at our local Wet Seal for almost 10 years working her way up to SM (Store Manager) around October 2013. By March 2014, her Co-manager (basically number 2 in charge) was fired, and the assistant (number 3 in charge) quit for a better job. She worked until June without a day off. Couldn't use vacation, and the company was super slack at hiring new managers. She quit in June when she found out the district director wasn't interviewing the people she found to replace the people she was missing and wasn't doing anything to help her. Fuck Wet Seal. 

EDIT: a word How has \#ClubWetSeal not taken off as a hashtag?

**EDIT:** [We did it, Reddit!](https://twitter.com/hashtag/clubwetseal?f=realtime&amp;src=hash) Seriously though, I should make sure to use these powers for good in the future. So bad, but so good. I think I internet love you. And I internet love **you**, random citizen! Oo, nice, [here take this](http://i.imgur.com/fI6rDKl.gif)  This is also happening in [Birmingham, Alabama](http://www.reddit.com/r/wow/comments/2reg99/wet_seal_in_birmingham_alabama_also_expressed/), [Dayton, Ohio](http://www.reddit.com/r/dayton/comments/2rc7dj/looks_like_wet_seal_at_the_dayton_mall_is_closing/) and [Dublin, Ohio](http://www.reddit.com/r/pics/comments/2rc50i/wet_seal_store_in_my_local_mall_mall_at_tuttle/). Interesting.  I saw in the Seattle thread that their shitty stock is trading at 7 cents a share, down from just under $3 a year ago.  So I guess this is their attempt at reshuffling the deck chairs on the Titanic.   Circuit City did the same thing.  They closed about 20% stores in the first round of closings.  6 months later the rest of them went out after the holiday season. Don't remind me. I'm a college graduate with a full-time, salaried position and I'm still making less than I did when I worked for Circuit City. I miss that place. I'm a customer who far preferred CC over Best Buy. I miss that place :(. Especially now if I want to buy at a store that's not a bit of a drive from me my choices are Best Buy or Walmart. I really don't like shopping at either (and flat out refuse to give BB money but I also try to avoid Walmart too). I always feel I'm spoiled by having a Frys nearby for when I need to look at some hardware in person. I envy those who live near a micro center. Its liquidation. They need the money from their inventory and assets. If they do keep any resemblance of the business alive it'll only be because they believe they can sell it to someone else who mainly wants the branding and already has the man power to open those stores back up basically overnight. Whats great is that the story about the B'ham closing is in the WoW sub. Hey, Garrosh has to get his going out clothes from somewhere. Garrosh' shopping list:

-lettuce

-milk

-new shoulderpads for going out

-axe cleaner for dad

-abrogator stones x 125 Hahaha. /r/wow is 100% the wrong subreddit for that post. Leave it to the guy from Alabama to post it to the WOW sub  Maybe he meant to post it and be like "Wow, this sucks!" Here is a whole album of these across the country.

 http://imgur.com/a/BTquI Original: http://www.reddit.com/r/Seattle/comments/2rcr0z/today_at_northgate_wet_seal_having_some_problems/

EDIT 1: Saw elsewhere that in WA state wage theft is ~~triple~~ treble damages and in Seattle law you must pay unused sick time.  

* EDIT 7: Thanks /u/odh1412 for **[finding the RCW statute on this](https://www.reddit.com/r/pics/comments/2refm0/employees_leave_a_protest_sign_at_failing_wet/cnf8n0u?context=3)**: http://apps.leg.wa.gov/rcw/default.aspx?cite=19.86.090

EDIT 2: Made local news, on a statewide news network. This means it WILL be on midday and evening news in all likelihood, and there's zero chance the state and local elected officials (including the state Attorney General and the City Attorney) won't hear about it: http://q13fox.com/2015/01/05/former-employees-reportedly-post-giant-sign-in-window-before-leaving-failing-seattle-wet-seal-store-photo/

EDIT 3: Contact page for the State Attorney General, for queries about wage theft: https://fortress.wa.gov/atg/formhandler/ago/ContactForm.aspx

~~EDIT 4: Contact page for the City of Seattle Attorney's office, for queries about non-payment/theft of sick leave, which by law employers must provide in our city since 2012: http://www.seattle.gov/law/contact.htm~~

* EDIT 6: Thank you /u/immortalbeloved for **[finding this, I was misinformed](https://www.reddit.com/r/pics/comments/2refm0/employees_leave_a_protest_sign_at_failing_wet/cnf8dyo?context=3)**:

&gt; **Are employees compensated for unused paid sick/safe leave when they leave their job?**

&gt; No. An employer is not required to pay for unused paid sick/safe leave upon an employees
termination, resignation, retirement or other separation from employment.
Source: http://www.seattle.gov/civilrights/documents/pdfFAQPSL122111.pdf

(And that's a really shitty exemption in our local law that needs to be struck off)

EDIT 5: And international news: http://www.businessinsider.com/wet-seal-workers-leave-a-sign-2015-1 Holy crap.  This is their stock performance.

http://i.imgur.com/C8E9mt8.png Trading below one dollar for more than ninety days requires that the stock be de-listed. Once that happens, it will be an OTC penny stock, and pretty much worthless.

EDIT: It's a little more involved than just a flat ninety days. The must be out of compliance for thirty days before the ninety days starts. Then, after those ninety days, they are given another week before being de-listed. They must be within compliance for ten straight days during the ninety day period to be removed from the list and return to normal status.

EDIT 2: [The NASDAQ Noncompliant Companies List](https://listingcenter.nasdaqomx.com/NonCompliantCompanyList.aspx) Except to guys like Jordan Belfort. "Let me tell you about this amazing opportunity that just came across my desk.  It's called Wet-Seal."

"The shitty clothing store???"

"Yes, the clothing store, but hear me out.  They have been having some legal troubles in the news that is expected to be resolved within the next month.  They also have a new line of clothing designed by the famous Sure-Dan Bealafonte.  

So if Wet-Seal's shares rise to only a dollar, and by our research, they could go much higher than that, your profit on a mere 3,000 dollar investment would be upwards of 50,000 dollars." That's right, you could pay off your mortgage You show me a pay stub for $72,000, I quit my job right now and work for you. Hey Paulie, what's up? No, everything's fine. Hey listen, I quit! Don't tell Susan, it's none of her fucking business.  Let's go smoke some crack out back and celebrate! Get the ludes!! But it's been under since September 2nd when it was $1.05 and now trading at $0.06, so... already pretty much worthless.

There's not a lot of people lining up to short this for a 5 cents margin and no one is buying. The last major activity was on Dec 11th, when 20M movement brought it down from $0.27 to $0.08.

It's on life support already. I might buy 100 shares for 7 bucks just in case they rebound. The transaction fee will be more than the cost of the stock.  Might as well just blow 50 bucks between transaction fee and the stock.  

 Good guy OP In this case reposting is good regardless because the whole point is just exposure. My dad calls this store Moist Walrus. daaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaad I love the Internet because 20 years ago companies could do shit like this without any consequences. Today, there's at least a chance the company will have to address this in order to avoid the negative publicity and backlash if the story gets out  It's up to us to make the story viral. With many many clickbait websites going to Reddit (especially/r/pics) for story ideas, it won't be too difficult for this to go viral. Either Huffpost or Buzzfeed will have a story on this within a day. Have you ever heard of warhammer?

I'm on the warhammer sub. And we figured out that another internet site was taking our hottest 25 posts every 4 hours for their page. It was an automated bot, so the warhammer mods decided it was appropriate to use "X punts children" or "X slave employs midgets to reach high shelves" or the like in our titles. You could browse this stealing site and read all of those. It was hilarious to see the posts they stole criminate themselves. This scheme is hilarious! I couldn't believe what happened next! X website hates him! Was on the frontpage two months ago. [link](https://www.reddit.com/r/bestof/comments/2kbvr5/rwarhammer_mod_notices_that_a_website_now_two_is/) A store closes down, find out what their employees thought, #4 was my favourite  #3 will change your life forever  And of course, they will cut up the image into 10 parts and have you click through them, refreshing the page every time, effectively giving them 10 times the ad revenue. You can click the button on the ads to report the site for this. Most ad sites will fine or shut down revenue for their adds because click-bait refreshing doesn't benefit them at all, and is often a breach of the terms and conditions to collect revenue on the ads to begin with. 

 TIL. That makes a lot of sense really. So one way or another I'm clicking those fucking ads then? Shit. Nice try, crafty Internet advertiser WHO DOES #2 WORK FOR?!^NotwetsealIhope... I am not a number! I am a free man! I'm ready to see this exact title in my Facebook news feed tomorrow. You have my upvote. Use it for good. [deleted] letters "everything that has letters" helter skelter z a x h s j d n f m c i o e p t l v

 z a x h s j d n f m c i o e p t l v

dramatic reading: http://www.existor.com/ Must be fun at the post office.  "Sir, that button only calls the elevator. No, I have no idea what an 'upvote' is." Somebody call that Forr Chan guy. http://i.imgur.com/gWngBjI.gif At 2.5k upvotes in an hour, it's doing pretty good.  Superman does good, this does well. This do good well Wet Seal is a financial mess, and was found guilty of racial discrimination in 2013.





Best to stay away from that company, let it waste away. Maybe they should "dry" the seals before selling them? Perhaps that would stop their sliding business model? [deleted] Give this man his 16 cents! Wet Seal wasn't found guilty of discrimination. They agreed to pay a settlement of $7.5 million to settle the case brought against them.

A settlement isn't an admission of guilt and doesn't mean the party did anything wrong. Typically a party will settle because it is cheaper than continuing the case. Many times it boils down to how much settling will cost versus the cost of going to trial.

Source: http://www.latimes.com/business/la-fi-mo-wet-seal-naacp-lawsuit-20130509-story.html http://www.huffingtonpost.com/2012/07/12/wet-seal-sued_n_1670003.html




Wasn't isolated to single store.




BTW - looks like they're headed for bankruptcy
http://racked.com/archives/2014/12/23/wet-seal.php
 But I hope nothing bad happens to the employees that are working there.

edit: I guess I just have a paranoia of companies' immorality. Other than being fired you mean.... Yeah not much else the company can do to you other than exactly what they were going to do anyway. You might as well seize the moment to raise an issue like this and show what a horrible company they have been.  Not much the company can do except maybe take the sign down Even if this becomes viral it will usually lead to nothing at all. People will still buy stuff there and will not care about the conditions of the employer.

As long as the prices are good, people will buy that stuff. Many products that we have in developed countries come from places where people are basically slaves that produce those goods, and nobody gives a shit about it as long as they can buy their cheap products.
 long term employee's without raises is extremely common unfortunately. I still work part time in retail, but only because I have been there since before a pay freeze. A lot of very hard workers trying to get by for $8 an hour &gt; A lot of very hard workers trying to get by for $8 an hour

In high school I worked as a dishwasher at Cracker Barrel. I made $7.25 an hour. I can't imagine trying to make ends meet on that and that was **FOURTEEN YEARS AGO**. Also, Cracker Barrel has a consistently-applied advancement system (the stars you see on people's aprons) that gives decent raises on a reasonable schedule. And their barrels are second only to their crackers.  Once my husband and I were at a Cracker Barrel and we asked the waitress about her stars. She said "That's my smartness."   I think, what, like 9 years ago, 2006, the federal minimum wage was $5.50. I think I made enough money to pay for gas and the shit car I had on my part-time job during highschool and that was it. I basically had a job to pay for my car to get to my job. I think about how much time I wasted for wanting to work then.

E: Federal minimum wage 2006: $5.15 You just blew my mind.

I never thought about it that way.

In High School, bought a $1,500 car in 1991. Drove 30 minutes to and from a landscaping job to make $4-$5 an hour, job was taxed.

If I had to cover my car insurance I bet I didn't make ANY money I still work retail just out of college and only make 7.75 an hour. This exposure might make this one company change some policies for a while until the public gets distracted by another news story, but the real problem lies with how these big businesses own or government and get to write the rules on fair p(l)ay. What's a raise? I'm going on 8 years without one. .. but with the destruction of unions and nation and industry wide pay cuts, i can't replace my job with a better paying one. But hey, those on top got a raise because of our hard labor and pay cuts so it'll trickle down.  Wet Seal Dayton Mall, saw this yesterday
[Imgur](http://i.imgur.com/TH4OgCL.jpg) [Jan 2nd article on Wet Seal's financial situation - Bloomberg](http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2015-01-02/wet-seal-says-it-received-default-notice-on-27-million-in-notes.html)  

Looking at yahoo finance, their stock price has been below $1 since September, meaning they will be delisted from the NASDAQ soon. Heading for a bankruptcy very soon.  
[Fly you fools](http://i.imgur.com/zCZLR1n.jpg) I work in one of the Wet Seal stores this is happening in and it's awful! Our sick time is not "given" to use, we have to accrue it like vacation days. My staff was given 24 hours notice before their last shift and my assistants and myself are having to work in the store by ourselves so corporate can avoid paying out extra money to associates. I also have an associate in my store who has been with me for over a month, her pay card was not activated by corporate and when we called about it we find out the lady in charge of that department had taken a vacation and literally tons of other girls were not receiving money on their pay cards either. This whole situation is crappy for all people on the bottom of the totem pole and I'm honestly just glad to be done with this company.  &gt; my assistants and myself are having to work in the store by ourselves so corporate can avoid paying out extra money to associates.

Why not just lock the doors and leave? You're next. The writing is on the wall. Failure to pay salary is a crime - it's called wage theft.  If Wet Seal is going through bankruptcy, employees are high on the priority list.

You, and your employees, need to make sure you reach out to the bankruptcy administrator handling the company's bankruptcy.  That'll be in whatever district they filed. Same story here in [North Carolina](http://imgur.com/j8b4jHn).  I know a store manager over there who has been told nothing but lies over the last month when questioning why their store wasn't receiving new inventory.  Classy company.   That's pretty fucked up. Not getting paid for your sick leave is par for the course... Most retail employees don't even get paid sick days. A $95,000 raise for the CEO is legitimately undetectable in terms of corporate cash flow. That being said, giving your employees one day to find a new job is absolutely awful. My girlfriend was a manager at Borders, the book store, when before they went bankrupt. The employees were strung along for quite some time, but eventually they came clean and said "we're closing in 3 weeks, liquidate everything". Most of the employees stayed during that time because it was pretty much the easiest retail job they could ever have for 3 weeks. "What're they gonna do, fire me?" When my local Borders was closing, they put up a sign that said

**No Restrooms.  
Try Amazon.** Just pointing out that I can buy books on Amazon from the comfort of my own toilet?  Which is far cleaner than a Border's bathroom?  Sold! That's why you start looking as soon as things start going sour.  Company loyalty is a thing of the past. Why would anyone want to loyal to companies that treat them as disposable  
Would I ever leave this company? Look, Im all about loyalty. In fact, I feel like part of what Im being paid for here is my loyalty. But if there were somewhere else that valued loyalty more highly Im going wherever they value loyalty the most.


\- Dwight Schrute  &gt;  Company loyalty is a thing of the past.

Loyalty is still a thing, it all depends on the company though? Has your company treated you well historically, given you challenging work, and maybe (gasp, it does happen!) gone above and beyond to make you feel valued (and not just a thank you card, a bonus or extra vacation time, something like that)?

A lot of companies treat employees like replaceable cogs, those ones hardly deserve your loyalty. The ones that treat their employees like valued assets they don't want to lose? Different story. tl;dr: Loyalty should go both ways. Don't be loyal to someone who won't be loyal to you. I too was a manager at Borders and there was nothing easy about the liquidation. In fact it was terrible. Huh, my girlfriend talked like it wasn't bad at all. She did recall a few horror stories about having to inventory individual pens or chocolate truffles or things of that nature, but that's about the only awful part from what I was told. Sorry that it was awful for you. :( I grew up in a very liberal town who had major issues when Borders first moved into town. Windows were broken, threats etc when the store opened. I worked at that store for nearly 7 years, and post-liquidation every awful characteristic of retail customers comes out.

That freedom that you speak of goes both ways, I was told to my face multiple times that people were happy that I was losing my job. I had to comfort multiple employees who were not only losing their jobs but were being treated like garbage. People would tell us things like "why do you care, you're loisng your job." Or just ask very personal questions. I was denied my severance package, vacation, etc. Police arresting employees for massive stealing during liquidation. A new co-worker that you enjoy walking out each week in tears. Even my retention bonus was significantly less then I was promised. Sure the work was easy, but it was psychologically difficult to go to work. Bookstores are all about the environment, and as soon as those liquidation signs went up, it was no longer a bookstore. 
 Funny, I live in Ann Arbor, MI, which is also a very liberal city.  But it's also where Borders was founded and the headquarters was located.  When they went out of business people around town were pretty sad about it.

To the people in your town it was a soulless corporation, to us it was a local business.

 Oh my... That sounds truly awful. I am very sorry to hear that. I do not believe that my girl's experience was anything like that.

If I may ask, why did your liberal town take issue with Borders..? Probably because it's a big chain bookstore and they like their small, independent bookstores in town better. Which is still an awful fucking reason to be an asshole to employees.   Borders was great for our podunk town, since rednecks aren't exactly the best at keeping open small independent bookstores. Care to explain? I helped close down one of the ATL stores as a cashier/ stocker and enjoyed the hell out of the last few weeks. I can imagine that it was pretty stressful to be a manger but seeing as how the liquidators made most of the decisions at that point I not really sure how bad it was for yall. My partner works for H&amp;M. He's a 5 year employee. He now has 5 weeks vacation, 14 days 'personal' time and healthcare for both of us (domestic partner insurance) that costs less that $50/month with a tiny deductible. I've worked for Apple, Samsung and Canon. I've never had benefits as good as he gets. 

Just chiming in to say retailers can do right by their people.  as a stocky 30 year old male, I will be sure to never shop there again. From someone who is ignorant, why are so many Wet Seal stores closing?
 I mean they sell overpriced cheaply made clothing that is usually not up to date with the styles that are currently in fashion.  It was only a matter of time. You can get the same looking clothes at Walmart  So it's a mall version of Walmart Walmarts started to try and step up their game in terms of chlothes the past few years. It went from really bad shit to hey that shits not that bad. I believe they are filing for Bankruptcy. Probably because they named their franchise *Wet Seal*. Because Forever21 got more popular. Forever21 is a massive gap in quality of style.

Regardless of if you like it or not, Forever21 is either A) on trend or B) setting trend.

Wet Seal was never doing either of these things. It was always ~6-12 months, or more, behind.

Also, Forever21 can be *shockingly* affordable. Yeah, it's not made well, and it probably has shady workings behind the scenes, but at the face of it in America, they're not even comparable. Good for them. I have no idea what Wet Seal is but good for them.  Seal lubricant retailer. Its important to keep seals well lubricated, but I much prefer to spend my money at local, mom &amp; pop marine animal lubricant stores. Yes its a little more expensive, but the quality is often better than the big box lubricant stores and they treat their employees decently (unlike Wet Seal as evidenced by this pic). A month with no check, commendation to the person who didn't burn that building to the ground. Shitty ass corporations man. I worked at a pizza hut a few years back and they told us the store was going to eventually close, but never gave us a date. So I stroll into work one day and find the store locked, and closed signs all over it. Not even a call. Good riddance. 

I hope those poor employees find something else. A place where they aren't so much screwed over.  I worked at Burger King during college. Went on winter vacation (with the manager's okay--the whole town was the college) thinking I'd still be working when I got back. I hadn't heard what my work schedule was so on my way back into campus, I stopped by the BK and it was closed for good. No notice or warning or anything. This happened to my mom.  She was the store manager for years for BK and one morning she shows up to find chains on all the doors and windows blocked over.  Closed permanently.  It was a huge problem for her, but the very worst was when she was standing there in disbelief and one of the employees, a young handicapped man who had been working there for years, showed up to discover he no longer had a job.  My mom said he cried and cried and there was nothing she could really say or do but send him back home on his bike. That's so sad.  My company's CEO got a $3mil raise last year while we were in financial hardship. Sounds like a good negotiator.  We should probably give him a raise They are lucky all the employees did is make a sign, and not just take turns shitting on the floor before walking out Going to be a tough week for Wet Seal's social media team...if they even have jobs anymore. That's funny because here in Illinois, a friend of mine showed up to work at wet seal, and without notice, no one ever came to open it. Apparently they went out of business and gave the employees NO notice. So now,she has no job and never had an to look for one while still working.  ACTUALLY NOT FUNNY AT ALL, ACTUALLY IS VERY SAD. :-( I have a friend who was asked to relocate for this company to a "successful store" to be the new manager, has been at that location for less than 6 months and was told exactly this sign immediately after Christmas along with all the other employees, giving her 6 days to find another job or interview at her old store 4 hours away.  

Edit: A Words

 Retail management is pretty awful in the first place.

My wife briefly managed a Hess station. As a salaried employee, she did the math and determined that she made less per hour than the people she managed. Yeah, it is because they make salary people work over 40hrs, 50-60 is standard practice.

It is a way to skirt the overtime laws. A certain "Famous" BBQ place did something like this to us a couple years ago.  Took us upstairs Friday at noon, said we were locking the doors and you don't have jobs anymore.  This was right at the end of the month, when rent and bills were due the next week.  There were employees that had been there for 10 years and all they got was a kick in the ass on the way out.

I've never eaten at any location of theirs since.  

Fuck you, Dave. Some corporations are heartless, and then some other corporations are both heartless and **dumb**. Worked for 2 large retailers that went under, with one being liquidated before closing. When the new merchandise stops coming in, despite what management is claiming, start exploring your options.

Signs that I noticed:

1. shelves started to look bare
2. special/custom orders stopped
3. receiving guys start to notice and rumors spread from there
4. managers who care about their employees looked stressed
5. private security gets hired - the real shady stuff happens when people have nothing to lose

 I can understand if the company was going under and the employees got screwed, but what gets me is the "CFO getting a raise".  What for? It sure as hell isn't performance, considering that company will be bankrupt in a few months. ----E

----E

----E


**Pitchforks for sale! **


I'm totally first to market, going to make a killing $_$ I'm selling cheap Chinese knock off pitchforks, you'll go out of business unless you cut the pay of your pitchfork makers!

---E  
---E  
---C  
---L  
---I  

(No returns) I'll have one ---C please! Here you go!

---D  
 Thats clearly a shovel.  You should spend tens of thousands of dollars on flights hotels and translators to discuss order mix ups and product quality with your factory (which they will then continue to get wrong.)

And then when that still doesnt work you should a hire a team of people to oversee your production under the guise of "Technical Engineering Support." Each of whom you will have to pay two or three times what you would pay an American (Or British, Or Canadian, Or whatever nationality you happen to be) factory worker because you're sending them abroad. Oh, and dont forget to pay for their lodging and meals and travel expenses as well.

And then when that still doesnt work you should pay a lot more money to research other factories and transfer production.  And then you can start the cycle all over again.

But I promise manufacturing in China is still cheaper and better though! Haven't you seen the video? The Chinese shovel also can be used as a pitchfork! I see you've dealt with Chinese manufacturing before... I was part of the "Technical Engineering Support" team...

Nothing like spending 12 hours a night in a Chinese shoe sole factory...  Wanted the C, got the D. Classic bait and switch.  We use a ---C to grab the potpies at /r/kfc You can play shuffleboard with it after you're done using it as a pitchfork! Themed pitchforks. 4 for the price of 3, one for each hand/foot.

----S

----E

----A

----L 90% less lead than other Chinese competitors! ill have one ----L please! Here you go!

---O I'll take the ---I and tie some rocks to it and now I have a shitty battleaxe. ---I works better as a warhammer. ---&lt; -|___+=
-|___+=
-|___+=

.... I have no idea what I'm selling... Half off. It's even funnier because he messed up the syntax, but here's what was intended (looking at the source):

-|\_\_\_+=  
-|\_\_\_+=  
-|___+=   I was going to edit and fix it... but the result was decent enough. *shrug* That's the sort of half-assed attitude that I can get behind in a business man! Fraydnot Enterprises: "Fuck it" ergonomic pitchforks with port &amp; starboard attachments I'll take seventy!  Well I'll have one  Build-a-pitchfork! Low low price of less than the other guy! I take lungs now, gills come in two weeks Half off crucifixes? I'm in! ----E ----E

----E ----E

----E ----E

*Black market pitchforks for sale! Just as good as the real thing at half the price, and double the portion!* ---- ----  
---- ----  
----F ----  
---- ----  
  
*Foreign and used pitchforks! Get your foreign and used pitchforks here!* I like to believe the Nazi one spins and the Roman numeral floats. How much for the sigma one? Overstock on sigmas! Only four karma a-piece Ooh! How much for the diphthong one?  Oooooo, that one was hard to come by. Going to have to do 35 karma for that one. Aw, no ---- well you can just go fuck yourself Left facing pitchfork?? GET THE FUCK OUT --- stabby stabby Ow, quit it no hey you want a gift?

--- stabby stabby Is that a Hindu swastika pitchfork, or a Nazi swastika pitchfork? Uh... Hindu. Damn. You ALMOST had a sale. Oh, uh actually I mean it's a ninja star pitchfork I don't know, they look too foreign and vintage, so must be expensive. Chinese one is cheap and good for the one day I'll need it.

----E The swastika one looks like it's DUN DUN DUN DUUUN "the more you know" except for hitler.   Ninja Hitler /r/ninjahitler FUcking hiupster. ---iE

---iE

*iForks here. A little smaller but there are fewer of them so you had better start lining up now! Only twice as much as those other clunky pitchforks!* ----[ ----[

----[ ----[

----[ ----[

*Refurbished pitchforks for sale!  Costs 1/5 of retail!* Ah the American way. Half the price for double the portion. There's a correlation here... The Jos A. Bank way.  "And if you picked up this suit today you could have another four just like it."

"I've told you, I'm just here for a tie!"

"I'll throw one of those in too. We have a promotion."

"That suit is just four loosely associated threads and a neckerchief! The threads don't even match!"

*waves hands* "Free."

*sighs* "Take my money." o-{===&gt;

o-{===&gt;

o-{===&gt;


Swords for sale! Far more effective than Pitchforks! o=}~~~~~   French rapier DLC coming soon SWEET SWORDS! 3==D

Erm..Shovel for sale? Yeah, lets say shovel. Come check it out.  It's OBVIOUSLY a double-ended shovel-fork. &lt;( ' ')&gt;c=={=====&gt;

Here's Kirby with a sword!  #ForgetBoatCat #BoycottBoatCat

-Unused vacation &amp; sick time unpaid

-One day's notice to find new jobs

-"Financial hardships" but BoatCat gets raise!!!1

-"Celebrate success"? This Redditor has 3+ years as #1 pitchfork salesman ----&gt;

----&gt;

----&gt;

*Pointy sticks for sale!* You bastard! I've been making pitchforks for you for the past decade, never even taking a sick day, and then you lay me off and shut down my workshop?? Just as demand is finally picking up? You have just lost your last scruple. Seriously, a bunch of employees work somewhere for years, it cant be that bad. You don't stay somewhere that doesnt treat you decent. The fact they would try to hashtag something in protest just makes them look stupid.  ***Will Finance Pitchforks***  
  
No credit check needed.  
  
^^^^^^^^^30% ^^^^^^^^^APR technically, those are tridents. pitchforks typically have four points. three points = trident.  You know... You can make more profit on those pitchforks of you don't pay your employees sick time, lower raises, and really bad hours. Deleted Rest of the country:

"What the hell is Wet Seal?" I hope it's not like a loose seal.  Those things are dangerous. As you can see from the image, there are clothes for sale. Yeah, but I'm not interested unless there's a sale going on.  I live about as far away from this as it's possible to be and still be in the 48.  We've had Wet Seals in every mall for as long as I can remember. Looks like [you're right](https://www.google.com/maps/search/wet+seal+locations+usa/@38.6431596,-98.5607363,5z). I guess I just live under a rock.  I was gonna say we have one in Kansas, but business wise I think it's actually doing fine. Is it the #1 YTD in district?  To be fair, I live in Seattle and have never heard of it either before today. It could also be because neither of us are teenage girls.  I haven't been in a mall in over 10 years, but as a kid, 1 of the 2 local malls had a Wet Seal.  At the time it was a sort of trendy type clothing store for girls/teens. As someone who lives in another country  this is a valid question Have you ever been inside of a mall? I haven't been to the mall as a shopper in a long time.  Anything I want there I can get cheaper online.  And it's a trend a lot of us are following, as the local mall is now a goddamned disgrace.  No music stores, no toy stores.  It once had TWO gamestops, now zero.  The Sears closed.  Any locally owned businesses closed.  The only stores left are big-brand giants like Kohl's and Dick's.

I've been there once or twice over the past 3 years to use giftcards.  We had a waldenbooks, that closed and was purchased by Borders.  We all know how Borders turned out and that was purchased by Books-A-Million.  Same old pushy sales tactics and they're now closed too.  No more book store for the area.

TL;DR:  I for one welcome our Amazon Prime overlords. If you're talking about Kohl's, Dick's and Sears, I don't think what you're referring to is a proper mall.

A mall is one structure. With a roof. And stores inside of it. Like Wet Seal and Hot Topic. Not a strip mall.

Source: grew up near [Paramus, NJ](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Paramus,_New_Jersey#Commerce) Yeah, I'm talking an actual indoor mall with sunlights and a food court and fake potted plants and a fountain.  Kohl's, Dick's, and Sears attached.  Sears and Kohl's had/have outside and inside entrances, Dick's is only accessible from inside the mall.  Sears was there since before I can remember and closed 2 years ago.  Kohl's took over a department store that went out in the 90s.  Same with Dick's. Was it Bradlee's? I remember Bradlee's. You win!  Bradlees was split into Ross and Dicks.  Old department store called Hess's became Kohl's. What is... mall?  Have a look at Wet Seal's Facebook page - all the recent posts to the company's wall or whatnot are about this and similar happenings. excellent, I wouldn't have posted the link either Thanks for posting a link you dick.  Now I have to go find it and post the link for everybody.

Edit:  here you go [Wet Seal Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/wetseal) Poor, tragic you. Where do teen girls shop now?? I'm only 10 years out of high school, and the stores that I liked to shop at then are disappearing - Wet Seal, Delia's - I'm sure there are others that have gone away as well.  I think Rue21 and Forever21 are both still going strong. Is Delia's gone? I still have a pair of jeans from them about 8 years later. Yup!
http://www.teenvogue.com/fashion/2014-11/delias-going-out-of-business

 Oh wow! I remember the day when that was one of the only places I shopped!
 Delia's clothes got so much worse as time progressed. [Delia's Gone](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Y1iKEPzF1Js&amp;feature=player_detailpage#t=17) Crazy. We never had a physical location near us, but I was obsessed with shopping from their catalog.

Godspeed, monument to my awkward middle and high school years. Godspeed. Delia's is out the door. The one in our local mall has everything 50% to 75% off. They've been flooding it with merchandise, they're really trying to get the most out of it they can. They are selling all of their inventory for really cheap though. Online and in the stores that are left Do high school girls shop at Forever21? Every time I've walked by one, it's full of late 20 and 30 somethings. Yes, they do. For the most part I do see 20s/30s but I have been knocked over by teens before in their stores.  If 30-somethings are still shopping at forever21... I don't even know what to say. I assumed it was mostly 15-23ish? I don't think I've been inside one since college. I think its' H&amp;M and Forever 21 now.  I do like H&amp;M! 

I've also read that Abercrombie is suffering, which was also popular when I was in middle and high school.  My parents would never let me shop there because it was so expensive. I bought a t-shirt there once with my own money, and my dad made me take it back.. Great dad Me either! A simple t-shirt was maybe $28 back then - far too much for my family. I would look, but I could never get anything there.  they just recently agreed to take the logos off their clothes. that was part of the problem I think Can't remember if it was abercrombie or that bananana republic store but I went in once at the mall &amp; the staff made fun of me &amp; my friends for "trying to be cool by shopping here"  :(  Probably like 9th grade.  :( I shop at Banana Republic occasionally now that I am grown and need more professional clothing, but I've never had an experience like that there.  Forever 21, Charlotte Russe. Things like that Ah, yes. The mall I frequented the most did not get a Forever 21 and a Charlotte Russe until after I graduated high school. 
 Can confirm - I have packages from Charolette and Forever 21 on my counter right now. Love those stores!  Forever 21, victoria's secret, etc. I mean not that I would know. H&amp;M, forever 21, and  charlotte  rusee Forever 21 is the main one.  Stores like american eagle and hollister that used to focus on all the branded tee shirts and hoodies are starting to go away from that and do non-logo stuff.  H&amp;m is also pretty popular with the older teen crowd, and the younger teens are more into Aeropostale, which is also moving away from all the logo stuff.  Also Victoria's Secret PINK is everywhere.  I've seen girls like twelve years old wearing the stuff.  Personally I always just wore stuff from the department store that I worked at and used my discount.

Source: last year was teenage girl.   Good to know. I feel less out of the loop. Anywhere where the clothes are cheap, trendy, made in China, and disposable as a paper towel. That exactly describes F21.  Forever 21 and H&amp;M are still doing really well. Wet Seal and Delias was the big thing when I was in high school, but their clothes were always expensive for a teenage budget. When forever 21 opened, it was like a god send because we could finally afford fashionable stuff built on the same quality as this place. Probably Hot Topic, but maybe that's about to go out of fashion too. I recently worked at a company called "It's Sugar" (candy store) where they paid me less than 10 an hour for being supervisor. This store is open on Thanksgiving AND Christmas all day. They didn't allow us to close the store until we met the sales goals no matter how empty the streets were. This means I would get home around midnight or so almost every night...Also the candy is 14 dollars per pound which is insane. I hope you were an hourly (not salary) employee. Ouch. One of those opened up near me not too long ago and it's almost always empty. I shopped there once, but the prices are just too high. It's a huge rip off. It's always better to just go to Target for candy because they sell the same theater box candies for only 1 dollar while It's Sugar sells them for 2.49 or 3.49. Also keep in mind that a lot of kids reach their bare hands into those containers over and over again so they are pretty much all contaminated. &gt; Also the candy is 14 dollars per pound which is insane.

The normal price of a snickers bar is around 10 bucks a pound these days, so not so insane. It's Sugar charges 20 dollars for the 1lb Snickers bars.


http://www.itsugar.com/giant-snickers-candy-bar.html proof. &gt; 14 dollars per pound

Are people really that scared of baking? I work at a Wet Seal in a different city. I haven't worked in three weeks. Fuck my bills. A little late to the party but if the company is going under, doesn't that leave nothing to boycott?  Perhaps we should keep an eye on where the upper management gets their next job and boycott THAT place. From what I understand it's just this store not the company, they just opened two new stores in my town Aw, I see, it just seemed like there were a lot of their stores closing and with the Forbes article it seemed their fate was sealed. 
Thanks! &gt; Perhaps we should keep an eye on where the upper management gets their next job and boycott THAT place.

That's actually one of the better ideas.  Better yet, get this message out loud and publicly and maybe, just maybe, upper management won't be able to get new jobs due to the boycott threat. Thats a brilliant idea! [deleted] I decided to stop going to Wal-Mart 5 years ago and quit going.

I'd skip over this store if I saw a sign like that.

Basically at some point you just have to pry yourself out of materialism/consumerism and learn to be happy without un-necessary bullshit, it makes it easier to stick to your morals.

When I stopped going to Walmart, I was below the poverty line. The only time I've been there was to see if they sold packer brisket. They did, but I still walked out  and paid more elsewhere because fuck Walmart.  Amen to this.  I also stopped shopping at Wal-Mart, probably about the same time as you.  I began boycotting Target as well the first time they were open on Thanksgiving day (can't remember if it's been two years or three).  I realized that I didn't need most of the crap I was buying there anyway and have found locally owned places to purchase the things that I actually do need.   "But now I shop at target!" Eh, I don't really...shop. /r/minimalism for the most part (except BBQ, woodworking, and # of computer monitors).  Yes, now I go to the mom and pop that pays their employees the same, offers health benefits for 0% of their employees, don't have to adhere to many of the laws businesses with &gt;50 people do, etc.  The extra money goes well towards the inflated ego I get to flaunt.


I do genuinely wish we had a Cosco or even Sam's Club out here though.  But the mom and pops in my experience don't pay any better and are more able to skirt laws than even evil Walmart. Agreed. I think /u/soretti is right about a majority of people, but there are some who, if they know about something like this, will make an effort to avoid these stores. I also haven't been in a Wal-Mart in at least 5 years and my girlfriend and I will avoid any store that we hear similar negative things about. materialism/comsumerism is a huge issue in this country.

But people  NEED that new iPhone 6.  "No you don't understand my phone is 2 years old I NEED these features..."

My broke ass little brother, in debt trying to pay off a car and college, rolls up with a brand new iP6 at christmas... with a cracked screen.  I told him he's an idiot for getting rid of his perfectly fine win phone.  Last year I got him an amazon gift card to help get his school books for him.  He got an xbox one instead.  Tehn not two months later he asked me if I wanted to buy it form him for $400 cash, because he was broke and needed it for school.  LOLNOPE. It's crazy. When I was house shopping I applied for a mortgage. My wife and I were making about 90k combined a year and we were approved for *450,000*. I was floored. 

So we looked at houses around 200k. Agent was like "durr why you no 400k". Bank was like "durr y no 400k tho". We ended up buying a 1400 sq. foot bungalow for about half of what we were approved for. 

All of our peers complain about being house poor in their 450k houses. Now that the newness has worn off, we get "man I wish I did what you did". 

Less house, less stuff, less worry. 

When I went car shopping I had no trouble getting loans for 40k cars. I bought a 2500 dollar toyota truck instead. Peers all have new Infinitis/beamers. 

We've since increased our pay about 60%. Still got the same shit truck, still got the same small house. Maxing out Roths and 401ks feels much better than having some shitty fucking phone.  Same here, I've been to Wally World twice in four years. AMEN! I am at least 5 years clean and sober from that God forsaken company. Dead peasant policies for their workers did it for me. I will go to any Dollar store, Kroger, or drive out of my way and spend more money at Target to avoid going there. I got a gift card to Walmart for Christmas that I don't even want to use. They already got the money for it of course, so I guess it'd be okay, BUT I DONT WANNA.  Why don't you use it to buy food or diapers for your local food pantry? GREAT IDEA! I honestly feel awful that I hadn't already thought of that. Thank you. Same here. A Wal-Mart opened up just around the corner. I drive past it as I go to the Target another mile or so away. Target's not perfect, but it's all about out-running the other guy and not the bear. 

Oh. And fuck Wal-Mart.  Target isn't any better.  Target may not be perfect but it's certainly better than Wal-Mart. I work in the retail technology industry and deal with retailers at all corporate levels. Working with Wal-Mart is a huge pain in the ass. Much more so than any other retailer. The only other retailers I avoid due to dealing with their corporate folks are TJX and Hobby Lobby. 

BTW...A retailer with some of the nicest C-Levels is Stein Mart. The best run grocer with great corporate folks is HEB (mostly in Texas).  I love HEB. I have friends that work for a few and they've all been paid well and are happy with the company. once HEB started branching out more and becoming more like Walmart in terms of products, it greatly reduced how often I visit basically any other grocery store  I love HEB too. They take care of their in-store folks and it shows. HEB's fresh tortillas have spoiled me. And their bread. I could go on. They have amazing store brand stuff.  oh God the tortillas! and their bread. best sourdough bread by the loaf that I've had  You don't work at a Target though. You just like how they haggle for deals.  Your guns man. They're sticky.  It was an easy decision. They had USDA Choice ! signage up all around the beef, but if you look at the cryovac, it plainly said USDA Select.  Unacceptable.  USDA Prime has the highest fat content.  
USDA Choice has the next-highest fat content.  
USDA Select has the lowest fat content in comparison to the above two.  
  
In case anyone else was wondering what the difference was too. Don't buy stuff you don't need. You could probably liquidate 80% of the crap in most people's homes and after a small reajustment period they'd be happy again.  People just consume and consume and consume, for no other reason. They only way shitty places like this can exist is if they sell crappy stuff that breaks after 6 months to a year and then you have to replace it. [deleted] I make decisions on the margin. I feel marginally better proportional to my lack of shopping there. I don't think I'm going to fix the world. I think doing something is better than doing nothing. Hey fellow Wal-mart boycotter! I've stopped going for about 3 years now too! It's not much but I'm glad there are others. I think I've only been in a Walmart maybe 5 times in the last 5 years after moving out of my parents house and don't recall buying anything. I'd rather spend a few bucks more at our local Meijer store. I worked at one for about 3 years and they treat workers well and is based in Michigan near where I live.  &gt; I'd rather spend a few bucks more at our local Meijer store

Yeah herpes is pretty fucked, I'd totes go for the syphilis too in that situation.   It's your choice to not like certain retailers, but in my experience meijer has had cleaner stores and friendlier employees. You can also usually find an employee to help if you need it. All but 2 stores, iirc, are unionized which does help to keep employees happier. Raises are based on hours worked on the job, $.10 after your first 500 hours and $.25 when you hit 700 hours and $.25 every 700 hours after that. 

My cousin's community actually fought quite hard to get a meijer built in their town because of their reputation for cleanliness and better working conditions.  &gt;This is a real problem with the people of this country.


&gt;This sign for example would not stop me from checking out a clearance sale.


So, you're saying you're part of the problem?  You may not be able to change everyone's spending habits, but if you're aware of an issue, why do you immediately give in and say "yeah, i'd still go there to save a few bucks"?  That's not to say you should be perfect and never mess up, but is it really that hard for you to just walk past a store that you consciously know is willingly shitty to the people that it trusts to run its business?? [deleted] &gt; Consider yourself real talked.

Hah, noice.



Yeah, I'm not trying to claim to be perfect by any stretch of the imagination (nor am I saying you or anyone else should be).  What I'm saying is, we all make choices, some easy, some hard. And I don't understand why you'd so quickly give in to, quite honestly, one of the very easy choices you could make.  



It's not like TVs or smartphones where you really have no other viable option if you want that product.  It's about what individual people can personally handle.  For example, I choose not to shop at Walmart.  I don't stop other people from going, and I might occasionally buy products from companies of questionable ethics and quality, but it's something small, and manageable, and I think you're selling yourself short by essentially saying "they are shitty, but that does not to affect how I'll interact with them." I do not go to several stores that I used to:

 Chick-fil-a

 Salvation Army

 Hobbie Lobby

 Abercrombie and Fitch

 Walmart

My family will not support WET SEAL either.  All you can do is vote with your dollar.  Even if it makes no difference to their bottom line, it is like one vote, eventually you add the one votes up and it does make a difference. Comapnies that high HIGH tunrover rate do, becuase the ability to fill that postion quickly with minimum training is easy.  I always wonder how such companies seem completely puzzled about the amount of stock "shrinkage" and the "impossibility" to "motivate" their "employees". How about you treat them like humans, and with a minimum of decency as well as respect for their lives? That would avoid so many problems before the store is "accidentally on fire". I try to shop at places that treat employees better whenever possible.  (Like going Costco or my local unionized grocery store or ALDI vs. Walmart for example. Or Chick-Fil-A or Sheetz vs. McDonalds for another)   It's not always easy or cheaper, and sometimes I'm sure I make the wrong choice when I don't know the full information, but it generally works out alright. I don't think it's that small of a minority that would now avoid shopping at wet seal. Presumably Wet Seal is doing this because they are about to go bankrupt. You choosing to not shop at their liquidation sale won't really make them go more bankrupt. Saying, "Let's all stop shopping at Wet Seal!" after all the Wet Seals are closed isn't going to affect anybody. Well I think the sign is a good deterrant, imagine walking in there, and having to check out with employees asking for a boycott. Its not too different than crossing a picket line, I imagine that customers who walk in are met with a cold look of shame from the employees in there. &gt; This sign for example would not stop me from checking out a clearance sale.

Really? Why? Do you really need that shit so bad that you'll forgo your moral standing for some shitty cloths? [deleted] So every electronically manufactured device made in another country is created from slave labor? Show me evidence of this.

Secondly all labor is pretty much slave labor unless your upper middle class or own your own business because essentially you barely get paid enough to get by and the illusion of choice is really just a limited set of options. 

However, in this particular circumstance. The slave labor is more prounounced. Several of the people in that sign didn't even get paid.

When someone is working for free and being treated like shit on top of that. Then I think it matters.

Just imagine...you work at some shitty store in the mall. Barely making enough to get by; you probably live with extended family if you don't have a significant other. 

One day your told you have a few days to find a new job, but you haven't been allowed to take any vacation for the holidays or anything and you may not have been paid for 2 weeks. You barely get by as it is. Your bank account is nearly empty. Your bills are adding up quick.

That company essentially just ruined your life for a while.

You'll have to either find a magic way to pay your bills are at least get out from under them. You'd probably have to live with friends or relatives until you find another place you can afford....after you find a job of course...who knows how long that will take in this economy...

Some people don't have lots of friends or family they can rely on for support...what happens to those people?

They either live in their cars or become homeless until they figure something else out. 

If my purchasing decision is literally helping a company ignore the basic human needs of it's employees then I won't buy from them if it's within my power in any way.

You should not ignore such issues lest they effect you the same way when such issues become evident. Companies that treat their employees well receive massive support from the employee base.  If anyone followed the recent employee revolt at Market Basket, you'll get an idea of how a company can do things the right way and still be profitable. &gt;  This sign for example would not stop me from checking out a clearance sale.

Hi. You're part of the problem. I wouldn't go in.  Those signs only one side of a small part of a much bigger story too.  Like for every worthless boss there are probably 100 worthless employees who slack off and steal.

 I'm never shopping at wet seal again. I used to spend ~$10k/year there for my dance school. GG Wet seal. Hope the 95k was worth my 10/yr. You spent $10,000/yr there?  Damn you are a significant loss to them They're basically bankrupt. This is an attempt at a controlled drowning. 

They don't care, they've got bigger fish to fry.  Go reddit! Go! Go! Years ago I lived in an apartment that had a mouse.  I felt kinda bad killing them, so I put out a similar no-kill solution.

Caught the mouse, took him a couple blocks away and released him.

He came back.

I caught him again took him a solid 1/4 mile away and released him.  

He came back.

Finally I got pissed and just bought a standard rat trap, killed the mouse, and tossed him in the garbage.

He came back.

And that's when the magnitude of the rodent problem finally dawned on me. I've had it explained to me as "if you see one, you've got ten".  That's with roaches. No, with roaches, it's "If you see one, you've got 100, and more than half of them are carrying 50+ eggs." Sleep tight! And tape your lips closed. They like dark, warm places.

Source:  you don't want to know why I know this. Please someone fucking tell me that this doesn't fucking happen. When I was about 3 years old I lived in what we called the roach motel. My mother saw a cock roach crawl out of my mouth and that's when we moved. FUCK THAT.
 This is the worst fucking thread ever! All I read was 
&gt;"My mother saw a cock." "My mother saw a cock... crawl out of my mouth" I woke up choking on a roach.  I thought I was going to die then i spit out a roach, and immediately started drinking to forget.  Keep drinking. Take a forget-me-now. Oh it fucking happened. When I lived in Australia I had a friend who told me a story about how he woke up with a  roach stuck in his ear. Apparently they don't know how to walk backwards so it kept moving forward. A doctor had to remove it in pieces.

Edit: I'll get into a little more gruesome detail. My friend woke up to a loud scratching noise and a pain in his ear. He was to the bathroom and started digging around but stopped when blood started pouring out of his ear. They went to the doctor who told them the horrible reality. It was too deep so they poured a fluid in to drown the roach, to stop it from getting in deeper while they tried to pull it out (there may have been another reason). Unfortunately when they get wet they tend to not stay in one piece, so they took it out in sections.  Fuck that.  Fuck every sentence you just typed. [Relevant](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZgLWl1bjH84#t=19)

[Slightly less relevant](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1EPPnxwKuFM)

/r/popping sends its regards. I am **NOT** clicking on any of that shit  This was part of my job description in Anaheim when I was an ER Tech. If you're careful and don't over soak it, it should come out in one piece.

But sometimes they lay their eggs in there. The egg sack you have to shoot off the inside of the ear where it's attached with water blasts like some demented carnival prize game. 

One of the best parts of the job actually. Its not fun when you are the carnival tho ;_; &gt; Source: you don't want to know why I know this.

I read this and my mouth literally dropped open in disgust.  Then I realized what I was reading and quickly shut my mouth again.

That just happened. ...go on. Ugh. I've caught two since I've been in my apt in LA. They're fucking MASSIVE out here. These roaches are getting fed *good*. I've always just prayed they've gotten in through a window because our place is always really clean. Closed all of the windows right when winter hit and haven't seen another one, thank god. Cleanliness can't help you if your neighbors are slobs.   They make a spray if you really want to know. You line the entries and corners with it, if they walk through they are paralyzed in a very short period of time.  Ah the giant fearless LA roach. I saw a few of them eating vomit one day. I hated everything for a good long while after I saw that.  They can also climb up out of your drains from the sewer. Keep those plugged up as well. that's not really true but it's a safe motto! What you got there is an infestation of Mouse Jesus. Gonna need a little crucifixion and tiny crown of thorns to sort that out. "He died for our wheat-thins." He is the Mousiah! Better a rodent problem than a zombie rodent problem. Brains for Algernon Curiously, that title works for the original book too.  [see also](http://i.imgur.com/gkRQdRh.gif) The comic timing between the mouse starting to eat and the bottle spinning is absolutely perfect. /r/yesyesyesno/ That technique is actually illegal in Norway. Hello? 911? Yes I'd like to report my neighbor, they made a very clever mousetrap! Please come arrest them! 112*

I'm sorry. 0118 999 88199 9919 725 3 [deleted] And a part that has 999, which was the 'old' number.  Ooh! Fore! I mean "Five!" I mean "Fire!". 50 bucks says that bin is full of water and drowning the mouse. Hot water. For making mouse soup. It's so simple! Just set it up in the morning and dinner is waiting for you when you get home! I read that in a stupid stereotype accent. Yoo hoo. Big summer blowout? Hello we have got 5 black..
Hello? Why? Often times that technique has the bucket full of water. The mouse swims to the point of exhaustion &amp; eventually drowns. It's also 100% automated no need to reset, which means the mice / rats can end up together &amp; eat each other before starving &amp; rotting.

Animal cruelty.

That's just my guess. I worked in a seasonal restaurant for a few years. We would close up shop every winter, break the place down, wrap EVERYTHING, it was a whole ordeal.

Well, one year we forgot to put away a gallon of olive oil, which had it's top off. No big deal, we would have chucked or someone would have taken it home it either way, it was just overlooked. It had an opening about the size of a golf ball, and maybe 4 inches of oil still left in it. When we came back the next summer to reopen there must have been 15 dead mice in there, poor bastards. Ya, I had a similar experience.  I had a gallon of antifreeze that was leaking from the bottom in the trunk of my car.  My temporary fix was to put it in a bucket in my shed.  Only I forgot about it.  The next spring there were a dozen dead mice in the bucket floating in antifreeze.  Not a great way to go. so they'd jump in, get stuck, and just drink almost a gallon of the oil up until they died/drowned?  They oil wrestle to their death.  Pretty much. I think they would jump onto the rim of the bottle and hang down into it to check it out and then just slip right in since it was oily. The way the bottle was shaped- there was really no chance of getting out, especially after getting greasy. What amazed me was that there were so many, you'd think they would be deterred after the first few died in there... Poor guys, seems like a really shitty way to go.  Maybe they were all holding onto each other trying to pull him out  Well now I'm sad. Then you take the rat that survives and release it.  Now that it has a taste for rat and mouse flesh, it will rid your island of vermin. 
 Thanks for the too Silva Where is that from? It seems so fammiliar but can't remember. The latest james bond.. Skyfall?  i think. *ahem*

LET THE **SKY**FAAAAALLLLLLLLLLLLLLLL.... WHEN IT CRUMBLEEEEEESSSSSSSS Yeah, it's part of the conclusion of the villain's monologue.

The Monologue. The only thing that kept Bond alive for decades. Incidentally, also one of my favorite scenes from any movie.

["You sly dog, you caught me monologuing!"](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=iRlh_w6uRds#t=70) Not trying to be a dick but, he says "got me monologuing" because Mr. Incredible baited it.  If it was full of, cream that mouse, could swim until it churned, the cream to butter.  Gotta add the *Walken pauses*, my friend!! Edited for Walken pauses.  I find it funny that different people have different levels of how large/smart a creature has to be for it to be cruel to do something to it

we don't care if this happens to bugs, but mice thats terrible, yet a possum, raccoon, or skunk is considered somehow worse and can get in a brutal trap

not really agreeing with either side, but I just find the idea interesting

edit:  by funny I mean interesting/quaint etc
 It's all about the cuteness. Only cute things are worth being saved. Imagine how nice it will be in the future, when only the cute animals remain on Earth, and we get visited by aliens. They're gonna be like, "dayuum, this place only got cute shit." We have to try to be be cuter than Pupulon.

http://www.pbfcomics.com/162/ And then you get to farm animals and were back to not giving a shit how their treated.  Depends where you're from. In New Zealand over recent years attempts to start American style factory farms for beef have them stopped, and there is a massive move towards free range eggs, chicken and pork. 

Some places do actually care, even about farm animals bred for food  Sounded like bullshit, only I can find about this is [this article(in norwegian)](http://www.aftenposten.no/fakta/innsikt/Hvordan-drepe-en-mus-7410439.html) which mentions a Swedish law that forbids having water in the bucket. 

No mention of illegality in Norway, though What would be the most humane way to kill a caught mouse?  A hydrogen bomb. They'll never see it coming.  But is it legal in Norway? Carbon monoxide or nitrogen.  The pain associated with suffocation comes from carbon dioxide building up in the lungs, so if they breathe something that just lowers the oxygen content without preventing the release of CO2 then they just go to sleep and never wake up. Why don't we execute people that way? Good question. I think it's been proposed but I don't know why we still do lethal injection, which has been shown to cause inhumane death.  Political scientist here! It's because no one is actually for humane capitol sentences. The people pointing to the evidence of lethal injection being inhumane are actually pushing for a ban, and the people defending lethal injection as humane are actually defending the death penalty qua death penalty- while the arguments might be a little relevant to the immediate point, their motives are as I have said.  Another Political Scientist, this is exactly it. 

Pro Death Penalty people generally give zero fucks about how humane the treatment is. They're motivated by revenge, and you'd probably get a large chunk saying the more excruciating the execution the better. This is what's happening in the states where they're more or less pumping them full of whatever stuff they found at the hardware store with a skull and crossbones label on it into the prisoners. 

Anti Death Penalty people generally give zero fucks about how humane the treatment is, and even if the death was perfectly painless still call it inhumane. 

Then you have the rare Anti Death Penalty person who thinks it's bad to execute prisoners because death is too light of a punishment for some crimes.  I don't know. I think we should, and [here's](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WTNX6mr753w) a video showing an experiment about this exact scenario. With a hammer. Very quick and efffective.  but is it legal in Norway? Only during the designated hammer time STOP Only if you use animal cruelty approved Thor's hammer. 

 Yep. Had one of those in the barn because the horse grain attracted mice.

Emptied it once a month, and every time there would be 10 to 20 mice in there... And that's *after* also having a cat around that ate nothing but mice. "We're gunna need a bigger cat." Instructions unclear; puma now eating the horses "Mmmm Peanut butter.....SHIT!" Jesus, at first glance that bucket looked like a paper shredder! Fucking fantastic idea! Now you don't even need to kill the mice after capturing them. And now you've got mulch for your garden! /r/frugal About ten years ago a mouse fell from the ceiling of our house through a light fixture right in the middle of our three cats. It was almost comical the way it looked around as the slumbering cats woke and took notice.  Immediately it sought limited refuge under our tv stand. Not wanting a bloodbath I thought only to empty a paper grocery bag, placed it in front of the tv stand and exclaimed, "if you want to live, get in this bag." and almost instantly it fled into the bag with enough force to flip it upright.  The mouse got to live, I got a story to tell and the cats got to go back to sleep so it all worked out. This story is made better by imagining you as Arnold Schwarzenegger. *Come with me if you want to live* *Get in dis bahg if you want to live*. *GET TO THE BAAAHHHGGG* in a world.(EXPLOSION)of good rodents gone bad.(MACHINE GUN SOUND).one mouse...one desire...

he lived and worked in the ceiling...but he knew too much...and the cat mob wanted in(CAT HISSES).

He had one chance...and this chance was to fight back (SOUND OF GLASS BREAKING).

This summer...see the movie everyone's talking about, but no one wants to see:
(HEARTBEAT slowly fades out)


MICE OF PREY.



 That sounds like a scene from ratatouille  Did you have them walking on your stove? Or was it just set up for the photo. Usually if you get mice in an apartment they come in and out of the stove because some shitty contractor didn't fucking patch the wall behind it right and you're just kind of fucked forever after that. also smell of grease/spillage on the stove, and those things have tons of little channels and holes and pathways inside them.  if they didnt come in behind the stove, they're going to check it out sooner or later anyways. They'll enjoy nesting under the stove, too.  If you don't use the broiler on the bottom (or if it's a model with a storage area beneath), mice find it an ideal area for setting up a new home.  

When I had an infestation due to my neighbors, the mice quickly found the stove.  Whenever I'd be doing dishes or turn on the oven, they'd dart out from the top of the burners.  Scares the bejeezus out of you when you'd be minding your own business.

Anyway, if you don't take care of the situation soon, it becomes quite awful because mice love crapping and pissing in the same areas where they sleep or eat.  In this situation, any time you'd turn on the oven would result in the burning stench of mouse piss enveloping your residence in a miasma of ammonia-induced agony.  At that point, you're likely better off throwing away the entire oven.

**TL;DR**  Yes, mice like the oven. And after a month, you've trapped all the mice. But what do you do then? Throw the bin into a river? Burn it? No. You just leave it. And they begin to get hungry. And one by one, they will start eating each other, until there are only two left. The two survivors. And then what? Do you kill them? No, you take them, and release them into your house. And now, they don't eat peanut butter anymore. Now they only eat mice. You have changed their nature.  Skyfall reference eh Nah it's from Driving Miss Daisy. Actually it's from Back Door Blondes 6, but you have to have the DVD, as it's director's commentary. nice. rang a vague bell, had to google it.  &gt;vague bell

Worst bell ever.  *Maybe Ding* *Perhaps Dong* I came back from a 3-week training course to find that my mattress had become a habitrail-type of mouse community.  I can't kill things so I bought a humane trap and collected mouse after mouse.  I took them to a nearby forest and let them go.

About six months later my Dad asked me to pick him up at the airport.  He let me use his own car to drive to get him so my brother and I took his car from his house up in the mountains and started driving down the insanely windy mountain road.  As I reached the bottom I saw the lights of a Police Car and I pulled over.

The road had a 25 MPH limit and he had clocked me at 50.  It was genuine, I had been driving that road for years.

He asked me for my license and registration and my brother reached into the glovebox, pulling out a giant pile of confetti-size shreds of paper.  A mouse had made a nest of the glovebox.  My brother found the registration but it had been folded in four so when he unfolded it only the outer edge was readable.

I handed it the the officer who just stared at it.  I told him it looked like a mouse had eaten it.  Without saying a word he walked back to his cruiser.  My brother looked back and he was laughing on the radio.

He came back, asked me MY name.  The name the car was registered to.  Then told me to get a new registration card and let me go without a ticket.

I KNOW it wasn't the same mouse who did that.  But I love the idea that mouse karma carried over and saved me a lot of money. I didnt expect that to happen. I thought you were going to say the mouses you released multiplied massively and had taken over most of the area/road and caused police to lower the speed limit due to an infestation or something.

That seems pretty stupid now that I'm reading back over it   I used a glue trap once. Caught the mouse, took the trap outside and used some vegetable oil to help him wriggle free.
The next day I walk outside and find this
http://imgur.com/4BlUnOp Damn that's cold Cryogenically frozen mouse. Mel Gibson mouse. Mouse Gibson. Reminds me of this video. Mouse gets captured by hawk after being let go. 
http://youtu.be/1VyQipO4miw You need to find where they are getting in too.  Put some steel wool in there when you patch it up.


I know reddit hates to be cruel to animals but once you've had a mouse or rat infestation you will hate them a passion unequaled.  They piss, poop, and destroy everything.  I hate those fuckers.  Anyway, you might consider and exterminator. Why steel wool? They can't/won't chew through it. ok can't. I was gonna ask why they wouldn't if they chew through copper wiring why not steel wool. they don't chew the copper, they eat the insulation. Once their mouths reach the copper, they usually cease to be a problem. they start being a potential fire hazard I had a house burn down because of this. He was inside the wall so there was nothing anyone could do to prevent it. All the family photos gone.

The only things that didn't burn were the rolls of toilet paper, a box of matches, and an old painting of a "witch's house in Salem Massechusetts." &gt;and an old painting of a "witch's house in Salem Massechusetts."

It didn't burn? That's proof enough for me. I know it sounds fucking stupid, but those three items were the only ones that made it through undamaged. All other hung pictures were scorched or had smoke damage, but that witch painting was fine. I wish I could have seen what the wall looked like where it was hung. You can also get some serious upper respiratory infections from inhaling small floating particles of their waste. One of the conditions upon buying our house was that the seller hire an exterminator. When we redid the basement pantry, we pulled out all the shelves and they were just littered with feces. The insulation in the kitchen wall was the same- turned into a little fuzzy mouse poop nest. 


And it's an old house, btw, so we are doing a lot of fixing up, which is why I saw the kitchen insulation. 

We heard a critter near the old pantry a week or so ago :( Have to agree to a point as these look like field mice and not typical house mice meaning they are getting in from the outside probably to get out of the cold. It's the fact that they scratch. It's awful hearing that at night. We had an infestation of rats in our attic a couple of years ago. It took a week to get the exterminator out, and I barely slept until he got them all. The sound of them running and scratching and chewing right above my head freaked me out. I kept thinking they would chew through the ceiling and land on me in the night. Drove my cat crazy, too. He would jump onto the top of the wardrobe, so he was just a foot or so below the ceiling, and stalk around up there, glaring up at the ceiling with his tail twitching. We actually thought about just turning him loose in the attic for a couple nights, but once the pest guy showed me how fucking huge the rats he caught were, I was glad we didn't.  One night I heard the loudest scratching sound near my bed.  I turned the light on and looked for the source, but couldn't find anything.  I tried going to back to sleep.  The scratching resumed.  Again I turned the light and again I found nothing.

This went on for a half hour until finally I remained perfectly still for several minutes and concentrated to pinpoint exactly where the sound was coming from.  Then I found it.

It was a cricket chewing on tissue in my waste basket.

No joke. Yeah they're real cute until you get an infestation. Had them in my old college apartment, they were row houses and no one was living next door the one year. So all these mice suddenly came into our kitchen and dining room, eating into every plastic bag and little black feces everywhere, including on top of the stove. Caught like a dozen of them before they stopped coming (I think because people started living next door again).  Seriously. If you relocate a mouse, it's just going to come back, or infest another person's house. Just get rid of it. It's not like they're an endangered species or anything. Best solution is just to fry it up and eat it. I find killing their leader and displaying his head on a stake sends a good enough message to the rest of his clan. Works best if their leader is a cat called Maurice. Some people call him a space cowboy.  &gt; fry it up and eat it.

I did a parasite study as part of a university course. Caught and dissected 50 wild mice to count and classify their parasites.

It was cool, but the thought of eating one is just.. yeech. Gives me the shivers.  Mmmmm just imagine taking a bite out of it and you can taste the melted cheese inside. [deleted] One cat. After you get rid of them and seal the entrances they're using to get in......get a cat. Well... an energetic cat with actual hunting instinct. Back in middle school we had a mouse problem in the house, and 2 cats. One cat would kill the mice and bring them to us. The other one... would catch the mice *live* and drop them in front of us. That's not as much appreciated.  Oh my cat did this. Nothing worse coming home to a house full of feathers and blood all over the place to find a half alive bird or mouse jumping around. 

Or the smell, the smell you could not place, only to find a dead animal laying under your bed for weeks. They think you're bad at hunting. They're not wrong. We had the worlds most fucking useless cat. My Dad once dumped out a bucket of 3 mice in front of that cat (they'd gotten into the food bucket) and the cat 100% ignored all 3 We have a cat like that. He's so fucking fat, and all he does is eat, sleep, and shit. I tried to 'sic' him on a mouse on the driveway, and he just walked back inside.

Useless fuck, he's lucky that he's affectionate. [I thought the bottom of the bin would be something like this](http://img4.wikia.nocookie.net/__cb20110311014912/mkwikia/images/4/46/Stage_fatality.png) I bought an electric zapper trap from Amazon and killed probably 25 mice in my garage before I finally started waking up to empty traps.  If you caught 2 that quick, there's pribbaly a lot more coming  This way is MUCH more ingenious http://i.imgur.com/nZgJVuE.jpg You know that game only worked half the time! I remember many times as a child that various friends would always have mousetrap. I would get excited because I've never played it and it seems like so much fun to assemble everything. Whenever I would ask to play, "Oh it's broken" or "Oh we are missing pieces". Every single time. I've even debated purchasing the game as an adult, but it's too deeply ingrained that there will be missing pieces. So buy two, one to play, one for spare parts.  

And you're a grown-up now,  fer Pete's sake. You should be able to keep track of a dozen or so parts I think they changed it as well.  I recall reading that, so it's a lot less Rube Goldberg-esque now.  No I played it recently, knowing it was going to suck, but my wife was all about it since she didn't have it as a kid.  

It was the same as it has always been, and the fucking thing doesn't work. But when it does.... http://i.imgur.com/zGHNzyG.jpg Half?! Your set was magic if so! Isn't that the point though? That even if you land on the trap square you're not necessarily doomed? I don't like killing them. So one time, I caught a mouse and tied a helium balloon around its tail and sent it into the sky alive. Last I heard, he is nearing Jupiter.

I make dreams a reality for mice. Well that's pretty damn ingenious and humane. catching them humanely is one thing. now they have to be disposed of somehow. I was always a fan of [this](http://totallyabsurd.com/wild%20west%20mouse%20trap%20ta.jpg) method  imagine a gun shot going off in your house at 3:32 in the morning. Well, if I had this knowingly set-up, I'd be momentarily confused, then I'd shout "TANGO DOWN" and go back to dreaming of bald eagles and the American flag.

Fuck yeah. The American way. We don't need no vermin in our houses. mice could use more freedom bullets Catch a bunch of Mice. Put them in a cage and tie it to some Helium Balloons. Send them to space. This way you are sending them on a little trip far away and you don't need to worry about it!

Okay well maybe a falling Cage is a bad thing. This will get buried, but echoing the cat comments. When I moved into my new place my cat kept going into this crawl space at the back of the house for some reason. She stopped after a few months. Later I had a plumber come into the basement and pointed out a rodent nest. I guess my cat took care of it naturally for me.  We had a mouse once and none of the humane traps were working so finally we used a glue trap. I go to get a midnight snack and there it is - stuck in the glue trap. When I turned the light on it was terrified and looked like it was breaking its own legs to try and get free.

I put the trap with the mouse in a plastic bag, took it outside, and stomped on its head as hard as I could.

I hated doing that, it was adorable and I love animals, but I don't regret ending its suffering.

Still makes me a little sad. Glue traps are hideous.  I go for the swish SNAP type so its over fast. One time I caught a mouse with one of the snap traps. I found it in the morning still alive with its head caught in the trap, the metal bar across it's neck. It was still kicking wildly trying to escape. I grabbed the trap and slammed the mouse against the ground until it stopped moving. Part of me died a little that day. This thread is making me realize that I'm very glad I'm not a mouse. This thread is making me realise lots of people have moral hangups about killing pests.  We'd feel better if it was done with drones far away and out of sight. Oh goodness. I had to do that with my hamster. I lived in an apartment, and the landlord had put in mousetraps. I heard the snap, and when I found her, her body was twisted at a weird angle, her neck under the snap, but she was alive and suffering. I called my dad crying and he calmly told me to grab the trap and put it in a bag. I stayed on the phone as he told me to go outside with it and put it down on the sidewalk and pick up a big rock from the yard. There was snow on the ground and I was kneeling in front of it in shorts, saying I couldn't do it and my dad told me "You can either throw it in the garbage and know that little animal is going to suffer and die, or you can end it now." I brought that rock down hard and went back inside to cry it out. I hate that story. =/  Be sure to take them far away. Mice are very good at finding their way back to their nests  He should put a snake in the trash bin underneath. pungee trap, put thousands of nails pointing up, no more mouse. Easy there, Victor Charlie.  **Scarface, the Beast in the Walls**
 
It should probably be a musical or something.

**Act I**

I lived in a "garden" apartment once. That basically means its one of those that is half way underground - almost a basement, but not quite. The back door was in the kitchen and led to the alley way, right next to a row of dumpsters.

One of the apartments I grew up in as a kid was mouse infested. So I knew something was up when heard the gnawing in the walls around the kitchen at night. I looked for droppings around the house but didn't notice any.

I knew not to use poison, they end up dead in the walls or under a stove - they rot and smell, and you can't find them. So I purchased a few standard snapping mouse traps.  One night I heard a POP coming from the kitchen while in bed. Good news to me, but I waited until morning, since i was already dozing off.

I got up, checked to traps. The first one I looked at - it wasn't there. I looked around, it was half way across the kitchen. I figure it must have snapped hard and flipped over there. No mouse,... but.... uhh.. wtf... There was... blood. Blood all over the wall where the trap was, and small globs on the floor. There was even a small bit of hair pinched in the trap. I guess it just narrowly escaped? I guess,... pretty fucking crazy though. Fuck, that mouse will probably die in the walls and stink up the place, I thought to myself.

I kept hearing the gnawing, and once in a while I would hear scurrying about if I got up for a drink at night. I reset the traps. No more snaps though, not even one. Strange.

Never mind, sucks, but just means I have to move the traps and change bait. Got another snap. This time no mouse, no blood, but the bait was gone. It was even gone on one that hadn't snapped. 

One night I thought I heard noise in the living room, so I left powder on the floor between the kitchen and bedroom. Confirmed... the there was a lot of disturbed powder, the mice were definitely leaving the kitchen - probably in response to my cracking down on loose food items and steam cleaning things.


**Act II**

One morning I got up early, it was still dark. I was groggy, but headed to the kitchen to make a coffee. I flipped on the light, and I thought I heard some rustling. I paused, and heard nothing. I kept walking into the kitchen, and as I approached the garbage can, it suddenly started shaking! It shook so hard, that it knocked over the broom leaning on the wall next to it, it freaked me out but, my immediate thought was I had hit the broom, and it shook the trash can. I thought the trash can was going to tip over. So i leaned into catch it.

As I leaned forward, a fucking BEAR with claws the size of,... bear claws,... jumped out of the trash can, toward my head (because that was the way out of the can). 

~~FuuuUUuuck! I jumped back, and I think I did one of those screams where you don't actually make a sound, you just kind of gasping in terror. It clumsily tumbled on the hardwood floor, it righted itself, and looked around. I screamed, and made sounds that I image Marsellus Wallace would never make. It slipped as it frantically tried to run on the hardwood floor, toward the back of the fridge. I fell backwards onto some boxes we had in the kitchen.~~ 

I head butted it, and punched it in the face mid-air, like a man! I wrestled it to the floor. When i landed I tried to stomp on it with my bare feet, but it ran away like a little bitch! [Actual photograph of the incident](http://www.pages.drexel.edu/~esf24/rous.jpg).

In reality, it was a large rat. Larger than a squirrel, maybe the size of a young horse cat.  It used the plastic bag to climb out - thats why it took so long, why it shook so much, giving me time to ~~freak out, and rationalize, and freak out again~~ man-up and prepare for battle.


**Act III**

From then on, I started putting the lid on the trash, with books on top to keep it down. I set up my laptop in the kitchen, with some motion sensor software, and I got video of it. 

Confirmed, lots of movement in and out of the kitchen.  I found out from the video it was just a single rat, big as hell, and it was moving freely into and out of the kitchen all night.

If I stayed up watching TV, I would see his big ass head come out from under the stove, I'd look and he'd duck away. Eventually though, he realized I wasn't coming for it. He stopped being scared of me, and thought he could walk around freely even when I was around. 

Double FuuuuuckckckUcuckckck!


Tried rat traps, no good. The son of a bitch learned from the little ones he defeated. He also learned to avoid certain types of bait - I even experimented, by leaving bacon out in the open, no trap. He wouldn't take it. Its like this was an RPG and the bastard had leveled up and increased his INT by defeating lower level baddies.

One of the main problems, which I had noticed on video, is that the rat was incredibly cautious. When food was left out, it was interested, but it would sniff around it, even bump it to see if it triggered a trap, but usually it would just leave it. Asshole was smart, this was the Moriarty of rats. He had a mangled face and nose and ear - probably from the encounter mouse trap - I started calling him Scarface.

I'm a fucking human, I have thumbs, we send people to the moon and landed on a comet, I can contemplate my own existence mother fucker, and the nature of the universe! I'm gonna beat this fucking rat! 

**Act IV**

I tried some elaborate traps, some that were funny, and show how smart the bastard was. If this were a movie its where we would have a montage, but I'll skip them to tell what worked.

I left food where I knew it would go often. In the trash with no lid. If I left the kinds of bait I used before, it left it alone. So I made new bait, and improved it over time. I slowly changed the formula until I made something so potent in oder, and Scarface trusted so much, that he would take from the floor or the garbage can without hesitation. 

The final concoction was a mix of flour, bacon grease, peanut butter, peanuts, maple syrup, honey, sugar, and tiny bits of bacon and ground beef. Fuck, I wanted to eat it, it smelled delicious! I made a lot and kept it in the fridge, but I heated it up in the microwave before use to make the smell spread.

Finally, the trap. I figured I would have one shot before Scarface would get wise and avoid the trash can. I put in a small amount of normal garbage. No liner, so it couldn't use it to climb out. I spread the bait it onto a paper towel, then twisted the towel tightly into a stick-like shape. I pressed it just a couple inches just below the rim of the can, across the opening, and I taped it to a thread also taped to the lid. I also put small amounts of bait around the can, leading to the rim, and to the bait.

I setup the camera, and went to bed. In the morning, my girlfriend woke up to the can shaking all over the place. The lid was closed. Scarface was inside, flipping out. 

The video revealed that Scarface almost didn't fall for it. He followed the trail to the rim, and sniffed at the bait, but then just circled the rim suspiciously. Probably because of the fact that were was no liner, he knew something was up. He climbed off the trash and back up several times. One of the times he poked his nose down to sniff the paper towel and he went too far, and slipped in - to his DOOM!

We called city rat control, which said they would come get it. I didn't want to release it because it would just come back, or go into someone else house. This isn't a wild animal, this is a disease spreading pest! They never came, the rats panic eventually stopped, and for whatever reason Scarface died in the can by the end of the day. A little later it was already starting to smell.

It was a $15 plastic trash can, so I just taped up the lid, and threw the whole can in the dumpster. 

Human wins!
-------------------


**Way TL;DR**

Act I - 
I thought i had a bunch of mice.

Act II - 
I realized it was just a single, very big rat - when I was scared shitless by it as it jumped out of my garbage can as I walked by.

Act III - 
It had been wounded and scarred by a mouse trap, so I named him Scarface. It was super smart, and learned from mistakes. 

Act IV - 
I made my own bait from food, including bacon. I caught it in a garbage can, not because he fell for the bait, but because he slipped in. Bitch is dead! I win.

------
Edit: Changed the title to avoid the spoiling the twist.



 I had a mouse (Freddy) and ended up getting what I thought were no kill traps. They weren't... Sorry Freddy.  Here's my ingenious trap.

http://i.imgur.com/nbg5Giq.jpg

I've been rodent free for decades. Put some antifreeze in the bottom of the bucket, kills them somewhat faster than water.
Just dont put that trap on the attic and then forget about it for a few weeks, it will smell like a bagful of moldy cunts. &gt; bagful of moldy cunts

We've found our new band name!

Edit: we're a spice girls tribute band. My boyfriend tried this literally four different times in our garage to rid of one damn mouse. I swear, every time he set it up the bastard mouse out smarted him &amp; just stole the food.  [deleted] then you gave up when one morning you found your boyfriend in the bucket man trains rat to eat peanut butter and find its way home.

homing rats.

with little bombs strapped to their backs.

I could make a movie out of this shit.

*scribbles furiously* Wanted? still the most elegant solution of all: http://www.yankodesign.com/images/design_news/2010/08/19/one_down.jpg When I was a kid, I had this glue trap laid over on my concrete floor(because I'm a dumb fuck). So a few hours later a rat got glued. Then I realised I have no idea what to do, it was amusing how it was scared shitless at me trying to get away...until it ripped itself apart with it's guts pouring out. 

I freaked out, in the moment of panic I look for the closest thing I could find to quickly kill it so it won't suffer too much. By this point the rat were technically not trapped by the glue anymore, except its lower half still is and was desperately clawing its way away from me. I took this small wooden pole and try to kill it in one blow by smashing its head, turns out I was weak as shit and had to repeated bash the poor thing's head until it stopped moving.

I wish I knew this simple trap earlier. That's sad bro. Sorry ya had to do that. Is this how Charlie got his start? This entire thread is gory - including yours; however, your story reminded me about a discovery on how [some rodents are capable of regenerating tissue](http://www.nature.com/news/african-spiny-mice-can-regrow-lost-skin-1.11488).  

Some random trivia that I only recalled after reading your post.

 I laughed my ass off imagining it Why not just use a mouse trap? This is a no-kill method of catching them. You can collect them and release them somewhere else.  So somebody else house can get infested. Great idea. But THEY didn't kill the mouse, so their conscious is clear.  But you can sleep well at night knowing you didn't kill the little guys. Some people don't care about killing them, others do. For those who don't want to get their hands bloody, this is a great way to remove rodents from your house  Wasn't this the point? Infest your enemy's house with your own mouse infestation. This is the thing that always bugs me about Reddit and its infatuation with no-kill traps for mice. Okay, you caught it. What do you do now?

Release it?

1. Not far enough away? Mouse will return. You're very good at what you do.
2. Far enough away? Mouse probably dies in unfamiliar area because a predator finds it or something similar. You sure saved it from a quick death.
3. Suitable distance away but you're still near town? Well, you just dumped it on someone else. Nice work, Good Samaritan.

I had a neighbor that would do the same thing with squirrels. Catch them in live traps and then dump them out in the countryside. I just couldn't understand the point of doing it. I'm sure the predators and scavengers in the area *loved* it though. Well that is stupid.  Indeed you must release the mouse miles away.  When I was a kid my parents were trapping mice in a have-a-hart trap.  After doing this night after night, my father put a red "x" on a mouse's belly.  Sure enough the next mouse caught had a red X on his belly. How did he put on the red x without getting bit?  I once tried something similar, but they were in the drop ceiling. So i sawed a small hole in the ceiling and closed off one end of the tube with tape, put peanut butter in the end of the tube and attached the tube to the wall in hopes the mice would smell the PB and fall in the tube, becoming trapped. It didn't work and now I have a weird hole in my drop ceiling 

Edit: spelling I've had a mouse problem. 

First time I found one, it was caught in my iguana's cage. I had to cut the segment of chicken wire with bolt cutters to get it out. Its little black eyes looked at me and I felt bad. Then I did something stupid. After I cut the rest of the chicken wire off its neck, I fed it, took it about 3 blocks away and dropped it. I showed compassion

But mice have no compassion. Do not ever show weakness to these diseased vermin. 

Because that's when you get more mice. 

So, I got a cat. One morning, an hour before my alarm was set to go off, my cat was going apeshit and ran across my face. It cornered a mouse in the corner. I held it in place with a gun lock that happened to be quite conveniently placed while my wife fetched gloves and a thick plastic bag. 

I put the glove on, stuffed that fucker in the bag, took it outside and smacked that bitch on my driveway. I almost threw it out, then thought there was a chance it was still alive..

*smack smack smack*

I opened up the bag and the mouse was just a lump of bloody paste with scattered jutting bone at the bottom of the bag. 

After losing food and storage to accommodate the war effort and have places for poison, my compassion was gone. These little fuckers ran through dozens of containers of poison and still came in droves. Anyone who objects to killing these pests have never lived with them.  It took me a minute before I realized that you said gun lock instead of gun.

Just picturing your cat holding this mouse at gunpoint Pulp Fiction style. Coincidentally, I was just listening to This American Life about inventing mousetraps:

**Ira Glass** So with all of these people trying to invent a better mousetrap, the dirty secret of trapping mice is, mice are really easy to catch. That's why every inventor thinks that he can do it. Catching a mouse is basically playing against a casino where you always win. The regular, old-fashioned, cheap little mousetrap, Andy says, will usually catch the mouse in 24 to 48 hours. It will kill it 88% of the time. Other traps that aren't much more expensive have 100% lethality. Mice are easy to kill because mice, unlike rats, are incredibly inquisitive animals.

**Andy Woolworth** They investigate anything that's new. Anything that's in their normal territory for the evening, and that's typically-- most people don't know this but most mice only stay within 10 feet of where they are, max. And oftentimes it's less than that. And they may investigate that area 30 times during the night. They're not just going out once.

**Ira Glass** Well in a way what you're describing is almost the ideal animal to be caught.

**Andy Woolworth** Exactly.

Source: http://www.thisamericanlife.org/radio-archives/episode/311/transcript So how did you kill them? Relocating rodents is illegal in a lot of areas.  Fill the bucket with water.  they have to be submerged, not allowed to swim around till they are exhausted and die. Why? I read in a comment above that its considered animal cruelty or something like that. I don't understand this animal cruelty thing if it's just some random mouse that's just shitting and pissing in your domain and eating all your cords and walls and insulation. Fuck that thing, it's dieing in any way I see fit. Well...yeah. 

It would be pretty effective though.  They have now become lab rats. He does chemistry tests on them. Throw some dry ice in the bin and cover the top with some seran wrap. The CO2 will kill the mouse humanely.  The advised and legal way is to crush them, so throw them in a bag and crush it with a bat or your foot (wearing a shoe on the foot your are crushing the mouse with). &gt;crush it with a bat

Charlie knew what he was doing after all. Then why dont we do this during executions? This is also true, but you have to be sure you do it right. If not, you can just severely injure the animal and cause it a lot of agony.  Oh, I'm sorry, I'll fetch it a lethal injection next time. It's a mouse for crying out loud. First stomp didn't kill it? Stomp again Not everyone shares your enthusiasm of stomping on live animals. wut? I think the best option would be to give/sell them to someone who owns a snake. At least that way it's corpse is being used efficiently. Pretty humane id say. No sane snake owner would buy them. They hae been exposed to too much bacteria and viruses, being too risky for the snake. Pretty sure snakes already can tolerate whatever their prey has in them. Pretty sure you're just assuming things. Nah man, I'm a scientist when on Reddit. It's extremely not recommended to feed your pet with "outside" food. Captive snakes (considering you didn't take one directly from the wild) don't have the immune system required to protect itself from these bacteria/viruses. TIL being fed to a snake = humane

when you are old and ailing, we will feed you to a crocodile srad_. pretty humane i'd say Has to be a snake.  Just find a big one and it's a humane way to deal with an overabundance of the elderly. This is a horrible idea. Feeding live animals to snakes can cause the snake harm as well as disease.  I agree about the disease part but feeding it live animals shouldn't hurt a healthy snake. That's how they eat in the wild and that's what their bodies are adapted to. My friend feeds all of his adult snakes live mice and rats and none of them ever got injured because of it. Many snakes don't even like dead food. Because youre not feeding a wild animal, youre feeding an animal that has been used to eating dead animals and not knowing how to defend itself against its prey that can cause harm to it. Youve obviously never owned a reptile. There are several cases where feeding live mice and rats to a snake that have resulted in harm or even death to the snake. I depends on how the snake was raised. I only heard of frozen mice recently. People have been feeding their pet snakes live mice for a very long time.  It can still cause injuries to a snake.  Of course it can, just like in the wild. But many people have raised many snakes without issue. Also, many people have never fed their snakes dead mice therefore the snakes aren't used to eating dead mice.  They're not taught how to defend themselves in the wild either, this is a part of their natural instinct. And in my entire life, I've never seen a snake that couldn't defend itself from a mouse. But they learn in the wild and eat when they have to, not on a schedule. You've never seen a snake injured by a rat or mouse I'm sure but it happens.  Boom! Headshot. This is a recommended way to humanely kill them as well. Fill the bucket with water Uh oh. Now the world is going to beat a path to your door. Catch mice with this **one weird tip!**

*Exterminators hate him!!!* Now it puts the lotion in the basket  Wrong side of the garbage can... You're supposed to sort mice by color and recycle now.  Oh man! He's so cute!!  [lastnight at OP's house](http://youtu.be/IrUNvinLGSw) Cheers for the Rooster Teeth reference! Have caught many mice. It is not necessary to bait a trap to catch mice. You just get those no-kill boxes and put them along the baseboard in  different directions.

Mice walk by rubbing up against the baseboard of the wall of the room they are in. If you place a trap in their way, they just go right in.

Rats, on the other hand, have to be baited. They are smart, and they know it is a trap, but they cannot resist a food lure. 

So, this trap is cute, and worked, it is far more efficient to just put something along the wall.
 Yeah, I've seen those, but I was just trying something with things I had available in the house. I'm definitely going to look for a more permanent solution.  BTW, if you have one, you have many. They don't come in ones. You need to hunt down and find the nest. You will know you are near it. You will smell mouse pee, and you will feel an increase in temperature around it. 

They love to get into cardboard boxes of old things - anything with grain or even fake decor that looks like grain or seeds attracts them. They will eat styrofoam beans and stuff like that. They are really dumb. If you have an old box with stuffed animals in it somewhere in your home, I promise you they are in it, everything in the box is ruined, and they have stashed grain everywhere and peed and pooped on everything. 

You need more than traps. This is war.  Ok, but what do you do with the mice afterwards? I live in a fairly large city. I don't know where I'd dump them afterwards.  I don't know. I do not live in a big city. I live in a rural area. I just put them in a couple of grocery bags and walk them down to the lake about a mile from here and release them.  I figure the only thing I can do is kill them so I stick to snap traps. I'd rather let them go but nobody I know has any good ideas Yeah snap traps are really the most effective way to catch them. Just leave them all over the edges of the walls everywhere, and the mice walk right over them. 

You could get an aquarium and fit it for rodents and raise the little guys. They are awful cute. 

Cedar chips, some carrots, take a pic = karma I love the idea, but you really need a long term solution. How are they getting in? Fix that. That's what I'm gonna end up doing. I only just tried this last night.  There's a hole somewhere...find it, fix it and forget it.  I did end up finding it! Haven't caught any more since plugging it up.  There was more "I once had to kill a mouse with my bare hands, and I loved every second of it!" than I expected. OP goes "found a cute way to trap a mouse!" reddit goes "let me tell you about the time I fucking stomped on one of those fuckers heads".  The best traps are electrical traps. Little cave with food at one end and when the little shit goes inside to eat it gets electrocuted.  except when the current is too high and the guy explodes.  What did you hook it up to a car battery? 16 8v batteries.  Sounds like it's time to move. Even better.

How many amps can a mouse take without exploding? That's way better than [what I tried...](http://youtu.be/ZIalNHin5sg) I can't believe I've actually watched this movie. Haven't seen it in years.  Didn't know Blake Griffin was in it lmao  It's an excellent movie. This movie is probably one of my favorite childhood movies. I still own it on VHS.

Oh, *Mouse Hunt*...

Edit: formatting  I must have watched it half a dozen times. Don't know why I liked it so much One of my favs. As a kid, I always just thought it was a really well trained mouse. Like, 'swinging from light strings'/'balancing food on his head' good. It's still an enjoyable movie though. Holy shit, good job man. Hey, thanks! It really was a fun project.

*Edit*: Wow! I am feeling really good about my job right now. Thank you all for the support! **Feel free to PM me as well and I will answer all your questions in time.**

*Edit*: Although I handle real gold every day I have never received some from reddit! Thank you friends! 
  Thank you for sharing this, I have a question for you if that is ok? 

My wedding ring has rougher edges that is part of the design, it digs into my finger and causes cuts enough that I don't wear it. Only my engagement and a few anniversary rings. Would a jeweler be able to smooth out the edges so I could wear it again? Probably a silly question, as I don't have a photo. It is platinum.  Send it to OP.  He'll put it in the garbage disposal and fix it right up.  So you're saying OP is a mathematician?  He would solve the new problem by reducing it to a previously solved one? Not OP but if you go to a smaller jeweler they will have the ability to do it.  I am sure Zales or any of the bigger chains can do it but they will be pretty pricey and probably try to convince you to buy something else. Zales or any of the bigger guys will try to buy the ring for pennies on the dollar an then sell you a new one for thousands.  And if you do convince them to fix it, they will overcharge you and send it to one of the little jewelers to do the work anyway.

So yes, go to the family owned place first.

Source: son of a jeweler. Yes! Go small business. 

Source: daughter of a jeweler.  Now kith Hey they could be siblings.  ...and? /r/wincest You family shops are the best. I only go in to my local shop maybe once every few years or so and the owner always remembers me. When they moved a few blocks away, they called their customers personally to let them know.  Thanks, that's a great idea.  My dad is retired now but my uncle still runs the store.  The location has moved a couple times, I wonder if he's done that.  Business has been rough lately. Absolutely, but go to a nice independent jeweler that does on-site repairs for faster service and better prices. We do this service at my store for about $30. Great job on the ring!  Looks good as new.

How did reattaching the finger go? The jeweler wouldn't do that, dummy. You go to the dentist for that.  You did an amazing job! Just one question.. How did the diamond break? My assumption being that the diamonds on the ring are stronger than the blades on the inside of the garbage disposal.  &gt;the diamonds on the ring are stronger than the blades

Harder, yes. Stronger, no. Diamonds are brittle. What about faster? Better?  Better, yes.  Faster, no.  Diamonds don't like racing. You're actually more right than you know. One of the limitations of diamond-tipped cutting gear is that if it spins fast enough, the heat can actually "burn off" the carbon in the diamond. For these applications [Boron nitride](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Boron_nitride) works better. Or you put the drill in reverse!
Then the heat goes to the drill not the tip

Edit:
Source: facebook well there's a source provided, so this must be right. But then you'd be putting material back on to whatever you're reverse drilling! I guess that's how 3D printing works. I don't know enough about diamonds to refute this. Damn, you just reminded me of that original and brilliant song from Kanye West. What a masterpiece. I haven't heard that song since OJ wore Isotoners. you mean since Prince was on Apollonia? Don't act like I never told ya.... Yeah, and I can't believe Daft Punk tried to take his sick beats and make it seem like it was actually theirs.  That made me hurt a little inside.  There are a lot of great responses below in the comments. I believe it was the force that caused them the break, in fact I have broken a few diamonds during my apprenticeships. Thankfully nothing too big!  Diamonds are rather brittle, actually. ^ Exactly, brittle, but very hard.

Edit: By hard, I'm referring to Mohs scale. is that why you can smash them with an iron pickaxe? Yeah, but it's less likely if you use a rune pick. Man I was thinking Minecraft until I read this. I miss Runescape... Whatever you do don't play runescape 3 they have turned your childhood fun into a massive micro transaction game I can't even see the screen through all the transactions they throw in your face. diamonds in general are not perfect, they may have inherent microscopic defects.  hitting it hard enough with anything would crack them. Ive got to say, metal working is one of the most useful hobbies ive ever picked up. This photo thread makes me wish I had a garage so I had my own tools. 

I used to cut and buff the fuck out of stainless till it looked like silver, and make jewelry for my ex's. Cheap as hell, and way more meaningful than something store bought.  Amazing.  I had no idea that could be accomplished.  I would have put that puppy in a drawer and forgotten about it. Wouldn't the barking and whining get annoying after a while? It would stop, eventually.. :( :'( &amp;nbsp;&amp;nbsp;&amp;nbsp;_ :) _

&amp;nbsp;&amp;nbsp;&amp;nbsp;&amp;nbsp;&amp;nbsp;&amp;nbsp;|

&amp;nbsp;&amp;nbsp;&amp;nbsp;&amp;nbsp;&amp;nbsp;/\ Username checks out some people see a side ways head on a stick figure, I see an arrow pointing to crosshairs for a potential headshot  Yeah I used to need glasses too. but he has special eyes "With your donations you can help a puppy that was thrown in a drawer and forgotten about." - Sarah Mclachlan In the aaaaarrmmmsss offfff  an angel.... That's our motto in emergency medicine.  All bleeding stops eventually.  

Another good one is "don't recognize the rhythm on the EKG?  shock it until it turns into something you recognize." Can I not have you when I'm bleeding out? I hope you recognize more than the rhythm of dead people on the EKG PSA, and if you're just joking, I apologize, but every time you've seen someone use a defibrillator on someone in a movie or TV show when they've flat lined, you've seen a *lie*.

You don't shock people when they flat line, as the purpose of shocking someone is to disrupt a pattern that isn't sufficient to pump blood (ventricular fibrillation, and pulseless ventricular tachycardia). When someone flat lines, you can't shock to disrupt a pattern, because there is no pattern to disrupt. Defibrillation doesn't start a non-beating heart back up, and yet its shown that way in *every single medical show I've ever seen*. Grr.

Anyway. Personal vendetta of mine to break that myth. Sorry you got in the crosshairs for it.
 Well, you're mostly right: if the patient is in asystole, then shocking won't help. Sometimes, however they can be in fine v-fib that looks pretty much the same on the monitor. In practice, if you've run out of options in a code, it's not a bad idea to try defibrillation before calling it.  And CPR works every time. I'm not even in the medical field and this bugs the hell out of me. Hubba hubba hubba hubba hubba seriously. Where/how did you learn your craft, OP? I started in high school working for my uncle who was a goldsmith. I then apprenticed many years under a few different "masters" until I had the skills to go out on my own.  Well now I know where to go to get jewelry fixed. Where are you located? [one does not simply](http://img2.wikia.nocookie.net/__cb20140427122513/lotr/images/9/9f/Sauron_eye_barad_dur.jpg) OP is Sauron.  OP what happened to the rings you gave the dwarves and Elves? Actually sauron wasn't involved in the forging of the elvish rings hence why they remained uncorrupted. They're now owned by Elrond, Galadriel, and Gandalf. 4 of the dwarvish rings were destroyed and the rest were recaptured by Sauron. True. And the races of men.  The Nazgul are the 9 men who were given rings the elven rings are held by galadriel, elrond and gandalf. this is revealed in the end of the books, and I think they are shown in the movie, but not mentioned.

the dwarven rings? who knows, at the bottom of that pile over by the wall? Correction: OP is Celebrimbor.  Celebrimbor made the 19, but Sauron made the One, didn't he? Damn, even though he showed all the pictures, I STILL don't believe it. pictures are totally in reverse...don't lie OP, you destroyed a marriage! If only fixing marriage was that easy.  It could be. Start with the most glaring problems...shape the marriage into something that works for both of you. Fill the wounds of resentment. Polish that thing up!  Oh, you're one of *those* handymen, that give out sage like advice.

How do I know for sure that you aren't Jesus? Cause he works jewelry not wood. I work wood. ;) Ey bby The truest repairman will repair man. I'm getting more of a Ron Swanson vibe from him. op ur a cool guy Dear diary, today OP was pretty cool With all this gold work, I thought that there would be more reddit gold given in this thread. Be the change you want to see in the world http://youtu.be/wXw6znXPfy4 Oh my god, I shouldn't have laughed but I couldn't help myself. She was already half Polish.  Wait... you're ruining comedy with your optimism and good advice! Try telling that to Jenny.  Often, it's the hammering that *ruins* the marriage. Can confirm;

Dan hammered my wife and it ruined our marriage. My sister got dumped because she was always hammered. But no hammering ruins it too.  Gotta hammer it just right. Instructions unclear, dick stuck in garbage disposal OP's next customer ^ *gets the hammer* No worries. OP can fix it.  My engagement was ruined by my ex getting nailed by other hammers.  

Hahaha... Awww :/ Zach hammered my wife... Bang! Bang! Maxwell's silver hammer came down on her head!

Bang! Bang! Maxwell's silver hammer made sure that she was dead! That didn't seem too easy... *waits* for reality TV jeweler competition series.   Bling Wars. I hate myself for knowing I'd watch the shit out of that.  Pimp my Pimp.  Bling Boss I honestly think about this all the time. How it would work, how you would be judged, etc.  Very cool, and good work as well.

How much would something like this cost? Also, how long would it take? Thank you! He paid a bit over $500 for the whole thing, diamonds included. It was very much worth it to him as its been his wedding ring for a long time. I can't remember exactly how long it took but I finished it in one work day  I heard it had a sentimental value to him because he got it on the same day he married his wife. What a romantic. What a coincidence! Wow, what are the odds? Oh wow that's cheap.  I thought something like that would run much higher.  To be honest it was a pretty good deal. Truth be told when I saw the condition of the ring I *needed* to fix it.....*my precious...* [OP be like..] (http://i.imgur.com/pkgViXd.gifv) Yea, no kidding. I'd say at least $1000. If you think that is too high, you're more than welcome to do it yourself. OP seems very sentimental so maybe he gave him a great deal. Word of mouth is more valuable to a local independent goldsmith than maximizing 1 time profits I'm a construction contractor so I know this all too well. But at the same time, if no one is willing to pay the $1000 then your missing next months rent. 

Or even worse... The Internet bill D: One work day? That is very impressive! How much did those two diamonds cost? Could you break down the cost analysis?  Recently I purchased a desktop Laser welder for my jewelry business, it makes jobs like these much easier and quicker, definitely worth the money Why didn't you just put it back in the disposal but in reverse mode? Seems like it would've been easier  Just like backing out of a car accident!  Police officers are clearly not engineers. When I tried this, they called it a "hit and run" and said I had to "appear in court" If you ran, how would they expect to see you in court?

Checkmate po po.  Loooooong telescope. Why do they think you're a magician? How are you to simply 'appear' in this court you speak of?  /r/shittyaskscience  Can I hire you? Hire him in reverse mode -- he pays you. Should have set it to W for Wumbo Thought I was on /r/DIY for a minute, and I was thinking 

*who the hell has this type of tooling just lying around?!*

Then I saw I was on /r/pics and felt instantly better about my ability to do none of what OP did

Really neat process OP!  thank you for sharing! Haha, glad i'm not the only one.. i started out thinking holy shit this dude is pretty damn good at this for just "trying out a project"..as he went on i was like well fuck its convenient he has all these tools for this specific purpose..is he a jeweler for his real job? It took all the way to the end for me to figure out he is actually a professional doing this and wasnt a DIY. I think the implied bag full of diamonds did it for me. You don't have a bag full of diamonds? Yeah I saw the first pictures and was thinking to myself, "Like fucking hell this dude is going to 'fix' this ring.  It's all sorts of fucked."  

Frickin jewelers man. Yeah, thread was much more fun when I thought he was the owner and was trying to quickly become a jewelry smith before his angry wife could notice the absence of his ring. I'd love to see the owners reaction. Probably something [like this.](http://i.imgur.com/GzrxVXi.jpg) Haha! It was actually pretty close to this.  When I finally had the money, i had my jeweler do some work on my engagement ring to do some minor fixes so that it looked like what I had intended all along, but Zales couldn't seem to understand. He took the time to draw it out, and charged me 400.00. I got it back, all buffed and perfect and broke down in tears. It was what I'd always wanted, 18 years later. Local jewelers rock. :) Agreed.  Worked with a local jeweler to design the engagement ring I gave to my wife.  Went back for the custom wedding bands for her and I.  Fast forward a few months later, wedding is 3 weeks away and I lose my job; hadn't picked up nor paid for the bands yet.  Talked to the jeweler, he gave me the bands on just a promise to pay.  Was out of work 2 months, but did pay for the bands eventually.  Went back for our 5 year anniversary and had him add some more diamonds to her ring.  Had always planned on having them, just couldn't' afford them originally. I couldn't hope for a better reaction. Ive worked in jewelry creation.  You are a bad ass what you did was amazing work Jeweler here, and agreed. If this wasn't soft gold we wouldn't be seeing him make these kinds of repair, more like he'd be remaking the ring. I think fixing it is more impressive, but I wonder about any potential weak points in the ring now, but hell, if those weak points become critical at any point while the ring is on that guy has bigger problems.  I'd assume he annealed it once in awhile.
 Fixing it is definitely more impressive, because it's so much more work. Plus, this ring is asymmetrical and has a channel of stones. 

I haven't witnessed gold channel work firsthand, but I imagine gold bands are similar to silver ones - although I suppose it depends on what type of gold is being used. A lot of people wouldn't believe how fast a master smith can make bands. The silversmith who made my silver wedding band was from Pakistan, and from ingot to polished ring the entire process took 60 seconds. It was absolutely amazing to watch. Plot twist: Wife is pissed. She tossed it down the disposal on purpose. Jenny? YOUR USERNAME AND YOUR REPLY ARE HUMOROUSLY AT ODDS meanwhile yours are right on point All the while, you're just simply and plainly being Garak. and you are...a tailor? Certainly not a spy... I love the satisfaction restoration provides, and I'm sure your client was super jazzed too. Awesome job.  That's a guys wedding band? I've never seen one with diamonds before.  Well yeah, every kiss begins with K(evin). Every poop begins with pee. My dad's has one itty bitty diamond right in the center. It's almost comical to me. Although the diamond did fall out a few years ago. He never got it replaced because he never wears his ring anymore anyways.  :( Not OP's dad, but I don't wear my ring.  It doesn't mean my marriage isn't happy, just that rings annoy me and I prefer not wearing it and my spouse doesn't give a flying fuck. Mine has a row of diamonds :/  Just wanted something a little flashier than a plain boring band. It wasn't a critique, I just didn't know that was a thing.  I specifically wanted a plain boring band, but I like a more minimalistic approach.

...also it reminds me of the One Ring. My husband has a row on his as well. He modeled it after his grandfather's ring.  My husband's first wedding ring has 5 diamonds in it. &gt; My husband's first wedding ring has 5 diamonds in it

First?  We lose them sometimes. Husbands or rings? How did a garbage disposal ruin a diamond? thought they we supposed to be the hardest things in the world.
 Diamonds are *hard* which is the scientific term for them being able to resist permanent deformation from different types of forces. For diamonds in particular it usually means the ability to be scratch resistant. But that doesn't mean it could handle other forces like torsion or shear.

Think about glass, its more difficult to scratch glass than aluminum. But if I were to hut both with a hammer, the glass would be more likely to break.

edit: most upvoted comment, by a *landslide* haha this is an awesome explanation!

Have an up vote! [Yes!](http://33.media.tumblr.com/9e3f811a4b9a4319f825a3546200ae26/tumblr_mn9dreuyHD1ql6dbio2_500.gif) [my thoughts exactly](http://i.giphy.com/GXM4CrMmQho0E.gif) You can even burn diamonds, which I think is kinda cool. *"Hard"* doesn't mean it's difficult to destroy. Things that are *"hard"* are difficult to deform but easy to break (apart). *"Soft"* things are easy to deform but difficult to break.  
Sponge is softer than a brick - you can deform it with your bare hands. But if you hit both with a hammer, only the brick will break. Toughness != Hardness [Diamonds are actually the most resistant things in the world to crushing forces also](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Diamond_anvil_cell), *except along cleavage planes*.  Imagine a stack of playing cards bonded with a glue stick, they resist force well in every direction but one.  

Also, the girdle of the diamond is a third of a millimeter thick, and the culet is a point.  A crack can begin at either and propagate throughout. So I was googling air hostesses to make a joke about your cleavage plane and stumbled across this. 

http://i.imgur.com/3mz2iyN.jpg

Why do my eyes keep glancing at his legs?! Scarred for life. != != =!

Edit: comment above originally used =! != &lt;&gt; =! A ring like this could only be destroyed in the fires of Mount Doom. Or you know, maybe another drop down the garbage disposal. ;-) I want a remake of lotr where they just throw the ring into the garbage disposal now. I feel like somewhere in the middle there was a step I missed...

1-5... Reshaping, hammering, heat.....  got it
6-14.. looking a little better.. Still thinking ok ok this is about what I would expect.
15-16.. Apply buffing and sprinkle magic dust... How the hell did we get to 16.  

Felt very much like draw the owl at that point.  

Impressive job!! Buffing does some crazy shit. We used to buff small change in our spare time for fun. Someone had the idea of buffing coins, then selling them in rolls to rappers for 2x face value. Bling change. So all their coins would be the illest. 
Fun fact:  [14K gold does not contain enough gold to be legally considered "gold" in some countries such as France, Italy and Switzerland](http://gold.yabz.com/measurements.htm) Not really fun but thanks for sharing.  If it makes you feel any better, solid gold is very soft.  Your ring would look like that by the end of a week if it were made of solid gold.  They add other metals to make it stronger and more durable. I'm having a lot of fun. Until the last image I thought OP had lost his ring in the grinders. And just decided to whoop out all the jewelers equipment he had lying around to fix it. Like it was the most natural thing in the world. I'm surprised no one has asked about how much you charge for such a repair.

To that end: How much did you charge for such a repair?

Edit: At the time of this edit only thirty five people have replied to this post advising that OP replied to this question on another comment thread and that he charged the gentleman $500. If another fifty or so people reply to this post saying the same thing then I will believe them. He answered a little farther up. It was about $500 including the diamonds. As a consumer I am shocked and appalled by the shoddy craftsmanship of modern jewelers, it took 3 books,a hobbit, and a volcano, to destroy a ring crafted by the great Sauron, and yet a garbage disposal unit can absolutely destroy this wedding ring.I honestly haven't seen a bigger mess made of a once pristine ring since Peters Jacksons hobbit trilogy. I'm trying really hard not to nerd out on you explaining how wildly inaccurate your comparison is but I'mma hold back. Is the ring more likely to break or warp now that it's been bent back and forth a few times? BTW, fantastic job on the fix! not sure if this applies to gold, but with silver you can make it more bendable by heating it gently (well, gentlyish. You'd get bad burns if you were heated the same way...), but the act of reshaping it (like how OP was using a hammer and mandrel) actually restores it to its normal tough state.

source: I did a workshop once If anything it is going to be stronger. It goes through a process called strain hardening.  14kt is 14 parts gold, 10 parts alloy so it's much stronger than 18kt or 24.   It wears best of the 3 for things like rings that take a lot of beatings.  With the added gold, it would be as strong as the original. I got to do a similar job repairing a flute that got hit by a truck on the highway. Very fun stuff. now that I would love to have seen a similar post about.  &gt; flute that got "hit by a truck on the highway"

One time at band camp.... What was the damage like? Sorry for the late reply. I suck with the reddit inbox.  It was crushed. The head crown on the headjoint maintained a wide enough gap to at least separate the metal. I used a mandrel very similar to OP's. The body and footjoint werent as bad, but I did have to replace the hinge pins, springs and posts. The tubes expanded a bit from the mandrel, so it wasnt perfect, but it was damn close to perfect after being a pancake. So you are Ron Swanson [People who buy things are suckers.](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XDNwISwkqRk&amp;noredirect=1) [People who buy things are suckers] (https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xKR5kk1rZTY) Dat buffing wheel. I would buff so much shit with that. I wanna apply it to my teeth, for science. It's kinda hard to buff shit - it tends to disintegrate and spread everywhere. buff the wood? Smithing levelled to 100. He had the gloves of smithing on as well must be + 10 are you daniel day lewis? That........ is really impressive. I've done minor work with jewelry, so I know how freaking difficult that must have been. I've made rings out of coins so I'm basically an expert.  [deleted] Do you want Entmoots? cause that's how you get entmoots. According to Peter Jackson the ring of power was totally made with a cuttlefish casting.  I do.. I used it to crack ice last night instead of size rings. It's clearly getting use around my house. I like to think that OP showed us the pictures in reverse, and he actually just destroyed their wedding ring for karma Great job OP. Did you have to use a "poorer" alloy of gold for the repair? I guess 14K has a lower fusion point than 18K. Thanks for sharing!

edit: you should x-post to /r/metalworking  The ring was 14kt so I will always match what the ring is. Thank you for your comment!  Beautiful, I bet whoever owned this ring was very happy, I know I would be! It looks amazing. Ur not a filipino right???got confuse with ur name bro.... :) He speaks fluent Tagalog. Served an LDS Mission in Olongapo. [Any moron with a crucible, an acetylene torch, and a cast iron waffle maker could have done the same...](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xKR5kk1rZTY) Are you a wizard Step 1: Hammer the ring back into a round shape

Step 2: Repair the rest of the fucking ring what were the blades on the garbage disposal made of? diamond?:P I really want to watch a video of this  It was a bit tricky given the fact that I work alone! It was hard to capture the process without someone filming me so I did the best I cpuld!  Still bad ass hopefully on the next one you will get some help and be able to capture some footage. If you do let me know please. Really excellent job by the way  You sir, are a true expert of your craft!! I would imagine that many people would just say "sorry, that's too badly damaged" and pass it off... Great work, I'm sure he was amazed how well it came out  Thank you! Having a passion for my line of work has really helped me progress and want to take on any challenge. Thanks to nice folk like yourself that passion has grown even stronger!  I'll keep that in mind if my ring ever makes it down a disposal! Haha So the photographer is dead now? no, he just got a little hurt Gorilla's muscle density is something like 5 times that of a man (I think). That was a love tap if he only got a little hurt.  Based on the gorillas positioning, it looks like more of a slap with a closed fist rather than a punch. It wouldn't be nearly as bad as a punch (edit: if a gorilla could punch) but it could probably ~~bruise~~ fuck up his face pretty badly or something.

edit: There, fixed for all you pedants. ;) I doubt wild Gorillas know how to punch properly.  We could teach them.  but they would only use it for gorilla warfare.  
(faint) thank you. Hi Dad. How bout you hi dad that grass out there? It isn't going to cut itself. Unlike your sister. Slaaam! thanks for that. That's still not as bad as a talking gorilla riding a horse with an automatic machine gun in either hand.

Edit: Fixed typo. Don't do that. We'll be dead, Kiddo. [sigh](http://i.imgur.com/3UzajUb.gif) Oh yeah, why don't you show the giant, wild mountain gorilla how it's done, clefton.  Well just look at it. It doesn't look angry, just looks like it's tired of Bob's shit and figures it's time to knock his ass down to teach him a lesson about personal space I doubt the majority of humans know how to punch properly haha Can confirm, broke my hand punching... Curl fingers tight, thumb on the outside, hit with the first two knuckles, keep a straight line between knuckles, wrist and elbow. Hit their squishy bits. Avoid punching elbows, knees, skulls, teeth or buttocks (it's the exception to the rule regarding squishy bits). haha haha haha They, and chimps are better at it than us. It's been shown that they naturally punch past their target, where most people without training punch at their target.  Are you an expert on the subject of gorilla warfare? Don't  make up things. They're stronger because of leverages and their muscle mass. No they get strong by throwing barrels at Italian plumbers The Photographer right now: http://i.imgur.com/cpl6t6x.gifv RIP in peace photographer F &gt; RIP in pieces Neat how they salvaged the camera WORLDSTAR!!! Jeez. Look at those eyes. His facial expression, with that slightly bit lip. He  just looks like he's about to show the photographer how he keeps his pimp hand strong.  "I told you no cameras, bitch!" "What did the five fingers say to the face?!" S...L...A (gets slapped) Darkness! Unity! YTINU That was *cold blooded* "First of all you don't slap a man. I mean, even when slapping was fashionable, they'd do it in Paris like 'Whapap! I challenge you to a duel!' They would have a gun fight after that! I mean, somebody had to go!" "Cocaine's a hell of a drug." "CHARLIE MURPHY!!" Fuck yo couch They never shoulda gave you n***az any money!!! Darkness everybody....Darkness is spreading HOW CAN SHE SLAP?! **Bastard, Bloody Bastard.** Those are [drunken](http://avaxnews.net/fact/A_Drunk_Mountain_Gorilla.html) eyes.

&gt; Mountain Gorilla, Dominant Silver Back (Gorilla gorilla beringei) completely drunk due to the consumtion of new bamboo stems which cause a fermentation in their stomack and make the gorillas drunk, including the young ones. This behaviour, sometimes crazy, occurs during the rain season, when the bamboos stems are growing very quickly, and are extremely rich in proteins and are very attractive. In such situation the gorillas are extremelly active and playfull, the Silver back can develops strange behaviour and hit the visitors on their way. Kwitonda Group, Volcanoes National Park, Rwanda. (Photo by Christophe Courteau) This explains why pandas spend their lives rolling around on the ground, not doing anything productive with their lives, like keeping their population from extinction. So pandas can suffer from whisky dick as well? Mystery solved WE DID IT REDDIT!! Quick, somebody start a kickstarter to ship coffee and Waffle House food to China!  Ah, Reddit is *so* good at solving mysteries Actually, did you know Jello Biafra, of all people, wrote a piece on just this very issue? Here's the [link to it](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=l7TWLxCIgwE). There was a gilded comment from a panda biologist a while back that explained that, basically, no, pandas aren't too lazy / drunk / careless to keep the species alive 

Pandas, like many other mammals, go into estrus on a schedule, and reproduce just fine in the wild.

The problem is that we are detroying their habitat, which interferes with their reproduction habits and schedule, and we stick them in zoos, which interferes with their reproduction habits and schedule.

They reproduce just fine to keep their population from extinction, as long as humans aren't destroying their habitat and food sources and interrupting their sexytimes and their ability to raise their young.

[bam](https://www.reddit.com/r/todayilearned/comments/2rmf6h/til_that_part_of_the_reason_it_is_so_hard_to_get/cnhjokr) So this gorilla got drunk and punched a stranger?  

What a douchebag. It's like Jersey Shore : Zimbabwe Rwanda. It literally says that in the parent comment. 

 Wow, I wish I could get drunk off of eating bamboo stems! Lucky gorillas. We have beer you know. Way easier to ingest and find than bamboo.  Now I wanna know if we can use and distill liquor from bamboo.  I suppose you could, like rice or any other plant matter (wheat, potatoes, etc.)

TIL I want bamboo booze.

edit: words and stuff, as pointed out by the illustrious /u/FriendsWithAPopstar bambooze Bamboozled - *past transitive verb* - to become inebriated by the consumption of spirits distilled from bamboo or related evergreen plants. 

If selfie and twerk can become real words in the dictionary, so can this.  Might I purchase a growler from your bamboo ale reserves? There was a story I'll try and find about a guy who was getting drunk eating bread. He had a yeast growing in his stomach that would react with the bread, ferment and make him drunk.

EDIT: Yup, here it is. It's called auto-brewery syndrome. http://www.npr.org/blogs/thesalt/2013/09/17/223345977/auto-brewery-syndrome-apparently-you-can-make-beer-in-your-gut Officer: How many have you had?

Auto-brewer: About half a loaf. A pimp named slickback A pimp named Silverback hello mr slickback Its like "A Tribe Called Quest", ya say tha whole thang. His jimmies were definitely rustled. He keeps his chimp hand strong... Did you know that mountain gorillas were thought to be mythical until as late as 1902? I did not, but to be honest, a quick searched didn't confim that. Do you have a source? Then i could save it in my brain as a TIL [Here](http://www.popularmechanics.com/science/environment/real-or-fake-the-kraken-and-other-creatures-of-uncertain-status-7#slide-7) is a very brief snippet.

[Here](http://www.newscientist.com/article/mg18825192.200-histories-gorillas-i-presume.html) is another one.

Unfortunately, anything more detailed than that appears to be behind a paywall. &gt;Before 1847, the word "gorilla" does not appear in English. The explanation is simple: before 1847 the gorilla was more a rumour than a fact. There had been a few reports from Africa of strange and fearsome beings. The Carthaginian navigator Hanno wrote in the 5th century BC of an "island, full of savage people, the greater part of whom were women, whose bodies were hairy, and whom our interpreters called Gorillae". He caught three. In 1625, a book recounting the Angolan adventures of English seaman Andrew Batell described a "monster" covered in hair except on the face and hands, which slept in trees and lived on fruit - "In all proportion like a man, but that he is more like a giant in stature." Yet no one knew if these creatures really existed. 

It's such a different world.  A world unknown where you must use word of mouth and your imagination to know what's going on in other places.  Today pictures and videos fly across the web.  If there's no photo, we don't believe you.  And even if there is a photo, sometimes its a fake!  Different worlds. it must've been such a magical world back then, where the world was so big and unknown.  nowadays that kind of feeling just doesn't really exist anymore, except for things like outer space where there is so much we dont know yet. Right?

I will see an animal like a kangaroo and when I really think about it the kangaroo looks strange as hell.

Same with giraffes.

Stupid kids books taking the fun out of the zoo. Imagine you could erase all knowledge you had about animals, then visit the zoo high as fuck. Probably the closest you could get to the feeling of visiting another world. This will definitely be a thing.

As soon as someone figures it out this WILL be a thing.

It has too.

It would be impossible for us to have the ability to erase certain memories (temporarily) and then have this not exist.


Now that I think about it erasing certain memories would be a huge business. 10/10, thank you very much! Would be a better world if all of reddit would deliver like that.

TIL: gorillas were thought to be mythical until as late as 1902. Do you have a source for that?  [Here](http://www.popularmechanics.com/science/environment/real-or-fake-the-kraken-and-other-creatures-of-uncertain-status-7#slide-7) is a very brief snippet.

[Here](http://www.newscientist.com/article/mg18825192.200-histories-gorillas-i-presume.html) is another one.

Unfortunately, anything more detailed than that appears to be behind a paywall. 10/10, thank you very much! Would be a better world if all of reddit would deliver like that.

TIL: gorillas were thought to be mythical until as late as 1902.
 Do you have a source for that?

 Nope.

Edit: Obligatory Gold edit. /r/lounge is 10/10. 0/10, fuck you very much! Would be a better world if all of reddit wouldn't deliver like that. It's really remarkable to think that they were apparently mistaken for savage humans. That almost even puts the centuries of massive European racism in perspective Orangutan means "Forest People" in Malay, IIRC.

Funny to think that people will still deny that we're apes after calling other apes weird humans. Could you imagine in 100 years someone saying, "Did you know in 2015 Sasquatches were thought to be mythical?" An average gorilla can bench press 650 pounds. I want so badly to believe scientists brought gorillas to the gym to test this. A couple of scientists in sleeveless t-shirt and snap-back standing in front of a bench press, provoking the subject.

"Do you even lift brah?" Test 43.2:  
  
The results of this final test were very conclusive. They have shown that, a gorilla can, in fact, lift.  
  
Signed,  
Dr Whey, of the Swole research facility Did you know that as of 2015 the indigenous primates of the American Pacific Northwest are *still* considered mythical? Oh not the fucking bigfoot pitch again... Jesus Neal. I've heard the same about fisher cats being considered a myth until even later. What in the world is a Fisher cat? I think it looks like a large ferret and it shrieks in the middle of the night. Most people think it sounds like a screaming woman.
[Found a nice screaming video. Well, the screaming starts at 1:40](https://www.youtube.com/watch?x-yt-ts=1421828030&amp;x-yt-cl=84411374&amp;v=n-GcSbwYRgw#t=108) "Fucking Paparazzi." Did you know gorillas wear the same clothes every time they go out, in order to frustrate paparazzi? here is the [Story](http://avaxnews.net/fact/A_Drunk_Mountain_Gorilla.html) with pictures from another perspective My workplace web filter is blocking the pictures, presumably of gorillas, for "provocative attire".

... It's the nipples yo  Stupid sexy gorilla nipples. "Feels like I'm wearing nothing at all...^nothing ^at ^all... ^^nothing ^^at ^^all... " Well, it is a very unclothed gorilla.  Not gonna lie.  ~~Why~~ How do they all seem so casual about it? http://i.imgur.com/eewdUaM.gif The gorilla. "Bitch, I see you. Get out of there. You ain't foolin' nobody." That's how I took it as well. Just calling him out on picking a bad hiding spot. goddamn campers. That look I like his resignation while being dragged. He knows it's futile, *Ok. I'm going with the gorilla now.* 

Then it lets go and he's so confused *Wait what? I'm alive?* I think he's keeping calm on purpose. Going all crazy in front of a gorilla won't exactly help your chance of reaching home alive. What the hell else are you going to do with an 800 lbs drunk gorilla? Freak out would just get you killed.  &gt;  800 lbs drunk gorilla

Looks more like 400lb to me (http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/800_pound_gorilla) That was really cool to learn thank you for sharing  What would you do with a drunk gorilla, 

What would you do with a drunk gorilla, 

What would you do with a drunk gorilla 

Early in the morn' 

 /r/seashanties  I've been playing AssCreed: Black Flag and absolutely love the shanties! This is a treat and thank you Ass Creed.  Mmmm. Glad that one actually exists, now I have some content to look firsts to on downtime Take his picture right before he hits ya

Take his picture right before he hits ya

Take his picture right before he hits ya

Early in the mornin Hey, whoa, bad gorilla!

Hey, whoa, bad gorilla!

Hey, whoa, bad gorilla!

Earl-eye in the marn-in! Put him in the jungle 'til he's sober,  
Put him in the jungle 'til he's sober,  
Put him in the jungle 'til he's sober,   
Earl-eye in the mornin'.

Throw him the village with the chieftain's daughter,  
Throw him the village with the chieftain's daughter,  
Throw him the village with the chieftain's daughter,  
Earl-eye in the mornin'. You guys made my morning. Thank you. &gt; You guys made my marn-in. Thank you.

 Shit my pants and scream like a woman

Shit my pants and scream like a woman

Shit my pants and scream like a woman

Early in the mornin
 See how much an inch can wreck ya

See how much an inch can wreck ya

See how much an inch can wreck ya

Early in the mornin. Way hay and up she rises

Way hay and up she rises

Way hay and up she rises

Early in the morn




Shave his belly with a rusty razor

Shave his belly with a rusty razor

Shave his belly with a rusty razor

Early in the morn



 I had to sing it out loud to make sure it worked. Guys: It checks out.  Gorillas are actually pretty docile. It's chimps you gotta worry about. Yep. A gorilla will punch you, but a chimp will rip your face and testicles off.   Stop gorilla racism. How do you expect that to make a difference without hashtagging it??? \#NotAllChimps Did you not see Congo? Those were white gorillas though [White gorillas are the violent ones? That's racist!](http://rhrealitycheck.org/wp-content/uploads/2014/10/thatsracist.gif) Orangutans man. Mother fuckers can break you in half. They also seem the most mello.  Like, Meh I know I COULD fuck you up but why would I?  And behind that facade they're the only one of the apes that will rape you rather than just beat you up. See also: humans. Those are some messed up mother fuckers Unless you call them a monkey, then they'll leave you wondering if you just got hit by a donkey cart. Till he gets all wasted on bamboo and starts flexing giant gorilla beer muscles. Fighting back would give the impression that you're challenging the silverback's dominance, being casual about it shows submission, makes the gorilla less likely to become properly violent. You know, I really meant "how" are they being so casual, but this sounds right on. Thanks. The how is out of necessity.. Basically if they aren't casual, they get their ass kicked by a gorilla. :D Casual! I was livid!

Fucking paparazzi

Not The Nine O'Clock News - Gerald the gorilla: http://youtu.be/beCYGm1vMJ0 Dude the real story here is that the Gorilla was drunk.  From bamboo wine.  which ferments in their belly.  even the young ones.  I see a business opportunity here. The gorilla was drunk on bamboo!?! That's awesome/terrifying.  [deleted] Incredibly relevant username  [deleted] you mean like [that](http://i.imgur.com/T2Bpjds.jpg)?

from [/user/drphildobaggins](http://www.reddit.com/user/drphildobaggins) in /r/photoshopbattles [deleted] The image is now a lie. It's perfect as the base for a meme now! Someone rustled his jimmies... [No need to be upset](http://media.giphy.com/media/gL0e2WWBGzUnC/giphy.gif). [You gotta mow before you can fly, bro.](http://i.imgur.com/U22S6zg.gif) Swings to wide....really telegraphing his strikes. Because what the world really needs is gorillas trained in martial arts. I would buy a well put together ppv involving a gorilla trained in boxing and an orang bjj black belt. Orang Gracie VS Gorilla Nelson

Love it Dat orangutan reach. He can slap him from the other side of the octagon. Imagine what gorillas would be like with tailored diets, aggressive training regimen and martial training... Terrifying. I once read a factoid that it's believed, with training, they might bench 2000 lbs.

It would look like bad wire fu movies. But for real. The opponent gets tossed 50ft through the air, hits a concrete wall which crumbles... [The bears already know how](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Ghgg_fukbvU) [Half way there](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jo_DmKT8Ims) yeah the photographer is gonna have like 3 seconds to press X to dodge *too Appropriate username "Bro! It's just a prank bro!" I thought there was a fist halfway down his arm at first. There was not :( That is his fist. What looks like "the rest" of his arm is another gorilla behind him.  Seriously? What the hell is that thing? It looks exactly like a fist with 4 fingers and a thumb, right where his elbow should bend in.  There's another gorilla behind his arm. Might as well call me JFK cause my mind is blown..  Shit man, Das fucked up That is his fist.  The other fluffy stuff is a gorilla in the background.  Another gorilla, in the background. "Worth it." -Photographer At first, I thought this was a picture of a Skyrim mod. Bobby, Did they ever find that gorilla that escaped from the zoo and punched you In the eye? so are nature photographers the paparazzi of the animal kingdom?  TMZ is actually just a subsidiary of National Geographic.  I'm 90% sure the only reason the photographer isn't dead is because the gorilla was drunk. Gorilla's are fucking strong. *Pow* Right in the kisser "What are you going to do, punch me?" - Photographer seconds before this picture  "stop giving me ebola!! Worldstar! Jimmie status: rustled This kills the photographer. The username for this post is just perfect. [deleted] This is seriously one of the best wildlife pics I've ever seen.  "Woooorld Star!!" KIMBOOOOOO SLICE!!! WORLDSTAR!! reads comments; damn maybe reddit is racist.  WORLDSTAR!!! WORLDSTAR!!! WORLDSTAR!!! I shouldn't have, but yes, I laughed.  Worldstar!!! Lemme guess.  The photographer tried to get him to admit he had never been to the moon and he got sick of it.  Nah. He was trying to take a shot of the gorilla's lady's sex organs. Scummy paps. I was punched by a mountain gorilla once!  I was in Uganda, and we were going out to see the mountain gorillas in a family, and one of them was a teenage male gorilla named "Punchy" in the local language.  Because he liked to play the game teenage males of many species play, called "I punch you and you punch me back."

So I got a play punch- getting dragged away by the guards hurt worse because a real punch if you don't go away really hurts. &gt;  "I punch you and you punch me back."

Did you punch him back at least?  If guerrillas weren't so large and massively strong I would think that would be a fun game to play with them. They seem like playful animals for the most part. Gorillas are the great ape that's almost extinct.  Guerrillas are the humans with guns that are all too common. Gorilla warfare.  You are right. I never was good at spelling correctly. guerilla != gorilla I've already been told this. I get it. I'm not changing it. People know what I meant. Good for you! I think he is just giving that other gorilla a back massage. Nothing to see here I thought he punched the photographer because he was taking picture of his hoes.  Gorillas don't do agriculture. Even mountain gorillas hate the paparazzi.  Ypur username is oddly satisfying for this picture "I'll rustle YOUR jimmies!" I'm bout ta rustle YOUR jimmies This needs a ps battle.  Talk shit get hit. Proof of evolution. If you listen closely you can hear "come at me bro!" Throw a college tee on him and it's basically a spring break frat boy.  WORLD STAR!!!!! He almost has a look like "I get no joy from this violence" The story in case anyone hasn't seen it: http://www.bbc.com/news/world-europe-30710883 Source (link - mirror) for those using ctrl+f Ya know, I used to think that worked until I realized it says "source" beneath literally every comment. Those are not included in the search. Reddit does something fancy with their code to prevent those from showing up when you ctrl+f.
 They are created by RES, so RES must be doing something fancy. Yup.
https://i.imgur.com/BOr8mPp.png Cool, that's really clever. Don't forget the 10 others.  ... and those heavily wounded ... Why were the others killed? The guys attacking came just on the day of the weekly meeting of the newspaper and shot everywhere with kalashnikovs. There were two policemen who protected the newspaper because there had been menaces and they are dead too.  Only one of the cop was from the protection service, protecting Charb. 
The other one was a cop patrolling on bike from a near-by police station.
 One of the Officers was fucking wounded, put his hands up and the fucking animals executed him. According to the French medias, there is between 11-12 dead people + 8 casualties 3-4 between life and death, most of them were Journalists/Artists at the Newspaper "Charlie Hebdo" and two of them we're cops here as bodyguard/protection for these journalists after threats from 2011 (if I remember well) Yes, the headoffice of the paper has been under police protection 24/7 for the past 8 years straight. 2 policemen only though, no one expected kalashnikovs and a fucking rocket launcher. Nothing you can do vs that anyways sadly, unless you start talking military protection, and even then ...  Cuz they had rounds in the mag. and a fucking rocket launcher, apparently [Here's one from Charb (Stephane Charbonnier) back in October](http://i.imgur.com/sPKyL0V.jpg)

&gt; If Mohammed comes back.. 

&gt; I'm the prophet, you fool!

&gt; Shut up, infidel!

RIP People always said that if Jesus came back he'd be branded insane and probably thrown into a mental hospital. 

This picture is par for the course.  That and he would probably be scared of the fact that 1 billion or more people all have the thing that killed him last time hanging around their necks. As a Muslim, I laughed. Sadly, this is pretty much exactly what would happen. 

From my understanding, the whole point about not having imagery depicting Muhammad is to NOT worship or give extra importance to him because we are supposed to follow God and not worship or idolize a person. The irony is that these idiots give more importance by fighting so hard to NOT have any images, and end up doing the exact opposite of the original intention. For real. And I don't think that they should have to worry AT ALL about Charlie Hebdo worshiping Mohamed as an idol.. Wassalamu alaikum!

Incidentally, as a Buddhist, Buddha said the same thing for the same reasons. There were to be no statues of him because he didn't want to be worshipped. (so we &amp; Muslims have that alike!)

But then some Buddhists were like 'I'm gunna draw/carve you anyway' &amp; I guess he just threw up his hands &amp; rolled his eyes &amp; said 'have you not been listening to a word I've sa--- oh fine.'

So now we have stupid shit like solid gold Buddha statues, which is kinda the opposite of what principals he kept to... but people are still capable of avoiding distractions &amp; following the teachings. Charb's (the guy on the right) latest published drawing on the magazine was [this](http://i.imgur.com/o7tTvAy.jpg?1), a very creepy coincidence. RIP

It says "Still no terror attacks in France" with the terrorist saying "hang on, we still have until the end of January to give our new year wishes" He also said in 2012 :
"Je n'ai pas peur des reprsailles. Je n'ai pas de gosses, pas de femme, pas de voiture, pas de crdit. a fait srement un peu pompeux, mais je prfre mourir debout que vivre  genoux." 

"I am not afraid of retaliation. I have no kids, no wife, no car, no mortgage. It surely is a bit dramatic but I'd rather die on my feet, than live on my knees"

Truly a brave man and a great loss. "The free communication of thoughts and of opinions is one of the most precious rights of man: any citizen thus may speak, write, print freely, save [if it is necessary] to respond to the abuse of this liberty, in the cases determined by the law." - [Declaration of the Rights of Man and of the Citizen, Article 11.](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Freedom_of_speech_by_country#France) Yeah, but those muslim extremists don't believe anything that contradicts the Qur'an. *anything that contradicts their interpretation of the Qur'an.* "Prefiero morir de pie que vivir de rodillas."  Emiliano Zapata (I'd rather die on my feet, than live on my knees). Interesting that this theme resonates throughout various cultures.  Cabu drawing from 2006, [It's hard to be loved by morons](http://www.mapausecafe.net/media/01/02/2057904089.jpg)

Translation : "Muhamad overwhelmed by the fundamentalists", and in the bubble "It's hard to be loved by morons"

Visionary cartoonist.

 Time to call for draw mohemed everyday. Every fucking news media outlets should have a picture of a day.  Don't back down from these monsters. 

Edit :- Got  sent  this [link](https://www.facebook.com/groups/1007786699237834/)  where  they are  collecting drawings  for  draw  mohemed every day posts .  http://i.imgur.com/KOjUF.jpg http://i.imgur.com/3ysWukh.jpg And look! no one is offended and no one is being murdered! yay! http://www.theonion.com/articles/no-one-murdered-because-of-this-image,29553/

**[NSFW]** "Though some members of the Jewish, Christian, Hindu, and Buddhist faiths were reportedly offended by the image, sources confirmed that upon seeing it, they simply shook their heads, rolled their eyes, and continued on with their day."
 I was offended, but then I got over it and continued to live in peace.  If i stopped masturbating to be offended, they'd win. Learn this man's secret to not becoming a murderous fuck over innocent jokes in only 2 lessons! Islamists hate him! It must be noted that Charlie Hebdo has always made fun of all religions, not only islam. This could not be said enough. Charlie Hebdo was not an islamophobic rag - it made fun of catholics, muslims, priests, the pope, every religion and bigotism. funny no other religious group decided to attack them.......

Edit: and I'm not talking about "what a religious group would have done what 400 years ago". I'm talking about right now. So stop bringing up what horrible things other religions have done hundreds of years ago. I'm not ignorant of those travesties, they just have no bearing on what's happening in TODAY'S world and what my comment was about.

Edit 2: Ty for the gold. I appreciate it. Let's follow /u/PainMatrix 's advise and spend that gold money on a good cause instead: [an intellectual freedom or human rights organization.](http://www.ifla.org/faife/links/intellectual-freedom-human-rights-organisations) I heard some group send an angry letter! And is anyone here surprised which one killed ~~him~~ them? The trouble is, you don't see any other religious groups doing this (at least, not nearly on the scale that Islam is doing it on). 

I think it's a legitimate question why we're seeing a disproportionate number of violent Muslims, and one I'd very much like a clear answer to. Is their religion itself more violent? Is their culture just that much farther behind the rest of the world? No one argues that every other major world religion had their phases when they did similar things. But that was centuries ago. Why are radical Islamists still at it when the other major religions have (for the most part) ceased those activities? *them

It's the name of the publication. Just a friendly correction. Nope. Charb, one of the caricaturists killed today, said earlier, after receiving death threats from islamists: **"I am not afraid of retaliation. I have no kids, no wife, no car, no credit. It perhaps sounds a bit pompous, but I prefer to die standing than living on my knees."** Source: http://www.lepoint.fr/societe/charlie-hebdo-charb-cabu-wolinsky-et-tignous-morts-dans-la-fusillade-07-01-2015-1894661_23.php http://i.imgur.com/yy9vg6P.jpg

This is an excellent quote! [deleted] [Four cartoonists](https://pbs.twimg.com/media/B6v8_6WCQAIYRnq.jpg) are said to be dead: Charb, Cabu, Tignous and Wolinski.

This is not the first time Charlie Hebdo was the target of an attack (they were torched in 2011), but I never thought someone would go that hard on them. 

Dear God, these guys were awesome, they will be thoroughly missed. That's terrible.
I'm french and I'm so sad.
The signification of this attack is very strong. They wounded freedom.
Four cartoonists, they killed an economist too, Bernard Maris, I listened him on national radio "France Inter" on the morning.
RIP &gt; They wounded freedom

Freedom is only wounded if we don't pick up where they left off. These people died promoting freedom, and so their message will be heard world-wide. They are *true* martyrs. Nobody is talking about the radicalization effect these attacks have on Westerners. There is no end to the talking heads who will discuss how "youths" are radicalized by Western actions. But rest assured, this, and so many other terror attacks, are affecting the world view of millions and millions of Westerners. There will be consequences for this attack that the attackers do not expect. Actually - at least in France - I can tell you EVERYBODY is talking about it. The effects are obvious, from boosting the ranks of the far right wing National Front party to giving more material to pundits like Eric Zemmour. never give up!

humor is immortal!

http://i.imgur.com/xeoCHEM.jpg Made by a Dutch cartoonist, glad that someone steps up :) The sad thing is that many have hoped media around the world would publish the cartoons that led to this tragedy. But what has actually happened is media blurring the cartoons in fear. Example from the Telegraph in the UK: http://i.imgur.com/lwcqqrY.png

Edit: Full context on the page: http://i.imgur.com/eYKGcaw.png "We'd stand beside you if we weren't so scared." - Bart Simpson  "Look.  Just give me some inner peace, or I'll mop the floor with ya!" - Homer Simpson The desert was just the sand trap at the golf course. The pyramid was the pro shop.... and my spirit guide was just that talking dog... [Very true.](http://bartsblackboard.com/files/2010/10/the.simpsons.s21e19.South-Park-wed-stand-beside-you-if-we-werent-so-scared.jpg) [deleted] [Fox News actually published them, too, along with the rest of Mr. Hebdo's works.](http://www.foxnews.com/world/slideshow/2015/01/07/controversial-cartoons-published-by-charlie-hebdo/#/slide/controversial-cartoons-1) Never thought I'd say it, but: Good on Fox News. Do you have a link to the actual unblurred cartoon?  Yup, this French website published it uncensored: http://www.i24news.tv/fr/actu/culture/140204-caricatures-lancement-d-une-campagne-en-ligne [Imgur mirror](http://imgur.com/XzFgHTC) "The Life of Mohammad" More links to sites that actually have a fucking spine:

http://www.patheos.com/blogs/getreligion/2012/09/charlie-hebdos-muhammad-cartoon-crassness/

http://www.mstarz.com/articles/5050/20120920/charlie-hebdo-cartoons-complaint-filed-french-newspapers-war-on-front-pages.htm

http://claudiamaxwell.blogspot.com/2012/09/cartoon-published-by-french-magazine.html

http://www.haaretz.com/news/world/1.635787

http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/europe/france/11329976/Paris-Charlie-Hebdo-attack-live.html

[Looks like charliehebdo.fr website is 504'd](http://www.charliehebdo.fr/)

[Wayback Link](http://web.archive.org/web/20150102005426/http://www.charliehebdo.fr/) [One of the cartoons on that pedophile by the cartoonists translated in English](http://imgur.com/mJnuOLe) Sorry for being dense, but what is the cartoon trying to convey? The life of Mohammed. In Islam, the portrayal of Mohammed is considered taboo. Historically, Islamic art has rejected depicting the human image and instead veered more towards the figurative. Modern militant Islamists have taken violent action to satire involving Mohammed, for example, the death of Theo Van Gogh, and this tragedy. It says "the life of Mohammed" and you see a guy with a sword  (probably Mohammed ) with a little girl in tow  (probably his wife )

more is probably in the magazine  [Same Image](http://cdn.i24news.tv/upload/cache/front_article/upload/image/afp-e4e3cc15266c89440852a97841c365c133285266.jpg) http://i.imgur.com/yqXq8uv.png
 The Telegraph stopped using this image about an hour before you commented here. The image they had used was incorrect anyway. This is the image they changed it to: http://i.telegraph.co.uk/multimedia/archive/03156/hebdo-this-month-p_3156833c.jpg

The article has now been edited again to only include relevant images to the attack (no comics at all). How about they publish this: http://i.imgur.com/r3zQF0G.png (NSFW, probably NSFL if you are a thin-skinned Muslim)

e: some people obviously think I made this. I did not, sadly. I don't know the author, however. http://i.imgur.com/LlviWuA.gif what was he actually looking at? I believe it was the crowd at his inauguration. I think it was after his inauguration for his term beginning in 2012, so he knew wouldn't be in that position again and wanted to soak in that moment. I flying pink Mohammad with dick beard shitting rainbows obviously Context? Obama turns around to see the massive crowd at his inauguration one last time before he leaves. Rest in peace m8 It's beautiful. Dutch national TV (ned3) just showed it without blur. Wauw thats weak... I am happy that the cartoons are completely shown and highlighted even, here where I live.
Edit: added "," I **really** hope this gets a lot of attention in the US.  [Uncensored Version](http://i.imgur.com/yqXq8uv.png) Fuck this cowardice. I won't be buying the Telegraph for a while The cartoonists are Cabu and Charb, but other people have been killed too, including cartoonists Wolinski and Tignous.

Here are some of their work:

[Cabu](http://a54.idata.over-blog.com/3/88/02/15/2010-101112/charlie_hebdo_c_est_dur_d_etre_aime_par_des_cons_cabu.jpg) - Translation: *Mahomet overwhelmed by integrists* ; "It's tough, being loved by such cunts"

[Charb](http://static.ladepeche.fr/content/media/image/zoom/2015/01/07/1714196-b6v30sgcuaai-ol.jpg) - Translation: *No terrorist attacks in France so far* ; "Wait! We have 'til the end of January to present our wishes/resolutions..."

[Wolinski](http://a404.idata.over-blog.com/500x479/2/31/51/01/758/Wolinski.gif) - Translation: the sign reads *Attack claimed by far-right extremists* ; Policemen: "Walk slower, or we'll have no choice but to arrest them!" ; Perpetrators: "Walk faster, or they'll have no choice but to arrest us!"  
NOTE: Wolinski did very few policital drawings compared to his peers and was mostly known for his drawings on sexual perversion. I selected this drawing because a) it's the only political one I could find and b) it's one of the few that aren't NSFW.

[Tignous](http://marcsuivre.files.wordpress.com/2010/09/caricature-tignous-islam1.jpg) - Translation: Man: "You ought to cover yourself!" ; Woman: "Do you want it in the gabber, my Hand of Fatima?" &gt; "It's tough, being loved by such cunts"

*Con* does not translate to *cunt* in this context. It would be better to say *moron* or *asshole*. [this guy](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Georges_Wolinski) and [this guy](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tignous) also, apparently. RIP They apparently yelled that they were avenging Mohammed. What kind of god or prophet needs vengeance from a comic? These attacks don't show people's strength of conviction, they show the weakness of their beliefs. No one has ever strapped a bomb to their chest because of their belief in quantum mechanics or group theory. It is the idolatry of anti-idolatry... their stupidity is overwhelming. Between the majority of media's decision not to show these artists' works uncensored, and Sony caving to North Korea's (partially successful) attempt to prevent the release of The Interview, I'm thoroughly disappointed in the way our culture has caved to the violent, threatening tactics of fanaticism. Free-thinking nations should not be shriveling up like this in the face of hatred and oppression of thought. What a shameful time we live in. Yep. Next time there's a show I don't like, or a song that irks me, I'll just start publicly threatening violence. That's right Earth, it's time for ME to decide what everybody gets to hear and see.

On the other hand think how great the world would be if Muslim extremists weren't such scumbags. They could blackmail the world into being better.  "End world hunger or die!" Jesus fucking christ, it's a hell of a world we live in where a man with a pencil and a paintbrush can make a coward with a gun feel intimidated. 

EDIT. I appreciate the gildings, but your money would be better served donating to [an intellectual freedom or human rights organization.](http://www.ifla.org/faife/links/intellectual-freedom-human-rights-organisations) I find it very telling that these people think their god so weak that a fucking cartoon can somehow diminish their glory.   "The tyrants of the world fear only one thing: a writer's mockery." -Friedrich Durrenmatt truly disheartening news. my condolences to their family. It's sad that we live in a world where we can't express ourselves..even if that's using a pencil and a paintbrush. 'I don't care a straw for your newspaper articles; my constituents don't know how to read, but they can't help seeing them damned pictures.'

'Boss' William Tweed [Here](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qJh5XrzzLts) is the video of the attack.

**WARNING NSFL: EXTREMELY VIOLENT CONTAINS DEATH**

**[Mirror](http://www.liveleak.com/view?i=bc6_1420632668)**

http://www.liveleak.com/view?i=bc6_1420632668

**another view**

http://www.liveleak.com/view?i=85c_1420633406

-------------------------------------------------------------------
**Translation:**

Terrorist: "You wanted to kill us ?"

Cop: "Nah, that's okay, chief" or "Nah, it's all good, chief"

**Shot**

Terrorist: "It's okay he wasn't Algerian"

Terrorist: "We avenged the prophet Muhammad, we killed Charlie Hebdo "

Thanks to users /u/TheFuzzyLama and /u/Mnoobe for translation.

--------------------------------------------------------------------

[Reuters report](http://www.reuters.com/article/2015/01/07/us-france-shooting-idUSKBN0KG0Y120150107) Fuck that's awful. [NSFL] can you provide a description of what happens in the video? 2 gunmen roll up in car.

exit vehicle and start shooting at victim on sidewalk about 8 shots combined.

Victim i seen lying on ground crying for help, wounded.

Gunman approach helpless victim crying in pain

coward fatally shoots victim pointblank head once. 

They run back to getaway vehicle.

drive away.

All clearly seen on camerashot

 I'd like to make the comment that the Policeman was shot in the head without the gunman even breaking stride.
The hardly rushed they were well equipped. They didnt even tear away in their car.
Fairly well drilled in my books. Reported on CNN that they initially walked into the wrong building. Well drilled maybe but not well prepared. Police officer is shot. 

Guy who shot him runs over and shoots him in the head. The cop even says "Non c'est bon chef" like to let it go but nop.

Jesus this is disgusting... Translates roughly to 'no its good chief' like im not gonna mess with you, please let me go, then they just headshot him. Horrible. Fucking hell, where was this? Was it on the streets of France or something? 

Edit: Just read the BBC article, this happened in the streets of Paris. God damn. This is in downtown Paris, out front of the offices of Charlie Hedbo, where these two cartoonists worked. Charlie Hedbo is a French satirical newspaper, it's basically the French Onion. Their offices were firebombed in 2011 after they refused to back down and published a cartoon containing the image of Mohammed in a mocking manner. The person on the right is holding the issue in question with the cartoon of Mohammed on the cover. Mohammed and an Orthodox Jew are saying "Faut pas se moquer!" which basically means "You must not mock us!". They've published other images as well of Mohammed, all in a mocking manner.  Welp that's not really how I imagined starting my day :( RIP  Is that a police officer? That is brutal. :( Yes. Two officers were killed.  Man so brutal.  Pens, pencils and brushes have always been more powerful than guns and swords.  "The ink of a scholar is worth more than the blood of a martyr." I think that's in the Quran somewhere

edit: It's not in the quran. I let you guys down. sorry. Sadly extremist like those don't like reading what they defend with extreme violence..  People who gave the order to kill those guys know Quran very well. And that's exactly the reason why they killed *scholars* and not some random anti-islamic extremists. This is exactly it. 

~~Quran~~ Islam says scholars (words) are powerful. 

Scholars say something that scares ~~Quran readers~~ Islam. 

Better kill scholars before they hurt us with words.  It's not in the Qur'an. I think it's either a statement of Muhammad (saw)although I'm unsure of the authenticityor a statement by Hasan al Basri (ra). Except for the part that just happened.

Edit: please stop explaining the clich. Their murders will only cause more pens to denounce the backward people that are doing these anti-social things.

You can fight progress with violence for only so long before you yourself are utterly obliterated by what you are attempting to stymie. I say we hold a Muhammad drawing contest in their name.

Edit: Well that got real fast. Should it be a subreddit? I could program up a site to do it? http://i.imgur.com/sa6H7FC.jpg

"I am the prophet you idiot"
"Shut up infidel" [Moehammad](http://i.imgur.com/uPTcaA0.png) [My entry](http://puu.sh/ec14H/739124ccf8.png) and here's my entry
http://imgur.com/o2xulJE

edit: Thank you for gold, my good sir.  May my dickurban (dickban) pleases you. No, penis too big. [Sorry, fixed](http://puu.sh/ec1rJ/bb0410c2bf.png) The future will tell who wins. 

Charlie Hebdo(and the world) needs to come back from this tragedy stronger than ever and more provocative than ever. 

Let's all draw mohhamed today in honor of those heroes who gave their life for your laughters.  [But I can't draw!](http://imgur.com/P8kQtIK) May 20th is International Draw Mohammad Day &gt;it's s hell of a world we live in where a man with {information / knowledge / opinion } can make a coward with a {weapon } feel intimidated

If you look at history this has always been the case.  [deleted] NSFW, heads up. sadly all too insightful In response we should be spreading their cartoons like wildfire. The Telegraph is already doing a good job: http://i.imgur.com/lwcqqrY.png

oh wait.... [come at me bro](http://cdn.i24news.tv/upload/cache/front_article/upload/image/afp-e4e3cc15266c89440852a97841c365c133285266.jpg) These men and women died for that picture. The least they can do is show it.  For printing purposes:

http://i.imgur.com/XhlHYr9.jpg


(NSFW) This is the difference, right here. We can hem and haw all we want about Christendom having perpetrated some terrible shit, in the past. The simple truth is that it's past. The current tide of Islamic extremism is everywhere in Europe and headed for the States, next. It's going to get worse. Let's protest by drawing. Pick a day, they can't kill us all. 

Edit: Awesome thanks for the gold! I posted this in anger. It is not right what those gunmen have done. I haven't read all of your replies. Some of you mentioned that you shouldn't do something that will offend all Muslims. I disagree. No group and no person should be above satire. Side note: A connect-the-dots of "TPM" would be fun if it was directed at the proper websites.  /r/drawmuhammad, everyone! Nearly 5 years old, &lt; 10 posts... That's odd. I figured this would've blown up by now.

I'll ^let ^^myself ^^^out I think this is the most appropriate response. What the hell, the ISIS fuckers are all over Twitter, make a hashtag #ProphetMohammed (or however it's spelled). https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Everybody_Draw_Mohammed_Day You know, I'm extremely liberal when it comes to freedom of religion, freedom of expression, and open immigration, but even I think it's time for Europe to tell Muslim immigrants to assimilate or expatriate. You want to wear hijabs and preach in the street? Fine. Want to convert old, unused churches to mosques? Groovy, awesome way to preserve architecture. Want to offer Middle East studies and Arabic in schools? Capital idea! Want to hold open iftars? Save a slice of baklava for me. Want to issue death threats in public protests, carry out honor killings and establish sharia courts? Well have fun doing that in the stone age shitheaps where that nonsense still flies, but you can get right the fuck out of my civilized society if you're going to behave like an animal. Fuck that. I'm in tears. Sadness and anger boil inside.

Cabu (left) was an household name in France. Such a sweet, intelligent, strong guy. Participated in the children broadcasts we were all watching in the 80s. 

Let it be remembered that he lived and died as a hero of freedom.
 reposez en paix, charb, cabu... Je me souviens encore quand j'tais gosse et Cabu dessinait au club Dorothe.

Merci les gars d'avoir le courage que nous, anonymes, n'avons pas. Bien dit. Merci. Que leur talent et leur libert persistent, envers et contre tout.  Wolinski, Tignous, et les autres... "Please enjoy this culturally, religiously, ethnically, politically correct cartoon responsibly. Thank you." 
http://imgur.com/QKSfSEy White background, goddamn racist. This shit enrages me I hope every Newspaper runs these cartoons tomorrow. Fuck these POS terrorists. Cartoonists please don't let this muffle your voice. Stand up for what needs to be heard!  It's because of shit like this that I don't tell anyone that  I'm a muslim, because I'm fucking ashamed .

I'm really sorry for what happened in Paris, nobody deserves this.


I moved to France at age of 15, French people always treated me equally, were always kind to me. France gave me free education, free high education (enseignement suprieur), gave me money to study, gave me free health care, now I'm working with a well paying job and I'm gladly paying taxes.
France gave me a huge opportunity to become someone and I love this country more than i ever loved my native country where I had no future at all. I'm pretty sure there is going to be some heavy duty shit going down in predominantly muslim neighbourhoods in France.

I'm also pretty sure there is going to be a whole lot of effort to keep France from not deporting every single islamic person who is even remotely attached to anything regarding any radicalism at all.

This is the clarion call to end radical islam in europe and 2015 is the year it will happen. You think the last decade was bad? Watch this. It takes a LOT to piss the French off. The only people who seem to be doing anything about it are French Jews, who are leaving the country in droves to the U.S. and Israel due to the rising anti-Semitism from the immigration of so many Muslims (not to mention the far right). [deleted] And generally when the French get antsy, shit goes down. And generally when the French get antsy, ~~shit goes down~~ heads will roll. This really saddens me. No sane person should sympathize with this.

Fuck, I'm at a loss for words. RIP. i hope every media source makes these comics front page tomorrow.  "Unlimited tolerance must lead to the disappearance of tolerance. If we extend unlimited tolerance even to those who are intolerant, if we are not prepared to defend a tolerant society against the onslaught of the intolerant, then the tolerant will be destroyed, and tolerance with them.
In this formulation, I do not imply, for instance, that we should always suppress the utterance of intolerant philosophies; as long as we can counter them by rational argument and keep them in check by public opinion, suppression would certainly be unwise. But we should claim the right to suppress them if necessary even by force; for it may easily turn out that they are not prepared to meet us on the level of rational argument, but begin by denouncing all argument; they may forbid their followers to listen to rational argument, because it is deceptive, and teach them to answer arguments by the use of their fists or pistols.
We should therefore claim, in the name of tolerance, the right not to tolerate the intolerant. We should claim that any movement preaching intolerance places itself outside the law, and we should consider incitement to intolerance and persecution as criminal, in the same way as we should consider incitement to murder, or to kidnapping, or to the revival of the slave trade, as criminal.

-- Karl Popper Today: Salman Rushdie denounces the religious totalitarianism.

Here is his full statement: Religion, a mediaeval form of unreason, when combined with modern weaponry becomes a real threat to our freedoms. This religious totalitarianism has caused a deadly mutation in the heart of Islam and we see the tragic consequences in Paris today. I stand with Charlie Hebdo, as we all must, to defend the art of satire, which has always been a force for liberty and against tyranny, dishonesty and stupidity. Respect for religion has become a code phrase meaning fear of religion. Religions, like all other ideas, deserve criticism, satire, and, yes, our fearless disrespect. j'en ai les larmes aux yeux! Es ce que c'est fini la libert d'expression! Jamais. How insecure do you have to feel about your God that you have to "avenge" him because of something someone drew? Your God must be pretty weak if that's something he's offended by. If you think your God is all powerful, just fucking chill out and take solace in the fact that all the "infidels" are going to suffer after they die if that's what you truly believe. Charb said "Je prfre mourir debout que vivre  genoux." I prefer to die standing up than live on my knees. http://imgur.com/r2kh2Wh If your faith can be troubled by a drawing then your faith isn't very strong at all.... This makes me feel complete sorrow. 
[Relevant post from /r/ImGoingToHellForThis](http://i.imgur.com/zAg0rYT.jpg)
 We live in a world where people who make us laugh are killed and the murderers laugh at us. European countries allowing large numbers of muslim immigrants into their countries. They Go right on public assistance, create NO-GO zones, create sharia enforced areas, honor killings, Jihad..... if you are surprised by this attack you dont follow the news.  i want to cry. Ive known those cartoonists for my whole life. Cabu was making drawings for children on tv when i was a kid. so sad Anyone thinking you can reason with these people is daft. As is anyone who thinks they wouldn't, without hesitation, use a nuclear device if they have one. When they have one.... The thing that these muslim extremists don't realise is, in the long term their attacks 'in the name of islam' are some of the best anti islam propaganda. It's disgusting to see on the news coverage the suggestion, however slight, that Charlie Hebdo may have brought this upon themselves. The insinuation there is that they got what they deserved.

We know they had been issued threats in the past. This is the kind of response we can expect for publishing offensive cartoons for as long as it takes us to realise that Islam is a religion struggling more than most to square it's values with modernity. It cannot be broken so it must be bent (reformed), and personally I think this can only happen from within. 

Thankfully there are some courageous, liberal Muslims out there putting their lives on the line to ignite a reformation. Check out Maajid Nawaz.  "You know what would make our religion look really good and safe, man?"

"Nah man. What? I'm mean it's already pretty chill."

"We should go murder people who poke fun at it. That'll make everyone respect our religion more!" 1) I hope journalists don't get scared and stop standing up for what they believe in

2) We need to bring these terrorists to justice. 
 Any news producer that shows censored versions of the cartoons should be dismissed for cowardice.  No one murdered because of this image (2012)

http://www.theonion.com/articles/no-one-murdered-because-of-this-image,29553/ I urge everyone to flood the internet with Mohammed cartoons, no matter how poor quality they might be. Let it be a sign that the freedom of speech will not be silenced. I am so fucking sick of religion. The BBC are trying their hardest not to mention Muslims or Islam in their reporting. They also blur out all of the "offensive" cartoons.

Spineless cowards. I'm tired of our media being so "touchy feely" around islam. I think in their honor we should no longer refer to terrorists as terrorists, IsIs as ISIS, or asshole murderers by their real names. Let's just call them cowards, the Coward State, and douchebag fucker - Well you get the idea. 

props to those dudes for knowing the risk and choosing to do what they love - make a serious contribution to society through satire. shame these cowards don't understand they are only making these 2 cartoonists more powerful than ever. 

.

.

just wanted to edit this a few days later bc that's what you're supposed to do on reddit:
but a lot of people latched on to the word coward, and you're missing my point. don't let these fucks have an identity when they act the way they do. dont let them pick a name for their new corporation (ISIS) and then promote the fucking thing. mass murderers didn't murder because they wanted to be ignored and forgotten... we will never know who the real mass murdering sociopaths are.  ISIS: Irredeemable Shitdisturbers of Ignorance and Stupidity.

What are they gonna do? Decapitate me? Probably yeah, they seem to like doing that. Well, in France we call them "Daesh" which basically mean coward/assholes in their langage  It doesn't mean 'coward'.

&gt;The name Daesh, according to France24, is a "loose acronym" for "Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant" (al-Dawla al-Islamiya al-Iraq al-Sham). The name is commonly used by enemies of ISIS, and it also has many negative undertones, as Daesh sounds similar to the Arabic words Daes ("one who crushes something underfoot") and Dahes ("one who sows discord").

 The pen is mightier than the sword. It's a really sad day.  

These guys were mocking all religions, not only Islam, and did this for fun.  
They were a representation of free speech here in France, and it's both hearthbreaking and unnerving to think that some extremists thought that a bunch of drawings were worth a dozen lives.

Don't forget the others : two policemen, an economist and other people who were at the meeting who took place during the attack died too, may they rest in peace. Hope that the wounded will get better soon.

And checking some comments on social medias is scary. Some people think that they deserve it and should've stop drawing about religions. You can't be a decent human being and say "ahah, these guys showed us that you don't fuck with our religion", it's just disgusting.

I'm sad for peaceful musulmen in France who will get hate due to this. I'm not myself, but I live in a small town with a majority of people from Algery, Turkey, Morocco and Tunisy. Most of them are musulman, but even if it's just a choice of religion, I'm sure that they will get a lot of shit for this. Savages.... And they think they are protecting their beliefs.  The sad part is that they'll view this as a "victory" for them and use it as propaganda. They are too stupid to realize that NOW THE ENTIRE WORLD  will be looking at these cartoons. U do know they attacked them because they tweeted the shithead leader of isis. Nobody gives a shit, ISIS supporters attacked them, as they have been murdering and raping in Syria and Iraq for a long time now. And when've been trying to intervene as best as possible haven't we?

It's not as of the west has been silent in our condemnation of IS. I don't understand your statement.

Firstly, who is "we"? white people? Non muslims? Who?

Secondly, how can you put blame on everyone if the attack was carried out by ISIS. ISIS has more supporters in Europe than it does in the middle east. By expat radicals like these assholes who committed this act of terrorism. 11 people dead in France, tousands of women and children raped and murdered by ISIS in the middle east. 

Further more ISIS grew due to the west and it's ally Saudia arabia backing terrorists and arming them to disrupt governments. All those small millitia groups grew into al quaida and ISIS. Mostly to make more money. They put Iran in the hands of islamists who went ahead and funded hezbollah and other groups who attack christians. 

Is blood money not as tasty when it kills people in the west?

I dont give two shits about Islam, this is a political issue. As far as I see it the west OWE the middle east a clean up job after the shit they have been doing there for 20 years.  
 &gt;who is "we"?

The west. France, Britain, Finland, the US need I go on?

&gt;I dont give two shits about Islam, this is a political issue. As far as I see it the west OWE the middle east a clean up job after the shit they have been doing there for 20 years.

I disagree, it's a matter of both. Do you really think that only the west is to blame for the situation in the Middle East? I wouldn't deny that the west has done some bad stuff there but ultimately it's the people who live there who are responsible for their actions.

Do you really think that more western interference is going to solve the issue? I wouldn't argue against the West doing whatever we can to support peace, stability and liberalism in the Middle East but ultimately it's the people there who have to make that change.

&gt;ISIS has more supporters in Europe than it does in the middle east.

I couldn't comment on that because I haven't seen any figures about it. What's clear however is that there are many supporters both in the west and in the Middle East. No the Iraq was a total move to liberate the Iraqie people, I guess from econmic stability and from a peacefull life. Who needs that when we have Haliburton looking to expand. 

Yeah I would think if fucking China ripped open USA their would be some extremism growing from there, I even guarantee it. Yes more western interference is needed. This time leave the contractors at home. 

But then again, how do you kill an idea? We are products of our environment, and if the only education given in a warzone is by crazy jihadists fighting against people who you are led to believe is trying to kill you (Western soldiers), it's kinda hard to understand the situation. 

We are all fucked by this. 

You know what could help? Israel with it's massive economic and military welfare from the west could help out, instead of evicting civilians from their homes. 

Egypt and Saudi arabia to.
 




 &gt;No the Iraq was a total move to liberate the Iraqie people

While that clearly wasn't the only reason I do sincerely believe that it WAS one of the reasons and justifications. Democratic idealism was absolutely one, if not the main, justification.

&gt;I guess from econmic stability and from a peacefull life

If you think that Iraq under Saddam Hussein was even remotely that then you are seriously deluded.

&gt;Yeah I would think if fucking China ripped open USA their would be some extremism growing from there, 

There's no comparison to be made. China is not a liberal democracy with freedom of the press and impartial rule of law. (not saying that either of those are perfect in the u.s. But that's irrelevant to the point)

I agree that the situation in the Middle East is clearly driving radicalization, and I disagree with the Iraq war. Still, at the very least for most people who supported the invasion bringing democracy, prosperity, freedom and human rights to Iraq was a sincere part of the reason.

It was misguided but extreme cynicism isn't any more rational than being extremely naive. The political decision to go into Iraq was of economic reason, the US soldiers did what they could to help their country and iraq. They too suffered for the greed of the corporation s I do think that the political reason was not primarily to promote freedom and democracy but I do think that it was seen as a very positive side effect that they were sincerely hoping for. I hope these Muslim extremist cunts burn. Uneducated pieces of shit. One problem is that so many of them are educated. But very rarely, I might add, do they have a liberal arts or humanities education.  I'm not Muslim but most of my family is and I have a lot of respect for those have chosen Islam as their religion (or any other religion really). And I agree with you.

I really hope those fuckers get caught. I used to hate religion because so many people who took 'faith' into their hearts I felt were MASSIVE hypocrites for not following their religious texts word for word. 

Took me literally years to come to a place of peace with this concept. Now...I look at people who only accept or take certain tenets of a religion seriously, and ignore other parts, as being the smart ones. 

They're still hypocritical at the end of the day, BUT, and it's a huge distinction, by ignoring the tenets that cause others (or themselves) harm, they can live good lives that don't involve persecution of others or other ideas. 

It's like getting the best of all worlds. The strength faith offers, without the archaic lunacy some parts of major texts include.  Religion of peace strikes again.

Quran (9:123) - "O you who believe! fight those of the unbelievers who are near to you and let them find in you hardness."

Quran (8:12) - "I will cast terror into the hearts of those who disbelieve. Therefore strike off their heads and strike off every fingertip of them"  No reasonable person would interpret this to mean a spiritual struggle.

Quran (5:33) - "The punishment of those who wage war against Allah and His messenger and strive to make mischief in the land is only this, that they should be murdered or crucified or their hands and their feet should be cut off on opposite sides or they should be imprisoned; this shall be as a disgrace for them in this world, and in the hereafter they shall have a grievous chastisement"

uran (9:29) - "Fight those who believe not in Allah nor the Last Day, nor hold that forbidden which hath been forbidden by Allah and His Messenger, nor acknowledge the religion of Truth, (even if they are) of the People of the Book, until they pay the Jizya with willing submission, and feel themselves subdued."  "People of the Book" refers to Christians and Jews.  According to this verse, they are to be violently subjugated, with the sole justification being their religious status.  This was one of the final "revelations" from Allah and it set in motion the tenacious military expansion, in which Muhammad's companions managed to conquer two-thirds of the Christian world in the next 100 years.  Islam is intended to dominate all other people and faiths.

 So to Muslims who aren't Extremists, how do you interpret these quotes? Have you even read the Bible for instance ? oO The sacred books shouldn't be understood nor applied literally.  Unlike nearly all of the Old Testament verses of violence, the verses of violence in the Quran are mostly open-ended, meaning that they are not restrained by the historical context of the surrounding text.  They are part of the eternal, unchanging word of Allah, and just as relevant or subjective as anything else in the Quran.  
The context of violent passages is more ambiguous than might be expected of a perfect book from a loving God, however this can work both ways.  Most of today's Muslims exercise a personal choice to interpret their holy book's call to arms according to their own moral preconceptions about justifiable violence.  Apologists cater to their preferences with tenuous arguments that gloss over historical fact and generally do not stand up to scrutiny.  Still, it is important to note that the problem is not bad people, but bad ideology. &gt;This extremely grave barbaric action is also an attack against democracy and the freedom of the press"  

* French Muslim Council (CFCM) Anyone can take quotes out of context. 

"I will cast terror into the hearts of those who disbelieve. Therefore strike off their heads and strike off every fingertip of them." - /u/ExposedLurker 

I'm sure there are just as many messages of peace in that book, and just as many violent messages in other religious texts. I know the Christian Bible encourages people to kill their daughters (in several graphically detailed ways) if she does something outrageous like speak out of turn or eat shrimp.  You are just deflecting the question.  When the question is asked of other religions you will have a point, until you are just obfuscating the issue. There wasn't a question in the post I responded to, so I'm not sure what you're getting at. But read further down this comment chain, you will see we reached some sort of understanding.   Ah, ExposedLurker had another post asking how moderate Muslims interpret the same quotes he listed.  I thought this was a continuation of his early post. But that only changes my statements slightly.  What do the Old Testament quotes have to do with the argument?  

When Islam is accused of fostering violence, there is always someone who points out that Christianity does too.  Sure, yeah that's absolutely true, but what does that have to do with the conversation when you are talking about Islam?  Just because one bullshit religion says its OK to be a violent prick, it doesn't mean it's justifiable for another one to say the same thing.  Bringing Christianity into the conversation, when it has no real relevance on the topic at hand just obfuscates the issue. That's a good point. I guess it's to preemptively diffuse people who may have the (mistaken) opinion that all followers of Islam are terrorists, or (as people say here) that it is a belief nested in violence.  While I definitely think you're right in that respect, I feel in trying to preemptively diffuse that belief you stifle a valid conversation that should be happening. Here's the thing. 

1. You're are actually talking about the Tanakh (Old Testament) which is technically Jewish and not Christian as it was written by Israelites. 

2. Find me these scriptures that say a daughter must be killed due to eating shrimp or speaking out. 

3. Did you know that no Jew or Christian can perform such things today because the original temple of the mount is gone? If one were to enforce capital punishment they would be disobeying the law. Also, you have to be from the tribe of Levite in order to judge. Guess what? All of the tribe of Levite are dead.  

Killing unbelievers as the Quran says, one has to do some serious mind Olympics to find a different interpretation.  "And he that blasphemeth the name of the LORD, he shall surely be put to death, and all the congregation shall certainly stone him." Leviticus 24:16

"If any man has a stubborn and rebellious son who will not obey his father or his mother, and when they chastise him, he will not even listen to them, then his father and mother shall seize him, and bring him out to the elders of his city at the gateway of his home town. And they shall say to the elders of his city, "This son of ours is stubborn and rebellious, he will not obey us, he is a glutton and a drunkard." Then all the men of his city shall stone him to death; so you shall remove the evil from your midst, and all Israel shall hear of it and fear."  Deuteronomy 21:18-21

"If a damsel that is a virgin be betrothed unto an husband, and a man find her in the city, and lie with her; Then ye shall bring them both out unto the gate of that city, and ye shall stone them with stones that they die; the damsel, because she cried not, being in the city."  Deuteronomy 22:23-24  (kill the woman because she didn't scream loudly enough while being raped, it's even worse than I thought)

"Happy shall he be, that taketh and dasheth thy little ones against the stones."  Psalm 137:9

Okay, I'm at work and can't be assed to find more specific examples, like those I mentioned. Maybe I pulled those out of my ass. But I was not far off, as the above examples show. 

I mean shit, according to the Christian Bible, God wants you to be happy killing babies, kill a woman who was raped because she didn't scream loudly enough, kill your child for being rebellious, or kill your child for saying "God Damn." And again, this is not "kill them" in vague, misinterpreted words, this says kill those little fuckers in the most basic and understandable of ways.

Edit: Let's not forget my favourite one, when God demands we kill people for working on Sunday. 

"They found a man that gathered sticks upon the sabbath day. ... And the LORD said unto Moses, The man shall be surely put to death: all the congregation shall stone him with stones.... And all the congregation brought him without the camp, and stoned him with stones, and he died; as the LORD commanded Moses." Numbers 15:32-56 "elders of his city at the gateway of his home town. And they shall say to the elders of his city" 
The elders= the tribe of Levite and in the temple of the mount. They are the only ones who can afflict this. They are all dead. Guess what, they stopped doing this when they were enslaved to Egypt/Babylon since God took about the temple. They never got the temple back and still don't haven't. Also, no one knows where the temple of the mount so good luck locating it. 
Plus even if they did there is still no Levitical priesthood. 

When was the last time you've heard of a Jew stoning someone to death? They can't because if they did they would be disobeying as there is no temple and they're not a Levites. 

Also, it's the Sabbath=Friday sundown to Saturday sun down.  
 What you are saying is that it's okay for you to not take all the passages of one Holy book literally, but another religious group with another book cannot. Why is that your view? Or are you just doing a poor job of articulating your point?  The Bible literally says that only the Levites can enforce capital punishment when in there's a temple.  So, if you interpret the Bible a certain way, it says one thing that is less violent. But Muslims are not allowed to do the same?  We're taking literal interpretation here. I provided the literal face value interpretations for both.  If we're talking LITERAL, then the Bible LITERALLY says "Kill the woman who was raped because she didn't scream loud enough." The Bible LITERALLY says God killed every fucking human on Earth (except for one dude's family on a boat) just because he felt like it. The Bible LITERALLY says that sex outside of marriage is a sin, the Bible LITERALLY says a whole shit tonne of outrageous stuff, as does every religious text. 

If you want to delve into the meaning behind verses, do so for both books. Extremists, violence, and fucked up histories are part of *every* religion, not just Islam.  &gt; You're are actually talking about the Tanakh (Old Testament) which is technically Jewish and not Christian as it was written by Israelites. 

Except literally two days ago, I had Christians quoting OT law at me to tell me why it's okay - indeed, morally obligatory - to drive a trans kid to suicide by refusing to listen to them in spite of all medical evidence.

Look, I'm all for calling out this sort of violent attack, but the Bible *does* say this sorta stuff too. OK well there's not a verse that supports what your friend was saying. 

Again, Jewish people try to obey the OT and not Christians. For Christians is more of a guideline or historical reference verse a law that needs to be followed, hence why you don't see most Christians care about eating kosher or keeping Sabbath. 

Violence has always been a part of humanity regardless of the society. The thing is the Bible only had one group of people that handled capital punishment (Levite) under the terms that the temple of the mount is in the right location. 

Capitol punishment hasn't happened in the Bible since the OT. Since the temple was taken away from Israel.  &gt; Again, Jewish people try to obey the OT and not Christians. For Christians is more of a guideline or historical reference verse a law that needs to be followed, hence why you don't see most Christians care about eating kosher or keeping Sabbath. 

MODERATE Christians do those things, the same way moderate Muslims ignore Quranic verses about violent jihad. Fundamentalists do no such thing. Some Jews are fundamental OT believers. Why are they not stoning people? 

Because they're Bible tells them they can't because they're not Levites and the there's is not a temple on the mount.  Absolute freedom of speech is a myth. 

In reality, every society including the west has limits on public speech and views they don't like. The only difference is in who defines the limits of this speech and how restrictive these limits are. Racism, national security, holocaust denial, incitement, glorification of terrorism, racial hatred and libel among many others, are all limits imposed on freedom of speech by western nations.  Free speech is reflected on what the majority of society is trained to tolerate. Everything the majority don't like is villainized.  Indeed.

The Danish newspaper Jyllands-Posten could never have printed cartoons denying the holocaust in the name of free speech. Geert Wilders could never have produced a film likening Israeli's treatment of the Palestinians to the Nazi treatment of the Jews, without charges of anti-Semitism being brought against him. 

It's contradictions like these, on the limits of free speech where the clash of values between Islam and the west is currently taking place. Western countries are limiting any negative speech on their values and yet are allowing Islamic values to be insulted. 
 Charges of anti-semitism is non comparable to death. So I don't see how the both can be equated since the offended groups wouldnt produce the same results. Also, I'm not aware of any other religion where they're are commanded by their God to kill those who don't believe. I'd say offend them all so that the world can wake up and see the source of the problem. There's only so long before you can ignore a ticking time bomb.  Charges or consequences of said actions are irrelevant here. 

Point is: freedom of speech is actively being restricted and limited by the west according to their values and beliefs. Racism, national security, holocaust denial, incitement, glorification of terrorism, racial hatred and libel among many others, are all limits imposed on freedom of speech by western nations. Some examples of many.

And yet, they're freely allowing other people's cultural and religious values to be insulted freely. Therein lies the problem: hypocrisy. 

Speaking of Western hypocrisy: many Muslims are attracted to the concept of freedom of speech since they see it as a means of accounting the oppressive dictatorships they currently live under. Yet when Islamic groups speak out against their rulers and are subsequently tortured and imprisoned by their regimes western governments remain silent. In fact Britain and America openly support these western friendly' regimes.  Case in point: Saudi Arabia. shut up You're starting a different discussion. 

Sharia Law governed countries can control their country the way they want. Same with the west. It's all about who's territory you're in. That's never going to change and it shouldn't.  Or am I? Here's another example:

On the 50th anniversary of the uprising against Chinese rule in Tibet there was widespread western media coverage and support for the Tibetan cause in the west. Compare this to the almost non-existent coverage on China's daily oppression of Muslims in Xinxiang. At the same time as the 50th anniversary in Tibet was taking place the Chinese were clamping down heavily on Muslims involved in what they call "illegal religious activity". A secretary with Hotan's Communist Party Propaganda Department confirmed that some illegal religious activity has been halted and illegal books, writings, computer discs and audio tapes had been confiscated. The only difference between Tibet and Xinxiang is that the opposition in Xinxiang is Islamic calling for Islamic ideas rather than western ideas.

Therein lies the root of the problem: double standards, hypocrisy by the western media nations, and their support &amp; coverage only for ideas and beliefs that match their values, and sub-human treatment of everything else.  The West is not responsible for protecting the people of China. Did anyone die? China has state run churches with armed guards in the temples for Christians and the US can care less. So what?  My point: freedom of speech is only a social construct to appease the masses. It does not exist in practice. What exists is speech within predefined limits that differ between nations.

In a nutshell, "freedom of speech" in the Western world is solely being used to propagate &amp; promote western ideas while suppressing, or ridiculing (in this case: being used to depict farcical &amp; satirical cartoons) of others cultures, religions, beliefs, and values.
Why not draw satirical cartoons of say Jews in concentration camps? Why not draw cartoons of figures denying the holocaust? racial hatred? glorification of terrorism? or libel among other things? Where do you draw the line exactly?

This attack was not against freedom of speech, since it does not even exist in the first place. That's true, but here's a good argument for why it's worth fighting for, and the dangers of having laws that dictate what you are allowed to hear:

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jyoOfRog1EM

 &gt; Racism, national security, holocaust denial, incitement, glorification of terrorism, racial hatred and libel among many others, are all limits imposed on freedom of speech by western nations.


*SOME* Western nations; nations that don't really protect free speech at all.  I wouldn't want to live anywhere this is actually the case, because its complete bullshit.  Luckily, where I live the only speech that isn't protected is libel and slander (yes, the written word is consider speech in this context as well), with demonstrable damages, and only if its not obviously satire.  

Offensive speech is the only speech that needs protecting.  Polite speech doesn't need it. congratulations, you're on the same level as Osama Bin Laden. If you knew shit then you'd know that the Quran says that people should only fight if endangered, that ink is stronger than blood and much, much more. Bin Laden used some parts without context to motivate his men. You're spreading the wrong image of the Islam and use the same methods as Hitler and Bin Laden.
On the google frontpage if you google one of the Verses this guy used: 

https://prophetrejectors.wordpress.com/929-at-tauba-of-quran-doesnt-encourage-muslims-to-terrorism/ "Fight those who believe not in Allah" is not exactly a situation where they're in danger. 

Congratulations, you're on the same level of Christians who think Jesus was born on Dec 25th.  I'm not good at mental gymnastics. Rather than debating you. I will leave with this debate below: 
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=GKH-sInknQM
 ignorant people like this is what the media focuses on, they are NOT the standard, generalising moslems is racist and ignorant. But if you don't want to hear, that's fine, stay on the level of debate that you're on. Of course they're not the standard. If they were then we'll all be dead. But they peaceful life they live contradicts the book they read.  read the Link I posted, 
&gt; until they pay the Jizya with willing submission

until they pay taxes. Fighting against or even killing people for not paying taxes was the standard for the time of creation of the Quran.
Furthermore the Bible is violent to the same degree or even more violent than the Quran.

&gt; You're on the same level of Christians who think Jesus was born on Dec 25th.

??

I did not say I believed anything similar, just a random "argument" to throw at me to insult me..

I am not a Muslim (if I was I wasn't allowed to say this) but I'm half Jordanian, the Muslims living there are some of the friendliest, most peaceful people I know. I do not believe in any religion or god, but saying one religion is "the worst" is just not fair, hundred thousands have died in the name of Christianity as well. The only thing you provoce by being so ignorant towards Islam in general is making them angry and helping groups of ignorant cowards like ISIS recruit their "men". 

So please, don't you think we have enough hate already? Don't promote this. The difference is that Jordan is westernized ad largely "secular" in the same way that India is "secular" even though religion is still a strong part of the culture.

Its hard to argue against the fact that most of the Islamic world is ass backwards .... Pakistan, Saudi Arabia, Bangladesh, Iran, Iraq, Syria, Turkey, Kuwait.... hell you can go as far as Serbia and still find people who will cut off their own kins arms for stealing a candy bar from a convenience store and who will blow themselves up for a chance at 72 virgins.

Idk if you saw the news report on the two cute Serb ethnic teenage girls who fled Austria to join ISIS.. These were westernized teen girls on all accounts who live in a good community and has few obstacles in life and they would still rather DIE for Allah. It doesnt matter how nice the Jordanians are... I dont see any other religion on earth in the present day which is as dangerous as Islam.

Judaism sparks many conflicts, but its hard to argue that these conflicts (outside Gaza/Palestine) are violent.  &gt; Its hard to argue against the fact that most of the Islamic world is ass backwards .... Pakistan, Saudi Arabia, Bangladesh, Iran, Iraq, Syria, Turkey, Kuwait.... 

Indeed, those countries are unfortuanetly not as developed as we are.
&gt; hell you can go as far as Serbia and still find people who will cut off their own kins arms for stealing a candy bar from a convenience store and who will blow themselves up for a chance at 72 virgins.

Indeed, you can also find people committing school shootings in Europe and the USA, ignorant, uneducated people mostly who have psychological problems. These people are NOT the standard though, when people fight for "the Islam" then the problem is much deeper than that. 

&gt; And we utterly destroyed them, as we did unto Sihon king of Heshbon, utterly destroying the men, women, and children, of every city

&gt; And when the LORD thy God shall deliver them before thee; thou shalt smite them, and utterly destroy them; thou shalt make no covenant with them, nor show mercy unto them

&gt;  If a man have a stubborn and rebellious son, which will not obey the voice of his father, or the voice of his mother [...] 21 And all the men of his city shall stone him with stones, that he die: so shalt thou put evil away from among you; and all Israel shall hear, and fear. 22 And if a man have committed a sin worthy of death, and he be to be put to death, and thou hang him on a tree

This is not from the Quran, this is from a religion you guys describe as "not as dangerous" this, is from the Bible. The difference is we don't go around slaughtering innocent people and killing our sons in puberty, why? Because we have a good life, we are educated, have things to live for. 

The people "fighting" in ISIS are uneducated people who have never experienced a good life, they are brainwashed poor people, who think they must follow every word of their holy book literally. The Quran or Islam is not less dangerous than Christianity or the bible, the people abuse the Islam more and **to stop the bigger problem we have to give these people a good life that it's worth living for.** 

Fighting against the Islam is 180 into the wrong direction.

 Now give me an example in the last 10 years where anyone has been killed in the name of those verses. 

I agree the US has a school shooting and gun violence epidemic.. but lets put this is perspective. Last I heard a depressed teenage weirdo didnt fly two planes into skyscrapers and kill 5000 people or literally rape and pillage an entire region of the world. 

Also we dont indoctrinate our kids to kill for any reason... people who are fucked up are fucked up. But in the Islamic world, Jihad is taught in schools ... educated and sophisticated Muslims accept Jihad as a way of life. My family is Indian and even some of our most friendly Muslim friends are Jihad apologists ... blaming Jews, America, western culture etc. We effectively stopped associating with these people despite liking them as people because of how radical their views were, even as doctors and lawyers etc.

The fact that the press of the world feels the need to censor AFTER this attack only proves how terrified the west is of retaliation. How do you fight an enemy that lives and walks side by side with you while secretly harboring ancient and barbaric ideology.  oh man, that makes me feel really bad for you :(

to answer some of your questions though:
&gt; Now give me an example in the last 10 years where anyone has been killed in the name of those verses.

Anders Breivik

&gt; literally rape and pillage an entire region of the world.

this is because the arabic world hasn't had a enlightenment yet, unfortunately, but still not the Islams fault.

&gt; Jihad is taught in schools [...] educated and sophisticated Muslims accept Jihad as a way of life.

i know, in Jordan too and it makes me angry, my dad, a professor of philosophy in the University of Jordan has made himself a lot of enemies (including the king) because he asked for a reform of the school system, based on facts rather than religion.

anyways, the west has a brutal Bible too, where throwing stones at your children until they die, when they were disrespectful, is recommended. Still, western murders based on religion (aka breivik) are MUCH less frequent. 

The problem lies in education and the structure of the society imo.

Still, I get your point, we have to stay objective and NOT racist to set a good example against hate from BOTH sides. There are idiots everywhere.

was a pleasure discussing with you :P Brevik was a white supremecist and neo Nazi and extreme Islamophobe...

He was NOT indocrinated by society but rather became deranged through his own capacity

The same cannot be said for ISIS or Al Qaeda or Boko Haram which essentially recruit out of local mosques. 

Its not even close to comparable... there are ISIS fighters who learned about Jihad from their LOCAL Imams in mosques in WESTERN countries &gt; Idk if you saw the news report on the two cute Serb ethnic teenage girls who fled Austria to join ISIS.. These were westernized teen girls on all accounts who live in a good community and has few obstacles in life and they would still rather DIE for Allah

&gt; I dont see any other religion on earth in the present day which is as dangerous as Islam.

Idk if you remember a man that killed many innocent children, named Anders Breivik he is also just the exception, these girls who fled to fight with ISIS are obviously not the brigthest lightbulbs... also, you didn't finish the story, after a few weeks and being raped a few times they wanted to go back home, for good reasons. That is not proving anything than human stupidity. 

Taking them as the rule is wrong though. I could say all Americans are stupid [because they don't think there is Climatic change](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lPgZfhnCAdI), that guy is educated too and comes from a fairly good household. Does he speak for the average American? maybe even you? I hope and think not.
 The site you gave me a full of mental gymnastics. Guess what, none of us are paying Jizya. ISIS asked the Christians in Iraq to pay for Jizya or be killed. Sounds like they're obeying the book perfectly. 

Quran 47:35 "So do not weaken and call for peace while you are superior; and Allah is with you and will never deprive you of [the reward of] your deeds" So much for peace. 

I have Muslim friends as well. Again, the extremists are not the average Muslim. Average Muslims contradict the Quran with their peaceful lives because they're not doing what the book tell them. 

Violence in the Bible existed of course. However, they're not commandments that tell anyone to cause the violence in today's day and age. Even back then it was only the Levites as they were the governors of that day. 

Jesus says to love your enemy. Allah says to kill them.  &gt; O you who believe! Stand out firmly for Allah as witnesses to **fair dealings** and **let not the hatred of others to you make you swerve to wrong and depart from justice**. Be just, that is next to piety. Fear Allah, indeed Allah is well-acquainted with all that you do.(5:8)

in my opinion this contradicts your argument 
&gt; Jesus says to love your enemy. Allah says to kill them.

not 100% but it comes close, it basically says be fair to everyone, even if you hate him.

I think we could go on and on and on and on about the two sides, we both have a point and we're probably not going to change our opinions. I don't expect you to change your mind I just want one thing from you:
don't hate people for the god damn stupid book they believe in, hate them for their actions. You may disagree with the Islam, but don't say you hate it to the people who live for this book (although most people wont blow you up for it). I personally don't agree with Christian religion or muslims, but I do understand that they believe in it and are offended if people are being disrespectful towards their beliefs.
 https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YaIMda5eHz8 Policeman executed by the shooters NSFL What the fuck. That policeman wasn't even... no :(. Jesus, fuck them. I hope they catch these motherfucking scum and hang them by their feet so people can piss in their mouths. Fucking fuck this piece of shit religion. He survived, the bullet hit the concrete in front of him. He is currently being treated in hospital for the other shot. Could we get a link or know where you received this information? [It doesn't look like his missed.](http://i.imgur.com/Qu1VPQk.png) You can see a puff of dust in front of his head but that's just from the muzzle pressure. Posted lower in the thread as a reply :) I couldn't find the reply you speak of. Many news agencies are reporting that he died. &gt;Here: [Website] (http://www.geenstijl.nl/mt/archieven/2015/01/video_schutters_parijs_schiete.html)

&gt;The update on the very bottom translates along the lines of the the officer is being treated. If he was executed, he most likely wouldn't be being treated in hospital. Its currently unknown however whether he'll survive regardless. Source? Here: [Website](http://www.geenstijl.nl/mt/archieven/2015/01/video_schutters_parijs_schiete.html)

The update on the very bottom translates along the lines of the the officer is being treated. If he was executed, he most likely wouldn't be being treated in hospital. Its currently unknown however whether he'll survive regardless. Thanks.   Good. Glad to hear that! It looked weird, no blood. Have you got a source?
 I replied to another guy with the source so it should be in the comment thread. they have executions on Youtube now? I want these fuckers dead so bad, I don't think I have ever hated someone so much in my life. Holy fuck... the policeman even put his hands in the air to plead for his life and the guy just puts a bullet in his head. That is fucking terrible. I feel so sad right now.  Suddenly I'm glad cops in my country carry guns. No gun was going to help that one officer.

He was out-numbered, out-gunned and caught off guard. Don't act like it would have gone any different for any other country... Possibility the citizens would have been armed in some countries.  And it's possible that would have resulted in more citizen deaths and general confusion of who was a legitimate shooter. It's all assumptions. I would still rather have the opportunity to defend myself than not.  Well good for you, still that is irrelevant here.

All you are doing here is renewing the american gunslinger archetype. I'm simply stating it's better to be armed than not. You seem to be on the defensive here.  No, you are simply assuming that somehow you would be in a better position by owning a gun. Against two terrorists carrying more powerful weapons and wearing protective gear, you somehow believe that you would be in a better position by being armed.

The reality is that you are ignoring all the uncontrollable variables. In all likelihood, you would only end up making yourself a target and endangering yourself and those around you more with your attempt to intervene.

Go play with your guns elsewhere. Spoken like true ignorance. Being armed is going to put you in a better position. Go cower in a corner somewhere else.  [deleted] The reality is that "uncontrollable variables," by definition, neither support nor refute jeepdave's assertion.  Also, you know fuckall about "likelihood."  Here, educate yourself: http://articles.latimes.com/2013/jan/15/opinion/la-oe-kopel-guns-resistance-nra-20130115
 French cops carry guns. That didn't help the two NYPD officers who got shot. Unless you are in the position to use a gun it makes no difference in the end. Also French policemen do carry guns. I'm pretty sure french policemen carry guns, but don't rarely make use of it. Also the gunmen had AKs and seemed determined, and that policeman was on the ground, wounded =( I'm pretty sure French police carries weapons. You're thinking of the British police. Yeah. And I think they have more cops with guns now too but im not 100% sure on that We have cops with guns all over the place in London.  They are highly visible and generally at all the places major shit could possibly go down.

Also heard via the highly reliable rumour mill that SAS members live in apartments all over London.  Waiting for "The call".

[Lookin good!](http://www.standard.co.uk/incoming/article8481685.ece/alternates/w620/Armed%20police.jpg) We have always had armed response teams. and some armed patrols.

Most policemen don't patrol armed though. They carry guns in France. Even if he had a gun he probably still would have been killed.  Oh shut up, this isn't the time for that elitist shite. Wow, you're a huge... huh.

Well I guess username checks out, but you're still an asshole. Use another nickname. They carry guns in France, typically. However here in the U.K, cops don't, and we are much better off for it. Cops are actually nice people, not people that feel threatened with every minor situation and draw and shoot in their defence. It changes the attitudes of cops and their is no reason they need them here other than to kill someone. Giving people the ability to kill each other as a defence only leads to people being shot as a 'defence'. In a country where most will never see a gun in real life, there is no reason for cops to have guns other than for a terrorist attack. And the freedoms we as people would lose by arming police are just that ridiculously high, that the rare terrorist attack is no reason to arm a police officer. Painting with an awfully broad brush, aren't you buddy? It wasn't meant to attack the person I was replying to in anyway. It's more just a splutter of my opinions on the gun situation. They aren't in anyway rigid beliefs of mine. However I feel arming police officers means guns will be used in a variety of situations by cops. That's a dangerous precedent if you ask me, giving up the freedom of not staring down the barrel is something I will fight tooth and nail for. Here in the U.K that is one of the only situations an armed officer may be at an advantage. However we can't let terrorist dictate what we do, just like how Americans reacted to the interview being canceled. I like the police how they are here, nice people with almost no corruption. That would change with guns involved. I'm glad I can carry guns in my country.  I'm glad the people in my country carry guns.  You're much more likely to be shot and killed by the police than by terrorists. How do you know the shown officer was not armed? btw, I am cc and would love a chance at these subhumans shhhh - quit with that embarrassing fact, what will reddit and the media do? Why on earth would you ever link that? That's horrible.

Edit: I'm thinking of his family. I wouldn't want my death to be for all to see. Nor my siblings death, or parent. Fucking hell.  girlonthemoon why are you on this thread? The world you are looking for is on http://www.reddit.com/r/cats.  People need to see this. Please do tell me why. For me it seems barbaric.  he warned us; also, this is what these people willingly did and planned for; you may be able to stick your head in the sand, but it is some (low paying) people's jobs to protect us from this hence NSFL tag, don't watch if you cannot stomach it, my friend. I didn't. I think it's disrespectful towards the victim, and his family. Imagine that were your parent.  "Je n'ai pas peur des reprsailles. Je n'ai pas de gosses, pas de femme, pas de voiture, pas de crdit. a fait srement un peu pompeux, mais je prfre mourir debout que vivre  genoux." 
Charb en 2012

"I am not afraid of any reprisal. I have no children, no woman, no car and no credit. It's perhaps a bit pompous, but I prefer to die standing than to live on my knees."

Charb in 2012 [deleted] /r/Mohammedpsbattles Another great cultural contribution from our Muslim friends Is it bad that my first thought was Islamist extremists were involved, before reading about or knowing anything about this story?  bad? Its practically a conscienceless reaction by this point. Gee let me guess, they were murdered by Muslims angry over a single cartoon about the scumbag muhommad, not Christians or Jews angry about one of their countless cartoons making fun of them...

Ah yes, but we should keep sucking mudslimes dick because a handfull aren't extreme. Sorry, but when 1/3 of your religion votes extreme, and the other 2/3 does absolutely nothing about the insane 1/3 trying to murder &amp; behead everyone, your "religion" is fucked. 

Did we declare war on the Nazis or all of Germany? Pretty sure all of Germany wasn't Nazi by any means. But it took us beating the fucking shit out of all of them to insure that they never even came close to letting their people think slightly close to the way they used to think. This "tolerance and respect" bullshit CLEARLY doesn't work. You can't fight a subsection if an ideology, you have to fight the whole thing.  ^^ this God I wish imgur had a image of Muhammad so's we could depict him on reddit as Scumbag Jihadist.  The problem with Islam is it believes "church" (or should I say mosque?) and state MUST be one.   Therefore for any government to gain true acceptance by devout Muslims it must be some form of theocracy.  

For a theocracy to crack down on extremists would be in a sense hypocritcal.  They would be punishing their most devoted.   Thus the Muslim states find themselves very reluctant to do anything against the Militant Radicals inside their borders lest they end up like Syria.  

Christianity actually has this same problem in the Modern Eara as well.  The USA is the hotbed of Christian militant activity.  Difference is the US federal government has crashed down like the fist of their angry god upon any militant Christian groups who do more than make angry rants.  They broken up cults, or even outrightly slaughtered them.  

In light of the present middle east I find myself rethinking my disgust at disasters like Brand Dividian or Waco TX.   

I just wish we could round up all the neo nazis/christian cultists and the Islamic militants and have them play a Hunger Games.   I would pay to watch it.   You have no idea what you're talking about.  worked for japan too. i honestly wouldn't have any problem with these countries getting carpet bombed on a daily basis until they fucking learn the tough way who's really in charge. That's just what it takes to make the decent people in a group keep the shitholes from spreading their crap.  You know it's a religion of peace when shouting "God is Great" (Allahu Ackbar) is the scariest set of words anyone on the planet can hear. Greatest* Muslims are just fucking crazy.  I get that all the religions, all the countries, all types of people have their bad apples but it seems with Islam it's half the fucking batch.  They've managed to become by far the biggest problem for humanity, and there is some stiff competition. Man...you know that it was 2 gunmen today, right? If we include everyone behind the planning, and everyone supporting them, and those involved the same way in *all* terror attacks, you really think we're even getting close to 2 million, let alone half of all Muslims? 

Like, really, logically, do you believe that even 2 million individual people are supporting this? Because that's a huge amount of people.  [deleted] Thought so. Okay. Sorry you live a life so full of hatred, I hope one day you can be happy.  Word, homie. 1,500,000,000+ Muslims in the world. 750 million of them are terrorists. You don't have to be a terrorist to be crazy.  How many are supporting these acts?  Look at those tweets from the Muslims.  How many in the middle east would wish death on every American if given the opportunity.  A shit load of them would.

It's by far the most fucked up religion in the world.  They are the only ones who commit terrorist acts in the name of their religion. At this point I prefer voodoo to Islam.  Well now you are just insulting voodoo. Even satanists are pretty level minded in comparison. Satanists are the most level minded "religion" out there.  They show the hypocrisy of other religions that invade government.   Hell, I had like 12 chicken wings just last night.  That means I' responsible for at least 6 chicken deaths in the space of 5 minutes.  I, too, can live with voodoo.   Don't blame the whole religion. I am not a Muslim and do not practice Islam, but one thing for sure is never to judge a whole population based on the minority. There is a massive number of Muslims in the world, only a small percentage are the crazy extreme barbaric monsters you see on the news. 

Also to mention, there is no teaching or written text that states that Muhammad cannot be depicted. It is a silly cultural belief that was made up by some Muslims one day. I dont know why they dont get so angry about depictions of God (Judaic God who is the same as the Christian God who is also Allah).  I guess you haven't seen the recent stats on the percentage that support Sharia law, beheadings for apostasy, and other extremist positions?  It's really quite disturbing.  Don't let your liberal (in the best sense) impulse to give people the benefit of the doubt blind you to the reality on the ground. Im being downvoted, but thanks for the fresh slap on the face. I will be honest, I do try to see the best in people, but in the rush of comments I definitely stated an unsupported statement.

Im going to go educate myself some more now. Here you go....    http://www.reddit.com/r/pics/comments/2rmgra/these_two_cartoonists_for_french_magazine_charle/cnhb85k They aren't doing enough internally to stop this crapola.  If you're not a Muslim and do not practice Islam then stop trying to defend something you don't understand. islam is by leaps and bounds the most and destructive violent religion in todays world Religion of peace, they said.  "One reason they dont get exposed is because theyre afraid to speak out because its the only religion that acts like the mafia that will fucking kill you if you say the wrong thing" - Bill Maher To the people of France, we will stand with you against insanity. We haven't always seen eye to eye, and sometimes our governments bicker, but we remember why you sent us the statue. 


Its early in the US and im infuriated. I hope I didn't make everyone in france cringe. Merci. A historical friendship re-kindled! Fuck yea, going to liveleak now to watch some videos of these fuckers being blown to bits by our boys.  Don't apologize for your cringe. Embrace your cringe! Merci I'm sorry but no you won't and nor will French politicians. They will blame the extremists and say they have nothing to do with Islam and then imams will condemn the acts and there will be no real, open dialogue because even in France the sacred tenant political correctness is alive and well among our main politicians.
 Religion of Peace *"What are you some kind of Islamaphobe?"*^ Yes it's not a phobia if there are good reason for the fear. I healthy fear of something (e.g. Spiders) isn't a bad thing.  That's not a phobia then because it's a rational fear and you aren't overwhelmed by it to the degree that people with real arachnophobia can be. phobia = Fear  
I know there are reasonable Muslims, but yeah, I'm pretty scared of the others.  
ANd the reasonable ones are so far away from the orignal Islam, that they might as well found a new reliogion to distance themselves from these fuckers. Phobia:

"An extreme or *irrational* fear of or aversion to something"

 I just have an aversion to it. 
Just like I stay away from idiots, I stay away from people that truly believe crazy shit


Here's my cartoon of Muhammad: 

                             :::::::::::
                         ::::::::::::::::::
                       ::::::::::::::::::::::
                           0       O
                       vvvv Cvvvvv
                         vvvvvvvv
                           Vvvvv
                             vvv
                               V  
               


Come at me.  Do you not know what 'or' means? You're misreading it.
it's not "extreme or irrational fear, or aversion to, something'

It's "extreme or irrational (fear or aversion) to something"

The definition of a phobia is that your responses go above and beyond what's natural to expect. Arachnaphobia because spiders are mostly harmless but people with it will freak out and run away.

It's not irrational to be scared of people who'd murder a cartoonist for not taking their imaginary friend seriously enough.  &gt; It's not irrational to be scared of people who'd murder a cartoonist for not taking their imaginary friend seriously enough.

That's correct. But if you read upwards more you'd see that's not what they're talking about. They're talking about Islamaphobia. Unless you want to equate Islam to "people who'd murder a cartoonist for not taking their imaginary friend seriously enough".  &gt;Phobia:
"An extreme *or* irrational fear of or aversion to something"

FTFY mate "An extreme *or* irrational fear of or aversion to something" That is not the only accepted usage of the word "phobia". Which is pretty funny, considering that the word of Allah as spoken by the prophet Mohammad directs believers to strike fear into the enemies of Islam. What's funny is these people aren't even enemies, just critics or satirists. 

But I guess a slight breeze feels like a hurricane when your house is made of twigs. Any non-believer is an enemy to them, a sentiment repeated over and over in the Qur'an.  True. People should sit down to read the Quran. I did and I was stunned by how violent it was towards non believers. That sounds a little fishy, do you care to cite that? Fuck if I remember.  My book is hidden in some stack and I haven't put a shelf up for history/religion yet.  The part that describes it is about a third of the way through. If I may, I suggest you read "Fields of Blood" by Karen Armstrong. It sheds a rather interesting light on the contemporary school of thought that religion is inherently violent, and examines violence throughout the history of the Abrahamic faiths, as well as Hinduism, Zoroastrianism, and Taoism. I will put that on my list, thank you. &gt; In clinical psychology, a phobia is a type of anxiety disorder, usually defined as a persistent fear of an object or situation in which the sufferer commits to great lengths in avoiding, typically disproportional to the actual danger posed, often being recognized as irrational. In the event the phobia cannot be avoided entirely, the sufferer will endure the situation or object with marked distress and significant interference in social or occupational activities.[1]

i fear that islam is a violent religion at its core, and i believe it's a reasonable opinion. i don't avoid muslims, i don't run when i see a girl in a hijab. i just find their beliefs not to my liking. I've been saying this for a while, it's something I saw in a video about radical Muslims.

There are over a billion Muslims in the world. If only 1% were radical, then that's at least 10,000,000 people who want my head on a stake Which would indicate that you fear extremists, like the rest of us. Most every other religion has had their extremists throughout time and shit has ended badly for non believers. Don't make the mistake of letting terror attacks induce a false prejudice in you. Extremism is what causes people to act insane, not the religion itself. Religion provides the basis for the extremism.  Religion, specifically fucked up islam, is the problem. No it is the religion that enables the extremism. The religion is the root cause. How many Christians or Hindus do you see doing this crap? Zero. Its because the Christian and Hindu religions do not specifically promote this type of violence and hatred. Islam is a disgusting and vile religion. The crusaders had the right idea. Every single Muslim from every single western country should be deported. They do not belong. It is not their land and they are breeding like vermin. All of this "tolerance" has hotten us to this point in history. Just for one moment, think about how wonderful your own respective country would be had there never been any Islamic immigration allowed. &gt;How many Christians or Hindus do you see doing this crap?

Crusades. Witch hunts. So a few thousand at least. The "reasonable" islamists are practicing Taqiyya which allows them to lie about islam and their beliefs to gain the trust of non-believers in order to draw out their vulnerability and defeat them. This is all in the Quran. Press a "friendly" muslim about Taqiyya and see what happens. According to Wikipedia they are allowed to practice taqiyya to avoid persecution, not to draw out the weakness or defeat anyone. Can you provide a source for what you're saying? I know a few people who consider themselves muslims.  
They say they have no problem with gays or people making fun of their Religion.  
They say its a religion of tolerance and peace and I sohuld ignore the extremists.  
You could argue they aren't real muslims but I don't belive in Guilt by Association.  
Although I stil l don't understand why they don't split of in their own variant of Islam. It isn't a no true Scotsman fallacy to say they are not true Muslims. The Koran is very clear that those beliefs are incompatible with being a good Muslim.

So the real question is, if you believe gay people are ok and women are equal to men, why remain a Muslim at all?

(The same is true with many regards to other religions, before someone responds with whataboutism.) They should have a reformation. Break apart into the moderates and the extremists in name, publicly. Then it would be easy to identify the backwards barbarians to deport from civilized countries. There are reasonable Muslims, not Islamists: that's pretty much the name for these violent extremists. fixed Yes, that is the root of the word, but for something to be a "phobia" in the psychological sense it needs to be an irrational fear. How are you so sure that the "radical ones" aren't the ones so far from the original Islam while the "reasonable ones" aren't closer? Do you want me to roll you a joint,  maybe you will not be as scared when you hit it It may be both actually. This is the same type of bullshit that people use to justify racism, sexism, xenophobia, etc. 

Black people get arrested more for violent crimes therefore you should be afraid of black people? Make sense /s. 

Men rape people far more often than women, so one should avoid men if possible.  (yes, I have seen this argument). 

Many terrorist attacks are caused by people practicing Islam, therefore I fear people who practice it. It's all the same, really.  -phobic doesn't necessarily mean "afraid of." It also means repellent to or repulsed by, as in hydrophobic.



 Well that's just not true. I have arachnophobia and I have good reason to fear black widows.  https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9DQBBmyjW0s Agree, it's a pretty scary and fucked up religion. To be fair, you don't see any other religions believers killing cartoonists for creating a picture of their god... Quickly some pro-muslim dick will tell you that 400 years ago Christians did.  As a Historian, that's not a pro-muslim position, it's just the hard facts that Islam has not gone through a sort of reformation like Christianity has. However, you'd think that modern times make it easier for religions/believers to adapt. Apparently not. Good point. The thing is that there is no attempt at reform within the Muslim religion nor Muslim community at large, mainly because moderate Muslims are usually the ones that know their lives to be in danger if they were to speak for any sort of reforms Yesterday, I would've said no way, but since 11 people just got shot with AK's in the middle of frickin' Paris, it seems you are right. Fuck this shit! Exactly. We're too far into the future for this shit Pointing out the failings of Christianity doesn't make you pro-Muslim, anymore than pointing out the failings of Islam makes you pro-Christian. Anders Breivik. Not even 4 years ago let alone 400. It's not a magazine office but the magnitude was far greater.  Check your history. And as aptly pointed out many many times you blame the actor not the religion. Well in history we did see people getting burned for being scientists or we can just accuse women of witchcraft. Which religion was that? Hmmm i cant point a finger at it.  &gt;A survey conducted by the Pew Research Center in 2010 found relatively widespread popular support for death penalty as a punishment for apostasy in Egypt (84% of respondents in favor of death penalty), Jordan (86% in favor), Indonesia (30%), Pakistan (76%), Nigeria (51%), and relatively minor support in Lebanon (6% in favor) and Turkey (5%).[114]

&gt;Another survey conducted by Pew Research Center in 2012 among Muslim populations in many Islamic countries found continuing support for the death penalty for those who leave Islam to become an atheist or to convert to another religion.[115] During this survey, Muslims who favored making Sharia the law of the land were asked for their views on the death penalty for apostasy from Islam.[115] Death penalty was favored by large majorities of pro-Sharia Muslims in Egypt (86%), Jordan (82%), Afghanistan (79%), Pakistan (76%), Malaysia (62%), and the Palestinian Territories (66%); and by a minority of pro-Sharia Muslims in Lebanon (46%), Bangladesh (44%), Iraq (42%), Tunisia (29%), Thailand (27%; partial survey), Tajikistan (22%), Indonesia (18%) and Turkey (17%), Bosnia-Herzegovina (15%), Russia (15%), Kyrgystan (14%), Kosovo (11%), Albania (8%), and Kazakhstan (4%).[115]

Edit: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Apostasy_in_Islam

Shouldn't you be afraid of a religion where a 3rd think the correct punishment for leaving the faith is death? Where is this from?  I want to quote it more.
 Upvotes make it more visible. 

http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Apostasy_in_Islam "Not all Muslims are bad. After all it is the religion of peace guise." " *They* are the problem, not our peaceful religion. " Note that when Charlie Hebdo's offices were [firebombed](http://www.huffingtonpost.com/2011/11/02/france-muhammad-cartoon-attack_n_1071111.html) firebombed in 2011 (after they made fun of Islamists) Charb, the director (who was killed in today's attack) said that the attack was probably done by "radical stupid people who don't know what Islam is." He said "I think that they are themselves unbelievers ... idiots who betray their own religion."  Why should the peaceful ones feel in any way responsible for the actions of the others? Are people not responsible for their own actions? [No True Scotsman](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/No_true_Scotsman)

Not sure why you're downvoting.  I'm just pointing out the fallacy of picking and choosing who are "real" Muslims. I actually really hate this fallacy, because to me it tries to classify things in black and white, and that's just not how the world works. Maybe "real" Muslim is not the term to use, but you could apply the fallacy if someone said "peaceful Muslims would never do that." But peaceful Muslims **would ** never do that, because they are, by definition, peaceful. They might be a bit sore about the subject, but they aren't going to go guns blazing into the streets of Paris. In that kind of situation, the fallacy shouldn't apply. 

I don't know, that's just my take  You shouldn't hate the fallacy; you should dislike those who conflate formal definitions.  That's what you're really taking issue with.  A Muslim is a generic term for someone who declares themselves a follower of Islam, and there are a few central tenets that bind all of the sects.  These "extremists" *are* Muslims, and they are doing these acts *specifically* in the name of their God as they view it from their sect. 

People get personally offended when a large generic term groups them together with someone they find reprehensible.  Some Muslims murder in their God's name, arguably proportionally more than other religions.  Americans kill far more people with guns than other countries.  By the same original logic, I would be saying, "No true American murders people with a gun".  An American can be morally corrupt as well as morally permissible.  When people exclude a morally corrupt person from their group called "American", they're just trying to redefine a word to make themselves feel better.
 We dared to not be islamic, it's clearly out fucking fault. I think the '*They*' refers to extremists, not non-Muslims... Circlejerky comment of the day. http://i.imgur.com/AEvUG.gif Fuck you, have an upvote. I think he's full. Hi before some kind of racist nonsense starts to appear in the comments I'd just like to point out that according to [Europol's 2013 terrorism report](https://www.europol.europa.eu/content/te-sat-2013-eu-terrorism-situation-and-trend-report) only a few percent of attacks in Europe were religiously inspired while over ninety were nationalist-inspired.  Racist? Islam is not a race. It's a religion &amp; an opinion. I don't have to respect someone's ideas, i will ridicule them and challenge them if i want. It would be wrong if someone hated muslims but if someone hates Islam. Then you shouldn't care because islam is nothing more than ideas &amp; opinions Hating Muslims is no more racist than hating Islam. Yet the Religious attacks killed many more people, according to the report you link to (8 people vs 2). Jews in the US sponsor political parties in Israel which break international laws with it's settlements and hold a million people in a gigantic cage. Religion of Peace.

Breivik murders 77 people in the name of right wing political beliefs and christianity. Religion of Peace.

Wesboro Baptist Church (christians). Religion of Peace.

Hitler, a christian. Religion of Peace.

The catholic Church actively protects priests that rape children. Religion of Peace.

Religion is a powerful force to twist people's minds. We have burned people at the stake, beheaded people, gone on crusades, gone on jihads against the crusades, tried to cleanse the world of a certain people, bombed ourselves, bombed others, hijacked planes to fly into buildings and so forth in the name of a higher power. Killing people that criticize your religion is as old as religion itself. These men that did this today are nothing new, they are nothing special, they're just the new face of religious extremism.

There is no religion of peace. there is just religion and you'd be amazed what you can get desperate people full of fear and anger to do in it's name. Breivik was not shouting "christian god is great" while shooting his victims - know the difference between "murderer, who was religious/atheist" and "murderer, who kills in the name of religion". Same thing applies too all your far fetched examples.   

 I seem to recall Breivik's manifesto containing a lot of pro-christian extremism though. Hell if I'm even more correct it was his reaction to the spreading of Islam, but I could be wrong. It's been awhile since I've read it. I wouldn't say terrorists who claim to have Islamic beliefs are Muslims either. The Quran explicitly states that Christians are the Muslims' closest brothers and should be revered as such. I don't see anything in that statement about murdering them. There's a reason the majority of Muslims throughout the world have denounced ISIL as nothing more than terrorists using Islam as an excuse. &gt; Wesboro Baptist Church (christians). Religion of Peace.

They haven't killed anyone.

&gt; Hitler, a christian. Religion of Peace.

He wasn't a Christian and he had to essentially destroy the church in Germany when he took power.  [Bonhoeffer](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dietrich_Bonhoeffer) was a Lutheran pastor that was killed because of speaking out against Hitler.  Hitler's religion was his own, not Christianity.  What I hate seeing on Reddit is the political propaganda that begins as soon as an act of terror takes place. At the end of the day let's not lose focus, people died in an act of Terror. No matter where you are from, what religion you are, common citizens have been brutally murdered without being able to defend themselves. These are everyday people, that woke up, kissed their loved ones goodbye to go an earn a living, provide for their families...and all of a sudden they are faced with automatic weapons, being shot at. Let's not lose focus, if you're causing an act of violence to a defenseless population, it's an act of terror. There was a terrorist attack yesterday in Istanbul, today in Paris, and every week there is similar acts taking place in Africa by war lords. We need to realize why is this happening, and how do we stop it. 

 &gt; We need to realize why is this happening, and how do we stop it.

It's the simple task of making every person on the planet feel secure by having their basic needs met. When people don't feel threatened, they're more capable of being open to different ideas and lifestyles around them. They no longer need to cling to extremist views to provide stability in their lives.

It's pretty simple in concept, but also very difficult to pull off.

In other words, don't hold your breath. Oh, but... I thought illegal invasions of countries that harbor terrorists (afghanistan) and *allegedly* has weapons of mass destruction (iraq), torturing suspected terrorists/militants (or people that say things we don't like, as in the case of Anwar Al-Alwaki, apropos the issue of freedom of speech) and even assassinating them with drones (killing lots of innocent people in the process, creating brand new enemies) was how this issue should be dealt with. I mean, Obama said so, and he's a pretty smart guy! I agree fully.

There are people who will always be aggressive and instable. These people belong in mental hospitals, getting the treatment they need.

Regardless those belong to a tiny minority of the population. For the rest welfare, education and humanity is enough to ward off thoughts of terrorism.

Us Europeans need to recognize that immigration failed horribly. Lots of people were invited to come here for their cheap labor. Our national governments did horrible things in countries that some immigrants feel strongly about. The media constantly tries to portray it as a situation of us and them. Most immigrants live in relative ghettos.

As a result of the complete lack of integration, most immigrants from the Muslim world continue to cling to Islam. It depends on the specific Mosque and Imam whether Islam is used as a way to cultivate tolerance and acceptance or hatred for Western 'decadence'.

The only solution is to tear down these barriers through prosperity. Thank god the attack in Istanbul wasn't of religious nature, or there would be a massive shitstorm a brewing. It's already a tragedy, but if it was a tragedy caused by religion, the situation would be much much worse in this country that's already plagued with never ending pointless religious debates. I want to realise how to stop it. How do we do that?  Education, ending poverty... Don't forget if a tiger is not hungry, it's not going to kill to feed it self. There are some really desperate locations in the world, where the only employment opportunity is these fanatical groups, and people that join them are starving. So the people who lived in a first world nation with the same education as the rest of their generation, access to welfare and high employment rates, who still go ahead and join ISIS. Well, what about them? What can we do for them?  Education and ending poverty are important...but keep in mind that Osama Bin Laden was rich and well-educated. So those gunmen were starving? Eventually ideology is going to matter, and some ideologies are more comfortable with mass murder than others. good lord.

plenty of religious nuts are educated and have money. I guess that's why the vast majority of known Islamic terrorist leaders and fighters are middle- to -upper-class and often college educated. This is a common misconception, Islamic terrorists are usually not poor.  [link](http://public-policy.huji.ac.il/.upload/segel/ClaudeBerrebi/EvidenceAbouttheLinkBetweenEducation.pdf)

Also education doesn't seem to be a main factor. [link](http://csis.org/event/al-qaeda-united-states)

The issue of what breeds terrorism is far deeper than most people realize. Sometimes that works. However, a lot of these extremists groups are pulling young, educated, intelligent people from industrialized nations. Attacks like these aren't conducted by some goat herder in Afghanistan. They can be very educated and just as filled with ideation of martyrdom. "Fixing" this has no easy answer.  So it is our job to civilize a barbarian culture basically?

I say we let them run their country into the ground like they want. Look at the pew research on extreme opinions in the Muslim world. There is extremely high approval for things like death for apostasy, stoning of adulterers (almost always women), subjugation of women, death for homosexuals. This isn't just in places where people are starving. This is Egypt, Qatar (wealthiest nation on earth), Jordan, etc.

It isn't our responsibility to change that. If they want to be barbarians, let them. I say we stop letting them into our countries and call it a day. it's nigh impossible. the core beliefs of radical muslims such as those that perpetrated the attack are utterly incompatible with liberal modernism that we in the west follow. western states have tried to install democratic regimes in countries fomenting terrorism, to no avail. the enemy of these terrorists is freedom of speech, democracy, and the empowering of women and other voiceless people. the most important thing I think is to encourage moderate muslims to oppose these radicals instead of supporting them financially or morally.  They tried installing democracy in the islamic equivalent of yugoslavia or austro-hungary. It was not going to last.  Education.  &gt;We need to realize why is this happening, and how do we stop it.

We stop it by calling out religions for the idiotic superstitions that they are. That would be correct if the religion supported this stuff. As the 1.6 billion non-terrorists show the 1000 terrorists, murder and terrorism are not allowed by the religion.  So brave  With such a myriad of cultures, belief systems and extremism of every spectrum; counter-terrorism, as a whole, is nearly impossible. We can only hope to suppress it to a degree. And realising a lot fo that is faith based is a good start to stop it. It doesn't happen in the name of religion, it happens because of it. Suicide bombing? 100% faith based. The pope saying condoms are worse than aids? 100% faith based. Religion of Peace isn't used to describe those other religions. It IS used to describe Islam. Their wiki: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Religion_of_Peace is about islam.  Uh, I don't think the people running thereligionofpeace.com are Muslim, and your Wikipedia article says "Religion of Peace" is a **neologism** - a newly coined phrase - after 9/11, by non-Muslim politicians attempting to make a distinction between extremists and moderates. Religionofpeace website is a hate speech site. It's no different than if I made a listing of every Jewish criminal in existence to "prove" the race and religion are evil. 

You're defending a bigoted expression.  Honestly ignore that website. They intentionally publish politicized and purposefully mistranslated versions of the Quran. I'm not saying the book if perfect otherwise, there are definitely still issues with it but they take out all context and just push the bad ones and mistranslate to bring new ones out of thin air.  woosh I understand the frustration some people feel whenever someone tries to whitewash the problem the Islamic world currently has with the terrorists among them and those who support them. The post you responded to insults everyone's intelligence and the intellectual integrity of the person who posted it.  
What I find more important, however, is supporting the peaceful Islamist majority,that does in fact espouse peace, in their attempt to stop sociopaths in their blasphemous attempt to twist Islam. That, I believe, is the real message behind that majority proclaiming the fact that they are peaceful and there is nothing in their mainstream cannon that condones--let alone proscribes--this kind of shit (nothing worse than Old Testament wrath and fury that the other Abrahamic religions don't take literally today, either). Funny how people commenting are more familiar with the site (can't call it satirical, it's, at most, giving facts in a biased manner) than the neologism! So many factual inaccuracies in this comment, hard to be live no one has called you out yet. And you continue the trend of not specifically calling him out. Good job.  I have noticed people from islam twist and distort facts into their favor.   


Hitler was not a Christian, he wanted to do the same to the church that he was doing to the jews. 

&gt; The catholic Church actively protects priests that rape children.

I do recall seeing news articles where Pope Francis has kicked people out of the Catholic Church for this very thing. 


&gt; Wesboro Baptist Church (christians)


They call themselves Chrisitan but they sure as fuck are not. They do nothing but spew hate. And Christ said it, "By this everyone will know my disciples, if you love one another." and what the Westboro baptist church does ins't love, it isn't even close to love. 


Edit: Spelling plus. I have also noticed that Muslims will also condemn the crimes of others, but they will also use those same crimes they condemn to justify the crimes of their own. Ex. John kills a cat in cold blood. Frank says that john is evil and no good for what he has done. Frank then kills a cat in the same manner that John did. Peter says Frank is evil for killing the cat, Frank responds that John did it. They do it to hide and redirect the focus of the crimes and atrocities committed by their people onto others. If it's wrong, it's wrong. It doesn't matter who did it. It's people killing people, not the religion, to be fair. But it's almost exclusively Muslims still doing the killing in the name of any religion. This is true but hopefully you realize this is a fairly recent historical development. I'm not a fan of all Israel does, but they don't execute defenseless people.

WBC - They  suck hard, but they don't kill

Breivik, yup that's comparable. Thought there's only 1 of him, no state full of Breiviks.

Hitler is been dead for over 50 years.. And he didn't do what he did out of the name of Christianity, but out of his Nazi ideology.

And we've been mad at the catholic church too, a lot of people a turning away from the church.




 &gt; Hitler, a christian.

Hitler was not a Christian.  By any but the most restrictive and subjective definitions, he definitely was a christian.

Baptized and confirmed.  It's arguable because apparently he held different personal opinions, but as far as Germany was concerned, he was Christian (his speeches and public position was Christian). Neither are the westboro baptists, you can't just call yourself one and then do whatever you want, I can call myself a hockey player but if you saw how I played, you'd disagree I'm pretty sure the Westboro Baptists are still Christians. It's a self applied label, not an exclusive club with membership tests. And many Christians might not consider other denominations Christian, so there is no widely agreed upon strict definition of the term.

Also, if you like playing hockey, you can be a hockey player. You might just be a "bad hockey player." No, the WBC *are* Christians.  Just extremist ones.

Whether Hitler really was a practicing Christian is up for debate.  Both pro and anti-Christian statements have been attributed to him.  From what I've read though, the best description of his religious beliefs was that he was simply a politician - he said what he felt he needed to in order to gain the support of whatever company he was in. Basically all of the anti-stuff is right wing christian propaganda.  And by that logic the people who did this are not muslim. So, whose privilege is it to appoint religious identity? No true scotsman, eh? TIL I really CAN be anything I want.

Imma be a tornado!

VVVrrrrrooooom! Then by this same logic you must also realize that the extremists who kill in the name of Islam are not real Muslims. Most Muslim leaders around the world agree that terrorists like ISIL are not real Muslims. I do agree with that, yes. He was most certainly an avowed Catholic. Mein Kampf makes several allusions to this, most of his speeches make reference to god and the concept of divine providence.

In particular, in 1928 in Passau he categorically stated hostility to atheism-"we will tolerate no person in our ranks who attacks the Christian ideals... in fact, our movement is Christian" Someone hasn't read me in kaaaaampf Apparently you never actually read what Hitler wrote or said. Hitler was **most certainly** a Christian. Hi speeches were though, speaking about higher power and the like. I don't want to lose focus (comment above) but I do feel that Hitler took advantage of the religion of his people because he used the rhetoric associated with it. Seems in private that he was raised Christian but wasn't a fan of organised religion.  When you're living in poverty and there is a dictator oppressing you, religion just becomes an excuse as you have nothing to live for.  &gt; There is no religion of peace. there is just religion

I think most of us know that. But we're just making fun of it because that phrase got spammed everywhere in Europe by Muslims and high religious leaders.

Trust me, no religion is good. But in this context the statement works counterproductive.  &gt;Trust me, no religion is good.

Religion means different things to different people. Not all turn out to be violent extremists because of their faith. &gt;no religion is good

\*tips fedora* What about the Druids? ..Sure :P? All of the holy books say similar things, and they are good principles (like the golden rule -- treat others how you would be treated). But there are always fucked-up people who will twist words into what they want them to be. They'll always find a reason to hate. Don't confuse the two. Don't bring Israel into this, it's much more complicated than that and it's insulting every side of the issue to simplify it in the manner in which you have.  Stop getting so defensive. His point is that everything is complicated and you can't blame the religion. http://i.imgur.com/ksEgqN9.jpg Not surprising.  For those wondering, these are the twitter accounts of French speaking muslims saying the men deserved to die for insulting Islam, some of them saying they're laughing that the cartoonists are now burning in hell. I wish I knew what those said You're better off not knowing... The amount of bullshit is strong with you. Have you considered becoming a professional leftist-apologetic spokesman?

Isreal is a leftist socialist heaven, the Orthodox Jews don't have any say in politics and most people in Israel are atheists (esp. those in power).

Breivik murdered those people for his own beliefs, he never said he was doing it for God. Not to mention his goal was to stop exactly this kind of terrorist attacks by returning the islamists to the desert they belong to.

Westboro is crazy that's true, though they bear no resemblance to Christianity at all. Also, remind me the last time they murdered anyone.

Hitler was a pagan/satanist/occultist.

Catholic church is indeed guilty of that, but again, do they periodically murder people?

So please stop with this 'islam is as bad as other religions' bullshit. It's not and most of international problems we face today is caused by worshipers of the Moon-god of Mecca and fifth column people from western countries, like yourself. Butthurt Muslim detected. None of those things are comparable and you're an idiot for thinking so.  Watch him try desperately to satiate his cognitive dissonance. This is the same type of person who beats his wife and makes her stay in the house while claiming women are equal in his shit religion. Pretty much this.

On one hand, you have a religion that is consistently the reason for repeated terrorist acts from beheadings, to shootings, to acid attacks, to flying planes into towers over the past 30 years at least.

On the other hand you have a couple of evil people in history, and some criminals.

Isn't this reddit's favorite buzzword - false equivalency?? Oh shut the fuck up. [deleted] If you think people's beliefs don't influence their behaviour your going to have a bad time.

Also, communism is a pretty strong belief system, coming complete with holy books which can't be questioned and silencing dissidents. 

Maybe you mean religion rather than belief???


 I think Jainism might be the closest thing to a religion of peace this "religion of peace" circlejerk whenever Islam is mentioned should die already Your post is hyperbole bs.  &gt; There is no ~~religion of~~ peace. there is just ~~religion~~ *people* and you'd be amazed what you can get desperate people full of fear and anger ~~to do in it's name~~

Some of the greatest atrocities in history have been done, not in the name of God, but in the name of **power**.

Genghis Kahn, Mao, Stalin, Pol Pot

No religion among them, but brutal brutal murderers, in as high a number as any religion in history.

To act like the cause of this is one set of beliefs is just silly, people can be manipulated by any cause to do horrible things to each other.

 Your apologism is sickening. What the fuck does this have to do with anything! This is ridiculous.

Breivik is about as Christian as I am a biplane.

WBC is loudly rejected by just about everyone on the planet including 99% of Christians who can actually call themselves Christians. There are only a few hundred members of WBC, and in any case, they haven't murdered anyone.

Hitler could call himself a Christian all he wants, but it's very clear that the actions he perpetrated were not part of any Christian agenda.

Yes, there were crusades, and barbarities committed by both sides. Fortunately, both Christians and Muslims have grown over time to be above such cruelties-- oh, wait, no, half of Islam is still stuck in that era.

Christian's don't murder cartoonists, police officers, innocent bystanders and civilians just because they said something bad about Christianity. There are plenty of bad, murdering, raping Christians, because Christians are just like the rest of us... people. And people do shitty stuff. But at least Christians don't commit these acts *just because they are Christians*. These acts are committed **because these guys are Muslims, and were offended by someone drawing a fucking cartoon so much so they killed 12 people**.

...look everyone does shitty stuff, and I know most Muslims aren't extremists, but way too many Muslims can't even admit that there is a serious problem going on within Islam. How is anything ever going to get better when Msulims refuse to accept the scale of the problem? I won't blame all Muslims for the murders, that's absurd, but I can blame the problems with Islam. Westbrook Baptist is awful, for sure, but to equate them with these terrorists? Harmful words vs murder here. Two completely different things.  A survey conducted by the Pew Research Center in 2010 found relatively widespread popular support for death penalty as a punishment for apostasy in Egypt (84% of respondents in favor of death penalty), Jordan (86% in favor), Indonesia (30%), Pakistan (76%), Nigeria (51%), and relatively minor support in Lebanon (6% in favor) and Turkey (5%).[114]

Another survey conducted by Pew Research Center in 2012 among Muslim populations in many Islamic countries found continuing support for the death penalty for those who leave Islam to become an atheist or to convert to another religion.[115] During this survey, Muslims who favored making Sharia the law of the land were asked for their views on the death penalty for apostasy from Islam.[115] Death penalty was favored by large majorities of pro-Sharia Muslims in Egypt (86%), Jordan (82%), Afghanistan (79%), Pakistan (76%), Malaysia (62%), and the Palestinian Territories (66%); and by a minority of pro-Sharia Muslims in Lebanon (46%), Bangladesh (44%), Iraq (42%), Tunisia (29%), Thailand (27%; partial survey), Tajikistan (22%), Indonesia (18%) and Turkey (17%), Bosnia-Herzegovina (15%), Russia (15%), Kyrgystan (14%), Kosovo (11%), Albania (8%), and Kazakhstan (4%).[115]

http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Apostasy_in_Islam I'd also like to add Eric Rudolph to that list who bombed the Olympics and gay bars in the name of Christianity in the 90's.  And of course, Scott Roeder, who murdered abortion provider George Tiller. 

But I wouldn't include Hitler - whose religious beliefs are somewhat blurry anyway - since the Nazi atrocities can't really be attributed to Christian beliefs. I think any ideology can be corrupted. Reference: South Park's atheist wars.  We're the United Atheist League!  your actually retarded, Hitler was not a Christian he was anticlerical and potentially atheist, he wanted to dismantle the church in Germany and disliked most religions.

Stalin was an atheist who persecuted Russian Orthodox Christians as well as many other religions, he did so because of his Atheist beliefs. by your logic it's the Fault of Atheism and it could never be a good thing that Atheism exists, in fact your logic would go as far as to say that it twists peoples minds and make them do terrible things.

of course that is bullshit, but everything you say is bullshit. you take the actions of a few and paint them as the beliefs and actions of all, and it's retarded. not only are you ignorant of facts but you are part of the problem. &gt; Wesboro Baptist Church (christians). Religion of Peace.

Because waving a laminated placard is in any way comparable to shooting unarmed civilians.
 &gt; Jews in the US sponsor political parties in Israel which break international laws with it's settlements and hold a million people in a gigantic cage. Religion of Peace.

Their actions, however problematic, are limited in scope to the West Bank. Fascist Islam, on the other hands, seeks to have influence over the entire world.

It's a false equivalency to say "well, all religions are bad aren't they?" and leave it at that. Sure, the are commonalities and examples of despicable behavior in all religions, but at this point in time a large and influential segment of Islam has shown itself to be particularly despicable. It should not be tolerated or excused. This could very well be the most poorly thought out, factually inaccurate post I've ever seen on Reddit. 

The sad thing is you say it with such conviction you've probably convinced yourself you're right.   Reaching *reeeeally* far to try and compare any other religion to one that still has hundreds of thousands of people murdered in its name every year. Islam is broken.  I won't go into why this comment was bullshit, but I'll just say that Hitler was not a Christian. And even if he was, he would be a good one for killing jews. Those guys who behead people are considered good muslims for what they did.  When someone says Hitler, I'm not imagining anybody that has heard of "history" suddenly thinking "Oh man, that damn Christian!"

WBC.. unless I have missed something in the news, being aggravating and insulting isn't exactly the same as shooting people in the street. 

As far as Breivik, seeing as how he is a bastion of mental health and psychological makeup, I have no idea what to say about him.  So much bullshit in one post. Breivik was only a "Christian" culturally and not a practicing Christian "Regarding my personal relationship with God, I guess I'm not an excessively religious man". Also the idea the Hitler was a "Christian" is laughable. Yes I know he said things about God and Jesus, but he wasn't a practicing Christian either. 
As for WBC, they are denounced by almost every single Christian denomination in the world. Do you want to see how many Muslims worldwide actually support terrorist action? Hint, it's magnitudes higher than any support WBC has ever received. Also, as ridiculous as they are, they don't kill people!

Another point you make miserably, Christianity never claimed to be a "Religion of Peace", in fact, Jesus said just the opposite, "I come to bring a sword, to turn parent against child etc...(paraphrased)". But even since he said that, the religion has mostly updated itself to modern times. Have most Muslims adapted? Yes. But there's still a sizable number who haven't, more so than any other religion in the world.   No no no, where Iiiiiii live there are no violent Christians. Plus that's myyyyy religion. Clearly I know it and it's all about peace and love and believing in Jesus or spending all of eternity being flayed alive in hell while the devil rapes you with a trident. Nothing violent or wrong with my religion at all. 

Can't believe I may have to put this but obviously /s Oh yeah?  Well how about you publish jokes about Christianity and see how many death threats you get.  Walk into the Bible Belt and mock Christ.  See how safe it is.   Then you'll know the difference. You can't read what Jesus taught and think genocide is right.  You can't judge a belief by the people who absuse it.  &gt; Wesboro Baptist Church (christians). Religion of Peace.

To their credit, they might be the biggest assholes in the world, they are non-violent. &gt; Wesboro Baptist Church (christians). 

Never yet involved in any violent act.  They're assholes, but they don't belong in your list above. I despise Westboro Baptist Church as much as anyone else, but at least they've never gone on any killing sprees. Hitler's crusade was actually about race, not religion.  Christians were not immune from the concentration camps.

Westboro is detestable, but not violent.

You're absolutely right that every religion has employed violence and extremism.  The Crusades being a great example, albeit a centuries old one - but Christianity and most other religions have matured over the centuries, to the point that it's not a mainstream opinion that violence is a requirement of faith.

Islam has not matured to the same state.  There are plenty of peaceful well educated Muslims throughout the world, but pretending that violent Islam isn't representative of Islam is politically correct garbage in the same vein that claiming Catholic priests don't deserve a reputation for child abuse.

Individuals deserve the benefit of the doubt but Catholic Priests and Muslims deserve their reputations.

Islam is the dominant religion in an area of the world that tolerates women as an inferior person, violence, and racism.  It deserves the reputation it has.  If you'd like to change the reputation your religion has, it's your job to confront the worst elements of it instead of claiming they don't represent you.  

Westboro DOES represent Christians, but it's clear there isn't enough of them to be taken seriously.  You can't claim the same of Islam's Sharia law practitioners; they control several countries. What a joke. Extremism happens in every religion, but it happens by far and away the most in Islam. There is no comparison. Islam is the most savage and violent religion out there today. HEY GUYS THIS ISNT ABOUT ISLAM. ITS ABOUT ALL RELIGION. AMIRITE? Comment of Edge&amp;trade; a religion is neither peaceful or violence. It is the people that practice that religion that are peaceful or violence.

edit. I dont think it condones or encourages violence anymore than Christianity or Judaism does. The US and Israel have no issue killing others for their own agendas.       Well done for posting the most unoriginal comment possible. Not only is it unoriginal, it is idiotic and adds nothing to the conversation. Right, because me and the rest of the Muslims in the world are plotting your doom In Turkey, the 50% religious conservatives will say "This isn't the real, true, peaceful Islam!"

They've been saying that for over 10 years.

Hell even the AKP-loving media is claiming these attacks were funded by Israel or a deep-state within France to increase Islam hatred... https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0tN75e5gtw4 An oxymoronic phrase in most contexts, historically.  If your religion, which claims to be godly, and your book, which claims to be the word of god, can still inspire and motivate so much death and killing, it is time to re-evaluate the accuracy of your claims. According to Bill Maher, [it is!](http://youtu.be/L8kqjtQdCQk?t=4m49s)

The entire interview is actually very interesting.  How can the followers have peace if they keep giving all of it to their Prophet (PBUH)? You are making an asinine assumption: "Islam" is this monolithic, metaphysical force which defines its adherents, and doesn't allow them individuality or to speak for themselves. (See "Orientalism" by Edward W. Said for an interesting study on this topic) I feel bad for the Muslim community, because not everyone is extremist, but lately due to the actions of the few, I feel like most Muslims are prone to violence. Whenever I see a shot like this, I always wonder how complex the systems of the city are. Like how does the sewage, electricity, waste, and water work? And where is the food grown and how does it get to the people. It's mind boggling. https://japangasm.wordpress.com/2012/01/12/the-underground-wonder-of-tokyo/ [Imagine being in here when heavy rain hits.](https://japangasm.files.wordpress.com/2012/01/gcanstourunderpalladium_9001.jpg) I'd be more worried about Balrogs tbh. Forged this gold in the Fires of Mount Doom for you. Fucking love LoTR jokes. How precious Just learn this passage, you will be fine. 

"I am a servant of the Secret Fire, wielder of the flame of Anor. You shall ~~can~~ not pass. The dark fire will not avail you, flame of Udun. Go back to the shadow! You shall ~~can~~ not pass."


EDIT:  /u/xTETSUOx saved the day.  I've always thought that the quote is "You shall not pass".  Your incorrect passage could have doomed a bunch of people, dude. it's shall in the movies can in the books Moria is in Japan? And they call it a mine. A mine! This is no mine. It's a tomb! But first let's try the malt beer and red meat off the bone. Ahh Mirror's Edge And the internet is just as wonderful. Have a question? 90% of the time there is an in depth answer.

I am about to read the article so forgive me if it is already in there but how deep do the average buildings build down? You know restaurants and stores and other general purpose places that aren't just straight maintenance areas. 2 floors? 4 floors?

Anyone know how deep some of the largest buildings or groups of buildings get? Any umbrella lab sized systems down there? The best way to get the right answer quickly is to give the wrong information with confidence. Reddit fucking loves correcting people.  
  
Edit: the responses pointing out Poes Law are so deliciously ironic. Well duh, we've all seen Evangelion by this point. We all know what's down there without a shadow of a doubt. Wow, so now I know where the inspiration for the level design on Mirror's Edge comes from. There is a large section where you are running from the cops down in a location that looks exactly like those photos. Humans are pretty fucking wonderous.  except the bad ones Especially them. Oh, middle-school Kevin Guilty Its Keven [Humanity is beautiful](http://i.imgur.com/YuchhPV.jpg) NSFW Game over for her jesus that is a big shlong.

edit: my top comment on reddit is about a black dude's dick.  thanks guys.

Edit2: thanks for the gold! I think  Nah. If you read comments here on Reddit you'd know that that is only about the average size of a redditor's penis. I'll ask my mom what the average actually is. I'm pretty sure her sample size will be more than enough, according to everyone I ever played online competitive multiplayer games with. The standard way to measure your penis length for Reddit sharing is from slightly behind the anus to just a little bit beyond the tip. No way. The size of my dick is something I've never worried about, but this makes my shwanson look like a baby's thumb. Most Redditors are from Sudan.

[Penis size by country](http://i.imgur.com/byn0xb5.png) I always hated penis inspection day. I think your uncle was pulling your leg when he made that day up. are there no penises in the grey areas no urological organization to provide data NEERRRRRRRRRD Take that Australia. Pansy ass West Islanders  [deleted] What is the context of this? Why does that dude have such a massive dong, and why is he looking at her like that? United Colors of Benetton? Porn. actually look at that face, I find it so unnerving. Imagine if people looked like that

Edit: WTF OP, YOU DECEIVED US. HE EDITED GUYS                                   &lt;_&lt;

                  ( .)( .)


                                       oo
                                       ||
                                        [Er...](http://imgur.com/cewspCn) [~uguu](http://i.ytimg.com/vi/_c0XuXtxSbA/maxresdefault.jpg) Jesus that's terrifying. [Wonderous and doomed for self destruction](http://imgur.com/uc2SrrW) (possibly NSFW) That guy's shoulders are MASSIVE What is this from, please?  http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Legend_of_the_Galactic_Heroes It's also important to remember that [this is what Tokyo looked like](http://i.imgur.com/gosvfOM.jpg) exactly 70 years ago. A lot of what you see is relatively new.  Was this taken after the fire bombings? Yeah, so maybe more like 69 years and a few months ago.  Hey. That's my pic!

People asked me to share this after my [original post with a shitty title](http://www.reddit.com/r/pics/comments/maqj2/urban_sprawl_tokyo_as_seen_from_a_helicopter/) back in 2011

Google Drive: https://drive.google.com/file/d/0B7i3aozPYEAkelZuRmJMMEZHd0k/view?usp=sharing

Flickr: https://www.flickr.com/photos/129090177@N03/

Picsurge: http://picsurge.com/g/t9OVyc

Hopefully all these new links hold after DropBox crapped out. Nice work man! Thanks for the drop link!

Edit: Great photos! Where were you at? helicopter? No problem! I've PM'ed it to enough people since I posted the original photo I figure I might as well share it. Wiki on the Greater Tokyo area http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Greater_Tokyo_Area 

More people live here than the countries of Canada and Iraq  The GTA is just behind California in population by roughly a million people and is 3% the size of California. At first I thought you meant Toronto. Tokyo makes more sense.  I thought Los Santos.  [Reminds me of this picture of Mexico City](http://i.imgur.com/FPO3S59.jpg) That's a crazy photo Photos like this really reinforce my belief that humans are just a higher form of germs growing all over a ball of dirt hurtling through space.  

Extra-terrestrials are going to discover earth and think "dude, what's this gunk growing all over this planet?

EDIT: I'm not familiar with Joe Rogan, but apparently I need to check out his stand up. Because great minds think alike. Or dumb minds. Whatever, we'd be buds on the playground.  [Found you!](https://33.media.tumblr.com/bcb8ce4ccbc30ceda0606ffbfd2cd52c/tumblr_mk6ipxdvX21rb0fqao1_500.gif) I visited Tokyo once, and one thing that stuck with me was how I've read a lot of science fiction that I thought was original, but no, it's just describing Tokyo.  Pretty much everything that's written about a giant city-like planet is really Tokyo inspired.

It definitely made me think about how there are surely some people who have never left that city in their lives, and just what you imagine the rest of the world to be like if you're one of those people. That's one of those things that still blows my mind, that there are people who will live their whole lives in a vast metropolis like Tokyo. Nights made bright by sodium-vapor street-lights and LED signs, the rhythm of days easily seen by the ebb and flow of traffic. The city like a living thing all around them -- the world outside the city being something that exists in movies and television shows, but you have no real need to travel there. Ever.

And despite me having grown up in the country, with vast forests and open fields, midnight sun and bitter cold winters, and despite having travelled so much in my life ... I don't really see that idea of a life spent solely in a city as being negative? There's just something so alien about it from my perspective that I find it oddly appealing.

Cities are cool. I like cities- I live in one in fact. But living in only one and never leaving it potentially is what struck me.  They all visited the country-scape during their lives. There are mountains, valleys and beaches all over Japan. Don't any of you watch anime? There is a skiing trip in every series/ Or beaches and hotsprings. I was in Tokyo in 2007, it was amazing. 

[This was on my headphones I remember](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=d838xLUJNeg&amp;t=180) Sounds like 1 night in any city they wanted it to be. 




"Wait guys, is this "1 Night In Tokyo" or "1 Night In Ibiza"?"



"You mean it's not "1 Night In Prague"?"



"That's so silly, I always thought this was "1 Night In London"!" One night in Bangkok and the world's your oyster  
The bars are temples but the pearls ain't free  
You'll find a god in every golden cloister  
... &gt; I visited Tokyo once, and one thing that stuck with me was how I've read a lot of science fiction that I thought was original, but no, it's just describing Tokyo. 

Reminder that this video is of a real cityscape:

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=S131_OyHkIg&amp;feature=youtu.be How is it to visit tokio when you dont speak a word of japanese? google maps is really useful in japan. not so much in korea (fuck you, naver). 

when you get to the airport in osaka or tokyo, there will usually be a kiosk where you can buy a mobile wifi-egg that you can connect your phone to. it's about ten dollars a day. 

totally worth it because it will not let you get lost unless you're completely useless in the modern world.  Fucking Koreans and their insistance on having their own special version of everything that's useless to any non Korean and only compatible with Internet bloody Explorer... I love the country but that's always been a sticking point. With a smartphone app and a few words of Japanese it went great. Lot's of pointing at maps and signs too :)  People where really nice and the few people who speak english where so happy to get a chance to practice.

Also a GPS is pretty much mandatory, the address system is not easy to understand (there's no street names) What the hell? No street names? How do they identify streets?  Think of it this way: 

In Western cultures, buildings are the things between streets. 

In Japan, streets are the things between buildings.  I still don't get it, how do they know where the building is? or how to get to it? 1. Prefecture
1.  Municipality
1.  Neighborhood 
1.  Section (numbered, usually 1-5) 
1.  Block (numbered, usually 1-30 or so)
1.  Lot (numbered clockwise around the block)

Ex: Tokyo-to, Suginami ward, Igusa neighborhood, 3-10-16. Not sure about the rest of the country. I'm assuming it's a similar "top-down" system. So yeah, you basically have to put it into a GPS if you hope to find anything. Pretty much this.  Except one thing.  The lots aren't numbered by location for most of Japan (including Tokyo AFAIK) but instead by age of the land parcel.  So number 1 would indicate it was the first parcel of land in that area sold for a building, 2 is the second, etc.

In the rest of Japan that isn't in a major city, it goes:
1. Prefecture    
2. Gun (essentially a county level division of land, or a grouping of towns and villages.)    
3. Town or Village    
4. District (subdivision of the town, usually a reverence to geography.  Like 'Nakada' or 'Takahashi' - a lot of these double as family names too.  In cities, these are often numbered using  or .  These can be small neighborhoods or as small as a cluster of houses.)    
5. District subset (Usually a single character or number referencing the north/south/east/west part of #4.)
6. The land parcel number. (When land is re-partitioned for a building, the numbers change.)    
7.  The address within the parcel/building.  So if its an apartment, that information comes last.

and 8.  The 7 character postal code that is absolutely necessary and unique.  Because there are doubles and triples of names of places that are very frequently mistaken.
 /r/woahdude They use blocks. In America if we wanted to go to Saxs we would say it's between Fifth Avenue and Empire Street (this is fictional). The blocks don't have names. In Japan is the opposite. Streets are just lines that divide the blocks. The blocks have numbers and the address is written from largest geographical area to the smallest (the opposite of western convention). So Country&gt;City&gt;Ward&gt;Block Numbers. The streets themselves actually do have names, but addresses don't go by what street it's on. Instead, all the blocks of an area are [numbered like this](http://3.bp.blogspot.com/-xL0ZfRRdMmk/UnkRH756vyI/AAAAAAAAEwY/gF0JdD9Fxm8/s1600/tokyo-city-atlas-nakano-zoom.png). There's quite a bit of English around but it's the same as visiting any other foreign city, there's a lot of guesswork and asking around I've been lucky enough to go to Tokyo twice. It's an incredible city. There's just this vibrancy to it that is hard to capture in words. I was lucky enough to have taken a few years of japanese and also to remember some (on the second trip). There's old and new right next to each other. The metro system allows you to go anywhere for cheap and exactly to the minute. The food is incredible. The people are cool. 

I don't think I could live in Japan even if it was once my dream but it's an amazing place to visit.  No wonder it's taken Godzilla so long to destroy it. http://i.imgur.com/yuzYVi1.jpg SHORYUKEN TIGER, TIGER, TIGER, T-, TIG-, TIGER, TIGER, TI-, TIGER UPPERCUT https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0-rCg1B4JGk Even Akira only destroyed like half of it. It kind of looks like a sci-fi concept of a planet-wide city. Cyberpunk and other sci if metropolises are pretty much always based off Tokyo. [Sirens. Don't look up. In theaters December.](http://i.imgur.com/PVIXXV2.jpg) For perspective, [this is the greater Tokyo area superimposed onto the United Kingdom](http://i.imgur.com/Eqfme.jpg) Not even Tokyo wants anything to do with Northampton  Tokyo is basically Midgar. Just looking at this picture I can hear the opening composition. Wait, isn't Tokyo in Japan? No it's in England  Wtf, so we dropped an H bomb on england?

*Edit: Capitalized the "H" so people know it was a big bomb.*

*Edit2: For everyone correcting me and saying it was an atomic bomb, not a hydrogen bomb, H is an adam so it's obviously an atomic bomb too. Duh.* No that was Nagasaki and Fukishima, which are in The Netherlands  So *that's* why they named the Netherlands after the hell-like dimension from Minecraft http://i.imgur.com/anWrB4H.jpg [http://i.imgur.com/IzDp6m3.jpg](http://i.imgur.com/IzDp6m3.jpg) What a gas. You laugh, but some 14-year-old is gonna read this and write a report on how the allies H-bombed the Netherlands, and then forced the emperor in Tokyo, England, to surrender. And probably get a B- B-, the minus makes it sound legit.  You think I have time to read all those damn papers?  Name all the major players; check. Wtf Netherlands? Uhhh B, -. Also because the Netherlands is the world's leading producer of redstone. No, Fukishima is where the power plant melted down.  You're thinking of Tenochtitlan which is in Australia.   Hey everybody look at this dumbass who thought Tenochtitlan is in Australia instead of Austria! Why the fuck did they bomb Futurama? No, a whale and a dolphin dropped the bomb on england. *a-bomb(s) That's a bit misleading, since the [Greater Tokyo Area](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Greater_Tokyo_Area) includes a lot of rural and mountainous areas. Here's a view of the region in [Google Earth](https://www.google.com/maps/@35.6525051,139.6387913,244594m/data=!3m1!1e3), and you can see that the built-up regions only forms a part of the overall Greater Tokyo Area.  That's the Tokyo metro, which isn't analogous to Greater London but rather most of South East England, since that's the commuter belt of London. Yeah, no. Bumfuck Chiba isn't metro by any means. That's a map of the entirety of Kanto. Yeah the map above is a crock. It's like saying New York City is massive, then using a map of New York state to demonstrate it. No, it would be more if they have a map of the Greater NYC area, which would include large portions of Conn, Northern NJ, NYC, and southern parts of Upstate.  Yeah, it's not a good comparison.  
  
OP made it look as if the city is bigger than the entirety of Belgium. Only the metropolitan region is. Greater Tokyo is a large area of Japan as well though http://i.imgur.com/vpCmG2w.png Imagine 10 Birminghams. Ughhhh Ok, [Here's LA] (http://i.imgur.com/e7ZwWLD.jpg) http://m.imgur.com/Ufbr5ej I was more making a joke but...  
  
Greater LA area = 33,954 sq miles

England = 50,346 sq miles 
  
Add the connecting metropolis to LA and you have what I pasted.

 &gt;According to the U.S. Census Bureau, the Los Angeles metropolitan area has a total area of 4,850 square miles (12,561 km2), while the wider combined statistical area covers 33,954 square miles (87,940 km2), making it the largest metropolitan region in the United States by land area. However, more than half of this area lies in the sparsely populated eastern areas of Riverside and San Bernardino counties.

...

&gt;The Los Angeles metropolitan area comprises Los Angeles County (2010 population: 9,862,049) and Orange County (2010 population: 3,010,759). It is officially designated by the US Census Bureau as the Los Angeles-Long Beach-Santa Ana, CA Metropolitan Statistical Area. The total population for the Los Angeles metropolitan area at the 2010 Census was 12,872,808.

This area includes:

* Los AngelesLong BeachSanta Ana MSA

    Los Angeles (3,792,621)
    Long Beach (462,257)
    Anaheim (336,265)
    Santa Ana (324,528)
    Irvine (212,375)
    Glendale (191,719)
    Huntington Beach (189,992)
    Santa Clarita (176,320)
    Garden Grove (170,883)
    Lancaster (156,633)
    Palmdale (152,750)
    Pomona (149,058)
    Torrance (145,438)
    Pasadena (137,122)
    Orange (136,416)
    Fullerton (135,161)

	

    El Monte (113,475)
    Downey (111,772)
    Costa Mesa (109,960)
    Inglewood (109,673)
    West Covina (106,098)
    Norwalk (105,549)
    Burbank (103,340)
    Compton (96,455)
    South Gate (94,396)
    Mission Viejo (93,305)
    Carson (91,714)
    Santa Monica (89,736)
    Westminster (89,701)
    Whittier (85,331)
    Newport Beach (85,186)

	

    Hawthorne (84,293)
    Alhambra (83,089)
    Buena Park (80,530)
    Lakewood (80,048)
    Lake Forest (77,264)
    Bellflower (76,616)
    Tustin (75,540)
    Baldwin Park (75,390)
    Lynwood (69,772)
    Redondo Beach (66,748)
    Yorba Linda (64,234)
    San Clemente (63,522)
    Pico Rivera (62,942)
    Montebello (62,500)
    Monterey Park (60,269)

* RiversideSan BernardinoOntario MSA:

    Riverside (313,673 )
    San Bernardino (213,708)
    Fontana (201,812)
    Moreno Valley (193,365)
    Rancho Cucamonga (165,269)
    Ontario (163,924)
    Corona (152,374)
    Victorville (115,903)
    Murrieta (103,466)
    Temecula (100,097)

	

    Rialto (99,171)
    Hesperia (90,173)
    Hemet (78,657)
    Chino (77,983)
    Indio (76,036)
    Chino Hills (74,799)
    Upland (73,732)
    Apple Valley (69,135)
    Redlands (68,747)

* OxnardThousand OaksVentura MSA

    Oxnard (199,943),
    Thousand Oaks (127,984),
    Simi Valley (125,814),
    Ventura (108,787),
    Camarillo (65,895),
    Moorpark (34,779),
    Santa Paula (29,321), 
    Port Hueneme (21,723), 
    Fillmore (15,002), 
    Carpinteria (13,040), 
    Ojai (7,461), 



/[Greater Los Angeles Area](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Greater_Los_Angeles_Area)

I didn't believe you either so I had to look it up.

Seems like they're including a area, and including other nearby cities, towns and even counties to make up their 'statistical area.' Damn England is tiny.

http://i.imgur.com/54LSm4N.jpg As much as I love England, a lot of that is either opinion or half truths  It's from 4chan, don't take it seriously. No man break it down english lit style! &gt;a lot of that is either opinion or half truths 

[pls no bully](http://i.imgur.com/q4e2Pe5.jpg) That made me a sad American :(

(The internet has failed me...there are no images of USA hugging UK) That's because of our [special relationship ;)](http://www.christopherfowler.co.uk/blog/wp-content/uploads/2012/11/special-relationship1.jpg) [deleted] To be fair, it's rather misrepresentative. The UK is like a work-addicted alcoholic father who now wants to make up with his kids after growing older and realizing all the terrible shit he did when he was younger. He can be totally sincere now, but that doesn't mean that the past never happened. coffee &gt; tea fite me irl fgt [Daily reminder](http://i.imgur.com/JoKcorW.jpg) The attention to detail is amazing. I mean look at the shading on that hat.  See that EA? This is what Sim City should be about. Let me build (or at least plan and manage) THIS. 

What's so hard about it?  I just essentially need Sim City 3000 on today's hardware. No real 3D is even needed. Sim City 4, dude. Still plays great thanks to the extensive modding community. Everyone's complaining about Sim City 5, and I'm just sitting here still having a blast with Sim City 4.  Quiet peasant! You'll manage your township and like it! Or next time it'll be three mobile homes and an Arby's for you. Neo-Tokyo is bigger But it's about to explode.  I live in Tokyo... this is just one direction... If you go to to the top of the Tokyo Metropolitain Government Building, Mori tower, or Tokyo Sky Tree on a clear day, you just see... cement as far as the eye can see. You'll see Kawasaki connect to Yokohama, and then it just fades into the distance. Then you'll see Chiba and Saitama (which we consider the sticks) wall-to-wall with buildings. Then you'll see all the way to Takao-san with nothing but buildings until you get right to the foot of the mountain. It's absolutely insane...

At night it is breathtaking, though.

http://360gigapixels.com/tokyo-gigapixel-roppongi-hills-mori-tower/#0.00,0.00,90.0 Definitely not as big as Tokyo, but [So Paulo](http://static.theglobalmail.org/cache/37/13/3713345cd59dc2ed9ec915e33f3e5c96.jpg) is also worthy of consideration. also heinously fucking ugly as fuck It's like one guy designed the entire city. I've been there. It is heinously ugly on the inside too. 

The girls are nice though, I guess. On the inside too? Tokyo is literally the population of Canada, in one city. It took me 8 days to drive across Canada Yeah but how many days does it take to drive across Tokyo? With all the traffic, I would imagine about 8 days.  Worst city to survive a zombie apocalypse in. Best city if you're in a cyberpunk future.

Shout out to all my deckers. Would jet set radio all over that bitch. [Google Maps 3D view from roughly the same position](https://www.google.se/maps/place/Tokyo,+Japan/@35.6490331,139.533142,3087a,20y,79.5h,74.73t/data=!3m1!1e3!4m2!3m1!1s0x605d1b87f02e57e7:0x2e01618b22571b89?hl=en)

From this it's easy to find the big landmarks. 

Shinjuku is group of skyscrapers on the left side in the middle, which is said to have the busiest subway station in the world. At the right side of the big green park you find Shibuya, you know the shopping district with the [worlds busiest street crossing](https://c1.staticflickr.com/3/2685/4458168800_2727610646_b.jpg),  and the cluster of "dark" skyscrapers, guess they are just being shadowed by a cloud, is just beyond the imperial palace and gardens. 



 It is in fact the only city large enough for my mother.   That's not how mother jokes work. You're supposed to say *other* people's moms are fat. I dont know your mom,  but If she is large I suggest she meet mine and they can create earthquakes together.  https://pbs.twimg.com/media/B4sFBdHCUAANck1.jpg ### it's a **MEGALOPOLIS!**  When I was visiting Tokyo I thought I would go out to the bar one night. I never thought about the fact that the trains might stop running at some point. So when I came out of the club at 2-3am, I realized I had to walk back to my hotel. Five hours later, after walking in a straight line, I got there.  Why not take a cab? no 24hour buses? 

They should join the London Masterrace, also a lot of our tubes are going 24 hours soon. I think I made something like this in SimCity once. The city barely lasted a week.  That traffic must be a blast to drive in  not much grid lock in my experience...amazing rail system Just don't try to get on the subway at 8am or prepared to have your personal space thoroughly violated. (   ) They do have the most complicated subway ever so  you shouldnt worry about car traffic Nobody drives, There is too much traffic. That restaurant is so crowded that nobody goes there anymore.  [I...but...](http://memecrunch.com/image/509852c2afa96f2d52000009.jpg) This is some kind of philosophical thought exercise, right?

If nobody drives, there is no traffic. If there is traffic too many people are driving.

There is no spoon. [Tokyo Metropolitan Expressway](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pW06IfXIb7M)

I can watch those videos for hours while listening to some music... That video is giving me some serious Trainspotting flashbacks. Awesome shot. It always blows my mind when I see non-US cities (as an American). I think Chicago or Charlotte or LA are huge, but they don't hold a candle to the size of some foreign cities. 

EDIT: 

Been getting some responses that seem to be questioning my inclusion of Charlotte. Please note that I included it because not only do I live here and love this city but I figured size-wise it is about the same as a lot of other American cities with the exception of the big three and would make a good reference point when comparing to non-American cities. 

Here's a pic of Charlotte's downtown:
http://i.imgur.com/oekSOWg.jpg

And here's a pic of Charlotte's downtown looking like Rapture from Bioshock:
http://i.imgur.com/IEaqYw5.jpg Charlotte ain't that big as far as American cities go.  Also, Tokyo metro area is only about 500 sq miles bigger than the LA metro area (5310 vs 4850).  Don't under estimate the shitty sprawl of LA. LA is no where near as dense, though.  The Tokyo Metropolitan Area's density is almost the same as LA's urban density.  Toyko's urban density is twice that of LA.

The crazy thing, to me, about Tokyo is neither the size nor the density but the combination of the two. &gt; shitty sprawl of LA

I cant even be mad at that. [deleted] The Oklahoma City metro is 6,359 square miles. Density is just 208 people a square mile though. It's something that people moving here just don't understand. There just can't be an efficient public transit system with that population density. That's less than 1/5 the population density of India, wilderness included. Except that the LA sprawl is largely residential, single family homes whereas in Tokyo it's large buildings and skyscrappers. And the Tokyo Metro area isn't even the world's biggest.

Check out the [Guangzhou Metro Area](http://i891.photobucket.com/albums/ac111/cnjoffice/200704201231371598.jpg) (44.5 million people).  That's more people in a sprawling city than all but the biggest *states* here in the US.

New York is impressive if you've never traveled outside of the US.  I remember how struck I was at the view of the boroughs from the top of 30 Rock.

Then I saw some of asia's largest cities from the air (Hong Kong, Guangzhou, Tokyo, Shanghai) and realized that the largest of the US cities would rattle around like a ball bearing in a tire in these places.  "Awesome" in it's true meaning. The Guangzhou metro area is almost all dense rural areas though. Like small towns only a quarter of a mile apart from each other. Think Bangladesh, with 160 million people in such a small area yet the majority of the country doesn't even live in cities. 

Tokyo is truly by far the largest city in the world. It's urban area, which is essentially where the city ends and the suburbs begin to fade away, is nearly 40 million people. The Guangzhou urban area is a fraction of that.  I like that one green spot. Like that. That is where I shall live! Looks like a giant computer motherboard.  Over 2000 7-11 stores are in Tokyo alone. This is also in part because small convenience stores (*conbini* )
are waayy more popular in Japan and offer tons of different services in them. Still that's a fuckton though. I'm from New York and everybody here talks about how amazing New York is and how it's the "greatest city in the world", but Tokyo easily gets that title in my eyes.  I went to Tokyo a few years back and it was absolutely amazing.  I was in Shinjuku and it was so nice and clean and beautiful.  I've been to NYC numerous times and it was so dirty, the streets were disgusting, tons of homeless people, just total noise pollution from cars hoking etc.  During my stay in Tokyo, over i think it was 4 days, I heard a total of 3 car honks.  3 Car honks in 4 days.  I can hear 3 car honks in 3 seconds in New York City.  So many international cities just outclass NYC, yet apparently NYC is a pride of our country.  Joe Biden's comments about LaGuardia airport a while back is really a microcosm of NYC as a whole, it's dirty, disgusting, and inefficient.  Tokyo's so great because it's like a nicer NYC, but far larger.   &gt; During my stay in Tokyo, over i think it was 4 days, I heard a total of 3 car honks. 3 Car honks in 4 days. I can hear 3 car honks in 3 seconds in New York City.

I was absolutely floored by how clean Tokyo is. I always thought of it as a minor detail until I visited, but then it hits you. This huge massive place is teeming with people, yet it's fucking immaculate. It's absolutely mind boggling. Because most people there grow up being taught not to be a fucking pig. Here in the U.S. it's a crapshoot whether or not your parents are going to give enough of a shit to raise you as a decent human being. Dude
 As a guy that lives in a country that has only about 320000 people (Iceland). This terrifies me. I have lived in a city my whole life that only has about eight teen thousand people, I can't imagine all the people that live in Tokyo  I'm pretty sure in the US your not technically a city until you reach 25000 people.  Nice try OP, that's a picture of Coruscant. [here's a 360 panorama shot of a part of Tokyo on 150 gigapixel camera](http://360gigapixels.com/tokyo-tower-panorama-photo/) Don't mind me [One look at their Subway Map might help add some perspective to the size.](http://www.mappery.com/maps/Tokyo-Subway-Metro-Transportation-Map.gif)  Is that all Tokyo? Or just the central part without its 'greater' area? As others have said this is only a part of Tokyo. It's an entire prefecture, also encompassing a lot of rural parts to the west. 

One thing about Tokyo is that it looks like a sea of buildings (and it is), but there's very little between stations. 15 minute walk radius around a station is about as far as businesses and people want to live. If you go further out its really only houses. So there are lots of parts of Tokyo that you'll never go to or have any reason to go to unless you live there. 

Another misconception is that it's ultra modern. In fact it's anything but. Maybe in the 80s in the bubble era it was ultra modern since everyone was building like mad and it was new. But since the bubble burst, much of the stuff in the 80s was never renovated and remains there today. So you'll have some really modern buildings peppered about between 30 year old buildings and then a few very old Showa era buildings that survived WW2 as a rarity. All purposefully old things (like temples) are largely re-built versions after they were destroyed in the war. 

Lastly it isn't all concrete and neon. In fact there are a lot of trees lining the streets and parks about. Tokyo feels more open and airy than Manhattan, where you're surrounded by high rises all the time. Quite a lot of Tokyo are 2-3 story single family units with maybe 5-10 story apartment buildings with some bigger ones thrown in in more condensed or nicer areas. Big work hubs like Otemachi and Shimbashi are all office buildings and surrounding restaurants. Once you get out of the Yamanote circle it gets very residential, and an hour outside of Tokyo starts to get into rice fields.  37 million people, and [none of them are having sex](http://www.thetimes.co.uk/tto/news/world/asia/article4328002.ece?shareToken=9a049b5302cdaba8f4602d4d4cefd937). Sounds like my house but just 1. percentages, man. pretty much the same. Only, the report is bunk. They cherry picked data from an extremely crappy online survey. It's not scientific by any means. See here:

[No, Japanese People Havent Given Up on Sex](http://www.slate.com/blogs/the_world_/2013/10/23/are_japanese_people_really_having_less_sex_than_anyone_else.html)

Their sex rate is nearly identical to the U.S. They're just not having as many kids (more people taking birth control). They ARE having sex - just not having babies.  Economy and what not.  *"Half of Japanese, and 45 per cent of married people, admitted that they had not had sex in the previous month"* [deleted] almost half the respondents though, that's pretty wild really They didn't have sex in a month. Is that really that bad? Not so bad for single people, but I've been married for 10 years, and yes, sex less than once a month is bad.

And if you haven't had sex even once in the past month, it's pretty likely that you haven't had sex for a good bit longer than that. Yeah the number for married people is surprisingly large, but also being married assumes that they have (or had) the option of getting kids. On the other hand, half of Japanese in general seems low but reasonable. So maybe relkin43 saying that "they ARE having sex" isn't that accurate, but I still agree with him that it's mostly about them not wanting to have babies, not because they aren't able to get laid. I'm sure everyone is completely honest and forthcoming about their sex lives.  There really isn't any room for embarrassment or awkwardness there, especially with the interpersonal openness between strangers (like surveyors and participants) that is key in japanese culture. Japanese people [aren't particularly shy about discussing sex](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sexuality_in_Japan), with strangers or with friends. What can be said about Japanese culture is that women typically are not supposed to express *desire* for sex. But that's not the same thing as not *talking* about it, or submitting to it. Not that I don't believe you, but I read the main part of the article and couldn't find anything about not being shy to discuss.  It's just been my personal experience that japanese girls (and guys now that I think about it) seem way more shy and hesitant to talk about sexual things. If you think Japanese are different from other 1st world countries, may be they are different in other aspects than sex, honesty, for example.  So less than 25% of marriages then?  Yeaaaaah but that's also horsepoop.  Better place to read about it. 

http://theweek.com/articles/453219/everything-need-know-about-japans-population-crisis 

 Married people dont count. They have secret sex with other people and wont admit it. XD Yea and I haven't had sex in the last 16 years...your point? Different culture.. most of them won't admit they had sex to a random guy on the street sponsored by Durex. This survey was done by the Japanese equivalent of Planned Parenthood. And contrary to what you seem to think, the Japanese aren't shy about discussing sex. It's fairly clear that these numbers [aren't the result of bad methodology or social factors](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sexuality_in_Japan#Decreasing_sexual_activity). I blame the blurry genitals. [Maybe saving it for Christmas](http://a.pomf.se/ulnpqu.webm). Time for us to repopulate the nation. San Fransokyo, here I come! I'll lend a...hand...to to the effort. :( I spent two weeks there and probably walked a good 25 miles. I would just take a train off somewhere and walk around. Holy shit, what a place with such great people.  HOLY SHITAKE
 This just helps remind me how green London is. Whatevs, the Earth is way bigger. I spy with my little eye, something that is gray.
  Godzilla for scale http://images.fanpop.com/images/image_uploads/Godzilla-goes-to-town-godzilla-46557_700_394.jpg http://www.citylab.com/tech/2013/07/prepare-waste-your-day-playing-fascinating-new-city-comparison-tool/6144/ For those who have been to Tokyo, how is it like traveling through this urban jungle? Can you quickly get around? How much time would it take to get from one far side of Tokyo to the other? trains and subway, man. japan has the most advanced and intricate train system, and in tokyo it really shines. look at [this map](http://www.tokyometro.jp/en/subwaymap/pdf/routemap_en.pdf). That just shows the subway lines (and one above ground commuter line, the JR Yamanote line). Besides that there's like, 15 other train lines run by different corporations crossing the city.

You could cross the image in OP in about an hour, depending on the line you take.

edit: the image does show a lot of the above ground and commuter lines. you can see keisei, jr, tobu, tokyu, odakyu, all sorts of different lines, just not all the  stops along the lines When you look at Google Maps at the place you want to go and think 'that looks like it's next door,  should take 5 mins to get there' then you get your directions and it tells you it takes 40mins, you suddenly realize how massive the city is. Looks like they've got getting around covered. [Tokyo subway map](http://i.kinja-img.com/gawker-media/image/upload/t_original/vdapn0blwsabg5wgtcra.jpg) My UPS guy put my package in the pile of other opened boxes I had in the trash. I live in a pretty bad neighborhood so it's understandable, and I'm glad he put a note on my door saying that's where he put it or else I never would've known. That's actually super clever. Unless someone else happened to read said note. That's why I put notes in the persons mail box or slide it under the door. I always see notes from customers on doors "Dear delivery guy, I'm out for the day, please leave any parcels around the back" roughly translated "If anyone feels like burgling my house please help yourself, If you fancy something a little less criminal there should be some presents around the back". &gt; roughly translated "If anyone feels like burgling my house please help yourself, If you fancy something a little less criminal there should be some presents around the back".

I don't know your district but who the fuck goes around town looking at people's doors for stickers like that? Where do you people live? In my community i could leave the door open with an invitation for free cookies, all the cookies would be gone, but nothing would be stolen... not even the milk.  But you run the risk of having random kids in your house, which could be hard to explain. Not in a community like that. I think you're on to something  Starting tomorrow we go door to door looking for delivery notes on people's doors Make sure you leave a yellow pages at every door to remember which ones you've checked.  Do Americans just universally hate and distrust their neighbours? Here the delivery people just go to the next house over if you aren't home. People suck. The cost to redeliver thousands of packages vs reimbursing the 1% where the neighbour steals/loses it, is worth it.


Anyway, that's how I see their logic. In the UK if my package isn't delivered I just have to pick it up from an office.  In the UK if MY package isn't delivered I just collect it from the Polish family next door. Literally this. Just had my package stolen a couple of days ago. We look like gluttonous, filthy rich fools on the surface. How did we get all this cool shit anyway?

Stole it. Like pretty much everything else in America, it depends where in America you live. What an unreasonably sensible answer. Yes.  Part of my job is selling entry level security systems and yes.  I hear about this sort of thing often. You see, in America we like to steal shit and be shitty to our neighbors... it's just what we do... Surely it varies from place to place though? I'm in the UK and in my area the standard practice is to leave a package with neighbours or outide, but there's other areas where there's no way I'd want it to be left anywhere other than inside my house or the post office. I think it's a bit harsh to say that all Americans are thieving bastards when, in reality, you get that in parts of every country! An American mailman would never leave mail with someone other than the recipient unless they were told to do so. We're real particular about our mail. 

Depending where you live it may or may not be standard practice to hide packages, but nowhere I've lived does this regularly.  Whereas the official USPS policy in my area seems to be this:

* We may deliver your mail, we may not deliver your mail. If you paid for a certified letter, we're definitely not delivering it.  Its the American way A bald eagle sheds a single tear. before someone steals that too...
 Guns, Cheesecake Factory, and theft.

Benjamin Franklin died for those. On the cross. You apostate.  Shoutout to whoever broke the window of my car while it was parked in the locked garage under my building, lit 24/7 with cameras, to take my backpacking gear.

usa usa usa Did they catch who did it? No. In America our cameras are never functional, and if they are, they only have 12 pixels. I never got that. Why can I make 1080p videos on my cellphones, but a full blown security camera always makes tape like it's from the 1950s.  This was true up until a year or two ago. You can get night vision 1080p+ (3MP) IP camera's for $130 (still too expensive for some of you cheap bastards out there), You can get a 6TB Hdd for $275, and a great NVR for under $1,000. You can get an 8 camera system for under $2500. Between  h264 encoding and movement detection, video takes up far less space than it used to.  
  
Being the shop down the street just paid $20,000 for a 30 camera system, people still installing analog are not keeping up with the times/are crooks. I could have done that system for the same price with wayyyy better clarity. You can barely make out someone's face right now, It's a complete joke and management was not very happy. &gt; with cameras

You have to turn them on. Not just install them. 
&gt;Do Americans just universally hate and distrust their neighbours?

Obviously no, but a lot of us are very reserved when it comes to neighborly interactions. Personally I would not want the mailman to go to the neighbors because I don't want to inconvenience them with my stuff.  Ive received mail for my neighbours and vice versa for all the holidays overseas we / they have taken for 2 years. We do a month on / month off trade.

But I live in New Zealand. Not sure if that has anything to do with it. I think that has almost everything to do with it haha It depends on the area! We do that sort of thing on my street, too. Sometimes the neighbor's dog gets out, and we'll just catch it and put it back. If anyone is going out of town, they mention it to the other neighbors. When it's warm, we see each other and chat about general life and kids and such. Small favors are no big thing, semi frequent, and nobody keeps tally of them or abuses it.

The US is not a homogeneous place. Isn't it both ways? Sometimes they are not home, sometimes you are not home. Its seems much more inconvenient that they will probably think the same way. So both of you have an easily solvable problem, if you just cooperated. Well like I said, I live in a pretty bad neighborhood. I get new neighbors every other week and I wouldn't trust them with anything, especially not a possibly expensive package. Where do you live? The Netherlands. Because PostNL is slow as hell so they make up for it with that.  i know them they got my big ass bong delivered to the US in less then 8 days My PostNL tracking has said "Shipment is pre-alerted" for four days wtf does that mean? This is the last time I use a british online store, walking to Amsterdam would be quicker than this shit. It's not our neighbors. I'm sure I don't speak for all Americans but for the most part folks will travel to nearby cities (10-15 miles away) and steal packages off of others folks porches.  No, they mean that your packages would be left with a neighbor to give to you when you are home.

Edit: oh shit, it's my cakeday?

edit2: oh, it's 1:30am, i still have a day. They'll do that for businesses. I get Sprint phones at my restaurant when their store isn't open yet. But for people, not that I have heard. They do that in UK, sadly they don't understand how shitty people can be. I've had neighbors steal my packages when the Delivery person thought "Oh we'll just leave it with them" instead of taking it back to the warehouse where I can get it re-ordered to the Post Office or something. 

 Yeah, we're the only country in the world that has neighbors that would steal shit. Definitely. What a stupid thing to say  