Extended stay housing or motels/hotels. When you can't qualify to get an apartment because you don't have proof of income, you end up wasting more money to stay for a week at extended day housing or a cheap motel. It sucks ass having no home/being a transient, I promise myself never to be in the same situation again. I have had students who've lived in extended stays. Apparently common practice in some places is to stay long enough to establish tenant rights, then stop paying until they're formally evicted.  After that, rinse and repeat.   Growing up my family had it's moments of struggle.  Our public transport system at the time had tickets which were simply hole-punched with the date and month, not the year.   So we'd save them and store them neatly in envelopes marked by month and concession or full fare.  After a few years of saving tickets we pretty much had free train and bus travel for the next 10 years... until they changed the ticketing system to electronically stamped tickets with bar codes. Mine were done by color and letter. I would see people with plastic baggies full of bus tickets, trying to find one that matched the current day's color and letter. My office only has a unisex bathroom so it has the facilities for men and women. Naturally there's a tampon machine, and tampons are only 5 cents. Once a month I'll work late, get a roll of nickels and fill up a grocery sack with tampons for my wife. Good man.  I learned how to be resourceful when I was dirt poor.  That skillset is still with me.  Nowadays, I'm no longer poor but I could not put myself to buying something that I do not need and if I did; I feel like shit.  Some people get a high from shopping, I get that shit feeling when I buy something. That's like me. I feel sick buying anything, and guilty unless I got an amazing deal or if it was used. I was so poor once that I would go to Long John Silvers and order a water and crunchies (which used to be free) then sit there and watch the people that would dine in.

It was amazing how little they ate. And then they would leave without dumping their tray off in the trash.

Fries, hushpuppies, chicken, fish... all untouched. No I didn't eat a piece that was bitten off of.

I once saw a woman order a 2 piece fish and more for her kid, that ate 1 hushpuppy and a few fries, and then left the rest of it there. It was the best I had eaten in weeks.

Glad that's behind me now. I'm surprised they let you stay without buying anything. "No I didn't eat a piece that was bitten off of."

As someone who has never had to worry about where the next meal is coming from (like that's some kind of qualification or something...), even if you had have done that, the only shame would have been that we live in a society where people have to do that to get by.

 When I was child, Burger King ran a special kids meal where it was two mini Burgers that were attached to each other like a weird conjoined burger experiment.  Sometimes we would go.  My dinner was 1.5 of the mini burgers, my moms dinner was the half I didn't eat and she would fill up on the free refills of soda. my mom would buy a small personal pizza for my brother on special occasions like if he did really well on a test at school or something. Even though it was only like $2, she couldnt afford anything for herself so she would eat his leftover crust. She told me he would always tell her "Mommy are you hungry? Go buy one just for you" and she would just say "No I'm not hungry, I only want a little snack" 

She only just told me this a few years ago and I was shocked because by the time I came along my dad had gotten a good job and we lived just like anyone else... I had no idea that my older brother grew up like that. Everything here is making me cry lol Your mom was a saint. I hope you are able to help her out today. For some reason this was the comment I teared up at. Your mom only eating half got me. She's a good mother. Hope you're both in a much better financial situation now.  This got me too because I remember my mom doing the same thing at Burger King. They had this deal where you could get 2 burgers and 2 fries for $2.22. There were five of us boys and she was a single mom, so she'd order like 3 or 4 of these deals and just eat whatever was left (if anything).

Texting her now to say thank you. Lots of school systems do free lunches for kids under 18 during the summer. When I was a kid I remember my dad taking us to get lunch at the school then go play disc golf, soccer, or do something else free and fun, it was a blast and I had no clue it was because we were poor.

Dollar theaters, and sometimes they have a free afternoon/evening show for kids with the purchase of a parent ticket. Many movies were seen by the three of us for $4 with a shared popcorn and coke.

My dad was amazing at making us feel rich on basically nothing.

EDIT

A lot of people seem to pointing out my dad was irresponsible for having children without being financially prepared. My mom left us when I was 6, little brother was 2. She had her own stuff to work out, but she wasn't there to help out. My dad was an assistant teacher at the time,working to become a teacher, which was plenty to support us with her help, but alone and suddenly without any help he struggled. He ended up getting a second job, but we were still pretty poor for several years before he got his teaching position.
 My Dad was also king of this too. 

Our bonding nights consisted of a couple rented movies from Blockbuster, turkey bacon on the George Foreman grill, and instant cappuccino powder in milk. He would save up the entire time between visits and when my sister and I visited, we would go on one big "adventure". One time we went horseback riding, another time we went cave exploring. We didn't have fancy camping gear either, we had his basic issue field stuff from the Army. He would make the coolest forts and we'd spend a day/night out in the woods and play euchre or rummy by the campfire. My sister, my dad and I played a game called super spy, where my dad would leave clues, draw maps, pretend to be a character and give confessions. My sister and I would have to figure out the plot, who was the bad guy, and save the day.

My favorite thing we ever did was follow the creek out on my grandparents land and discover these little water falls. He bought a disposable camera and took my picture in front of every one of them. We made a colored map on poster paper, colored a legend, and he glued the pictures of me and my waterfalls on to it. I would lead my cousins on trips along the creek with my super spiffy map me and my dad made. 

I get overwhelmed at times thinking about how hard he tried to make the time we had together awesome and never about what we couldn't do because we were too poor. Good on him. You really realize how much your parents do for you once you get older and look back. Hope you're better off now, bud.  We all are, I just hope that one day I'll be half the dad for my kids. Seriously, sounds like you had a great dad.  He gave you his time, you can't buy that.

Edit: Thank you so much for the gold! Stuff on layaway. My mom would always go to this store that sold heavily discounted irregulars and put it on layaway for our new school clothes. Near where I live there is one of those guys who cleans out basements and storage buildings for a living.  he also has these *huge* yard sales 2 or three times a year along a main highway; pretty incredible to see. he even puts up traffic control and parking signs because so many people stop when it is busy.

   This guy saves up all of the kid's clothes he comes across during the year, and toward the beginning of August he has a yard sale that is mostly clothing.    The moms from the local trailer parks all come to this sale and fill bags with clothes for their kids, which he then puts in his garage and holds on layaway.   These mothers come to his back door and make weekly payments on used school clothes and shoes for their kids all month. I may be optimistic here but this guy sounds like he has a well thought-out plan with a very generous side benefit to his community.  Probably not getting rich, but it sounds like he provides a needed service, and from the sound of how busy it is, he is fair about it. My mom did this at Ames and the lines were always super long. I thought this was what everyone did. Growing up was interesting regarding money. My mom was a hoarder and I lived in a house with trash including animal waste everywhere with no heat or running hot water.  I use to take jugs of water and put them on my front porch to warm up enough to bath with. The house was failing apart and the tub was actually sinking into the ground so we wouldn't use it so I made a hole in the corner of my basement floor so it would drain.  The worst was winter the water never got warm because of the cold and my hair would be frozen since there was no heat.
It took me a long time to figure out this wasn't normal. 
What made everything worst was she was abusive and made us poor with her spending. She made about 1,000 a week or more and would give it to charity so others saw her in a positive light ( they didn't know about the house) once she even won the lottery and got 82,000 and gave it all away. All I asked was for a trailer so we had someplace to get warm or shower but she saw nothing wrong with our life.
There would also be days she gave our food money away and I wouldn't be able to eat if there was no school.
My mother is a bitch and we have no contact anymore.
On the awesome side I have four kids and a three level house with 4 bathrooms... Guess who showers all the time with hot water now!!!!! I had to move out on my own when I was 17.  I had no money at all and drove an old clunker Camry.  I got a flat tire to match the flat spare in the trunk.  I went to the Discount Tire on the East Side of Indianapolis, where I was living, to see if they could patch it.

When they got it on the rack, they said that belts were showing around the tire--in fact, all of the tires--and I would have to replace all four tires.

I thanked them, went outside, sat in my car and started crying.  The manager came out and knocked on the window.  He said that he had a set of tires that would fit my wheels that someone left when they got new tires.  I told him thanks, but didn't have any money.  He told me not to worry about it and when I graduate, to come back and buy my tires from them.

Edit:  Wow. Thanks for the up-votes and gold (I'm pretty new to reddit so I'll have to find out what that means!)
 
1.  The manager of the store is no longer there and has since gotten another store (this was 20 years ago).  The current manager knew him and said it was the right thing to have done!  
2.  The store is not in Carmel or Fishers (those are the northside, fancy-schmancy neighborhoods.  I was on the east side of Indy, in the rough part :)
3.  I'm pretty sure it was not a marketing campaign--if it was, it was a pretty bad one.  When I was 17, I LITERALLY looked like I was 13--I doubt he thought I was going to do anything with my life, based on the little he could ascertain about my situation.  I think he was probably just a really nice person, maybe had a son my age. Gotta ask, did you buy your tires from them? Yea, every time.  In fact, my wife, son and I moved away to Brooklyn, NY. Last fall, when making our final visit home for the year to visit my wife's fam, I drove, just so I could get new tires there.  They're all still really nice guys.   That's awesome. Just shows that a little kindness goes a long way. Good Manager. I worked for another tire chain on lafayette for a couple years, and some of the shit we saw was heartbreaking. We tried to help when we could. I am glad to see a happy story from the industry in my home town, even if it wasn't my store.

I hope all is going well for you now. I drove on a flat spare to a discount tire here in austin one morning. My husband's (then boyfriend) car was our only means of transportation and i had to take home to work first. I got to discount tire to get them to patch my flat and it was the same thing, the tire was bald to the mesh stuff, and another tire was, too. We had $23 to our names, we had just (thankfully) paid our rent, and i asked him to please just fix the flat and we would deal with it when we could.

He told me that he couldnt, in good conscience,  let me drive on those tires, and then gave me two tires, just gave them to me. He said that he couldnt stand the thought of a tire blowing out on me, so he would take care of it. (It should be noted that I'm not even a cute girl)

We are much better off now, and whenever I need anything tire related, I go to that discount tire. That's incredibly touching.  I have been both very poor and very comfortable. A lot of very true statements already posted here, but here's what I have noticed. When you are broke, you can't plan ahead or shop sales or buy in bulk. Poor people wait to buy something until they absolutely need it, so they have to pay whatever the going price is at that moment. If ten-packs of paper towels are on sale for half price, that's great, but you can only afford one roll anyway. In this way, poor people actually pay more than others for common staple goods. 
Edit: Holy cats! Thank you for the gold! This is true.  It's expensive to be poor in the US. To anyone out there reading this who are in dire straights financially I HIGHLY suggest you contact your local United Way (call 2-1-1 on your phone) and get information about the resources in your area.

In my area, they have a huge database of charities that will 1.) pay your bills 2.) pay your rent 3.) help you find work 4.) get you cheap or free health care 5.) a list of local food pantries as well as many other resources.

In addition anyone facing joblessness or homelessness should definitely check to see if they can get S.N.A.P. or unemployment benefits. 

If you are under 25 years old check out Job Corps.

I would also check out Union jobs, in my area the local pipe fitters union is hiring apprentices at $26 an hour. All you need is a High School Diploma or GED.  

There are also charities that will give your pet free food and health care. 

If there's a need there is a resource for it.

There is no reason why anyone should go without food, healthcare, or shelter in the U.S. regardless of citizenship status.

Anyone reading this, I am happy to help you find resources IN YOUR AREA.

Edit: Oh the sweet sweet Karma! 

Regarding contacting the United Way...

In the U.S. and Canada you simply dial 2-1-1 on your phone OR (and more effectively IMHO) google "211 (insert my state or city here). You SHOULD get a searchable database of all the resources in your area. 

Here is Kansas City's website (as an example) http://uwgkc.bowmansystems.com

Once there i can do a keyword search



 We didn't buy it, but growing up very poor, we got a monthly ration from the gov't called "commodities". Each family would get a box with a random assortment of products that had been packages by the Gov't from industrial remnants. Powered milk, a large can of shredded pork, a bag of rice, and dried beans came almost every month. If you were REALLY lucky, you'd get a block of "cheese" (made from remnants of many types, swiss, cheddar, jack, etc. processed into one) which tasted a bit like musty velveeta.

The longest portion of my childhood was spent with my blind grandmother, and these commodities would give us some variety in our diet. Outside of this, our diet consisted of different combinations of potatoes and margarine, sometimes eggs. after selling plasma i would walk to wendys and eat the crackers and ketchup for dinner Sold so much plasma in college folks thought I had track marks from drugs. How much do you get for selling plasma? Where I live there are 2 options

1. premium option is research donor - they pay you for plasma if you have specific allergies so they can experiment with your antibodies.  This pays up to $200 per donation, normal is about $100.  They also treat you like a client, have a clean place, and you can be in and out in half an hour.  Most people don't qualify for this because they don't have the right allergies or maybe have a blood-bourne disease.

2. The barely legal human farm of plasma "donation" sometimes called a biomat.  They just want your blood juice so they can sell it to patients as a treatment at an obscene markup.  You sit or stand in an assembly line until the employees (the only people in the whole building paid less than you) look up from their GED prep materials long enough to play pin-the-needle-in-the-poor-guy and then try to avoid eye-contact with you until the blood-o-matic finishes sucking out your lifeforce.  They pay between $25 and $50 per donation, with $5-20 bonuses for being a repeat visitor. They usually just do walk-in appointments and wait times can be anywhere from 1/2 - 3 hours, so it potentially pays less than minimum wage.

edit: also want to mention, I stopped going becuase I vomitted afterward on 2 occasions due to the rapid dehydration of removing a liter of fluid from my body over the course of 30 minutes.  I don't recommend it.

edit2: There are many different businesses in the #2 category, some treat you better than others evidently.  Mine felt more like a gas station bathroom than a doctors office.  You will have a different (and probably better) experience than mine.  Read this as a subjective 1-star yelp review of my personal donation experience, not an expert opinion. That sounds.. Shitty? Ive been a donor at Biolife for years. Very comfortable and professional My BioLife keeps training new guys on me D:&lt; That just means you've got good veins. Feel free to tell them no. There is no requirement to allow the newbies to practice on you, and  you're not the only one with good veins out there. There are plenty of others they can get practice on. I had a really odd childhood.  Until age 9 my family would have been classed as upper middle class.  Then my father left and my mum went bat-shit crazy.

From 9 to 18 we were dirt poor.

I remember being 10 years old and our weekly treat was to go to the Littlewoods cafe (I think they went bust) and they did a 99p 5 piece breakfast.  We shared that among my mum, brother, sister, and me.  One of us got the extra item; we'd take turns.

As an adult I have made sure my children will never know poverty because of excellent memories like that.  Nothing motivates you more than memories of fighting over a solitary sausage.  Same situation in my family as well, with my dad leaving when I was nine.  He spent an astonishing amount of time and energy dodging the courts mandating him to pay child support.  And when my youngest sister turned 18, he called her on her birthday to say, "Hey, since you're 18 now, can you tell your mother that I don't need to pay all the back child support I owe...? Ha!

My cousin pulled this shit on his nine kids. (six moms)

Let just say he won't be getting a driver's license for a long, long time. (he drives drunk anyway so I have no sympathy to his whimpering about "how can I work?" Bitch, you worked under the table for 27 years just so you didn't have to help raise your kids, while they ate ketchup and duck bread!) He probably still drives. Have an alcoholic uncle who hasn't had a license in years who still drives to job sites (he does shady unlicensed roofing and carpentry) while usually drunk, in a van with no registration or valid tags (he steals tags off cars in parking lots to use for that) and gets caught often, goes to prison, gets out, gets my grandma to buy him a ton of beer, and is back to drinking and driving less than a day after release. Every single time.  Having been in a similar situation, and even as a grown ass man to have as low as $0 and no more than $100 to my name for about a year, those days and nights spent freaking out on what's going to happen past that immediate day and far too much time spent feeling like an abysmal failure really do help as motivation to never go there again. A buddy of mine went through a tough time a few years back, and I didn't know about it until he told me about a year ago.  One thing that stuck with me was that he made just enough money to survive.  By survive, he meant literally enough money to pay rent, utilities and the cheapest, worst food he could buy.  He couldn't afford transportation.  Not even the bus.

He told me about a span of a few months he went through where he literally only ate water, dry noodles and peanut butter.  For a few *months*...

He worked at a restaurant and they cut his hours.  He couldn't find other work.  His first big reality check was that he had to sell his car to make rent one month.  The next month he started selling other "unnecessary items"...like his old TV, some old appliances and his nicer clothes.

He got to the point where he was doing his laundry with dish soap in his sink.  He couldn't afford deodorant, razors or any of the things we take for granted...so he'd steal them from the grocery store.  He didn't like to do it, but he had no choice.  He never got caught.

When he told me all of this, I was floored.  I wish he would have told me when it was happening.  I would have helped any way I could.  At that time, I was by no means living a fancy lifestyle, but I could have thrown him a $20 spot here and there to help him put some groceries in the house or some TP in the bathroom.  Fuck, just thinking about it makes me ill.

He's still poor today, but he works full time and is happy...at least from what I see. You must understand why he didn't tell you - his friend - about his money woes. He couldn't. People in poverty too often suffer silently because they can't imagine how friends and family would think of them if they spoke up.

Also, I sometimes think about how easy it would be to steal a few things from the average grocery store. Self checkout... just not scanning items. Obviously immoral, but easy.

Edit: awesome, insightful replies; I love reading them and will upvote them all. I feel sick to my stomach for what some of you have went through/are going through, and for others I'm glad you were able to finally make ends meet. I totally understand.  I know he considers me one of his closest friends, and I am sure he wanted to tell me.  I just wish he could have.  I wouldn't have thought twice about it. My family asked me at xmas how I was making ends meet after losing my job the monday before thanksgiving. I couldn't bring myself to tell them that I'm not. I imagine it's pretty common.

That feeling? that's pride, fucking with you. Learning the times of the day when meat, bakery, fish, vegetable and misc. items are reduced to 75% at the local supermarket.

I've been learning for years, but it's a good day when you find 400g of fresh mince for 99p, and you have warm filling food that you used to take for granted when living with parents.

One thing Ive noticed about being poor is that you become almost vegetarian because meat just costs too damn much. Frozen or fresh.

Another thing would be buying the cheapest large container of yoghurt, and mixing in jam for fruity yoghurt. But that's not about being poor, that's just a good idea. I make a good living and I do the yogurt thing. Still saves a ton and I honestly like it better because I can make it less sweet than the premixed stuff. Even still buying fage yogurt I save about $5/week doing my yogurt that way. Doesn't seem like much but that's over $250/year and every little thing helps when you have crushing student loan debt your trying to murder.  &gt; 400g of fresh mince for 99p

I believe that means a pound of ground beef for $1.50.  Which is a great price. The first four years of my life were spent in abject poverty.

As a child, I would ask my Mom if we could get a candy bar.  She would explain to me, at age 3, that we could get the candy bar, but if we did, it meant we couldn't afford a 2 liter of Coca-Cola.  She would phrase it like so, "If you get the candy bar, it'll be gone in a few days, but if you get the Coca-Cola, we can have Coca-Cola for the **whole** week."

Amazingly, I knew enough to understand that Coca-Coca for over a week was a better deal than two days of a candy bar.

As a side effect, I was regularly told "No" when I asked for things I wanted... mostly Lego sets or He-Man toys.

Around age 6, my father's stake in a mineral prospecting company finally paid off.  Turns out he had been putting every dime he had into it since before I was born.  We went from surviving on mayonnaise sandwiches to having 2015's equivalent of $10,300 per month in income.  My little sister was around 2 or so at this time, and she was getting everything she wanted.  For the first 6 years of my life, I had learned that asking for things I wanted would always end with a "No", so I never asked for anything.

My parents weren't able to put it together until my grandmother got very sick and came to live with us.  The whole family was out shopping, and my grandmother knew I loved Legos, but I didn't ask for a set of them.  Meanwhile, my little sister had a Barbie doll and a My Little Pony in each hand.

She stopped and asked me, "Rathadin, you don't want a Lego set?"  "Mommy and Daddy always tell me no, Grandma.  We can't afford them."

I have only a very vague memory of this, but before she died, my Grandmother told me this story and said that my Mom broke down in tears in the middle of the store, sobbing.  My Dad had a look of defeated failure on his face (according to her).  Apparently, it simply never occurred to them the reason I never asked for anything was because I had always been told no.

For Christmas, I got three Lego Technic sets. I didn't tell my parents about the week's school trip to France back in 1983 as I understood money was always tight. I just didn't deliver the letter home, and kept my mouth shut. The week that 60 students from my year went to France I went to school as usual and joined in classes with other students. All my friends were abroad, I was so lonely.  

I finally fessed up about 10 years ago and my Mum cried and said all I had to do was ask. I just didn't want to put a strain on their finances. I remember telling my parents I didn't want to go to France for my schools trip. I did, I just knew it would have meant them cutting back on things all year to afford it. 

Never telling them that. My school did a Europe trip for a few countries over two weeks. My learned about it and tried. She really did try. But, when we saved about $500 for it, we were still $1500 away we realized I needed a passport and my stepdad's truck broke down... So it set everything back. I appreciate that my mom tried.  Definitely this: as a kid, I would come home for weeks, bleeding from cuts all over my feet. Apparently, the soles in bargain-basement running shoes would get shredded every few months.

Getting used to the "no" response is simple for children; finding out when it was OK to ask for something was much much harder (even now). Not to the same extreme, but I am going through a similar phase in life. Growing up I would only get toys on Christmas and Birthdays, but man you could feel the sacrifice that went into everything. Beans, rice, potatoes, and salsa every day. Eventually my father started his own business and we were much better off than before. Today my sister gets nearly whatever she wants whenever. As much as I am happy for her, its crazy to see the difference in lifestyle. I was too young to understand just how poor we were as a kid growing up, but looking back now I appreciate it as it makes me take nearly nothing for granted. I work for a startup in the bay area and we currently we work in a co-working space. Has a free gym, meals on Wednesdays, free coffee, snacks, and a slide from the second floor to the first. The stuff people will complain about is just insane. Still it also makes everything 10x better to you than everyone else around you.  annnd I'm crying. powdered milk.  I once worked in a call centre and an old lady called almost in tears that cable went up by $1.50.  Her line that she repeated more than once was that she couldn't afford fresh milk and had to buy powdered milk.  Unless it's due to a lack of refrigeration available or some sort of allergy, only the very poor would buy powdered over fresh milk. We drank powdered milk growing up. It was terrible. Sometimes my mom would mix a bit of cream in to make it taste better. It didn't work. UGH. Thanks for bringing up this painful memory. I feel your pain buddy. We weren't even poor, Mum made us drink it because it was 'healthier'. To make 'cream', she would just add more powder for the same amount of water.

Luckily we only had to suffer this torture for 2 years until Dad convinced her to start buying real milk again

Edit: word. Is your mom Jamaican?

A few decades ago the US government spent millions of dollars convincing Jamaicans that powdered milk is healthier than normal milk.

(Coincidentally, that's also when Jamaica's dairy market collapsed and never recovered. They now rely on American powdered milk). Haha, nah not JamaicanAustralian.

You couldn't make that shit up! I guess the US powdered milk manufacturers have a great consumer base now. 

Every few months they have media scare campaigns on how regular cows milk is toxic and you should be drinking goat's/sheep's/camel's milk. That and the milk price war between the two major supermarkets here is putting pressure on the dairy farmers. Stay tuned for an Australian dairy industry collapse or a shift to goat farming! Powdered milk used to be very popular in the 70's and 80's.  Food drives back then always used to include it in the list of preferred items for donation.  But now it's almost impossible to find and it probably won't be cheap.  I think it's because milk producers found other uses for their excess milk, ie. yogurt.

*Edit* - TIL that in the U.S. you can buy powdered milk everywhere and that if you have a lot of it, you can make a butt load of money by shipping it to China.

 Here in Canada, milk producers just pour it down the drains. That what quotas and tariffs get you. Reminds me of my call center days. There was an elderly lady on such a tight budget who would call me all the time, she had very little money but such a love for the KFC she lived next door to. She'd call into the bank and plan what she could afford to get at KFC each day that week.  "I guess I'll only be getting a 2-piece meal on Tuesday since I had to get Ibuprofen last night." At home surgery. Used a pair of needle nose pliers, a razor blade and some anti septic super glue to remove a cyst on my forehead. The secret is to cut it in a "cat's eye" shape, quickly push the skin back after you pull the cyst out (don't let it pop) and get the glue on fast. Burn like ten bitches on a bitch boat, but it bleeds a lot and you have to get it on quick to stop the bleeding. OH GOD. Im sorry you were ever this poor. How could you ever do that, like in terms of willpower? Honestly I was sick of having a giant lump on my head. By the time I gave in it was about the size of a green grape, just above my eyebrow on the right side. It made me feel awkward. I didn't have any kind of insurance so I checked the internet and went to it. It really didn't hurt that bad to remove it, it just bled a lot because it was on my forehead. Honestly, even now knowing how easy, simple and painless it was, I'd probably do it myself again, Except I'd use higher quality tools and would splurge on some butterfly strips. my dad pulled his own tooth once. said it hurt less than the tooth itself.

that was one poor motherfucker, i wonder where he's at I knew a guy that would go to a livestock feed store and buy antibiotics and some other meds there that were meant for farm animals when he got sick. There was another med he'd get at pet stores too. He'd just cut the pills into smaller pieces to try to guess what the proper mg amount was. It's apparently crazy cheap for certain meds and doesn't require a prescription or govt. oversight like it would at a normal pharmacy. My parents would just get cheap antibiotics over the border in Mexico. That and roach poison and some other stuff like that (that we probably don't carry in the U.S. for a good reason). Mexico has cheaper medicine and in some cases higher dosages on OTC stuff for say the flu or a cold Now that's fucked. I buy "fish" antibiotics online because I can't afford health care.  Which antibiotic for what ailment? Genuinely curious.  Is it fin rot? It's fin rot, isn't it? Tell me it's not fin rot! It's dropsy :( Feed him (shelled) frozen peas for a week. Amoxicillin and such. Mostly for husband who has Lyme's disease. We can't afford our monthly health care rates. We are 30somethings in the US. Really feel like a "bottom feeder".  Guns n' roses used to do the exact same thing in their early years to rid themselves of STDs. It's in Duffs autobiography.   Gabapentin (used for fibromyalgia) is not covered with my insurance and costs $300 for 90 pills. You can buy it at 1-800-pet-meds for $20 for 100 pills of a higher milligram. 

Edit: Clarified that it's not covered with my insurance, not insurance in general. Also I stopped taking it a year ago, so it may have changed; I was on it for three years.

Edit 2: I never actually took it through Pet-Meds. I had ordered it for my pet and laughed with the vet about cost difference. Rent-to-own furniture. $500 flat screen becomes $2,000 when you pay by the week. Rent-to-own anything really. I've seen rent-to-own TV's, laptops, iPads, etc... I've seen commercials for rent to own places for people to buy Christmas presents there! Ouch, can they repo stuff if you don't pay? Yes! Not only that, but unlike buying something on credit, it does NOTHING to improve your credit score. Only negative if for some reason you default. 

Not only that but 15/wk sounds great for a pimp laptop or couch, but over 4 yrs that's over 3k for a couch or lappy. When other people will use credit cards or rewards cards or both to buy something on low interest that improves your credit, rent-to-own ANYTHING is a garbage way to OWN anything aside from debt.  craigslist furniture 

-sent from my $30 craigslist couch Couches are risky, may have tenants in them. Sometimes eleven. 


EDIT - Thanks for the Au **x2**!  About a year ago, I was addicted to alcohol, 4000 km from home, dropped out of school and living in my 20 year old car. I got so used to eating microwaved potatoes that I considered walking into a 7/11 and pocketing a handful of mayo packets while pretending to buy a hot dog, a special treat.

I grew up distinctly middle class and generally did not want for much. My recent experience has really put into perspective the difficulties experienced by people who are or have been in similar situations to myself, but bare the burden of direct responsibility to kids and family.

Things have gotten a lot better since I've accepted the help of other people. Seriously, even relatively tiny gestures of kindness will go a long way with someone who is literally struggling for survival. Never underestimate the impact you can have upon another person's life. I'd probably be dead by now if it weren't for the unconditional love and support of friends, family, and random strangers.

Instead, I'm 25, relatively healthy again, and back in school trying to finish off my engineering degree.

If you've taken the time to read this then thank you, it means a lot!
 Just in case someone needs it, /r/EatCheapAndHealthy/ has nice recipes The generic version of Spam is called Treet. You learn that sorta thing as a kid.  There's a generic brand for Spam?! Jesus... Oh god. Bags of frozen veggies and a couple packs of ramen can make a family meal. I used to buy these awful frozen chicken discs wrapped in bacon - they were terrible - filled with gristle and just nasty. Eating those with rice and frozen corn was a real treat. 

I ate kraft dinner (mac and cheese) every day for about 2-3 years because that was all I could cook while my mom worked. (I could have made spaghetti-os, but I hated those), That for dinner, and one of those cheap 99 cent pack donuts from the grocery store for breakfast. Lunch was Bologna sandwich and an apple.  Finally, when I was about 10 or 11, I started teaching myself how to cook  from my mom's old cook books so my meals got a lot better. All carbs, and cheap fats - scalloped potatoes, rice and cheap meats. 

My local bus service used to have paper transfers. So you'd pay your fare, get the paper transfer that was good for an hour, and then you'd use it for the next bus. But if you were only going to the station, you'd get a paper transfer anyway, then hang around the station for an extra 5 minutes to see if anyone needed it. Conversely, you'd wait around for people getting off the bus, to see if you could score someones transfer. This only worked if you weren't switching buses, but I got quite a few free rides this way (and gave many a transfer away) 

Going without meds, living in constant pain because you can't afford a prescription. I remember laying in my bed at night, and my mom would be sobbing in her bed from pain, because she couldn't afford the meds that would treat her rheumatoid arthritis or anything but generic tylenol for her pain. I guess that's not reallly buying anything, but while we're down memory lane..

Saving your birthday money from your grandma and aunts and uncles so you can pay for a babysitting course that lets you babysit at 12. Getting a babysitting job at 12, and babysitting every day from 3 until 7 or 8, to earn some money. Giving that money to your dad so he can pay his phone bill and put gas in his car. Getting a real job at 14, working at a fast food joint so you got to eat dirt cheap. Still giving your dad money, but this time knowing it is going to the casino or the bar (but still doing it anyway). 

Being poor was awful 0/10 do not recommend. 

EDIT: Reddit gold? Thanks stranger :) In university I used to buy a 10-20lbs bags of potatoes, freeze dried chives, and gravy mix in bulk (not the supermarket packs which are $1 for 2 cups of gravy, restaurant sized packs that make 8 liters)

That was often dinner, usually at the end of the month when money got tight. Sometimes I had even saved enough that I could have mashed potatoes made with some sort of dairy, or bacon grease.

I also had a cheap tub of protein power for weight lifters, it was gross. But I would blend it up, usually with water hold my nose and gulp it down. It was actual protein, and slightly more healthy then a week long diet of potatoes. From what I've read, potatoes are the one solid food that a person can get all their nutritional requirements from. They may not be happy with that 89th consecutive meal of potatoes at the end of the month, but they won't be malnourished. Strangely enough... that's exactly why I bought potatoes. I got my info from a documentary on the Irish potato famine, which taught me I could almost live on this dirt cheap, lasts forever food. I feel like reading askreddit threads might save my life one day It saved mine when I was choking and remembered to throw myself against a chair.

EDIT: Okay RIP my inbox like srsly. I'll give you guys the story.


I was at the pool with a couple of friends and when we were done, I went home. I was so hungry because being in a pool makes you hungry, go figure. My mom had grilled a piece of chicken breast and I ate it. That last bite wasn't so chewed so when I tried to swallow, I couldn't. I had the great idea to take a breath of air, *then* swallow. Well the chicken was dry, and now lodged in my throat. There I am running like a chicken with my head cut off around the house, and I can't breathe at all. I run to my porch and remember that my mom's at the neighbor's house and I think about running there. Can't I'm gonna look like an idiot. So I start coughing or try to at least. Then I remember the Heimlich. I try hitting myself int he stomach, nothing. Fuck I'm dead! Then I see a chair, and I throw myself against it with the spine hitting me in my diaphragm and *pop* the chicken cork pops out. Not out of my mouth, but into it. I had a sore esophagus for days, but I wasn't dead.

It ended up happening again with pork. Was still scared as shit though.


My other comment seems to have been buried. It had a picture of how to do it

http://content.artofmanliness.com/uploads//2011/08/heimlich-maneuver-on-oneself.jpg

Here can you explain what you mean? If you're choking and you're alone, you should throw yourself on a chair back rest. Right under your ribs. It simulates the heimlich just stronger. Almost. You generally need a dairy source to cover something like 1-2 vitamins that potatos don't provide. Can't recall which they are, though Vitamins A and D. And that's assuming you're eating the skin, too, not peeling them and mashing them or something. The skin has only 20% of the overall nutrients of the potato (a lot, given the difference in size), but a majority of the fiber, zinc, calcium, and magnesium. That's [not true](http://www.straightdope.com/columns/read/2828/could-i-survive-on-nothing-but-potatoes-and-milk), and neither is the amended form with dairy. However, you *can* do it on potatoes, milk, and oatmeal, if you don't mind eating a *lot*. This thread makes me want to help people. /r/Food_Pantry/ /r/randomactsofpizza /r/assistance /r/randomactsofpizza saved my butt a few months ago. I had just switched jobs, just moved to a new town, my car was broken, my boyfriend and I just split up so I was trying to make rent on my own, and my dog had a really bad ear infection that ended up costing almost $200 in medicine. I had -$6 in my bank account for another five days until payday and had zero food in the kitchen. 

I posted there on a whim, and ended up with about $70 in Papa John's gift cards. Damn good people there. Rotten bananas, stale bread, gray meat, and anything else the grocery is about to toss in the garbage.  Giant bags of rice, beans, grain, or flour.  Canned vegetables.  Dried milk.   I feel like few rich people even know about the Grocery Store Bakery clearance section. Bread pudding is a good use of stale bread.  So are homemade croutons.

Edit:  And French toast, as many people have noted.  Regular toast isn't bad with stale bread, either. Best bread pudding I've ever had came from stale donuts.  My favourite high-end grocery makes their bread pudding out of stale cinnamon rolls, croissants, and other bakery goods.  It's damned delicious. That living in a semi-rural community means that doing chores for old farmers means they let you walk through their fields to dig your own turnips. Cut your own mustard greens. That turnip greens are awesome with the juice from left over pickled peppers. 

You can plant and grow more squash, zucchini and cucumbers than you can eat if you shovel the neighborhood horse stalls for fertilizer. 

Government cheese and peanut butter can be stretched and modified.

The ladies at church will help if you ignore the gossip and backhanded remarks. 

That the stove in a 3 room house can be used to cook and heat. 

and I too figured it out way too early that "I already ate" was a pleasantry to make me and my brother feel better. 

Beans, Rice and butcher leavings can go a long way. Those are the main things we had to buy. Everything else was bartered for, charity of the church and "commodities". 

Learning to hunt was essential. We lived on the edge of Champion paper company land. They let us hunt. Squirrel and Rabbit go a long way towards adding some income and meat. I could keep us in milk by taking the skins to the local processor along with rattlesnakes.  

Also, there are cheaper places than Goodwill, if you know where to look. Garage sales, dumpsters... if you know what to look for. I still can not stand the smell of mildewed cloth without having an anxiety attack. Same for rotting chicken. 

The things our parents (Or in my case, grandmother) will do to feed us. 

Edit: Thank you /u/obscure_renegade for the gold! My first!  Handfuls of ketchup packets from McDonald's. Growing up my mom used to tell me of a homeless guy she knew of that would go into the local McDonalds and get a free cup of hot water. Then proceeded to add ketchup, salt and pepper to make himself a hobo tomato soup. 

Edit: apparently a lot of people know about hobo tomato soup. Thanks for all the responses, you've given me something to do at work today. That's almost brilliant! *Almost* /r/shittylifehacks ? We still keep a drawer filled with packets of condiments from fast food restaurants. We grew up poor so we always saved them. Now its not really necessary, but its still a habit. You can get new car parts from the junk yard for virtually nothing, with added discounts if you remove them from the junkers yourself.  I had a 12-yr-old car in college and when it blew a tire, I went to the junk yard and found a decent set of tires.  Bought all 4 for $70, which reduced my food budget to $16 for the next two weeks.  Some lady in the grocery store saw me with a calculator trying to figure out how much ramen I could buy with $16 and handed me a $20.  It made me cry.  (I'm glad I'm not poor anymore.  But I'll always remember that lady.)

Edit: Thank you everyone for sharing your stories.  I'm glad there are people like this in the world and that so many of us have experienced their kindness.  (And for those of you talking about how much ramen $16 can buy, let the record show I was probably buying other necessities like tampons or flour or something.) Its amazing how much $20 is worth when you don't have $20. It's amazing how far you can stretch that $20, when it's all you have.

Source: have been that poor in the not-too-distant past. So true.  
  
Source: am that poor now. Oh man. That hits home. Right after I had my kid there was a mother in line at the store with a small pack of diapers and some formula.  Turns out the diapers weren't on sale so she didn't have enough money for both. She and her son were wearing really old clothes from the thrift store and I'll never forget the desperate and heartbroken look on her face when she told the cashier she couldn't afford the diapers. I paid for them and gave her the cash from my wallet. I wish I could have done more but we were pretty broke at the time too.  My house burnt down when I was about 5 years old, twenty five years ago. We lived in the Oregon wilderness. We were already very poor and I don't know if we had fire insurance. Essentially my family had nothing but a van, the clothes we were wearing, and about $80 or so in the bank. We drove down into Portland to stay at a church for a couple days while we figured out what to do. We went to a grocery store one day to get some food. My parents were in the checkout line with 4 loaves of bread and two cans of peanut butter and the checker saw me and my siblings looking with hungry eyes at all the food and candy around us. Somehow they got talking about our situation and the checker lady called her boss down. He got on the loudspeaker and said they were doing an impromptu fundraiser to help us out. Random shoppers raised about $1200 in an hour or so. The manager also gave us $200 worth of groceries for free. My parents were blown away. It got us into a two bedroom apartment and without that help, who knows where we would be. I honestly think us kids would have gone into foster care and my dad (who despite our turn of luck, dealt with years of depression and other psych issues) would have probably killed himself. This act of kindness shown to us has permanently implanted a desire in me to help those who need it. That is so sweet. We have been there. A woman once bought my daughter's Tylenol. She was about 2 years old, running a fever... I had $10 in my bank account, but they didn't accept my card (the bank had put a hold on it, my husband was in bootcamp and I had switched states bc I was staying with my brother at the time). I was in tears and had no idea why my card wasn't working.

All she asked me to do was pay it forward. And we have :,) Louis CK made a joke a bout this, but it just happened to me this month.  https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=J0rSXjVuJVg

I had $18 in my bank account (PNC Bank checking account) after paying $600 rent, $150 college loans, $150 car loan, $50 cable, and $25 credit card (minumum payment, balance is near $1,000.  "luckily" Chase upped my credit limit to $2,000)

I paid all these bills on January 1st, and January 2nd I was charged $10 for not having $500, so I now have $8 and I've only eaten one meal a day, at work.  At least I work in fast food and can eat pretty easily at my job.

 Micro-loans Those who need them the most get screwed the worst by the high interest rates. It's a vicious cycle that people need to be warned about. It costs a lot to be poor. Great question.

Im poor right now and have a 3 year old daughter and a loving wife. I try to stay as frugal as possible and my wife is even better.

Twice a week she goes to the food pantry to get a whole bunch of stuff, anything we dont use we re-donate. After coming back she'll spend around $30-40 on vegetables and meats per week. And she can make it last, she grew up in Mexico with very little money and always had to feed 5-6 people on $30&gt; a week. Best enchiladas I've ever had. I have a friend who while growing up, a treat was him and his sister sharing one slice of pizza. This is in NYC When I was growing up, my monthly treat was Burger King.

Yep.

We normally ate Mac n Cheese, Spaghetti Os, just spaghetti... lots of pasta. My dad would get a bag of Reeses miniature peanut butter cups after his monthly paycheck and he'd eat one a night and the bag would last the month.

For his birthday, he wanted a cherry pie instead of a cake. Mom saved up for the pie filling. Yeah. She SAVED for what was probably a $2 can of pie filling. Anyway, she bought enough for two pies and when I was helping her, legitimately, I accidentally dropped one of the pies. Splat. We didn't have the money to make another one. Man, I learned that day that when the money's gone, the money's gone.

Thank god we didn't stay that poor. That was horrible.

EDIT: Thanks for the gold, Wealthy Redditor! I will use it to treat myself to Burger King! When I was a kid a friends mom drove me home one night and the house was dark so she thought my parents weren't there. We'd just had out electricity shut off. My sister and I missed the bus once in primary school. It was a long walk home, but we could do it, and we had just had the phone cut off, so we knew we couldn't even call Mum to pick us up. I, being 9 at the time, didn't realise a teacher had witnessed us miss the bus; and made us walk with her to the office to call my mum. They wouldn't believe me that the phone was cut, made us wait around while they found the number, and then believed me... So they asked me if we were friends with any of our neighbours and if I know their last names... and yeah, so they ended up finding their phone number in the fucking phone book, and calling them to tell them that our phone had been cut off, we had missed the bus, and  that they required them to go inform my mother. I felt so ashamed, and the idea of how embarrassed my mum was, broke my heart. 

These days I'm just glad there was enough fuel in the car for her to get us from school and home again. Having worked in a dollar store

1: dollar store steaks. Seriously steaks for 1 dollar, if that doesn't sound sketchy I don't know what does
2:this is also a Hispanic thing I noticed. Fabulouso. That stuff cleans everything, I had no clue what it was til I grabbed a busted bottle to clean the bathroom one day.
3:you get real used to pasta and rice also. They are cheap and can be bought in bunches.
4:every buy 2 sandwiches from subway cause a 3rd is free. Coupons like this go a long way

My last thing I noticed and this is pretty bad, the dollar stores toilet paper is seriously better then the toilet paper my mom buys. Fabulouso is definitely a Hispanic thing; Target only sells all its varieties in markets with a large Hispanic population. I don't have an answer to your question OP, but I no longer feel that I am having serious money problems after reading some of the comments you have generated through this post. In fact, I feel like a lot of reddit would hate me after hearing what I thought my problems were. It really is very humbling to see all of this.  Wash plasticware (spoons, forks, knifes.) I'm no longer poor and I still do this. It's obscene how much stuff we throw away. Yep, some of them are pretty high quality.  Not poor. I wash and re-use zip-lock bags.  Maybe not *insanely* poor, but I didn't see a lot of rich guys picking up those converter boxes when TV changed from analog to digital. I know people who genuinely don't believe free over-the-air antenna TVs are still in use. I own one (don't watch tv enough to justify cable) and have gotten ".....those still work?" more than once.

Edit since apparently this is generating a lot of attention, here's some facts:

* Rabbit ears and other antennas still work! TVs with analog-only hardware do not. You can buy adaptor boxes to fix that. Any TV newer than the mid 2000s will already have the ability to handle digital over-the-air broadcasts.
* Just plug it into the back of your TV, into the coax port. Yes, it is possible to plug an absolute hackjob of literally aluminum foil into your HDTV... but you may want to buy a proper antenna (or get a roof one if you're far from big cities where broadcasts originate). I spent maybe $40 on an indoor antenna that piggybacks off the TV's USB port to boost the signal.
* You're going to probably only get PBS/CBS/ABC/FOX... the large affiliate stations. But $0, so.
* Picture quality can be **BETTER** than cable and satellite. That's right, better. Assuming whatever's being broadcast was quality in the first place, you can watch tv shows in digital 1080i/720p with less compression than cable/sat need to use.
* There is no snow, crackle, or other bad TV effects. It looks great or it doesn't work at all. I am the same way. I have the antenna for sports, specifically the NFL. I would rather pay for Netflix etc and use the box for local stations, thus avoiding paying Comcast/DirecTV any money.  TIL I'm not poor. Seconded. I never realized how lucky I am. My parents grew up in poverty and now I realize just how good of a job they did to make sure I never knew what it is. Sacrificing my plate of food to feed my little brother and 3 little sisters whilst my mom gave up her food, as did I. I was 10. All while my obese abusive stepdad ate steak and Brussels sprouts, lest mom got beat. Luckily, he is dead, moms somewhat stable, and I'm 17. Saving up money right now, but that's one thing I fear being. I don't want to be hungry or unable to provide. I just remember telling my mom that I'm hungry, her breaking down and crying. Luckily, I had a best friend that I used to go to and bring leftovers from across the street back over.  Back when my Dad had just left us (he's not a deadbeat or anything, they just separated) my mom and I fell on harder times than usual. We went from a house with 5 kids and 2 parents to a tiny duplex for just her and I. I remember we would go to the dollar tree and every now and I then I'd be able to get a toy. Do you guys remember the little "for boy" and "for girl" bags they had? It was like 5 toys for the price of one. That was like winning the lottery man. I was so happy with those things and my mom would get them for me just to see me smile. However soon after we sort of pulled out of the worst bit, but we had a few little dips here and there. Food was never an issue but we had cable turned off sometimes and things like that. I remember one day my mom came home and said she had a surprise for me. My child self had the audacity to ask "Is it from the dollar tree?" With a condescending tone. To this day I have no clue why I asked that because I felt immediately shitty once her face had that look of embarrassment. I am 18 now and was about 12 then. I've since said sorry and she had no clue why I cried saying it. People...take what your parents give you and thank them for every little gift. They love it and they might not have the money but they're sure as hell going to find a way to give you the world the best way that they can.  quarter water, loosies &gt; quarter water

That colored sugar water crap. Explain quarter water please. Shitty premade Koolaid

Sold in small individual bottles. The one with the foil cover? Is that still around?   yep HUGS is what we used to get Sugar, water, purple! i want that purple stuff MD 20/20 Theres a fond place in my heart for the ol' Mad Dog Banana Red You know what Mad Dog spelled backwards is right?  Poor people buy money. Payday loans, prepaid credit cards, cheque cashing, rent to own furniture and pawn shops.  My father and sister and I would spend all Sunday picking up cans to be recycled at the lake. So while all the other families were enjoying their cookout, we would scavenge through garbage cans. We did this because our father would take us to Mcdonalds afterwards. So after a whole day we would trade the aluminum in for a few bucks. My father would order a Big Mac (back when it was a dollar) and a small coffee. My sister and I would share the burger, she getting the part with 2 pieces of bun because she was older and I ate the solo. My father sat there and had multiple refills on his coffee. We spent many Sundays like that. For the longest time, we would make cheap ass crockpot meals and eat off that for a week. 

We would take our extra money (Us kids did side jobs and stuff) and buy all kinds of meats and potatos/vegetables and just mix it all up to make a badass crockpot meal. We'd do three at a time and it would last us 7 days.  Going to a store or public building for air conditioning.  Steel reserve.  Grew up poor here, here are some things I noticed:
Growing up we were never allowed to buy "individual servings" of things. I still feel guilty every time I buy my toddler individually packaged yogurts, cheese strings, etc. 
Fruit, buying fruit was a special occasion. 
Underwear and socks at the thrift store I don't think my parents bought these but a lot of my lower income clients buy them. I used to think wow who buys underwear at a thrift store yup some people dont really have any other choice. 
At least for latinos tortillas, sometimes you wouldn't even have anything to put on them but you could butter on them or salt and just eat them like that to fill up your stomach. 
Formula, I once saw my neighbor feed her infant child with rice water beacuse they couldn't afford formula. 
Bulk beans. I leave in utah and my brother in law recently bought 10 gallon drum of dry beans from the mormon community store. He's not even poor he just said he saw it, remembered his mom used to buy those growing up and then couldn't resist. 
Dollar store toys. Our christmas was always dollar store growing up. If you haven't ever seem those toys they are the cheapest of the cheap. Fake barbies that reek of overprocessed plastic and break after a week. 
 I know this is not ethical, but when I was just starting out (after college) and I had a job that barely covered my rent and loan payment I would frequent local hotels that offered "free continental breakfast" to their guests. I was NEVER questioned as to whether I was a guest in the hotel; although, I did get a few strange looks from time-to-time...I would eat my fill of Belgian Waffles and donuts, stash a few muffins in my pocket for lunch and then I would just have Ramen for dinner...It really sucked being poor during that period...Even though, I'm back to middle-class now, I still get the urge to go into one of those hotels and grab a DIY Belgian waffle...yum!!! I got laid off in London at the height of the Global Financial Crisis 5 years ago, and being a New Zealander I was on a Visa that didn't allow me access to any sort of social support. Luckily I was living a fairly cheap flat in East London with 3 others despite my income prior to getting laid off being sufficient that I could've been living somewhere much nicer. I had a little bit saved up so wasn't too worried initially but after the first 2 months of having no prospects whatsoever I realised that if I wanted to stay in London (which I really did) I'd have to seriously tighten my belt and broaden my job search from the field I was working in to basically anything.

I worked out I probably had a month and a half worth of money left, I was paying 100 a week in rent all inclusive and was usually spending about 50 a week on food which I knew I would have to reduce drastically, and cut out all luxuries like alcohol. Unfortunately my expanded job search wasn't going anywhere as shops, pubs, and restaurants were inundated with 10+ people like me per day looking for work and when they were hiring tended towards those who actually worked those sort of jobs already rather than down on their luck office workers who would leave the second they found something better.

I had a boon when I remembered there was a huge bag of frozen sausages in the freezer that had been there since before I had moved in 6 months earlier. As a result I was able to cut my food bill to less than 15 per week living off a sausage and half a sweet potato and parsnip (between them great nutritional content) for dinner, and unflavoured noodles for lunch - years of running late for work had taught me to live without breakfast already. My one treat was tea, I used to have it with milk and sugar but I reverted to plain with neither until one of my housemates said I could help myself to her milk and sugar.

I managed to hang on for two months living like that (when my sausages ran out it got harder) but go the point where I had enough money left for 2 more weeks or a flight home so I packed my bags and reluctantly left. The thing was despite being the poorest I'd ever been  was actually having a good time, my housemates were 3 of the most wonderful people I've ever known. When I was working  we'd all go out together or just drink at home on the weekends, they were a French girl, a Spanish girl, and an American guy so always had friends from back home coming to visit that we would take to do touristy things. When I stopped being able to do all that they realised I was struggling financially they'd buy me drinks or shout me to the pub knowing full well I might run out of money and have to leave without having the chance to return the favour. It was also summer and amazingly for London actually hot and sunny so we would often just go to the park, the American  guy even offered to shout me to a day at Wimbledon but I just couldn't accept it. The French girl worked in cafe and would bring home unsold pastries for me when she could as well, I knew why she was doing it but she was too nice to mention she knew I was struggling and would say it was for everyone but the other two would always leave them for me.

One thing that will stay with me forever is I played soccer once a week with a bunch of guys I'd met and we'd always go to the pub afterwards and then I'd get the tub home with a guy who lived nearby. When I realised I had to tighten my belt I'd walk an hour and a half to get there as it meant it was a free activity which was obviously great, then I would make my excuses why I couldn't go the pub and walk home. One day the lad who lived nearby had to get home straight afterwards so said he'd get the tube back with me to my horror. We got to the tube station and I made up a story about losing my wallet and needing to go back to look for it so he should just go on without me, unfortunately it was a visible bulge in shorts pocket and he pointed it out. 

I painfully paid my fare (wondering what I would have to sacrifice for the 3 trip) and got on the tube with him but he knew I had been out of work for a while and started putting it all together. He asked how bad I was struggling and I told him some of it but he must've known it was far worse than I was letting on. Next week after the game he dragged me along to the pub saying he'd cover me which I was grateful for but dreading what would happen when it was my turn to buy a round even if he was going to cover it. To my surprise when got there he slipped me a tenner so I could buy my round without public embarrassment. He shouted me home on the tube and basically said that was how it was going to be until I found a job ad he didn't mind at all because he'd been similarly poor myself. Despite not finding a job and having to leave he visited me in New Zealand a few years later and I was able to repay his kindness. 

Tiny gesture but it still makes me feel warm inside when I think about it, I've been poor in the past or had times where I've made sacrifices when I need to save money urgently for something, but at least had an income so had a point every week/fortnight/month where everything would be relieved even if just for a day or two. Not having any sort of income for 4 months in one of the most expensive cities in the world has given me an understanding of the sort of things people stuck in real poverty go through only they can't just fly home to a support network or have friends shout them out for a bit of fun. Many poor people buy a lot of eggs.   Eggs are one of the cheapest and best tasting sources of protein; enough for 6 meals costs less than $2.

   Many poorer people around where I live eat a lot of venison.   If you have the time to go stand in the woods during deer season, you can get yourself 70 or 80 lbs of meat really cheaply, especially if you do your own butchering.   My wife won't eat venison; when she was young and poor and first starting out years ago that was the only meat they had to feed the family for several years and she doesn't ever want to see it again. If you don't have a job - even if you have money in the bank - utilities will do their best to deny you service.

Once, when I was in between jobs, I moved (to a cheaper apartment) and was calling to switch the power over. The woman on the other end, when I said I was currently without a job, paused, and then said "oh...you mean you're self-employed?" - and then explained that were I actually unemployed, she would not be able to turn on my power. Of course, I agreed with her assessment of my situation. I live a few blocks away from one of the East Coast's biggest heroine corners (philadelphia) and yes. I'm insanely poor. and what people like me buy? nothing. we scrape every pennie we can imagine to just survive and pay bills and keep the man from knockin on the door to turn the heat off in the winter or electric off in the summer. Food expenses and bills are our main priorities. If even remotely lucky to have any spending money toward the end of the month, it goes to what we can afford. cheap everything. the dollar store is second home to most of us and when the crack heads steal packaged meats or tobacco products and sell them for half price, we jump on that fast because there's hundreds of thousands in the same position wanting the same thing. and that's get head above water. People say things like "get a better job, go to school" which is very comical and EASY to say to someone when you have had the time to get your priorities straight. truth is, most of us got forced here just from being born here. its the same story with almost everyone I know. Had to drop out of school at 15 to get a job or get money up to help out with the house. ^ that right there takes up 80% of your time. no time to go to school or really work on a better future. I have been lucky enough to have fallen in love with music at a early age and made instrumentals for all the  rapper dope dealers. and I'm pretty good with what I do. and for doing it for so long, its lead me to places I never thought I would have been. like production credit on a small segment show on MTVJams called "HoodFab". I don't make much. just above the average 175 every 2 weeks from working part time at fast food joints. Its hell to middle class and its looked down upon in upper class. but to me. this is the only life I know. income tax comes around and that money goes on house expenses. Please go easy on me. I know it's hard to really speak to truth without everyone thinking there's trolling going on or whatever tomfoolery that's accused. Truth is, I really wanted to make throwaway but it wouldn't be as genuine as I possibly could because all in all, it may be the life I know and love because I'm so used to it, doesn't make it any less embarrassing. thank you for reading.  I'll go ahead and put my answer.

Cheap meat.

You don't know how bad Spam and Vienna Weenies taste till you have them for breakfast, lunch, afternoon snack, and dinner. I wouldn't want it all the time, but I like spam and vianna sausages. Hawaiians know how to make good spam dishes. Hawaii is the only place I've seen an entire store dedicated to selling nothing but Spam. An insanely large bag of white rice When i was a kid, we were far from poor, but we had a large trash can filled with rice in the pantry. I remember pushing my hand into it was one of the most satisfying sensations.  Until you do that some day and a fuckin rat comes out
 [deleted] I'm not insanely poor. I'm not Asian. I buy insanely large bags of rice. And store brand popcorn. Pop a batch and drink water and pretend you're full. About1/3 of the things you normally buy at your local supermarket can  be found at the dollar store. The problem here is that, while you're paying less in total, you're generally paying more per ounce/gram/ml/oz/etc...

So it's worth it if your cash is low, but not in terms of value for your money. Payday loans. I got a pay day loan once... I had super shitty credit at this point, was desperate for money so I could pay rent and buy food. Somehow I got approved for a loan for $4,200, which I took, stupidly, that would have cost me almost $8,000 to pay off if I paid the minimum. I didn't have a choice since I needed to make rent, buy new tires for my car, registration and smog for my car, and pay back somebody I owed $1,000 to.. It was a bad time. Luckily I was able to get somebody in the family to help me with a co-sign for a debt consolidation loan for me at a very nice low interest rate. Otherwise to this day I would still be living with and paying through the nose for a very bad mistake, but it's hard to use the word "mistake" when talking about something I didn't really have a choice on. 

The point is, NEVER get a pay day loan. Find another way if you can.  Thankfully, I'm not poor and always had help when I was in a pinch...

but my mom and dad - not so much. My dad was one of 9 kids of a sharecropper. Two died from Diptheria (Google it) before he was born. At age 3, he was picking cotton 'till his mother died at age 6. Then they were put in a "home" for poor kids (like an orphanage but half the kids weren't orphans and not up for adoption. There were about 200 kids at the home.)

Before the fortune of ending up in a Home until he was 17, this was his life:

2 bedroom house. Dirt Floors. No water or electricity. He was the youngest boy, so he didn't ever have new shoes until he was in the Home. All hand-me-downs. His mother made clothes from potato sacks. Seriously. Imagine wearing a potato sack in the Texas summer heat, while working in a cotton field at age 4. Blows my mind. All the food was what they killed or grew. He has stories about "Gritty possum".

The year before he ended up in the Home, there was a heavy snowfall (about 2 feet, which was DEEP in Texas at that time. His brother Marc saw some geese fly by and land in the field about 200 yards from the house. Mark was about 14 at the time. That kid grabbed his gun and crawled on his belly through that snow.

They ate goose for dinner (I think it was around Christmas at the time).

The crazy thing is, this seems bizarre to most folks - shit, I'm ONE generation removed from this and it seems crazy - but it happened to my dad. I never EVER forget what kind of mess he started in.

And I will NEVER vote for anyone that wants to hurt welfare, social services, or medical assistance.

{This is my first ever post on Reddit. I read about this on my Facebook wall and had to put in my two cents}
 I just learned this from a teenage burglar a couple years ago.     Baseball caps with a completely straight brim and the sticker still on it were made popular because inner city kids wanted to prove they could afford brand new name brand things.      It's kind of sad that's how some trends start.  

EDIT: I was a burglary detective at the time.  The "kid" was 18 at the time.  He was stealing to buy shoes.  We found over 20 new pairs when we searched his apartment.  Poverty made this person what he was.   I was sad to see it.   He did two years in jail.  Then he got out and started back up again doing the same thing.   Now he's going back. I'm imagining this kid breaking into your house, and you make him a cup of cocoa and ask for his life story. Suet I know a really poor family that buys loads of candles to light their home at night so that they don't have to pay for electricity. It makes me sad. Electricity cost per kWh is way cheaper than candle cost per hour burning, and clearly WAY brighter.


You may want to suggest to them to write down the costs and compare.



Edit: yes guys, no shit the train of thought would be different if they had their power cut or owe fees. But since all I know is what the guy above me said, all I can comment on is comparing costs. I'm sticking with facts, not assumptions, here. Actually, they hide it from everyone because I guess it embarrasses them. Do you have a source for that though?


Edit: The case could also be that the electricity has been cut out for them. I totally forgot this possibility. I'll try to know that tomorrow. I pay 9.6 cents per kWh. That means I can run a 45 watt light bulb and light up a small to medium sized room fairly well for 22 hours and it will cost me a dime. Show me a ten cent candle that can burn for two hours, nevermind 22... and you'd need a couple dozen of them to put out the same amount of light.

Now, a lot of people pay more than I do for electric. But even if you quadruple it, it's still cheaper by a long, long shot... and that's assuming you're running a cheap (but horribly inefficient) incandescent bulb. *"We'll make electricity so cheep, only the rich will use oil for light."*

-Thomas Edison You spelled "I played too much Civ V" wrong Actually that was a quote taken from an hour program on Tesla, with the obligatory Edison bashing.  But just as cliche, I suppose. You're forgetting the $200+ deposit to get electricity turned on... I've never had to pay a deposit to get electricity turned on, having moved a couple times now. That likely varies by location. I had to pay a deposit for every utility when I first opened an account. It may be locational, but electricity providers are about as few as ISPs. $100 for city water, $200 for electricity. Luckily, no deposit for my apartment. Now those deposits were paid back after a year, but still. Depends on the area. Here in Texas a lot of areas are dr-regulated and you can pick from somewhere between 50-100 providers.  This is not always a good thing though.  In the areas with city-run electric (Austin, San Antonio, Garland, Denton, Bryan, College Station, and a few others) its actually cheaper even though there is only one provider.     To be more precise, you can pick between suppliers. Distribution is still always handled by a single local electric utility.  You probably have good credit.  The water, trash, and electric hookups at my house all had deposits but were waived because I have good credit. Me neither, but I think they normally do a credit check. So if you fail that, they probably ask for a deposit. The main cost from your electricity bills doesn't come from using lightbulbs; those costs are almost negligible compared to what it costs to run the air-conditioning, the refrigerator, the washer/dryer, and A/V components, etc. 
Light bulbs don't count for shit on the average bill. Leave the lights on in your whole house for a month and see if you really notice a difference in your bill.  
(There'll be one, but it'll be pocket change.)  &gt; I pay 9.6 cents per kWh. That means I can run a 45 watt light bulb and light up a small to medium sized room fairly well for 22 hours and it will cost me a dime.

ya but you still have a basic monthly charge just to have the service to your house and if they have an outstanding bill(s) then they would need a (large) deposit to turn it back on again. 

 wait, what? On my electric bill there's only the number of kWh consumed plus tax, no monthly charge. I did have to pay $50 to get the power turned on when I moved in, though. Here we have a $29.50 consumer charge. Even if you use no electricity, you pay $30 a month. Reconnect fee is $75 + outstanding balance during business hours. $130+ off hours. That sucks. That's a fixed cost that's not useful when only comparing the cost of lightbulbs vs candles - not no electric supply vs electric, and definitely not applicable everywhere. I only pay delivery and supply charges. [deleted] That's the rate I negotiated for a year, but even if I paid a full dollar per kWh, I'm still way ahead of candles in terms of cost effectiveness. Packs of 20+ tealite candles at the dollar store.  They burn for a few hours each, and stick them on a small plate or saucer, and you've got a mobile light from dusk 'til you go to bed.  Two candles in the winter. Those might be ok for very basic navigation, but they're not useful for much else. Even if you burn all 20 at once, you're still nowhere near the light output of a 45W bulb.  Agreed, but it's not about straight-up efficiency, it's about desperation and what's available immediately.  It might not be as much light, but it's *enough*. Candles can also help during the winter by providing a little extra heat. Nor sure how that plays in though. It's not much heart.  This is like a certain dumb cunt I know that thinks dishwashers use more water than washing dishes in the ink.

How do you get through to these fucking idiots when they ignore facts. They were lied to by their parents as to why they didn't own a dishwasher.  But they own a dishwasher and refuse to use it. Fill sink up with water, wash dishes, you just used less water than the dish washer.  Yeah that's not quite right given the water saving features of today's dishwashers, and the fact that washed things need to be rinsed. You can fill a second basin with clear water and dip the soapy dishes in it. It works just fine. I'm interested to see your facts, I currently hold no facts on this topic so it would be nice to have a few.

Anecdotally though I should think it more effective to say wash 4 plates, 4 cups, 4 sets of silverware, and 4 bowls in the sink rather than a dishwashing machine. My machine can hold something like ~16 bowls, ~40 cups, ~20 plates, and a full drawer of silverware. It is high efficiency but I'm certain it doesn't have sensors that determine the contents.

My reasoning for using a machine though is that regardless of water consumption it frees up my time. I could be spending my time washing the dishes for $0/hr or I could be putting in hours on various freelance projects I do for $30/hr; that definitely compensates for whatever excess water was used. It will always depend on the energy consumption of your dishwasher, but in general, if people wash their dishes frivolously in the sink they will waste plenty more water.

Obviously if you're being completely precarious about water usage the entire time, every time, it may prove better to wash by hand, especially if you're washing fuck all.

Do a google, plenty of info around. Sorry I just figured someone so vehemently opinionated would have real information on hand that they are supposing other people should also have.

I have a friend who is like that about corn, they can argue for hours about it's lack of value due to things like it being an empty grain, blah blah you know. Oh, so you were just being a cunt about it.

Cool. Yep pretty much, but you started it
Edit: I just noticed you have a cool username [deleted] And it's still far, far cheaper than candles. It might not be just for light. Candles also put off a lot of heat if you have a few of them in a smaller room. My electricity is cheap, my heating bill is ridiculous. And if you have subsidized CFL bulbs, they're actually the same price as incandescent right now... 9.6 US cent? thats 8.1 EUR cent.. i pay 24.5 EUR cent in germany - and thats about  an average price.. This might not be country wide, but in Iowa they 'outlawed' incandescent bulbs for normal lights, though I believe they're still legal for novelty or specialty sockets. Now we have to buy halogen, CFL or LED, so that light source cost goes up just a bit.  I have found brown outs kill the cfl electronics. I have been replacing cfl way more frequently than 'promised'. No one takes that cost into account. 
Anyway, it is the hot water and/or aircon that kills the electricity bill.   And you won't burn your house down... Not to mention dangerous. I know of at least one fatal fire, locally, resulting from burning candles.  A CFL bulb (the twirly kind) costs about $5 and is 14W (for a 60W bulb equivalent amount of light). [The average cost for electricity is 12.6c/kwH](http://o.canada.com/business/markets/interactive-map-the-cost-of-electricity-city-by-city), so 1kW of power costs 12.6 cents. A CFL bulb running for 24 hours a day will have used 336W of power, which costs 4.6 cents.

If you only use the bulb in the evening, lets say 6 hours a day (6pm-12pm), a bulb will cost 1.15c/day.

I don't know what their candles cost, but if they're spending more than 1.15c/day per candle they should switch to CFL bulbs. Stuff like this is why being poor is EXPENSIVE.

LED bulbs are pricey, but they last and are extremely energy efficient.

Good clothes don't wear out so fast, but cost more to buy. Or you can buy cheap crappy clothes and keep repairing them when they wear out. Best bet there is the thrift shop.

It's worse in health care, when you're poor you put off preventative care because you can't afford it, which makes it far more likely that you'll get nailed in the end by catastrophic care costs. It's like saying you can't afford an oil change, then having your car totaled at 40k miles when the engine dies on you. Cue the boot story.  [Here's](https://www.goodreads.com/quotes/72745-the-reason-that-the-rich-were-so-rich-vimes-reasoned) a link to said boot story.

The reason that the rich were so rich, Vimes reasoned, was because they managed to spend less money.


Take boots, for example. He earned thirty-eight dollars a month plus allowances. A really good pair of leather boots cost fifty dollars. But an affordable pair of boots, which were sort of OK for a season or two and then leaked like hell when the cardboard gave out, cost about ten dollars. Those were the kind of boots Vimes always bought, and wore until the soles were so thin that he could tell where he was in Ankh-Morpork on a foggy night by the feel of the cobbles.


But the thing was that good boots lasted for years and years. A man who could afford fifty dollars had a pair of boots that'd still be keeping his feet dry in ten years' time, while the poor man who could only afford cheap boots would have spent a hundred dollars on boots in the same time and would still have wet feet.


This was the Captain Samuel Vimes 'Boots' theory of socioeconomic unfairness.  Terry Pratchett -- literally a genius. Literally a literary genius. if you want a better read about the whole subject check out Orson Wells the road to wigan pier. Its an autobiography about the poor working class in 1937 where Orson spent time with families of the day and recorded the parallels from the working poor to the middle class.  One of my favorite passages in that book is the one where he talks about chocolate and why you shouldn't criticize the poor for buying anything other than what they absolutely need in order to survive. *George Orwell Thank you. Pratchett++ I see this quote at least once a week on reddit Yes, this is what precisely came to mind. Many electric companies have "energy conservation kits", mine came with 6 or so 13 watt bulbs, and a few night lights. Omg 5 dollars!  Better buy 20 bucks of candles a month instead. D'oh! My family isn't even poor and we still went to thrifts/consignment stores. You can find some real nice shit at those places. Designer jeans are actually really common. I've owned a few pairs of Lucky Brand jeans that came from thrift stores. Probably because cheap jeans fall apart and aren't worth donating when you find them in a deceased relatives closet, or your own when spring cleaning. Good point. Whatever the reason, I'm not complaining. I've gotten some damn expensive jeans for dirt cheap. All my shirts are 4 USD t-shirts from Wal-Mart.

And I am NOT from the US... It is even paying someone to buy that shit for me on the US is cheaper than buying local clothing in Brazil.

Also all my shirts right now are very, very old when compared to their quality (ie: around 3 or more years old, with their tint fading, stamps cracking, cloth stretched...)

But... it is what I can afford. A 60w LED bulb(7-10w actual wattage) is $5 at Lowe's and Home Depot now and will basically last forever.  I bought some of these fancy new bulbs when I moved to Michigan in 2007. Took the extras with me in 2009 when I moved to Oregon. Brought the last few with me to DC back in 2013 and I still have two of them in a closet, waiting for another bulb to go. The things last so long I freaked out a little the first time one burned out on me. "Good clothes don't wear out as fast." I'm curious where you buy "good clothes"? It seems to me that expensive clothes are just the same cheap pieces of crap with some design and tailoring marked up 3000%. I'd rather buy cheap crap or thrift store clothes. What are "good clothes" and how much do they cost? I can buy a $5 shirt that will last me a good year or two at Wal-Mart or the thrift shop. I can buy jeans that will last me about the same for $10 or $20. Can I buy jeans that will last me 50 years for $200? Are there some clothing items (shoes maybe?) where more money will last you much longer? Here is an example. I have a pair of Mountain Hardwear pants that cost me 90 dollars. I have put hundreds of hours of wear on them in the brutal outdoor conditions in the past five years and they are just starting to show signs of wear. I will easily be able to get another 3-4 years out of them. They did say "good clothes" not "expensive" clothes, or "fancy/popular clothes.  
Because you are right that most of what sells as popular/expensive clothes in today's market is just cheap crap with "trendy" style and fancy a label. And it's quality is only about good enough to last for as long as it's "trendiness" does(i.e: not long).

BUT even today, there are definitely still brands of high quality clothes out there that cost much more then the average cheap walmart items, but will definitely last much longer and give better performance, so if you can afford the initial investment, they are totally worth it.  
This is a difference that tends to be easiest to find in items like boots/coats and for work or athletic clothes (items that see heavy use &amp; abuse).  
Just a random example that comes to mind(because I just recently bought another pair) are "ExOfficio give-n-go boxers". These cost more then average underwear, and most my life I've just gone for the cheap package of *4 pairs* of any old brand, that cost the same price as *one* *pair* of ExOfficio. But once I actually went for it and tried the more expensive ExOfficio, I realized how worth it they are. That one pair will out last 2 packages of the cheap ones, they are more comfortable, durable, and have nice performance like breath-ability/moisture wicking/fast drying (these things come out of the washer practically already dry).  
Check out the /r/BuyItForLife sub for more items that fit this theme, they almost always cost much more, but if you get a real quality item it definitely saves in the long run.  
But of course that brings us back to the point of why it costs so much to be poor, it's freaking HARD to afford the good shit when you're poor, so you end up spending more in the long run because "I can't just go barefoot for 6 months while I save up for a pair of shoes that'll last me 10 years, so it's back to walmart I go!" Good clothes doesn't mean designer clothes. Dickies last longer, in my experience, than the knock off brand I can get at the Flea Market. Good work boots definitely last longer than the Walmart version.  A compact fluorescent bulb literally costs like 3 dollars though, so this really isn't a good example of it being expensive to be poor. It is still a good example if the issue was that they couldn't afford electricity.  Yea most of that post is bullshit. Cheap clothes can last a long time. Most of my wardrobe is non-brand shit I buy on sale for cheap, and everything last about 10 years. Electricity is cheap as hell for lighting regardless of what kind of bulb you buy. Hence the importance of the Affordable Care Act. If the U.S. taxpayers are going to ultimately foot the bill for healthcare for our poor, then we're much better off to foot the bill for preventative care so we can avoid paying for catastrophic care.  even regular light bulbs are better than candles.... It pays to research the products. I've got an LED light globe that went darker and darker until after 6 months of use it was equivalent to a 15w globe (from 60w equivalency), too dark to use and at the time it cost $30 while the more expensive better ones were $60. 

With clothes you can get decent quality without buying the very best brands but don't expect a $6 Kmart T shirt to last as long as a $30 target T shirt or $50 Adidas brand. Bring so stupid you use candles instead of cfls has nothing to do with being poor is expensive. 

It means youre a fucktard and probably why you are poor.  I know reddit says poor people aren't necessarily poor because they're lazy, and I don't disagree, but reading this thread I'm starting to think it's because they're fucking stupid. Jesus...where the hell do you buy your CFL's at? I run 60W Daylights in my house and got 16 for $17. Other than that I'm onboard with you. I believe an incandescent may even be better than candles.  Many Dollar Tree locations have 4 packs of 60W equivalent CFL bulbs. Good stuff. Home Depot. Philips CFL's. LED's are what CFL's were 10(?) years ago. New and shiny. You'd be hard pressed to find an LED bulb under $5.  Forget cfl, even a 100W bulb would be cheaper. It's just these people are bad at understanding their situation, and end up making it worse for themselves. This is great to know. They are old people, so I guess they are stuck on their own way of thinking. But I'll try to let them know somehow. Thank you! Talk to the power and gas company too. Depending on company and region/laws, they'll lower prices based on things like income. When I was a student (and not even that broke for a student) they knocked off a huge chunk of our power bill.
 

It could also be that theyve been disconnected previously and cant afford the reconnection fee :(

 The local electric company might have a lower your bill program; we got 4 twirly bulbs for free.  Candles don't come with a monthly fee.  Just a minor issue, 6pm-12pm is 18 hours. Midnight is 12am.  &gt; A CFL bulb running for 24 hours a day will have used 336Wh of power, which costs 4.6 cents.

FTFY My favourite CFL bulb is the Roughriders one You can buy a CFL at Walmart for $1 equivalent to 40, 60, or 100W incandescent and I just bought a 9W Phillips LED bulb equivalent to 60W incandescent for $2.76. Just make sure you get "soft-white" because "daylight" looks like the inside of a morgue or something. &gt;Just make sure you get "soft-white" because "daylight" looks like the inside of a morgue or something.

I only use Daylight (5500K+) bulbs.

The problem is that you shouldn't ever buy dim ones. Go with 75W equivalents or higher.

Daylight CFLs are the most natural ones to mimic daytime light, but the problem is that they **can not be used dim**. The human eye perceives high color temperatures at low brightnesses as a sickly blue. If you want softer, dimmer, or dimmable lighting, you need a warmer, lower color temperature.

At daylight (Like, noon outside) brightnesses, they're the way to go.

I'd never use a Daylight bulb in, say, a table lamp that might be running in a room when the overhead lighting is off (Because they look awful when dim). But for every light in the kitchen that's always on? Stuff 100W equivalent 5500/6000K bulbs in there. No better option. You have to be careful on the CFLs; if you get a cheap one, it probably won't last any longer than the regular bulbs, and they wear out waaaaay quicker if you turn them off and on quite a bit.  Also, if your power company has any wonky issues, or you have shitty wiring, that'll shorten the life, too. Actually, I bought a pack of 4 CFLs from Lowes two days ago for $5.78. Obviously, there were more brands, but the bulbs have gotten considerably cheaper depending on where you buy from. holy shit 12.6 cents? I'm paying around a third of that I've seen CFL bulbs sell in packs of 2 for $1, some kind of government subsidized thing, or something. I splurged, and got about a dozen packs of them. Came in handy when my daughter moved into a rental house that had mostly empty light sockets. Dollar Tree has those in 4 packs in most places now. I bought some when I was living in my last apartment and they were great. I didn't take them with since they were dirt cheap, and I am not the level of poor that takes the bulbs when moving anymore (at least not when they are 4 for $1). Not trying to cause problems, just trying to shed some light on the situation. Pun very, very much intended. :D

This might be more widespread, but at least in my area in IL, Ameren-Cilco is subsidizing the purchase of CFL bulbs. They're claiming they want to reduce the demand on the grid &amp; be more "eco-conscious". CFL bulbs that aren't fancy or classy in any way can be bought for $1 or less per.

*Now, why this "eco-conscious" company subsidizes the purchase of CFL bulbs that last anywhere from 3 months to 7 years &amp; not the purchase of LED bulbs that contain no mercury, are cheaper to run, and (supposedly) last 20 years, I have absolutely noooooo idea.* :P A 60w LED bulb(7-10w actual wattage) is $5 at Lowe's and Home Depot now and will basically last forever.  Actually, the price on CFL bulbs is really cheap right now, at least in my area. There's a subsidy from the power company so they're down to 88 cents a piece! Candles also heat your house a little. You may think I'm being facetious, but if you light 5 candles and put them on a table and leave them for a little while, they'll generate a fair bit of heat on them. I know because we're going through a really cold winter, and even with our heating on full blast, living in a place that is over a hundred years old isn't going to be as insulated as you'd like. Candles make a difference, as do thermal curtains etc. (also, I'm in no way saying that I'm poor, it's just a way we've found to cope with the cold, our lease isn't up until March and we didn't know how cold it was here since we signed the lease last April.)  So, 35 cents a month to run the bulb, plus $15 in fees and taxes. I'm not sure what utilities are like where these folks are living - but the electric company here has a minimum threshold for providing service. 

Source: I lived in a bachelor apartment, my monthly usage charges totalled around $6 - $8 per month, but the utility charged a base rate (not calculate by usage) of $19 beforehand. And a smattering of service/government fees too.

Making my bi-monthly bill around $50 bones instead of the $12 - $16 dollars I had in kwh used. &gt; 336W of power

336 W/h of energy. Protip: When you are correcting someone else, you might want to check if you yourself are indeed correct.


&gt;&gt;336W of power

&gt;336 W/h of energy.

336 Wh
 Right. Unfortunately I don't remember the place where I first read how the cost to produce light has dropped significantly due to the cost of modern lighting vs. wax candles, but regardless, it's basic math.


Google says the average US cost is 12 cents per kWh, the average bulb is 60W.  Divide 1k by 60 and you get 16.7 hours of room-filling light for 12 cents (0.7 cents per hour).  Now, I googled cheap candle and found a 20-hour candle for $1.49...That works out to 7.5 cents an hour, *if they're only using one candle per room.*  They're literally paying 10 times more money for 10 times less light. And that's why they're poor, in part. Seriously. It's all the hundreds of little mathematical errors, lack of understanding of the big picture that keep people poor. Relevant username. Indeed my good man, as is yours. Or they've had their electricity cut, and don't have a choice.  If they need light that badly buy them gallon jug water bottles &amp; get those little stick anywhere lights &amp; have them stick the light under the jug. provides a lot of extra light If they have an electrical code violation, the electric utility may have put a lock on the meter until it gets brought up to code.  A lot of older mobile homes fall into this category.  I think it was mid 70's when they started requiring the manufacturers to use the same electrical code as site built homes.  

I have been in the situation where electric is shut off until I pay a large past due balance.  Candles are expensive and a fire hazard.  An LED flashlight or a rechargeable flashlight is the way to go if you find yourself in that situation.  I took the rechargeable flashlight to work with me every day and plugged it in at my desk.   Also oil lamps. Cheaper and better than candles. Been there. ; ( They probably have bad credit or outstanding balance and had power cut for lack of payment Yeah, it's probably the second reason.  I know they usually wait like 2-3mo of no payment before they cut the power.  By then they could have racked up $200+ in electric bills they would have to pay, plus fees just to get the power turned back on again.  So realistically, getting the power back on isn't an option, even if it is theoretically more efficient. Have them check the dollar store for CFL bulbs. Most companies will charge a base line fee for their service though. I dunno how that factors in. I live in a studio and the basic fee is 20 bucks. I usually end up paying 10-15 dollars more for kWh usage. Everything in my apartment is electric. So I guess that's pretty good.  &gt; I'll try to know that tomorrow.

"did your electricity get cut off or can you just not afford to open up an electricity account?  I need to know, for Reddit." I work for an electric co-op and electricity is about 7 per kWh on our system. I can go back and look at people's usage and a small house can use like 15-20 kWh a day or even less if they're careful. Larger houses can use 100+ kWh daily. When we have people that routinely miss payments we put an SD, or service disconnect, meter on their service so we can toggle their power off and on from the office. Then they can pre pay for their electricity. They can add money to their accounts daily, weekly, whatever they want to do. We have a lot of people pay a couple of dollars at a time because money is tight. To me it would be better than candles.  Their electricity was probably shut off and the parents told the kids/neighbors that the candles were a preemptive rather than reactive measure. When you're poor, the solution that is cheaper in the long run is sometimes unaffordable.  Making numbers up to demonstrate:  it might cost $30/month to heat my house, or $3 for enough candles for a day.  Well, I don't have $30, but I have enough to get some candles some days. That simply does not apply in this case.

You pay your electricity bill all at once, and after the fact. If you can spend $3/day on candles, you could sit that aside, use electricity, and then use the $90 you saved at the end of the month to pay your bill.

The problem is obviously that they have made some bad estimations about the cost of electricity. They assume that they are saving enough to make the candles worth it, but they are not. They are, in fact losing money.

Your logic works for many thing, but not this. Using a more expensive, less efficient method of lighting, when you have an already paid for less expensive option available; is never the right choice. It is not a trap that the poor fall into. There is no catch. They paid to have electricity available, and are choosing instead to use a more expensive alternative. I don't disagree.  Although activation fees, deactivation fees, and suddenly having $90 around and having stuff that needs to be paid is all part of the reality of being poor, too. That's all true. But these people apparently already have their power turned on; it never went off, they just stopped using it at night because they thought they had found a cheaper way to light their home.

If you want to save a bunch of money over the month so you have extra money at the end to pay bills, then you should not be buying candles throughout the month. In fact, only having to pay for your lighting use once at the end of the month is much more convenient.

Your points are all valid, but they really don't apply here. I'd say that someone needs to run the math for this family and let them know they can stop buying candles; but, I'll bet they get their candles pretty cheap in-bulk. And so long as they do not just let them burn through the night, they are probably only losing a dollar, or so, per month. And, who knows, maybe they just enjoy using candles. Though, they would be considerably more dangerous than just using a light-bulb. Those few dollars lost would climb to thousands if something caught fire. That's not realistic though. I understand that choice/dilemma when it comes to stuff like furniture, because in those cases you literally don't have the money to make the purchase.  but these are short term purchases where you can literally just put away 1/10 of what you're spending and pay the bill at the end of the month.  This specific situation has less to do with being poor and more to do with being misinformed/shortsighted.  The difference here is *they allay have the money to afford the cheaper option.* You can get so backed up on your debt to utility companies, though. The price to turn it back on plus the back charges plus the actual price per kWh might be the factor that's keeping them buying candles That's true, but the guy I responded to didn't say anything about having NO electricity, just that they chose candles to keep the lights off.


So the way I figure it, instead of buying candles, they can turn on the lights and put the candle money (that they must already have, since they're using it to buy candles) off to the side to pay the electric bill with.  That way, after they pay their bill, they'll still have money left over, which they need. Hm. Yeah, you're right. The only way this works out to their  economic advantage is if they're making candles out of human fat obtained illicitly. Yes, but if they are out of money, they can just not buy candles.  Having your electricity shut off and paying for the re-connect can be a lot, and it's hard to know how much you're paying at any given time for utilities.  I can see why someone would do it this way, but it's sad that they have to. ...but if they're poor and don't have much money to begin with...wouldn't the better step be making choices to help them spend less *before* they're in a situation where they run out of money? Because if they run out of money and don't buy candles, their electricity will *still* go unpaid and get shut off (since that powers more than just lights).


I guess my point is, you said it's sad that they have to. But they don't have to at all. They're making the wrong, more expensive decision. period. &gt;We will make electricity so cheap that only the rich will burn candles.

Thomas Edison, Dec 31st 1879 classic poor people being dumb with money I don't know the numbers but isn't it possible it's easier to use less total light with the candles? Unless they have dimmers on their house lights, it may be difficult to cut the costs any other way. Well the problem is that less total light does not mean less cost. Grid electricity has both brighter light and is cheaper, unless you're literally leaving all your lights on all day. Candles just don't make financial sense no matter what you do im just gonna assume that MAYBE they have not paid their electric bill and dont have the funds to pay the hundreds of dollars that they owe. Sure you save a few pennies but good luck summoning Baphomet with an electric bulb.
 The cost per hour is probably not the issue.  The issue is probably that they've defaulted on power payments before and the power company wants a deposit or is simply unwilling to give them an account.

It's like the commonly cited example of the boot were a poor person buys shitty boots every year because they break whereas a richer person can buy one really good pair of boots that lasts for years.  In the long run the poor person pays more, but that's the only option open to them.  Candles do produce heat though...if said family is in a colder climate. Not to mention safer/lower risk! If you stay to one room and hang blankets on outside walls, heavy drapes on the windows etc. it also heats your house very well.  Something you have to keep in mind is that there are usually fees outside of usage that may make I less feasible. I haven't done the math, but I do recall seeing a baseline charge on top of the usage charge. They may not be able to pay the minimum amount to turn the power back on, assuming it's already been shut off. Sure, they'll save money by not buying a bunch of $1 candles every day, but saving money for the bill means they won't have those candles to use at night. Not here in Ontario. I know someone that doesn't like paying much on his electric bill, so he tries to save money by buying D cell alkaline batteries to power his portable fan instead of using the air conditioner.  A fan that he somehow doesn't realize costs way less to operate if he'd plug it in instead.

He also doesn't usually turn on the lights or use appliances and doesn't use the hot water when he showers.

The electric company keeps coming out and changing out his power meter because they think something is wrong with it.

Funny twist: the guy is a millionaire. I guess he ended up becoming an millionaire by working a regular middle class job and being that frugal with everything in his life. Yes but you can melt the leftover candles down and make more :) The type of candle does effect that. During January sales, it's possible to get 100-hour burn church candles for a couple dollars a piece instead of the high price they usually are.  
Those ones give off a good light level (for a candle. It's no 60-watt bulb.) that you can read by if you feel so inclined.   
Of course, you wouldn't be able to get enough in the sales to last the whole year. That's one thing I've noticed - a lot of people don't actually stop and look at what things cost, they just go with what they assume to be the cheaper option. 

A lot of the things I buy at Whole Foods are the same price or cheaper than the equivalent product at a 'discount' grocery store, and it's better quality. It actually depends on where they're getting the candles and how.

You can make your own which makes them cheaper, free materials from scraps or stubs, etc.

Not saying you're wrong, but don't assume they're buying new candles to burn.
 I assumed they're buying candles to burn specifically because the guy I responded to said:


&gt;I know a really poor family that **buys** loads of candles to light their home He knows they buy, or assumes they buy?

Or does he just see them using them?

 Candles cost Way more. Like way way more. Like.. Many ways. How many *ways*, though? Judging by his username it isn't four ways.  So many ways... That depends on if we're talking metric ways or imperial ways. Like... many. It's pretty close. Christmas tree shops had a bag of 50 tea lights for $1. A pack of light bulbs is at least $5-$10. I remember as the lights burned out in our apartment we would just light 2-3 of those in the room for the night and they would do the trick.  Depends on what they're made of. Some household waste can be formed and burned as a candle, ... may not smell like perfumed candles though It's possible they can't get power turned on in their name, due to previous money issues. This can also be the case! Thanks for pointing that out. Nobody has mentioned the danger of this?  Reminds me of when I lived in NC, we'd have ice storms that would knock out the power and people with either no money or knowledge of the dangers would use some type of charcoal-based fire to heat their homes from inside, and the inevitable carbon monoxide poisoning a would happen. Even if you don't die from carbon monoxide poisoning, you're still going to get toxic fumes from the candle.  I think he's describing motive candles, and they can emit a small amount of smoke into the air.  It's not horrible for your health, but I don't recommend it same as I don't recommend fireplaces. when i was in grade school i knew a family that did this, a blanket got lit on fire and burned down the entire house killing one of the little girls.  Wow, that's terrible. It has been pointed out that using candles costs a lot more money.

I will point out that they're probably sorcerers. That's more expensive than electricity. I work in a lighting store so I know way too much about bulbs. Compact fluorescents are the way to go when it comes to dollar per life (including life of the light.) You can get them super cheap, close to $1 per bulb if you get them at dollar stores or something. LEDs are MARGINALLY more efficient. a 9.8 watt LED is equivalent to a 60 watt incandescent. On the contrary, a 13 watt CFL is equivalent to a 60 watt incandescent. LEDs only typically last about 3x as long as CFLs but they're typically a lot more expensive. That being said, LED is still new technology and the price is probably a third of what it was 2-3 years ago for the same bulb. 

This really goes for anyone, rather than this one particular family. If you're looking for the cheapest option to light your house, buy CFLs right now. I'm sure that by the time those CFLs die, YEARS from now, a comparable LED will be significantly cheaper. Hell, could be close to the price you paid for the CFL you're replacing... I don't understand the point of telling a poor family who may be hundreds of dollars in arrears to the power company that lighting their home with candles is less cost effective than electricity. 

I'm guessing they figure that the past due bill plus late fees etc may be way out of their reach at the moment but a box of candles will light the house tonight. I put those solar outdoor  lights in mason jars and use them at night. Show them this:

http://www.nydailynews.com/news/world/brazilian-mechanic-creates-light-bulb-water-bleach-bottle-article-1.1427011
 Yeah...that's kinda dangerous to have a shitload of candles burning all over the place... They should buy the ikea perpetual energy solar lamp.  It has a bendy spine so you can aim it at it's solar panel.  Buy them one or leave it on their doorstep if you feel funny about it. reminds me of this tweet:

https://twitter.com/dril/status/384408932061417472 Sad and dangerous  Get them one of these-- its really bright and charges for free.
d.light LED Solar Rechargeable #S20 Area Lantern (see amazon) for christmas gift them one of those flashlights that you shake to produce light. free energy! just need to buy food to have the energy to shake it... Please let them know that it is sometimes possible to get assistance from the state with paying your electric bill if you apply for it (I live in Georgia)  Candles supply a surprisingly high amount of heat as well, try having 4 or so burning in a room for an hour or two. Maybe instead of buying new candles next time, they could buy one of these wind-up rechargeable torches? You can pick them up for a few dollars, and they would be both brighter and safer. electricity has got be at LEAST half the cost of those candles. I have a friend who does this, she gets them in giant bags from the thrift store for when we have hurricanes. I think they are those scented candles people get as gifts but never burn, and then they die and it all goes off to the donation center.  i used to work for a water supplier. people got their water cut off frequently, to save the cost...  This is how poor people stay poor.  I've lived without electricity (wanted to pay, bureaucracy preferred to cut me off than accept my money) and it's inconvenient but unless you have electric heat you can get by with headlamps until your candle fund gets big enough to pay for power. I knew someone that bought 99 cent solar powered lamp thingies for your yard. She set them outside and brought them in and used them for light at night. Pretty clever idea, I thought. Does it make you sad because they are fucking retarded? Burning candles is so much more expensive. When their house burns down they'll wish they saved money using electric instead of candles.  Payday loans. You start off thinking "oh this isn't too bad" and take out a loan. You start doing it regularly until one day you can't make the payment for one so you just pay the "delay fee" and suddenly "hey this isn't that bad too" so you start delaying all your payday loans "till I'm good to pay" and eventually the delay loans (which compound) start becoming larger than your actual payday loans and now you have to take out another loan to pay off a delay fee for another loan. A Payday loan is financial "slow burning" Ebola for the poor. Fuck you kwikCash. How those companies are in business is beyond me; they're loan sharks without that one guy knocking at your door with a baseball bat to smash your knee caps with. John Oliver did a segment about it on his HBO show last season (you can probably watch it online somewhere). The payday loan companies use all that ill-gotten money to buy politicians off. Some in the industry even run and get elected to office themselves! The Texas legislature is particularly overrun with paid off politicos.  Here it is: Predatory Lending http://youtu.be/PDylgzybWAw The real sharks are the banks, with theft by cascading NSF fees, cheating on transaction order to get more of them, and the threat of banning you from getting an account anywhere (via TeleCheck) if you manage to evade paying any of those fees.  Payday lenders are the people you have to go once this has happened to you.

Why do you think FDIC is trying to kill the payday lending business via Operation Choke Point?  Because the banksters have bought and paid for the bureaucrats involved, and some key Congresscritters too.  They want all that ill-gotten profit for themselves. So business as usual in America with the few slicing up a little more from the rest for themselves. Any time i hear libertarians or any regulation free market argument supporting shit like this i want goku's spirit bomb to accidentally destroy earth. Because most of their business doesn't come from the desperately poor. It comes from people who make decent money. Anyone "making decent money" has a credit card. Yep. That doesn't negate what I've said though.

Payday loan places would all go out of business if they had to depend on the poor to stay in business.
 nobody with credit card would agree to a 300 - 700% interest loan, only poor people who dont have credit card would do so. your point that its not poor people who take out these predatory loans doesnt stand. Eh? Why do you think people don't max out their credit cards? 
Do your research. The vast majority of payday loan borrowers are not the perpetually poor. Lol all research says otherwise, they even train employees to give more loans to people who can't pay the current loans. Again if you have credit card you would never resort to payday loan. Great. What research? Show me.
 I'm on mobile and its also common sense, Google is your friend. Every payday loan place I've ever seen offers related services such as check cashing, money-grams, money orders, and loadable debit cards.  All are profitable businesses, and all are expensive enough that no one would use them if he had a bank account and could use that instead.  That leaves (1) the poor and (2) people who successfully resist the banksters' theft-by-NSF-fees and have been banished for doing so. &gt;All are profitable businesses, and all are expensive enough that no one would use them if he had a bank account and could use that instead. 

Quite a lot of people who have steady jobs, have 0 in their emergency cash fund. And their credit cards are maxed out.

I don't think I'll ever get through to you though. You still think that you can run a business by targeting people who are chronically poor. These people have a hard enough time coming up with rent.
 The difference between a payday loan place and a loan shark is that every once in while you get lucky and somebody shoots the loan shark. You're better off just going to a pawn shop and selling something outright. At a huge loss, those places also prey on the poor. This is where annual tax refunds are a good thing for society. Oh, not to mention Title Pawns or buy here pay here cars.! It's crazy how much you get screwed on interest hikes. I've had two, when I needed to.  But I've never heard of anyplace giving out as many or as often as you describe.  That kind of repeat use wouldn't even be possible here.  Or were you going to several different stores and telling each one it was the only one you went to? Can I just say, Starbucks throws out individually wrapped sandwiches and what not. You'd have to live near one and dig through some truly foul trash but it'll be good and clean.  worked for Barnes &amp; Noble for like 8 year in the 90s, when many stores had a a Starbucks in store, and we all had to be trained as baristas and booksellers. Starbucks would toss their coffee beans the day they expired. At one point, I had like 15 5lb bags of dark roasted beans. Panera used to the same thing near where I lived. If you waited until closing, they'd put all the unsold bread in a trash bag. I knew some teachers at my junior college who would take it and use it to feed kids who didn't have anything.  &gt; Panera used to the same thing near where I lived.

Did they stop?

Thinking about hitting up local PAneras around town.. what day did they do it? Panera Baker here. 

To the best of my knowledge, all the stores do put their stuff up for charity *but* at some of the stores I've been to,  the charities don't always pick them up,  and then they're dumped.  Not sure if they still do it; I didn't personally do the dumpster diving. But it's worth a shot to try, and I'd check every day. Bread places usually throw out the day-olds each day.  I thought Panera actually donates all unsold bread items to a local charity at the end of the day? Maybe that's what they changed to. But circa 2006, at least some were still dumping the bread.  Yep.  I HATE seeing it wasted at the end of the night so instead of putting it in the garbage, I take a few things home.  I have 2 kids and they appreciate a cheese bagel for breakfast.  Most pastries also go to the local food bank.  (I work for a similar chain coffee company in Seattle).  I used to work for starbucks and many of us were poor as all get-out so we took them home. I took those sammies and re-purposed them for all kinds of stuff!  I know I'm late to the party but how about the concept of not having a Christmas

The first year it really hit me that I knew we were poor was when my mother told me we wouldn't be able to have a real Christmas that year and I looked right back at her and told her "I know" without being upset

She still managed something that year - a small stocking with candy and some cheap bookstore novelty items that cost less then a dollar a piece...it was the most meaningful gift shed ever gotten for me on a Christmas and it has me in tears right now remembering it

The next year I dumpster dived for our Christmas tree and turned the brown side to the corner...that year my mother had managed to set aside enough money to take us out to eat at a local Chinese buffet

Fuck I love my mother...I'm gonna go call her As an extremely poor immigrant family, we picked up the junk tossed out by a nearby furniture store and fixed it up. Bought discount veggies about to go bad - just cut the rotting bits off. No games or toys, borrowed books for entertainment. Walked truly ridiculous distances in freezing winters to save on transportation.

My family did stuff like this even when no longer necessary in order to save up for a nice house. Somehow made it to upper middle class with a job upgrade and some luck, and now I have this weird mix of still being ultra frugal and being ashamed of scrounging like that. That's nothing to be ashamed of. Rich people don't get rich by spending all their money :) My dad is always picking up trash. He once picked up a door and fixed it during his break at work and his manager ended up liking it and bought it from him. Is there any time you enjoy spending money? For sure. Things are much, much better now. I tend to do lots of research to find the best deals and I think things over extremely carefully to decide if it would really be worth it, but I do buy and very much enjoy "luxuries" like art supplies and dinners out with good friends. :) That sounds great. I was just a little worried, that's all. :-) Why would you be ashamed? I don't begrudge any hardship I've had in childhood or adulthood. By world standards, having to eat gov't provided food or going to churches to keep from starving or having to accept the goodness of charitable giving was dignified compared to what other poor kids in the world had to suffer. I never had to sell my body or beg in the streets. I was safe from exploitation and all the things that befall poor kids. 

Thank you, FDR. I made it. The cycle is broken. My kids have never seen poverty. Never disparage the safety net of social services. They don't encourage poverty or laziness, they save lives.  Unfortunately they do both.  I'm glad you had help when you needed it, and so have I.  But they need to stop subsidizing people who can't afford to have kids to have them anyway.  We're being overrun, and at least the ones who read Alinsky are doing it on purpose, as he says they should. It's not the things we bought.

I grew up in a level of poverty, in the entire 1980s and some of the 1990s, that modern politicians will swear to you doesn't occur in modern America. After all, we have food stamps and welfare, and anyone still poor after that is obviously just a lazy fucking drug-addict bum. 

It's not the things we bought. We lived on powdered milk and rice and ramen (and before that, those old Won Ton Soup packets that I just realized don't exist anymore) and Gov't cheese. Tuna can after tuna can. Bread from the discount rack at the local bakery, about 9 minutes away from growing mold, but hey, at least it was only $.19 a loaf. 

It's the things we scavenged. 

Hauling food out of the dumpster at 7-11, because they threw away piles of chip bags that were a day over their expiration. (Manager caught us one day, they apparently told the employees to stab a hole in each chip bag after that. NBD, we just had to sniff each bag to make sure nothing was contaminated). Checking neighbors' trash bins - rescuing half a damn pizza some idiots had ordered the night before, then threw away after a handful of slices. Hauling in furniture from alleyways - my littlest sibling, my sister, received a twin bed mattress that had a grotesque brown stain on it, looked like someone had shit a gallon of wet feces onto it. No fucks given, we scrubbed that fucker with bleach over and over, and she slept on it for years. 

And then there were times when the welfare checks or food stamps didn't arrive, and the trash bins were not producing food. I grew up in a fairly rural area. When that happened?

I know that in winter, Grey Squirrel tastes fucking gross. Sure, people from the South can claim that their brown and red squirrels are delicious, but I would rather eat shit out of a pig's ass than eat another bite of goddamn squirrel meat. Or jackrabbit. Or goddamned dandelion greens. 

I guess I'm just saying that it's not what "insanely poor" people BUY, since they're insanely poor - they can't fucking afford to buy ANYTHING. You can keep the electricity and rent paid, or you can.... nope, there is not other choice. Food? Medicine? Clothing? Furnishings? Blankets? All of this is shit you can pull out of the garbage.

[EDIT] Some common questions:

- My family DID pull out of poverty. It wasn't easy at all.  Few employers will hire a woman who's been on welfare for 12 years, with a heart condition. 
- We got there because my father went to prison, for stealing from his employer and dealing methamphetamines. He left my mother in the lurch with three boys, and a bun in the oven. As well as the aforementioned heart condition. 
- I am the eldest of four. Although we all grew up in a shitfest of poverty, *none* of us have been less than middle class earners. I currently live in Dallas, TX, with a wonderful wife and a pool in my backyard. I have a good house, a good car, and a good job. 
- Yes, that kind of upbringing leaves scars. I don't buy my clothes new - thrift stores are fine. I buy generic brand groceries, and feel guilty as shit anytime I buy something above and beyond that. My wife and her family do not understand this. So be it.
- None of my siblings have ever been poor or on welfare in our adult lives.
- I volunteer at shelters for battered women and the homeless. And even if you didn't grow up poor, I urge you to feel sympathy and charity to those who need it most. Donate to food banks. Fuck it, give the money in your pocket to a panhandler. I'm not a hippie or straight up socialist - rather, I'm a hedonistic, atheist, aging punk rocker. But give to your fellow man. Because you might be in that situation yourself someday. We're all in this together. I choose to show kindness to those who need it, rather than turning a blind eye. We're all in this together. 
- Fuck Ronald Reagan. Although I'm an atheist now, I hope there's an afterlife just so he can *burn in hell forever.*

[DOUBLE EDIT]

Does anyone else remember the Won Ton Soup packets? This is bothering me. At the time, they were like 5 cents a packet, you could pick up 20 for a buck. Then Ramen happened, and they just went away. And they weren't GREAT, but they got me and my siblings fed more than a few nights. Does anyone else remember what I'm talking about? I slept on a bed we found, I feel you bro. Nothing worse than welfare not coming through on time. I'm the oldest of 4 siblings with just my mum to watch over us, the feeling of dread knowing your family won't be eating well is sickening.  The most heart-wrenching thing I've seen on reddit so far it's the saying:

"Growing up really poor means realizing in your twenties that mommy was lying when she said she already ate " My mom often went days without eating. My siblings and I never even knew we were poor, that's how hard she worked to make sure we always had something to eat... even when it was just cheese slices. I know one time our meals consisted of "books" (the $0.19 meat packages cut up into little squares. One pack for each of us). I remember one time my mom got a deal on old corn on the cobs, I think it was 12 pieces total. She cooked it all and we ate it all. She hadn't eaten in days at that point, and she ate 3 cobs and then proceeded to throw up because she hadn't eaten that much in days.  Your mom is the real MVP She really is.  Your mom reminds me of my own. It makes me think this is something she would do if we were in this situation. Please thank your mother for me for being such a saint. She truly deserves it.  Once I finish school and get a good job I intend to repay her for all that she has done for me! Other people are not blessed with good mothers, and I am very appreciative that my mom is so amazing!  I am sorry your father and the rest of your family didn't step up. I would be buying groceries for my parents or family if I heard of them in dire straits.

The other thing is, was there government support when you were growing up? In the U.S.,  stamps (which millions of children receive) and the free Federal school lunch program (which the majority of public school kids participate in these days) are there for a reason! My mom and dad were divorced, so he wasn't in the picture. My mom didn't tell our family that she needed help nor did she use government assistance. She worked 3 jobs to help us get by. 

I think my grandma always knew though, because one Christmas "Santa" gave her $1,000. She cried when she saw that.  Even if he's not in the picture, most states would go after him for child support. That said, if she didn't apply for food stamps or the free Federal school lunch for you, then that just makes things a lot harder... I'm sorry about that.

I can understand why your mother didn't do it, though -  I myself spent some very poor years growing up, and my parents never applied for aid. It's made me a prouder person today knowing my family never did have to depend on the government for welfare. Holy shiiiiiit. My single mother used to tell us that all the time. Looking back, there is no way she made enough money to give us all that she did. Makes me wonder what sacrifices she made that we never knew about. I'm seriously on the verge of waking her up with a phone call right now just to tell her I love her.  Do it.  Do it. Do it. My mom passed away almost 2 years ago and those are the exact thoughts through my head; but I can't call her.  Same. Hugs. Then don't waste time, I'm sure she won't care at all if you wake her up. Just... please do it. Well *my* mom would be pissed. Just sayin'. Are you gonna call her to tell her that you appreciate all she did for you when you were growing up and that the thought of all you owed her kept you awake till the point you had to call her?

If that's true and she did all that for you, she would happily spare an hour of sleep to go back to bed with a smile. Ehhh I really don't know. She has terrible insomnia. If she was actually, deeply asleep... I think she'd rather I wait til morning.

I mean, it's a moot point cause it's not even that late here.  I also have insomnia - badly. My kids aren't grown yet, but I imagine them calling me in the middle of the night ten years from now, when I've just finally started to drift off. I'd still appreciate the thought, but yeah, I'd *also* appreciate it in the morning. You must love your mom a lot. haha My mother passed away before I came to the realization that she was sacrificing for me. I never got to thank her.

Call her right now.

 We live in the same house, and I already told her all about this thread. And she said that if my brother called in the middle of the night to say he loved her, she would assume he's planning on killing himself and call the cops on him. Again. So I really think this is one of those "depends on the family" ideas. One day you're going to want to call her and she won't be there anymore. Please, call your mom. Seriously though, do it.  If you couldn't bring yourself to wake her up, make a note to do it tomorrow. Do it tomorrow morning. You never know when she won't be there anymore.  I wonder the same sometimes. My mother was very abusive, and still is, but I know she made sacrifices when I was really small. So I want to tell her I love her for everything she did, but two minutes later that call will turn into a verbal shitfest from her side.  You could just call and say "I'm busy but I just wanted to call to tell you that I'm thinking of you and love you, and I hope you're well. Have a lovely night, mom."  Do it. I sent mine a text. I'll call her first thing tomorrow. That hit me really hard. She said that so often.  Op you do it? Do it, you may not remember not waking her up, but you'll definitely remember the call where you let her know how much you appreciate her sacrifice. Life is too short to waste these opportunities.  Yep, I came to this realization a few years ago (I'm actually 20 now) and it makes me tear up every time I think about my mom doing that for us. I owe both my parents a hell of a lot because of this. I'll admit having three kids in your early EARLY 20s wasn't their best idea but they stuck by us and we never went to hungry. Dad would spend days in the bush so he could come back with a pig, goat, deer or anything. Mum would turn things from the garden into meals for 3 hungry kids and there was still the dogs to feed. I'm currently planning on making a BBQ for mum and buying a new outboard for dads boat as a thankyou for all the hardships they got us through  I just got a sinking feeling in my stomach and teared up. My mom's dead now and I can't tell her thanks and I'm sorry. Damn......... She knows. Moms always do.  *hug* Tell her.  She can still hear you.  &lt;3 It took me a couple of years to realize why my mom had lost so much weight so quickly when we were broke my 7th grade year. She would say she had already eaten, but I know better than that now.  Holy shit... mfw I realize my mom did this.. Yeah I'm closing this window now :( Jesus Christ man, I thought I grew up poor. Holy shit. Lump in my throat. I never knew I was poor growing up. 

I remember the firemen showing up with boxes of food with a He-Man action
Figure that I loved.  I never put it together that it was something put together in a food drive for the poor. 

I never knew I was poor as I always had a meal but my mom told me when I was an adult that if we didn't finish our peanut butter sandwich (my brother and I) her meal was eating the scraps. Sometimes she had nothing. She never wanted us to know she was hungry. 

She didn't plan on having twins and she didn't count on my Dad taking off.  That happened a LOT. Back when my biomom was pregnant with me, she was working as a waitress and would eat the leftovers off the plates so that she could save what little cash she had to feed my older siblings.  Unfortunately there are lots and lots of parents who spend their money on cigarettes, drugs, alcohol, soft drinks, etc. rather than buy food for their kids.

I was one of those kids. I met another one recently. I just grew a set of feels :'( Shit. Was feeling sorry for myself after a long-ass day working and an unhealthy late supper, suddenly feeling super lucky.  Dat perspective. Saw this on one of those pithy Facebook messages well-meaning friends are always posting. It's the only one that I've stopped to actually think about for more than .00002 seconds:

Remember, there's always someone praying for those things you take for granted.

Caught me by surprise, right in the feels. It's a good reminder to be a little more compassionate, and a decent effin' human being. I'm the middle of 3 and I moved out (still in high school) because I couldn't take the oatmeal and toast dinners. I feel your misery; it is a sickening thought. &gt;Nothing worse than welfare not coming through on time

You probably haven't heard about it, but the new Social Assistance system in Ontario.... fuck, [it's causing issues](https://www.google.ca/webhp?sourceid=chrome-instant&amp;rlz=1C1CHWA_enCA613CA613&amp;ion=1&amp;espv=2&amp;ie=UTF-8#sourceid=chrome-psyapi2&amp;ie=UTF-8&amp;q=sams%20issues). I remember seeing an article around Christmas time that however many people didn't get their cheques in time for Christmas. Hell, my mom told me the other day that some of her clients that received cheques that they *weren't* supposed to get have been cashing those cheques for the clients who *didn't* get cheques that they *were* supposed to get. Shitty situation. John Scalzi wrote an essay on being poor. I read it every now and then to remind myself how far my family has come over the years. I slept on egg foam if you know what that is...then upgraded to a blow up mattress stuffed in a closet that we cut a hole in (apt comp!ex) to make it fit. Living it now, it sucks. Your post reminded me of my childhood. I grew up in Turkey. My mom and my little sister used to wait farmer's markets to close and rush there before garbage men so we could collect tomatoes, onions, and potatoes that were left behind to rot. For a while all we could afford was bread, and the question was what could you scavenge from outside to make that bread a bit more nutritious.

My mom tried very hard, and I will be forever in her debt.

The education is free in Turkey. I tried very hard and managed to get into a university following the nation-wide exam to study computer engineering. It changed everything. After graduation I started living in Istanbul a prosperous life compared to what my life had been like 10 years before that. I did not get over my past. I was single for a long time, and lived a rather lonely life. Every week I would go out multiple times to buy sandwiches and gave it to random homeless people without even letting them have a chance to thank me. 

Now I live in Cape Cod. Those days of my life feel as ancient as possible. But your post hit me straight back to those days.

edit: Obviously what saved me and my family was the free higher-education in Turkey. If I was born in the US, I would have never gotten out that level of poverty, which is quite a heart-breaking fact. &gt; Obviously what saved me and my family was the free higher-education in Turkey. If I was born in the US, I would have never gotten out that level of poverty, which is quite a heart-breaking fact.

Hopefully that will be corrected soon.

 It's not a full fix, but hopefully The President's proposed community college program can help with these situations.   Education for everyone, beyond high school,  really is one of the keys to fixing problems like this.  I'm with ya. My sibs and I clawed our way out of that nonsense. Stay strong, brother. In the United States, young people can borrow government subsidized money to study and pay for school expenses regardless of their grades, test scores, or choice of major. There a community college (I went to community college), and there is also financial aid grants for the poor - also regardless of grades, test scores, or choice of major. So if you were born in the U.S. You could have gone to college anyway... And hopefully studied hard and selected a good major to be able to pay down debts. &gt; they apparently told the employees to stab a hole in each chip bag

I will never understand this. What, you find your garbage is someone else's survival treasure? *Let me make it even more shitty for them, for no benefit or reason at all* :( There was a shoe shop downtown that would throw out their old stock. They would throw out the lefts shoes, then wait two weeks and throw out the right. If you were timely with hitting the dumpster you could get new shoes if you didn't mind waiting a couple weeks to complete the pair. I worked at a store that had a similar problem - anything we threw in the dumpster was to be completely trashed and useless. People would follow the trash truck to pull stuff out of the dump. Or so we were told. I really don't understand that. The only people who would go dumpster diving for it are the people who wouldn't be buying the shoes in the first place. That isn't the point. Your place of business cannot, under any circumstances, become a destination for the poor and homeless. For every poor family down on their luck trying to get shoes for their children there's a drug addict who will stab your employee if the trash doesn't contain what they wanted that day and they're having a bad trip. If they begin to congregate even a tiny bit, they start to scare away paying customers.

I understand why people feel that way, but you have to consider situations from every angle. A store might even donate some of their waste to charity, but they still can't have the homeless at their dumpster. This is the reason why I am glad we have St. Vincent DePaul in my area. I have never used their services but they are sort of known among the stores as a very helpful organization for homeless and poor people. They will accept nearly anything food related as long as it is not beyond spoiled or actual food scraps and almost all other items that are donated. They centralized the food collection to a single area so stores can keep potential threats to their business away, they can get a slight tax break through the donations, and the charities can supply a lot more people with what they need to live. It really is a great solution to a food waste issue. In LA?  That place got me through a lot of hard times when I first moved here with just a backpack.  Its like the Mecca of thrift stores, a love child of Goodwill and Nordstroms.  I got a Hugo Boss suit for $10 and you always find local designer clothes that had slight manufacturing defects.  Anyone in LA should check it out. This one is in SE Michigan but it is basically the same way. They operate a few thrift stores where they sell the larger items that most homeless people could not use and other things like suits, etc. because it gives everyone a chance to get ahead in life. I guess I can understand it from that perspective. I would still prefer if companies would donate what they were going to throw away, but that's just my wistful hoping for a perfect world. I used to work in the home department of a large department store. We often had to "damage out" blankets, pillows, towels, etc. and throw them away. It killed me. Every time, but especially in winter. Knowing how much difference a blanket I was throwing in the trash would make to someone just ate at me. (I had no choice. If I tried to take it home with me so I could donate it, I'd have gotten fired for stealing.) Several times I asked my manager and the store manager if we could adopt a policy of donating damages, and finally it was explained to me that if a company damages out an item, they get a tax write-off for the full value of the item, but if they donate it, they don't. Worst policy ever, but I can see why companies can't donate more, I guess.  I work at a bakery that sells most of our pastries at half price the day after they're made and throw them out after that. If it's a Friday, because we're closed on weekends, we throw everything away. My co-workers take boxes of pastries to friends and family, but there is still a lot of waste. We constantly get customers complaining about it out asking if we can donate it, but the corporate office says no. 

We can't have our products presented to anyone if they're less than perfect, it would make us look bad. On top of that, we can't have homeless people digging through the dumpsters out back while we are open, it looks bad to the average customer. 

For what it's worth, I usually give free coffee and a croissant or something if someone just asks or tells me that they can't afford it. I can't make a habit out of it and do have to pay full price for it out of pocket, but I've been there and know it's tough. I worked at a Krispy Kreme. We always had a ton of waste that was thrown out. We called the food bank numerous times to schedule a pick up to donate donuts, boxed everything up and then the person from the food bank never showed to pick them up, so we eventually gave up. Worked in another restaurant and questioned why we didn't donate food we were throwing out that was still good, but was older than our 4 day limit. I guess a lot of restaurants in the area used to do this, then one of the homeless shelters kept the meat for longer than they should have and *then* cooked it and served it. People got food poisoning and sued the restaurant. Now all the restaurants in the area just throw it out. Well there are legal reason they can't donate food over the expiration date. I know it sucks but still. I know plenty of store that will give expired food to certain down on their luck families. I myself was privy to such kind folks (or so I was told, I was very young at the time). 

That being said after both my father and mother become much better off we moved to a much nicer area. And in this area almost everyone has lived a very privileged life since they were born. And they would not go to the best vet in the area simply because it was based under some low-income housing. They stopped visiting the local ice cream shop that was easily the busiest place in town, until a salvation army moved in across the street of course. 

They would not visit these places because of the "bad element." And you know what? They weren't wrong. While probably 90% of the people in those apts, or shopping in that store were totally kind people who where just down on their luck, that salvation army was the only place in the entire town to ever have a murder occur in my 16 years living in that town. 

Tl;dr: it sucks that the minority ruins it for everybody but if you have the money why would ever go to a place that even has the smallest chance a junkie will murder you? This is unfortunately true. I managed a hotel for a few months recently and several times I had to turn away homeless people desperate for a bed for the night when I had plenty of rooms sitting empty. If I let them stay then they would come back, word would spread, paying guests would see them hanging around and not come back. It could ruin the business. If that business failed then people would lose their jobs. 

I still felt like such an asshole when I turned them away. I gave them a little spare food a couple of times but stopped when I realised those I helped would come back. Ugh, I feel shitty again just writing this. Night shift hotel manager here with homeless outside and vacant rooms. I sometimes feel like a heartless monster.  This is true I use to work for a chipotle and every morning they donated food that was left over from the previous night to some local charity.  But they never give away anything for free to a random person who asked during service hours, because then people will expect free and chipotle is not a charity. Thanks for bringing up a valid potential reason. I couldn't think of one I can definitely see your point. I actually changed gas stations because people kept panhandling outside of my old one.  For the mid to high end brands they don't want poor people wearing their brands.  Coach, for example, will do whatever it can to avoid homeless people wearing their clothing. Luxury brands typically burn the overstock because they want to avoid selling their brand at a discount. 

People only buy Louis Vuitton or Burberry because it's expensive, and by wearing it they advertise how rich they must be. But if the middle class were able to buy the overstock at half price then suddenly that person isn't wearing a 3,000$ purse, she probably got it at a super discount and only paid 500$.

It's not the homeless they care about, it's the next lower income bracket they want to avoid. If I ever win the lottery, I'm going to go hand out designer handbags to the homeless. Prob better to just give them straight up money since I know that I'd pawn that off first chance I get. 

Or if it's a big lottery win maybe buying a some houses and letting them stay there for free. Louis Vuitton and several other luxury brands burn anything leftover. It's not to prevent poor people from wearing it, it's brand protection. Part of their image is full price everything, no exceptions. Even the regular retailers at the mall do this on some level. When things are too damaged to sell, the items are either destroyed in store (usually cut up) or sent away to be destroyed. You protect your brand by making sure people can't buy pieces from you that are below your standard.  A guy I used to know, he would dumpster dive at Bed Bath and Beyond then go in when they were open and return the stuff for store credit. I've worked for a place that purposely smashes perfectly good functioning electronics of all sorts before disposing of them.  Wouldn't want anyone to get their hands on one and get a leg up in the world.  Big screen TV's, laptops, whole sound systems, the list goes on.  All obviously a few years old and being replaced but all perfectly good.  Sledgehammer party in the loading dock. Wouldn't want drug addicts finding out that this is a good place to get stuff they can pawn, and then showing up all the time after dark, when your young, often unarmed, often vulnerable employees are walking to their cars.  I've done this with furniture. I worked for a hauling company and would pick up furniture from folks who couldn't transport their couches or large furniture anywhere to donate or dispose of them. We would charge people by how much room in our truck they used, drive around the corner and break it all down with sledges and axes so that we could do the same to our next customers. After, we would go to recycling centers to recycle whatever cardboard, metal, refrigerators, etc. we could and the company would get paid for recycling as well.

I loved breaking everything up, but didn't think about how terrible it was that we weren't donating the decent items. If we could get paid to recycle instead of donate, we would recycle.  Way back in Reagan's 80s, I worked for a company called Meldisco who operated the shoe departments for Kmart. When shoes were returned and not sold we were ordered to take knives and cut them up. Allegedly it was so no one could try to return them. With the number of poor and homeless around, that seemed like such a waste to me.
 I actually knew some people who were dumpster divers about 6-7 years ago that would get boots from a store's garbage and return them for store credit and sell the credit, until they were caught and they started wrecking the merchandise before trashing it.  So it's a thing. They could just accept returns only with the purchase ticket, it's common practice where I live. I worked at a shoe store when I was a teen. We had to slice the shoes with a blade before throwing them out. The reasoning, I believe, was because people would hunt in the trash for old shoes, then try returning them to the store for cash. These weren't old stock though, they were shoes that were already returned. Let's say you let them.

Homeless guy 1 tells homeless guy 2 and 3 there's heaps of food here.

Homeless dudes 2 and 3 tell their friends

All of a sudden there's heaps of homeless guys waiting outside this dumpster generally being a nuisance. Some may even choose to sleep there, piss there, shit there. 

That's pretty much why. 

Better option is to donate all the food, but that costs too much to do it every day. Maybe you can start an organisation which goes around to various restaurants and grocery stores and takes food otherwise going to be thrown out to give to the homeless. 
 Ooh!  Ooh!  I know this!  Pick me!

This "business strategy" was talked about in John Steinbeck's very very very good book *The Grapes of Wrath*, which followed the plight of bankrupt subsistence farmers fleeing their drought-ravaged homeland for the idyllic paradise of California (or so they thought based on propaganda pamphlets).  IIRC, when they got there the fertile land was producing so much food that the prices were going down all over the place... So big land owners started discarding and destroying their own product to keep prices up.  There was a scene where the hungry immigrants were seen scavenging the discarded food, so it was more cost effective to literally POST GUARDS over a bunch of discarded potatoes, hams, and oranges floating in a river to keep the poor away from them, thereby forcing them to buy the produce at an artificially inflated price.

**SO BASICALLY** what's happening here is most likely that the manager of the 7/11 doesn't want people "exploiting" free garbage, so he destroys the perfectly good leftovers in an attempt to force them to buy the product on the shelves.  Doesn't that just make you feel all warm and fuzzy inside? That's stupid. The store is probably playing it safe for liability reasons. Dick move, but not as Machiavellian as you make it sound. There is a reason, he wants to keep dumpster divers away from his dumpster and have them find a different one to sift through.  I suspect they didn't like the image of poor people trawling through their trash. They didn't want to have them around. (I am not excusing their behavior; just trying to describe their mentality) It's a liability issue.

If some random homeless straggler eats something out of your dumpster and then gets sick, it's possible grounds for legal action against the store. Lawyer here. Would be curious to see a citation to a successful judgment for someone getting sick out of eating trash from a defendant's dumpster. 
 The [Bill Emerson Good Samaritan Food Donation Act](http://www.law.cornell.edu/uscode/text/42/1791) was passed to allow food to be donated without the donors facing liability (except for gross negligence or intentional misconduct).

[Here is a good article on that law and the legality of food recovery by the Arkansas School of Law (PDF)](http://law.uark.edu/documents/2013/06/Legal-Guide-To-Food-Recovery.pdf) Wouldn't puncturing bags of chips to contaminate them fall under intentional misconduct? They are poking holes in the bag to contaminate them. Just throwing them in there intact seems like less of a liability to me  Putting it in the garbage isn't donating it. That applies to a donation. This happened years ago near a photo lab. The employees threw the empty containers that once held chemicals in the trash. Mentally ill homeless man pulled one of the containers out and was using it to carry his drinking water. Naturally, his organs began to fail and he ended up dying. Almost as naturally, some of his relatives arrived out of nowhere with lawyers. The lab had to hire some very expensive lawyers themselves but they were not held liable because there was no proof the man had gotten *their* particular chemical bottles out of *their* dumpster. After this happened, the rule was the bottles had to be cut before being discarded.  What case is that? It sounds like something that everyone retells but no one can ever source. What about getting injured in our around the dumpster that attracted them there?  I would say "NO TRESPASSING. OFFENDERS ARE BREAKING THE LAW (CRIME) AND SHOULD REPORT TO AUTHORITIES"

Then anyone who hurts themselves clearly does so in the comission of a crime. I shit you not, those crazy base jumpers, when they get injured, sometimes sue the building/construction site for insufficient security  Anybody can sue for pretty much anything.  It only matters if they win.  No, it only matters if you have to spend thousands in legal costs protecting yourself to ensure that they do not win.  Getting sued has costs in terms of money, time lost and stress, even if the suit has little to no chance of winning.  Plus, 7-11s are independently owned.  Neither of the people I know who own one (one family I know pretty well) are rolling in extra dough.  That store is the family's entirely livelihood, both of their kids are in college, and you just don't take chances with that.

I would also add that commercial garbage services generally do not pick up any garbage that is on the ground.  People rummaging through dumpsters very often (see: usually) leave crap all over the place in the course of doing so, causing cleanup expenses and possible increased vermin issues.  If I owned a convenience store, I would take some steps to keep people out of my dumpster as well, although I would also possible set aside unsellable food for people to come take.  

OTOH, the guy who told his employees to poke holes in the bag may just be a tremendous dick.

I do agree with /u/TheVideoGameLawyer's skepticism about there being successful judgments against a store owner stemming from someone eating out of their dumpster. It's not like homeless have deep pockets. They'll only sue if a lawyer takes the case on a contingency basis, and a lawyer isn't going to take a case on a contingency basis if they're going to lose. Only if your definition of 'win' takes into account the financial burden of fighting the case. Can be hard to win that way. This is why I was able to retire in my thirties, I was hired time and time again to terminate the lives of litigious base jumpers.  I don't really feel a bit of shame. More likely, *their medical insurance companies* sue the building/construction site for insufficient security.

Because medical insurance is a scam.  They're not in the business of paying medical expenses.  They're in the business of collecting premiums.

And if they have to pay anything substantial they'll fight tooth and nail to find someone else to pay.  Anybody they could possibly put it off on.  Sometimes even you. which is why I never understood my southern neighbors' dislike for obamacare  Obamacare has forced people to do business with insurance companies.

Last time I actually needed my "insurance" the hospital got my insurance company to ok every procedure before it was performed.  They ok'd everything.  Then when it was time to pay, they refused claiming that I had other insurance that would be paying for it.

Well, it turns out that the "other insurance" they were waiting for -- was my expected pain and suffering settlement.

So at the end of the day I paid for every bit of my obnoxiously expensive medical bills (for severe and extensive burns and a few amputated fingertips), literally with my ass.

Medical insurance is a scam.
 I'll look into it for $200/hr, 5-hr minimum plus expenses. only $200/hour? lol you noob.  See, it's affordable!  You should hop on that deal; then you'll get to have paid for research that didn't yield results.  An *accountant* could word that in a way to make people think it was proof that no such judgement has ever been rendered.  Anybody that has passed the bar and scoffs at a $10K investigation fee (minimums are not maximums) should find such a task easy. I think it'd be successful if they could prove in any way that the person throwing it away had knowledge it was being salvaged and endorsed it by inaction.  It doesn't matter if there's a successful judgment. Management is all about CYA. Similar reason why I was told to dispose of large cardboard boxes (think the kinds designed for shipping guitars and such) into tiny squares, smaller than a foot for each piece. 

Was to discourage homeless folk from hanging around the back of the store; who'd then leave broken glass and syringes, with plenty of feces and evidence of fucking *campfires.* 

Can't have random health hazards, HIV, human waste and fire hazards being a potential threat, either to workers, customers, or the store in general.  ya'll should be recycling that shit.  Unsealing the chip bags doesn't prevent people from eating the product; locking the dumpster would. I'd figure the store's logic was that people wouldn't eat the chips if they were covered in rancid garbage.  

By opening the chip bags and attempting to mix with the garbage that is already in the dumpster, they are trying to discourage people from eating food in the trash. Sure, but someone who's reached the level of eating garbage is going to look anyway.  A lock would cost five bucks, prevent entry to anyone not coming prepared with bolt cutters, and your employee wouldn't have to waste his time away from the tills/poking holes in chip bags.

It's a shitty thing to do, but if you want to avoid liability... I'm not saying that it's the solution that I would have come up with, but it seems that stores are trying to do just that to avoid liability. I think it might also have something to do with just not wanting people to go through the trash. If I put trash on my driveway, I wouldn't want someone digging around in it, especially not if they are making a mess. How to stop that? Make sure that whatever is in the trash isn't worth having.

Also, if you let people have your perfectly fine trash food that you simply aren't legally allowed to sell anymore for free, then what incentive do they have to actually purchase things from your store? Sure, they may not have bought it even if it wasn't available for free, but the store doesn't know that.

I'm not saying that it's a morally just thing to do, but there are definitely reasons for it. And since the food is "expired" it's not like they can donate it to an actual organization. Clinton actually signed a bill into office that protects stores who donate expired food to nonprofit organizations:

http://www.feedingamerica.org/ways-to-give/give-food/become-a-product-partner/protecting-our-food-partners.html &gt; If I put trash on my driveway, I wouldn't want someone digging around in it, especially not if they are making a mess.

I can't imagine feeling worse about a mess on my driveway than about people having to eat from the trash. I thought that that was the justification behind *locking* dumpsters. Purposefully contaminating the food and then leaving it accessible sounds like even *more* of a liability issue. ... Wouldn't contaminating the chips make them MORE likely to make someone sick? it's a travesty is what it is, and one of the biggest symptoms of underlying problems in this country. Since it's garbage, and garbage is technically 'public property', how would they justify that the store made them sick since what they ate was 'public property'? Not sure about the states but in the U.K it's the same.
It's not regarded as public property at that time: it's the companies responsibility to safely dispose of any produce or waste.  If someone ate it and became ill, it's grounds for legal action.  It's on the companies property and in their bins.  Until it's collected they haven't disposed of it and it's still their responsibility.  Some companies over here actually pour bleach in the bins. Which is disgusting. 

Years ago I caught a guy climbing the 8ft steel, pointy fence round the back of the store I worked in as I was locking up.   Poor guy was about my age at the time (early twenties) and clearly homeless.  Stopped locking the gate after that and put the decent waste in a separate bag to the gross waste and even 'wrote' a few things off cos they 'accidentally' got damaged.  My minimum wage job wasn't worth making the poor guys life harder. &gt; Since it's garbage, and garbage is technically 'public property'

I'm not sure that's universally true.

It likely varies state to state but I really don't care enough to look it up. They are probably thinking that if they basically give away the chips for free, it will drive demand down in the store, thus decreasing actual sales. A selfish view to take, but a businessman's nonetheless. Hey man, that story is fucking horrific. Hope you're doing better now Nope. I'm good. My family's situation improved when I was 17. I'm upper middle class now. 

But as I noted elsewhere, the scars stay. I buy generic brand shit at the grocery store. I buy my clothing at a thrift store (Barrio stores are the BEST thrift stores). 

First time I made a serious splurge purchase? I was 21. I bought a Wal-Mart CD player, in 1996, that I straight up didn't need. Felt good, man.  I'd like to think he's not some homeless guy with a reddit account in the public library I feel bad for growing up middle class now. 1. Pay your taxes gladly, knowing that at least some is going towards alleviating poverty.

2. Vote to improve the proportion of taxes that go towards alleviating and preventing poverty!

3. Donate to charities that help the poor, or volunteer.

4. ???

5. No more guilt. Can you feel the immense weight of all of human existence and simultaneous poverty that led you to this point? I will always feel guilty This why I am constantly reminded of the boyscout vespers (you can hear videos of this on youtube) that basically make me reminisce on the past day and if I can truly answer yes to all of the questions I know I will be happy and guilt limited. Yes, I have not done everything in the world to fix it, but have I done enough for a day to help alleviate the world's issues? Was I truly acting out of laziness or practicality when I did not help the world/recycle? Now, if only reddit gold could buy food... And fairly representative of 99.99% of human existence for the past couple hundred thousand years. I'm not saying it's ok, it's not. I'm saying that perspective is useful and we're tougher than we realize, and drinkfuckfight (coincidence?) is tougher than the rest of us coddled folks here who bitch about mostly trivial things... myself included, so it's good to be reminded of our human roots from time to time. We're all descended from hard asses, survivors. It's in our blood.  I grew up nearly as poor, although not quite as poor. My grandparents had a garden, so we were okay for food, but everything we had was from thrift stores, garage sales, handmade, or hand-me-down. And my step-dad could hunt, so we had a lot of strange meat. My grandma LOVED dandelion greens, so we had a lot of those. And later in life I became quite an avid fan of abandoned furniture by the dumpster. 

But boy, when you got to the mattress story, shudders just ran through me and I realized we were not as poor as I thought. I feel you, I grew up similar and still know people living in that manner. There are many Americans that poor and they are indeed not drug addicted lazy people. I grew up sickeningly middle class so I cannot relate at all to growing up like that but I want to scream at and punch people that think that everyone, or even the majority,  of people receiving public assistance of any type are lazy or addicted to drugs and just intentionally "mooching" off of the government. It is pure blind ignorance and a slap in the face to all data and anecdotal stories like the one above. The myth perpetuated, by primarily the right, about how most people receiving public assistance are "welfare queens" is one of the great injustices in attempting to begin to solve the social ills of the US.  This is the best answer I've seen. My brother and I slept on the floor of our single-room house until one of our neighbors threw out a mattress because someone had given birth on in. Score! Sleeping on that blood stained thing was infinitely better. My mom was a cafeteria lunch lady and used to take home the leftover food at the end of the day so that we didn't go hungry. I would get super excited to take trips to the landfill and restocking our house will all sorts of great (if slightly broken) things that people just threw away. My parents could only afford what was absolutley necessary: the house payment, beer, and cigarettes. Everything else was, well, one man's trash... Beer and cigarettes aren't necessary. Fuck parents who do that. 


My mom used to send us to parking lots to pick up cigarette butts so that she could pull out the leftover tobacco and reroll them in papers.



 I like the way you write things. You sound like a natural storyteller.  I have sold a few articles to magazines, on this topic. Just an anonymous fuckbag here on reddit, tho. It never occurred to me until now that the "bread store" we went to growing up was near-expired stuff. I remember on special occasions, we could get a $0.25 pastry from there.

So, not as bad as yours, but we also had a small farm to help out with food. We hit a deer with my car. Scavenged for parts in the junkyard to fix the car ourselves and ate the damn deer. Hell yeah that's free food and meat is not cheap. Throw some deer meat and beans in a pot and you have lunch and dinner for a week. God. We once poached a deer. 

No licenses, fuck that. I was 14 years old, we had a laughable garden in the backyard. My mother had inherited a 30.06 bolt action rifle from her father that was rusty as fuck. I woke up at 6 am one day, and this big goddamn doe is in the backyard. I grabbed that rifle and put her the fuck down. One shot, just behind the forelegs, dead center on the heart. It was only about 20 feet, so yeah, not the great white hunter there. 

We ate like fucking kings for a month, after we figured out how to gut it. I hope you and your family are doing better now.  This puts things in perspective.  That was beautifully written. At the beginning, I was expecting to see a name credited at the end because you were quoting someone, but as I read on, it was clear that this wasn't from a published novel, because you were responding to this specific question. Seriously, beautifully written.

My heart breaks for anyone who has to go through this on a daily basis. I am very thankful for my dinner and snacks tonight. &gt; I grew up in a level of poverty, in the entire 1980s and some of the 1990s, that modern politicians will swear to you doesn't occur in modern America. After all, we have food stamps and welfare, and anyone still poor after that is obviously just a lazy fucking drug-addict bum.

You know what I find so incredibly frustrating?  I know a guy who is *almost* as poor as what you describe.  He's a preacher.  He used to have a good-paying construction job, but had to quit due to chronic health conditions.

And you know what?  He spouts the conservative bullshit.  About how people on assistance are lazy good-for-nothing bums.  The only reason people are poor is because they're lazy.  Nevermind that he works his ass off and he's still poor.  He has a son-in-law who is literally dying due to complications related to diabetes (he's not a fatty, actually a skinny guy, before the fatpeoplehate people start jerkin') and gripes about him not working and trying to get on disability.  The son-in-law is unable to stay awake for long periods of time and is in and out of the hospital.  Preacher man without compassion ain't much of a preacher man at all.

And this guy *had paperwork sent to him stating that he qualified for assistance, and refused it*.  Pure bullheaded stubbornness.  Plus, and this is purely my opinion, he knew he'd have to get off his high horse about entitlements if he started getting assistance.

I never ate much squirrel or rabbit, but can imagine that it gets old in a hurry. how were you that poor? honest question Because the economy in the 80s was shite.  I wasn't that poor growing up only because I was an only child with a two parent income.  My parents together made just under 40 thousand dollars.  So things were tight but we were never in danger of going hungry.  There were toys on birthdays and christmas.  I was fine. 

But take away one of those incomes due to an illness or to layoffs (there were a lot of layoffs in the 80s).  Add three more kids.  Suddenly things look pretty damn grim.  

That is how you get that poor.  Not necessarily through any fault.  Sometimes life just runs the fuck over you. Wow, that really brings it all back - I remember that brick of gov't cheese. That stuff was nasty, but it was the only way we got cheese! Went well with the spam. I tried to tell my husband about it, but he has no idea. Sometimes my siblings and I just look at each other and say Gov't Cheese! when our kids are whining about not having the latest video game. 

Unless you've lived it, you just don't get it. I grew up in a fairly wealthy family. Not rich, but my parents combined made over $100K a year in the 90s. I moved out when I was 19 because money doesn't make a family. The family I moved in with was so poor they went 'picking' about twice a week. Picking involved going behind the local grocery stores and getting whatever looked fresh. We'd get all kinds of crazy stuff. Fresh(ish) veggies and fruits, chips, bread, milk, eggs, you name it. The good days were when they'd throw out the rotisserie chickens. If we got there at just the right time (about 9:30pm), they'd still be warm. After I moved in with them and started paying rent, they had enough money to buy food, bit their dad would still go picking once a week or so because he was scared of not having enough. They had an extra fridge he'd gotten from somewhere that was absolutely stuffed with food, most of it so old it wasn't edible anymore, but it never got thrown away because there was always that fear that someday there wouldn't be enough. &gt; (Manager caught us one day, they apparently told the employees to stab a hole in each chip bag after that. NBD, we just had to sniff each bag to make sure nothing was contaminated)

I'm trying desperately to think of a reason why the manager would care. It's not like your family taking the dumpster food was preventing a sale. Liability Maybe, but it seems like poking a hole in the bags only increases liability. It's not like it can be reasonably expected that someone who digs through garbage for food is going to reject the bags now because the foil wrapping isn't in pristine condition. most chip bags have a "do not purchase/consume if the seal has been torn" on them. What did you do to get out of the situation?  Sounds like an episode of Shameless. I feel super lucky that when we were super poor there were lots of food banks around. There was a place your family could get free lunch if you had kids under the age of 16 (which I was at the time) and then there was always tons of gourmet bread (local handmade) that was donated that nobody wanted. Wonderbread would be gone in an instant, but handbaked rye would sit there for weeks.

We never had a shortage of delicious bread.  I figured this question was ridiculous to begin with.  What do people with barely any financial means purchase that nobody has ever heard of?  What a joke of a question.  I really enjoyed your post. Seriously, hugs. I was poor too. Like that kind of poor. If you live near Western Washington I'd love to take you out to eat. As someone who actually had an outhouse well into the 80s this brings me back. I've had to explain to 'other poor people' that I didn't have cable growing up. Seriously? We had a thrift store 13" B&amp;W television. DVD players were already semi-common by the time we could spring for a VCR. We had a wood stove that both heated our house and cooked our food. My brother and I, being in a fatherless home, both learned to chop wood alarmingly early.

We lucked out in that it sounds like you were more rural than us. Our neighbors were closer and somewhat generous so we never had to resort to squirrel. We could usually find someone to give us deer meat. But I would add beg to your list of free activities with which to attain goods. Begging was definitely a thing. At least it wasn't bleach. A local pizza owner a few years back got in large amounts of shit for having workers poor bleach over the food they threw out. 
I had one friend who when working at fast food place would package the good food in a separate trash bag and leave it at the top for this reason.  How does this happen? I'm not emotional at all about it, but just want to understand. How does this actually happen? The chip bag anecdote reminds me of my first job at a Dominick's bakery.  Every morning I would have to throw out all of the "expired" bread, bagels, muffins, and other baked goods. Literally shopping carts full of perfectly fine food. 

One day I asked the manager if we could organize a food drive to pick up this food each day and he laughed in my face.  Dominick's went out of business, by the way. Fuck that place. Instead of gilding this guy, why not do something to help someone else?  Give a buck or two to that homeless person.  Put in an hour at the shelter?  Pay it forward.  Meh.   I don't know if you are still reading every response, but I feel you, though I don't remember those packets.  We used to "feed the ducks" a lot, which involved going to the local pond, with the dumpster bread that was too stale to eat, we would lure the ducks to my dad's van and he would hit them with a 2x4.  Had rabbit and snake but never squirrel.  My family didn't pull out of poverty but I joined the army at 17, and got some money in the house.  Sorry you had to go through it too. &gt; they apparently told the employees to stab a hole in each chip bag after that. 

What! The! Fuck!
 I could have written much of this post, but ESPECIALLY the Ronald Reagan part. I'm an atheist too, so if by some chance we're wrong, I'd go sit in Hell's Hot Tub and laugh my ass off at Cheney, Bush, Rumsfeld and all the neocons.

But especially Reagan. I would ask the devil for permission to fuck him in the ass with a red-hot poker. One of the most evil Presidents we've ever had. I can fucking TASTE those ramen soup packets.   I was born in the mid-70s and while we were not poor, we ate them all the time.  I can't remember for the life of me what they looked like.  But I can taste them and I remember what the wontons looked like.

That and Wylers fruit punch.   We drank the shit out of that stuff.  It was probably nothing but red food coloring and sugar but damn, we loved it. Tuna is expensive.  Buy chicken. the problem with the politicians is that almost all have always been at least middle class. and those that actually have been poor, have not been for so long they can't remember it.

they literally cannot comprehend that life, and at a subconscious level might not even believe it exists. it's like if you tried to understand living a nomadic life in Mongolia, when you've never even ridden a horse. Hell yes, I remember. They were basically powdered bullion cubes in a tinfoil packet, from what I recall. Tasted like slightly chicken-ish straight MSG. &gt; Fuck Ronald Reagan. Although I'm an atheist now, I hope there's an afterlife just so he can burn in hell forever.

I'm not disagreeing with this, but since I didn't grow up in the 1980s (and wasn't even born in the US) I don't have a good understanding as to why the poor and minorities really hate this guy so much.

I'd love some insight into this from someone who lived it (aside from "he fucked over the poor" because I can pick that up from context). Thanks! I remember the instant wonton soup! The noodles were very thin with a tiny piece of ground meat. 

You sound like a really great person, I'm glad you're situation improved! Don't know if you read comics, but you should check out Deadly Class. The protagonist is a kid growing up the streets who wants to become the world's greatest assassin specifically to exact his revenge on Ronald Reagan. When I was a kid (in the 90s) one of my favorite snacks were those Maruchan cup of Won Ton. I had actually completely forgot about them until last month when I decided I wanted some. It turns out they were discontinued circa 2009-2011 because the cup ramen, like you said. I worked at a supermarket for many years, one of my jobs was to scan and dispose of the out of date stock. When my manager discovered that there were people going in the bin out the back to scavenge the leftover food he went out the front of the store, got three bottles of bleach and ordered me to cover the food in it. His reasoning was that if someone got ill they could sue, or alternatively they could try to return the stock for money. 

I point blank refused as I didn't want someone dying on my conscience, I was sent home and told to come back the next day for a disciplinary hearing. When I came back in the next day I was told that I would be dismissed for gross misconduct and sent home again. I appealed, when the area manager heard the appeal he immediately reinstated me and told the manager never to do that again. The solution was to find the key for the bin and lock it at night which they did. I found a copy of the key (it was only one of those triangular gas cupboard keys) and left it outside. 

No-one died from eating spoilt food, no-one sued the company and I sincerely hope that the families that were taking stuff from the bins had some good meals out of it.   &gt; Fuck Ronald Reagan. Although I'm an atheist now, I hope there's an afterlife just so he can burn in hell forever.

I hate when people just reply "this," but here goes. This. I don't give out money to panhandlers downtown because a former homeless guy told me that the homeless have their hierarchy and often those who are unable to defend themselves or don't have connections will be pushed out miles out of the downtown area, to places with a "low return". Not to mention I rarely carry cash these days. The downtown homeless have also gotten more aggressive, so people are even less inclined to give (and if you're a petite woman walking alone, you don't stop, you keep walking).

I donate to vets organizations, food-banks, volunteer at soup kitchens. These I think have a higher chance of reaching more people than simply giving money to someone on the street. 

I do still shop at goodwill, so many great things to be found! I have to replace my goodwill boots, but haven't been able to find a suitable pair yet. Why the specific hate for Reagan? I mean, I hate him too and there are plenty of reasons, I'm just trying to figure out why you specifically called him out in this post; did he lead the charge to cut welfare benefits when you were young, or something? Bingo. Just one more reason to hate him, I guess.  It drives me nuts how he is held up by the GOP as some kind of paragon of centrism and the greatest president in the past century, when in fact he did economic, social, and political harm to this country that we are still recovering from decades later.

I firmly believe that the decision by him (and the Congress of that era) to drastically cut taxes on the wealthy was/is one of the most harmful and damaging things that has occurred to the people of this country since WWII.  Even today we have crumbling infrastructure and basic services getting further and further trimmed down because all the money is sitting in the vaults of the rich instead of flowing through the economy and raising people out of poverty.

The amount of people who lost necessary and beneficial services as the government was starved of money while the rich exponentially grew their war chests just makes me sick. I don't know why but you sound like one of the coolest guys to hang out with. I could actually learn many things from you because I'm maybe not as poor as you were but I'm so afraid of the next month because there is so much to pay.. Really good read. Thanks for sharing... &gt; Manager caught us one day, they apparently told the employees to stab a hole in each chip bag after that

That is so cruel and spiteful :(  "I'd rather RUIN IT than let someone eat it!"   Story lvl: Tracy Jordan. [Videodrome](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M6AXQeCE9Rw#t=52) is a classic mindfuck movie. By the end of the movie it's difficult to tell what is real and what isn't. Long live the new flesh! [Triangle](http://www.imdb.com/title/tt1187064/) and [Primer](http://www.imdb.com/title/tt0390384/). Had to watch both many times. The latter is much geekier.

Edit: added imdb links. I'm pretty sure that the only person who understands primer is the person who wrote it. Check out the Wikipedia page for it.  Seven fucking timelines! https://i.imgur.com/fi3JS7R.png

I was led to believe there are many more! http://xkcd.com/657/ There is a timeline mapped out which is almost as hard to follow as the movie [Spoiler](http://unrealitymag.com/movies/at-last-a-definitive-timeline-for-primer/) This is the timeline I reference whenever this great movie is brought up. Obligatory spoiler tag, but I've seen the movie and this is still difficult to follow so I'm not sure you'd know what you were looking at if you hadn't. Aren't you supposed to get confused with the characters as it goes along? At least it was more entertaining that way.

Shane Carruth's Upstream Color was good too. I actually liked it more than Primer. I absolutely loved Upstream Color as well - the premise, the story, all of it. I thought it was beautiful and I remember when I finally figured out what was going on, it was an awesome moment. That movie got a *lot* of hate, though. Anytime you make a movie that you actually have to think about and figure out, there are going to be people who claim it can't be understood and it's just pretentious. I watched Triangle twice, and the second watch is TOTALLY DIFFERENT than the first watch.  Same as with Fight Club. Primer is a glorious film. It's very impressive that one guy wrote, directed, starred in, and made the music for it, too. The music is pretty great. I've never been so impressed with a movie. Could not agree more. I found the score particularly compelling and was floored when I learned that was all done by the same person. It's seriously remarkable because, well, sometimes there are those indie films where you might say "wow that's really impressive for being made with such a low budget and with such a small crew", whereas with Primer I watched it (immediately hit play when it ended &amp; watched it again), thought damn that's one of the best films I've ever experienced and *then* I found out about how it was made and thought..."wow...I suddenly feel like a troglodyte". Jacobs Ladder The only thing that burns in Hell is the part of you that won't let go of life, your memories, your attachments. They burn them all away. But they're not punishing you, they're freeing your soul. So, if you're frightened of dying and you're holding on, you'll see devils tearing your life away. But if you've made your peace, then the devils are really angels, freeing you from the earth. Makes New York City look like the scariest place on earth I'm never going to get that damn hospital scene out of my head.  This movie was just the right amount of eerie.

My favourite part has to be that they kind of sort of kept it open for interpretation. You can chose to accept what they gave you as the truth, or you can go another way with it. 

Apparently it was also the first "horror" film to use the rapid head-turning thing to depict something otherworldly/demonic? I saw that movie when it came out in theaters in '90. I made the mistake of getting high beforehand. I almost lost my shit in the theater.  Take Shelter.  It was the first movie I'd seen in years that left me feeling really shaken at the end. Michael Shannon needs to be a super star. Maybe the best character actor going. I've never seen him in something where he didn't blow me away.  Boardwalk Empire was the Michael Shannon show for me I stood up and yelled at my TV at the end. I loved it, fantastic film.  Synecdoche New York. I know many people like the Preacher rant at the end, but my all time favorite quote from that movie was when Caden was first telling his theater crew what he wanted his play to be about.

&gt;I will be dying and so will you, and so will everyone here. That's what I want to explore. We're all hurtling towards death, yet here we are for the moment, alive. Each of us knowing we're going to die, each of us secretly believing we won't. Frailty. Discovered it in a cheap-o bin at Hastings.  Worth watching. Unless you're a demon. You're not a demon... are you? Dark City. When I saw it I was 9 or so. Thought it was a tippy dream until I saw the movie box at the store a couple years later. Yeah I searched for this one.  It has soooo many little gems that you just don't catch the first time around.  The song that plays in the memory flashes is so nuts.  It's actually the score backwards.  Kiefer Sutherland was pretty good, and the Strangers were pretty awesome.  I would have loved the original cut that didn't have the narration at the beginning by Dr. Schrieber.  I guess the studios made Proyas add it.   They did. The Director's Cut restores the narration back to natural points throughout the film and leaves the beginning silent, save for the ominous music. The original is good and all, but the DC is a friggin' masterpiece. Brazil 12 monkeys. Or get out of your gourd and go for time bandits. I'm all in for Brazil.   

(Best part: it's a Christmas movie) Have you seen his new one? I think it's called Zero Theorem. I think 12 Monkeys is a really underrated and tastefully complex movie. It's one of the most complete time travel movies in existence. By the end you feel like you're high as balls. I've seen this movie in every state of sobriety, and it never fails to blow my mind. Terry Gilliam is a genius.  
Edit: Changed Terri to Terry.  Thank you dpkristo! Perfect Blue It's good, but I think Satoshi Kon's other films are better.  Millennium Actress is my favorite, and Paprika is also great. I always felt he had too much to say for a single movie.  Specifically, though beautiful, the end of Paprika seems a bit drawn out to me.  Paranoia Agent on the other hand he had a whole series to hit so many different strange angles.


Fucking cancer. RIP. Predestination.

Please don't read anything about this movie, not even the comments below.  Just watch, come back and let me know what you thought.  Excellent mind fuck movie but there are spoilers if you continue into the chain. Stop reading now if you're going to watch it.  How do I know this isn't a spoiler?! OP said not to read more than the first but I did, and now I feel spoiled, this chain is a mindfuck in its self Hello person that couldn't help but keep going down the chain. I greet you with open arms. Get out of my head! El Topo or Greaser's Palace and The Holy Mountain Black mirror. *Not a movie, but a mini series for channel 4. Every episode is independent with no connection, there is only seven episodes.  Edit: Lots of spoilers in this thread, if you are new to the show, proceed with caution. Fuck yes but each episode is insanely depressing. I mean you really have to be in the right frame of mind for it. I just watched "White Christmas" yesterday and to be honest, while I thought it was brilliant, it really fucked up my day. The writing though, absolutely masterful. "White bear" is my favorite episode, because it just tears into our voyeuristic "upload anything" mentality but it's also the hardest to watch, I think. What am I saying, they're all hard to watch, the very first episode is about pig-fucking. Thats interesting I thought White Bear was the weakest of all the episodes. My favourite episode was "The Entire History of You" Ah! That's strange. I felt The Waldo Movement was the weakest, although that opinion might be unpopular. :) 
Be Right Back made me cry like a baby. Such a great series. I think Waldo was by far the weakest episode too.

"Be Right Back" was sad as fuck.  Did you think it was too blunt? I enjoyed the bluntness of it, the effect was to make the viewer complicit, and it was very uncomfortable to realize the feelings I had watching the show were the same feelings the show was condemning. Sure, it's not a new concept at all - the movie "Series 7" is one of my favorite of all with a similar message. 

I actually cried at the episode you mention - it really struck a chord given my personal history. I think a lot of us can relate to it, actually, in modern times. "White Bear" successfully pulled off the double twist:

"What is happening to that poor girl?"
"Oh crap, that poor girl is a horrible person..."
&lt;behind the scenes&gt;
"Oh... damn. I am the horrible person..." [Coherence](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sEceDz1Rodc) was very good.  And it's on Amazon Prime. Timecrimes. * Synecdoche, New York
* A scanner darkly
* Waking life
* Being John Malkovich
* The science of sleep
* Akira (more confusing than mind-bending?)


Bonus short: [The Interesting Ball](https://vimeo.com/110808221) 
 I STILL have no idea what was going on in A Scanner Darkly. Watch it again knowing how it ends. Aside from being one of my favorite visual movies ever, the craziness of the story goes from unbelievable to unbelievably awesome.  When you've seen it a few times and put it in the context of police militarization and the drug war, it's not that unbelievable. Which is the craziest part. A Scanner Darkly is criminally underrated and more relevant than ever before.  The Game Anything by David Fincher, really. Damn it I lost Damn you. It's been years.  I was winning for so long!  Really good the first time you see it. After the first time it's not nearly as amazing but still very good. Moon (pretty sure it can be found on Netflix)

EDIT: no longer on American Netflix, can still be found on Canadian Netflix Fully agreed, not what I expected *at all* from the movie. I guess I thought it was going to be another space movie, I wasn't expecting the psychological element. and Sam Rockwell delivered well beyond what I think most people expected from him. Especially considering he carries the entire movie on his own, pretty incredible. Kevin Spacey was out of this world, too.   I think he's an underrated actor. He's been really great in everything I've seen him in.  He's underrated by everyone but his fans, I think. The people love him, he's always a delight to see on screen. But he keeps getting these character roles and supporting roles. Moon was a big step for him, and he slam dunked it. credit: /u/magic_xylophone

Upstream Color - A woman is infected with a mind-control agent, and a bizarre lifecycle begins. Oblique, disturbing, romantic, and beautiful.


Pink Floyd: The Wall - Surreal extended music video with some freaky and beautiful animation.


Brazil - Creative and cynical dystopian satire with hallucinatory imagery.


Cabinet of Dr. Caligari (1920) - Silent film with amazing Expressionist design. The first ever psychological thriller.


The Triplets of Belleville - Elderly woman must rescue her grandson from gangsters. Unique animated style, hilarious visual gags, and almost no dialogue.


Angel Heart - Private detective hired to track a missing person faces murders, cults, and questions he'd rather not answer. A twisted Neo-noir.


Microcosmos - Insects do insect stuff. Gorgeous photography and brooding atmosphere.


Waking Life - Man can't wake from a dream where he converses with strangers on cosmic and spiritual topics, rendered with eye-popping rotoscope animation.


A Scanner Darkly - Animated in a similar style, a cop in the near future investigates a drug dealer himself. Mind-bending, contemplative, and totally captivating.


Coraline - Girl finds a door in the wall that leads to a version of her life where everything is wonderful and not what it seems. Creepy and magical, with great stop-motion.


Cartoon Noir - Eclectic anthology of creepy animated shorts. Living mannequins, alien abductions, and enticing illusions abound.


Baron Munchausen - Playing with artifice and reality, this 18th century folktale is bursting with wild imagery, absurd humor, and sharp satire.


The Game - Wealthy, disaffected man joins a mysterious Game and finds the stakes all too real. Stylish, tense, and twisty.


The Conformist - Italian fascist agent is sent to assassinate his former teacher. Subtle and subversive, with dazzling cinematography.


The Ninth Gate - Rare book expert sent to verify an occult tome contends with sinister forces. Moody and mysterious.


Repulsion - Nervous, repressed woman starts to fall apart. Surreal and paranoid.


Witness for the Prosecution - Veteran criminal lawyer takes a case with unseen complications. Funny, clever, and 
twisty.


Waltz with Bashir - Memories of the Israeli invasion of Lebanon visualized with sublime animation and somber reflection.


Heavenly Creatures - Two teenage girls in '50s New Zealand become romantically involved, with dire consequences. Vibrant and horrific.


Forbidden Planet - '50s spacefaring classic about a rescue mission that finds world-changing discoveries and terrible hidden power. A bit dated, but very cool.


Open Your Eyes - The original Spanish Vanilla Sky, and soooooo much better.


American Splendor - Giamatti kills it in this meta biopic of underground comics author Harvey Pekar.


Videodrome - Cronenberg's nightmarish mindfuck scifi of the VHS age.


The Pledge - A retiring detective goes to extreme lengths to catch a murderer. Challenging and unconventional.


Timecrimes - Spanish thriller / dark comedy about a chance encounter with a time machine and the unfortunate 
results. Impressive logical cohesion.


Ghost in the Shell - Beautifully animated future techno-thriller. Big influence on The Matrix.


Delicatessen - French dystopian dark comedy with cannibalism.


8 1/2 - Italian filmmaker reflects on his life and work through memories and fantasies.


Man on the Moon - Jim Carrey stars in biopic of Andy Kaufman, the ultimate troll.


Dark City: Director's Cut - DIRECTOR'S CUT, you hear me? The theatrical has opening narration that spoils the mystery. A dude wakes up with no memory and a dead hooker, and has to figure out what the fuck.


Enter the Void - Trip into the afterlife seen through the eyes of a young drug dealer. Gorgeous as can be, but a test of endurance.


The Fisher King - A guilt-wracked radio shock jock and a homeless would-be knight errant change each other's lives. Fun, moving, and surreal.


Triangle - A group of friends on a boat get knocked off course and encounter an abandoned cruise ship from which there is no escape. Mind-bending and horrific.


Barton Fink - A playwright is hired by a film studio and hits a mental block. Maybe his wacky neighbor can help! Or maybe everything is going to hell.


Paprika - Gorgeous anime about dream-hopping technology gone awry.


Perfect Blue - Same director as Paprika, but more of a psychological horror than sci-fi fantasy


Pi - A mathematician tries to crack the numeric codes behind human endeavors, and encounters more than he bargained for. Sharp, weird, and spooky.


The Fountain - In three disparate time periods, a man sets out to save a life, and confronts mortality and infinity.


Black Swan - A ballerina is pushed to the edge of sanity by the stress of her performance... or perhaps something more?


The Fall - An injured stuntman tells a young immigrant girl a story. Reality and fantasy are interwoven.


2001 - Basically THE mindfuck movie. It's slow, but the atmosphere and visuals are sublime.

Edit: formatting

 In the Mouth of Madness. Meta meta meta. Eternal Sunshine for the Spotless Mind. Jim Carrey at his best. Eternal Sunshine *of* the Spotless Mind.  
  
Great movie! Ah, my favorite genre. Here are some of my favorites:

* Donnie Darko
* Butterfly Effect
* Stranger than Fuction
* Magnolia
* Prestige
* Oldboy
* Black Swan
* The Game
* 2001: Space Odyssey
* Arlington Road
* The Usual Suspects
* Mulholland Drive
* 12 Monkeys
* eXistenZ
* Being John Malkovich
* The Machinist
* Memento

Some are more fucked up as others, i.e. Mulholland Drive will probably leave you wasted for the night.

And as a special recommendation I have **The Following** by Christopher Nolan. &gt; Stranger than Fuction

Is that the porn version? Stranger than friction Stranger Then Friction  Butterfly Effect fucked my shit up.  It's mind-fucking, and there are a lot of shocks that really kick you in the gut.  I think it was well-done but I know a lot of people who don't like the film. [deleted] PSA: dont watch this movie if you are 12 years old and want to sleep within a week of viewing it I don't think this movie gets enough credit. It's one of the most original twists I think I've ever seen. Memento is always good. Feels Like I Only Go Backwards Baby But Every Part of Me says Go Ahead I got my hopes up again Oh no, not again. Feels like we only go backwards, darlin  *trippy instrumentals* I know that you think you sound silly when you call my name But I hear it inside my head all day The selective capitalization here is really messing with my head. I remember that my uk version of the dvd had an easter egg which played the movie in chronological order, click on one of the polaroids as they drop down on the menu i think   I've had a terrible short term memory for ever. I recall seeing that movie with a group of people at home. Everyone was confused. I found it so great to finally have everyone else see it my way once. 

I remember specifically the part where he comes to with a half empty bottle of booze in his hand and his first thought is, "I don't *feel* drunk. What am I supposed to do with this?" Am I chasing him, or is he chasing me? OK, so what am I doing?

*sees Dodd also running*

Oh, I'm chasing this guy.

*Dodd shoots at Leonard*

No... he's chasing **me**. This was the best scene! I just couldn't imagine suddenly becoming aware in a situation like that. Oh that's awesome. I've always been annoyed by the people that go "like, duh it's just a movie backwards, like big deal..." 
To me the most stunning aspect of the film was not the "reveal" not the "aha moment" - -it was the fact that the experience of watching it *felt* so much like having that condition, he takes the audience and puts them in that head space, really puts them in the character's shoes. 'It's such a beautiful day' is more mind blowing but very good That movie is beautiful. I think it's on Netflix now. Paprika, anime movie but a good movie. i've watched this so many times and it's STILL got me fucked up. the original Inception. End of EvangelionEDIT: Yeah. You should watch the actual series first. 14 year olds better watch out. It's 2015 after all. Binge watched the entire series and then this movie in two days. I've never been the same.  Although you have to watch the entire series too The Machinist is a pretty good mind fuck gem.  Went out to the bars one night with a friend of mine who's had a pretty rough life looks like it. We're chatting up these girls and one of them turns to him and says "You look like the guy who plays Batman!" I can see his confidence reach an all time high right before she says "Except more like The Machinist." Poor guy.  Yeah.  Pretty insulting considering if Christian Bale needs to look like he's on the downswing of his life, that's exactly how he'll look.  The guy's a master at shaping his body for specific roles. To run the full gamut watch The Machinist, then Batman Begins. He went from 120 pounds to 230 pounds in a few months.

[Here's a link with all of the punishment he's put his body through.](http://www.peoplestylewatch.com/people/stylewatch/package/article/0,,20768373_20773517,00.html) Jesus, how do people not feel terrible saying shit like that? Mulholland Drive   Or anything by David lynch!  I'm so looking forward to the next season of Twin Peaks. Mr. Nobody. http://www.imdb.com/title/tt0485947/
 That movie left me feeling empty for days (OG) Total Recall Enter the void - a perfect movie to fuck your mind with ;) Something something Guru Laghima It fucks with your mind and then you see a lot of fucking Event Horizon.

It's good for when you don't want to sleep either. Event Horizon is the best Doom/40k movie we're ever going to get This is probably the best explanation of that mov-I CAN *FEEL* THE WARP OVERTAKING ME! ^It ^is ^a ^*good* ^pain. Libera te tutemet ex inferis... No one said Eraserhead yet?
 In heaven, everything is fine. In heaven, everything is fine. You've got your good things and I've got mine. Just cut 'em up like regular chickens. [The Usual Suspects](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oiXdPolca5w) Roger Ebert hated this one and I always knew that something was weird about it until I actually read his review.

It's SOOOO hard to follow for so long and then the twist comes and you realize that none of it fucking mattered anyways! Because of the twist! 

I mean, it left you satisfied after you left the theater, but it makes replay value almost shit. In my mind at least.

EDIT: Here's the Ebert review [that I refereced.](http://www.rogerebert.com/reviews/the-usual-suspects-1995) The twist added replay value to me. Without the twist at the end, it's just a mediocre crime movie. Whenever I rewatch it I always find new hints and foreshadowing. SPOILERS My favorite example is when Agent Kujan is sitting on his desk and talking to Verbal, and you can see him staring at the bottom of the mug. For somebody watching the movie for the first time, they would've never noticed, but a second, or third (or in my case tenth) time viewer notices.
[Agent Kujan unknowingly helping Verbal.](http://unrealitymag.bcmediagroup.netdna-cdn.com/wp-content/uploads/2014/07/THE-USUAL-SUSPECTS-coffee.png)  Truman Show Good afternoon, good evening and good night! I watched that movie without seeing the trailer and missed the first minute of it where Ed Harris explains the premise of the movie. I got to the theater late. I was completely blown away and on the edge of my seat.  [Pi](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oQ1sZSCz47w) I got really stoned one night and watched this on Netflix thinking it was going to be a documentary on the number pi. It fucked my mind pretty hard. Sounds like the absolute best way to experience this movie. Pi was phenomenal. I get migraines, so that scene at the end in the bathroom hit close to home. Anyone mention Vanilla Sky? I was so happy with that movie. I caught it a while back, with no idea what it was or what it was about. No idea that there was anything there but what was at face value. Which is a rare and wonderful way to watch a movie like that.  The Jacket.  Oldboy (2003). Please watch this film. I watched when I was really stoned :p It fucks with your mind.  2001: A Space Odyssey Requiem For a Dream. The biggest mindfuck of *Requiem for A Dream*, which no one ever talks about, it's that Darren Aronofsky got a damn good dramatic performance out of a Wayans brother.  THIS MOVIE. You only need to watch it once and never again. Just fucked There must be something wrong with me. I enjoyed this movie and am not opposed to watching it again. Everyone else I know seemed mentally scarred by it and they all say "never again," which is like the universal response to Requiem for a Dream. I saw with a friend the first time, then made my dad watch it with me 3 months later, then made my then fiance watch it with me about 4 years later. Both of the 2 (dad and fiance) looked at me with a wtf look on their faces afterwards. And I'd still watch it again....damn good movie it is! I've owned a director's cut DVD since it was available. I've seen the movie more times than I can count. 

Most people are scarred by the drug use and their effects when the actual story is about 4 people having hopes and dreams and having them die. I think the ending is overshadowed too much by the climax.  Yeah this movie will fuck your head up.

But on the bright side, it makes you REALLY want to not do drugs.  The Man From Earth Fight Club, Edward Norton is astounding. My mind hasn't been fucked like that since grade school  Just watched that and holy fuck nuggets was I not expecting that. Now you gotta watch it again. It's even better the second time. I went in to the movie knowing the spoiler and kept wondering how any of it really worked. Fantastic film. I'm sure I'll enjoy it even more once I re-watch it. Le Moustache 
It's a french movie but you can get it with subtitles. The most mind-fucked I've ever been after watching a movie.  The Prestige will leave you thinking for a bit, great movie. One of my favorites. Along with Inception and Memento. Can't wait to see interstellar. 


Christopher Nolan is incredible. WHY DIDN'T YOU SEE IT IN THEATERS!??!?!?!?!?! Definitely agree with this sentiment. You'll still get the philosophical aspects of it, but many of the scenes just won't be quite as awesome in the way that they were without seeing it in theaters. I mean holy shit, quite a few of those were just fucking incredible. Saw it in IMAX, the damn seats were shaking from the bass it was incredible. I was lucky enough to see it in 70MM IMAX. One of my most incredible movie viewing experiences. The audio made it an astounding experience. I could feel the massive bass from the organ music vibrating my bones, it was awesome. Interstellar blew me away. You're going to love it.  ***DO NOT GO GENTLE INTO THAT GOOD NIGHT*** **[ORGAN INTENSIFIES]** Interstellar was oddly philosophical.  

solid 9/10 Yeah I wasn't quite expecting it.  I went into that movie with hardly no expectations.  I didn't even know what it was about.  It was very philosophical and posed some interesting moral questions.  The ending felt kind of forced, but I still enjoyed it nonetheless.   [Audition](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OC3jCY4h0H0)

[Se7en](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=J4YV2_TcCoE)

[Blue Velvet](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bWr4JvAWF20)

[Sorcerer](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3BDbIzovuos)

[Fight Club](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SUXWAEX2jlg)

[American Psycho](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5YnGhW4UEhc)

[Cube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HYoTGYT0-I4) [deleted] KFC chicken. Blue Velvet is fan-fucking-tastic, but I feel it is less of a mind fuck then some of David Lynch's other films. If we are talking mind fuckery, I'd go with Mulholland Drive. Seconding Blue Velvet &amp; anything by Lynch. Audition is great too. Enemy. I still don't understand it. A Scanner Darkly  Upstream Color from the guy who did Primer.  It's on Netflix.  The less I say about it, the better.  Also on Netflix, Silver Tongues.  Go in blind, it's worth it.
Edit: Sorry about Silver Tongues, it was streaming not long ago, I promise. Arlington Road Mothman Prophecy screwed with me.  Serpent and the Rainbow is a good 80's one, very under appreciated and outstanding mind bender slash scary as hell flick. Inland Empireeven if you saw other David Lynch films and thought they were mindfucks, watch this and never quite recover. Hard Candy The Room. oh hi mark You're tearing me apart, Lisa! I did not do it I did not hit her I did naaaaht.  cheep, cheep, cheep, cheep. I used to know a girl, she had a dozen guys. One of them found out about it... beat her up so bad she ended up at a hospital on Guerrero Street.

**Ha ha ha ha...** what a story, Mark... Shutter Island One of the hardest scenes to watch in that film. And I'm pretty desensitized from the Internet. But when he finds his kids...so hard to comprehend that pain.   Oh man. That scene made me so uncomfortable. I have an insatiable man crush on leo. I fucking love Dicaprio. And the look on his face and the sound of his voice in that scene fucking shook me.  I thought this movie was so creative. You think you've got it all figured out, but by the end of the movie you're questioning your own judgement and sanity. My buddy was like "dude we gotta see this." So when I saw the trailer I was like "dude I can already tell you what's gonna happen. The doctor is crazy and is gonna trick him into getting commited." Welp, that ending had me shitting bricks.  Cloud Atlas had me mulling over it for weeks after I watched it. Primer. at least you could understand the plot in Memento after watching it.  [Enemy] (http://m.imdb.com/title/tt2316411/)
-
Came out march this year, rewatched it 3 times. Not to be be picky but unless you time travel, it wasn't released March this year ;) Haha obviously I'm not ready for 2015 http://www.imdb.com/title/tt2316411/releaseinfo?ref_=tt_ov_inf+

It shows it realease according to where you are from. Just FYI, many films in USA get released later than elsewhere. That's why you often see popular films popping up on torrents faster than you see them in your local cinema. It's not because someone stole some backwards copies. The films simply were released faster in other countries, often in The Netherlands.
 (GotSomethingToSay was pointin out that it is now 2015, so March of this year has not yet occured.) ^ This. Thanks for clarifying for me. The ending is the biggest WTF I've ever watched. But after doing some research, then it made sense. And also I realized how great of an actor Gyllenhaal is. Go and see Nightcrawler if you haven't already. Might just be his best performance. Yeah, I watched it like a couple of days ago. His acting was really creepy and he played a psychopath very well. He intentionally didn't blink a lot to give more of a creepy vibe for the movie. Aside from Prisoners and Zodiac, that's probably my favorite movie of his.  Please explain to me :( It's difficult to explain. If you are pretty confused by the ending - or the movie in general - there are good explanations of the actual meaning of the movie out there.  I looked up some a while ago, but they were a bit meh. Perhaps they've gotten better. Or perhaps I want the 'real' explanation rather than speculation, which I'll likely never get (the director has said as much)  There are many videos on youtube that try to explain the movie.  My favorite explanation. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=v9AWkqRwd1I Thanks will check it out :)  so what is going on with spiders?  Symbolism for his unconscious mind and sex addiction. At the end, you see the spider cower, meaning the spider feared him. And where was he going? He was gonna go to that feeaky sex place, meaning the cycle starts over again, going back to tne beginning of the movie. He still is a sex addict. Also, it was only one person, he kinda had a split personality.  I was gona mention this til i seen you have. I only got it after watching a YouTube video explaining it.. Then watched again to confirm  Haha.  
Still not sure if I have confirmed enough. There isn't really an explanation for what happens at the end...  the youtube explanation is pretty decent Seconded. It was extremely thorough. 

 Check out Chris Stuckmann's analysis of the film.  Pretty in depth and makes a lot of sense. Yes there is. If you understand the overall theme of the movie and the motif with spiders you will understand it. Did you get it after the 3rd time? It was good. I didn't rewatch it but no, I didn't get it  No! Had to watch an [explanation review] (http://youtu.be/v9AWkqRwd1I)  .
Even then the comments are debating the actual true meaning behind the plot.   
 I think it's a movie to be interpreted, not explained. Videos like that are helpful if you can't make heads or tails of it, but I don't think it's the kind of thing where you can point to any one explanation as the "correct" one.  That guy does provide some pretty good evidence though.  Obviously there's death of the author and everything, but I still think his is probably the closest I've seen to a logical explanation. I'm not saying there's anything wrong with his explanation, just that it's better to treat these sort of things as jumping off points for your own interpretations than to just watch and stop at, "Yeah, that's probably what everything means." 

(Again, maybe that interpretation works perfectly for you, and that's absolutely fine, but I think movies like that are more meaningful, and more fun, if you search for your own interpretations.)  I agree completely.  I just enjoy the video because it seems like a very nonsensical movie, but he's managed to find something that does make a lot of sense, even if it's not the final absolute 'meaning' of the film. Totally agree, maybe thats the fun part of it. I'm seem to recall both Gyllenhaal and the director confirming there is a correct explanation, and their comments echoed my understanding of it completely. Haha good to know. Thanks for the link! the explanations are great but one huge thing is bothering me which I still can't figure out: what is the significance of the motel and why they met an hour outside of town. Everything else falls into place very, very well. I also wonder if there are clues to what's actually happening vs. allegory/internal struggles. Can you give a quick tl:dr on what the gist of it is? :)  Damn, I just posted this movie. There's a great breakdown of this film found on YouTube. Love that ending..... Good ass movie. Super weird though. I quite enjoyed it. This looks really good. Anyone interested in this movie, do NOT watch the fucking trailer, shows the whole movie Wow this movie was just something else..  I wasn't sure if anyone was going to mention this one.  I had to look up the what the ending meant This needs to be way higher up.  March last year.
I'm sorry... i had to watch more youtube videos explaining this movie than the actual movie. Awesome movie.  Watch it once: wtf?  Read what it's about, watch it again: genius. Totally the best mind-fuck movie I've seen as of late. Based on a Saramago book? Fucking sold! Im surprised this isn't at the top, biggest mind fuck I've ever seen. And if you want to have a wtf feeling, this is definitely the one. Can't believe this is so low on the list, but yep Finally someone mentions this amazing film.  Was scrolling through to check if this overlooked gem had been mentioned by someone. The best thing about it for me was how at first it didn't seem to make sense, but after watching it, it stayed on my mind, and my brain started subconsciously putting the pieces together - and I realised that it all fit together perfectly. Very elegant and deep little film, and also unnerving to the extreme. I spent 3 weeks trying to figure out what the hell i just saw. It is a fantastic movie until the end. I understand what they were going for, but it just didn't work for me.  Acting was great, though. Did you fuck my wife? Time traveler? &gt; Came out March this year...

Almost 72 hours in the new year &amp; we're already time traveling... Back to the Future 2 was right all along.  Mr. Nobody, starring Jared Leto. That movie made my head hurt I just watched this. What a winding, roller coaster of a movie. Good mind-fuck movie. I never really figured it out until the end, then it all made sense. Try Cloud Atlas, also very interesting in its own way. Yes! And it's on Netflix. The amount of work that went into that movie just have been insane.  Easily one I the best movies ever made in the past ten years in my opinion. After watching a third time it's finally clear. Maybe I have to watch it again.  It didn't really hold my attention. It's cause it literally doesn't seem to have a plot the first time through. I was just thinking of this! Personally, I love a good timey-wimey narrative. Good pick! Well, I have been passing it by every time but thinking about watching it. I guess I'll give it a try I liked this movie a lot. Super charming and touching, but still really sci fi. That fucking Brazilian boy and his boiled eggs.  I found it too dull to get into. Should I give it another shot? The director's cut goes waaaay more in depth in all the story lines. Made me buy more indie films afterwards... An old one Jacobs Ladder. That's the top comment. Good one.  You experience his mind fuck, that's for sure. Read the book. Jacob's* Ladder Two of my favorite cerebral / "mind fuck" movies are:
Synecdoche, New York
Donnie Darko
 Donnie Darko is a great movie. Jake Gyllenhaal has played some seriously dark characters including his new movie, Nightcrawler. I second Synodoche.  It's an odd film. God I haven't thought of that movie in forever! Watched it when it came out, very well designed film might watch it again i think its a masterpiece, i recommend it all the time. saying watch it alone and watch it a second time This is a film that completely exhausts you. You don't even have enough energy to go take a nap afterward. This is a film that completely exhausts you. You don't even have enough energy to go take a nap afterward. Donnie Darko needs to be up way higher on this list!  I watched Synecdoche, New York in a film class when I was in college.  I had tears streaming down my face about 2/3 of the way through and I couldn't even point to why. Donnie darko is the best movie ever made Donnie Darko is easily my favorite movie of all time but I wouldn't consider it the best movie ever made.  I was about to watch stnecdoche new York Synecdoche, New York is masterpiece that more people should watch Took this long to see someone mention Donnie Darko. I've seen almost everything on this thread and the only one I didn't "get" immediately was Donnie Darko.See also: Chinatown. (semi-related) Fucking Donnie Darko, too little mind fuck, too much bullshit. It's incomprehensible on purpose and pretentious as all hell as a result. &gt; It's incomprehensible on purpose

Isn't that a good thing if it's meant to be a mind fuck? It's not a mind fuck if it has nothing to fuck you with. It's so retardedly incomprehensible that it shears it's own dick. &gt; It's so retardedly incomprehensible that it shears it's own dick.

Did your brain burn out or something while watching it? Not at all. It's just a massive waste of time. Fair enough. I found it incomprehensible until I read between the lines and looked up explanations of the movie. They could have done a better job explaining things, but that's how the cookie crumbles with movies sometimes. Exactly. And that's how it is with everyone that watches it. I can get it if someone just enjoys it for the same of it being entertaining aside from understanding the plot,  but everyone who watches it pretends to understand it on their first viewing which creates this pretentious air I can't stand.  But that's just people being stupid... Not really anything to do with the movie. While I hate the fandom surrounding Donnie Darko more than the actual movie, I still hate the movie itself because of how incoherent it is.  cube 1, 2 &amp; 3 As a friend of mine explained it to me:

"Cube 1 is great. Cube 2 is absolute shit, until you watch Cube Zero, which is so amazing that it makes Cube 2 actually pretty good." The Cube trilogy is a lot like the Starship Troopers trilogy, if you think about it.  even if you don't like the genre it's worth it for the scene when the guy with the cane and false eye comes in and steals the show. but the fact that they explained quite a bit of what happened in the first film was amazing, one of the best twists ever. I don't get it. Also, what order should I watch it on? I'm doing this tonight Cube -&gt; Hypercube -&gt; Cube Zero. Release order is the best choice for nearly everything. *Star Wars* being the notable exception.  I had this conversation with friends yesterday. I think anyone who hasn't seen any of them and knows nothing about the story, characters, relationships (you know what I'm getting at - the twist), is best served watching them in release order.

For everyone else in the world, yeah, I say start at episode 1 (or as early in the sequence as you intend to watch).  4-5-2-3-6 is supposed to be a good order to watch the films. It keeps the mystery and reveals late enough, and introduces the characters well.

Throw in part 1 if you are interested, but it doesn't add anything to the story.  If you only watch cube 1 and then cube zero, you would be fine. Honestly I don't feel like cube 2 added much to the whole story, and admittedly it wasn't great (for me).

If you want to get the full experience, go for the gold with all three in the order of 1, 2, 0. Cube 2 is my favorite movie of all time for unintentional hilarity. Watch the deleted scenes / making of.  I was going to say. I think I made it 5 minutes before I started laughing. I loved the first, wish they stopped. Would have been a much bigger cult classic as a solo peice.   No. Just cube 1. But the ending of Cube Zero... I have to keep my eyes closed for the first few minutes of the first Cube. After that it's ok to watch! Not to be confused with [CUBE](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4aGDCE6Nrz0) Ah yes, the Cube series. My first foray into mindfuckedness. The first one is the best one, imho Do you mean the Jim Henson movie?  I was looking for it to have been suggested and was very surprised that the horror/suspense movies were suggested instead.  They're entertaining movies but nothing like the mindfuck of Jim Henson's "The Cube," which is so full of symbolism and metaphors that you can watch it several times in a row and still feel like you're missing something. I didn't know about Henson's movie - I'll look it up. I was talking about [this one](http://www.imdb.com/title/tt0123755/). Ah, Cube. The best worst movie ever made.  Fuck this movie. 10/10. 1 yes, not so much 2 &amp; 3 IMO. Elevated, a short film by the same director, is pretty mind-fucky as well. I just finally stumbled upon the Cubes and couldn't believe I'd never heard of this trilogy before. The first is the best by far, but I like them as a whole too. These movies didn't give me a good mindfuck til the third. That one destroyed my work for a few weeks. There are more?!!!! Was there a Cube 3? Or do you mean Cube Zero? Agh those movies scared the shit out of me as a kid.  Are cube 2 and cube 0 any good?

Love the first There was no Cube 3.  The 3rd movie made was titled Cube Zero, and was a prequel to the first 2. There was also no cube 1. It was simply titled Cube.

*(tips fedora)*

EDIT: and it was Cube... sheesh! I thought the second one was Hypercube. [Cube 2: Hypercube](http://www.imdb.com/title/tt0285492/) 

We were both correct.  [deleted] No it's the one after the second. Clockwork Orange I'm not sure that I would call a clockwork orange a mindfuck. Fucked up, sure, but it's fairly straightforward.  Are you kidding? A Clockwork Orange could get a mindfuck rating based on the visuals or Wendy Carlos score alone. Watched it when I was younger and didn't understand really anything. Watched it again a few years later and now stands as one of my favorite films.  I first caught it after waking up at 4AM from a dream and randomly turning on the TV.  All the retro 70's psychedelic futurism in it is so gross, it rules Everyone says Requiem for a Dream is "the best movie they never want to see again," but for me, this is the movie that first comes to mind when I think of that. Maybe I was a little too young when I watched it, I don't know, but I remember it well, think it was a good movie, and definitely never want to watch it again. I actually love watching A Clockwork Orange- it's so undeniably masterful in ways few movies are- stuff like the editing, the visual composition, the set design and costumes actually make it easy to watch because they're so... *Kubrick*.  Watching Requiem for a Dream literally feels like I'm in a nightmare. I adore Aronofsky's films but they slam you into a bad time. I absolutely agree. Clockwork is terrifying in the ultra violent aspect, but requiem just shows how easy it is for any addiction kill your spirit as a person.  Yes, yes, and YES. 

A Clockwork Orange* I've only seen it once &amp; absolutely loved it. I think I really need to watch it again to fully appreciate it though. I've watched it multiple times, every time you notice more and more. It's worth watching over again. One of my favorite movies Yeah, maybe I'll do that this week! I watched it alone, knowing nothing about it so I was confused in the beginning so I think another watch would be great.   this should be higher  This ought to be at the top. I watched this in two parts and at first was like "this fucked me up" but then I learned to appreciate it  *I'm siiiiingin' in the rain...* SPOILERS

When I originally saw the movie it was pirated off the internet and the ending stopped with the main guy stuck in bed forever listening to the Bach and it made you feel so good that the guy had what was coming to him.  That was the end.  Then I saw another one where the ending was him getting out (aka same as before but 2min longer and he got away).  I believed the first ending for years until I saw it again randomly.  Totally blew my mind. My friend who works in Hollywood says Kubrick used to do things like this to fuck with people.  Happen to anyone else? The book is a billion times better than the movie. If I had only seen the movie and not read the book, I would have thought it's an average shitty artistic movie you can see every Friday night when you turn the TV on at 11 pm. But having read the book and written a literary analysis of it (so really having pondered about the meanings and themes in it) and then watching the movie... I wish I hadn't. And now everytime someone says they enjoy the movie I'm like, "you've experienced nothing yet. Read the book."

So read the book. Nothing about that film is average Nah. That's the point where they should have taken Kubrick's drugs away. The Cell (2000)

It's pretty damn bizzare. All the trippy scenes in this film are based on real paintings and for some reason that's my favorite part about this movie. This movie was fantastic and needs way more cred here. This movie was definitely trippy.. I can't imagine it being written without the use of LSD. Yes! Yes!  I forgot about that one!! That is an excellent film. Received bad reviews though. I see people do not agree with me. I suggest if you want to know more on why it's kind of a silly thing you watch Nostalgia Critics review of the Cell ok, I'll take a look at it. Because it's not an excellent film. I loved this movie and the visuals. The plot is great. I don't know why it doesn't get more love.  Something something Philip Seymour Hoffman suspended nude by flesh hooks over his recently-drowned victim. And then he begins jerking off... What's not to love? Ahem, Vincent D'Onofrio, Hoffman just doesn't have enough freak in him. Yeah that is a weird one! Oh yes! Love how it shows a mans deepest thoughts come to life.  The Matrix or Donnie Darko. I'm still trying to figure out how exactly does one suck a fuck. Chut up! Go back to china. Bitch. Hey. Porky pig. I hope you get molested. "I like your boobs." -Seth Rogan Go back to China, bitch. Elizabeth could probably tell us "What's a fuckass?" "when can i squeeze one out?" Not until 8th grade. Donnie! Not until the 8th grade  In college I figured out 3 ways:

1.) A dude everybody hates - just a huge fuck - gets a blowjob.

2.) Any part of a penis or vagina is sucked during intercourse by a third party. They're sucking the fuck.

3.) I forget. I was stoned a lot back then. 

 Sometimes I doubt your commitment to Sparkle Motion. If you read the ama from double dick dude last year you will get an idea of the logistics we will not have....this....at the dinner table You want me to tell you?! I didn't realize for the longest time that they were real life siblings Don't be such a fuckass! Do you want me to tell you? Maybe http://www.reddit.com/r/creampie I like yer boobs. (Seth rogan laugh) Donnie Darko fucked me up. Is Donnie Darko a horror film, or is just creepy? It's not "suddenly appear and make lous noises", nor is it gory Saw scary. So I guess that leaves creepy. That fucking [bunny.](http://qph.is.quoracdn.net/main-qimg-9a03c24596a76afc45fd68e2be156b8d?convert_to_webp=true) his name is frank, i have a tattoo of him. Would you mind showing? :D Yeah, we need a pic.  
Totally. It's a psychological horror. Not gory or like a typical cliche horror movie, but it is creepy and it fucks with your mind. Both. It just REALLY fucks with your head. I saw it a few days ago and it instantly became my favorite movie of all time. It's such a brilliant concept. I had to spend 45 minutes online afterward to find out what the hell had happened, but damn was it worth it. *(More to the point: Yes, it does have some jump scares, but it's not exactly horror, it's mainly psychological mindfuckery.)*

**EDIT:** MAKE SURE YOU SEE THE DIRECTOR'S CUT! The original doesn't have anything in it that explains what's going on, so you can at least *somewhat* follow along in the director's cut whereas I imagine you'd just be entirely clueless when watching the original. Do you happen to know if the one on Netflix is the director's cut? If it helps you can tell the director's cut by pages of the Philosophy of Time Travel appearing on screen between scenes.  They explain some of the terminology and ideas presented in the movie. Like 'minipulated living' etc. I don't see it being available on Netflix in the US (or anywhere else on [Can I Stream It?](http://www.canistream.it/search/movie/donnie%20darko), for that matter). Just check the movie length--the original cut is 113 minutes (1 hour 53 minutes) long, whereas the director's cut is 133 minutes (2 hours 13 minutes) long. I own the deluxe blu ray/dvd edition. I recently forced my buddy to watch it on his Netflix and I can confirm that it is not the director's cut. You should definitely still watch it, though. It's still my favorite movie either way, but it is worth it to see the director's cut. It's neither, it's a "I'm in tenth grande and want to be different so I pretend to like it" film. Don't get me wrong, it's not a bad flick, but everyone on reddit gets all jacked up about that movie. Dude, try watching it stoned. I had no fucking idea what was going on. Then I realized Seth Rogan was in it. "I like your boobs..."

Flawless performance. 10/10.   Make sure you see the director's cut for Donnie Darko!!!! The original version cuts out all of the things that make the movie even remotely make sense.  Donnie Darko is more fun if you watch it with some friends and discuss what each of you thought happened.
The cannon explanation by the creators is basically 'SCI-Fi weirdness, don't worry about it' I found [this explanation](http://www.donniedarko.org.uk/explanation/) (ABSOLUTELY DO NOT CLICK UNLESS YOU WANT THE MOVIE TO BE ENTIRELY SPOILED FOR YOU) to be the complete canon explanation. The author sums everything up and even has a page devoted to debunking other possible theories. Just seconding the warning on this, knowing what was going on in this movie sort for ruined it for me.

Its still a favorite, but i liked it better when it kept me guessing 

 It's just meant to be a different experience for every individual.  You couldn't possibly figure out the "real" point or meaning of the movie. It's open to your own interpretation DISCLAIMER: DON'T WATCH DONNIE DARKO IF YOU SUFFER FROM DEPRESSION, ANXIETY, OR PTSD. lol  This is a somewhat fair point. I have bipolar II (previously diagnosed/treated as depression) and I can definitely see why you'd say that, but I saw this just a couple days ago and it's now my favorite movie of all time. It's just brilliant. But yeah, if you're very sensitive about any of the mentioned illnesses then be careful. As someone who's struggled with mental instability, I find comfort in movies like this. Same thing with music. I actually listen to the Donnie Darko soundtrack a lot and it has the same effect as the movie on its own. When I can relate, I feel great.  I had to watch Donnie Darko *twice* before I even *began* to understand what the hell was going on.  Very well done movie, still not even sure if I fully comprehend it all.

Plus, Jake Gyllenhall (pretty sure he plays Donnie, right?) has just the right face in this that when he does that smile sometimes, it's just... Unsettling.  If you liked Jake's performance, you should definitely see Nightcrawler. I really feel like Darko is overrated. **Chut up!** It is Hungry Hungry Hippos! The two movies I could watch over and over again. Everything is perfect; the story, the characters, and the SOUNDTRACKS! You gotta watch the directors cut though. There is so much detail in it that REALLY blows your mind Donnie Darko is amazing!  Both great movies but the Matrix pretty simple compared to how much of a mind fuck Donnie Darko is. That's very true. Donnie Darko is so bad. I watched it twice in two days, looked up the explantion, and gave up. I wanted to like it but it was just shit pretending to be clever. I felt the same way. Im glad someone does. Everyone i talk to praise it like its the best movie ever created. It literally felt like the entire point of the movie was just to be edgy. It was laughably bad. That's because there is no "real" explanation. It's up to you to interpret it however you want. It's meant to be a different experience for everyone. Sorry you didn't like it. Maybe try watching it without analyzing it too much. Apparently "I Am the Walrus" was written to fuck with college kids that were analyzing beatles songs. Whether that's somewhat the case with this movie or not, I still fucking love it.  See thats what i thought, but after watching the directors cut which features pages from that time book he has, its awfully suggestive that hes switched timelines somehow and needs to get back. I dont know, maybe that ruined the movie for me. I can't even say this definitively, but I'll try lol. Just keep in mind that it is a science fiction movie. Basically, the jet engine somehow warped from another period of time and created a new tangent. Donnie has to complete a series of tasks with the guidance of Frank in order to save the original or "real" tangent. Everything Frank tells him to do creates a chain of events that leads to things essentially going the way they were supposed to. Thus, Donnie saves the world. That's all I can really explain and who knows if it even makes sense. Since it is Sci Fi, they are kind of allowed to include things that don't make sense or are otherwise impossible. It's also completely plausible that Donnie is just fucked in the head and none of it really happened. That's the beauty of it, I suppose. Sorry if none of this helps, but it is my favorite movie and I want people to enjoy it haha  That the explanation i read! i guess i can see how people would like it, and it was kinda quick of me to just say its shot. I guess it just didnt hit me that hard, thanks for the reply! The directors cut of Donnie Darko was a lot weirder but made a lot more  sense.  donnie darko most overrated shit movie out there. 

it seems everyone sees it when teenager and thinks is amazeballs or some shit.  I just saw it a couple days ago and I think it's absolutely fucking brilliant. The plot is incredible and has nothing to do with teen angst IMO if you read the [full explanation](http://www.donniedarko.org.uk/explanation/). It's bizarre enough that you don't fully understand what's going on and have to look it up afterward, but still coherent enough that you can follow along and aren't completely lost. I agree that it's really just a teen angst movie but I still think it's the best teen angst movie. Gummo That movie is so incredibly hard to watch. I need to shower after seeing it.  Life is great. Without it, you'd be dead. you might be a fan of sadistik
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HWg1ja6qFzw right on

 So I just started cooking at this restaurant and the owner told me that Chloe Sevigney comes in and eats from time to time. I fucking can't wait to feed Chloe fucking Sevigney. God damn. It's an open kitchen and the place is pretty small. I'm trying to think of how to flirt with her without looking like a total ass so I'll probably just say nothing and smile like slightly less than a total ass. The Killing Room is a real mindfuck starring Chloe Sevigney. Gummo was beautiful in a really disturbing way. It definitely fucked me up but I loved it anyway The first time I watched Gummo I thought "that was a strange but good movie" and then over the course of the next 15 minutes of reflecting upon it I felt my soul die and I didn't know what to do with myself for the rest of the day. I would highly recommend it though.  The worst fucking movie I've ever seen. Makes my stomach hurt just thinking about it. Came here to say this! I hate fuckin rabbits... Rabbits are queers..~! Always got shit on dey selves... Fuck yes! I bought it and it was so worth it.  I told my wife she had to watch it before I'd marry her... I wasn't sure she completely understood what she was getting herself into. So, now I'm sure. I am glad that I not the only person who has seen this movie. Not glad that I have seen it, just glad I am not the only one who has. Amazing soundtrack too. Best use of a Sleep song ever.  Gummo freaked me out for real the first time I saw it. I was about 17, an Australian watching it &amp; thinking, there's no way all this shit is completely made up. I started losing the faith after that.  Yeah, this is a mindfuck. You just are left so bare and empty after you watch it. It's incredible. The characters are just so real.  Save Gummo for last, so that you can discover that none of the other movies here really did fuck with your mind very much at all. Jesus Christ this is one of the most ridiculous movies I've ever seen. however I thought it was excellent.  Lucky Number Slevin, a bit old but one of my unexpected favorites This is actually my favorite movie. I watched it a few years ago, and then again recently and I had forgotten what had happened so it was like a whole new movie. Good pick! I had to scroll too far to see this. Great mind fuck film. Also came here to say this, I think I have showed this movie to many friends over the last few years; and for some reason nobody ever heard of it. Weird, considering the cast actually. Just made one of my buddies watch this recently and he asked how he had never heard of it.  One of my faves.  This should be upvoted higher I love this movie! Watching it a second and third time is so good, because you can understand every single move.  One of my favorite movies... except when i try to suggest it to people.

"What's it about?"
"Josh Hartnett has a shitty couple days."
"And?"
"And I can't really say much more." Someone will probably argue that it's not a mind-fuck movie, but Funny Games (US) is one of those thrillers that will make you paranoid the next time your neighbor wants to borrow something the most disturbing movie i have ever seen  Most disposal problems can be fixed with a few turns of an allen wrench on the underside of the disposal (it manually fixes jams). Most people seem to not know this and call plumbers instead.  Recently when mine stopped working I discovered the reset button on the bottom as well. Saved me a lot of money and time.  My disposal wasn't working in my apartment and I've been too lazy to place a work order. You just saved me some human interaction. Thank you. Ask your hospital if the have a prepaid discount for most of their procedures. We did not have maternity insurance when my wife got pregnant with BOTH our kids. I went to the billing office 6 months before she was due in the nicest hospital in our town. When I asked how much labor and delivery was, I was quoted in excess of 12k. . . I simply asked if there was a discount if I paid in advance, I was quoted $2900. I made payments for 6 months (about 500/month) and walked into the hospital on the day she went into labor . . delivered, stayed for 2 days (standard). and walked out. Never received a bill. Repeated the process 2 years later for our second child ( I think the bill was 3100$ that time).

I was POSITIVE I would receive another bill. but we never have.
 I used to work in medical billing. There were hospitals that would reduce the bill by 90% if you paid in cash. I don't really care that much but a regular customer at the mcdonalds I work at has learned how to beat the system:
Sausage egg mcmuffin: $2.99
Sausage mcmuffin: $1
Round egg ala carte (on the side): $0.79
He pays $1.79 and puts the egg on his muffin himself. Saves him $1.20 every time.  pays to be observant. overall he probably visits way more often than he otherwise would if didn't get the additional satisfaction of 'beating the system' I've noticed the same thing about the McNuggets. A 6 piece is ~$3.50 while a 4 piece is $1. Get 2x4 pieces, have two extra nuggets and save $1.50! Gift cards don't expire in the state of California. If a gift card has a monetary value (ie a $50 amazon gift card) then it legally can't expire. If it says that it has expired when you try to use it contact the retailer directly and inform them that you live in California, they will issue a replacement.

Edit: For clarity it seems from other redditors comments that this isn't limited to California, I only knew this from personal experience and didn't do any research. There are also people asking questions about fees and places that have shut. Some cards charge a maintenance fee, like a couple dollars a month until the card runs out, but people have pointed out that sometimes that's illegal too. If the store has gone bankrupt or disappeared I think it's safe to assume you missed out. Happy to see how well received this was. Hope some people found gift cards from Christmas' past! :) As a part of the CARD act: I believe this is the case in every state. &gt; CARD act
 
[Not quite ... that only makes the expiration be at least 5 years after issuance.](https://www.govtrack.us/congress/bills/111/hr627/text)
 
A gift certificate, store gift card, or general-use prepaid card may contain an expiration date if 
 
(A) the expiration date is not earlier than 5 years after the date on which the gift certificate was issued, or the date on which card funds were last loaded to a store gift card or general-use prepaid card; and
 
(B) the terms of expiration are clearly and conspicuously stated. This is also true in New Hampshire, and includes those Visa/Amex gift cards with expiration dates. Knowing that many so-called "locksmiths" are the drill and replace type. 

They know NOTHING about actual lockpicking and will just bust out the drill, drill the lock, and overcharge you for a cheap replacement lock (usually kwikset brand),

 I worked for a national "unlocking" company for a few years, and we action did it all: picking, drilling, re-keying, and replacement. Even stocked various brand of locks.

In many cases though, drilling is a quicker option, especially if you can sell a new lock...

Some locks are just plain fucking difficult to get. 

Also, people can simply tell the locksmith NOT to damage anything. If they can't pick it, thank them for their effort, and call another company. 

Edit: I'm an idiot I just utilized these services the other day when I locked myself out.  One thing that concerned me was that no ID was asked for at all, dude just showed up, broke me into my house, got paid and left.  

Is that normal?  Yes. Source: former brother-in-law was a locksmith. He would routinely let people into their cars/homes/whatever, take the cash and head directly to the casino. Hence the 'former'. Yep, I had a locksmith break into my house because the person trying to gain entry had showed him a lease for the property. The "lease" was something sent by a Nigerian scammer who had copied my rental listing. The explanation I got from the police is that the locksmith did nothing illegal since he was acting in good faith. Worked in the garage door business for a few months.  So many times we'd get calls out 'My garage door isn't closing'. Get to the house and there is a leaf in front of the safety eye.  Before calling, make sure A.) there isn't anything obstructing the safety eye, B.) the unit isn't unplugged.

Another real easy call is wiring issues.  Sometimes technicians will not put electrical tape on any wires they had to splice.  Do a quick check to see if there is any wiring that's touching what it shouldn't be.  Also, on the unit, verify that the wiring is actually connected to the unit.

Lastly, if you're having issues with it going half way down/up then reverses, it's likely the force.  As the unit gets used more and more and gets age, the force needs to be adjusted up.  On most units, there are two screws on the side (or back) of the unit.  Take a small flat head and adjust the up and down force up a notch and test.  

These three tips will save you a 60-90 dollar service call.   At gas stations (at least in my state), they have to turn on the air for you to inflate your tires if you ask. No need to put quarters in the machine!

The gas station attendants always make a sour face when I ask, so I assume they hate it. Mwahaha free compressed air!

.

Edit: I posted this map of free air below but it's getting buried: www.freeairpump.com/map/

(we might have hugged it to death at the moment) Hope this comes in handy! &gt; they have to turn on the air for you to inflate your tires if you ask. No need to put quarters in the machine!

This is the law here too. The response has always been "we don't have a switch for the air pump" or "sorry, it's broken." That's when you pull out a notebook, write something while tutting, then give them a smile and say, "okay, on with the rest of the inspection."

EDIT: Finally my top comment isn't about LSD and a Downs Syndrome kid. You could really commit to it to. Test the emergency stop gas switch. The locks and emergency exit. Go in the back and check the freezer temps ETC.  and just as you're finishing up that's when the real inspector walks in. That's when you step your game up. 

You're now inspecting the inspector. 

Edit: Thanks for the gold, kind internet stranger! "Mhm. Mhm. Mmm. Tie is too long. Pen is nonstandard. Pants 2 inches short. Overall appearance is clearly of an inspector. Not good. Clients shouldn't recognize an inspector until the inspection is done." "What are you doing here?"



 "What are YOU doing here?" "I'm here to inspect you."

"I wasn't aware I was being inspected today?"

"Figured that's why your late for your inspection" 

*continue to write in notebook Just walk in with a clipboard. Solves any problem. 1. Carry a clipboard with documents and papers on it.

2. look like you know what you are doing.

3. Speak confidently but in a bored tone, like you do this every day. 

At my job, I do information security. Occasionally we need to go out and do something with a user system. Since I like to see what i can get away with, I make my requests and identify myself as vaguely as possible. I've gotten away with saying "I'm from IT, I need to confiscate your system" and was able to walk out the door without the person asking to see my ID, asking what group in IT i worked for, and accepting a brief and half-way nonsensical explanation of where I am taking the computer, and what I am doing with it. 

Rarely did I have to explain myself or say what group I was in or who my boss was. To be fair , if you asked to cart away my system I'd load it up for you myself and throw in the chair Yeah, really.

"Why have you been in the break room for the past two hours?"

"IT had to confiscate my workstation."

"Oh." A workmate tried to phone prank me into thinking he's IT and start cleaning my e-mails of personal stuff because they'd soon "be running a background check".

Since I obviously didn't get a name or even a phone ID, I promptly sent him the fuck off even when he said that check was required by my line manager. I'd rather risk the backlash, than giving any info or help to someone that doesn't introduce themselves properly. The air machine at the gas station by my house has a card reader on it for their $1 air. I must say, I ended up using one once, and while it sucked paying the $1 for air, the machine did allow me to enter a PSI setting and then it auto-filled to that level.

Edit: Apparently, according to every other person on Reddit, various places do this for free. Especially Australia. That's actually kind of nice. I'd pay a buck for that. In France air compressors at gas station are free to use. Safety reasons (that way you can't argue that you had no cash for properly inflated tires). A quarter for air?!

Well, I guess that's inflation for you. I wonder what else is unknowingly free if you just asked nicely...

Like, if I just grab a candy bar and say "Can I just take this?", do they have to grumble and say "...fine. Take it."?  I guess it depends.  Are you wearing a balaclava with a gun in your hand?  I'm sure people are more likely to give you free stuff if you are.

 Can I substitute baklava for balaclava? Probably works about the same, right? Airlines don't want you to know this rule: U.S. based travelers can cancel or change their flights for free within 24 hours of booking.

**Edited** to incorporate some caveats, comments, and answers to questions.

**1.** As /u/CWSwapigans and others have mentioned: 

&gt;I want to point out that this law only applies if it's also more than 7 days before your date of travel.


**2.** From personal experience: If the airline cancels or changes any leg of your journey, you can cancel or change the routing of your trip without any additional fees. Also, thanks to /u/GettingBetter, if an airline cancelation does cause rippling effects, remember:

&gt;While I don't know your specific situation, a lot of credit cards have built in traveler's insurance. Next time, not only book your flight directly with the airline, but use a credit card. Terms and conditions apply, but as long as you paid for the tickets with the card, then you're covered. As always, keep the receipts.


**3.** Note that if you do elect to cancel your flight within 24 hours and rebook (presumably with a cheaper fare), the interval between the cancelation and rebooking leaves you without a reservation for a seat that anyone else in the world could take. Therefore, it is always better to make changes with an airline agent who can make the flight changes more or less instantaneously, as opposed to doing all this online on your own. That said, some airlines charge a fee for any bookings that involve one of their agents.


**4.** Some online booking agencies honor this policy. Examples given in this thread are [Expedia](http://www.reddit.com/r/AskReddit/comments/2s5g55/what_one_weird_trick_does_a_profession_actually/cnmqjrp) and [Travelocity](http://www.reddit.com/r/AskReddit/comments/2s5g55/what_one_weird_trick_does_a_profession_actually/cnmoev1).


**5.** According to /u/omgswftw:

&gt;and before someone continuously effs themself for years, fly Southwest. You can cancel most tickets for a full refund (or full credit good for up to 1 year) any time up to 10 minutes before the flight leaves, no change fees, bags fly free, more legroom, free wifi/TV most flights, and no blackout dates on using mileage.


**6.** /u/terrett101 and others would like everyone to note the following exception in the rule:

&gt;Secondly, some airlines (American is one) don't allow you to cancel within 24 hours of booking. Instead, they allow you to hold the ticket at a price for 24 hours without having to pay. If you've gone ahead and actually purchased the ticket, then you're all done and have no 24 hours to work with.

 Before someone fucks themselves, I want to point out that this law only applies if it's also more than 7 days before your date of travel. And if you book through expedia or travelocity or some third party this doesn't apply. Some (such as fucking expedia) have a $200 cancellation policy, even if your flight costs less than $200 and you bought it 5 mins ago.

Moral of the story: Use 3rd party sites to search for flights but then book directly through the carrier. [deleted] Contact the airline and the booking agent you used. [deleted] [This](http://www.dot.gov/airconsumer/notice-24hour-reservation) is the federal rule in question. [deleted] I just did this recently. The woman from the airline told me about it and thankfully I was just barely under the 24-hour mark. The new flight was also about $200 per ticket cheaper, but of course they sent me vouchers instead of refunding. "For any online cancellation that is covered by the 24-hour reservation requirement, in deciding
whether to pursue enforcement action, the Enforcement Office considers it to be a violation of 14
CFR 259.5(b)(4) and an unfair and deceptive practice for a carrier not to offer consumers the
option of receiving a full refund in the original form of payment before the cancellation request
is submitted. Carriers may offer other refund options, such as, for example, carrier-issued
credits, but such offer should not be pre-selected as the default choice of refund form or appear
as the more prominent refund option." - http://www.dot.gov/sites/dot.gov/files/docs/Notice_24hour_hold_final20130530.pdf The 1040EZ IRS form. Tens of millions of Americans can use it. It takes about five minutes to fill out and it's no harder than completing a library-card application.

The H&amp;R Block, Jackson Hewitt, etc. mass-market tax services would prefer that you be (A) terrified of tax filing and believe it can only be done properly for you by paid "professionals," and (B) deluded into thinking an airplane-load of money is going to drop on your house that only those "professionals" can find. 

Neither is the case. For most people there is no secret path to a giant surprise windfall refund. (And if you get a huge refund you have screwed up your withholding rate and should stop lending the government so much money interest-free in the course of the tax year.) If you have a simple picture, like most people, file your form yourself. And if you are among the minority with a complicated tax picture, the last place you should go for help is a storefront operation in a mini-mall. Get a reputable private CPA.  
**EDIT: Thank you for the gold! Don't claim any fictional deductions!** The EZ stands for easy.  ;) ;) ;) You're making me uncomfortable. The 7.3l turbo diesel is one of the finest engines in the world. But it has a huge flaw in the design of the wiring harness that communicates electrically with the injectors under the intake valve cover. This harness works itself loose over time and eventually will present all sorts of issues in your truck. Check engine light, stuttering and shaking at particular throttle positions, injector missing etc. 

Well if you take a US quarter coin and use an angle grinder to cut the quarter down to the right size you can wedge it into the wiring harness connector forcing it to stay connected tightly for pretty much ever. This is known as the .50 cent fix because you have to do it on both sides of the engine.

Here is some info about it. You take your truck to a mechanic with this issue and you will pay over a grand to get it sorted. Ultimately they will fix it with a $10 plastic part from ford. Those asshole thieves will rob you blind if you let them.

http://www.ford-trucks.com/forums/951027-50-cent-mod.html Thank you for saving me $1000.  $999.50 Ordering glasses from Zenni Optical online for $12 instead of paying $250.

Yes, that price of $12 includes frames AND lenses.

**Edit** - IMPORTANT - from /u/jcpianiste - When you get your eye prescription, you need to get your pupilary distance measurement - or PD.  Tell them that you would like this as part of your prescription. When you order from Zenni, they include a device for free that you can use to measure your PD, or if you contact them they will ship you one for free. Thanks to /u/jcpianiste for reminding me of this.

**Edit 2** For those people that are saying that their optometrist will not give them the PD, you might try TELLING them that you need that information up front before you make the appointment and then again at the beginning of the exam. That way, if they are going to give you a hassle, you can simply go somewhere else. Walmart optometrists are all independent from Walmart, so they really don't care if you don't buy your glasses from there or not.

**Edit 3** /u/brazendynamic says that you can now print a PD ruler/measuring device on the Zenni website. Thanks!

**Edit 4** /u/tking5o gave me the direct link to instructions on the Zenni site for measuring your PD:  http://www.zennioptical.com/measuring-pd-infographic But they won't have my brand, I have special eyes. Look. Look with your special eyes. MY BRAND! Every time I saw this commercial I would say, "my brand!" in that ridiculous voice along with him.

The A/V sync is off, but here you go: http://youtu.be/-J9V-pV5BSE I always preferred this version:

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=V-fRuoMIfpw Then the kicker is to take these new glasses into an optical shop nearby and have them adjusted to fit your face for free.  

To be fair, this makes me feel bad (unless it's a chain famous in the US for making eyeglasses in approximately sixty minutes, because fuck those guys).  I always mention how I did not buy the glasses here, I need an adjustment, and I'd be willing to pay a fee for the service.  They then always say 'nah, it's okay' and adjust them for free.

And one final point, my glasses usually end up more in the $50 dollar range from Zenni because I go for the fancy water-resistant anti-glare coating (which is fantastic and costs $140 itself at the aforementioned chain), and the transition sunglass lens. Some places won't adjust if they didn't sell the glasses, or if they do they make you aware that they won't take any responsibility for breakages etc if fixing them to your face goes wrong.

Breakages to the glasses, I assume, not to your face... For the Aussies playing at home 'shoulda gone to Specsavers!' And the Dutch I have been lifeguarding in some capacity for ten years. The one weird trick that pisses me off is that kids can be unaccompanied by an adult if they are over seven, and some parents use pools as cheap after school care. 

No problem for the lifeguard, but when you see the same lonely kids for 5 afternoons a week it gets depressing.  My sister used to work at a pool in a bad part of town.  She noticed the same kid every single day and felt bad so she talked to him and tried to befriend him.  At the end of the season (I live in a snowy state) he asked her if she would be his mom.  She was only 15 at the time.  Pretty sad stuff. The electric company does actually hate a lot of the "one weird tricks" because a lot of those weird tricks can actually cause what we refer to as "one weird death" when someone gets electrocuted by some asshat's electrical nightmare, bullshit capacitor scheme. Or is running a not to code, grid-tied electrical science project and backfeeding what should be a dead circuit. Or hooks a generator up backwards though a 240 volt outlet after a storm to power the house and doesn't open the main breaker first. It works, but it could also kill someone if not done right.

Edit. I have to say this: Don't try any home science projects on your electrical system. Get a licensed trained Electrician (preferably one with good references) to do any electrical work. Many wiring schemes will work for years until they don't and then they cause instant death or a fire. Some of the things posted here are not to be taken as a challenge or a do it yourself project. Again these are things most electricians and utilities hate because they can and do kill people. 

[To quote from NFPA:](http://www.nfpa.org/research/reports-and-statistics/fire-causes/electrical) In 2011, an estimated 47,700 home structure fires reported to U.S. fire departments involved some type of electrical failure or malfunction as a factor contributing to ignition. These fires resulted in 418 civilian deaths, 1,570 civilian injuries, and $1.4 billion in direct property damage. In 2007-2011, home electrical fires represented 13% of total home structure fires, 18% of associated civilian deaths...........    Recently had to replace a ceiling fan, the contractor was horrified to see what was going on above it. I could tell he really didn't want to have to put a new one up there, but was also scared to tell me that. I was perfectly happy to just install a simple dome light instead. I will take not burning my house down over a fancy fan any day. I don't think there are many electrical situations where a ceiling fan would be more dangerous then a dome light unless (1) its a ridiculous industrial fan pulling a ridiculous amount of current, or (2) its not the electrical that is bad but the joists and the weight and vibration of the fan would cause a problem. You came close to it with #2, but here's another reason why sometimes it is better to pay a professional. You can ONLY install a fan onto a properly secured *fan rated box*. You cannot use any regular box. Well actually - you can - it will just have a serious risk of falling out and injuring someone.

 Extreme couponing really does work.  A lady came through my line today, and had a preliminary total of $168.59.  After I ran a handful of coupons, she got out of there with a total of -$0.16.  That blew my fucking mind.  Even though it was in my line, I could only smile and laugh at it.  I wasn't even that excited when I used to watch that show on TLC back in 2008.  We PAID HER to take merchandise off of our hands.  My CSM didn't know what to do, so had to get up the ASM to my line, after he verified I did everything correctly, he opened up the till, and said "give the lady $0.16". What?! What kind of coupon, rather than saying FREE, says the store will give you money to take? My sister used to do that stuff. She had spreadsheets and notebooks and shit. It got to the point that the assistant manager would temporarily open a line for her to check out so she didn't clog up another line for 10 minutes. 

She "bought" a lot of things she didn't need because she needed them for another coupon to work. Frequently this would be shampoo and body wash. Since she didn't need it she'd give it to me. I would just stick it in my closet a forget about it. One time I took stock. I had something like 15 bottles of Old Spice, 20 bottles of Irish Spring, and another 20 bottles of assorted brands. 

I ended up keeping 5 or 6 bottles for myself and taking the rest to a homeless shelter, cause who needs that much body wash? Hobos, that's who. 


Edit: I'd also like to add that my sister regularly donated extra stuff to the homeless shelter and food bank

Edit 2: Wow, thanks for the upvotes. If anyone is confused as to how this kind of thing is even possible, or would like to start couponing, here's a link to get started: http://www.wikihow.com/Extreme-Coupon

Edit 3: :D

Edit 4: Awwwe, you guuyyss A relative of my wife's would routinely show up to family parties with a few bags of extras. He would press shampoo and shaving cream into my hand like a crime boss might hand off cash to struggling factory workers living in their neighborhood. "Here you go, daverod74... no no, I have plenty more. That there's for you." "Now go make yourself pretty for me." He seems like a good crime boss


Edit : I can't believe this is my highest voted comment lol &gt; He seems like a good-smelling crime boss

 and got a tax deduction for donating goods.

Smart lady. :) A while ago, I worked in a supermarket, and they had a loophole that sometimes happened if people reduced items without checking if there were other deals. (The pricing software really should deal with that, but that's another debate). Once a lady came in with a trolley(cart) full of shopping, and another full of honeydew melons. We paid her enough to take the melons that all of her shopping was free (or very close to it). From then on, we had to call a supervisor if a deal ended up paying the customer money, although I'd normally let it through if it was just one item, and the customer wasn't trying to scam us.

How it worked:

1 melon costs 2. There's a deal that lets you buy 2 for 3. The way the pricing software worked, it would add the price of each to the bill, then deduct 1. Then they had a shitload of melons to get rid of quickly, so reduced them to 25p each. The software added 25p for each melon, but still took away 1 for the deal. Meaning the store paid out 50p for each pair of melons. Unfortunately, my shift didn't end in before the store closed, or I'd have bought a load of melons myself.  I love the idea of saving money on a shopping trip, but at the same time I have no idea what I'd do with that many melons. The thought of wasting them would frustrate me. &gt; I have no idea what I'd do with that many melons.

Math classes. The thing is, it takes a long fucking time and you can only get very specific items. I used to get a few regulars that would do it when I worked at a grocery, and they said it's basically their full time job. And even then, if you prefer Brand A over Brand B, you have to hope Brand A gets the good coupons or you won't get it. Coupons in the UK are really like one per transaction kind of deals and are usually only like 50p off a 5 item. 

I don't know whether I wish we had American coupons or if I'm really glad we don't. I mean, do I need floor to ceiling ranch dressing?  If you ever visit the U.S. Southeast, you will see that the answer to that question is "yes".  I'm a social media manager and I hate when my boss (regularly) asks: 'How do we get this on Reddit?' Tell him it's a tricky thing and you need a five people team and a raise. "We'll need Jackdaws. A lot of Jackdaws." "how can we get this to go viral? let's make a viral video." get youtube to come down here and film this!  I had a director pitch that during a meeting.  Like her actual input and requirement was that we should make a viral video that goes huge.

As far as I could tell, she was using the term not as an adjective that describes a video that went viral, but as a noun that describes the type of video.  That's right.  Your task is to make a video that very quickly becomes huge and spreads organically across multiple platforms.

Get to it, then! Accountant here, and I used to work for an accountant that specialized in tax work (filing personal income taxes for clients). These accountants hate it when people are smart enough to do their own taxes. But here's the thing: filing taxes is easy. 

In most cases, your taxes are extremely easy to file. Take your tax slips, enter those numbers into a FREE tax program, and file it. In some cases, it only took about 10-15 minutes to complete a client's file, and we charged them a few hundred bucks. 

Want to avoid paying so much money for an accountant to file your taxes? The "one weird trick" is to get off your ass and punch in your tax info yourself. You literally just look at your pieces of paper and type it in. 

Edit: To clarify, I'm not saying tax accountants are useless. They're helpful if you have a complicated file with foreign income and business expenses, and all that other stuff. They can even point out some deductions that you might miss if you use a free software (such as childcare costs) unless you already know about it. But if you're single and all you have is employment income and investments, you're better off doing the work yourself.  I've done my own taxes in under two minutes before, from start to submitted. I have a login for the national tax office, all employers must submit group certificate details to the tax office, and I had no other sources of income.

So I log in, it has all my details there from last year, I click "no change to personal details", it says "This is what various employers report they've paid you, is this correct?" I click Yes, it says "Any other income?", I click "Nope", and it says "Taxes all done, see you next year." LegalZoom documents. Not because it's taking business away from us, but because we have to clean up the mess it makes when people try to use them.  it's almost invariably 'thinking you can do away with an entire profession by using one weird trick'.

as a former web designer, for me it's 'thinking your nephew who knows about computers and has done his own web page is a viable alternative to a professional web developer for your company web site'. "But you said you LIKED the dancing skeleton and flame gifs!" thank mr skeltal If people knew how often I googled their IT questions, I'd be out of half a job.   Effective googling is an art, and so is knowing exactly what to Google.

That said, pray users don't start rebooting computers by themselves, that'd be a problem! Usual conversation with a customer:

Me - Did you try restarting?

Them - Yeah!..

Me - Are you sure? Cause the first thing I'm going to do is restart your computer...

Them - Uh... fine, I'll restart it *again*...

Later on...

Me - Did restarting work?

Them - Yeah..... [Relevant.](http://dilbert.com/strips/comic/2008-12-24/) My usual conversation:

"Thing X doesn't work"

"Ok, show me the problem."

*Thing X works fine.*

"It didn't work just a second ago..."

"Have a nice day" I've come to the conclusion that we IT folk have magical powers.  Our mere presence is enough to fix issues, even without knowing what the issue is. More like...

Me - Ok I'm going to need you to restart your computer.

Them - Ok, thats done, still doesn't work.

Me - Really? That was fast. You actually restarted your computer?

Them - Yep and its still broken. Its your fault. 

Me - But its literally been 5 seconds since I asked you to restart. Theres no way you actually restarted and tried again.

Them - I minimized my browser then opened it again. So, just like you said, I restarted it. Is there someone else there who knows what they're doing who could help me?

 As much as people bitch about Windows 8, the boot time still makes me smile. And then I put an SSD in and it's like "Fuck you, &lt;issue&gt;! I may as well just reboot and see if that helps, it's literally faster than Googling the issue and reading the first result." I work at a pc repair shop. This how half of the troubleshooting/customer support I do over the phone goes:

"How do I fix this problem with xyz software?"

"Please hold, I need to access our documentation"

*Does Google search for what he literally just told me*

"Ok you need to \*reads some yahoo answer or forum post word for word\*

"Thanks for your help skilliard4!"


edit: I always read the solution fully and decide if it sounds like a good idea before reading it to them. I'm not gonna tell my client to delete system32. "Ok, you need to 'unplug the router you fucking mongoloid' sir"

Obvious edit: Gold cherry has been popped! Thanks, anon. People on here say this a lot,  but there is a definite skill in being able to ask the right clarifying questions and construct a google search phrase that will actually yield a workable search result. These are the skills you're being paid for. Like many 'support' based roles, the skill is not knowing the answer, it's knowing how and where to find it.

Chances are your caller has already googled "my computer isn't working properly halp internet plz". The fact that through questions and experience you can turn that into "OSX Yosemite mailbox not syncing with ios8 mail app" makes you a hero. Take it. 

To summarise: don't sell yourself short.  

Edit: Holy shit, thanks for all of the gold, friends!! Not an IT guy and I could pull off that kind of phrasing, it gets difficult if it's a 30 page forum and I don't know where to begin looking or am just lazy  "Never mind guys, I fixed the problem" TELL US HOW YOU FUCKING FIXED IT OMFG

Cheers for the gold yo *Google uncommon problem

*Find the one thread on Google that perfectly matches your problem from 6 years ago

*Read four pages of people trying and failing to fix the problem

*Near the end, still looks good, someone posts one last suggestion

*OP comes back with "that didn't work, but I fixed it anyway, thanks all"

*Set fire to internet

Edit: Thanks for the gold! [relevant xkcd](http://xkcd.com/979/) I have this hung on my office wall. brb, hanging this on my office wall. I think that's also what I'm saying to the IT guys. They say they're just googling your answers but when they get to the 30 page forums after searching on the right phrasing they *then* know where to look within those forums. Or those that are any good do, at least. 

I do alright trawling through the forums personally, but if it gets too hard I end up asking facebook.  As an IT guy, it's one of those things you have to keep reminding yourself.

To me, it seems like my very niche knowledge is just common sense. It's not hard, it's so easy, anybody could do this. I just google or read manuals.

But then I have to remember I've been working in this very narrow field for over a decade, and most people have never even heard of it. And oddly, I have worked with people who are incapable of doing, or learning to do, this (rather easy to me) job The same way cooking is "just following a recipe." Some recipes are really freaking hard to follow. To add to the comparison it's also reading the recipe and knowing what the hell they mean when it say's use a fluted pan, I'm trying to make a cake not perform some sort of concerto! Admin rights, it's the only thing keeping me employed.  If my users had admin on their workstations, well, I would have a lot less work to do.

edit: yes, I know, giving regular users admin rights is a recipe for disaster. Have you ever worked at a place that gives everyone admin rights?  It has been several years but we had people loading all kinds of random non-work related software.  I remember Webshots passing around our company like a virus.  People would set it to switch their background every 5 minutes.  Then tickets would start coming in about our internet being slow (probably 10-15 mb commercial split between 300 users).

I can't imaging what it would be like now with all of these apps that try to trick you into installing 2 or 3 unrelated apps.

I'd estimate that for everyone 1 person that can handle admin rights and it would make their life better there are 2-3 people that would screw up their computer and create more work for you. Every machine in my office has admin rights and it hasn't caused a single issue. Then again we are a software house, I imagine not giving users admin rights would cause an uprising.  I worked in a software house that briefly had a policy of not letting users install any software on company machines that would do any sort of network I/O. Didn't take long for us to point out that it would by definition mean none of us  could run the software we were employed to write.

But really, you shouldn't need to give devs admin rights - well thought-out sudoers groups and the like should suffice. &gt; well thought-out sudoers groups and the like should suffice.

This is de facto admin access, I was talking in generalities when I said admin rights. I know a guy who's working on web software that is always bugging out on chrome because they don't let them install chrome on their machines and so they can't test it.

It's crazy to the point of being kafkian. [deleted] I work as an internet sales specialist for a chain of car dealerships, and if the average person knew how easy it is to get the cheapest possible price on a new car, I wouldn't have a job.

Literally all you have to do is start a bidding war between two dealerships. Submit inquiries online to both of them, and explicitly tell them that you're shopping. Any time one of them comes at you with a deal, just present that number to the other one. They're going to keep trying to beat each other until they financially can't anymore, and that's when you have your cheapest price. 

The real kicker to this is that dealers trade vehicles between them all the time, and the market isn't as saturated in new cars as you may think. If you're looking for something very specific, and not super common, there's a very good chance that they're trying to sell you the same car.


**Edit**: Thank you for the gold kind stranger! 

**Edit 1.5**: DOUBLE GOLD! Thank you!


**Edit 2**: Now that I have you all here, I'd like to take the time to remind you that the days of sleazy salesmen are mostly done. Please don't be a dick to your salesman under the assumption that they're trying to rip you off, because in most cases they're just trying to put food on the table. The ability to rip people off isn't nearly as bad as it used to be before the internet. I did this for my recently car, had 3 dealerships outbidding each other. I ended up pissing off all 3, and really pissing off the one I bought it from because I talked the sales guy into putting a spoiler on for free at the end. I got a call from the manager a few days later saying they couldnt do that because it would end up costing them money on the sale so I told them to keep the car (they had already put the spoiler on). Yeah he was bluffing.
 This is an important thing to remember. They're always bluffing. No car dealership is going to walk away from a sale. Unless you're undercutting their margins to a point where a sale is literally impossible, they're going to find a way to do it. Between service and repeat sales, a customer is worth more than net profits on an individual vehicle, so most will part with a car, even if it means turning no profit or actually losing some money. &gt; No car dealership is going to walk away from a sale. Unless you're undercutting their margins to a point where a sale is literally impossible, 

Not even then sometimes. Dealerships make money on the sale of the car, but they also make backend money for selling a certain number of cars. Lets say 100 cars a a month get's them 50k in back end money, if at the end of the month they are at 98 cars they will practically give you the car to make the sale.  [There was a fascinating episode of "This American Life"](http://www.thisamericanlife.org/radio-archives/episode/513/129-cars) last year that followed a dealership trying to make sales numbers.   That episode was so freaking stressful... then the shit just resets the next month. 

I wouldn't make it. I kept thinking that the reason they are always tight at the end of the month must be that the spend the entire first week drinking to get over the previous month. &gt;Unless you're undercutting their margins to a point where a sale is literally impossible

And this may be even lower than you think. A few years ago, I bought my new '09 VW Jetta for *less than the dealership paid for it*. Because I took 0% APR financing for 6 months instead of paying cash (my original plan), the dealership got a $500 kickback from Volkswagen, making it a profitable sale.

When I asked their accountant, "so, I'm going to get a huge discount even though I will pay this off without paying a dime in interest, and you'll still get a kickback from VW?"

He just shook his head and said "It makes no sense to me either."

I showed the final price to another dealer and he just scratched his head and said "Honestly, I don't know how they are possibly saying that price, because that is less than I paid for it. If that is truly the price then that is an unbeatable deal, but I think they are messing with you."

Best part was that when I totaled it a full year later, I was reimbursed for $1500 MORE than the price I paid for my NEW car. I still have no idea how, but I wasn't about to start asking questions. Yup, and after the bidding and you show up to pay, don't be surprised if they suddenly remember some other dealer fees or lot fees they are "forced" to add to the price. Be prepared to walk when they do that. That is why you ask in your email for a "out the door total price with all fees included." Print the emails out before heading over to the dealership.  Did this on my last vehicle purchase.  $43k+ car for $28k.  I felt badly for the salesman and apologized.  He said "why?  Easiest deal I have done all day.  All I had to do was show my manager a few emails and see what he wanted to do.  No BS face to face negotiations making everyone feel bad".

I think it works best on that standard models that every dealership has on hand/getting delivered.  Luckily that is what we wanted anyway.

Edit(2):  lots of PM's, so this was the process I used:

1) decide what you want and get the spousal consent
2) walk into 4-5 dealerships and meet a real salesperson, talk about what you want and what you "value".  Establish trust that you are a real buyer.  Get a card and an email address.
3) emails out to the salesfolks (separately) detailing what you want, terms of the deal (cash), closing timefame (end of week), process you are going through, and starting bid.
4) go through a couple (like 2) rounds of bids (letting them know they were outbid) and ask for a "Best and Final"
5) accept best bid, get details of deal so no funny business
6) pay money, get car

Treat them like real folks you are doing business with.  Think Craigslist, not ebay.  You are likely their neighbor and will likely be going back for years of service. It definitely works better on standard models, due to supply and demand. If a car is rare, the dealership has more leverage to hold gross, and they should. Obviously they wouldn't part with a car for $8k under if there's only two in the state and someone down the road will buy it at sticker. Yup, worked like a charm for my last car purchase!  I knew EXACTLY what I wanted and the first dealer had the car in stock.  I asked him for his lowest price up front. He hemmed and hawed and gave a number $3k more than what I wanted to pay, so I said, I want to pay $3k less than that.  Can you do that?  They said no, so I walked.  

2 days later I received a call from another local dealer saying they could give me the price I wanted for the car I wanted.  I visited them and there was no funny business.  Just a contract for the car at the price I wanted to pay.  They said the car wasn't there yet, so I wanted to wait and inspect it before I signed ANYTHING (just in case it was different than what they promised.  

Lo and behold, it was the EXACT SAME car from the first dealer, albeit with 7 more miles on it for the drive from that dealer to the other.  I guess they wanted the sale more? Electrical Engineer here. "Fixing" fuses by putting a coin or a bit of wire in there. That's a big dangerous stupid no no. That's why you use a.22lr round instead!  ^ This guy's going places! 

Such as the ER or the morgue  Friend of mine once phoned me up asking if I could have a look at her vacuum cleaner that had "blown up". The thing had a cord about four feet long from where she'd repeatedly stripped it back and put the plug back on - don't ask me why - and it also had bare wires going into the plug. The bare wires had touched and luckily one of them had simply come loose. Why luckily? Well, I opened the plug up, and there was a fuse, wrapped in tin foil. "That's how you fix fuses, isn't it?" she explained.

Shocked, I said "where else have you done this?" and sure enough, most of her appliances had been "fixed" the same way. Including the TV in her daughter's room. I nearly flipped out, then took her to the DIY store across the street - literally - and bought her a bunch of fuses. Good god that was worrying, especially since she's also the most accident-prone person I've ever met. I'm sitting here in a cold sweat after reading that story. Think I need a cup of tea and a lie down. Make sure the kettle has a proper fuse in it. To all the confused americans here this person is most likely British.  They have little boxes on their electrical plugs that you can open up and put a fuse into. [Example here.](http://physicsnet.co.uk/wp-content/uploads/2010/06/plug-pic-1.jpg).  They also used to buy appliances with just a bare cord and have to install their own plug, though I believe this custom is losing ground.

To the confused British, we don't have fuses on our appliances plugs like you do.  Just large 15-20amp ones for the entire circuit in our breaker boxes. The practice of needing to put your own plug on died out about 2 decades ago.

What you get these days is plugs without any screws at all, so you can't get into them easily. Instead, the fuse is accessible from a door on the outside.  This means a lot less people open up plugs and mess things up

http://www.flameport.com/electric/plugs/class1_moulded_plug2.jpg A restaurants wine markup is usally over 200% and often closer to 300%

You can often buy these wines at a grocery and bring them to restaurants with you. Though you  will have to pay an uncorking fee and the server has to open the bottle, it's still less expensive than buying the bottle there. As someone with a decades worth of experience in the liquor and dining/hospitality profession.  Your numbers are just about correct.

If anyone cares for the explanation.

A bottle of wine is between 3-4 glasses of wine, it will start to turn to vinegar after 4-5 days.  The restaurant will charge you their cost of the bottle on each glass.  Imagine you're the only customer who has 1 glass of a particular wine. A few days later it's trash.

Liquor/package stores on the other hand, they have some of the lowest markups in all of retail.  People often believe liquor stores make a killing, but in reality they are competing for some of the lowest margins in all of retail - help any mom and pop shops if you can. &gt; Imagine you're the only customer who has 1 glass of a particular wine. A few days later it's trash.

Based on my experience in kitchens, it sometimes gets drunk in the back of the house before things get to that point, fortunately. No one is saying that it doesn't get used, it's just preferable to have the bottle paid for. You can bring your own wine to a restaurant? Where? Legal in Ohio, I opened many bottles when I worked in restaurants there.

 I  guess it varies state to state, and between estaurants Plenty of places in England.

Do check it out before though, if they are ok with it they will often advertise the fact It varies by state, but there is a "cooling off" period after you sign a residential lease in NJ. It gives you three days after you sign to back out of a lease for any reason. 
I've used this trick before after signing a lease. The realtor I was working with was surprised (and disappointed) that I knew about it. Why did you have to use it?  Security Guard here. Just know you can walk away and tell the guard to pound sand, unless of course you actually have broken the law and they witnessed you do it. 

* If a Security Guard demands to see an ID, you can tell him "no", and just walk away. Security is not a sworn LEO, and cannot legally force you to show ID, and cannot arrest/detain you unless they eyewitness you break the law.

* Some places post signs that "This establishment has the rignt to search your bags/property". No they don't. They have the right to *ask* your permission to search your bag and ask you to leave if you decline, but it is illegal for them to just grab your stuff and go through it without cause and without your consent. If you haven't committed a crime, and a store security guard/manager says "show me what's in your bags", it is 100% legal to simply say no and keep walking. The starbucks secret menu. If you have to use it, tell them the ingredients, not the name. WE ARENT TRAINED TO MAKE A COOKIES AND CREAM DARK CHOCOLATE BIRTHDAY CAKE FRAPPUCCINO. I work in publishing for a company that publishes professional journals where researchers publish their research papers. There is a burgeoning industry of what we call 'predatory publishers' out there. They will contact professors, students, and other professionals who might want to publish research and tell them they can get their stuff published right away. They then turn around and charge these people crazy fees for publishing their work, which should never happen. There is usually some fine print in whatever agreement the authors sign. What's worse is that these places create journal names that sound very similar to legitimate journals and will create websites that look like the legit journals'. They will also name real people as part of their editorial board without ever telling these people they are on it.  Just rebooting your computer instead of calling tech support.  I tried taking your advice and it didn't help at all. My phone locked up this morning. I've rebooted my computer 3 times but my phone is still locked up. Ferrites.

Is your design putting out too much emissions? Being victimized by interference? You could spend days, weeks even, trying to filter that out. OR, you could slap a ferrite on that shit and call it a day. Whenever you see a little knob on a computer cable or the like, you can be pretty sure an engineer somewhere threw his hands up and said "Fuck it. Time to go home." From what I hear, it's more like walking into the emissions testing center with a box of various ferrites and slap them on until it passes.   I'm an esthetician and those "secret skin care tips" piss all of us off. Stop putting baking soda or lemon juice on your face, Pinterest. I worked at mcdonalds for a while and so I learned a couple tricks about the place. One thing a lot of people already know is you can order fries with no salt and then they will just give you them right out of the oil and they are really hot and fresh. However they don't taste as good because they don't have salt. What a lot of people don't know is you can just order fresh fries. Then they will just make them like normal and then give them to you right away. Vastly superior. This goes for almost anything that is cooked, you can order it fresh and they will make them fresh, so long as you don't mind waiting a couple minutes for them to actually cook the food. Having new lenses made for your old glasses.  The real profit is in selling frames. Latin teachers *hate* Google translate. Not even because it can be used to cheat. Oh no, my friend. It's because the translations it gives are utterly, woefully, laughably incomprehensible. No matter how bad you are in class, you are better than Google. As a designer who does a lot of photo-retouching: "Everyone says the iPhone can take professional photos, so i'll do that instead of pay for your photographer to take professional photos"  

They then wonder why their catalogs and brochures look sub-professional. There's only so much magic I can do before I charge you more on retouching hours than you would have paid my photographer!
 The part I used to hate the most - my nephew/son/friends' sons' dogs' brothers' unicorn knows how to photoshop so he did the logo...

Hand's you a 8gb flash drive containing a 300k 100x200 gif that they just downloaded from company website.  Then throws a fit when it looks shit blown up to A3 size - even after you trying to tell them it would look shit. Complaining at a restaurant to get free food. 

Go fuck yourself. Repeatedly. If you have nothing at hand, feel free to borrow my biggest knife.  You mean like, if nothings wrong with your food but you're making it up right?
 Yes. If somethings wrong , don't eat it - tell us. If it'sthe kitchens fault it'll be remade and potentially comped, though probably not completely. 

If you eat it and try complain it was wrong, too bad. If you tell the server it'snice, eat it and then complain? Back to the knife we go.  "This steak was awful"

"Sir, you've licked the plate clean and gnawed the bone." You know it's going to be bad when the guest starts off with, "Is Chuck working in the back tonight?  He knows just how I like my steak."  No, no Chuck.  Never been a Chuck here.  There's 6 Julio's, 3 Manny's and a Gustavo in the back, but never seen a Chuck here in the 3 years I've worked for this restaurant. Guaranteed complaint, no matter what. It's always afterwards, when they've complained enough to get the comp, that they the guest goes, "You know what?  I think Chuck worked at the other restaurant we go to."  Oh?  How fucking interesting!  Get lost, twerp!
 I used to work at Arby's so the secret trick there is to not eat at Arby's. As a cop, I hate CSI and other shows like that.  "No, I can't get prints off this rock that someone threw in your car." 

I'm sorry that you watch a show where 8 people work for an entire week on one crime, but that's not the way it works in the real world.   Buying Vanguard index funds is a simple, efficient way for young people to invest their money which is hated by every financial adviser.  I'm an ER RN. This is one trick many people use to get into a room ahead of other people. Tell them you have chest pain going down your left arm. We take that seriously and will bring you right back. The reason we hate this is more than the fact you are a douche that just cut the 95 year old lady waiting for 4 hours with back pain. It's because you are going to get rushed in, have a CBC, BMP, troponin, EKG, IV, chest X-ray and IV. And when the doctor comes in and wants to talk about your chest pain that now has mysteriously disappeared, they will be confused as to why you now are concerned about the fact it burns when you pee after hooking up with that chick at a club the other night. This requires an entirely different set of tests than what we have just done. You are a dick. You will be ignored. We hate you. We will make fun of your burning dick. You will receive no creature comforts while there. You will not have your call light answered. We have ways of torturing those that knowingly do not follow the rules. Dick.  I went into an ER with massive heart burn and I was seen super fast, had an EKG and it was normal, but they ran my blood work anyway as matter of protocol and my heart enzyme (troponin)  was 6.94 when the normal was 0.04

They rushed my by ambulance to a second hospital where I got an anginogram and they confirmed a blocked artery in the heart.

I'm glad they don't take my word for it when I say it's just heart burn That right there is the reason chest pain always gets a work up like that. My buddy is an ER tech and their protocol is EKG seen and signed by a doc within 5 minutes of walking in the door. He said one day this 20 year old guy walked in saying his chest felt funny. He did the EKG and he was having a fucking huge MI. The doc said its a good thing it's their policy to run an EKG because even the doc said he probably wouldn't have ran one right off the bat if it was his call. I don't understand why he wouldn't since they take like 2 minutes but i assume he had reasons. I actually went in with pain in my chest (pretty obvious broken rib), told them it was absolutely not cardiac when checking in, and they still pulled me back immediately and I had to argue I didn't need an EKG. They take that stuff seriously! The problem is that people that are not in the medical field say "I was out shoveling snow and pulled a muscle, now my chest hurts" not realizing that the excess activity caused a heart attack. All chest pain is a heart attack until we do an EKG, chest X-ray and troponins. Until then, I don't care what your story is, unless the chest pain is from a stabbing or shooting.  My heart was attacked, by a knife. He died of natural causes.  Naturally, being stabbed dozens of times causes death.   this post was brought to you by the Roman senate EMT here, we hate it too. Oh, the night shelter filled up on beds and all the sudden you have 10/10 chest pain? Well your near perfect vitals say your probably a liar, your EKG looks better than mine, and you've been texting on your phone for the last 5 minutes. Oh you're allergic to every pain med except morphine? What a hard life for you. Aaaannnndddd now you're faking a seizure. Wonderful, I'll call every medical research facility and tell them we have a medical miracle here as its the first fucking seizure where the person has been able to talk to me at the same time they're seizing.

/rant Police officers _hate_ it when you say "no comment" and wait for your lawyer.

There are so many completely legal tactics and tricks the police can employ to get you to confess shit. There are also so many unpredictable implications of answering even the most innocent questions. If you are arrested just remember: the police are not your friend and they do not have your interests in mind. Do not say anything to any of them, not the arresting officer, not the guy behind the desk, not the guy who brings you food, no-one.

There's a reason why your "right to remain silent" is specifically stated, because it's one of the most important rights you have, use it! Oddly enough, you do have to say one thing: "I am invoking my right to remain silent." or some variant thereof. It's not enough to simply remain silent. You have to acknowledge the right and that you're taking advantage of it. Eating less and regular exercise is enough to lose weight in most cases. I've lost 95 lbs. eating 1500 calories with absolutely no exercise  You don't even have to exercise (even though it doesn't hurt, of course) if you eat less calories than you use, you lose weight. If you only eat junkfood until you reach that limit however, its not very healthy. Yeah, true.  The person I live with made a point of only eating salad for four months summer before last.  The bastard lost 60lbs.  Zero exercise, he said he was saving the weights for when he'd lost the flab.  Which he did, and then he started lifting a few weights at home.

Zero cost, zero exercise, ridiculously amazing results.  Total bastard. I replaced soda with water. Combined with portion control over the course of the year I lost about 40 lbs. 

Diet is everything.  &gt; Zero cost, zero exercise, ridiculously amazing results. Total bastard.

Roommates hate him!
 Dieting doesn't work. Changing your diet does. Actually, belts that electroshock your belly are the key to fitness. In Canada there is something called the Scanning Code of Practice ( [Link](http://canadianbudgetbinder.com/2012/09/26/scanning-code-of-practice-scop-in-canada/) ). Most major retailers adhere to it. What it means is that if the product scans in at a price HIGHER than the price listed on the shelf, the customer is entitled to receive the item free, up to a $10 maximum (customer will receive $10 off when the item costs $10 or more). NSA here. Damn those tin-foil hats [deleted] [deleted] Or hack the school online bookstore book using off campus living free wifi.
Or easier version, google the book. Yeah I was able to find probably 75% of all textbooks I needed in PDF form.  Unless its some really obscure book or one of those "workbooks" made by the school, you can probably find a PDF with ten minutes or less of searching.

In some instances the teachers actually gave us the PDF which was great.  But I never spent more than $100 on books. My wife found a free PDF textbook she needed for her class by just going to the publisher's website and downloading it. I thought for sure that it was just a sample version, but she assured me that it was the entire thing.  Yeah its really easy to get free PDFs of books, and every time I see people complaining about how much books cost I'm just like why??? Use the ISBN number, that's the best way to google for ebooks/torrents/etc.  That way you always get the right edition too! There's a [SCOTUS case](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kirtsaeng_v._John_Wiley_%26_Sons,_Inc.) about this. The kid sold $1.2 million worth of books by having his family in Thailand ship them to where he was going to university. &gt; Wiley increased the prices for the international editions as well as the international student editions, citing Kirtsaeng.

Yeah, all his fault..... That said, publishers are forcing some stupid software with each book and profiteering by forcing the purchase because the class uses the software...  Y'all are buying too many books. My main trick for saving money on textbooks in college was not to buy the book until after the first two weeks of class. Many times, the textbook is never even used. I did sometimes lose a few points on early homework assignments, but never enough to affect my final grade and I saved a lot of money.  Saving a bit of money on textbooks is totally worth it when you're spending hundreds of thousands of dollars on your education.

Even in Australia where the payments are capped at about $10k per year, that's a year that you're not out there earning a full time wage. Six years at uni when you could be making $40k potentially is a lot of money.

It's a year of your life that isn't going to be returned at the end of it.

I spent six years in total at university. If my working years are 18-68 those six years represent 12 per cent of the income producing part of my life.

Looking back on that now I'm frankly astonished that I was ever silly enough to cheap out on text books or not take my education as seriously as possible. I bought my old organic chemistry book this way and it was like $40 new for the international version vs. about $180 new for the US version.  The only difference was the international version was in black and white while the US version was color.  [deleted] There was no joke in there.  The international version was actually black and white and the US version was in color.  I meant that quite literally. I'll need to remember this one. Engineer here, did this in school,  150$ heat transfer book for 15$. Just make sure to order a month ahead,  some of them take a while to come in.  &gt; Just make sure to order a month ahead, some of them take a while to come in. 

That was the only problem I encountered. Sometimes you wait forever.  Just bought my first book from Abebooks today (literally). I was afraid it was some sketchy scam. I mean how can I possibly get a $200 grad level niche textbook for $22 shipping included?

Thank you for reassuring me. [deleted] Or, you know, they just wanted to give a quick tip and made a simple error. Thanks for nothing though, right?? [deleted] It was a joke. :-/ *practice
*EDIT* I learned that I don't know how to spell in the UK. not in the UK Oh wow. I learned something today. Thanks! This weird trick where you buy HDMI cabel from a place that sells them for a few dollars per meter instead of hundreds of dollars. The TV salesman profession hates that trick. Monoprice.com, for almost any type of media/data cable  Thank you for this link,
I'm at work and I just got 2 giant HDMI cords (the SO keeps bitchin' i still have his) and a new phone case for under ten bucks.
Killer.  You are very welcome  If you have Amazon Prime, then Amazon is similar priced (if not cheaper) to Monoprice after their shipping charges, unless you're buying a crap load of cables. Amazon is also much faster, making them my go-to place for when I need one or two cables these days. Definitely. I use both usually, depending on what cables I need and how many. monoprice has been selling at amazon. Their prime eligible stuff costs a little more, but shipping is included. Do they ship free to Denmark? Unlikely it's free. They don't even ship free in the US. But it still ends up being so much cheaper than an electronics store  monoprice.com - godsend for cables and other electronics. HDMI+Laptop=College student Apple TV Heads up with this trick, if you're doing a run over 7 meters or so spend the money.  What for? That's about the point where the cord is long enough that shielding starts to become useful instead of bullshit.  Mind you, 7 meters is over 20 feet... that's a hell of a run, and you'd probably be better off reassessing your install setup... Some people like ceiling mounted TVs. And media hutches behind the couch. And think that their wants supersede reality. And are willing to pay. Bought a HDMI cable (1 meter) for 4 and I've been using it for two years for my PS3. Still gives great quality.  and it will continue to do so until it stops functioning entirely. It's digital - your signal is going to be a one or a zero (so to speak) Yeah but the HDMI cables that are silver plated carry those 1s and 0s much better that the ones that are cheap and use only copper. The reason for this is because silver acts as a kind of faraday cage to the current running through the copper due to the pattern the silver takes on the surface of the copper. See, when a current goes through copper, you lose a few thousand points of data every second. The data "radiates" off of the wire causing a drop in quality. Silver plating traps that data on the cable and gives you the picture that you are intended to see.

So I won't be buying those shitty $2 HDMI cables anytime soon, thank ya anyway. I'm perfectly happy with my [reasonably priced](http://www.bestbuy.com/site/audioquest-vodka-3-3-hdmi-cable-blue-black/1267691.p?id=1218245474660&amp;skuId=1267691) cables that actually get the job done. /s holy crap those 5 star reviews I just bought the same thing on Saturday for my Xbox 360.  Same quality as the one I paid assballs for. I just bought one a week ago for my PC. $6. Works perfectly. Both my monitors are DCIM, I'd have no idea. ... neither of your monitors are DCIM. I can guarantee you that. This is what happens when you start toying around with a camera.  You mix up your labels and soon you're watching Netflix out of a cereal bowl. Lol, best response. You...you mean *that's not right?* So you use 2 digital cameras as your monitors? That's a weird choice. DCIM? What's that? Do you mean DVI? I think you're right.  It's been a while since I got everything hooked up and running. Monoprice! amazon or ebay Got 10m for 17 :) I worked at CompUSA in corporate sales in the 90s. Even then, the margins on most hardware were pretty low and money was made on the peripherals.

They sold a kit of a Belkin IEEE 1284 cable, *half* a ream of paper, and an extended warranty for $30 or $40 (don't remember the price). The assigned cost was &lt;$5 and that accounted for the physical parts and amortized warranty cost. This one is well known. I went through a similar experience when I needed to pick up component cables for my PS2 when I got an LCD TV. Went to Walmart just to see if I would be lucky (Walmart's electronics prices are just not competitive). Sure enough they had these official Sony cables for like $30 or $40 (can't remember). I was like, "Well screw that!" and walked over to Gamestop. They had a generic component cable that was under $15, and the clerk gave me a discount on it because I guess they wanted them to move. Inpatient therapist in acute crisis stabilization. In my area, homeless/lonely/detoxing/personality disordered people really can just walk into the emergency department and say they're going to kill themselves (or that they're hearing a voice that's telling them to make an attempt) to get placed on a 72-hour physician hold.

They get sent to us and, very often, they get three days of food, therapy, medication, and utilities that they will never pay a dime for. I'll work to get their first month of medication covered, make a follow-up appointment for them, frequently place them in group homes/assisted living, and then assist with their discharge transportation.

But nothing is stopping them from just shuffling from hospital to hospital, repeating the process until they reach their goal (e.g. a bus ticket out of state, a safe haven from pissed off drug dealers, or an air conditioned place to wait for their disability check to deposit on the 3rd of the month). There are literally scores of people in my city who do this, and I know most of their families, histories, and drugs of choice. It makes it very hard to care for my actual patients, who are going through some of the most frightening and reality-twisting shit you can imagine, when 1/3 of my census is malingering for the purposes of secondary gain. Utah has a program where all the chronically homeless people get a home. It prevents this from happening because their basic needs are met. They then get the therapy, counseling, etc that they need. It has been very successful and saves a ton of money because they're not using the ER just to get a few days shelter. It keeps them out of jail and off the streets. I'm all for programs like these, and like /u/onthebalcony mentioned most of them aren't dicks (although I've personally interacted with some who are not only abusing the system, but were verbally abusive and threatening to my staff and other patients). I've advocated a great deal for programs like these in my state, but I'm in a seriously poor state that has no cultural interest in mental health or homelessness.

I've filed reports to our Attorney General about abuse in so-called "personal care homes" which are our state's pitiful attempt at solving the homeless crisis among the mentally ill, and some of the things I've had to report make me furious just to think about. Shelters aren't much better, but they are underfunded and are explicitly short-term in any case.

I understand my chronic admissions with legitimate psychiatric problems;  I know them as people and have clinical and personal insight into their symptoms. It's the people who seek admission for the purposes of acquiring controlled substances etc that irk me because we spend unnecessary time on diversion because of their "suicidality" that led to the ER hold; that means there are people with acute psychotic symptoms  etc waiting for hours (or potentially days) on an inappropriate service just for a psych bed.

Same goes for nursing homes dumping unwanted patients in the emergency department and then refusing to readmit them without giving the family any advance notice, forcing us to serve as a placement machine (or be the people who discharge a combative woman with dementia home to her family) for a patient who is functioning at their current baseline. &gt; the people who seek admission for the purposes of acquiring controlled substances etc that irk me 

Addicts need help too. Not saying it's easy in any way, but no one woke up one morning and thought "I'll be a dick and abuse the system today". Psychiatry, addiction, lack of education/EQ, pain, etc. can make people do some weird shit. As for the people working in understaffed and under-financed places, they get tired too, and act irrational. 

Triage would be a nice place to start, if there were places to triage to and any kind of coordination across systems. Better working conditions would also be a huge leap forward - maybe it would give professionals the energy to see the person behind the problem, like you. 

Ninja edit: Maybe the debate it what the goal of society is. "Look after its citizens" doesn't seem to be it for many countries.  We are not an addiction treatment facility. We do not offer chemical dependency therapy, A&amp;D medication management, or detox. We tell all prospective patients this up front. People suffering from addiction do need services, but they don't need *our* services because we are not equipped to provide them with appropriate care. We only treat addiction in the sense that we incorporate outpatient A&amp;D placement into discharge planning for dual diagnosis patients if they are willing to engage in recovery.

There is a difference between asking for help in a hospital setting and asking for your drug of choice or, perhaps worse, your family member's drug of choice. And the readmissions I'm talking about are not the people I see twice in one year; I'm talking about one person visiting the ED literally hundreds of times in one year. In these cases, yes, they are waking up and deciding to abuse the system. I get that, I guess I was wording it confusingly. I feel like there is a societal problem with the treatment of many disorders and life situations that leaves an enormous and very interfering burden on other parts of the system.

And sure they may have woken up today and thought that. But what made them start to begin with? What put them in a life situation and an addiction that made abusing the system seem like an acceptable action? Were they raised that way, did their addiction affect their mental abilities, do they have other limitations to their personal resources that make them unable to understand other contexts than their own? None of this excuses their behaviour, but it might help explain it, and for me at least, it helped me not want to strangle them when they came in for the Nth time.  Oh, I get where you're coming from, and there are certainly large forces at play that plinko the patient to where they are now. And, you're right in that it doesn't excuse their actions. I'm not really even interested in blame... blame serves no utility. I feel like responsibility though, even in the face of sociological forces and persistent symptoms, is important.

The patients I see recover and do well don't do so because their symptoms are easier or they got better medicine; typically, they improve because they assess their life and value system (their values big and small, not mine or anyone else's) and make value-based choices in the face of adversity. They might not have the life they want, but they attempt to push their life in the direction they want it to go as a matter of habit.

There are some that I do want to strangle sometimes but it's my problem, not their's. If I want to see any change in my environment, it's unreasonable for me to expect anyone else to be the agent of that change. I have to be the one to mature and promote change. I'm just still figuring out how to do that when it comes to problems like these. People who manage to turn their lives around are very impressive to me. I can't even seem to quit smoking. But I also recognize that some people don't have those personal resources and insight. It takes a level of reflection and emotional intelligence to assess your life, and then it takes immense self control to get out - good help helps, but what's good for one person might not be for someone else. 

In these areas of healthcare where psychology is a huge factor, I think little things can make a huge difference. I recently read an article that pointed out huge differences in recovery rates based on socioeconomic status - not the traditional "the higher the better", but the more your socioeconomic background matched the person assigned to help you, thus making you able to relate to them on a personal level, the better you did. That's a tiny thing, imagine what a whole host of those things do. 

You're right about responsibility, and it's sort of a pendant to my point about explanation vs. excuse; you're an adult, you're responsible for your own life. How you administer that responsibility I think depends on your personal resources. And some people are crap at it. 

&gt; If I want to see any change in my environment, it's unreasonable for me to expect anyone else to be the agent of that change.

If everyone learned this, the world would be a lot better. Excellent point (though also one that takes a great deal of personal insight).  As someone working in harm reduction, I really appreciated this conversation. A lot of the individuals I work with are in similar situations to what you describe, and a few of them are like some of the troubling clients for /u/Satorarepotenetrotas. In all cases, we need to focus on the systemic factors, since most of the rest of society considers their problems personal and isolated. That's particularly challenging when they're making your job difficult, or creating problems of access for other clients who may be able to better benefit from the support in the way that it's intended. VERY challenging to keep all of that in mind, and there's a personal triage happening in our own heads that we also need to be mindful of. One of the hardest parts of working within these types of systems. It really is hard - who wouldn't be happier to help someone appreciative  and who would easily benefit? I just know that thinking in terms of sociological capitals has helped a lot. Everyone understands the buying power of economic capital, but cultural and social capitals are just as important. Zero cultural capital buys you  little in terms of understanding your situation and your society.   &gt; I can't even seem to quit smoking.


/r/electronic_cigarette 
 I want to try, but it's illegal to sell nicotine oil for them here and I'm not sure what the point is without?  Wait, what? NO ONE woke up that morning and thought about abusing the system that day?  You win the most ignorant thought of the day. The addict who doesn't try abusing the system every day is the exception - not the rule. No, they don't think they're being dicks - they think they're entitled to a free ride.  Might have worded that wrong but if you see my other comments I am sure it will explain things.  It's cool that a reddit post from last week made you an expert. What Reddit post from last week? When did I claim to be an expert? 

I have family in Utah, so I'm there a lot. The program *is* working. It might not be perfect, but tell me one social program that is. http://www.reddit.com/r/todayilearned/comments/2rq2u6/til_utah_has_been_giving_free_homes_to_homeless/ Never saw it until now. 

Sorry, but I don't get all my news on Reddit. I'm glad you don't. You should probably get your head out of the sand and realize not everyone is on Reddit all the time and there's a real world out there. Okay, how does this actually work? I was legit suicidal many times, went to the ER on about seven separate occasions, and all those times but one (where I was voluntarily kept overnight) I was simply sent home. Edit: I'm doing much better now though, thank goodness! Most states have a law in place that allows physicians to place a patient on a "hold", which in my state lasts for 72 hours (weekends and court holidays exempt), which makes continued inpatient hospitalization mandatory during that time; the patient can refuse actual treatment, however. This allows the proper clinicians to assess the patient to determine the level of risk and stabilize the patient from whatever crisis warranted the hold.

In my state, the use of a physician's hold for the purposes of involuntary psychiatric hospitalization legally implies that the physician intends to file for court commitment on the patient (hence the necessity that court be open for at least 72 hours before the hold expires). In practice, however, the use of the hold is frequently a power play on the part of med/surg physicians to force the psychiatric service to admit a patient. This negates, in their eyes, the holding physician's legal liabilities from a discharge and places the burden of discharge planning on other staff members.

So, what may have happened is that the doctors in your state (or the hospital you went to) are not as liberal in their use of the physician hold. They appear to be more willing to assume the risk of discharging a patient voicing suicidal ideation, which is certainly unfortunate. In my experience, medical doctors are not adequately trained in psychiatry during medical school undergraduate and often become cynical in the emergency room about psychiatric presentations due to lack of awareness and interest. In my state you better want to stay at the psychiatric hospital for a bit because if your acting is too good you'll get your ass committed.  Very few states having the funding to commit people. If you have insurance they are the obligated to pay. Though medicaid and medicare come from tax payers.  The homeless guy faking crazy doesn't have private insurance. So it's going to be different beuracratic groups doing whatever they can to push him onto someone else. Well said. Is this state Michigan? Honestly, it's not something that a medical professional is going to disclose. There's a set of questions and responses that make someone a high risk, and once someone is classified as such the doctor is obligated to act. Hell, I'll say it.  Because I care more about actually suicidal people being released when they shouldn't than someone abusing the system for a warm bed. 

You tell the ER doctor: "Dr. Smith, if you discharge me for the ER I'm going to walk outside and go to the hospital parking deck on 1st street. I'm going to take the elevator to the 5 floor, I'm going to walk to the edge, then I'm going to jump off.  The ambulance will bring me back into the trauma bay here, because 5 floors is not enough to kill me immediately.  You'll know it's me because I'll be wearing my hospital wristband that says "Patient name, General hospital, and Dr. Smith" on it.   I've already told the nurses that this is my plan.  I've got nothing let to live for, and if I can't even get help here it's going to be the last straw. " 

No fucking way someone who says that is getting released.  The doctor will be pissed at you, but they're not going to discharge you.  
 Probably not to hard to guess once you know they're there though. Most are fairly obvious, but it's better for everyone involved to answer truthfully. Probably depends on region, but at my hospital these patients would be evaluated by a professional who decided whether they were cleared for discharge or required admission/hold - in other words, did they represent a true risk to themselves or others. The psych admissions officers actually did a pretty good job of separating true illness/suicide risk from malingering, in my opinion. 

One other interesting thing is that if you come into a hospital intoxicated, in order to be discharged you have to either be legally under the limit or 'clinically sober', or escorted home by someone who is sober and agrees to take responsibility for you. Obviously most homeless alcoholics don't have a person available to do that, so they have to 'sleep it off' in the ER, even when their usual BAC hovers around .2. Of course, when these alcoholics get below a certain BAC, they start going into withdrawal, and guess what - can't discharge anyone who's in withdrawal either. 

Edit - clarity [deleted] Of course, but that generally only gets implemented once a patient has been admitted. In the ER the homeless drunks generally just sleep it off in the hallways without the aid of benzos. And if you're treating for withdrawal you're generally admitting for it as well. My point was more that although many of those guys come in for a warm meal/bed, hospitals are often obliged to keep them long enough for them to start withdrawing, and then to treat that withdrawal.  Generally they have to believe that you have a plan and the means to do it. Although it's still pretty much left up to their discretion and a lot of people don't really want to be burdened with putting someone on a hold that doesn't want to be there. A friend of mine was released from an ER after initially checking himself in for being suicidal, and then went and killed himself after convincing the staff that he wasn't planning suicide anymore after having talked to them.  That's really fucked up. You don't just send a suicidal person home. I hope you've since found the support you need.  I'll speak (family doc but working and training in ER) to this. Keeping someone in hospital because they're suicidal is often a last resort - for most patients it does not help them. We know that the only true factor for actual suicide is previous attempts, nothing else is really important. We also know that for certain patients admission does more harm than good - if you've been suicidal for 7 times you may very well fall into this category (admission does not make you less suicidal or less likely to go through with it in the longterm so if it is a chronic issue learning to manage it is the solution)

On the flip side we all see the malingerers and the cost of keeping them for a few days for some TLC (a bed, food, etc) is cheaper and easier than discharging them only for them to go to another hospital or come back within 6 hours. &gt; We know that the only true factor for actual suicide is previous attempts, nothing else is really important.

I just read that statement to my GF, who's an actual therapist specialising in kids with trauma.  She said if you use that criteria in most states, you're subject to malparactice as well as negligence charges and losing your license permanently.  That's so far outside the Standard of Care, it's fucking ridiculous. &gt; That's so far outside the Standard of Care, it's fucking ridiculous.

Agreed, not really sure where he/she got that idea. You have to really sell it.  And also not have an embarrassed parent talking to the psych worker in private about how "oh, she's not usually like that" and "no, we will watch her, she'll be fine" because let's be real here (sauce) - if one emotional person is saying they're going to kill themselves but hasn't actually made a concerted effort beyond a few cat scratches, and mom says it's ok to come home, you're going home.  From what I have seen with people I know, in the past, basically if ER personnel didn't actually have to save their life, they got sent home. Nurse hear, did some time in psych ER. While this is abuse of resources, obviously, they're not dicks. They're desperate. If I was cold and hungry and homeless and this was my only option, I'd do it as well. There should be other institutions available.  Bingo.  I'm in the same line of work and tbh its extremely rare to encounter a homeless person who is not suffering from some form of mental illness.... the chronically homeless at least. Thank you nurses! if they are lying about being suicidal or mentally ill, they are dicks Again I will back up /u/onthebalcony and say that when someone is desperate, they can become very resourceful and do what they feel they need to do to get help.  It doesn't make them a dick at all because you don't like it.  It's similar to when someone steals food from a grocery store if they're starving and don't know what resources are available such as pantries or hot food programs.  It's a bad thing to do, but they might not know any other way.  Exactly, only that's understandable. The ones that do it because a lifetime of shit has left them unable to see beyond their own situation and immediate gratification (in itself a sign something is very wrong) are just as desperate but oh so hard to find sympathy for.  It's much different than your food analogy. People who steal because they are hungry might hurt a store owner's profits, but are much less detrimental to society than people who con a system that gives immediate care to those in need, especially when those in need might not survive without prompt and undivided attention.  
  
They obstruct a service that saves peoples' lives for their own convenience. And if they really do need help, they can find it in plenty of other ways than barging into a mental health facility for free food and prescription drugs I can see your point but navigating the health care system is hard even for ordinary people. I've met plenty of people that don't realise different hospitals and institutions have different purposes, they see people in uniform and pick the most convenient one. Societys needs are not even on their radar. The consequences are bad but it doesn't make them bad people, just people in a bad way. What I don't get is why they're still admitted and not triaged out? Crying wolf should have consequences,  and repeatedly obstructing your work should require proof of attempt of recovery before they're let in again.  I never said they were bad people, and I don't even think they are dicks. And of course if you're using the healthcare system like this, you're in a bad spot--and that is not always the individual's fault directly. I agree with what you say here; however, I meant it when I said if you lie about being suicidal or mentally ill, you're being a dick. Or a jerk. Or inconsiderate. Or selfish. However you want to put it. &gt; I meant it when I said if you lie about being suicidal or mentally ill, you're being a dick. Or a jerk. Or inconsiderate. Or selfish. 

Or they just don't want to freeze to death and know that will keep them warm and off the streets. Even if they are lying specifically about being suicidal, they generally are mentally ill. No one of sound mind would want to live like that.  The people who are of sound mind and living like that (there are a few), who seek out hospitals as an avenue for free drugs are acting like dicks.  
  
 And if you are mentally ill, you sure as hell can take advantage of people or act like a dick. A few people I know who suffer from bipolar 1 are experts at being dicks, even when they are completely manic.  
  
 I have too much experience on the issue to give those taking advantage of the system a get-out-of-jail-free card. Especially since there are people working in the field who take advantage of their position too.  
  
 As someone in a mental hospital, it stinks being surrounded by manipulative and ill willed people on both sides. &gt;but are much less detrimental to society than people who con a system that gives immediate care to those in need

As someone who has had family in mental health wards, they aren't providing very much in the way of actual immediate care. Not to knock what mental health professionals do, but the mental health wards in hospitals mostly just house people for a few days until they get their shit straightened out enough to leave.  I spent a month in a psychiatric ward and they do not let you out unless you follow through with a discharge plan. I would use the word sometimes rather than mostly  
  
And I am not the only person in my family with the unfortunate experience of spending time in a place like that. Take care of yourself and don't ever let it happen--especially if you know you might be predisposed.  [deleted] You would not be lying when you say you are mentally ill if you actually happen to be. This is not the demographic I am referring to. &gt; wait for their disability check

this is extremely hard to get in some states even if that person has attempted suicide on multiple occasions, had hospitalizations, etc. My wife is still fighting social security, even though her sister successfully did it, and she herself has attempted several times (mostly in the now distant past). BPD + bipolar is a hell of a thing. My colleague did Social Security assessments and forensic evaluations in her previous work and I wish she were here to talk about it and maybe add to my suggestions, but this is what has worked for my patients:

Getting a disability attorney who will accept a percentage of the back-check (payment starts at the date of the first application and people typically have to appeal, so the back-check can be pretty substantial) has helped many of my folks. In addition, keeping documentation of how their workplace terminations, inability to acquire work, and sick leave is tied to the conditions under consideration is beneficial.

Disability due to mood disorders has been harder for my patients to acquire (unfortunately) unless they present with psychotic symptoms. At least in my state, they are more liberal with Schizophrenia and Schizoaffective Disorder disability. &gt; Getting a disability attorney

We got one a year and a half ago for the first appeal... the back log is just enormous in my previous state (we have since moved to another state).

&gt;keeping documentation of how their workplace terminations, inability to acquire work, and sick leave is tied to the conditions under consideration is beneficial.

been doing that, actually gave up on work as the only thing she could get was minimum wage with low hours that cost us more money (due to transportation). She's now a stay at home mom, which seems to have helped a lot. Nothing really to add to that for now (although I'll talk to my colleagues and see what they have seen work well), but I just wanted to wish you and your wish the best of luck in the whole process because I know it's a real crapshoot. yeah it also seems my income matters as well (just got 2 big (not so-big for IT; federal government doesn't pay super well) promotions to the point where we can break even now rather than run in the red). My social worker said people with those comorbid conditions were like unicorns. I've had to fight like hell to get treatment programs to accept me because of that diagnostic cocktail. I'm an outpatient therapist at a community mental health center in a very poor part of the country. I see this all the time as well, and it's damn frustrating. Good on you for your patience and willingness to do that job. Sometimes it is hard to be empathetic when I know people are trying to take advantage of the service we provide :-/  I work in homeless services, and my organization did a case study following the decline in use of public services by chronically homeless individuals who had been placed in a housing first facility. It found that the average client cost tax payers $40,000 a year by using the ER for healthcare, and otherwise getting caught up in the legal system. However, it only cost $14,000 to house them and provide wrap around services (nurse, social workers, etc.) to keep them well and off the streets. After two years of tracking 85 housed individuals it was found that the cost savings to tax payers was 1.8 million dollars. This is why even if you have no heart and think people should sleep under bridges, it really makes more sense to invest in housing them.

 With savings that great, it will never become law. So make arrangements so they can get food, therapy, medication, and a place to stay without having to come to you. You have local politicians; you and people you know are allowed to run for office; 29 out of the G30 provide at least some of these services to all citizens for free. I'm a gay man in the deep south, not so simple. And try running on that platform in the Bible Belt and see how far it gets you. My colleagues and I are working very hard to make use of the resources we do have, advocate where we can, and sacrifice more than enough of our personal lives in the process.

It just doesn't happen like that. As someone who has been through that process without even having this on their mind as a possibility, I want to personally thank you. It is very hard to be an honest professional in that field. People become dismissive, callous, and often take advantage of those in very fragile positions. Mental healthcare professionals who give a hoot, like you, are 98 percent of the reason I am alive and still know how to tie my shoes. I hope you get to see this! Wouldn't it just be cheaper for the hospital, and better for literally every person involved to just put out some free pbj sandwiches, some blankets, a small shelter or something?

 "I have a peanut allergy! I'm going to sue you!" - someone My wife went into the hospital for suicidal thoughts. She waited 4 hours in the waiting room, another couple hours in the room, only to have somebody ask her if it was alright if they just sent her home and gave her a call the next day. She was pissed, walked right out, and went to another hospital. She could have killed herself right after she walked out the door. Not just in my hospital, but in all the hospitals I'm familiar with, the emergency and psych departments are like the Hatfields and McCoys; we aren't fans of each other, and stories like this (and the opposite, where people are unnecessarily admitted against their will) are why. Lucky homeless people getting free food and medicine! How dare they. Yeah I hate giving the homeless 3 days of free compassionate care. "I'm gonna kill myself if you don't give me warm blankets and a sandwich" Bless you anyways. Well the natural consequence to this is they'll run out of hospitals or appear enough to warrant a civil commitment  We have the problem of PD putting everyone who might be a slight nuisance and has any psych DO on a hold. Literally half the people in the county psychiatric emergency center were placed on holds because of this shit, none of whom are remotely suicidal.  If it makes you feel any better, I was suicidal a few years ago and I went to my city's counseling center. They sent me to you guys. It was the first event in a small series that lead to my life completely turning around. So... Thank you.  Thanks for your hard work. 

I recently saw a guy with a psychosis, and was so glad that there was help available for him.  This is a testament to how fucked up the US health care system is. If there were appropriate social services people wouldn't be trying to game the system like this.    As an Intake Specialist at a CMHC in Southern Indiana, I feel your pain and frustration. The system for mental health is so terribly broken and easily taken advantage of that it's hard not to let that get to you. 

I'm the person you call for the follow-up appointment to be able to discharge them and it can be so incredibly frustrating for us. We have to give them an appointment that they inevitably won't show up for, then they will call and abuse our crisis line demanding a refill of the medication that you're facility gave them a months supply of upon discharge.

Then yell at me when I say we can't help because they never showed up for follow-up. So then they just go back to the ER and start the process all over. Vicious cycle.  I wanna thank you for the work that you do, because it really does change the lives of those of us who need it. I've never been put on 72-hour hold, but if it weren't for my therapist and psychiatrist, I would not be here today. Phoenix? This is another reason why housing people is a good idea.  Stay strong homey It's the new chest pain, and it infuriates me. A lot of good doctors leave ER because of this. There needs to be a way to sift this types. You can get care for that? I actually had a long lasting schizophrenic episode with malicious voices. I didn't want to tell my family though because I thought it would be too much money. Is this only for the homeless and stuff though Hospital security here, I see this all the time at the ER. They're not really malingering per se. They need services as badly as your 'real' patients.  Read this as "impatient therapist". 

"You need to get better now!" Any chance I would have received a free check up for a prescription when I last had an anxiety attack? I can afford the medication, but not the doctor visits.

So I've been having random attacks throughout each week. The are poor, addicted and desperate with A LOT of bureaucratic red tape to play with.

The poor aren't as stupid as middle class white america likes to believe, LAZY, yes, but smart ways to fuck the system gets around the hood easily Can't tell if you're trolling or not but in my experience poor people usually work much, much harder than rich people. If we're generalizing of course obviously there are lazy people waddling around in every area.  I am speaking of the people abusing the ER OP was talking about

And I grew up in poverty, I've seen ingenious ways they cheat the system, half because they are lazy, half because they are desperate. I wouldn't exactly call it smart so much as desperate and dishonest. It's the smart, lazy ones that learn the loopholes then others pick up on it via the grapevine.


I can't argue your post, those are there as well, but if you are a single mom getting welfare, because if you work FT, you can't afford a babysitter and other necessities, then can you fault some for doing so? I wrestle with that dilemma constantly. 

Welfare is the new slavery for my people.

 I can 100% verify this is correct. How many billions of dollars are just shitbag losers that are cold, hungry, looking for attention, or temporarily bowing to pressure from family to "clean up". I have had shitbag douches leave my ER after evaluation and declared safe, only to go to the ER and say they were suicidal and needed detox. This out them on a dual diagnosis bed search (psych for the suicidal thoughts, and detox for whatever they took) which is in short supply and they know it.  &gt; shitbag losers that are cold, hungry, looking for attention

Yeah, those- those shitbags!  With all their shitty not wanting to starve or freeze or be lonely!

In seriousness, I agree that it's bad when misuse of the system results in people with greater need being usurped by those in less need.  However, with all the abundance our civilization and technology has provided, it kinda sucks that the basics of life aren't available to everyone. The fact that you call them "shitbag losers" makes me think you might have some biases and I'm not surprised other Dr.'s might disagree with you. I am human and can detect bullshitters. I treat everyone equally at first. But i have a job to do. If you are a homeless heroin addict alcoholic junky with a shit load of bad tattoos, and a lengthy criminal record that treats us like crap, yeah, you are a shit bag loser, i dont flip a switch on my opinions just because im at work.  I think you are in the wrong field if something like tattoos or a criminal record affects your clinical practice.  Same with alcoholics and addicts.  Your job is not to dispense moral judgement, but to refer them for treatment.

Most importantly, "flipping a switch just because you're at work" is the "professionalism" part of the job.  Just like you are obligated not to let your religious preferences or political views affect your providing the best care you can.

I feel like this should be glaringly obvious. I have never refused care to a patient just because they are a shit bag. But if you are a shit bag, then you are a shit bag. End of story.  Waste of tax money. It can be cheaper to book a long, connecting flight that goes through your destination and get off early, than to just book that one segment.

Airlines hate it so much they are suing. http://money.cnn.com/2014/12/29/news/united-orbitz-sue-skiplagged-22/ Hidden City Ticketing. Make sure you book a one-way ticket if using this trick. The rest of your itinerary will be cancelled when you do not show up for the connecting flight.

Also there is this risk of a flight getting diverted because of weather. Then you end up at a different airport with no option but to book another same-day flight to get to your original destination.

Don't do this with an airline where you bank your frequent flyer miles. Your earned miles can be revoked and worst, you could be banned from flying with that airline in the future. 
 Do you have to "not show up"? 

"As it turns out, mr airline person I am horrified of flying! I'm renting a car and going home, I don't even want a refund, sell my seat if you want I guess. Peace!"  Or present your boarding pass at the gate, pretend to get on the jet bridge and then exclaim, "Oh! I forgot my phone at the lounge!", turn around and walk out. 

Not sure if that would work. Do airlines do a head count once boarding is over? No but then your luggage will end up at your final destination.   You usually don't get your luggage in between legs of a trip unless its overnight.  I'd be guessing you only do this with a carryon Also, obviously you can only use a carry on bag, anything checked in will continue to the destination on the ticket.  Yeah, way to get the knowledge out there even more by suing some guy and having the lawsuit reported on by a bunch of news agencies.

Excellent business strategy. http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Streisand_effect Of course there's a name for this. That's awesome. Decades from now, that will be considered Streisand's greatest legacy. The funny thing is, I've forgotten what it actually was she was trying to censor in the first place just that she tried to censor *something*. Which just makes me want to go back and remind myself of what it was.

I imagine this will keep happening. From memory, I want to say photos of a secluded residence, but I have no idea if that's right. I just remember the effect name. Yeah, that's right. And before she made a big deal about it, only 6 people had downloaded it, and 2 of those were her lawyers. Afterwards hundreds of thousands of people had downloaded them. That's all I know about them. I have no idea who they are. Dogshit taco Wouldn't this only work if you don't have luggage.  *Checked* luggage. Carry-ons, of course, would be on your person and you take them to your destination with you. Yup, but if you're really pushing to save on a flight you probably aren't checking any bags anyhow. A lot of people who travel a lot don't check luggage. So much quicker and easier! Yes, and only if it is a one-way trip or you are doing this on the return leg (else they'll cancel your return trip when you don't board the last leg of your outbound trip). Also it's risky because if the flights are delayed or canceled they could theoretically re-route you through a different connection point to get you to your (fake) final destination. Nah man. It's great. I had to get all my Christmas presents to California, but had to get myself to Denver. Took a skiplagged out of Atlanta to Denver that was then connecting to Cali. I checked some luggage with all the presents and had my carry-on with personal items. Got off at Denver and went on my way. Brother picked up the luggage at LAX and brought the presents home for Christmas.

^^None ^^of ^^the ^^above ^^actually ^^happened, ^^but ^^that ^^would ^^be ^^a ^^lot ^^cheaper ^^than ^^shipping ^^those ^^presents! I believe the TSA would have to emergency remove your luggage in this case, so your theory wouldn't work. You're assuming the TSA is in anyway competent. Thanks a lot Mike... ugh! Warning: Don't do this with round-trip tickets - they will often cancel the return flight if you miss your flight.   Since you can't do this on round-trips this limits the savings opportunities.  I almost did this going to San Francisco to LA. Wanted to stay in LA for a few days on the way there and drive up to S.F, but fly from S.F home. I only checked last minute before I flew out and found out that they would have cancelled the rest of my trip. But this only works for one-way flights or the return half of a round-trip. 

I once did this on the first half of a round-trip (innocently enough - had a freak change of plans) and the rest of the trip was cancelled automatically by the airline and I was charged a cancellation fee to boot. Had to rebook a return flight. This was what I thought of when I saw this thread. Because companies actually DO hate this, and it actually is one weird trick. It made for a great IAmA.

http://www.reddit.com/r/IAmA/comments/2o831k/i_run_skiplagged_a_site_being_sued_by_united/ I wonder if anyone has used this trick, then volunteered to get bumped off their "connecting" flight that they never intended to use.

Get to destination + get $$$ How do you do this exactly? Just search a ton of flights until you find one that goes through the destination? On a similar note, sometimes round trip flights can be significantly cheaper than one-way. Last year I needed a one-way flight from Chile to Argentina, but paid $160 for round trip instead of over $400 for a one-way (same airline (LAN), same cities, same date). I just never showed up for my return flight. Not sure why or how often this kind of pricing happens, but it seems absurd. It's also a violation of your contract with the airline and can result in you losing your frequent flier miles or a lawsuit.  How do you get your baggage if you're on a connecting flight? It gets sent right through to the destination, right? The thing is that no only will the airline hate you but so will everyone else on the connecting flight because they will hold the plane, sometimes for over an hour, to try and find you. So yeah, it will certainly work but you're gonna make a lot of people annoyed or frustrated. But I suppose if you're planning on doing this you don't particulalrly care about that anyway. You fly with nicer airlines than I do. I've repeatedly had to sprint across large airports because I had a connecting flight in ten minutes and the gate agents where I arrived informed me that the connecting flight would not wait even a second.  Yea, methinks someone is full of shit.  I've never had a flight in my life that offered to slow down for anyone.  I'm also notoriously late for everything I do. Wow that blows. Air Canada (in my experience) has held a number of flights for people. As has KLM. Obviously, it will depend on the circumstance of the flight and how many people are on board etc but yeah not having them wait even a second is pretty crappy. Unless you're the President of the US flying on Air Force One, nobody is going to hold a plane for an hour to let you on late. Bank of America and Chase Bank will notarize your documents for free, even if you are not their customer. Came to say this as well. Did mine last week at a Chase. Got their spiel about how I should join, I listened, got a folder with me home, paid $0 for a whole bundle of stuff. I'll still never use Chase. I usually just use Taco Corp. And if you aren't B of A's customer, you are lucky. TD as well Bank of America can suck my left nut for how they handled my mortgage loan--bought it from the original bank and sold it to the vicious Green Tree debt servicing company (no, I was never behind or in any kind of trouble).  After I used the HARP program to lower my rate, I was jumping for joy that I no longer had to deal with those assholes.

Until B of A *again* bought my loan, and *again* sold it to Green Tree servicing.  So I'm back to dealing with the same hateful, awful company, although my payments are a bit lower now.

Consequently, I don't feel guilty at all for having abused Bank of America's notary service the one time I needed something notarized on a Saturday. How about a secret tip that pleases a whole profession?

Here it is:  The error messages on a computer tell you what is wrong.

May not seem very secret to you, but you try asking any given caller at a tech support help desk what the error message said and 999 out of a thousand you get a blank pause until they admit they did not read it. In most cases, this is a tall order. Fucking BSODs give you like 6 seconds to memorize or write down a fifteen digit error code. It's not even BSODs mate.  I have no shit, taken tech support calls where I ask them to replicate, then read the error message out and it's read some super simple shit like "out of paper error". PC LOAD LETTER!? What the fuck does that mean??? Because of you, I'm reminded to rewatch that movie. Thank you, good sir or madam. It is stored in the dump file (.dmp)  it can be interpreted with free debugger software from Microsoft.  Or use your phone camera :)  And for the love of god, don't just click "OK" on the error clearing it off the screen before you call us.  Fuck's sake.  Even If I know what the error said I'm going to make your replicate it, just for principle's sake.  You may thank software developers for this. If you can just mindlessly click away 90% of messages without having any negative consequences, you get a habit to do so. I'm a computer scientist with specialisation in usability and modern software literally conditions untrained people to click away error messages. I like to call it "error message blindness."  I've had people swear up and down that they didn't even get an error message despite the fact that I watched them click "OK" on it. 

So yeah... whenever our developer suggests adding another pop-up I just glare.  but they disappear and are never cut and paste. wtf!  ^ That right there.  For the love of whatever you hold holy, why don't they make an error message that can be copied?

 Exactly!!!! Who has a pen handy to write that shit down? Hit print screen and then paste it to your email. I usually do this at work when emailing our tech support people. I had a co-worker who called an IT guy in to look at a printer error that literally, verbatim, said "Out of paper." Not an error on the PC either but on the actual printer display itself. The box of paper was right next to the printer, with its obviously empty paper tray, which he was standing in front of. The IT guy filled the paper tray in total silence and walked away. My dog could have solved that problem.  No one ever reads anything. 

Hey how does this work? 

What does it say?

"Press enter."

Did you press enter?

No.

....


*Dammit mobile formatting Little tip on how to write down that error code quickly before it disappears- hit the print screen button on your keyboard and then open Microsoft paint and click paste=instant screenshot. I'm pretty sure that's not going to work with a BSOD. My dad does this. Things that pop up, errors and so on? Click to close. 

"what did it say?"

"bah , I don't know!"

How the hell did he get from screenshotting every error and printing it to this, I have no clue.  Plumbers and pex. Before pex, sweating was something that while not terribly difficult people were afraid to try on their own. With pex you turned running supply lines from a $40/hr job into something a 7year old could do effectively. Especially now that the tools cost less then a basic service call.  Just to clarify for Manhattan DIY plumbers, you can't use Pex piping according to NYC building law. It's a fire hazard, chemical hazard, and a noise issue amongst other reasons. The other boroughs have a little more leniency for residential houses and anything under 4 stories I believe. 

Pex doesn't have much of a market within the NYC area.  

Just to hijack - if there are any Mechanics (+8 years) looking for work in the NYC area, mainly Manhattan, PM me.  Seriously? I'd be willing to bet the plumbers union has something to do with that. Because IIRC you can use CPVC in NYC which constitutes all of those hazards and more.  Absolutely does, the Union wants to keep the Plumber's trade a more skill based trade. A good amount of it is politics, but there are some real trade offs as to having Copper pipe and traditional cast iron piping over pex in the city. I can't think of any drawback to pex compared to copper. Maybe the extra puncture resistance of galvanized but that is about it.  less profitable for politically connected trade cartels. You want to talk about trade cartels, my friend was a journeyman electrician and had an electrical engineering degree. When he moved from Massachusetts to Minnesota they told him he would have to go back to school, redo his education, and redo his apprenticeship if he wanted to work in MN.  Pex is all around better. Copper likes to develop pin hole leaks on hot lines, especially if there is a recirculation system. Its also nice and quiet if you install it properly.

Source: I'm a plumber. Only bad thing is that PEX sags more so you need more support. I like soldering copper though, one of my favourite things to do.  it is satisfying watching that little bead of solder go into the join.  and it looks so pretty when its done Welding nerds! I think most sweat or threaded copper fittings are rated to 600PSI and copper is really durable stuff that has a long history of successful construction as well.

PEX hasn't been used as much and I imagine a lot of people remember the polybutylene fiasco when they think about that, although normal PEX installations all run straight lines to a manifold to minimize fittings. You cannot use CPVC in the city either Well that is good at least. I would think they would love pex because there is no risk of burning the building down during repairs.  It's freeze resistance would also be nice in NY.  Pex expands. Up to 40 or 50 % if I remember correctly. Pex is sweet to work with and durable  Among other reasons why Local 1 opposes pex is the problems with the fittings bursting, and the susceptibility to leaks from a water hammer effect; less of an issue in a single family dwelling but when you get to multifamily dwellings water hammer can be a real prablem. Another big thing about pex and cpvc being illegal to use in Manhattan is the rampant rat problem. Rats can easily get through pex and cpvc. This also goes for Romex wiring.  Have to lug heavy BX around for any outlet.  I'm having PTSD flashbacks about carrying 250ft rolls of BX from Lendy Electric to 6th Ave to get on the 5 back to Midtown because the company supply truck was unavailable... damn rats. I bet there are thousands of old buildings there still running 20 year old galvanized steel pipes too.  All the steel pipes I replaced in buildings were 90% blocked up from rust and deposit buildup.  Truly disgusting.  You couldn't pay me to drink the water from most apartment buildings running those pipes. I work in a lot of pre war buildings, and yes it's true. It brings in tons of business. It's not easy to just over hall an entire buildings pipe system. A lot of these management companies want to solve the problems only when there are leaks - I have to sometimes fight by convincing them when a renovation is being done that replacing some of the existing valves/pipes is beneficial. 

The city is a gold mine of OLD OLD pipe systems ready to be replaced at the fault of every leak.  Just replaced a 6" galvanized water main last weekend. It was pretty gross inside. Everything is illegal, that's why everyone in that city is an unrepentant criminal.  Such a fucking shithole. &gt; pex

what is that? http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cross-linked_polyethylene

Basically it's a semi rigid pipe mostly used for water. It has basically replaced copper over the last few years because instead of having to cut and sweat (solder) copper pipes you can cut it with a fancy pair of scissors and you just use a plastic nipple and crimp a ring onto it to make joints. I can literally replumb an entire house in 3 or 4 hours with this stuff. Plus copper costs about $1.50/ft this stuff costs about $0.25/ft. And since it's flexible you can bend and thread it through tough places. It's also almost burst proof so even if it freezes it will just stretch and then go back to it's normal size once it thaws.  &gt;  I can literally replumb an entire house in 3 or 4 hours with this stuff.

My pipes are fine, and I want to replumb my house now. Lol, the nice thing about replumbing a house is that you can build some really nice manifolds in the basement. I have individual shut offs for every run (bathroom, kitchen, etc) and a pressure balancing system so if I turn on a sink and shower they both run evenly. I also did a passive hot water circulator so that when I turn on a fixture on the far end of the house the water gets hot within a couple seconds.  Nice. Plumbing is one of those things that I think the builders cheaped out on in my place, 

It's 20 years old, and I've had to replace several lines under sinks already. The places I haven't fixed show signs of previous water damage. And that's the bitch of water. Ignore a structural repair for years. Bad electrical problem? No big deal, shut off that breaker. Fix it whenenever.

Water leak? It's going to screw up something within an hour, tops.  This is a sexy paragraph. I've wanted to replumb our 1922 home with PEX since my first IRL exposure. The 1920s house we just moved into had all the plumbing replaced with PEX before we bought it. It's pretty cool. How much did the hot water loop affect your gas bill? Not even noticeable, It only circulates at 2 GPM and the water is still pretty hot when it gets back to the heater.  Cool. He said hot. wanna know the cool part?  it just snaps together like lego, and it comes apart just as easily.  so, if you fuck up, you can just take i apart and try again. Got it in my new house - fucking amazing stuff.  Kitchen has cantilever, and was poorly insulated - pipes froze last year.  No damage, everything working just fine! I wouldn't let it freeze to many times. It'll get pin holes or eventually bust I did fix the insulation. :) Good to hear. Did you go traditional insulation spray foam or blow in? Traditional fiberglass with some spray-foam around the edges of the cantilever to make sure it's air tight.  It's very much a homemade solution, but it is working very well!

I also put some foam-rubber insulation around the pex tubing in there, to make damned sure it won't freeze again. Any major downsides?  Durability? The durability is insane, I once saw a demo where they took a 1' piece of pex and used a torch to heat it up. They used a jig to stretch it to like 4' and then unhooked it. Over the course of a few minutes it shrank back to original size and other then some scorch marks was just fine. Then they hooked it up and pressurized it with water. It held just fine. I have seen dozens of houses frozen solid with pex and the only damage ever present is when the metal fixtures burst. 

There was a problem with the stuff in the late 90's breaking down under UV light, but they have fixed that.  That's awesome.  If I ever manage to be a homeowner I'll highly look into it. Pain in the arse doing diy though. Shows up on exactly zero stud detectors. Let me just put a picture here...  that is why you don't hang pictures with a 3" nail. Dry board walls are not my friend. 

I used command picture fixings now. 

Haven't worked out how to hang my driftwood framed sea picture, though. It weighs just under 6kg... drywall anchor and a bit of piano wire.  cool, thanks! flexible plastic water pipe, cuts with a sharp blade, and is joined to barbed connectors using steel clamp rings or sharkbit compression fittings which require no tools at all.  it also allows reduced fittings because it can be bent instead of using a 90 or 45 degree elbow. I think the rings are actually copper. And I wouldn't bend the pipe to a 90 unless it had a lot room for the pipe. It puts quite a bit of stress on it. I googled looks like a kind of pipe? I haz confuse too and as a homeowner of an older home, am curious. That's exactly what it is. It's water pipe. It also expands and will not burst when it freezes. It's amazing, and amazingly cheap. Its color coded plastic pipe comes in 3/4" or 1" at 10' sticks or 50' rolls usually . easy to install if the studs are exposed. You literally run it like you would Romex spade bit on a drill and push it through. Its moderately flexible so you can get it in where you need it. You plumb it in to a box that has a nice cover kinda like a breaker box and you have the ability to shut off individual lines like you would throw a breaker to rewire something. You can usually rent the crimping tool for the fittings or go with the shark bites that are essentially plug and play. Its sweet stuff. Amazing freeze resistance and ease of installation and repair. Can't recommend it enough. The color codes BTW are red for hot water lines and blue for cold. Pex is easy as hell and nearly fun to put together, however the Pex crimper is NOT a cheap tool.  You'll probably need to rent that from somewhere. Go with shark bites and Gatorade bites you don't even need the tool push pop your in! Those connectors are expensive. For bigger jobs, it's better to buy the crimping tools I heard a rumor that the rubber used in those connectors will eventually fail in 40-ish years... something I definitely wouldn't want to happen behind a wall. 

If you're a plumber and I'm wrong, please chime in.  I'm an engineer that has done feasibility work with the Sharkbite connections as a replacement for copper.

The likely failure modes of the system are the o-ring inside deteriorating and the mechanical connection failing under tension. The tension you would typically see in a properly installed system for a house is nowhere near failure point. However, the o-ring can and will deteriorate over time due to a combination of vibration and chemical incompatibility with the fluid being carried. 40 years is an optimistic estimate in my opinion, and if you absolutely cannot have water damage, I would say preventative replacement on the order of every 15-20 years is a better bet. Your results may vary.

Pros will use the special tools and bash the sharkbite, typically. In practice, the sharkbite system will work for a decade or more. If there is a chemically-neutral mineral buildup covering the o-ring and/or vibration of the tubes is minimal, it could last much longer.

Short version: if it is going behind a wall, the job is big enough to warrant buying the special tool and skipping the sharkbite. I know I seen some leak from vibration, ive seen a 3/4 elbow coupling break off and flood an apartment to high hell(totally broke off the inside)never the best to use but like some were saying with pex, a 4 year old could put one together, I heard plumbers saying it is hurting their trade Honestly, if engineering has superseded complication and manual labor, I'm all for it.

PEX is also quieter, cheaper, easier to use, easier to label (pick your colors!), and has a higher tolerance than copper. And you can buy a spool of PEX where you'd otherwise have to carry long lengths of copper pipe along with various joints and what not. 

Any market will be constantly changing, and it's up to the people who make the industry happen to adapt to new standards.  New technology should be embraced, not disregarded. Stubbornness is a good way to be out of a job.  True enough, but the early versions of PEX would crack and explode in your walls.  Seems that the plastic was UV sensitive and bubbas would leave rolls laying around the jobsite or in the back of their trucks and it would get brittle. There were also a lot of problems with the fittings.

There was a class-action suit on this and many friends of mine had to rip out brand new plumbing in their town homes in the 1990's.

I'll stick to PVC.  At least you can get high off the fumes while you're working on it....

Who can afford copper anymore? I did a replumb for a bank owned property a few weeks ago due to freeze damage. I spent about $175 in materials and the scrap got me about $120 back. This is with copper being really low right now. When copper is up I can replace everything with pex and come out ahead from the scrap.  Does anyone understand what's being said in this thread? I have a short copper pipe coming out of my wall under the kitchen sink that I need to replace the valve on (cold water). There's barely any pipe coming out of the wall. Can I extend it with pex and complete the job with pex? you would still need to sweat on a copper to pex adapter. If it's too close to the wall for you to be comfortable sweating it I would just use a compression fitting.  ok thanks.  &gt; Before pex, sweating was something that while not terribly difficult people were afraid to try on their own.

I thought for sure this was going to be some pun-filled comment that was using "pex" instead of "sex".  Except when I did Pex on a simple job (replacing the hot and cold washing machine taps), the next day I awoke to a flooded basement. Guy at the hardware store had sold me the wrong pipe. how does that even happen?  My house was built last year. Are they likely to have used Pex, or just PVC? (They were all plastic pipes, just not sure if it was pex. I don't remember seeing any bends) I'm most curious because of the 'flexes when water freezes, so no burst pipes' reason, since it's been below freezing here recently. Well it's more then likely pex. If it's any color other then white it's definitely pex. Other then that if it's white it could still be pex, just read the writing on the side of one of the pipes. Other then that you can look at one of the joints. If it's a fitting that slides on the outside of the pipe it's pvc if it is a nipple type that goes inside the pipe it's pex. 

You don't want to let it freeze on purpose because you can still damage your fixtures (faucets, toilets, etc) pretty easily.  &gt; You don't want to let it freeze on purpose because you can still damage your fixtures (faucets, toilets, etc) pretty easily

Well, the fixtures are all in the house, which is kept plenty warm to prevent freezing, with the exception of the gardening hose spigots.

It looks like all the feed lines are color coded (red for hot, blue for cold), and they're flexible, so pex. The drain lines look like they're all PVC (white with outside-like fittings, non-flexible). That sound right? ya drain lines are almost always PVC but there is usually no risk of them freezing (they are not full of water). So it sounds like you have pex, again though I wouldn't worry about it but at the same time I would try to prevent it from freezing because you never know what can happen. The problem when pipes freeze is not the actual freezing it's the expansion of the ice that causes the liquid water to become more pressurized. Since water does not compress it pushes out against the weak point of it's containment. So theoretically if you have a 50 foot run of pex and your kitchen faucet at the end even if it freezes 20 feet from the faucet it can push against the liquid water enough to damage the faucet. It's kind of hard to explain. &gt; So theoretically if you have a 50 foot run of pex and your kitchen faucet at the end even if it freezes 20 feet from the faucet it can push against the liquid water enough to damage the faucet. 

No, I get it. Explains why they say to leave a faucet dripping, which didn't make sense to me before, but leaving one open a bit allows for the pressure to escape *somewhere* instead of building up at the fixtures. Good to know! Thanks! yup, plus moving water is less likely to freeze. yup  had to replace my bathroom.  it was about as hard as playing Lego.

its a pleasure to cut, it snaps together like Lego, and its bendy so you don't need all those fittings.  no torch needed, no solder, nothing but that cute little horshoe shaped removal tool. Our local Ace even loans me the tools.   Go ahead and chince on your water piping. Thats if you like living in an aquarium and you don't mind gambling with your home. 
DON'T try to do your own plumbing, electrical, ect. You wanna paint or sprinkle grass seed. Go for it!!! But dont let anyone convince you that "you can do it. The home depo can help". Plumber here Lol, hate to break it to you but running supply lines is no longer a skilled. craft.  Pex is pretty much idiot proof. Hell I once forgot to crimp a ring when I added a line in my basement, it held pressure for nearly 8 months until it got warm in the summer and started to drip.  Not a lawyer, but the insanity ploy.

No, it doesn't work. It almost never works and it is not in any way an instant and perfect defense. It has worked perhaps less than 0.1 % of all times it has actually been used, and even then I wouldn't define the result as winning the case.

To successfully pull the insanity gambit, you must have an expert to declare that your client is insane. Having gotten them, your expert must now undergo strict scrutiny by the prosecutor, the judge, and the jury if you have one, on why your expert thinks your client is insane. Having proven this, you must now prove that their insanity is to such a degree that they could not have been in any control of their actions.

Think this solves your problems? No, this isn't the movies. You've just proven a man's insane, why would we let him go free? He now has to undergo psychiatric evaluation, likely ending in him being sent to an institution for a period longer than what his sentence might have been, if not an indefinite one under discretion of psychiatric experts.

Any time any client suggests this to their lawyer - unless they are actually *that* insane, which makes the suggestion unlikely - they will likely get turned down. Any time a client demands his lawyer to try it, they almost always will be given a choice of not using the play or of getting a different lawyer. If they have no choice, they will make clear to the court that they do not want to do this. When you hear a lawyer say: "My client has instructed me to..." it usually means "Please don't think I'm actually stupid enough to do this by whim." I heard a segment on public radio of a guy, I think in Europe, who plead insanity to get out of a 2 year jail stint.  He is perfectly sane by his own account of the story.  He's been in a psych ward for 6 years now, and no signs of getting out because his therapists won't give him a clean bill of mental health. This American Life (ironically enough). The guy was in Britain and he is being held for being a sociopath, since only a sociopath would lie about being mentally insane to avoid a minor jail term. It's a sick catch-22 Last time this came up on Reddit on a TIL, someone posted an in-depth article by some journalist that talked about how he's not being kept in because "only a sociopath would try to use an insanity defense to get out a a 2-year jail stint"- that part was just him being an idiot, and both he and the doctors know it.  He's being kept in because, in addition to being an idiot, he is legitimately a sociopath, and they have a bunch of test results and independent evaluations to prove it. But we don't put people in institutions for being sociopaths Suppose it depends on the percived risk.  We put them in office, instead! Granted, almost all those tests are bogus, if not all. You would be stuck there, I probably would, and every single one of the workers in institutions would be unable to prove they are sane. It isn't proving that you're sane, it's proving that you're not a dangerous psychopath. Other than the fairly obvious interactions psychopaths have with others in group sessions, there are neurochemical tests that can suggest the presence of psychological issues. While everyone I've ever met would have some variance from the "sane" norm, most of them would test as acceptably different. Psychopaths, however, don't. Once you are in, they  almost never [let you out](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rosenhan_experiment) Oh, I wholeheartedly agree that there needs to be extreme changes in the hospitalization of the mentally ill. I believe that blood testing should be standard for ongoing diagnosis of most illnesses, but my point was that psychopaths are fairly obvious in their mannerisms, and that the tests to prove someone is a psychopath are very straightforward. 

The smart, suave manipulator is rarely the form of psychopath one encounters, thankfully. Usually their mannerisms are stilted, and they interact in a guarded, almost angrily fearful way. Granted, quite a few career criminals act like this, but considering their line of work... &gt;  Usually their mannerisms are stilted, and they interact in a guarded, almost angrily fearful way.

That makes me wonder if I am a psychopath Probably not. I forgot who the person was by name, but he was a famous sociologist who stayed in a mental institution for a month to write a paper about the state of mental health facilities. He would sit at a table, pull out his papers and go to work. The staff would ask him what he was doing and he would state he was a professor from x university abd he was writing a scientific journal. The staff didn't believe him because he was in an insane asylum, even though he was not insane and told them exactly who he was and what he was doing. 

EDIT: I believe the sociologist was Erving Goffman and his book was called Asylum. There is a good part about his on the abstract section of the wikipedia page.
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Asylums_%28book%29
 I remember reading about this. His "compulsive note-taking behavior" was used to justify his diagnosis. Link? Added a link to what I believe was the sociologist and book. the guy got out of jail. he was a case study in Jon Ronsons book- The Psycopath Test. read it just recently, really interesting stuff he ended up doing like 9 years before they finally deemed him fit for release. I forgot who the person was by name, but he was a famous sociologist who stayed in a mental institution for a month to write a paper about the state of mental health facilities. He would sit at a table, pull out his papers and go to work. The staff would ask him what he was doing and he would state he was a professor from x university and he was writing a scientific journal. The staff didn't believe him because he was in an insane asylum, even though he was not insane and told them exactly who he was and what he was doing. 

EDIT:
The sociologist I believe was Erving Goffman and his book was Asylum. There is a good part about this in the extract section of the wiki page.
Didn't go through the first time I guess
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Asylums_%28book%29 And if you've read the book, it's pretty damned close to the literal Catch-22. 

&gt; Orr would be crazy to fly more missions and sane if he didn't, but if he was sane, he had to fly them. If he flew them, he was crazy and didn't have to; but if he didn't want to, he was sane and had to. I'd say only an idiot would do it. Sociopaths are smarter than that most of the time. I believe you're referring to This American Life [episode 385, Act 1](http://www.thisamericanlife.org/radio-archives/episode/385/pro-se?act=1). Jesus christ, that's brutal.
 Well, it's gotta be hard to convince them you're "better" when you haven't changed. If someone I trust to get this shit right hands me a normal guy and say "watch this guy, he may not look it but he's actually insane," How am I gonna know when he's "better?" I won't! Heck, he'll probably appear to get worse, and then lobotomized, thus inspiring his friend The Chief to escape by throwing a fountain through a window.  My English teacher was a good acquaintance of Ken Kesey, so she always loves teaching that book.  There was a rather revealing study on this subject:
[Rosenhan Experiment](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rosenhan_experiment)

TL;DR:
A Stanford University Professor of Clinical Psychology and some colleagues admitted themselves to various mental institutions under false pretenses.  Then admitted to the staff the false pretenses and their identities to gauge the staff's level of response and time until correct diagnosis (Release). Average of 19 days and these were well known professionals.  Exactly what he deserves. &gt; He is perfectly sane by his own account of the story

Sounds like a completely reliable source to me. Isn't that a similar story to One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest?

http://www.imdb.com/title/tt0073486/ My biggest fear in life is being trapped in an insane asylum. I'd rather go to prison. Rather specific, but I know what you mean. In prison at least there is token oversight, prisoner's rights, and a set period of incarceration. None of those are guaranteed for the admitted in asylums. I would not go to a US jail. One of the only things that truly terrifies me is being trapped in a 1950-60s insane asylum with doctors who perform shock treatment therapy.

I don't know what movie I watched as a kid to make me feel that strongly about it. I love American Horror Story and could barely watch season 2 because of this. I actually had to stop playing Bioshock and let my roommate finish the part in the clinic because my brain just noped out of there. Shock treatment (ECT formally) is still done today as the last resort treatment for those rare cases of medication-resistant depression. I've seen YouTube videos of it being done and it's not as bad as how it's made out in movies - it looks like any other treatment you get at a hospital. Also, you're put to sleep before they begin the process. And paralyzed so you don't trash around. Maybe that Wizard of Oz sequel. Dorothy was sent to an insane asylum to be given electric shock b/c she won't stop talking about the Land of Oz. Pretty fucked up. Requiem for a dream? I had actually already started working at the movie theater when that movie came out. And, yeah, I didn't stick around long when I was walking movies during that part. [One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest](http://www.imdb.com/title/tt0073486/) You probably watched One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest, since your first sentence is pretty much a description of the movie. You're in luck, insane asylums don't really exist anymore. There's psychiatric wards in normal hospitals, but the big ol' asylums you see in movies are obsolete. 

With that said, a lot of the mentally ill that left after insane asylums closed down ended up homeless or in prison.

**Edit:** Quick clarification. When I meant insane asylums don't exist anymore, I meant as institutions. Many of the physical buildings themselves are still around but are abandoned, and there are a few psychiatric hospitals still functioning, but the mass use of asylums to "warehouse" patients is obsolete. For more info, see [Deinstitutionalization](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Deinstitutionalisation). My mother was a nurse at a psychiatric hospital until 3 years ago. She has worked on the geriatric unit, mostly dementia patients, and the unit for the criminally insane. She told me the worst thing to do is be sane and use that olea, because the place is worse than prison for both patients and nurses.  Was there abuse of the patients and/or staff? Most everyone on that particular unit needed to be there. My mom was in court way too much because of nurses getting stabbed, hit, bit, ect. At the hospital the security guards couldn't restrain a patient, only a nurse could.

I have met a ton of doctors from that hospital, and they were all compassionate,  respectful people who treated patients the way they my should be treated: like human beings. it could always be worse. The asylum could be Shalebridge Cradle "Play the race card! Play it!" - Homer Simpson My aunt got out of a hit and run (just car accident, no person injury) due to an insanity plea. In her case, she was previously diagnosed scizophrenic, was possibly changing meds at that time (not positive about this part), and just panicked after it happen.

To get the plea she had to go through a psych evaluation by a court psychologist panel.

Her court appointed defense attorney said this is the first time he had ever seen the panel actually recommend that the court give a person a pass based on mental state.

Still didn't get her off entirely free. She had a year of probation and some community service. Did she lose her driver's license after that? She did not. This was around five years ago so I do not know if it was temporarily suspended.

The accident was no more than a low speed fender bender, something that would only result in a ticket. She also had a clean driving record up to this point. 

In other words, it was not so much her driving that was the big issue, but rather her reaction to mistake. (She is paranoid scizophrenic if that is useful to know.) I'm not lawyer, but I believe what the court gave her a pass on was having any intent to get away with doing something wrong, which in most circumstances is what fleeing the scene means. Wait, are you telling me there is no Sanity Clause? Yesss!! Also, once you've decided to plead insanity, you've also admitted that you committed the act. This means that the burden of proof is generally shifted from the prosecution to the defense. I'm a forensic social worker and I'll give one caveat: mental illness and other psychosocial problems can be used as mitigation during plea bargaining. That's a completely different thing than an insanity plea, but it does fall in the category of using psychiatric issues to get a better deal. A lot of the time, the DA or judge will be sympathetic and let my clients enroll in psych/drug programs in lieu of incarceration. But what if I, like, look all crazy and stuff and take off my pants in court? That works, right? Pretty sure that in Texas they feel that insanity is all the more reason to fry 'em. In principle you are correct. However, it is sometimes possible to convince the judge that you were temporarily insane or in any other state that defeats blameworthiness, in which case you could be released without any consequences.

In a rare landmark case the defendant got free from murder charges after claiming that he was asleep while killing his wife. Very true. I was using the word "insane" more of the functionally insane instead of the temporarily unsound mind that usually falls under crimes of passion. That sleepwalker case, was it ruled insanity? Because a temporary leave of senses and insanity are legally defined as rather different in many states and nations. Well, if there is no intent to murder then one can't be convicted. So, if for some reason one believed one was killing a dog or an alien or fighting a vampire... but, good luck proving it. In case of sleep walking there is no act to begin with, and thus it was unnecessary to even consider things like intention and possible defenses. An act in criminal law entails a "willed bodily movement", and anything that is done while sleeping can hardly be described as voluntary. I feel like the high perception of insanity defenses is largely down to how much they come up in high-profile trials.  It's going to be easier to claim (and more likely true that) your client is insane if they killed and ate a dozen people, and they're probably so screamingly guilty that there's really no other plea to resort to.

A bunch of 2-bit criminals see that on TV and figure it's a sweet deal, not realizing that their situation is different and that insanity doesn't even work in the high-profile cases.

Maybe we could balance it by showing people *One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest*?  "Yeah, he beat the rap, but now he's doing 5 years on a mental ward instead of 6 months in minimum." Oh, they have their place. It's just that their place is "For when the client is well and truly mentally fucked up." &gt; It's going to be easier to claim (and more likely true that) your client is insane if they killed and ate a dozen people

That doesn't actually matter since the person is going to be undergoing professional assessments. The thing with the insanity plea is that it isn't about proving the defendant is insane, it's about proving that when the person did the crime they were so mentally out of it that they had no conscious idea what they were doing. That is a difficult thing to prove. Yes, but surely the nature of the crime is relevant?  I'm working on two thoughts here.  The first is that people who've committed truly extreme crimes are more likely to actually be mentally ill than your average purse snatcher.  The second is that I would assume it's easier to claim irrational/unconscious behavior if the crime doesn't have an obvious, self-interested motive (cannibalism is harder to explain than stealing some cash).

I don't know legal details of getting an insanity judgement, this is basically an assumption based on what the crimes themselves say about the person's mental state. The crime itself doesn't matter. As you said, it can be evidence of a condition, but it has no weight as to whether the plea stands. It should also be understood that an individual with a mental condition can still be guilty of a crime. Even if you have a disorder, if the fact finder decides that you were competent to understand what you were doing, then you are guilty and an insanity plea doesn't work, regardless of if you actually have a disorder (although the more severe disorders almost guarantee that you weren't competent).  One point that I think a lot of people confuse: the difference between entering a plea of not guilty by mental disease or defect/insanity and being competent to stand trial.

Using insanity as a defense is a claim that, during the commission of the crime you were mentally incapacitated and thus not responsible for your actions.

Competency has to do with your mental state at the time of trial; are you capable of understanding the charges against you and assisting in your own defense.

Example 1 - Joe Axemurderer is a normal dude. Joe has a psychotic break and murders his family with an axe. After the crime Joe is no longer psychotic. Joe is using the insanity defense as he was "insane" at the time of the crime. If successful, Joe will go to a hospital until he's not a threat to the community. Once he is no longer a threat he is to be released.

Example 2 - Joe Axemurderer is a bad dude having a bad day and hacked his family to death. After the act Joe lost his marbles and went catatonic. Joe is not fit to stand trial at this time, and will be remitted to the care of a secure psychiatric hospital until such time as he is able to stand trial. This will not excuse Joe from the crime, albeit the defense team will use it to suggest otherwise. If Joe is found guilty he goes to the joint (or the chair).

Example 3 - Joe Axemurder is crazier than a shithouse rat. Joe hacks his family to death and then plays rodeo with their steaming entrails. Joe is not competent to stand trial, and even if he was, Joe is on another planet. Joe will be spending a lot of time in a hospital. However, if he were suddenly competent to stand trial and no longer a homicidal maniac, Joe would go to trial and, if found not guilty by MDoD, would be held until he is no longer a threat to himself or others.  Yes, thank you. I didn't elaborate the first scenario because most people don't associate it with the insanity defense, but it certainly applies, though some call them "crimes of passion".  Happy cake day :) Hey, thanks.  Reminds me of a scene in [training day] (https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EJqSJ2jXEU0#t=60) But if you insist on the insanity ploy even after the lawyer says it won't work, maybe you really are insane.  Don't they really just have to prove the client was insane, to the extent to detailed, at the time of the commission if the crime? Because most people that talk about insanity pleas, in my experience, are usually talking about temporary insanity. Can confirm is not lawyer: used "ploy" where he should have used "plea."  

"How do you ploid?"  
"I ploy insoynity!" I know it's called a plea. I used "ploy"  as in gambit. The whole phrase is "not guilty by virtue of insanity", or some variation of that, so "insanity plea" isn't entirely correct, either.  Come on Chief! Don't you wanna be free, like the eagle?! "My client has instructed me to tell you that he's crazy" One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest That was one of the plot points in "One flew over the Cuckoo's nest"

McMurphy thinks he has it made in the asylum, until one inmate tells him that in prison, they only have you for however long your sentence is. There, they have you for however long the doctor wants you.  And if you think you can just "get sane" and be released somehow under the discretion of psychiatric experts, you might want to familiarize yourself with the [Rosenhan experiment.](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rosenhan_experiment?again) Literally Primal Fear. Yep, unless you're literally The Joker it won't work.  On the other hand being up front with what was happening might get diminished responsibilities recognised by the court if you happen to be loaded up on prescribed meds or such when it happened.  That last paragraph is a nice Catch-22. This one is almost getting away with it:
http://www.montrealgazette.com/news/Retrial+Turcotte+Supreme+Court+Canada+refuses+hear+case/9640153/story.html Issei Sagawa murdered and partially ate a girl while he was studying abroad in France, plead insanity, was eventually extradited, released into Japanese custody and released after psychologists ruled he was not insane.

It's kind of a weird isolated incident that has way more to do with the wealth of his father, IMO, than the success of the insanity plea. I once saw a lady plead Insanity in Traffic Court... that was fun. An insanity *ploy* almost never works, but people frequently are not prosecuted for reason of incompetency *because* they are insane.

A quick and easy rule of thumb is that if your client tells you he is insane, he likely is not. Everyone I've 10.77'ed (competency evaluation) is immediately and obviously "off" for some reason or another. The last guy accused me of being an agent of the prosecutor and demanded to see my under-tongue recording device; then he told me he has immunity in the United States from prosecution.

There's another step missing here too. Rehabilitation. A psych eval for a court will *always* include an opinion as to whether the person can be mentally rehabilitated such that they can stand trial anyway. I never really understood that because it's kind of pointless - i.e. if they are incompetent but rehabilitable, then even if rehabilitated, they would still have a (possibly temporary) insanity defense.   Every episode of Law and Order SVU

&gt;He's pleading insanity

&gt;FUCK In Denver fortunes have been spent to try to prove James Holmes (Aurora theater shooter) was/is insane. It's the only way to save him from the death penalty.   I think it's possible to get disciplined by the Bar if you try this with blatant disregard too. It shocks me how many people think a successful insanity defense is some kind of get out of punishment for free card What does that have to do with this thread? It's a trick that many think is useful, but it isn't, and the majority of the legal profession hates it when it is brought up. I understand that what you might have been looking for were the effective tricks, but this one technically qualifies in the scope of the thread. Attorneys hate him! This one simple trick can destroy your credibility and turn your five-year felony into a lifelong waking nightmare! Unless you're in for life otherwise, you don't want to plead insanity. It's much *much* worse than prison. As a real estate agent I hate when other agents use their phones to take pictures. Hire the professional photographer to do that.  Your client hired a "professional" to help them sell their house instead of trying to sell it on their own. Front the money and treat your client right. Hire the photographer.  I heard in the real-estate industry that it is advantageous to find an independent contractor to the the home inspection when considering purchasing a home.  The alternative is likely someone who is friendly/familiar with the agent and willing to overlook certain things in order to facilitate a sale.  Nothing egregious but things that could cost a lot of money down the road like plumbing/electrical and foundation issues.

Do you find this to be true?  What is your opinion of a client of yours getting their own home inspector who is a royal pain-in-the-ass but professional thorough? Home inspections are always a good idea.  It is pretty common for agents to recommend home inspectors and other service providers.  They do that for any number of reasons. I have a few that I would pass along to any buyer because I know they do a good job.  Not because they overlook things to get the the sale done. The same goes with other services....home warranty, mortgage, title companies, etc.  I'm not looking for the now business, I'm looking toward the future.  It doesn't help me to screw someone over for the now business.  I only recommend the good people. 

When it comes down to it I'm not the one buying the home.  My client is.  If my client chooses to use the people I recommend that is awesome.  If they choose to find their own people that is awesome too.  Like I said I'm not the one buying a house.  It isn't my show.

There are only a few things I won't budge on when it comes to working with a buyer.  If the buyer won't talk with a lender and get pre approved, I'm not going to work with them.  If they are unwilling to sign a contract with my brokerage stating that I represent them, I'm not going to work with them.  My time is important to me.

I also always strongly encourage people to find a back up lender.   What about the middle ground? Buy a DSLR and keep it in your work vehicle. Cameras aren't that complicated. Older agents will tell you they've been doing it since the film days. I do agree with you though, anyone taking photos on their phone shouldn't be selling your home.  That would be better than taking pictures with a phone.  I would like to learn to take pictures in case there is ever a time when I need to get a home on the MLS quick and can't have the photographer go in for a few days. Not hard at all. You can just grab a modern DSLR, switch it to auto and shoot away. If you're paying for a photographer you're wasting money, IMO. Spend a few hundred on a nice camera and save with your business AND have a camera that can take lowlight and action shots without breaking a sweat. These things are light-years beyond the cameras 10 years ago, and we were using em then. A floppy disk Sony mavca like this: http://img.xcitefun.net/users/2012/11/307297,xcitefun-floppy-disk-camera-2.jpg As a graphic designer, I hate when people use the "live trace" function in Illustrator and call it a job done. 

Even if the average eye doesn't catch it from afar, most designers can definitely tell.  Not a designer, what does that mean? "Live trace" is a function that turns a drawing or a photo into vector points with a few button presses. It has a lot of settings that you have to play around with. If you simply "live trace" something, you'll end up with a file that has a million points and can cause serious problems with printers and relevant sources.

The only real application is if you do a detailed illustration or line artwork and play around with it. Otherwise, you should always try scanning or uploading an image into illustrator and following it with the pen tool. Not a designer, what does that mean? A vector file is like connect the dots, where you can specify how you want your lines to continue, such as in a curve or an angle. Because there's no pixels being worked with, you can zoom in and out indefinitely without a loss in quality.

By using a live trace function, Illustrator tries to take an image and turn it into these points. Anything close to accurate leads to points being EVERYWHERE, which results in large file sizes. It also creates bad points, since it's a computer.

While it is a "vector file", it's an unoptimized one. It's a bad process and should only be used for extremely detailed work that's already been done with better illustrating programs - and even after that, the file will need hours of cleanup. another designer here; can confirm. although, it's handy with tight deadlines and such  Not a designer, what does that mean? Cut shit out by hand instead of having the computer do it automatically. It takes more time, but it looks better and saves space. Slow down guy, we're not all designers here. Not a guy, what does this mean? Oh, ok. A magic door Designer here; can confirm. A vector can be scaled to any size without distortion. There's something about the way vector images print as well, but I don't feel like looking it up.  But, if you have a bitmap that you want turned into a vector, what are you supposed to do? Trace it with the pen tool I assume the end result looks somewhat similar to the photoshop filter that does something along those lines (sans actually making vector points)? Not really. The end result is fairly accurate, until you zoom in or blow it up even a hair, in which you can see rounded corners and lots of jagged edges.

Imagine drawing a circle made out of straight lines. I don't think your circle analogy is correct. I only have inkscape, but even it has a "rounding" option where it will do round object with a curve, and it usually doesn't have that many points either (unless some idiot put a picture of a person in it or something...) His point is the live trace amateurs don't know about those features and leave it with a million vectors of straight lines when the use  of a few tools would greatly simplify the number of vector points. Vector graphics are required to scale images accurately either to the size of a business card all the way to being on a billboard, without any kind of fuzzy borders that appear if you were to say copy an image from the web and then blow it up. Illustrator has a button that will "auto vector" an image that you open. however, many people smack the button and call it a job well done. while it's technically now a vector graphic, there are things important to vector illustrations this can leave out, or make the image incredibly complex and tough to edit further I'm not an expert but on Illustrator you can press a button called 'Image trace' which will turn an image into a vector illustration (i.e. can be resized infinitely and is made of coloured shapes rather than pixels.) There are several gradients of complexity so some look quite unlike the original image. It makes the photo look a bit like an illustration, but is a 1-click process, hardly something a professional should be calling a finished job. It's a function in a popular design program that traces an image for you Live Trace is just the first step. There is a shit-ton of work after that replacing sections of millions of points with one proper line or curve. Most times it's easier to just get the pen tool and do it yourself.  That's a much better way to do it.  Trace it, and then start working it, building and deconstructing.  Like digital clay. 

Turning an LT into something sleek and tidy is a great learning tool, actually. Amen. There was one graphic I can remember being displayed on the coverage of the last olympics that was absolutely horrid. Knowing somebody got paid for that made me want to punch myself I did this trying to get a job. I did not get the job. I use live trace for my illustrations sometimes, but that's after meticulously drawing it so live trace doesnt fuck it up.  Examples of an image to which this has been done? Ehhh live trace isn't so bad on properly prepared artwork, but I hear you. What some people consider passable I find appalling. I cannot tell you how many times this has saved my ass at my old job lol For original artwork I definitely see no reason you couldn't use live trace. It has a desirable effect for some projects. But as others have said, anything other than original artwork i'd say no. It's awful. I've never seen/used that before.  Thanks!  :P Why does it matter if designers can notice it? Could an average person? An average person might not be able to say "that's live traced" but might subconsciously notice that there's something lacking about the art or design Just doing LT and calling it done is like running a photoshop filter on a picture and calling it original art.  You're not even trying.  You gotta at least try. If it's indistinguishable to the end user why does effort matter? As a non graphic designer, when I discovered that feature, I was super pumped.  I want to become a graphic designer and have just realized how easy it is to spot "live trace only" projects, I've used it a few times here and there but only for a quick little poster for myself, long story short I understand where you are coming from lol For those of us who aren't in the biz, what's a "live trace" in illustrator? As a digital printer operator thank you. Our graphics department is always taking shortcuts and we notice. bad media boxes or overlays or whatever shortcut they always take are a pain in the ass in the putting it on paper process. Live trace is a great tool at times, but people with Illustrator experience can tell when you've done nothing but run the LT, versus when you've used it as a platform to build from. Little tiny bits and random points everywhere. Current graphic designer in training here. This is my fear for clients who don't want to pay.. It's so easy to tell if they live traced a small picture. There are times where that tool is useful, but only when used responsibly.  We were shown that in school...And promptly told if we were found to have used it, we would get a zero. It's nifty, but it's more of a gimmick stylistic effect. There are few things it's effectively useful at. I'm very grateful to that professor. I hate that it usually makes things look like a cornflake. Usually better to do an actual trace with the pen tool. You mean, rather than illustrating an icon or shape by hand, when people Google the image they're looking for and Live Trace it immediately.

I see this way more than I should. Do do live trace right, be sure to play with the parameters of the trace and try different combinations of angle, contrast, and the closeness of the fit before hitting expand. A smaller set of vectors will always make the image look smoother and more professional. I've never seen a live trace that doesn't look like shit or have 50 million vector points that crash everything later on. Live trace is the instagram filter of vector design. Just say no. Live trace only works on smooth high resolution hand drawn artwork that is *made* to be vectorized. This is addressed in later comments. Depends on what your source is.  No. Professional in the field for 20+ years. No. 
Get off your behind and fix it properly. *finger wag* Ironically, "Finger Weg!" is german and means "Hands off!". I like it. Have an orange arrow. First you sketch, then you scan, then you live trace, then you adjust. Has nothing to do with being lazy.  Ha! For completely original art! I'm sorry, you're right. Anything else? Fuck no.

ETA - I also tend to draw many things directly from my Wacom. Yup. If you can do what you want on a Wacom, it'll surely be faster. Not everyone can use a digitizer as well as pen and pencil though. It's taken years and many many many custom brushes. I enjoy drawing with actual irl supplies but it is impractical. I'm a professional illustrator btw so that was not an easy transition. I hear you. For a graphic designer in the Swiss sense of the word, illustrations aren't usually something you do too often, so investing a lot of effort in to learning to use a digitizer might not be feasible. [deleted] More ways than one to skin a goat. I do this because I'm a printer as well as a designer so if someone wants some on say a shirt its a whole lot easier That isn't a weird trick that actually works - you're just complaining about something? AdBlock - advertisers hate him So much that they're suing him [AdBlock](https://getadblock.com/) or [AdBlock Plus](https://adblockplus.org/)? Because they are not the same thing. I believe ABP is being sued due to the way they are conducting their 'acceptable' lists and, a loose paraphrase here, 'are holding advertisers for ransom' [deleted] Uhm...I don't think that's right.

AdBlock *is* closed source but if he (Michael Gundlach) is getting money from companies to unblock ads, they are paying for nothing because I've had it for like 5 years and I have never seen an ad. It even blocks YouTube ads.

I used to have AdBlock Plus, which is the open source one, but I still saw some ads, which is why I switched to AdBlock. AdBlock Plus has a feature which allows you to "Allow non-intrusive advertising". You can disable this feature: https://adblockplus.org/en/acceptable-ads

AdBlock changed to closed source out of the blue one day and there are some concerns with that: https://palant.de/2014/07/29/which-is-better-adblock-or-adblock-plus Be edgy, use Adblock Edge Why not just use Adblock Edge? Seems pretty good to me :/ [Adblock Edge](https://addons.mozilla.org/en-US/firefox/addon/adblock-edge/), yo. That being said, only use it on sites that use obnoxiously obtrusive ads. Disable it on sites like Reddit and Imgur. Also, consider using the EasyList + EasyPrivacy list. Small Website owners too. 
Tho i use it too on Websites with super annoying ads.  I sometimes feel bad for them, but that really doesn't stop me from using adblock plus. Ads are getting way over the top these days and I don't need or want to spend my time watching video ads or clicking out pop up ads. They had their chance to not make it annoying, but they fucked it up, so fuck 'em. Same with privacy. They had the chance to not fuck up tracking, but they did, and displayed silly "by viewing this page you agree that we can give you cookies" that doesn't hold up in court. So now all cookies are blocked by default, too. And giving real name and email addresses I actually use. Fuck 'em all with a ten foot pole. Well, blame the advertising companies for being so damn aggressive. I shut my cable off because it's all but unwatchable at this point and I refuse to put up with the same thing on the internet now. Not going to put up with having 1 minute ads shoved down my throat when browsing 30 second videos. Seriously... find a better way you uncreative chucklefucks.

Although when net neutrality is destroyed guess what happens? What does net neutrality have to do with ads on the internet? Controlled content. When the only available option that's not throttled to hell pays a premium for the right, you had better believe it's going to be locked down with advertising. 

E: To explain that a bit, right now it is possible to block media entirely if it is known that the advertisements are blocked. Most do not go this far as there could be worse things than losing the ad revenue from those that take the effort to block them... as in losing your traffic entirely by going elsewhere. When this option is gone and the only choice you have is to use the services approved by the telecoms it's not going to be much better than cable TV is now. This is what I do. For example, ABP is disabled on reddit, youtube, watch mojo, and twitch because that's where I spend most of my time. But those weird news aggregate sites that I visit only from a link on reddit that have pop-ins and ads that block the screen, best believe it is enabled for them. I disable it when I respect the website.  This is what I've been doing. For sites I like and want to support, it's disabled. Also the setting where you can have it display non-intrusive ads is really cool.  As an advertiser, not really. I don't care if someone uses adblock, in fact I like it. If you go out of your way to install adblock you'd likely have never clicked and converted on an ad anyway, so you not seeing ads is no loss to me. Came here to say this. I have never clicked on internet ads anyway, so by installing an adblocking extension I in no way am affecting anyone negatively.  People who's jobs depend on ad revenue also hate him But, I disabled AdBlock Plus, because it was a memory hog. The whole design of the program is such that it absolutely wastes memory. It's not a bug, it's a part of the design why it does this.

Instead, I use NoScript and FlashBlock. That gets rid of most annoying ads and those that remain are usually not annoying. Not as much as you think. AdBlock is popular but not nearly popular enough for advertisers to worry about. Also, most people using AdBlock are not people who would click on the ads anyways. Impressions (how many time the ad is shown) are good, but not nearly as good as CTR (Click Through Rate).  Check out uBlock if you're on Chrome.  Better performance and lower memory footprint. HAHA. Not really. You know how many "impressions" are floating out there? Both viewable and non-viewable? The AdBlock is probably a small chunk out of the general web population. Who is this AdBlock It's not the advertisers that hate it, it's the content-creators (e.g. everyone with YouTube content) that hate it. AdBlock is crap these days, so many fucking adds get through. And when you try and set up a block for tha specific ad, it just comes back the next time you open the window. I still use it, but it's not like it used to be. That's what they get for assaulting us with ads. I would accept one ad a day. Anything more than that, and they can go fuck themselves. Seven day house builds on TV. And three day room renovations.

Architects hate it.

They never show the weeks or months of design and approvals done before filming. Also, they only build enough of the house to show it for the TV show then spend a few weeks to months afterwards finishing everything.

Source: My uncle built a house for Extreme Makeover Home Edition. The same is true for tattoo shows. Those tattoos take ages to do and usually get done over multiple sessions, with time to heal in between outlines and coloring. You should never get a sleeve in one session. That's a lot of work you don't want rushed. That's way too long for the average client to sit, too. They're in pain. Then there is the healing... That's a lot of surface area to heal at once. Those shows are very misleading. I've had relatively modest tattoos (think about a handspan and a half in size) take two sessions so the artist wouldn't have to marathon it. Those shows that do large detailed pieces in a single session always make me wonder if they didn't ask the customer to come back in two weeks' time wearing the same clothes, for continuity. Yeah, one of my friends looked into getting onto one of those shows, as the "canvas." According to him, those peices get touched up again at least after the camera stops rolling and they've had time to heal. 

The shop I'm learning in was invited onto one of those shows and our oldest artist intercepted the email and shot the show down in a very rude letter back. One of our artists was annoyed, because he could've gotten some more publicity that way, but everyone else agreed that a show would be a terrible idea. You lose respectability as an artist, that way. The shows create drama for the screen but then that drama is part of your reputation forever.

Also, we've had camera men from that LA Ink show come in to get tattoos from us, because they had issues with the main artist in that shop. The chick with the stars on her face? Apparently she's Satan off camera. I don't really know how she is on camera...

Oh, TV. Inspectors, variances, hearings... Paperwork, smmiting plans, plans overview, dining with clients, more paperwork to fill, ciity hall half day, full day after that, more client meeting, changing minds, changing building details, new permits, new subcontractor, contractor, contractor not showing up, new contractor, equipments ordering, materials ordering. Plans approved, plan revise, plan copied so i can shove archtect plan up architecture ass! Architectural drawings aren't Ikea instructions.
They're documents which describe the general form and extent of the work.
Our industry has simultaneously abandoned the idea that the Architect needs to be a master builder, and that builders should bear any responsibility for the final built result.

The whole shop drawing process is performed poorly by general contractors these days.  This process is supposed to be a rebuttal communication saying, "this is how we have interpreted the drawings and decided that it needs to be built".  These days, this phase is just "here, look, I sourced the product you said to.  I'll figure out how it works when it gets to the site".

Builders are no longer responsible for what they do.  To me it's a problem.  I've met exactly three contractors in sixteen years that I would trust to build my project like they were building their own home; including one who I don't trust, and was ACTUALLY building a home for his own mother.

The industry is horribly broken, and the fact that shows like Mike Holmes exist points to the problem.  His view may be extreme, but contractors should look at their industry and realize that there is enough of an audience that feels this way that networks are investing multiple-millions of dollars creating shows which cater to that audience.  As a thought experiment, ask yourself, "what if the construction industry had a reputation for being beyond reproach?  Would there be a market for those shows?" Or fighting with the city to get an inspector out there in a timely fashion. Yelling "Am I being detained!?" repeatedly to a police officer will get you off any crime. One time I kept asking "am I under arrest?" Expecting eventually I could drive off. The officer eventually said "yes" and I went to jail. What a twist! Yeah, people don't seem to understand that cops have a HUGE amount of discretion in what they do.  If you're polite while simultaneously not admitting anything and cooperating, they'll usually let you go if they don't perceive you as a threat.  They don't really want to do the work that goes along with the arrest.

Note that none of the above applies if you're a minority.  Sorry. Also, they're used to the general public not knowing a lot about what is/isn't compulsory. Someone knowing that they don't have to show the police anything/consent to searches etc already steps you up the "suspicion" ladder a bit because it gives the impression that they have a reason to know that (i.e. they've searched for that information due to having something to hide). Of course, if you're an otherwise not suspicious person and do it in a friendly manner then you shouldn't reach the "critical suspiciousness" point that gets you arrested, but if you keep saying it and are rude or shifty or aggressive looking, then yeah, it probably will make things worse.

Same with using any information that might make them more lenient - it could quickly be perceived as you trying to get out of something worse. My (estranged) dad is a cop but if I'm pulled over when driving, I wouldn't say "oh my dad's a policeman, do you know him?" because while a lot of cops would just let me go then, there are a few who would see it as me trying to pull rank to some extent and probably be 10 times as harsh on me. Also my dad's a dick so I don't know how many police officers here would react favourably towards me mentioning him. I had a cop that wanted to search my car at an airport cause  i kept driving around.  For like 30 min in an out of the arriving terminal. (i knew my sister was there,  she sent me a message then her batteries died in the phone.  She apparently like to wait in the departing area, didnt tell me.  She's  dumb, and I have ADD .)

Anyway i tell the cop that he could if he wanted to, but i didnt think he would want to and open my truck to as many home upgrade (siding, windows, doors, cabnets ect) cases as my SUV could fit.  He took one look and  noped out of there.
 Shayamalan/10. Would watch "Detained" Should've tried being whiter. Tried that. Doesn't work. 

Source: am brown Story time? OP will surely be released. Yeah I think the thing that most people that actually pull these stunts forget, is that they can (I think everywhere in America) legally hold you or something like 48 hours with no charge whatsoever. You have to be a person of interest in a crime though. They can't just put some random person in jail for 48 hours because they feel like it. Well, I guess they could, but it would be illegal. Like that stops them All they'd need to do is find a crime that happened somewhere near by and say that they thought you were trying to get away from it or find a suspect from a case ages ago that looks like you or something. If you challenged it, it probably wouldn't hold but most people aren't likely to challenge anything like that. Tell the fucking story, OP! OP, plz sleaziest karma whoring user I've ever seen Redditors hate him! I can't help it... I just have to upvote. Me too! Well uh, what did you do... Ah that was a bit unclear. I was actually breaking the law at the time, but the search seemed totally illegal (no consent, searched the car anyway, found stuff). The police report included a series of bullshit 'gotcha games ' where one thing stacked on top of another (I.e. speeding, 'furtive gestures', indicative odors, etc) which all added up to probable cause and I ended up booked. 

Eventually all charges were dropped but not until after a short spell in a cell block and giving a lawyer an obscenely large quantity of money to make my problems disappear. Lawyers really are good that way.  No I don't consent to any searches. I have nothing to say. Am I being detained or am I free to go ? "Well, you don't seem drunk. But you are by far the most interesting person we've had at this checkpoint tonight. Man, I really want to search your car!" &gt; "Well, you don't seem drunk. But you are by far the most interesting person we've had at this checkpoint tonight. Man, I really want to search your car!"

Oh You! 
You flatter me...
We'll maybe just a little search 'cause it's late and I'm lonely. 
Just the tip. Okay? *tips police cap* M'criminal M'randa rights M'Naghten Rule I chortled. M'civilian I think this is the only time i've seen this kind of post not get downvoted.

well done, you magnificent bastard. "Ahh, too bad for you that I didn't consent, as there is a kiilo of cocaine in my trunk.   Lovely evening officers, I'll be on my way."   You know, if an officer said that to me, I'd let them search my car just to feel like a cool guy for once.

^^^^^^Don't ^^^^^^look ^^^^^^in ^^^^^^the ^^^^^^trunk, ^^^^^^please [deleted] Are you by chance of African descent? I believe I've heard there's somewhat of a correlation here... [deleted] Always ride with a dog in your car. The police (depending on state and local laws) can not use a drug dog on a vehicle if there is an animal in the car. Also, due to safety, they can not make you remove your pet from your vehicle. 

Source: None, just what I have heard. Don't take at 100% This sounds like an urban legend, like if you ask an undercover cop if he is a cop, he has to tell you the truth or it's entrapment. It was explained to me as such: A police dog is still a dog. They are trained to go for drugs, but will still investigate smells left from another animal, especially if said animal is another dog. The drug dog has a hard time differentiating his job from his instincts. 

In other words, Cop(dog) got distracted by a pretty girl(dog) while on duty. But these dogs are really well trained. Mythbusters did this one (tried to distract a police dog with a female dog). It did distract him, but the handler made the dog focus again relatively easy.  The dogs are really well trained to alert to "drugs" on command. They have like a 50% accuracy rate. From what I have been told, an officer is not allowed to make you remove your pet from the safety of your vehicle.

Sure, the drug dog could do a pass around the exterior of the vehicle, but who is to say it was drugs or my dog that triggered the police dog. After that, they can not have the police dog enter my vehicle while my pet is in there, as the safety of my pet is now in jeopardy. 

I have had many a dog have an accident in my car, either from getting sick or not holding their fluids (friend's pets and mine). There are many strange smells that a dog might pick up from my vehicle, even after having it cleaned. Could you get something smaller like a frog? There are bullfrogs bigger than my dog. So, maybe... STOP RESISTING! "Fine! Are you entertained?!" btw is that marijuana I smell. If they search your car, what do they do with all the crap that's in the car that they have to search under? Do they just leave it in the road? Are you liable for littering if you don't stuff it back in your car? He's going for my gun!  Stop resisting! In drivers Ed they taught us that we had to let a cop search our car. It was in the paperwork we signed to get our license. And if we said no to them searching our car, they could take our license away for I think it was a year. Is that all totally bullshit? This is a private domicile and I will not be harassed! ...bitch. Too which the officer will reply "what's that I smell?, smells like marijuana,  get out of the car and lay face down..NOW!!!" Only in something like 47 states now!  46 Oregon, Colorado, California?... Washington, Oregon, Colorado, and Alaska...  

Oregon and Alaska were just passed in the last ballots.  Washington west coast, bitches. Recreational marijuana is still illegal in California. You need a medical card, but the trick is, getting a medical card is fairly easy. It's the dispenseries that can't keep a business open, as I understand it. Pretty sure you'd still get a DUI in the other 3. If you are in the UK, don't even bother saying any of that. 
Police Officers do not need consent to search, in fact, for Stop&amp;Search, the legislation actually specifically mentions there is no such thing as a consensual search. Even if the person offers, they still need grounds as if they didn't. 
If they want to search you, you are being detained as well. You arent free to go until they are done.

Now, yelling FALSE ARREST over and over again, that is a universal get out of jail free card that should work anywhere. That's shitty.  I love [this talk](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6wXkI4t7nuc) that my friend (who is a lawyer) sent to me. Never, ever, ever talk to the police. As a non-american I would be truly terrified to ever be in court in the US for even the slightest charge. Seriously your legal system is so fucked up. Psssh only if you're poor!;) I sat down for 43 minutes and watched this whole video.
It was mind blowing!! Thanks for posting#! i see this everywhere, but does it actually work? like how does it work? "Sir, I just asked if you paying with cash or card." Because the officer will punch you in your smug face causing the case to be tossed out. Mission... Accomplished? No no, Mission Completed Oh man this makes me miss Starfox 64 "You'll never defeat androooooooooosss....." Honestly, yes; I'd much rather take a punch to the face than around 300 bucks grand total and like 9 months of court supervision. Arrested.

Crime?

Assaulting an officer's fist with your nose. I actually think there have been cases of that... [deleted] What the shit?!? [This is the one you're actually thinking of, charged with breaking an officers fist on his face](http://www.policestateusa.com/2014/robert-leone/) Yeah, there was the guy in Missouri a few years back that was charged with destruction of police property because they said he got blood on their uniforms when they were hitting him.

http://www.npr.org/2014/09/12/348010247/in-ferguson-mo-before-michael-brown-there-was-henry-davis



  That's what happens when you attack an officers fist with your face.  Well, that sort of depends on the colour of your skin.     &gt;implying being punched by an officer would cause the case to be thrown out Punched &gt; jail time  Not so smug now, am I officer? \*second punch for gloating* The system works. muarydeterminedthatwasalie.jpg Gotta love the "fuck your rights, fuck the law, the police rule you" attitude that prevails here... on Reddit of all places. I don't mind people calmly stating "this is my right, what is my situation." I hate people that shout endlessly (ie every youtuber of these situations) "AM I BEING DETAINED OR AM I FREE TO GO". Yes. Easy way out of any ticket; piss them off until they punch you.  This sort of worked for me. I walked to the gas station for some cigarettes at like 2 AM on a Friday night. Cop stopped me, talking about car break ins and what not. I told him where I was coming from, where I was going (that neighborhood, not an address), and even showed him the cigarettes and receipt. I was already annoyed at this point but was trying to be nice. He kept insisting to see my ID, so I respectfully told him I didn't have to show him my ID, I haven't done anything wrong, and unless I'm under arrest or suspected of committing a crime, he has no reason or right to detain me further. He got defensive, said "You can do that, if you want to be an asshole.", and let me be on my way. I got a DIP dismissed too when I pointed out to the judge that the officer testifying in court against me wasn't my arresting officer. Cop followed me out of the court room and said "You think you got away with something? I'll get you.". Basically a threat from a cop to a citizen, in a court house. 'Murica. Like Chris Rock said,

&gt;"If you hire Johnnie Cochran you look guilty." Yeah, but you go home. 
What, you wanna look innocent in jail? I'd rather look guilty at the mall.  The thin blue line strikes again!  DIP, I assume Drunk in Public, or Public Intoxication in many states is really a bullshit offense. Being drunk in public is not illegal. What most say is that you have to be drunk in public to such a degree that you are a danger to yourself or others. Many cities actually have some  level of quotas for arrests like that, because more fines means more money in the budget.  It can also be used as a "broken window" thing to make it look like the Police are cracking hard on anti-social  behaviour.

Oh, and of course, policing what kind of people walk around what neighbourhoods. I wasn't even drinking, I was in a car with some people stopped at a grocery store, to get beer :/. I keep a low profile, so I wasn't drinking (open containers, d.i.p, I prefer to drink in the safety of a private residence or bar) but they were drinking in the car being idiots. Concerned citizen called the cops. I'm glad I got out of that crap. The most memorable thing from that whole ordeal was how much of a justice boner the (female) cop testifying in court (who wasn't even the arresting officer) had for me. She treated me like I was some kind of king-pin who got away because I threatened the judge or some shit. It was 50/50 amusing/concerning. Concerned citizens are the fucking worst. Why don't you mind your own fucking business Susan! When someone calls about pot smoke.

Fucking.

You are just the *worst* fucking person Susan.

Edit: That reminds me, someone called on us when we were sitting on a bench in an apartment complex and my friend with the weed managed to stash the weed in his sleeve effectively. Once the cops figured out there was nothing they could charge us with they tell us we got off lucky (lucky for what? fucker) and then he sees my friends Pepsi, sniffs it, in this hyper-douche incredulous voice says "Really guys? Who spikes a pepsi?" and pours it out before they left

It was a regular pepsi. Belligerent. Yep. By that logic everyone should be arrested in Times Square on New Year's Eve. If he claims there have been car break ins that could be sufficient RAS to detain you. The fact that he let you go without getting your ID suggests he was fill of shit. The way he described it was not as if there were break-ins *that* night, but a recent string of them, if that has anything to do with it. Whether it was a recent string or a call that night, the issue at hand is whether that suspicion was real.  If there truly had been a string of break ins or a call about suspicious activity that night it gives the cop "Reasonable and Articulable Suspicion". That's legal speak for "is there enough evidence to be suspicious and can you put that into words?" With RAS a cop is legally allowed to detain you.  While detained, in fact really ever barring a few circumstances,  all you are legally compelled to do is ID yourself. 

On the flip side,  if there wasn't a string of break ins or a call and you got in some trouble with that officer, you can call into question his reason for stopping you.  If it wasn't a legal stop that can be good for you in terms of exonerating you. 

Take this with however large a grain of salt you wish.  IANAL.  Am I free to go? I don't ask that any more (not that I've had a reason to for a while). Now, if they say "no" to "am I being detained?" I tell them "okay then, thanks, I'm leaving." If they tell me to stop, then they are detaining me. 

CSB: Was walking with a group of people at around 1am to a 24 hour clay throwing event in college. Got stopped by some cops for reasons unknown. They asked for IDs, I said no while everyone else handed theirs over. I then asked if I was being detained. Cops said no. I asked if I was free to go, they also said no. Confused, I said, wait, so does that mean I am being detained? "No." Oookay... Some of the people with me were like "just give them your ID, come on man." I still refused and again said "so am I being detained or am I free to go." They asked me to do a sobriety test (horizontal nystagmus uh, i'm walking, but whatever...) and said "okay, you can go." Rest of the people I was with didn't make it to the event until 30 minutes after I got there. Apparently they ended up being questioned about what they were doing, where they were from, where they lived, all kinds of other shit. Because the cops had their IDs they didn't feel comfortable asking if they could go. They told me it surprised them when I was let go and they figured it would be as quick for them. Lesson learned: be polite, but don't bend over willfully.

 So you can't be questioned unless you're being detained? Also is detained the same as arrested?  They can question you all they want, but you don't have to say anything to them. You have the right to remain silent. Remaining silent is not an admission of guilt, and can't be used as suspicion for searches/detainment/further questioning. If their questioning isn't something you consent to, that's when you ask the "am I being detained or am I free to go?" question. In order to be detained they have to have reasonable suspicion that you just committed, are committing, or are about to commit a crime. 

if they don't have reasonable articulable suspicion of a crime, then just let them know you don't consent to the encounter and would like to be on your way. 

Even if you are being detained, do not answer questions without legal counsel. Anything you say to police can and will be used against you in a court of law, but what they don't tell you is nothing you say can be used to help you in a court of law. 

Arrests happen when the police think they have enough evidence to charge you with a crime. Again, nothing you say can help you in court, only hurt. Don't talk to them until you have legal counsel. 

I can't recommend [this video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6wXkI4t7nuc) enough. IANAL and this guy explains these things perfectly. That video is very enlightening, I've seen it posted here on reddit many times. No.  You can be detained without being charged. Could you explain further? Example? Detained means they want you exactly where you are and you are not allowed to leave. If you get pulled over for speeding, while they are running your plates and writing the ticket you are being "detained" because you will be in trouble if you try and leave at that point. Even if they come back and decide to let it go because you were only doing 5 over, you still would have been in trouble leaving before then. Being detained does not have to result in criminal charges or arrest. You're *never* (with some exceptions) obliged to answer questions, and as long as you aren't being detained you can leave, so you don't have to sit around and let them ask the questions you don't have to answer. Detained is not the same as arrested, an arrest is more serious.

Edited based on replies, thanks for the info! &gt; I believe detained is the same as arrested.

That's patently false, though they're often mistaken.

To detain an individual, officers need a *reasonable, articulable suspicion* that the individual has been involved or is about to be involved in a crime. You are welcome to ask what that suspicion is but you'll likely just get "We're conducting an investigation". Courts have given a timeframe for detention, being approximately 20 minutes (if you're ever pulled over, for example, they aren't allowed to make you wait two hours until the K9 finishes his bath and trim before they bring him to sniff your car).

During a detention, the situation must be that a reasonable person would feel as though they would be allowed to leave shortly.

An arrest occurs after they have found probable cause to suspect you of criminal activity. Think of it as the next step above detention. In an arrest situation, usually they will have what they need to issue charges. Your freedom of movement is restricted quite severely at this point, and they are now free to search areas pertinent to the crime, i.e. your butt (or, more realistically, your stylish fanny pack). This is also the point where Miranda comes into play. HOWEVER, Miranda rights DO NOT need to be read to you IF THERE IS NO QUESTIONING PERTAINING TO THE INVESTIGATION AT THAT POINT. They can ask who you are without Miranda reading, but just because they haven't yet read your rights does NOT mean you can confess to a crime and get away with it because "They didn't read my rights!".

At this point, you absolutely can and by G/god(s) should exercise your rights and SHUT THE FUCK UP until you speak with an attorney. Also, always say no to a search. They're going to search your shit anyway, so say NO, shut your mouth,  and let the courts decide if it was a legal search. This is a big reason you need to always have a camera ready to operate.  Even in Stop &amp; ID states, the cops need RAS that you have or are about to commit a crime.  But lets be honest, they will skirt that and just demand your ID if they don't like the way you look.  Your best option is to make sure you have a video and/or audio log of the stop.  If they give no reason why they stopped you and DEMANDED your ID, then file a complaint and get an attorney.   Being detained means they have stopped you from leaving. For example, if you've been pulled over, you've been detained. Being detained is *not* the same as being arrested.

Being detained means that you are not allowed to leave, which includes traffic stops or a police officer stopping a person on the sidewalk when they have a reasonable suspicion. 

There's some debate as to what the exact threshold of "arrest" is, but it's somewhere beyond a traffic stop.  By the point that handcuffs go on you're probably under arrest.  If you ask "am I under arrest?" and the answer is "yes" then you are under arrest, but a police officer does not have to explicitly state that you are under arrest for you to be under arrest.  

As to when you can be asked what questions, that gets complicated.  If you are not being detained then the officer can ask you whatever you want.  When it comes to trying to throw this evidence out you are going to have to convince the judge that a reasonable person would have not felt free to leave in the circumstances.  In this case you can still refuse to answer, though, but you have to explicitly invoke your right to silence and then shut up.  If you simply do not answer the questions then your silence may be used against you.

If you *are* being detained then you get the Miranda warning (right to silence, warning that anything you say may be used against you, offer for a Lawyer to be present).  If they don't give you the Miranda warning then they can still question you and they can use any evidence that your answers lead them to, but they can't use the answers themselves as evidence against you.  However, if you testify contrary to your answers here then they can use your answers against you.

If they do properly give the Miranda warning then anything you say may be used against you.  However, at that point you may invoke your right to a lawyer and your right to remain silent (explicitly invoke your right to remain silent; don't just stop talking, as that can be used as evidence against you).  At this point once again your answers may not be directly submitted as evidence, but they can still lead the police to other evidence and may still be used to contradict your testimony in court.  

The flow chart for when police can ask what questions and what they can use your answers for may be found [here](http://lawcomic.net/guide/?p=2897).  Note that the top third of the image is dealing with pleading the fifth in other cases, while the lower portions deal with interactions with police.

A somewhat humorous description of various descriptions of "under arrest" may be found on the same site in [this](http://lawcomic.net/guide/?p=1822) panel.  The entire chapter, starting on [this](http://lawcomic.net/guide/?p=1789) page, is good reading for that matter.  Heck, I'd suggest everyone without a JD read as much of that website as possible.  It's entertaining and easy to digest and gives a good understanding of some of the basic principles of law.  &gt;  If you are not being detained then the officer can ask you whatever you want.

So does this mean they can ask but I technically don't have to answer and can just walk away?

Based on your reply and the flow chart provided is it safe to say:

Am I being detained? 



Y/N| Response
---|---
Yes| I'm invoking my Miranda rights to remain silent
No| I'm still invoking my Miranda rights to remain silent, have a good day
 Correct.  The only change I would make is

Yes:  I'm invoking my Miranda rights to remain silent *and* I request a lawyer be present for any and all questioning.

They don't have to get you a lawyer if you don't ask for one.  I feel like this response (and the one I initially stated) would make them want to arrest me more? especially since I'm a minority. Is that why people usually just "cooperate?"  This advice *won't* stop you from getting arrested.  In fact, it may very well make you more likely to be arrested since may officers will see it as evidence of guilt.  Legally they can't use it as probable cause for arrest, but it's easy enough for them to come up with something that a judge will agree was probable cause.

The advice is only about how to keep evidence out of court.  It's better advice when you have done something illegal (and more than a traffic violation) or when you think the officer suspects you of some significant crime.  I suppose it's really just a description of what rights you have that you *can* use. 

For a simple traffic stop it's reasonable to be aware of your rights but to carefully invoke them.  For example, you could *technically* invoke your rights to not show a cop your driver's license, but you're not keeping any information out of the officer's handsthey could look the information up on their ownand you're just going to piss the officer off and give him a legitimate reason to arrest you.  So in that case you comply.  If they're asking relatively unimportant questions then it's also good to go along with it, to keep the officer in a good mood (sad but true that this is a part of the legal system)where are you coming from, where are you headed?

If it's a truly incriminating question, though, you should *respectfully* assert your rights:  "Do you know how fast you were going?" "I respectfully decline to comment."  If you had answered that question then it could be used against you (not as direct evidence, but to impeach your testimony in court if you claimed a different speed) and the officer knows this.  The officer should know the rules of the game and *shouldn't* be upset if you do too, so long as you're not an ass about them.

By the time you get to actually asserting your right to a lawyer you don't really care about the officer's mood.  It wouldn't be wise to open up a traffic stop with "I decline to answer your questions and want a lawyer present," but if you're suspected of committing a crime and are being taken back to the station then you should request a lawyer at any and every opportunity when questioned and should *absolutely not* try to talk your way out of it. 

The number one *wrong* way to assert your rights is to continuously chant "Am I being detained? Am I free to go? I want a lawyer present!" while ignoring the officer.  That's just going to piss the officer off and get you arrested.  One of the most infuriating videos I've seen of officer interaction was a fool who resorted to that kind of approach, then when he was told he was free to go *he kept on pestering the officer about the constitution instead of just leaving*.  If you're going to assert your rights be smart about it.  The first step to that is knowing what you're allowed to request and what they're allowed to use against you.  &gt; The number one wrong way to assert your rights is to continuously chant "Am I being detained? Am I free to go? I want a lawyer present!" while ignoring the officer. That's just going to piss the officer off and get you arrested. One of the most infuriating videos I've seen of officer interaction was a fool who resorted to that kind of approach, then when he was told he was free to go he kept on pestering the officer about the constitution instead of just leaving. If you're going to assert your rights be smart about it. The first step to that is knowing what you're allowed to request and what they're allowed to use against you. 

I was actually going to bring this up after your first couple of paragraphs, it's like a double edge sword, I have rights but I don't want to piss off the cop that could possible make up anything  You have the right to not be questioned by/not answer questions from the police if you aren't suspected of a crime. So if you aren't being detained by the police, you're effectively saying you're not going to answer any questions.  so you did the sobriety test or didn't do it? I did it. I'd had two beers about four hours prior, and was sick of the bullshit since we were half a block away and it's not every day you get to throw clay for free. Specifically, I told the officer I don't consent to any searches, she said the test doesn't constitute a search. I said something along the lines of "whatever, let's just get this over with." 

Happy to be in WA now where there is no such thing as "drunk in public" - so they can't pull that BS. &gt; but don't bend over willfully

One of the best pieces of advice on this post. But then i miss out on being fingered for free. This is the correct way to handle it. Thank you. There is a far more civilized and calm way of getting the same point across.

I'm not defending cops actions when they over-react, but seriously people have some common sense. Don't antagonize a short tempered armed gunman who has the legal right to murder you and be treated to a paid vacation as a result.

The "Am I being detained?!" just wreaks of 4Chan surfing keyboard warrior  naive libertarian who saw too many Youtube videos trying to make a scene and trick the cop into turning violent.  I found this just pisses the officer off, and they have work arounds to keep you legally there.  What I do is start telling them words of Our Savior Jesus Christ.  For some reason, they are quick to get me to go.

Even if you are atheist, Jesus still helps you get off tickets ;) If you give him the wheel, it's about time he helps you out. When being read your Miranda Rights (US), the arresting officer must ask if the detainee understands the aforementioned rights. What's happens if the person says no? Do they have to be read repeatedly until understood? Do they have to be thoroughly explained? Criminal here. Can confirm. This always works.  Shut up shut up shut up HAH! This guy.... I like this guy. [Serious] Does yelling actually help in this case? I figured that could give them some possible cause that you are crazy or something. No way. Yelling will cause problems.

https://www.reddit.com/r/OutOfTheLoop/comments/1vz2sx/am_i_being_detained_am_i_being_detained_am_i/ That isn't probable cause. Being a dick to an officer is never a good idea. Exercising your rights can't generally be used as probable cause. Even if it *does* suggest something, courts don't like penalizing people for that. That got me detained last time i did that. Last night i had a cop search the shit out of my car while my buddy and i talked to the other cops like adults. No ticket or citation. Try being nicer, that works better.  You're an idiot. You get the wrong cops, and suddenly there's "shake" in your floormats and you're on your way to jail. NEVER consent to searches. You can be as polite as you want, but you are an idiot to consent to searches. Better to be detained and hassled than spend a few months in prison because you thought it would get you out of a traffic stop faster. Unfortunately there are some states where this doesn't work. Like in Oregon, an officer will just make up an excuse like: I smell weed, and that will give them the ability to search your car without your consent. I've seen it hold in court, and it's bullshit. Sure, but you should give yourself every protection that you legally can. I tried being nice. I handed over the small pocket knife I had clipped (externally) to my pocket as soon as they asked about drugs or weapons in the vehicle. A cop still searched the shit out of my car using the knife as probable cause (read: tossed everything around and didn't even acknowledge the huge mess they made) and threw me a ticket for carrying a concealed weapon and possession of an illegal weapon. 

I'm a gal, at the time 18, travelling alone at night after leaving work late. I specifically asked, and the salesman confirmed that the knife was legal to carry in my state. Research after the fact didn't help me determine whether or not it was actually illegal and no one at the courthouse was willing to explain it to me. They threw out jail time so I couldn't get a public defender, and I ended up paying them $500 for a criminal offense on my record right after I'd turned 18. 

Being nice doesn't work better. So you asked if you were being detained and then gave permission to search the car?  You are operating on opposite ends of the spectrum if that is what happened.  
 Not when the cops are trying to strong arm you at 2am on a Friday night after you offer to take a breathalyzer, kindly respond to all questions and follow all instructions. After 45 minutes of complying while standing in a t-shirt and 40 degree weather, fuck you, you can't search my car. Threatening me with "8 points worth of tickets when you only need 11 to lose your license," "Clearly you aren't intoxicated," and "we only need level 1 probably cause to search your vehicle, what's that unopped car charger in the plastic baggie that we can clearly see but won't let you check." With that bullshit, fuck no I'm not letting you search my car. If you were worried about anyone's safety that night, you would have arrested the 4 people walking down the middle of the highway past you as I sat on the side of the road (note, IN THE MIDDLE OF THE ROADWAY). If you were really worried, you would have gone after the car that was swerving and almost hit your car while I was standing on the side of the road. If you were really worried, you would have let me pull into the EXTREMELY well lit Fire Department with a massive parking lot just 500' feet up the road.

Sometimes, cops just want to be dicks and you need to assert the few rights that you do have. All of this netted me a ticket for failing to use a turn signal at an intersection where I went straight. I'm still waiting for court on this one.


Edit: It is a shame because in general, I have respect for police and the work they do. It sucks that a few bad eggs or green officers give a bad name to the rest. &gt; After 45 minutes of complying while standing in a t-shirt and 40 degree weather

Aren't there any regulations about it? 
 You would think so. My jacket was sitting on the passenger seat because the car was warm inside. I didn't want to ask if I could get it, I just wanted to go home.

Edit: Mind you, this was on a night where I was in to work a 4am the previous morning and had to be to work at 7am the next. So it goes like this: Thursday night at midnight go to sleep, wake up at 3am and get to work at 4am. Work till 5pm and go hang with a friend (where no drinking or partying was happening). Head home and get stopped after 1am. I was dead beat tired physically and just wanted to relax. I didn't look tired or drowsey and was completely alert. This was the first time I had been pulled over in my BRZ. My experience with officers in my Jeep are hilariously lenient. Yelling "Stop resisting, stop resisting", to a passive suspect will get them to resist even less than zero resistance. I THOUGHT THIS WAS AMERICA.  "o lookey here we got mr. Liberal lawyer over here"  but be sure to only roll the window down 1/8 of an inch. Any more and this trick is null and void. I mean, it really did work for her. And the big authority they eventually brought in did confess they couldn't legally search her car. And she got to drive off. No it won't. I saw a video recently of a man being pulled over for a traffic stop and the cop asks "Have you had anything to drink tonight?" and the guy replies "I have the right to silence" and the cop basically waives him on. Huh. No way this would work for things like speeding tickets, right? Unless you're black  As un-fond as I am of law enforcement personnel, I'd not advise yelling at them pretty much ever. Don't yell at people with guns in general really. Int the movies yes... real life? Not so much whatever happened to a simple "dont tase me bro" If there is no fringe on the flag, the judge has no power over you. *results may vary. Use caution if you contain moderate to high melatonin levels. Side effects may include bloody nose, broken ribs, collapsed trachea, ripped sphincter , and rare cases riots I am not a cop but an attorney and I can attest that people who think they know their rights (e.g. enough to use buzzwords such as "detained") but fail to understand the case law interpreting said rights, are the ones who keep people like me in business. So if you're going to shout, "am I being detained" grab yourself a fourth amendment bar supplement and at least be correct about it so you don't look like an asshole.

 Not exactly. You just come across as an asshole. If you know your rights and the law, the cop isn't going to have a problem. But the cop could just do like my dad does.

"AM I BEING DETAINED!?"

"Yes, /u/Lolzum and you will remain so for the duration of my investigation." I dont know if this is for real or will get me shot. It's all in the tone and the inflection. A calm and polite "Excuse me officer, am I being detained, or am I free to go?" will get you places that a loud, arrogant, belligerent "AM I BEING DETAINED?!" won't.  I know this is a common jab at redditors neckbeard-et, but is there any truth to this trope (on either side)? I mean, obviously you should probably just be courteous and honest because the officer usually isn't trying to be a dick. But, one could argue that there are very legitimate times when you should attempt some kind of clear civil disobedience along these lines, right? Only if you're white http://madworldnews.com/dui-checkpoint-window/

This is in Florida, not sure about other states but this seems incredible. I've noticed the best trick for not getting detained is not having unregistered weapons or narcotics in the car. Seems to work for me I have a cop friend who said that you should ask "is this consensual?" when a cop asks/tells you to do something.  If it's something you can consent to, you can feel free to keep walking.  If it's something you can't consent to (i.e. it's an "order"), you have no choice.

Can anyone confirm or deny this? How would that work? Cop here. Recently I was assisting on a traffic stop. While my partner was talking to the driver, his passenger started frantically whispered, "Quick, ask him if you're being detained!" After no response from the driver (Who was still talking to my partner), he looked at me and said with a grin, "Are we being detained?". I replied, "Yes" and his grin turned to confusion as he sat back in his seat. His get out of jail card, didn't work. The one time I might have been able to use this the officer immediately informed me that I was being detained and that I was not being arrested. I likely wouldn't have been ballsy enough to talk back anyway. Four armed police officers who have a very good reason to suspect you of armed robbery will do that to you. Stop resisting!  "Am I being detained??"  
"Yes, yes you are."  
"...am I free to go?"  

"No."   Well I'm off to rob a bank!!! That's a good one. Right along with "The undercover cop must tell you when you ask him if he's a cop". It's in the constitution, or something. Oh, I worked with this lawyer once who got stopped for jaywalking.  He got RIGHT UP in that officer's face and started asking, very aggressively, if he was being detained.  I literally cannot believe he was not tasered.  Do not let this story serve as any kind of endoresement of this behavior.  Most people would have been tased.  Get out of here you evil red duck. Or get you shot. Not sure if being sarcastic or not. That said, if you get pulled by an un-uniformed officer in a plain car, I'd be more defensive about giving my license/registration.  Listened to a cop tell a story. 


Pulled over a younger man last week, he was just slightly speeding but his car smell funny. Not like weed funny but I couldn't place it. I tried the usual work around to get into his car ( look for drugs, weapons, booze, asking him if I could ). The kid was having none of it, so I told him that if he had nothing to hide, I could pull the K-9 unit down and sniff the car. He still insisted he was not letting me search his vehicle. Spent fifteen more minutes with him (at this point I was pretty pissed) turned around and said alright I won't search your car. Before he pulled away I gave him a ticket for going three miles over the speed limit. 


Just goes to show you pissing off a cop is never good No, but if you're in possession, it can get you out of quite a few sticky situations. Not that you should get yourself in a situation where you'd have to ask such a question in the first place Yes, I beat a murder rap this time once, just by saying, "Am I being detained?"

It works.  Try it the next time the cops show up after you've been beating the wife. 