damn it! i only have a wii remote, i need to go get a nunchuck then :( Alcoholics keep liquor in strange places, whether it be to hide your drinking from others or just stockpiling in places to surprise yourself with later. 

There's nothing quite like thinking you're out of things to drink then realizing you've got a fresh bottle of vodka tucked away in the cupboard. Me too! I never buy PSN titles for this reason but just had to buy it. Typical. Should have bought Grim Fandango instead The Elder Scrolls VI: Tyrannosaur? From the article it sounds like this one will be more LEGO MCU, whereas LEGO Marvel Superheroes was basically just LEGO Marvel.  I would also love a sequel, but I'm pretty sure this will just be about the MCU.  On the bright side, we will probably get the voices of the actors at least in film audio, if not actual recorded lines. The Hobbit is better than LoTR so far. I hate the button mashing, but it has a lot more variety in the gameplay. &gt;Rushing doesn't happen because they decide to release earlier, rushing happens exactly because they have an unmovable deadline set so much in advance. Once they're close to it, if there's a problem there's no time to delay it so they're gonna start cutting corners. That's how "rushed" games happen.

Rushing happens because it's planned in there right out the gates. They've got a set amount of time, they plan things so that they can just squeeze it out in that time, taking into account crunch, unfinished game to be patched later, and such.

In short, if they got, say, 2 years, they'd plan a game that would actually take 3 years if done properly, with no rush This game looks like the DBZ game i have always wanted. All the characters are here, releasing on Steam, online, made by Dimps and every character seems to be unique and not just a carbon copy of a "fighter". I can't fucking wait Exactly. BF2 was developed with Trauma Studios - a modding team which developed the modern combat mod for BF1942. EA DICE liked it so much that they took the risk of developing an official sequel to the beloved '42 with the help of a mod team. How often do you see that?

They also took a risk with Bad Company 1. After releasing the expansion for 2142 (Northern Strike), there was a huge void and a silence about the whole series.

EA saw that the Refractor engine was seriously outdated for 2007s standard and gave DICE the greenlight to develop a next-gen engine for the new consoles. And my guess is that while they were dealing with the technical stuff, they created the Bad Company universe.

So they developed this unseen for its time, brand new, console exclusive, Battlefield title with awesome destruction and sounds.

After that the series just took hit after hit with every new game.

The F2P games weren't good. BC2 wasn't as good as BC1, even though it was released for PC as well.

A cancelled PC port of '43 to make the horrid BF3 less horrid.

BF3 was supposed to be a sequel to BF2, but instead it was just a good game, but a bad Battlefield game. 4 was what BF3 was supposed to be, but it had one of the worst launches in the gaming history.

And what are we left with? A Battlefield game that nobody asked for.

So no, EA hasn't cared for Battlefield since years. Them saying that they are taking Battlefront as seriously as Battlefield pretty much means nothing. That would explain why so many down votes. Haha I wish I could get paid for posting ahit on reddit.  Don't know shit about the first two. Yakuza 4 is supposed to be good, Thief is a piece of shit, Rogue legacy is fun but I prefer the PC version. I meant skins, in the money regard. No need to be a jerk.  There are demos on JP PSN ([PS3](https://store.sonyentertainmentnetwork.com/#!/ja-jp/%e3%82%b2%e3%83%bc%e3%83%a0/%e3%80%8e%e3%83%96%e3%83%ac%e3%82%a4%e3%83%89%e3%82%b9%e3%83%88%e3%83%bc%e3%83%a0-%e7%99%be%e5%b9%b4%e6%88%a6%e4%ba%89%ef%bc%86%e3%83%8a%e3%82%a4%e3%83%88%e3%83%a1%e3%82%a2%e3%80%8f%e4%bd%93%e9%a8%93%e7%89%88/cid=JP0106-NPJB90765_00-BLDHANGAMEJP0000), [PS4](https://store.sonyentertainmentnetwork.com/#!/ja-jp/%e3%82%b2%e3%83%bc%e3%83%a0/%e3%80%8e%e3%83%96%e3%83%ac%e3%82%a4%e3%83%89%e3%82%b9%e3%83%88%e3%83%bc%e3%83%a0-%e7%99%be%e5%b9%b4%e6%88%a6%e4%ba%89%ef%bc%86%e3%83%8a%e3%82%a4%e3%83%88%e3%83%a1%e3%82%a2%e3%80%8f%e4%bd%93%e9%a8%93%e7%89%88/cid=JP0106-CUSA01700_00-BLDHANGAMEJP0000)), for those curious. Don't worry, nunchuks are super cheap Except Thief. Terrible game. Studios under NDA already have access to this. They really don't need to understand the compiler anyway.

It's really more relevant to computer science than gaming. I love the series. The unification of mechanics and story is truly a unique thing. The story justification  of mechanics in the games was so awesome the first time you encounter it in the story. I personally think that's overly cynical, especially considering we haven't even seen any gameplay of the game yet. I think it's going to obviously feature vehicles. One of the few trailers we've seen of the game features stormtroopers on those scooters on Endor. Plus, not only would not featuring vehicles be totally against what the Battlefront franchise was about, it'll also be against what people want to see in Star Wars.

I think your view of the "casual players" is far too cynical. I think the average "casual player" that picks up Battlefront due to an interest in, say, the Star Wars universe, will want to pilot vehicles as much as the next person. Two points... they might not change your mind, but its what I can think of right now.

Firstly, you won't be able to buy ships after the game launches. That obviously won't make a difference when the game first launches, but it's not like people will be able to drop $1000 on the game 5 years from now and be better off than the person who's been playing since launch.

Secondly, having a bigger/more expensive ship won't necessarily mean that you'll win every fight. Look at games like EVE Online, where 'big' ships are routinely destroyed due to superior tactics, intel, etc. I'm not saying that having an expensive ship gives no advantage, but it's not going to be a win button.

EDIT: Also, even if you buy a huge ship, it will still be very costly to outfit it with upgrades. Those will have to be purchased and insured separately with in-game resources.  I get that.  I know that times are changing.  I have always loved Nintendo, and one of the bragging points Nintendo has always had was that they release complete games.  No add ons.  If there's content that didn't make it in, bummer.  It'll be in the next game.  You never had to go online to unlock anything.  The wii changed all of this with the wiishop.  It's sad to see Nintendo diving into DLC now.  I really loved knowing that the games I bought from nintendo would be the same complete games 20 years down the road.  Now that that is gone, I realized I loved that even more.  Just last week I was hooking up a friend's 360 at his new apartment.  We loaded up his borderlands 2 disc and it was missing all of the DLC.  He had it installed, but because he was offline it wouldn't load.   When those servers go offline, he'll never be able to play them again.  The game is incomplete, even though without the DLC it is still a complete game.  There will always be a perception that something is missing if you don't have the DLC.  

The same goes for Nintendo games.  Sure Mario Kart and Smash are totally complete games and incredible fun, but it won't be like the n64 smash.  I can't just hook it up years down the road and have the complete game accessible anymore.  Nintendo was really good at doing that and now it seems like they're not.  DLC makes games fragmented and have an unspoken expiry date on some of the content.   All I ask is that they have an option to play without perks or add ins like Garden Warfare has. I tried playing numerous God multiplayer games with RPG leveling, and I've hated everyone of them. Destiny was the worst about this for me whenever I'd play multiplayer, I swore there was an option to play without your gear being able to affect the battle too much. Every bit of that felt like a lie as I was thoroughly destroyed in every match. I know I'm not incredibly skilled in online matches, but I still felt there was a massive imbalance. I would have preferred the gamepad or pro controller, but Metroid Prime III played awesome on the Wii so I don't mind. All of your negative points just shows why it's such a shit game.

Seriously people, don't waste your time with it, even if it is free. I feel exactly the way you feel about OlliOlli, about Hotline Miami.

Also, OO2 looks *gorgeous*. It won't be patched. Nintendo doesn't operate that way and this isn't a remake, it is part of their VC emulation setup. 

Why would you skip such s great bunch of games just for such a minor thing though. Wiimotes and nunchucks are cheap. You can find offices Nintendo ones refurbished for $20.  Forget thief, it's atrocious. I like the art too, it has a really nice color palette. I like that it's stylized enough to avoid the uncanny valley, but not *so* much as in TWD games. I think TT is going for a mix of adult/kid entertainment here.  The fighting difficulty (or lack thereof) is perfect for me to be able to play it with my son, who can quickly get frustrated if a game is too hard.  But it also has the humor and fan service that keeps me interested.  So while I can see the appeal of more difficult combat, I don't think that's something that TT is really all that interested in adding. And pawns canals up the part as well! It will probably be like whit knight chronicles for quests. Which will be nice.  Video game journalism is probably one of the hardest field of journalism to compete in; the number of competitors and the limited amount of content. When I read of all these sites "downgrading," I can't help but wonder if the video game journalism industry has reach a certain peak. 

It's actually sad because game developers and publishers dictate the content, more so then the journalist themselves.  Yes, that too. It was a bitch and a half with 2 players, so much so that I always get one player to drop out for that level - something about the way the racing works means 2 players goes slower overall than one. It had Mario Kart 8, Bayonetta 2, Donkey Kong Country TF, Mario 3D World, and Monster Hunter 3U for a while now... Those are all excellent games You're right, and I never said that it was going to be one of those 'movie' games. However it's fairly clear they're using the movie release date to help create hype for the game, which ultimately locks the release date in place. This is what worries me. I doubt you understand because of this:

&gt; I also understand that he was completely full of shit whining about competiton starting closed AppStore.

Newell's problem (or fear) wasn't Microsoft deciding what goes in Windows Store and what not. The immediate threat was Steam (or any other digital distributor) not being able to sell WinRT programs (and indeed they cannot do that) and the long term threat is Microsoft transitioning even desktop programs to require their approval. This might sound ridiculous now, but the whole concept of transitioning is that it is done step by step. With Windows 8 Microsoft showed to people that they are willing to completely ignore the feedback of their own customers (see Start menu, touch centric interface, etc) if they believe that what they do will benefit them in the long term (and this is something that they have done at the past, see their abandonment of VB6 even if hundreds of thousands of developers didn't want them to do so and still insist on that almost two decades later). With Windows 10 they may have changed their stance a little (although AFAIK you are still not able to run WinRT programs outside of Windows Store as a user), but that was because of the humongous backlash about a UI feature that in the end doesn't matter to them as much as developing their Windows Store (and locking people in it with WinRT - something they already do, btw, i repeat that for the third time just to make sure it is understood that it isn't someone's fantasy but something that already happens since two years now).

Valve develops SteamOS as a "plan B" - they aren't going to abandon Windows, but at the same time they don't want to rely on Windows either. Same reason they made Steam available on OS X too (where things are actually more draconian - out of the box you cannot run a program you obtained outside the Mac App Store unless you disable this check in the settings or use a special shortcut).

Basically the whole thing was Valve trying to avoid putting all of their eggs in a single basket. Or more precisely, obtain a couple of extra baskets and move some of their eggs to them :-P. I don't even have a PS4 but it's extremely disingenuous to say "Transistor and this other game, that's your reward for paying $50-60 a year to play games online." Look at this [full list of included games](http://www.reddit.com/r/PlayStationPlus/wiki/list/fullna), that's a great value in the console space. If everything stays the same that will even be the worst year ever for PS4 games, just by the nature of it not having as much time to develop a catalog of games.  Rogue Legacy is a pretty awesome platformer that you will play for too long.  Transistor is pretty sweet, though some how made even less sense than Bastion.  Of course, I played them both on PC, and paid less for both than what a month PS+ cost... Well he, probably like I, haven't played it yet.

I am waiting for all the DLC to be released and the price to drop, then I will get it all and play all of it at once.  I was already burned by LEGO Hobbit.  I bought that and haven't been able to play it yet since they haven't released the 3rd film for it. You're determining that without seeing any actual gameplay footage of someone playing the game.

If you edited together any shooter, that's what they'd like look.   I bloody love dinosaurs and I haven't been a child in years. IIRC Captain Marvel is an unlockable character in Lego Marvel Superheroes. [The Dark Mod](http://www.thedarkmod.com) is the cure for that. This is really accurate.I had a very similar path and experience, and came to the same conclusions.  I'd take my personal analysis further, but would avoid as the author did, enraging too many people. &gt; Why's it matter? 

Because they've used the fact that it isn't pay2win as a selling point. The dev team is notorious for fuckhuge lengths of time without updates. It's only on version 3 and it's been out for almost 30 years. I loved Heavy Rain. I'm pumped for this. Seems like the story is similar to [The Butterfly Effect](http://www.imdb.com/title/tt0289879/). I would have thought motion controls would be terrible too, but they work great. For 10 bucks you might as while give three of the best games of that generation a shot I wonder how much worse would the media backlash have been if the protagonist was pale nerd living in his mom's basement... Batman is good. Keeps some comedy in it. Batman 2 does a good job of putting DC Universe together in Gotham City.

LoTR is much drier. I just wanted to get the the end of the story and then I gave up on completion. Hobbit seems to clean up much of the issues that LoTR had.

Have not played the Pirates or Movie ones yet. I still say that Lucas Arts did and outstanding job and all others have not been able to match what they were able to do. I doubt it. If you have a Wii remote and nunchuck, don't use that as your excuse to not play it. It works surprisingly well. I think most people agree that your wording made most people facepalm.

Not using a beta and expecting people to support a beta are two different things.

By all means use a beta if it works for you, but support (customer support, bug fixes, documentation, etc) of any kind is another issue.

NMM isn't snubbing windows 10 anymore then they probably don't want .net and windows things to change so often that support becomes a headache. That's what Quality Assurance is for, getting the bugs kinked out so that when windows 10 is released to the public officially, programmers can be sure that the platform won't brick things too badly and then nexus can release a binary and say "we're reasonably sure this won't crash in windows 10".

If you called bethesda customer support, they might tell you the exact same thing. They can't really reliably support skyrim on windows 10 officially because it's not out yet.
 Regardless of the controversy it appears they've actually worked hard on this game. If the trailers are representative of the final game, the aesthetics and destruction looks well done and the combat seems responsive and kinaesthetic. Please try Yakuza 4. Started with the 3rd sort of unwillingly on a friend's suggestion, and it's now a personal all time favorite series.

Continue to ignore Thief, though. So... she's a superhero. 



I really like the bits that are grounded in reality. My biggest fear is that the supernatural bits will completely derail the story. She better don't end up saving the world! The recent hacking wasn't on Sony Computer Entertainment. It was on Sony Pictures. Jurassic: Total War  Games doesn't have a lot of content...? How the hell did you even find this thread? The press is already using it in their agenda. I try to bring these things up in the Club Nintendo survey in hopes that they'll listen and add more controller support. Do you have any idea how expensive destiny and GTA v were to make? Those games were ambitious, but no where near as ambitious as star citizen.  Skyward Sword was good. I still don't see how people have so much difficult with the controls And the context in this case is that the developer didn't have millions of dollars to throw at them to avoid an AO rating.

Remember when Oblivion got an M rating because you could mod the game to use unused nipple textures?  And how the first Witcher wasn't allowed to show any boobs?

And then suddenly boobs and sex scenes became allowed, with Witcher 2 being an extreme example.

 Agree as well. The constant comparing this game to GTA is nothing but reaching for the lowest hanging fruit. The two games couldn't be further apart in terms of tone and content. It says it will be all 4 films.  It's only called Jurassic World because of the new film and you could consider that "universe" to be called Jurassic World. Don't forget that you can also add the fan made expansions [In the Wake of Gods](http://www.moddb.com/mods/h3wog) and [Horn of the Abyss](http://heroescommunity.com/viewthread.php3?TID=39830) if you want. They have tons of new content and additional options. He's just a guy with faults like anybody else, I just don't think that article holds any sort of merit.  Just to be clear: I'm pretty sure there are more distinct differences I haven't thought about. But that's just because I haven't touched Battlefront 2 for years. So if someone else could fill in the blanks, that would be nice. I get what you're saying now. PS- you're wrong about BC2 :P There is absolutely no 'DLC' for this game - only a tax on idiots.     
Turtle Rock are not splitting player bases, all clients will update to include DLC content.  You will even be able to set the DLC monsters as bots, just to see them.      
This means if you buy any DLC, you are paying real money to change a variable from zero to one.  Unavailable to available. Cannot to can select.      
That's not DLC, and has zero real world value.     
DLC is 'Undead Nightmare' or 'Blood Dragon' - content that is worth money, took time to produce, and is of real value.     
I cancelled my pre order, and changed it to Witcher 3.     
Zero DRM, and everyone gets all the content produced during post production - that's of little value - for free, instead of day 1 paid DLC.  That's worth supporting. Here's what we have so far, I believe:

https://github.com/llvm-mirror/clang/commit/dea8d33a7246fc7371b7db308fc218286dfd2675

https://github.com/llvm-mirror/clang/commit/71fa1edf92ef02370a6c68986a9c2f83d97e8bf9 I hope they won't leave out the Clone Wars. So many new Clone Wars era battles, vehicles, units and heroes to choose from since BF2 came out. I played Prime 3 and thought the controls were fine, but really after a few hours I just wanted a Gamecube controller.  The not being able to buy a ship thing is a bit disingenuous.  There will be a daily/weekly/monthly limit on buying credits with real money, but those credits, AFAIK can be used towards in game items such as ships.  It might take you a month and a shitload of money to buy an expensive ship, but it seems like it will be possible.  Worth it?  It's up to the person I guess.  I doubt it will be prevalent because it kind of takes the whole point of the game away.  Also, if you don't have a good understanding of the game and a nest egg of credits, I doubt you'll be able to support "better" ships when it comes to refueling, outfitting, maintenance, etc.  Everything else you said I would agree with. All the ships being bought are a shortcut, and they will all be available in game for everyone with in game currency. To prevent the day 1 spawn camping, I believe there's also going to be game mechanics in place to prevent the most powerful ships from entering the starter systems, but I don't have any source on that so could be totally wrong. I feel it is nothing like Diablo, but I can kind of see where you are coming from. I would liken it more to White Knight Chronicles, or Dynasty warriors Strike Force, but with going out and exploring the world as an RPG ala Skyrim rather than doing straightforward quests. 

I just feel that Diablo is so different than DD with it's gameplay, loot aspects, and universe that it can't be compared.  I would be really surprised if the space battles didn't return.  Like, *really* surprised.  Although I suppose it would be typical EA behaviour to save them for paid DLC... It would be sweet, that for bonus missions, you would play a level based on each characters' stand alone MCU movie. Fighting Lego Iron Monger, or Lego Red Skull from the movie locations would be awesome. This is a dumb article. The writer says its not a moba because you don't have a account to level up like in HotS or LoL. Not really a strong argument. Is counterstrike or quake not a FPS because you don't level up your account like in CoD or Battlefield? It is actually interesting that Valve games don't have a level up system in their games compared to other games in the same genres.  I really miss that old system. I had a ton of music on my 360 back in the day that I would listen to while playing racing games. Now I just mute the TV and play music on my sound system. I had never had any desire to purchase a Lego game until this, but I have a lot of respect for their series for being the first 'real' game my mum picked up without any outside prompt.

I don't remember which one, but it was a Batman game. She did her best to shove Robin into every harming obstacle she could. Drowned him repeatedly.

We both found this therapeutic. Why are there no early review copies? They are both very good.  I am currently playing FF12 international on PCSX2 and it looks fantastic.  It is funny because the prerendered cutscenes look like shit compared to the in game graphics at 1080 with 4xAA.   inb4 Australia ban Just read the steam reviews.

Wow. Just... wow. I'm not mad - I'm impressed.

How? How could you manage to turn a full, working, fine product - that just needed a little upscaling - and screw it up? No expansions, missing LAN, problems with multiplayer and performance issues?

The iconic Ubisoft Touch(tm). I will never understand how anyone can't. If you're older than 20 and a console gamer, you've probably been playing games at lower frame rates than 30 fps for most of your life. This is not the [eden*](http://store.steampowered.com/app/315810/) coming out on January 30 that I expected. Dude what's with all the casuals on Reddit that don't want to play as Tingle?

 I already have Deadlight, what can anyone say about the other titles? Anyone with a WiiU who hasn't played the Metroid Prime games before:

THIS IS A MUST BUY.  

Metroid Prime is one of the best video games ever made, and is worth 10 dollars on its own.  It translated the feel of Super Metroid perfectly into 3D, its atmosphere is unmatched, and the 13 year old graphics amazingly still hold up today.  The two sequels are also amazing games, though not perfect like the first one is.

I have not personally played 1 or 2 with the Wii controls before, but I thought the aiming system in Metroid Prime 3 worked great, so I assume the same is true for the first two games.  The disc version of this trilogy goes for $100 or more on eBay so this is really an amazing deal. You can buy a Wii Motion Plus + Nunchuk for $25 refurbished from Nintendo. https://store.nintendo.com/ng3/browse/productDetailColorSizePicker.jsp?productId=prod150198 I'm crossing my fingers that battlefront got first priority during bf4 development and that is why bf4 ended up a smoking wreck. 

I'm expecting it to be great but will see what it looks like a week after release.  Exactly. Does that not seem to be the case here?  Basically, DA:O was designed particularly with a keyboard in mind. DA:O and DA:I, arguably, work a lot better on a controller. As a side-effect, combat feels like it's action-oriented rather than strategy-oriented at its *base*. Make a bit more sense? Did they finish the first game yet? I feel part of that is because people are assholes online. They will pick on weaker people and complain about things when they get ganked. Ideally and I feel earlier in it's history world ppv worked well because people were so unused to playing with people they worked together more and were happier to group. Now most people just want to be alone and only group when they need to. 

TL;dr ideally world pvp is awesome, realistically people are assholes Looks like great fun, but my god does that big weapon model get annoying. It's huge and almost centered in the screen. Hopefully you can pull them back or take them away completely. But I only want to remove Destiny's music, not the gunfire etc. That is impossible as Bungie didn't see include any volume options To be fair it followed the book which includes all this wrong info. It's fiction. (There's a Dino in the second book that can camouflage like a chameleon even though chameleons doesn't even use camouflage to blend in) I had a good time, with no proof.

You had a bad time, with no proof.

And Capcom will continue to use server-exclusion and "toxic western game culture" as their excuse for not bringing the game over until people like **you** can actually prove to them otherwise and remove their excuse.

So do us all a favor and get to work. Which is not relevant, because Russia still won. i cant wait for the anouncement of the cis/republic faction DLC  Give the 2014 PC Gauntlet version a try, it has 4 player local co-op! Great if you have some 360 controllers around (or xinput for your PS3 or other generic controllers, and I think other mouse/keyboards can be used but idr) Give the 2014 PC Gauntlet version a try, it has 4 player local co-op! Great if you have some 360 controllers around (or xinput for your PS3 or other generic controllers, and I think other mouse/keyboards can be used but idr) Sorry I thought this was the actual sub for the game.  The best part of that game is that there's an achievement for re-enacting the [Menace of Magneto](https://www.youtube.com/watch?x-yt-cl=85027636&amp;feature=player_detailpage&amp;v=A_gu4pfFeLQ&amp;x-yt-ts=1422503916#t=60). Yep, unfortunately we don't know how high the monthly limit will be, so we don't know if it's feasible to buy a big ship like a cruiser with only real money. If (for instance) the monthly cap is 20k credits, but a cruiser costs 800k credits, then someone would have to be buying credits every month for almost three and a half years before they could get the cruiser.  battlefront also has rolls and shit like that and guns shoot actual projectiles that can be dodged &gt;I just fear the game will largely feel like a re-skinned Battlefield, and being from DICE, I wouldn't doubt it.

As the other reply said, the old Battlefronts were really *not that different* from Battlefield. They're both competitive multiplayer shooters with class-based teams and vehicular combat. Plus the main game mode was Conquest.

&gt;Not to mention I think any hope at ship battles like in 2 (where you could board the enemy ships and blow them up) is not happening.

Titan mode from BF2142 was basically the same general idea as Space Assault in Battlefront 2, so I could totally see that happening. speaking of Bad company 2.

Love the game and the level of destruction, but then, read somewhere that DICE devs don't understand why people love that game instead of BF 3 or BF 4. They said that the game is very imbalance and there are many groundbreakings on BF3 and 4. The way that everything is destructable makes Bad Com 2 imballance and they don't want that.

Gosh, My heart sanks after reading that sentences. The things I love so much about the BC 2 is destruction and everything can be brought to ground. I don't care about ballance, player automaticially switch side after every game.  If this match is not fair for them this time, they will gain advantage next time.

Damn, silly devs :( That final scene is one of my favourite moments in gaming. I love Yakuza 4 for that.  I didn't play it so I can't comment on how they did it in the game, but off the top of my head it seems like the Jurassic Park series would have a similar number of playable characters to the Indiana Jones series by comparing films. 

Jurassic Park had around five notably major characters per film on average, Indiana Jones was pretty close to that overall, maybe a little less. 
 I think most people are worried it just won't feel like star wars. The guns shouldn't feel like modern weapons that make a funny noise. It should feel like a *blaster*. A fighter shouldn't feel like an f-18. It should feel like an *X-Wing*. Those things are very hard to quantify but very easy to get wrong. 

For me the biggest thing is the units each faction gets. The factions should not be different in appearance only. The old games did a great job of making every team unique, from the units to the vehicles. Seems like this should be an obvious goal, but I am trying to keep myself from getting too caught up in excitement only to be let down after the past couple years with DICE. The problem with that is. Sniper Elite was free on PC a while ago and ps+ had Brothers almost a year ago No, Hammond wants them to be real, it's Dr. Wu that says it doesn't matter. The scientist says they can create whatever they want and people will see it as real but Hammond wants them to be "real" and "original" The pawn system is already more interactive than destiny!  When you need to to a fan made website (www.destinylfg.net) to find a group because the game makes it too hard otherwise, you know the interactive aspect is completely broken.  I dislike how the hair looks like, it's like they all have paper cutouts on their heads, but the overall style is really nice and I'm really looking forward to experience it. &gt; a Telltale game with some new mechanics and an original story

I'd just settle for a new engine. Well done... That makes little difference at all and if it does, explain that difference to me? The tutorial quests(create crafting table/furnace are the ones I'm talking about) aren't required for the main quest line, actually.  In the last unstable build, you didn't need to finish them at all.  They used to have older AAA titles, or some of the stand-out indie titles mixed into each bundle, now it seems it's all relatively unknown indie titles.

I'm wondering if overall industry support for jumping into Humble Bundles is waning? &gt; I believe the smallest cheapest ship is $35, but you can spend all the way up to $15,000 if you want some fancy shit. 

Holy cow, are we talking real american dollars? Serious question: who would spend that much on a game? Well, she is as ms marvel haha. Handhelds are never going to be close to consoles in power. At that point Nintendo is focusing entirely on the handheld market. Your kinda forgetting the one important factor, Gameplay.
Every Ubisoft open world game of the past few years has had the same tired mechanics. Destiny promised the world and we ended up with a fairly derivative shooter with few new ideas. 

I don't think anyone here thinks Hatred's marketing is truly admirable, and i honestly don't think any of the people who are saying positive things about it in this thread would still be saying those things if the game play didn't look failry fresh and something different to the normal "climb this tower then press E" or "shoot bigger mens to get guns maybe"
  Everyone in this thread is simplifying the game making process... &gt; HUD clutter and 3D spotting. Simplified classes, way too much customization, heavy emphasis on ranking/unlocks, and too few/no faction specific weapons.

Those sound like exactly what EA would do with an MP shooter, given their track record with the shooters they had control over the past few years (BF, MoH, PvsZ). They do have map travel in DD except it is a limited resource based thing in the beginning and in broke back isle only works in certain areas but is not as limited a resource. It makes it much more fun if you use it imo and they did a great job of implementing you being able to do it only after you have explored a lot.  Frank Gibeau has confirmed there would be a "third person component" to Battlefront.

Of course he could just mean 3rd person vehicle combat, like in Battlefield.  But I hope he also means 3rd person for shooting and jedi control. Other than Postal, there are no other top down shooters that have you specifically gunning down and murdering civilians are there? The single player is AWESOME! Extremely immersive and wonderful. Just as good if not better than coop but it is all how you like it. I love single player it is like you are surviving in this world making your own choices. The exploring is magnificent. Lots of little details here and there, and the game is very beautiful in my opinion. I like to just explore as well sometimes. Most of my hours are free roam (I am about 13.5 hours so far). I simply play coop because it adds another layer of the fun. But the single player remains awesome. They would let us turn hazards off then. I found the controls to be a little easier on PS4 but it plays well on both When i read the title i was like 'wat?'.   
But anyway it all comes down to semantics. MOBA was a name for genre of LoL. Before it, Dota was simply dota.  A Dice game has never had kill streaks. Vehicles have always played a HUGE role in in the Battlefield series tell me they dont when the opponents steal your chopper or tanks and you dont have one. You're talking negative things without doing research.  So near launch or at launch no items will be sold for real money (there maybe be a way to get them indirectly for real money, but that is still up in the air). And also, the persistent universe by nature isn't super competitive. 

For Arena Commander (the competitive part of the game) you will earn ships much like Battlefield:Hardline, aka get points and spend those points on unlocking things. These "Arena Commander ships" will be separate from the persistent universe ships.

Arena Commander will also feature some very competitive game modes, for example everyone gets the same ship and 100 points to spend on upgrading it/adding weapons, much like Insurgency. 

When these features are implemented AC will be a proper competitive game.   Of course it's a moba.

Dota 1 was the original Aeon of Strife styled fortress assault game going on two sides.

To say it's not a moba because it doesn't have f2p bullshit is like saying Dragon's Dogma is a western RPG solely because you can get in bed with Fornavle and/or his daughter. Can we stop the circlejerking? The WiiU is a console lacking many features with tons of bad policies and a shitty net code. I love Nintendo games, but they rightfully lost the console war. Also they've been incorporating paid DLC into all of their games.  Sony Pictures Entertainment is a subsidiary of Sony and manages movies. The hack was on SonyPictures.com, and affected users with accounts to that website and released information regarding future projects.

They have nothing to do with Sony Computer Entertainment, which is another subsidiary of Sony that handles video games and the PlayStation ecosystem. Every Battlefield game was made in two years or less, often alongside other projects like Mirror's Edge, MOH 2010 MP, and DLC development. For Battlefront, they actually have more time than usual seeing as BF4's DLC development was basically handed off to DICE LA last April. It should not be surprising that fans can do a better job modifying a game.

They have no deadlines, no budget, no one gets fired if things go poorly. They have infinite time and can quit if they want.
 I am so confused as to **why** are people excited about this game. Sure its a sequel to a well beloved game. But from DICE's track record the game will be a wreck on launch and will take months to fix. To expect anything more would be wishful thinking. I would also appreciate decent lore. I remember the developers grabbed random props from the movies and turned them into *anything*. What about the CSI Bomber? It is a random fighter Grievous rode for one minute in Ep. 3. That kind of things really add up to the mistakes list. Battlefield already has 1st and 3rd person vehicle combat so I think its safe to assume Battlefront will too. More likely that they'll release it later. Otherwise why wouldn't they advertise it at the same time to get a bigger splash?

I guess Mac has bigger market share, but Linux has way more enthusiasts, so this seems kind of missed opportunity. Just wait until Nintendo doesn't need to give a shit anymore because people are used to hearing 'Nintendo' and 'DLC' in the same sentence. http://www.ign.com/articles/2013/06/13/e3-2013-star-wars-battlefront-wont-be-a-battlefield-game Postal was a top down shooter? You can't say they're the same level and also admit you've never played, or even know, less than half of this month's games. http://www.ign.com/articles/2013/06/13/e3-2013-star-wars-battlefront-wont-be-a-battlefield-game great, I was going to buy transistor last month but I waited because it seemed like it could become a free + game, although i didn't expected it this soon. I hope they port it to vita...

Is thief cross buy with PS4? I don't intend to play on my PS3 if I already bough a PS4 But keep in mind that the cash---&gt;credits shop is not one of those set in stone things. CIG can change how they monetize the game after launch. I am personally advocating for a cosmetics only shop + some boosters for those who play the game for less than x hours a week.   I prefered it on PC, but you're not going to get a different experience visually. The controls are actually very similar to Diablo 3 on PC/console, if you have that experience. I preferred playing with a KB, but it's definitely doable on a controller. I get where you're coming from with technically unstable builds. Just wanted to mention, though, that the last time they did a wipe was about a year ago or so. Since then they've promised there'd be no more wipes and they've kept true to that. Sorry mobile doesn't make it very obvious? This and J Stars coming to the west is almost too surreal to believe. Hope we can get the new JoJo game as well. You're massively understating the similarities of the franchises.

They are both class-based shooters in which you capture and defend control points scattered across a map with an additional focus on vehicular combat. That is the lion's share of the gameplay in each right there.

It is true that Battlefront II took strides to distance itself from Battlefield. Heroes and the hunt modes were probably most notable (maybe Galactic Conquest, which was blandly executed, though many will still swear by it today). However, at its core, it was still to some degree Battlefield knockoff, albeit it a more colorful one. http://www.ign.com/articles/2013/06/13/e3-2013-star-wars-battlefront-wont-be-a-battlefield-game I bought it this month because it had been out so long and I got tired of waiting, God dammit I'm annoyed now.  That didn't have anything to do with it.  The science-fiction elements never came into effect until very late in any of the games.  I know a lot of people who appreciated the setting's uniqueness in that regard.   Nah, DLC will be rebel alliance vs imperial remnant.  &gt;BC2 wasn't as good as BC1

That is highly, *highly* debatable. BC1's campaign might have been better. But I've never seen anyone argue that BC2's multiplayer wasn't far superior.

And Battlefield is literally one of EA's biggest money-makers and franchises. So yes, they do "care" about it. I doubt they have the clout to do it, publishers know everyone uses steam, and frankly i doubt MS wants to pay the price to get these games on their store. They seem perfectly content with adding some features here or there, and just letting the PC gaming community do whatever. And I am 100% ok with that. The Gamepad added a lot to the price, so they couldn't compete as well as they could've if they sold the system at $199 or even $250. At $300 through the holidays, both the Xbox One and PS4 were getting pretty close when there was a good deal ongoing. Can we not have it be far cry? Fuck Ubisoft Also BFBC2 had no map DLCs that weren't free.  They even said that they would never make map pack DLCs because they fragment the playerbase. It kind of looks like she will end up trying to save her friend. They have the engine field tested by the horrendous launch of BF4. lol BF4 runs and plays amazing now so dont worry about that. all they really have to do is implement game mechanics and model everything using the brilliant engine they have. Just judging by the snippet of in engine footage they showed. Oh yeah they are doing it right.  Batteries not included. Aside from Pac-Man, I love playing every one of those new characters. It all boils down to preference, and it's literally impossible to please everyone.  "powerful" handhelds are often too expensive with a poor battery life, which is why they usually end up failing. That being said as long as its a solid handheld, it should still be worthwhile as their only system. Hopefully. I still dont fully understand why the bothered making this, the last time i played it it just felt like battlefield but in a more urban setting. Hopefully the cops and robbers aspect is something special. This thread chain has a ridiculous amount of acronyms  [I had read differently,](http://www.cnet.com/news/nintendo-revenue-tumbles-but-profit-remains/) though I don't know enough about finance to really understand how these sources do or do not conflict. &gt;Battlefield 3 and 4 launched two years apart and 4 was the disaster everyone should remember

You say that like every Battlefield game in the entire series hasn't come out two years or less after the previous entry. Two years is plenty of time if they properly manage their development of the game. It seems more like they are trying to avoid the clusterfuck of Battlefield 4. They had a constant stream of stuff to announce and then the game launched barely working. Their "levelution" nonsense fell flat (pretty sure they toned it way down for the latter DLC) and people were left with a game that wasn't significantly different than 3. Add on to that the announcement of Battlefield Hardline in the middle of people complaining about the quality of Battlefield 4 and the subsequent postponement of the game. They are being cautious with their biggest release of the year and I don't blame them given the backlash against Battlefield and publishers like Ubisoft in the last year. 

With that said, I fully expect the game to launch riddled with bugs and "fixed" in the next 6 months.  I see a lot of people saying this, and it makes me worry that they have some sort of massive disconnect with reality, it's borderline sociopathic, because it isn't even close to a fair comparison.

The "point" of GTA is not to murder civilians, though you can if you choose. The entire point of Hatred is to kill helpless civilians.

The "terrorists" you murder in other games after actively trying to kill you, while this game is being hyped on the very premise of, "You are Gun God, smite the helpless heathens." You are killing people who have no chance of killing you.

This game is not doing what gamers want, it's doing what you want, and that's either scary or shallow. I'll take Shadow of the Colossus 2 over this any day.

That being said, I don't give a shit that it got made, it shouldn't offend anyone's moral sensibilities, and it sure as fuck shouldn't be getting massive amounts of free press. I agree! Too much balance is boring; if the map is unbalanced then just have it played twice and switch the teams over. BC2 was so much better for destruction and as I remember everyone had a blast taking down buildings and entire blocks. Nothing since compares to being stuck with your squad in an attic while the rnemy blows holes in the roof and eventually collapses the building. Also, since destruction like that is fairly unique to Battlefield, why get rid of it? Yes, it was a top down/isometric shooter. Pretty much exactly the same as this game. Has Jedi/Sith been confirmed? Frankly I think thats optimistic. 

Playing as a Sith with an elaborate move set? Chewbacca? Space battles? Bots? Somehow I don't think so. The only reason they made money this quarter was because of currency changes, not because of improved sales. They are still on the road to going out of business unless they can turn things around.

They sold fewer Wii Us in Q3 2014 than Q3 2013 (only by a little but they needed to improve it for the system to survive). I loved Lego Indy 1, but 2 was a waste of time. I also really enjoyed the ones without voice acting because they were funny. It looks like both of those link to the same image. By that definition my view is the same, since if you go that broad you may as well be talking about all party based open world RPGs. If you disagree with how I stated it that's fine, but it doesn't change anything.  seems like it will happen mostly in that small town, and looks like a more personal story Once again, the irony in your attitude is beyond laughable and does nothing but prove my point. 

Majority of comments on this thread are nothing but dissapointed reactions coming from eager fans with fairly positive vibes. Yet you chose to look at the couple ones that seemed critical (and raising valid points), nitpicked the one that used a swear word, and decided to call out the whole gaming culture on behaving the same way. Quite the sharp move considering the comment is surrounded by people saying DD is their favourite game and they really want to enjoy the next instalment. What else do you want them to do, learn japanese and send hand written letters to the CEOs? Cut the bullshit and get off the high horse man. You are by far the most hostile person on this thread by far. One has to wonder if the excuse being made was produced by someone with the same ideas. 

I've already played in japanese servers. I've already done my "being a pleasant gaijin"  time, and I wasn't the only one. And the hostility (which you have very neatly conveyed in your posts) is still there. If what's gonna take for their xenophobic and ignorant decision is for 100% of the internet spontaneously deciding to act like they just broke an expensive vase and collectively begging and pleading until they can't take the fan mail anymore, well, I guess it's never happening. The support is already there, and so is the criticism. Just like in their local market. Ask yourself honestly why they are still using that excuse, and then ask yourself if whatever answer you came up with makes any bit of reasonable sense if the only thing holding it together is "someone on the western internet was kind of a dick about it".

By the way, I'm not saying I had an overall bad time while playing with japanese people. More often than not it was quite nice. But there were also a fairly large percentage of players that were very openly hostile to me. I don't really blame it on their culture as that kind of thing is gonna happen everywhere you go. And "everywhere" includes the western world, obviously.  Was that John DiMaggio? The limited excitement around it reminds me of The Division with You Be Soft. A company with horrible track record and a game we know even less about.

I guess those who are excited for Battlefront are because they will be able to shoot each other in an environment with nice graphics around a time when a brand new SW movie trilogy starts.

I can get behind that (not that I'm fan of SW), but let's not ignore the track record of DICE and the many projects they are busy with which might interfere with the development of Battlefront. This is probably the first game I've ever seen that has embraced the AO rating so much, compared to how its status as the scarlet letter of game ratings.

My popcorn is ready. and the Vietnam DLC is awesome. Nothing like the current map pack we have now :( As much as I am thrilled to see fellow frenchmen get some hype, this trailer gives me a very strong "cheesy-teenge-movie" vibe. It came in Might and Magic 6 (earliest MM I played~ 85% way of the game in), that was released in 1998. 

In Heroes of Might and Magic III, the original Conflux town was suppose to be a techno-engineering town, with Zombies with Chainsaws, Nagas with Missile launchers, and IIRC, a unit with laser cannon (Goblins?). 

I saw an interview NWN devs were getting death threats if that town was released, so they had to back up and create the "Elemental" town. 

 And the big problem is people waiting for Zelda are probably people who already own the system. Mario Kart and Smash Bros were supposed to be the cross appeal games that drew in families and casual market. What he's asking is curation and Valve has made it extremely clear that they haven't the manpower or inclination to do it, thus the reason they implemented user curation, so it could be done by us.

Regardless something like this already exists, although i'm not sure if it's actually a [Enhanced Steam](http://www.enhancedsteam.com/). When I list games on steam I get a overall steam review thumbs up/down, so looking at that is a fast indicator if the game is good or bad at a glance.

 The fuss is:

In GTA, you *can* kill civilians. 

In Hatred, you *must* kill civilians.

That's it. The end. It's literally the only thing they're bringing to the table: shock value + outrage. I don't even know if there was advertising. Was this like that System of A Down album that came out with no warning? Your post made little sense as a reply to my post. Here's the points I made, and the questions I asked:

1) I expressed that it is slightly disappointing that the new EDF is currently announced for only PS4 and PV.

2) I said that I miss EDF 2017, implying that I think it's a very good game.

3) I said that EDF IA sucked on Xbox 360 (the platform I played it on).

4) I said that I hope the new one (4.1) is a good game, and that it also comes out on PC in the future.

5) I asked, to people who played EDF IA on PC, if they thought the game was good or not.

Then you asked what I was talking about, as if I made multiple incorrect statements. Your post makes little sense as a reply to mine. &gt; I have not personally played 1 or 2 with the Wii controls before

They translated them great, felt fantastic. I dunno, look at that combat!

Flamethrower vs. McDonald's food tray. WHO WILL WIN? I agree that in GTA it really isn't the "point" to kill civilians and when I play I rarely do (unless they jump in front of my car like in 4). But for some reason having the point of Hatred being you are a mass murderer makes it seem less fucked up than going on a mass murder spree in GTA V, since like you said, "it isn't the point of the game." I'm fine with low poly art styles, but this is definitely not up to par from the era it's supposed to evoke, games like Quake 1 + 2 did great things with the low polygon limits they had, Strafe-while fun looking-just looks blocky for the sake of being blocky. They really need a decent modeller on their team... As far as Im aware we dont really know yet how the game is going to challenge players. For all we know the police could get progressively stronger as you cause more and more destruction until you're suddenly versing an army with tanks and shit. If they do it that way I dont see this game being all that different then a lot of other games on the market right now. If this was say, a close sourced FPS (Such as Counterstrike vs original Half Life), I would agree. But NWN released a open source map editor that pretty much capable of making campaigns on the fly. 

There used to be a community of people who made spectacular H3 maps.  That's the best excuse you can come up with? 

The fact its a different branch makes absolutely zero difference whatsoever. It still explains the kind of security standards Sony employes as a corporation. So what? Consoles can't stand up to PC but they seem to be doing okay.

My only worry about such a console is that it negates the main thing Nintendo has going for it: a focus on local multiplayer This submission has been automatically removed because it is one paragraph long or shorter. 

Your thread may need more detail or breaks our rules for being too specific (such as "which of these two games should I buy?") or too general (such as "what is the best PC game"). If your thread was asking for suggestions about what games to get, /r/gamingsuggestions, /r/ShouldIbuythisgame, or /r/askgames would be better places to ask.

If you think that your post was unjustly removed, please send us a [message](http://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2FGames)."


*[I am a bot](/r/AutoModerator/comments/q11pu/what_is_automoderator/), and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2FGames) if you have any questions or concerns.* Well for one, capturing command posts in battlefront had no effect on reinforcement count, while that is not the case in battlefield. Also capturing all command posts is a way to win in battlefront, while it only helps in battlefield. Another difference is the asymmetric factions. Battlefields factions are extremely similar, while in battlefront you have things like the droideka or the bothan spy that are really unique. You also have map specific Ai factions like Tuscan Raiders or Gammorean guards. On top of that you have map hazards in battlefront like the saarlac pit, Ewok traps, carbon freezing chamber, etc. 

Battlefield and battlefront may have the same basic gameplay mechanics, but there is so much that differentiates the two that a Star Wars themed battlefield would be a huge letdown to fans of the battlefront series I know that for more modern fighting games that make use of online play, developers are cutting down on the lengthy, flashy ultimates/specials because they really draw out the length of a match.  And although they're pretty fuckin cool (and I prefer them when I'm playing solo or w/ friends locally), I can see that if you take a fighting game seriously and play hundreds if not thousands of matches, waiting for a 30 second cutscene to end can be really tiresome if it's the 500th time you've seen it. 

The more recent Naruto games are a good example of cutting down on ultimate duration to accommodate online play To be honest, I wouldn't have liked that either. We already look bad.  Depends on what form of progression system they have, or if there are any rogue like elements IMO.  See if you can get a refund.  Can't hurt to try.   * Space battles that transition from on-foot inside a ship to space outside to infiltrating an enemy ship. Cancelled Battlefront 4 had footage of ground to air to space combat.

* Jedi/Sith characters probably come with their own set of problems but I guess it counts as more of a technical game design issue thats not totally beyond them (eg balance, move set of a fighting character in an fps)

* Big variety in "factions". Basically in the other games you could play through different battles that appeared in the films so they'd need to animate so many different sets of characters (empire, rebellion, republic, droids, etc all from different eras)

* Bots. What was the last game DICE made that had bots lol Just because EA is making it? Or have they released anything to imply that? Those things were a pretty huge part of Battlefront in the past and I don't think expecting those things is necessarily being optimistic. The only way I could see them not including those things is if they just made it a re-skinned Battlefield, but I doubt that they will shoot themselves in the foot like that given all of the expressed opinions. Because people don't like to read things they don't agree with.  Such is Reddit. :( My point is that they don't specifically care about Battlefield but rather use it as a weapon for competing with Activision. That's the whole deal these days with BF.

Hell, EA is even ready to cancel whole franchises so it doesn't compete with itself.

Rather than making Battlefield for a bit more niece audience the franchise suffers from feature creep and serious identity crisis issues. Lichdom: Battlemage is pretty sick. Even though I haven't finished, but that's more cause of my schedule. I haven't even begun to figure out the spell crafting or combos but you definitely feel like a bad ass. Give me Golden Sun characters.

Please please please.

Isaac/Felix and Jenna + another fire adept (I JUST WANT JENNA GODDAMIT) &gt; the launch lineup was lackluster for quite a while

And the Xbox One/PS4 had amazing lineups at launch? There still hasn't been a single title for either of those that has made me want to upgrade my console. From what I hear Destiny and Watchdogs were fairly big letdowns. None of the big Nintendo titles have disappointed so far. Get it in your head just in case. Massive space battles are not happening. I am afraid that half the game will be behind a pay wall. Like space battles or the republic/cis. While I get where you're coming from, I still think OP has a point. Having Pit in Brawl made me curious for Kid Icarus: Uprising, just like Roy and Marth made me interested in Fire Emblem.

If you tried Xenoblade Chronicles, I'm sure you'd get why they included Shulk. Same for Lucina and Fire Emblem: Awakening (Though Marth probably could have been retired).

As for some of the weirder inclusions, I've never played Wii Fit, but I think Trainer is hilarious. I definitely would have preferred Skull Kid or Midna as a character (not Waluigi, though -- you may be the first fan of his I've ever met) but (s)he's still an interesting niche character to play around with.

Honestly, if they included every character I wanted in, the game would be a mess. The Pokemon alone would clog the roster and make balancing the characters impossible (though I still miss Squirtle...)

The sacrifice with Smash Bros is that the game has something for EVERY Nintendo fan. At best, it introduces you to some new series you may love. At worst... You get a clone or two you don't care about. Not the end of the world.

I guess what I'm saying I'd that the bad doesn't have to blot out the good, IMHO.    
(And you should definitely try Xenoblade and/or Fire Emblem) Ha, right? We've had that for decades, we called it "survival mode" and we didn't have to burn innocent women alive to activate the first wave of enemies. I remember the frame rate dipping at more than a few points in the game.  It was probably most noticeable when there was a lot happening on-screen.  Not at all game-breaking, but definitely annoying.  The game was still a lot of fun, and like you said, really needs/deserves that HD treatment in the future. I liked how Rockstar implemented rubberbanding in GTA IV/V. If you were too slow or sometimes crashed your car during chases, the chased car would move slower, depending on your distance and velocity.

Instead of just letting the NPCs drive their car at the fastest speed they could, forcing you to fail the mission even at the slightest of mistakes, they made out this way, allowing the player to commit some errors and not be so harshly punished. http://mightandmagic.wikia.com/wiki/Forge_%28town%29

Yeah, and I agree that kinda thing has no place in the Heroes games.  It makes sense in the RPGs because there aren't just cities full of robots.  The blasters, terminator units, etc are from an ancient space traveling race that crash landed on the world, and only exist in certain areas like the wreckage or magical planes that require great effort to find. Let the hype flow through you. Embrace the hype. Become one with the hype. Metroid Prime 3 remains one of my favorite games on the Wii, but I could never find it after I had it years ago. I'll be getting this as soon as I can and washing my unclean self in a sweet sweet bath of liquid nostalgia He was a good boy. Always said "Good morning" and went to church.  The author was trying to get at was that DotA 2 is a F2P game without grind to unlock baggage that typically comes with F2P territory. Consequently, the nature of having the entire game unlocked from the get-go has gameplay implications that set it apart from other entries in the genre.

However, arguing that it shouldn't be a MOBA as a result of that characteristic is futile. Genres are supposed to be very broadly defined descriptions. Arguing a specific entry does not belong in a genre as a result of one characteristic when much of the rest of the game is in line with the other games is an incredible waste of time. 3 PS4 games to 1 xbone game?  #IDARB must be incredible.  Because from what I read the online multiplayer is restricted, which is shitty. It'd be much better with the Isolation mentality. Fewer dinosaurs, more tension. That was the formula that worked for the first film in both series. LLVM used to stand for Low Level Virtual Machine but it's not a VM so it doesn't stand for anything now. A compiler takes code and puts it into a format that LLVM can understand, then LLVM takes that and turns it into machine code that your computer can run.

MIT license is the Massachusetts Institute of Technology license. It's also known as the X11 license. Very liberal open source license that lets anyone do anything to the code for any purpose as long as they give credit.

BSD (Berkeley Software Distribution, from the University of California - Berkeley) license is very similar to the MIT license but with different wording.

JVM is the Java Virtual Machine. It runs Java code.

GPL is the (GNU) General Public License. It's a copyleft license that requires all modifications of the code to be made open source to the people who receive it. In addition to that, anybody who receives a copy of GPL'd software has the right to distribute it.

Any others?

Edit: Oh, and GNU stands for "GNU's Not Unix" (recursive acronyms are popular among programmers, especially in the FOSS, Free and Open Source Software, movement). The GNU Project is run by the FSF (Free Software Foundation) and provides a lot of utilities and such. The most likely reason that sony would do this is because it will be much easier to maintain their fork of LLVM, if they send the patches upstream they'll be able to update their own fork or even eventually not having to have their own fork at all, which is ideal for them since they would benefit instantly from new optimizations, etc. without having to repatch their own fork.

This is a good move, there are still many companies out there that are right out allergic to open source, both sony and microsoft have recently shown that they're are slowly supporting open source projects and even open sourcing their own projects, which benefits everyone in the long run. 

A pity that many companies are still shying away from open source (I'm looking at you nVidia). cue Columbine school community mod.  &gt;.&lt; I love the low poly graphics. Not as mainstream as 2d pixel graphics, but it's definitely also valid as an aesthetic choice instead of the usual high fidelity one.

What bugs me about this is that it is based on the modern roguelite tropes, a lot more than my initial impression. Randomly / semirandomly generated levels, shops, etc. The base gameplay looks fun and there is obviously replayability as with many of these type of games, but what I am really longing for is one of those oldschool Doom/Quake types of campaign with a bunch of rudimentary but creative handcrafted levels in some coherent order and a bare minimum exposition plot. 
 That isn't a concern over balance. That's a technical concern over having too many characters on a graphically demanding stage. That's why Pit's super small stage is still available for 8 people. Also big (and little) game companies are buying time On these channels. That pretty much tells you the value provided. Man you said it so perfectly. The biggest difference for me was tl2 was less intimidating for my now wife to play, whereas d3 changed up the numbers a little too much for her. I thoroughly enjoy them both!  I think this conversation has the potential to be very interesting, but rubberbanding seems too specific to me. How about just "cheating" AI in general? yeah, this is the biggest draw imo. I'm not so much for increased difficulty, just something a little more engaging. Marvel was a good start with the combo counter.  I would argue that the Galaxy games are just as linear. They gave the illusion of a big open world because you're in space and you have planetoids separated by launchers, but the levels generally only branch out in a couple of directions, the same way 3D World's do.

I didn't play it multiplayer at all, and I thought it was a blast of a single player adventure. &gt;they would only have to disclose the source to people with access to the binaries, i.e. their officially registered developers who are all under NDA.

[Wrong, actually](https://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl-faq.html#DoesTheGPLAllowNDA).

If you receive a GPL-covered work, you can distribute it. End of story. So while Sony themselves may choose not to distribute it, any developer could and Sony wouldn't be able to do anything. LLVM is a BSD licensed replacement for the GPL'd GCC compiler project to compile code for many different CPU types, like MIPS, PPC or x86!

Need moar acronyms?  There's no difference at all. Its just a shitty excuse made up by delusional psychofans.

 Global corporations use company wide security standards, just because different branch gets hacked doesn't mean the other branches are any more secure. 

We're not talking about some low level breach that leaked the janitor's lunch plans, we're talking about high level corporate secrets being stolen from right under their noses.  That's exactly what I say to people as well. I went into Thief having not played any of the previous games, whacked all of the difficulty modifiers to Hard and had a really good time. It's not GOTY by any stretch of the imagination, but it's certainly an enjoyable game when played like that. Each Yakuza is incrementally better then the previous. I've always refered it to "that japananese GTA game where you suplex gangsters". "Open world" + rpg leveling + curbstomping yakuza, whats not to love. There's no real time driving and the maps are more intimate, but it I love how it also gives a sense of of been a tourist in japan. In fact they have lots of time. Their cash reserves are large enough that they could weather several console failures on the level of Wii U, if it came to that. No problem, the Wii U is a really solid system for PC gamers to have something for when "friends" come over, plus it now has some pretty solid titles. Find me a single game for the Xbone or PS4 that's as fun as any of the major Nintendo Wii U titles and I'll stop 'circlejerking' about the Wii U. I'm having an absolute blast playing these games, it's hilarious watching people in this sub try to tell me "Nintendo has lost." I guess I'll believe that when they shut down and stop pumping out solid games, but until then WEEEEEEEE! &gt; half the game will be behind a pay wall.

When has this ever been an issue with BF games? I've played every BF game and never felt like they were unfair with the way they have handled content. The base game always felt complete.

They released a lot of extra paid content for 3 and 4 but neither game felt bare without those expansions and the expansions added enough to be worth the price of their "premium" package. I love the attempt at a Quake throwback look and how they aim to keep you moving at all times with the projectile enemy attacks, shootable power-up crates. I'm not a fan of the enemy design. Not really, most people you shoot at are just unarmed civilians, so for the most part there's no challenge. I actually overlooked the news that Battlefront would be a 1st person shooter.

As mentioned in the other articles, I really hope they still offer 3rd person for Jedi. Its possible to do a first person Jedi, as done in the ole Dark Forces: Jedi Knight games. But as that series progressed, the jedi gameplay kind of transitioned from 1st to 3rd person. Its simply more fitting for jedi mechanics and environment awareness to be in 3rd person. Motion Controls are by no means a "minor thing". They may be popular to old ladies and 9 year old kids, but for gamers they are nothing more than a gimmick that make the game more difficult to play.

Xbox One removed the Kinect requirement, the Wii U added the pro controller and all requirements forcing to use the thing and does the PlayStation Move even still exist?

Edit: Ouch. Lots of downvotes. I'm sure they work well for Metroid Prime, I'll take your word for it. But the proof is in the pudding about how Motion Controls have been received overall. Consoles can't stand up to PC. But try intoducing a console with the same processing power as a ps2 and see how the market reacts. And I bet that at least 75% of them cannot tell the differences between GTA and Hatred. &gt; By the time the Wii U was coming out, they were seen as a family friendly console maker with a few nostalgic core titles up their sleeve.

They have had this image since 1996.  The Wii just reinforced it. Seriously fun game. I've managed to play a good few hours myself and it's basically everything a fan of OlliOlli would want to see in a sequel. Honestly, I'd much rather they allowed you to use large custom stages in 8-player battles. They give you enough space to make the stages big enough in the editor. well they say the Sundance movies were a great influence, so I can see the indie movie vibe there The persisant Universe is going to be the biggest thing for sure. Look at EVE online, 10 years on and still lots of stuff to be done to balance. Arena Commander is just a slice of the pie, a deathmatch. The PU is going to be sooo much more complex. Psychopathy and mental diseases are not afflictions solely of the poor I worked for Best Buy in 2001, during the PS2/GameCube/Xbox era. I got asked routinely for things like "Playbox", "Gamebox", "Gamestation" and what have you. They don't have any clue about any of them.

One lady asked me for "the H-Box", and upon further prodding it turned out she was trying to refer to the GameCube. So kind of a Minecraft in space with beautiful graphics and an interesting combat system. Has potential if executed properly.  I'm glad you're having fun, but it's a fact that Nintendo has lost. Nintendo Execs are not spinning in their chairs going "WEEEEE." They're biting their pencils as they report financial losses quarter after quarter TIL. Still, I wonder if it would work that way in practice since releasing the code could indirectly break other terms of the NDA about not revealing the architectural details of the system. Sony couldn't sue them for distributing it but they'd probably still lose their licence. Looks interesting. Can I just say though.. Max *Caulfield* from *Oregon* goes to *Blackwell*. 


It's almost like a Portlandia episode.  That was an awesome video. The devs were actually really funny, and I can't wait to see where this game goes. A few things though-

* though I like the low-poly look, some things seem out of place

* that gun model is huge, and looks very odd compared to everything else in the game.

Otherwise, this game looks awesome. Hope it has some multiplayer mechanics, I could see this being very fun with friends! My comprehension of this reply is FUBAR'd! It's been a while since one of the real Humble Indie Bundles (the last one, the Humble Indie Bundle 13, was back in October, and had some pretty great games). It's not really surprising that most of the weekly bundles and themed bundles are a bit more lack-luster. I think that's okay though, there's a lot of good fiction that's not grimdark or cutesy. If anything I'd say it's good to have (more) video games that could fall into the same category as teen fiction books. I am not sure if BF stands for battlefield or battlefront, but I didn't say anywhere that other BF games are like this. It was nothing the same. You can't just say the idea is the same so fuck it, they were executed very differently.  Why is this thread getting down-voted? I thought it was a good article that gives an inside look at how Grim Fandango was revived. I really was amazed that it was achieved. Nintendo is the pretty boy of Reddit gaming right now, so they'll down vote anything negative, valid or not. I'm not 100% sure on this myself, but as I understand it, the larger ships require bigger crews to manage. By putting a lot of money into the game, you're basically investing into the community and in having friends to help you run your ship and do your ops in space. Think about corporations in Eve that have massive battlecruisers. Sure they're more powerful than people's individual ships, but they serve different purposes. 

On a dogfight level, you're not paying for more firepower, you're paying for versatility. As I said, I'm not totally clear on this myself, but I'm sure there's balancing mechanics that keep people from winning by default for dropping a bunch of cash into the game. Not sure the specifics, but decent game design can overcome this problem easily. I'm not too worried.  Crazy, I have always just assumed it was an FPS just like Postal 2. Is it worth playing if I've already played through the 2nd one and liked it? There is a ton in stock at the best buy warehouse. I have no clue why best buy does not advertise this.

http://www.reddit.com/r/wiiu/comments/2qmpl0/wii_u_gamecube_adapter_available_at_bestbuy_via/ Maybe I'm just a sucker for art style, but I can't wait to play this game. Good game play would just be icing on the cake.  Plus to add to this, Star Wars Battlefront 1 had something along the lines of "inspired by the award winning battlefield series" on the back of the case. DAAAAAAMN, that's an amazing deal. MP1 and 2 with the Wii controls are both amazing, and even 3 is pretty damned good. Even without the 50% off sale it'll be a damned great price. When I played Watch Dogs and eventually found the Spider Tank minigame I thought "This is easily the best part of the game, I wish they'd just made a full game out of this. Or even better stick the Spider Tank in EDF"

Holy shit they did it! Yeah the person that wrote this post made it sound way better then it was. Thanks for the reminder.

Would anyone happen to know what the download size is? Exactly. And there can be items that you can find or maybe craft that can give you a massive advantage over the one that's camping with a handgun.  One and two are even better with the wii controls. Just fantastic. They have shown in engine footage?  Speak for yourself, "gamer."  There were times were I hated motion control and times where I appreciated them. It seems like it'll be based on the Avengers 1 and Age if Ultron. Itd be cool to get MCU and comic versions of the characters A new trend, everyone wants to cash in, no matter what. AoE2 HD still lags like shit with 1000 units present in game and still has braindead pathfinding. Yeah, we're talking real money. A few people have spent that much. It's a wealthy hobbyist thing. Think about people who sink thousands of dollars into Clash of Clans, or Magic the Gathering, or other such things. If you have something in your life that gives you that satisfaction, and you can afford to do it, then more power to you. As long as it doesn't imbalance the game and make the experience suck for the rest of us, then I don't care if they charge millions for ships.   Might as well actually, for the sake of [Pascal's Wager](https://i.imgur.com/Ffy17tN.png).  Although I just went looking for space battle confirmation, and found old interviews that talked about flying from the planet surface into a space battle without loading, so now I'm more hyped than ever. They absolutely did not. I keep waiting and waiting for them to even just officially announce it. I would be SHOCKED if it was free, and i'm beginning to doubt it will even happen. What draws the line between what's too small and what isn't? That's a design question, and if answered wrong, you end up with either too few stages available or absolute chaos That's a ridiculously elitist way of looking at things.

The Metroid trilogy where the controls consist of using the remote as your cursor arguably plays a lot better than it did on Gamecube simply because it's faster and easier to point at what you want to shoot/scan over using an analogue stick.

I'm not defending Kinect or PS Move, but you should avoid using absolutes as there is always exceptions and you'll find yourself missing some great opportunities.  I need to go back and check then, I could have sworn in the book it was Hammond.  I think they just need something about as powerful as the Wii U. Ideally in a few years they can put out a handheld that powerful and still have decent battery life.  I think it works there because GTA is not a racing game, it's a game that has the occasional race in it.  They want that mission to have a cinematic action-movie feel so they write the AI accordingly.

In a dedicated racing game that would get old pretty fast.  The Need for Speed games are good examples: they're supposed to be bumper cars so of course the devs want the AI cars to be around you.  But the result is you know to save your best boost weapon for the very end of the race, because anything used earlier is just wasted. I agree. I thought Quake 2 had a good balance for enemies with hitscan/projectile weapons. Those with hitscan weapons had enough telltale signs to give you enough time to quickly find cover.  I haven't played a single LEGO game, but it didn't stop me from hearing about it ;P I assume that's a typo, but it's Battlefront 3, not 4. If I read the article correctly towards the end, it says EA is working on another Star Wars game. Does anyone know anything more about this? Damn. This stopped me from buying it. It turned a $10 game into a $45 game. =\ Except that The Dark Mod is for the original PC Thief, which isn't what's being discussed here. Even beyond that, The Dark Mod is a PC **mod**, which wouldn't help the theoretical PS3 version. As long as I amuse you and you admit that nothing can be done, nothing changes.  We just have created a platform of irony so you can get your super villain balls off.

Except for the fact that you could still theoretically undermine Capcom's poor excuses with your evidence.  You're certainly using it against me, so why not be a little more productive instead of getting off on a pointless discussion?

However, you'd rather just call them xenophobic and ignorant.  True?  Probably.  But just like the attitudes in this thread, it's not going to magically convince them to bring it over.

You ask why, and you refute why.

You don't whine, bitch, and insult the people you want to help you.

Especially when you're the one sitting here squandering so-called-good-examples on me, instead of doing everyone in here a favor and being active.  The language barrier isn't even remotely an excuse.

Or maybe you're just wasting all that brain power to creatively vent and indulge in some fetish with me.   Apotheon's artstyle looks fantastic. I must be in the minority because Rogue Legacy looks very generic bringing very little to the table that I haven't already seen.  Yup. Sounds like they just recycled voice clips from OoT/MM, though.  This submission has been automatically removed because it is one paragraph long or shorter. 

Your thread may need more detail or breaks our rules for being too specific (such as "which of these two games should I buy?") or too general (such as "what is the best PC game"). If your thread was asking for suggestions about what games to get, /r/gamingsuggestions, /r/ShouldIbuythisgame, or /r/askgames would be better places to ask.

If you think that your post was unjustly removed, please send us a [message](http://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2FGames)."


*[I am a bot](/r/AutoModerator/comments/q11pu/what_is_automoderator/), and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2FGames) if you have any questions or concerns.* https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2yKv45X_OIo I'm really sad there isn't a TMNT Lego game. Fantastic opportunity there. Lots of characters with lots of alternates, lots of locations, plenty of abilities. Then what is your reasoning for pay locking? EA has taken up a popular trend of releasing free maps with microtransactions with their non-BF multiplayer games like Dragon Age multiplayer, PvZ, and Mass Effect 3. I doubt they are going to apply that model to Battlefront but I also doubt they would do what you are suggesting.  You also can't just say "it was nothing the same" when there are obviously tons of similarities between the two series. It's really fun. It has a huge amount of content and the 4 classes add a lot of depth. 8025.9 MB &gt; It won't be patched. Nintendo doesn't operate that way and this isn't a remake, it is part of their VC emulation setup.

Would the Duck Hunt VC count as an update? It's probably pretty simple, but they must've done some work to make it compatible with the Wiimote and sensor bar that's different than standard emulation. Honest question, I have no idea what they had to do. But, I agree that any drastic changes like this one for Metroid is extremely unlikely.   I kind of can't believe you're blaming the customers for not buying it.

Nintendo may produce quality content, but a few things are still holding them way back. For one, they absolutely refuse to adjust to the time as far as online infrastructure goes. Are Wii U games even account based yet? From what I heard if you bought a downloadable game and your console dies, you're shit outta luck. In addition, they released a console that's really underpowered compared to the PS4 and Xbox One (though in all fairness, nintendo manages to extract an amazing amount of visual fidelity out of it). 

Pair those first two things with *abysmal* marketing (The Wii U as a name completely sucks, and let's not even bring UP the "New 3DS". I have no idea what they're smoking) and you have a hole that nintendo has absolutely dug themselves. Oh you've played the game and know exactly how it works? Probably Battlefield since there is currently no Battlefront 3 or 4 Hey /r/games
This is Thom from the STRAFE team. We'd be down to throw an informal AMA in this sub in the next couple of days if there's interest. I don't know how to set that up... but yeah. I'll cross that bridge if there's any interest.  Steam was defending itself from a threat? So in other words, they were trying to trump up the potential competition. Rephrasing it so it makes Gaben look better doesn't change the reality of what it was. He was spreading FUD and feeding people bullshit to promote his own OS and to try and kill Win AppStore before it has a chance to kick off. 

Win AppStore is closed system. Steam is even more a closed system. Gaben's comments didn't have anything to do with platform in and of itself being a problem. They had everything to do with the fact that messing with competition is good for Gaben. I love this game. I really do. It's the first visual novel I'd ever read, and damn it all I loved it. I do have yet to go through the Canon ending, bit it's still easily one of the best games I've ever played. The game does character development so well, making you like chracters that the devs want you to like, and hate the characters they want you to hate. It gives off an atmosphere that I haven't been able to find in another game. The whole murder mystery at sea scenario is unique and interesting. I  highly doubt it. Unless a mod says it's compatible with another it usually isn't. Doesn't hurt to try, though! Motion controls were the cancer of last generation.  I have a PC and a PS4. I mostly want it for the titles that are exclusive, plus makes for some great gaming with friends. Missing Mario a lot recently! Weird statement given that BC2 is a casual spin-off of the mainline BF series. **CONTEXT**

Given the gameplay mechanics been the same...

What if in call of duty, enemy soldiers were american and protagonist was russian.

What if pacman was depicted as a rapist and ghost were children. 

I don't know man, but I'm sure you get it.  It's got very little in common with the second one to be honest. It's not aged well, and it doesn't have the same sense of wacky, open fun that Postal 2 had. It's much darker in tone, pretty much a horror game with short flashes of incredibly dry humor. I kind of like it, purely because it has some great horror visuals and soundtrack, with a lot of that sweet early 90's pessimistic heavy metal angst.

If you're into retro games and don't mind horrible controls, it's worth it if you think you'd like the tone of the game. &gt; the company that made the game in the first place

except ubi isn't the company that made the game I bought Yakuza 4 a few weeks ago goddamnit. But it's ok, because the game is awesome. I also look forward to Thief, even though the reviews made it sound mediocre. Definitely one of the stronger PS+ months of compared to the last year. I give it less than a year before Grim Fandango winds up as a PS+ freebie Transistor's worth the money!  Woah, it's this close to release? I thought it was still deep in development and planned for late 2015 &gt; They could just hired a couple high school kids and remake the thing with a split screen running GOG's Shadow of death/AB. Throw in a few Devs for some 90's cut scenes and it is good to go.

I have no doubt that the game development process is precisely as simple as you're describing and Ubisoft's decision not to do that is explained by nothing other than sheer corporate greed. Kinda bugged me how they swapped vehicle roles around as well. The ARC-170 was a regular one seat fighter and not a three seat heavy fighter/bomber. The V-Wing was a bomber and not an interceptor, Clones were flying Eta-2/jedi interceptors.

I understand it was because they needed to fill these roles and not all of these roles were included in the films though. The CIS had no bombers until the Hyena was introduced in The Clone Wars tv show a few years after the game came out. The Republic didn't have a regular starfighter until the Z-95/V-19 were introduced in the same show. For what I have seen they haven't actually said anything apart of the teaser, right? They will probably stick to the movies since that's what the vast majority of people know. Maybe we'll see some if Disney wants to push CW  I just finished reading it the other day. The Dr criticizes Hammond because he doesn't think logically and how they could effectively be god. Hammond criticizes the Dr because he thinks more about the power he has and what would be better to look at VS what was historically correct. Hammond wanted a place that people could experience real Dino's while the scientists and InGen wanted to play God by devolping Dino's for profit. Thats because everyone knew what a ps**4** was. nobody knew what a wii U was and nintendo sure as hell wasn't making it easy to understand. Getting kind of a Gone Home style vibe between the two main characters. Any bets on a similar theme in the narratives? Oh god, fuck that one.   I was actually looking forward to a "story mode" ala doom &amp; quake. Still, this looks like a lot of fun. 

I do think $185k is going to be a hurdle... &gt; Motion Controls ... are nothing more than a gimmick that make the game more difficult to play.

I agree with this in almost all games, but the motion controls in Metroid Prime 3 were actually superb--way better than dual stick aiming in my opinion. Still not as good as mouse and keyboard, but they were really well done. I haven't played Trilogy, but I'm assuming the control scheme for MP1 and 2 is the same as MP3. Awesome line up for February. I officially cannot keep up with all these games. There a tons of games I haven't even started yet.  That's really not a fair comparison. The Xbox one and PS4 are just hitting their stride and it's been a year since release - 2014 was a good year for the Wii U but it had an extra year to get to that point. Meanwhile, games like Phantom Pain, The Order, Uncharted 4, Quantam Break, The Witness, Evolve, Arkham Knight, FFXV, Just Cause 3, Bloodborne, and many, many more will be hitting PS4 and Xbox One in 2015. You're basically saying Nintendo shouldn't add additional content to an already feature complete game because you feel additional content makes a game incomplete? Bayonetta 2 actually just came out in September in Japan and October everywhere else, but yeah all those others have been out for a bit.  Smash Bros. is what pushed me to getting one, and now that I do I'm enjoying the excellent backlog I have to go through. The animation in this game doesn't look very natural at all. Which is a shame because it seems like it has a lot going for it.  I agree, however there where a few games on the og wii that got it right. Metroid Prime 3 had great controls. 3.3GHz but can be overclocked well above that if you got lucky and got a chip capable of it. LOL. "My name is not important". Notem Portent. Solid.  The Dark Mod is a "free" "Open Source" "Standalone Game" that was once a Doom 3 mod. As long as you have a PC with a graphics chip capable of Shader Model 3.0 you can play the game (eg even integrated graphics from two years ago and midrange cards from 2009 or low-end cards from 2012...) I prefered to control it with KBM, but a gamepad also works. Just get it on your system of choice. To be fair, saying "this sucks" is pretty damn negative, considering this was included for free in a patch. I actually kind of agree. In GTA, people who do that kind of thing are going out of their way to do so, whereas in this, you're pretty much instructed to. Yeah, I would imagine it would be difficult to have 8 players staggered across the 2 tiers in that stage. Well, I've seen the only two trailers there are, and quite frankly I doubt you have played also. So right now we're on the same page. No need to be a condescending twat about it. No! It's a business! And business is evil! They should just do it all for free and pay their rent with warm fuzzy feelings! /s

Look at what Steam has done for the number of Indie games - once they can get enough exposure to actually make money. There has been an absolute explosion.

And yeah some are shit - so watch YouTube reviews, do your research, don't buy them etc.

This is awesome it gives people the choice to engage in a fair exchange for content - if you don't want to do so, then don't. But why would anyone be against the freedom to choose? Personally, I really like Duck Hunt, Little Mac, Villager, Pac-Man and the Miis. They all bring something unique to the table. And Rosalina is clearly a powerful high-tier character that's a welcome addition to the cast, and has become my new main. Mario Kart is the worst I think on Mirror/150CC - I appreciate the reasoning for it having it in, but the speed at which you can be caught is insane. I forgot about that... If only it looked anywhere close to that  I accidentally pasted the same link in both spots. It is now corrected.  Yeah I already played Gauntlet. To be honest, it was very dissapointing. Not really engaging leveling not enough skills/maps either. Plus a difficulty setting in games like this is just dumb combined with the passive leveling. You just level and the harder difficulties become easier because you just get passive abilities like more damage...so I could just play it on normal with no leveling and it would be the exact same thing.

If you like Gauntled, you will defenitly want to check out Forced. Played both local with friends and we had ALOT more fun with Forced. It has puzzle elements, so you need teamwork, fair amount of skills to choose from per character, GREAT progression system, fun challenges and more content overall than Gauntlet offered. Gauntled is just too stale after a while. Didn't even play harder difficulties with my friends because they where bored with it, with Forced I only have 2 (pretty hard) challenges left. We finished Gauntled in like 6 hours, compared to probably playing +40 hours in Forced. The amount of playtime really sums it up.. Yeah, I had that one run out of time a fraction of a second before clearing the last ring so many times. If you didn't sprint the entire way and know which corners to cut it was impossible. Yeah I agree but remember wasteland wouldn't be as popular as it is today without DayZ. One of the next features they're planning to add are barbarians, enemy NPCs which will try to invade your castle. Didn't get to play that one, how were the motion controls better than just a regular controller? I really love destructible environments in games. I spent the majority of Bad Company just running around blowing up walls and trees and then reloading to blow up more until the terrain is flat. As a matter of fact, some of the smarter ones run major multi-national companies.    Based on the earlier trailers the combat system seems to be pretty cool. But yeah, the art style is definitely what makes this stand out. March 13 if I'm not mistaken. Yeah, companies part of a conglomerate don't manage each other's networks. SCE might have been properly prepared since they've already dealt with a security leak before while SPE wasn't because they haven't. Or I might be wrong and they shared what they learned with the rest of Sony's subsidiaries. Or you might be just as wrong because neither of us can prove it, but don't use your assumptions as a second strike against SCE itself when you can't prove it. Probably a port later this year/early next year after it makes as much money as it can on PS4/V. I just can't quite come to terms with the fact that there are only 2 Donkey Kong characters, representing one of Nintendo's most beloved franchises. Give us Dixie Kong! For me it has to do with the fact that it turns a $10 steal into a $30 game. I don't have any other use for the wii mote than this game. This game looks fucking awesome, I love Telltale games and if these guys give you more choices and the opportunity to change the story even more, I think they will definitely be on to something. HYPE Ever heard of Chris Benoit? The story line is fucking horrible, but I'm actually enjoying the gameplay so far.  Maybe the PS4 version has improvements over the PS3 version? Shulk's my least favourite. Another swordsman? With a counter-move down-special? Brilliant.

And don't even get me started on that stat boost gimmick of his... &gt; Is thief cross buy with PS4?

Don't believe so. We're only getting PS3 version. No more than other VC titles I don't think, a Wiimote apes the function of an NES gamepad to play NES games and so using the light sensor to emulate the function of the lightgun doesn't seem like anymore of a substantial update I don't think. That is a weird issue but seems like the kind of thing they will probably just patch in the near future.

Also keep in mind that this is $10 so it is pretty reasonably priced as far as remasters go. &gt; Well, I've seen the only two trailers there are, and quite frankly I doubt you have played also.

only one of us is telling everyone the challenge level of the game.. Is the "" a stylisation of "STRAFER" or is the game just called "STRAFE"? They're the same size as the rest sadly :( A little more work went into porting Duck Hunt onto the Wii U, but the way the Wii eShop games work is that they boot into the Wii Menu firmware that's being emulated. Since the game didn't support gamepad support when it released, it won't have that support on the emulation.  That sounds like it would be right up my alley so I'm gonna get it. Thank you! &gt; I don't WANT to micromanage four characters. I don't like that Inquisition pauses whenever I select an AoE ability.

Just for the record, you can turn this off if that's your preferred style. ...? always bothered you?  why? I thought it was better than mouse and keyboard. Analogue strafing is superior to wasd and I could keep a consistent lock on by pointing with the wii mote rather than having to frequently re-center my mouse on the mouse pad. Cheating AI in games where stealth is supposed to be an option is the worst. In Alpha Protocol enemies would sometimes know exactly where you are because an alarm is going off, even though there's no way they could've actually known where you are. Remember that the Mass Effect 3 multiplayer came with the price of buying a new game. Also, EA is well known for releasing extra features for more money later, or with at least some barrier. And remember what they did with dungeon keeper or plants vs zombies 2, where previously free/included mechanics were now behind a micro transaction wall. Those are very worst case examples and also mobile, but I don't see why it's so hard to fathom EA doing some dickery like this with Battlefront. I mean, I don't mean to circle the EA hate, and I'll admit I am biased, but it's only because they've proven themselves untrustworthy over and over. I am not willing to give them the benefit of the doubt anymore. Dragon Age Inquisition is just one success. They are gonna need a few more over years to earn back my trust. Huh? Just make more large stages like Nintendo did and you solve that problem.  Ehh... Motion controls are a deal breaker for me. I can't stand them. Even for games that are otherwise amazing, like Mario Galaxy, I just can't bring myself to finish them because the controls hamper my enjoyment too much. Did the exact same thing.  It was ridiculous.  For a game that's supposed to be kid friendly, that one gold brick was rage inducing.   Looks great Same here! I think the art is absolutely gorgeous on this one. It earned my purchase just for that.  Given the fact they lied about "improving" Heroes III graphics by dumb down old NWN H3 graphics, I can fully accuse them of "corporate greed."

Even if they didn't want to recreate the campaign (lets assume the codes for the videos and cutscenes are lost), they still could had remade AB and SOD as skirmish maps to show "They at least tried"  Still I don't see how DayZ is inspiration for Down To One, they are nothing alike.

DTO is very Battle Royale / Wasteland like. What made ArmA and its mods more popular among *"casual gamers"* is just off topic-ish notion, imo.

Personally I have never really cared about DayZ, but I have been well aware of ArmA 2 / ArmA 3 mods before and after DayZ release. [This thread](http://www.reddit.com/r/xboxone/comments/2om91e/wheres_the_lego_hobbit_3rd_movie_dlc/cmolnrb) seems to have it as an established fact (the linked comment is a likely possibility), and ONM (former video games magazine) mentioned it a few times. Not a game. Three games. They were each $3.33 in this bundle, but now they'll come to $15 each for you. Games that originally sold for $50 - $60 each, that were among the best on the consoles on which they debuted. So that's three amazing games for a third of their actual value.

You're crazy to pass this up. What do you mean if only? We haven't seen in game footage yet and BF4 ultra on PC looks like that already.  They publish so much things they want to put into the game, that at this point I call BS on everything this game promises and will believe nothing until i really can see it with my own eyes. I will be happy if they proof me wrong but as of right now i think this game comes out 2020 or it will be the most disappointing game only made for the 1%er PCs out there. I got the Ipad app and it crashed within 5 minutes. Didn't try it again after that. Yeah. Galaxy being an illusion of a big world is a good way to put it.

As far as the multiplayer goes.. i played it with my friends, with my brothers... I didn't play much solo, and i was bored when i was. Maybe because it's levels i played a few times already, or another reason. To me the other mario games are a more fulfilling and enjoyable solo play. Those linear stages in 3d world are perfectly set up dor multiplayer and its really pretty damn fun when you're playing. Just not in single player for me personally.  It was really hard for me to get into due to a lot of the design decisions such as the colour choices but in the end the gameplay won out. It really is a great game. Yeah, but this isn't a remake like Wind Waker. It is basically a virtual console release.  I can't really wait for Mario Party!  (comes out and march) Ha, it's just called STRAFE. The  is a joke about over branding that we find funny. To me, Yakuza is what Shenmue could have been (I still have hope). 


I own Yakuza 1-4 as well as Dead Souls and love them. Really great story, fun gameplay, and lots of sidequests to take on. I'm excited for the series to get increased exposure because maybe that will encourage Sega to localize more of the series.  Lego City Undercover for the Wii U is even better. It is very similar in tone to the show Brooklyn Nine-Nine. As much as I like to hate on Star Citizen the difference between it and other AAA games is that they are an independent studio being crowd funded.

That means millions can be saved in both publishing and marketing their game as word of mouth costs nothing and there is no publisher looming over head whipping them for a release date. Uh, gamer here, and the controls in Metroid Prime 3 were my favorite in possibly any FPS. No game has ever had such a natural or intuitive control scheme to me. Motion controls may often suck, but in MP3, they were virtually perfect. &gt;However, you'd rather just call them xenophobic and ignorant. True? Probably. But just like the attitudes in this thread, it's not going to magically convince them to bring it over.

The point I'm trying to make here is that threads like this don't matter. Because the excuse is not made on hard evidence, it's made on prejudice. Well, alright, I guess some nitpicking of evidence has to have ocurred, but, once again, I'd like to reiterate the pointless nature of this discussion is as fruitless as the action of "being a nice dandy gaijin". It doesn't make a difference what me, you, or the other dude you replied to said. Because the evidence they gather is not people talking about their game on a gaming forum. It's the stereotype of western gamer and all the bad traits it carries with it (you can thank the countless publications on media sites contributing to that image. Maybe YOU should make an effort and contact them?)

&gt;You ask why, and you refute why.

I never asked why, to be honest. The answer, although conjetural and not 100% hard truth, is quite apparent to me. Believe me, I REALLY HOPE I'M WRONG, but everything seems to point out to a different reality.

&gt;You don't whine, bitch, and insult the people you want to help you.

That's what I'm trying to say mate, they DON'T want to help me. They don't want me anywhere near their servers. Excuse me if I feel insulted by this and voice a mild amount of discomfort towards such non-provoked hostility on a forum they are never going to read. 

By the way, these posts were not meant to be an insult towards them. As I said, they have every right to manage their company as they damn please, and I respect that. It's more of a call out on common sense towards you, or anyone that shares the same mentality. I am very doubtful these words are getting anywhere near a Capcom employee, I'm not writing this for them, I'm writing it for you and your poor attitude. If they do, by some work of magic, manage to reach the ears of a Capcom representative, then I'm willing to answer for every single one of them. As much as I've expressed my dissapointment in their politics, I have too expressed my eagerness to interact with the japanese community and my excitement for their products. I have nothing to be ashamed of here and I really doubt I'm really contributing to any kind of "toxic gamer" vibe when, once again, the only one being openly hostile about the whole thing is you, and I've already made several positive comments on this very comment section. 

In any case, I do agree that this conversation is nothing but pointless as you are as stubborn as the horse you are riding in, so I'm just gonna step off the discussion and, following your advice, stop further "evidence" from happening. Good luck with that whole thing of yours, hope you are successful in your quest of bringing capcom to the west. If you ever manage it remind me to invite you to a pint or something. 


 I have spent about 10 hours in it so far and I definitely agree, very bland. I think to hide the fact that its a little on the boring visuals side they threw in the most obnoxious sun glare I have ever seen, JJ Abrams would be well pleased. There's no time travel in Gone Home! Well, other than metaphorical emotion time travel maybe.. Just dive into the content they are putting out there and you would know otherwise.  I don't assume the game is going to be bad though.  
Once it's out you can judge how good it is and how much of the attention it got it actually deserves.  
At this point you can assume either way based on your preferences and tastes, but don't state it as fact, that's dishonest.  UE4 baby. Let's be real, if you've been a member longer than half a year you aren't going to cancel anymore. I've been member since a few months after the program started and if I quit 90% of my library would be locked to me. Ive installed now hard drives to keep everything installed on my systems and bought a 32gb memory card on vita. I frequently boot up previous ps+ titles and it's a great to have such a huge backlog. I don't think I can ever cancel at this point. I'm trapped.  This submission has been automatically removed because it is one paragraph long or shorter. 

Your thread may need more detail or breaks our rules for being too specific (such as "which of these two games should I buy?") or too general (such as "what is the best PC game"). If your thread was asking for suggestions about what games to get, /r/gamingsuggestions, /r/ShouldIbuythisgame, or /r/askgames would be better places to ask.

If you think that your post was unjustly removed, please send us a [message](http://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2FGames)."


*[I am a bot](/r/AutoModerator/comments/q11pu/what_is_automoderator/), and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2FGames) if you have any questions or concerns.* What is ALL of this. Reminds me of Brainbread Oh I know. I have mine running at 4.5 on air right now. I was actually asking if he had the 2500k running at stock speeds or if he had it overclocked. I really liked UnEpic. It is a simplistic RPG / action / platformer with a pleasant gameplay (on controller or KB/M).

I really liked the omnipresent sense of humor full of references of other games, however it can be a bit silly at times and you have to expect it or you will feel that the game is pushing jokes down your throat constantly. 

It has some hard moments and often needs you to think outside of the box during bosses encounters.

To me it isn't a GREAT game, but it is a solid one and a truely enjoyable one if you like the humor. If Nintendo ends following the bad trend others have set with DLC, I'll simply not buy it.  

DLC isn't an inherently dirty term, the problem is when developers do things like purposefully gate already completed parts of the game for DLC, add micro transaction economies in full-price games, or otherwise hold back features behind a paywall.

That said, it's on everyone here to be an informed buyer, and be aware of what you're spending money on.   Explain the 3DS then? They predict 9million sold this year, 59 million after 4 years is there worst performing handheld in since gameboy pocket. &gt; Every service goes down on occasion. 

Ehhh, free services like Steam, Nintendo, Origin and Uplay have gone down less. More importantly, both Microsoft and Sony services are not decidedly better than free online services, so they're *clearly* not worth it. Things like gwg, igc are shallow attempts to rationalise the baseless monetisation at best (excluding PS3/V, of course). Yeah and when CPU's catch up and then hit you with a bajillion items and you drop from 1st to 6th because they're all in a pack... seriously pisses me off This is so frustrating and makes it almost impossible to do some of the maps for me. It's awful to have used 10 minutes, have cleared the entire map and just not be able to finish the 1200 kills. I stand corrected then, guess I just assumed it was Hammond due to his being so much more corrupt in the book. Been a while since I read it.  The pointer controls are more accurate than using the right analog stick to aim. It is almost on par with mouse in terms of accuracy, in my opinion. It feels great. I love Prime Trilogy's controls. GameCube 2.0. The console that's largely ignored by most but has a small, passionate fanbase singing it's praises. I expect we'll see plenty of memes in 10 years time about how the Wii U was the **best console ever!** The thing is though - although I enjoy the game barreling through those adventure maps for such rubbish rewards just isn't enough to get me going. Yeah, it's totally possible that it's just my familiarity with M+KB that's biasing me (thousands of hours in Quake/UT/TF2 vs maybe 30 with Wiimote aiming in MP3). I haven't played MP3 for many years, but the one thing I remember being annoyed by was the imprecision in turning. It's not important in a game like MP3, but it was still a minor annoyance for somebody who's so used to the precision of M+KB. How is something easier to shoot at than just moving a joystick one way or the other? I see the purpose in scanning, fine, but shooting?The first 2 games were originally created using a standard controller, so by releasing the trilogy with the motion controls, it only proved that Nintendo was bent on forcing it to work, rather than the other way around. It's not Time Crysis 3 at an arcade, it's a console on a tv played while laying on a couch.

Oh and based upon early Wii U sales because of Wii fatigue, I'm pretty sure that strategy of shoving a gimmick down people's throats didn't work. If you want to complete GTA you must kill civilians as well. If the "leading into battle" thing is your chief concern, then just change your party control to one of the characters until you think the player-character is in a position where you think he or she could passably lead. You're basically saying that the game's controls are immersion-breaking. Bah, there are no balancing issues in ISHTAR Online! I think the screen seems to be very busy, lots of effects going off at the same time. I'm sure you'll get used to it eventually, but just at a quick glance it's hard to focus. 

Eh, maybe it's not a big deal when you're actually playing the game though. A similar issue is present in the Steam version of Dark Souls right now. If your Steam name is longer than the in-game maximum for character names, you'll crash other player's games when they try to connect to you. Seems like it should be an easy fix, but it's still there. Hopefully Indigo Prophecy gets it sorted out faster. I assume you have played the game. Please elaborate. To be fair, it's still technically 10$ per game. 10 years down the road after I've enjoyed the additional content, and want to play the game again, but the additional content isn't on the disc/I have no internet/content servers have been shut down, then it will feel incomplete.  It's a long tail problem. Nintendo was ways the company that spoke against it in their development strategies.  Games shouldn't have an expiry date and that's what dlc gives them inadvertently.  I'm just saying I'm highly skeptical  They've already said no more characters will be added, at all, besides Mewtwo.   This fucking conversation blew my mind. Your ability to remain calm in the face of sheer madness is admirable. I have *no fucking idea* how a human being experiencing this level of cognitive dissonance can continue to exist on this planet without imploding. In GTA, you *can* "kill" pixels. 

In Hatred, you *must* "kill" pixels.

FTFY. And no, bf4 doesn't look that good  Well, that means it could also include Agents of SHIELD, so, it doesn't sound all that bad. Yeah I played both (or the first two if there were more), they had some appeal because they were wacky and amusing. This game looks to not be those things.  How many enemy variants are there?

Will there be boss fights?

How many weapons will there be?

Who made the soundtrack?

 This fucking idiot still thinks I was arguing with him. It's like he can't fucking read or some shit. I have more IQ point in my ovaries than you do in your entire body. Oh well that's a dealbreaker    /s This submission has been automatically removed because it is one paragraph long or shorter. 

Your thread may need more detail or breaks our rules for being too specific (such as "which of these two games should I buy?") or too general (such as "what is the best PC game"). If your thread was asking for suggestions about what games to get, /r/gamingsuggestions, /r/ShouldIbuythisgame, or /r/askgames would be better places to ask.

If you think that your post was unjustly removed, please send us a [message](http://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2FGames)."


*[I am a bot](/r/AutoModerator/comments/q11pu/what_is_automoderator/), and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2FGames) if you have any questions or concerns.* the developers, uh, finds a way. Most people who invest that much into SC don't do it all at once - they buy a ship or two a month out of some devotion to supporting an already over funded game. An AO rating could mean not being allowed on steam though  Content creators don't need Nintendo at all.  There are dozens of other studios that won't take a cut of your revenue if you LP their games. [His whole life his dad gave him warm, firm hugs.](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2Z6hNXsldMU) So what about Payday 2 then? That's rated mature and there are Armored Transport missions where the entire goal is to kill cops and get away with as much loot as possible. You can't complete them any other way. 

You could argue that the rest of the game can be stealthed but it's really hard without killing civilians or security guards since the game limits you with how many zip ties you can carry. 

With all the added gun DLCs, it's obviously encouraged to shoot your way through waves of cops. There are no "bad guys" to kill since you yourself are playing as the villain. 

It's silly for anyone to think Hatred in particular crosses some moral line whereas other games that are either the same, or extremely similar, get a free pass.  I thought it was really good until the fourth paragraph. The trolling becomes way more obvious from that point out. In many modern shooters you have ads, which can be clunky with motion controls in my opinion. Metroid prime is point and shoot/hip fire, similar to Halo, but with motion controls so aiming is really intuitive. The main character seems to be voiced by Travis Willingham... Does anyone else hear it or am I just terrible at distinguishing voices? Ah, thanks. I didn't know it booted into Wii mode for Wii VC games. That makes sense that they wouldn't be able to make any changes.  Not to mention Lego likes to put in background characters as playable
 No, the way it works is that Sony cannot *in any way* prevent them from distributing the code. If their NDA (or any other agreement) tried to prevent it, those sections would be null and void (or even the entire thing, if they didn't put in a section about "if one section is found invalid, the rest still applies").

There is absolutely no legal way to prevent distribution of GPL software. At all. Too Funny. It looks really nice. So nice in fact that I bought the 5 episodes. 

I like DONTNOD and their games and I dont expect this to be any different. There is the example above with Dying Light, but it's more to do with games that are based on some kind of apocalypse scenario. Another game that I loved but just hated what I was looking at was Wasteland 2, which, given the name is kind of to be expected but it was still disappointing. I was blown away by Divine Divinity: Original Sin recently as a counter example. Lego Simpsons... it's be like Hit &amp; Run O.O Well for a fast twitch game like quake the wii mote might note be so effective unless the turn speed at the outer boundaries was insanely fast. 

And while turning with the wii mote control scheme, you can over compensate the turn, then halt rotation immediately by holding Z. Even without a lock on you can quickly and easily pick off far away targets while strafing with the wii mote as long as you hold a still perspective with Z. Payday definitely doesn't take itself seriously, and you get punished for killing innocent civilians. Yes, you kill cops, but you can't claim it's as serious as Hatred is trying to be (even if they are being super serious on purpose as a joke). Plus Payday isn't very graphic, Hatred is being as brutal as possible. Givign what The Real Ghostbusters and Extreme Ghostbusters did I could see them doing more if they ever got the rights. I think Lego Batman 2 is by far the best Lego game.  It has such a good and fun story that I even think it's the best DC game.

Lego Marvel to me felt like a copy and paste of Lego Batman 2 except it was Marvel and had a kind of boring plot
 There's over 50 characters, not 40. Not even.

Remember Bioshock Infinite? It was out for like 8 months before hitting PS plus. So basically you think developers shouldn't develop DLC at all despite how feature complete a game is? 'm going to free up time Sunday to talk about STRAFE on here and pull in our lead programmer Stephen. I don't want to be rude and leave you hanging so just a heads up. 

Also if there's an official way to set up an AMA in this sub please DM the details. Thanks!  I mean, I know people want others to be mad at the violence and everything, but during the whole trailer I just couldn't stop thinking about how fucking bad that hair was. &gt;And no, the mods do not always explain themselves, anyone who's been a part of this community for three months should know that. 

If someone has a problem or a question they can always send us a mod mail or contact any of us on IRC, we'll be more than happy to help anyone out. In this case that didn't happen and it's actually not often we receive any messages about stuff like this.

We don't know about every single thing that happens in the subreddit, we actually got to go back to old threads several times a day to re-check if we didn't miss a row of low effort comments, a troll, some false/misleading information or in this case people that want to get our attention. Comments also come in faster than we can moderate, so there will of course be cases where comments slip through the cracks. 

&gt;They're also not always clear about what is and is not allowed. For example, the hundreds of comments, posts, and bans that happened for weeks before rule 17 was posted on the sidebar. 

Most of the bans back then were handled by the admins, not us. It was brigaders, doxxers and vote manipulators that broke the global rules, that's not something we have any say or control over what so ever. The users that we banned were those that continued to harass, troll or resort to personal attacks even after being given several warnings.

Comments were mostly removed because they ended up in downright fights. Users that asked 4chan (or on one of the IRC channels) to brigade and mass downvote those they disagreed with. Users were also posting personal information and so on. 

It would be nice if we could go back to topic and not derail the thread any further. With how much of a pain it sometimes is to traverse massive open worlds I actually greatly preferred the mini open worlds in Lego Batman 3. Couldn't the AI drivers have been allowed to suck a little?  Then you could make a few mistakes and still pull out a win. Even if you've played them before they're still a must buy for this price.. though it reminded me I still need to buy an external drive for my Wii-U. Same reasons why all Wii games run on 480p, since they're not HD remakes or running on the Wii U. I have the disc version of the Collection from when it first came out. Highly, highly recommend to anyone even remotely interested. Even if you have to go out and buy a Wiimote + Nunchuk. Most of it will probably be characters. I don't think we'll see any stages as DLC, unless it's a character + stage combo type of deal (Ice Climbers with two ice climber stages, for example)  The Lord of the Rings ones were strange in that they laid dialog straight from the movie onto the characters. It turned out really awkward in my opinion. The Marvel and Batman games did it right by using actual voice actors.  &gt; A new update for Super Smash Bros. for Wii U adds not one, not two, but fifteen additional 8-Player Smash stages - free of charge!

Seems pretty clear, they don't say "new" either, they say "additional". I find it hard to believe that you'll never have use for a wiimote+nunchuk for your WiiU. What if you feel like playing one of the Wii classics that require that setup in the future? Or even have friends over to play a game? It's 20-25 dollars well worth spending IMO Lego Batman 2 has the best story, but the gameplay in Lego Batman 3 is perfect.  So is anyone in this thread *not* excited to try the neo nazi teenage edge simulator? :u "I hate how people are trying to censor this game. I'll just downvote anyone who disagrees with me into being hidden, because that totally isn't censorship. I'm a colossal hypocrite." I was mostly talking about he relationship between the two main characters. They seem to have similar archetypes to the two from Gone Home. Just an observation.  Getting money for losing a round in Counterstrike. 

This wasn't always a thing in Counterstrike, you used to have to kill to get any money at all. Later you'd get money for being on the winning team, and then after that they started handing out money for losing too. 

This worked well with CS's gunplay because pretty much every gun has dead-on accuracy with the first shot, with very high damage for headshots, enabling a losing team to at least have a chance to headshot their way to victory over a team that's already accumulated a big money lead. I bet IGN would still find a way to not give that game a 10. I have pretty high hopes that there will be DLC with Splatoon and Codename: Steam characters. If any other game developer said that these were new maps, this entire sub would shit itself into a rage aneurysm.  Well that's just a given for most games nowadays. I'm surprised they didn't ban Pokemon for animal fighting. I don't understand your point. Oblivion and the Witcher 2 both have M ratings for nudity reasons. Witcher's censorship was self-inflicted--it wouldn't make sense for it to be censored in the way it was for the ESRB considering it still got an M rating and so did its uncensored EE. And that there were games with nudity and sex scenes well before the Witcher that had M ratings.

Your assertion that companies bribe the ESRB to get lower ratings is baseless. I had the misfortune of not realizing my sub was due and it ran out, couldn't play a thing til I got paid, twas lame I'm waiting until the 3DS version because the Wii U version is so hard to find. Really want to play this and Xenoblade Chronicles X Haha, yeah, I think I have a perception, that is almost certainly skewed, that older games were willing to take greater 'chances' with design decisions. It took me way too long to realize you were making a joke, rather than referring to some skill or mechanic that made mages better at getting to hard to reach places than rogues. :( heh, probably  true.  I liked the more open maps (for all but the hinterlands) more personally, but that's just my opinion on it.

That said, the wilds near the end were far more of an "ohhh pretty" momment for me.  That zone was amazing looking, too bad they didn't get more use out of it I played through this whole trilogy over the first part of last year.  The whole trilogy is absoltuley amazing.  Prime is masterful in design, 2 is super challenging and puzzle-packed, and the third is super fun.  But as a whole I feel like this trilogy is so under talked about in modern games.  The lore is amazing, stories are great, and the gameplay is so, so good, especially with motion controls.   You are right, and I was secretly waiting for someone to call me out on it honestly. And just FYI, I work in design &gt;.&gt; don't tell the programmers I tried to muscle in on their turf! Yeah. I wasn't really referring to the gameplay but more the way the online component is structured. It's not impossible to like something and stave off of it out of principle... Dat logic tho, ryte?

"Downvote things that bring nothing to the conversation, not just something you don't like."

Ooo, yeah! Kids, break them rules! You're so *edgy*! Quit your circlejerking bullshit. There's nothing inherently wrong with paid DLC. Nintendo's dlc has been extremely worth it, the Mario kart dlc doubles the number of tracks for a mere $12. That's a far cry away from the nickel and dining $5 per map crap other companies pull. And they aren't just holding back content, they actually start working in the dlc after the game has already released. Excellent demo! I'm not as versed with "insider" terms, but the way you guys explained it was entertaining and kept me interested through the end. Backed! You should reread the linked comment. It's saying the original game came out with the earlier movies(the second one?), so he suspects that the third will come out when the movie is released in theaters or dvd. So it's just speculation.

I've seen a rumor here or there otherwise in the gaming press, but nothing official from Travellers Tales.

"They even put in the last Hobbit movie as free DLC for the Lego Hobbit game."

This simply has not happened. And there is zero evidence that it will be free if it does come out one day. Meh, can't find a reason why people are flipping shit about this game, if he were some dude in the middle east killing a bunch of civilians in the name of freedom, no one would really care. Looks good but looks like it will get old very fast. 
So edgy though, so cringey haha. Im sorry but it looks like every other top down shooter 10 point capture the flag with 64 ai. oh the hours the spent on that session alone. took about 3 hours to win 4-10 Well, it's really damn hard to see your character in the back section as is.. anyone recognise the song that was in this trailer? &gt;Who's saying they will fail to convey the complexities of a relationship?

The article.  I have a feeling it's just poor communication on their part.  They make it sound like they use sex as a shortcut to real story telling, and that's what annoys many of us.  Sex isn't a bad thing, but just like everything else it can be used badly.  If the only thing conveyed is that they're fucking, that's bad story telling.  That's what the article sounds like they did.  Hopefully the article is just badly written.

In all of your examples, there was more than JUST the sex.  They expanded on them properly.  They didn't treat sex as a shortcut, but as part of a whole.  The article specifically says they're using it as a shortcut.  That's the problem for me. The issue is that by the time a lot of people really heard about the Wii U and fully understood it was a new system, the PS4 and Xbox One were stealing all the press and launching and the Wii U was still dead in the water with no support. The game can't possibly be "not good enough to own for free" bad. I refuse to believe that. I've payed $10 for some pretty shitty games and gotten my money's worth. People seem *offended* that they're being given Thief as part of their PS+ line-up. One of the developers hinted at an actual over-arching story that isn't being revealed at the moment.  I think rape is a bit of a stretch, but I don't see how nationality or anything like that matters in a shooter. In Red Orchestra 2 I can play as a Russian killing Americans. I'm sure tons of Brazillians played through the favela level in Modern Warfare 2.

Muder is murder is murder, and all the uproar this game had for a day was completely idiotic. 70 is the cheapest on amazon at the moment. for an official. the mayflash is there i guess.  There is also not much incentive to get an actual working product out the door, they already got paid... 

I'm not saying SC will be a massive failure, i'm just saying crowdfunding isn't without its drawbacks too. It's not emulated. They just down clock the hardware.  Exactly. 10 Years and they are still working at it :) I don't agree that it is a shit game. I understand that it's not perfect, but I don't only play perfect games. It may not even be 'good', but it was fun for me, and it could be fun for someone else. Okay? Then the devs will just sell it through their own website the way Notch sold Minecraft, and it'll sell just about as much as it's going to sell. it should have an option like battlefront 2 did. play as first or third person, Jedi or not Dude, the server browser was broken in 2142 at launch for over a month. We had to exchange ips on a fucking forum.

DICE has never launched a stable game. And as of late - they haven't even launched a good game. They have explained what they were going for. They did not want to add new characters that were too similar to existing characters, thus you have some seemingly weird choices. 

It's always a trade off when going for originality. Sometimes people do things that do not seem intuitive or logical for the sake of novelty.

Sometimes it results in things that are arguable in terms of being worthwhile, such as "experimental jazz", or "free jazz" which is essentially just anything that does not resemble actual music in form, rhythm or harmony.

Sometimes you end up with something amazing because of the process involved in "thinking outside the box"

PS: I am sorry if anyone is a fan of "free jazz" or the like, but I was specifically talking about music that really has no value other than novelty, some free jazz is amazing, and I am aware of this. A better example would be the John Cage piece that was just an entire song made up of a rest, as in, silence. http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/4%E2%80%B233%E2%80%B3 Going back to those after  3 does feel a little odd for a bit, I think it was the lack of strafe jump or something. Starting with them so you don't lose an ability will feel better.  Animation is expensive and a lot of work. I think it's fine. I don't know how does your argument refutes mine but i wouldn't say more money makes games better. Some devs just lack the imagination or just forgot to innovate. destiny could be made with half the resources Bungie got. With how derivative 'Hardline' is shaping up to be, I really would not hold out for anything in the way of fan service.

EA knows what sells, and that is the game they will make. With the Star Wars franchise about to take off again, you can be certain they won't be calling it Battlefront 3. It will be EA's "Star Wars:Battlefront", and there will be many more iterations afterward.

All that said, when not under immense pressure, DICE has made some fantastic games. I really hope they do the franchise justice. But I would not bet on it. Just so it's clear, I'm just explaining why someone might be pissy about the mods. I do have disagreements with some of the ways this sub is moderated but overall I think you guys do a pretty great job, and in fact I've personally had a good experience with you specifically. Spam Shulk counter in online multiplayer, win. No, they said none were planned. They never explicitly stated that they never would be planned. &gt;I see a lot of people saying this, and it makes me worry that they have some sort of massive disconnect with reality, it's borderline sociopathic...  
...This game is not doing what gamers want, it's doing what you want, and that's either scary or shallow...

And I see some people saying this as if they can't tell the difference between reality and a fantasy.  
Get the fuck out of here with this shit. So what if somebody really wants to kill some digital people? I personally don't care for it, what I want from a shooter is satisfying mechanics and a fair challenge, but if you just want to shoot some people up in a game, that's your business and it doesn't say anything about your personality or mental stability.  
So please stop implying that if somebody wants to kill people in a game, there must be something wrong with them, you've no basis to say that. You really shouldn't skip it because of that. It's one of the few places where I was glad for motion controls and pointer aiming. It's one of the outstanding examples of how the Wii could have been used but never was. It's very, very good. Wait till the next major bundle, not just a weekly one. I've played Metroid Prime 3. The motion controls work very well -- probably better than a control stick for the kind of aiming that happens in the game. Bear in mind that the trilogy was originally released on the (extremely well-selling, mind you) Wii, and used the standard controls of the console to great effect. For $10, this is one of the best deals I've ever seen. It's, like, Orange Box level, when that was revealed. I bought it for 12 dollars on the Xbox One, and my wife and I together have together put in probably 60 or 70 hours. That's like &lt; 20 cents an hour, which I consider to be a pretty good deal. So who's the moral arbitrator on how serious a game takes itself? You say that Payday 2 doesn't count cause it doesn't take itself seriously. There are many people would debate you on that, much like there are many of us who say that Hatred doesn't take itself seriously either. These are subjective opinions, not facts.  The way I see it is that the Adventure Maps are just avenues to play the game in new ways. The rewards are just a nice bonus for going the extra mile; and the missions are just playgrounds to try out characters and enjoy the game outside of story mode. Some of the missions are lots of fun and challenge the player in different ways, others are rubbish and I'll only beat them if I have to.

It depends on what you find fun in the game, really. *shrug* &gt; Well for one, capturing command posts in battlefront had no effect on reinforcement count

Yes it did.

You're spot on about the rest though. Just leave the implementation the same, but give an option in the menu to turn them all off. Boom. Kid friendly and accessible, and not annoying for adults.
 Okay, then I'll just use the end of my initial argument. Hatred depicts incredibly brutal acts of violence on innocent civilians, Payday 2 punishes you for killing civilians, and the violence is not very graphic. "Not Important"? Is that actually the characters name? Does this not look better graphically? Third person, third person, third person. Yeah I do have a Wii U. I'm not a part of the 'Nintendo does no wrong' community. Their games are good but I can only play Mario Kart and Smash so much.  I don't know why they only picked a period of 9 months for that article. That's probably where the discrepancy is.

They also did well this holiday season, probably because of Smash Bros. The question with Nintendo is whether they can sustain over the long term. I have 0 games that use it right now, and my apartment is too small to have more than one person over.

I love the MP trilogy a lot, but I just can't justify buying a controller for one game at the moment. Good to know.  I'm really looking forward to playing through them again. To be fair, the developer of The Division at least has a proven track record of putting out quality PC games. At $10 this is a steal!, if you like Metroid go get this! I was really lucky to get the last copy at $50 a couple of years ago, I really love the metallic case! Doesn't change the fact that I don't want to spend $35 - $45 dollars today.  In my opinion a shitty game can become amazing simply by adding split screen. All you need is one of your friends to make fun of it while playing it and then its hilarious.  I have a PS4, but not a PS3. Not being able to get Yakuza 4 when it's the only game I care about on this list is infuriating. 15th of May for us in Europe. How could anyone think little Mac is a good idea though? In an aerial based game like smash who would actually think to give him no viable aerials. It just seems really silly form an outsider's perspective The OP said the were new...not Nintendo. The actual post of Facebook says additional.

&gt;A new update for Super Smash Bros. for Wii U adds not one, not two, but fifteen additional 8-Player Smash stages - free of charge! The Wii was significantly weaker than the PS3 or Xbox 360, and look how the market reacted.  Horsepower rarely determines the "winner" in the console race. &gt; So what? Consoles can't stand up to PC but they seem to be doing okay.

The issue is that having underpowered hardware makes it difficult for 3rd party developers to create games for Nintendo's consoles. This submission has been automatically removed because it is one paragraph long or shorter. 

Your thread may need more detail or breaks our rules for being too specific (such as "which of these two games should I buy?") or too general (such as "what is the best PC game"). If your thread was asking for suggestions about what games to get, /r/gamingsuggestions, /r/ShouldIbuythisgame, or /r/askgames would be better places to ask.

If you think that your post was unjustly removed, please send us a [message](http://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2FGames)."


*[I am a bot](/r/AutoModerator/comments/q11pu/what_is_automoderator/), and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2FGames) if you have any questions or concerns.* That was never my implication, though I can see how a shallow appraisal of what I said might lead you to believe that it was.

It's not the idea that people wanting to kill people in a video game that I find troubling. What I find troubling is that people legitimately cannot see the difference between, "Kill the people with guns" and "kill the people without guns who are begging you not to kill them."

So they come to the Internet, "Oh, I can kill terrorists who are trying to murder me in Call of Duty, but I can't kill innocent civilians begging for their lives in Hatred? DOUBLE STANDARD! HYPOCRISY! FREEDOM OF SPEECH!" That shows a mental disconnect. I wouldn't expect them to do anything different than what they do with battlefield.  Expect multiple paid DLCs for maps, a bs premium system, and digital deluxe edition, microtransactions, and every other money making item they can add I got most of the LEGO games on Steam for like 40$ total, including the Batman and Marvel ones.  Not a racing game, but the rubber-banding in NBA Jam was infuriating. If your team was ahead by too many points, all of a sudden you would start missing most of your shots, even dunks and layups, while the other team was suddenly able to swish full court shots. It even did this when playing vs a second player! 

I can understand the concept, and I think it is needed in order to keep a race or sports match from being a boring blowout, but care should be taken to ensure it's not ridiculously apparent. Except for that open battle net thing. To be fair, the use of the word new was by the OP on Reddit. The facebook post they linked don't describe them as new stages, just additional 8 player stages. &gt; Sniper Elite was free on PC a while ago 

Just because it was free on PC does not mean it was free on Playstation or Xbox.

&gt;ps+ had Brothers almost a year ago

GWG had Thief free almost a year ago too so I guess Sony should not have even bothered including it.

Honestly, I hope you guys making these stupid statements in this thread are young and will eventually learn how to make a point. Your statements are full of bias and logical fallacies. SMDH you guys can't make coherent arguments.  This submission has been automatically removed because it is one paragraph long or shorter. 

Your thread may need more detail or breaks our rules for being too specific (such as "which of these two games should I buy?") or too general (such as "what is the best PC game"). If your thread was asking for suggestions about what games to get, /r/gamingsuggestions, /r/ShouldIbuythisgame, or /r/askgames would be better places to ask.

If you think that your post was unjustly removed, please send us a [message](http://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2FGames)."


*[I am a bot](/r/AutoModerator/comments/q11pu/what_is_automoderator/), and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2FGames) if you have any questions or concerns.* It honestly would have helped the public realize it was NEW and not an addon. It also probably would have saved Nintendo some trouble with profits. This happens more in missions that involve the protagonist chasing another character, not street races per-se. It would be weird if you had to chase a target to his/her home, but she kept hitting other cars and crashing, forcing you to slow down and wait.

On missions where you have to kill someone that involves vehicles, usually you need to chase him/her for some time (while rubberbanding is active. He is always faster than you) and then the effect goes off and the NPC acts like a ideal NPC, with it's flaws and such. Then they sometimes crash their cars. The reason they are able to build a game as ambitious as they are on a budget that is (currently) half that of GTA V/Destiny is because they don't have a publisher, they don't have advertising, and they arent being sold in stores.

The way it works now, for every dollar a game makes, X percent goes to the publisher, Y percent goes to advertising/marketing, and Z percent goes to the retail store where it was sold(steam, Xbox Live, PSN, Best Buy, Target, etc.).  With all these people reaching into the pool and taking their cut, very little is left to the actual development studio.

Because Star Citizen does not have a publisher, they have basically zero advertising, and they are the only ones selling it, they automatically increase the amount that they make per dollar--which allows them to spend more on the actual development of the game while maintaining the same ROI. There's a difference between significantly weaker and "holy shit lol this thing is literally a handheld" Also the WiiU is significantly weaker and lost horribly. How about we analyze the market in it's current state? That makes sense. Complaining in general isn't bad though, which is also a vibe I'm getting from some comments here. I was going to buy this until I saw all that it was missing and the people who made those reviews probably should have looked into it a little more as well. Just FYI as this wasn't listed at the end in the trailer this is coming to PC. http://store.steampowered.com/app/319630/ I would take you seriously if you weren't clearly a fanboy just judging by your name. I have no affiliation, only the conclusions I've come to after owning all 3 consoles. can someone explain why all my critical posts of star citizen (via a different account) are getting secretly deleted? What do you mean by that? They didn't make any more large stages with this update, they updated large stages by removing hazards and then allowed them to be in 8 player smash. Obviously it wasn't just an issue of how large the stages were, but even if it was, what constitutes a "large" stage and a "small" stage? You can technically fit 8 characters in the smallest stage, but it wouldn't be any fun. I don't mean fast travel between towns, that could work fine.  I mean it wouldn't fit in DD to fast travel back to town from some dangerous location, since the journey back is also a huge part of the game (especially considering how dangerous it gets at night). While another blood Dragon would rule, I feel like we should just keep it to one game.  It's already perfect. I think the issue is the third-person shooter perspective. I don't think any of the previous Battlefields have had a third person infantry perspective, and although [it's certainly possible](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TkyB7S9Mh18), I'm unsure as to how DICE will implement it, if at all.  BF 1942 had a similarhad  faction set up. Also it a star wars mod which inspired battlefront There is absolutely a disconnect between the two though. For one thing, while GTA makes an effort to make it's NPCs realistic, the game makes it clear that the world is your plaything; it's a sandbox. Along with the ragdoll physics and the constant sexual innuendos and parodies of real world objects, GTA makes it very clear that the world isn't real and the tone in general is light. 

Hatred may not try to purport it's world as being real necessarily, but the tone of the game is dark, it suggests a fucked up idea that no one is worth keeping alive, everyone deserves to die, and because of those attitudes I'd argue that the game will affect people who play it seriously negatively. I don't think anyone these days really believes that videogames cause violence, however people are far more accepting of the idea that videogames can cause people who are already mentally unstable to act out. *If* that is the case, then a game like Hatred has the potential to cause some serious problems with some people when factoring in everything above. The wormhole travel looks immense 8) I totally understand where you coming from. Yes, there's a difference where murdering a civillian is optinal or required to. But it is really thin and in many games it's just "yeah, you can kill them. you don't HAVE TO, but you totally could". I reckon in some of the MMOs you get quests to kill human non-agressive npcs.  
You have to agree that the difference in that motivation is almost arbitrary. "Go kill this guys! They are bad guys! I am a judge, you're an executioner!" and "Go kill this guys! You are one fucked up individual, you just hate them all". I mean, it's a so fine line. I totally see your point, but seeing as either way it's murder, it's still an unthinkable thing to do, we're just used to it in our games.  
If you look at most online games, there are lots of this motivational and moral questions that are never asked. In counter strike you PLAY AS TERRORISTS. No one has an issue with it? You going to bomb some shit or hold hostages. In other games you play as nazis or vietcongs, you play as a race to destroy other race in some cases. Or you just kill for fun in games like Quake. No one bats an eye. So why would anyone have an issue here? Just because civillians? That is one strange moral system of values.  
I say that if this game will let even one agressive dude let his anger out and not take real gun in his hand, then it's all worth it. Be the maniac in virtual reality.  
Games do not lead to violence, we already know that. I even go as far as to say that games probably decrease violence. I have no problem with violent games, whatever motivation of the main protagonist may be. Yeah except for that, D2 had options for both ways of storing characters From what I understand they have no plans for western release?  The first Cheating AI that comes into my mind is Age of Empires 2 "Very Hard" AI. When it's resources stockpiles are low, they simply cheat and instantly add another 1000 resources. What makes it competitively bad? It's not that I don't believe you, I am just genuinely curious. Character imbalance? Bad engine? Stale meta? But you can do that later in the game... I'm interested in Transistor and I don't have it.  I am probably not the only one.

Besides, not everyone has heard of it.  One nice thing about Plus is getting a game you are unfamiliar with, trying it out, and enjoying it.

Plus isn't for everyone and I still dislike online being tied to it, but I get 6 games a month for at most $50 a year.  That's about the cost of one newish game. I think that's a damn good deal and I am not alone in that thinking. Decent chance being buff as shit was part of the problem there. Yea I plan on passing this.  After playing the first beta it didn't feel like it should be a seperate game, more of a addon to Battlefield 4.  It's only a reskin turning army styled teams to cops and robbers.

Glad to see there's going to be a BF4 update atleast. You mean like the last 2 quarters where they made millions of dollars? Perhaps the second account is shadow banned? I would test it out by making an unrelated post on this subreddit and seeing if it shows up. But don't think that its some conspiracy theory.  Avoided all the worst trends in gaming except for the one that involves rehashing endless sequels of stale franchises perpetuating the salient lack of originality in the industry. If I hadn't read this thread i would assume that meant 15 new maps  Transistor was so poorly written it actually made me angry.  I loved Bastion and was extremely disappointed.  I don't mind a company making money, because that's what they do. But the most I'm paying is $60. If I need to pay $150 for the full product, screw it, I'll stick to [insert other game here]. This, even the recent gameplay didn't have AO and had very little AA. AO can make a huge difference with lighting I wish they made it so you could use custom stages in 8 player mode Too much space The devs aren't bothering to hit people over the head with the idea that killing a lot of people is a bad thing.  If they had a narrator saying you are bad for playing this game every other minute it would be an indie darling.  Subtlety is dead. &gt; What I find troubling is that people legitimately cannot see the difference between, "Kill the people with guns" and "kill the people without guns who are begging you not to kill them."

I think you're out of your mind personally.

I can tell the difference.  I will no issue killing unarmed civies.  They're not real people.  I don't care.  It's a game.  Stop trying to bring morality into something where it doesn't matter at all. Postal 1 is kinda the opposite of wacky. Not even kinda, it just is the opposite. It's dark and dry. I'm kinda surprised about that, the first trailer looked kinda bland, but this time looks pretty cool, the animations are really good and it seems you can do major destruction, i might buy it after all.

The writting is still cringy as fuck though Payday may not have full on dismemberment but it still has a ton of blood. You're not punished for killing literally hundreds of cops either. 

Regardless, that's not a good argument in my opinion, since GTA3 is pretty tame by our standards these days, but parents and the media claimed it was too graphic when it was first released. It's all subjective, and it's the same argument all over again.  I am fine with third person as long as you cant see other players around wall unless your "character" can actually see the players from first person. There were tons of sales over the holidays.  For a while, it was $300 for the system, Nintendoland, SM3DW, and Mario Kart 8 at many major retailers.  Keep your eyes open and you might find some more! I'm telling you what I'm seeing from the trailers. Or people can try it and decide for themselves?   The Witcher had to remove content to get an M rating, otherwise it would have got AO.  Yet Witcher 2 had more explicit content and didn't have to release it as a patch to get an M rating.

The EE also wasn't uncensored, you're thinking the Directors Cut patch.  

Name some games with nudity/sex scenes that only had M ratings.   Wonder what the chances of the first volumes of the LNs included being translated as well. (High?)

There's like 12 first volumes on the Japanese version of the game, well worth the price of entry alone if they're translated for the localization.  The name is a huge problem. Lots of people just don't get that it's an entirely different system than the Wii. It's such a shame because Wii U is turning out to be a great system. shadowban maybe I agree. First person just makes me think "Yep, they're making Battlefield with a Star Wars skin"

Which is fine. I like Battlefield. I like Star Wars.

But for those of us who liked Battlefront... I just hope it pleases everybody. &gt; Aside from Pac-Man

Pac-Man's the shit. I'd be interested to know how far that can stretch. Of course Sony couldn't invalidate an existing contract based on an NDA that's overridden by the GPL, but could they be compelled to continue licencing future games by that studio? Or continue selling them devkits? How would you even prove that Sony is discriminating for that reason? They're extremely selective with who gets to use their platforms after all.

It would probably have to be tested in court to really know for sure, like the other GPL grey areas surrounding things like what constitutes a derivative work. &gt; I would argue that the Galaxy games are just as linear. They gave the illusion of a big open world because you're in space and you have planetoids separated by launchers, but the levels generally only branch out in a couple of directions, the same way 3D World's do.

I found an enormous difference in the tone and style of play between 3D World and Galaxy.  That's not to say that 3D World wasn't wonderfully designed, but I felt like I was playing in a diorama rather than in some (illusion of) a big world.  Plus, the timer meant that I couldn't freely explore the levels and play around at my own leisure - I had to operate with the stress of a timer, which was, in my opinion, quite detrimental.   Can't say that I've played many, if any, in recent memory.  So even if that's true this is the first one that I may actually play. Nothing to do with balance. They basically removed/altered parts of the various existing stages so that the hardware could handle more characters.

For example, in Norfair Ridley doesn't swoop in, and in Luigi's Mansion the stage can no longer be broken I know it's a family friendly game but I would play the fuck out of Lego Jurassic World. 

Lego + killer dinos = yes please.  that does seem to be the case.  what the hell man.

it is only this subreddit.  

I wonder how many other people are shadowbanned here without even realizing it And they're working on the game the whole time - unlike Destiny. Not just one game, [3.5 games](http://zeldawiki.org/Tingle_\(Series\)#Games) actually It seems to be pretty polarizing.  I thought that they were the best implementation of motion controls we've ever seen in a game, and I never ever had a problem with them, but others thought that they never worked right.  I wonder if it's a function of people using Wiimote+ vs using a regular Wiimote with the extra device plugged in. Yeah nah. I fucking love tingle, can't wait to play as him. They have said in multiple interviews that there are three major zones, each being it's own open world I don't see how he qualifies as "another swordsman". He plays completely different then the other guys like Marth or Ike. Even his counter functions differently I'm disappointed they added Dr mario, dark pit, and Lucina were added but fierce deity link is a costume. HE CARRIES A 2 HANDED SWORD, he should be his own character!  I'm not. It's sad how much the average /r/games user seems to love edginess, especially edginess coming from a game made by literal neo-nazis. Sounds liked Hunted in Contagion but on a larger scale Well he *does* say "My name is Not Important" in the first trailer. The open nature of Nethack would make this pretty risky. Even if the skins were very cheap, restricting access to any content for any reason (other than to let the player unlock it through playing the game) would be met with hostility, and the code written to gate that stuff might even violate [Nethack's license.](http://www.nethack.org/common/license.html)

However, the license does explicitly allow a distribution fee. It does get pretty terrible if there's something big on the line though, like a new weapon or something. Then the game expects you to do perfect runs of missions that take up to 15 minutes.

I enjoy the gameplay a lot but the way this game does boss enemies and captains is bullshit. You just wait for them to attack and then dodge and counterattack. Anything else is ineffective and takes forever. Aaawful when it's enemies like Dodongo which just *won't do their stupid attack which will leave them open*. Couple this with the fact that you "need" to have at least a specific amount of DPS to realistically achieve this stuff. Hero mode is awful because all it does is make the enemies deal 10x damage and have about 20x health. How have I not heard of these? Heroes 3 is one of my favorite games ever, and these are rad. Calling it now before people complain that they didn't get the full game for 59.99.

The 'full version' of the game will cost around $100 in the form of a 'premium' or 'digital deluxe' copy that includes the season pass.  There will be bonuses you can only get from pre-ordering.

59.99 is only going to get your foot in the door and any dlc, which of course there will be, will segregate you from the rest of the community.

 Any word on the unlockable stuff that needed friend codes? I really feel like the system would have done so much better without the gamepad. Nintendo hasn't done much to argue for its inclusion outside of Nintendoland and the casuals who flocked to the Wii's motion controls don't know what to make of it. You don't have to play those games to enjoy fighting with the characters in SSB Nintendo doesn't have more quality than anyone else though. They just don't have much else. You get quality Nintendo games a few times a year and then nothing for the rest of it. There are more great games on other consoles that aren't on a Nintendo system than Nintendo can hope to keep up with releasing 3 to 4 first party blockbuster games a year. 

Also they have plenty of reasons to dislike Nintendo as a company. Even more reasons to question their ability to make good hardware. The one thing Nintendo does well imo is make games. Everything else they do kinda sucks.  I don't like Marvel all that much (I like DC so much more), but LEGO Marvel Superheroes was the best LEGO game I've ever played and it really opened my eyes to Marvel, I just hope this new game follows up on these expectations! Agreed entirely. Aside for Shadow Of Colossus, the first Metroid Prime is my favorite game ever made. I think that's why im so disappointed in the motion controls, but based upon my downvotes above, I'll just take people's word for it and pony up the $10 for this steal. Really? I found that one to be the worst. I hate the compass aspect of the game, so so much. His ground game is ridiculous though Kirino is far and away the best character in the game, to the point that she's almost broken. No one can really touch her when she's paired with a good assist and most matchups are in her favor due to her versatiltiy and excellent mix-ups. That being said, I love the game and it's incredibly fun to play and mess around with. I'm excited to see what the dev team does with the [Nitro+ Blasters](http://shoryuken.com/2014/12/09/examu-announces-visual-novel-fighter-nitro-blasters-heroines-infinite-duel/) game, as I've been dying to have Saya from Saya no Uta as a fighter in *anything*. Same with Super 3DS XL.

No they went with "new" like idiots. Half the fun of the entire concept of Smash brothers is playing as characters you know and love. For me, at least. I imagine for others as well. Yeah it's like the first line in [the reveal trailer](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ytdEYapPXdY&amp;x-yt-cl=85027636&amp;x-yt-ts=1422503916&amp;feature=player_detailpage#t=8), man.. The difference is the period after Wii u launched was a baron wasteland. The period after ps4 launched had tons of indie support and some good but not great AAA games all year.  What are you talking about? That's not a problem for kids. Makes them ready for when dinosaurs ultimately return! I thought the flying sucked and hope it's greatly improved upon in future games.  This almost certainly won't be an issue for you, but just FYI using the  symbol without registering your name as a trademark could open you to some dick alleging trademark fraud against you. I like joke characters.. You'd have to play it to understand. While they share similar ideas, the guy above you is right; they play VERY differently. Do you mean to imply that the rest of the game isn't "teenage angsty"? Because angsty edgy teenagers are literally the only target audience for this game. Battlefield 3 and 4 both felt like full, complete games to me. Buggy and broken, sure, but they easily had enough content.  Why wouldn't those be apart of it? Those are all the core of Battlefront Makes me wonder why they didn't do the same for Young Link. The new voice sounds terrible. The motion controls were never really amazing for Mario Galaxy, were they? Unless you count them hardly being used for anything as amazing.

For me who can't stand playing shooters with a controller though the wiimote was pretty good when playing through Metroid 3. You got a pack of unicorns with your smash bundle? Wow, good deal.  It says the same thing but with different words. They make it sound like they added 15 new stages, rather than modifying them. I don't really care, since Nintendo games aren't my thing, but I know that if any other developer did this, this thread would be very, very different. BF4 had a rocky start, but it's now a very good game. I'm saying the word fuck and Lego should probably not be uttered in the same sentence.  I really, *really* dont want to go back to Wii graphics. Call me shallow, but I do think having nice graphics enhances the experience.
 Hate to burst your bubble but 2001 was 14 years ago.... There are kids buying and playing these consoles that weren't even born when you worked at best buy. That isn't really relevant Some of these people have ridiculous views on what EA is going to do to the game. Who knows, they may be right, but I'll wait until the game is released to go off the deep end on EA hate *Cough* **WONDERFUL 101** *Cough* Well, the context of the violence is a little different. This game seems to trivialise violence against innocent people more so than others (not to say there aren't other cases).  Yeah I already put them on ebay though. You can still do that on the Xbox One. That part hasn't changed. 

Playing content offline is only possible on whichever Xbox One you have set as your home Xbox console. If I remember correctly, you're only allowed to change your home Xbox a few times per year and you can request additional home console changes if you send out an email.  Edit: Uh oh! Looks like the kids found out how to use the downvote button! XD

You read like you're 16 yourself. And not a very intelligent or witty one at that.

I guess it's hard before you hit puberty.  Yeah I agree with you, they're definitely different games. Meaning they can't just reskin BF4, but they're so similar in nature. They're large-scale war games with vehicles. The biggest gameplay difference is the lack of destruction in Battlefront. There's a reason everyone wanted DICE to do this game.  That's... not an open world... that's zones. The areas can be very large but if there are loading triggers for going from one place to the next than it's not an open world. Ha ha is this the level that they took all the art designers to a forest to in their E3 announcement? I seem to remember mocking the fact they had to take designers to a forest in order to know how to draw one. We've been waiting for a new BF game for years. Of course we're excited. Agreed. I encourage anyone who wants an amazing couch co-op experience with their buddy or SO to try this game. Its pretty cheap on 360. 

Just make sure you play to like I think it was lvl 9 or 10 or so when the first robot shows up. Once you get to the beach invasion level and all hell breaks loose the game becomes godlike. For the first few levels you are only killing giant bugs but that is nothing compared to the epic battles that lay ahead. 

The harder the difficulty you play on the more and better weapons you find. The rockets are incredible. 

Along side Baldur's Gate on Xbox 1/Ps2, Shaolin Monks,  and Diablo Reaper of Souls EDF is the best co-op I have ever had. It is just ridiculously fun and if you have a few beers and a free Sat afternoon this is the game to play with your buddy.

EDF EDF EDF!
 
edit:spelling People who bought a Wii u have it to play Nintendo games. However there are many many millions more that don't have a Wii u because it only has Nintendo games. For every good Nintendo game out there, there are several good games you can't play on a Wii u.  Looks like an interesting game but the pricing in the kickstarter will mean it will probably fail. I was looking to throw $15 at this but at $25 it's way more then most people are willing to pay. Not really, it still has poor texture quality, the hair is just a mound of plastic, and while that may be the style that Telltale has used in the past that doesn't mean it has to look so bad now. But really, that can't be helped since it's coming out on PS3 and PS4 so this was most likely captured on one of them. Which makes the Wii U a niche machine that will never sell well.  If you just play the games then you'll see what everyone is talking about So when you read a story and it's basically Beowulf but in a different time, place, with different characters and different ideas you call it trash too right? 

Or are you just a useless contrarian about video games?  Emmm - you have to kill civilians in GTA. I think it's about context, especially in regards to multiplayer games. In Counter-Strike you do *technically* play as a terrorist, but who really contextualizes the conflict in that game as moral CT's vs. immoral terrorists? There's no frame of reference of good vs. bad, because everyone has a gun. Terrorists sometimes blow some stuff up, but that barely has any context, either. You could replace "terrorist" with almost any other word, and it would be the same game. Bananas vs. Counter-Bananas, same game, because the original game lacks any sort of (meaningful) context. It might as well be a football game.

Then, that just leads further into the grey, because at the core, the context in Hatred CAN be simplified to, "Click on the 3D models to make them disappear." It's a point-and-click adventure game at that point.

If the game let's one person live a fantasy instead of a cruel reality, that's tip top, but if we're going to use that justification, then we have to also say that it isn't worth it if this game incites one person to real world violence. Luckily, there have been no studies that link video games and violence, but some have shown that playing aggressive games does heighten competitiveness and aggression specifically tied to competition (not violence.)

Any case of someone saying this game "lead to violence" will mostly be either a cop out by the media, or that one poor soul not understanding his own mental illness.

In all, I don't really have a problem with the content of this game. I think it's a tacky that they're trying to exploit the rabid "SJW" arguments that have swept the Internet over the past year, where their detractors give them limitless press based on their controversy and not their game. I think the people trying to defend this game by painting the developers as some sort of crusaders against censorship are gullible fools, baited into the Dev's marketing scheme. I don't care about Hatred, but I hate the people who hate it as much as I hate the people who love it.

Oh shit, what if you could name the civilians in your copy of Hatred? I could name them all after the frothing Redditors condemning/defending this game! Just wanted to correct you, it's 2 PS4 games, Thief will be for the PS3.

edit: I'm wrong, Rogue Legacy will be on PS4/PS3/PSVita The ideas are the same, but the gameplay is definitely not advance wars, f zero, metroid, wave race, excite.  It's fucking fantastic.

I'm not even mad that I just recently bought it on disc.

The "install" music, a track called "For Faith" is alone worth the price of the game.  I'd have to play it to understand? Battlefront 2 was one of my most played PS2 games. I've played the hell out of Battlefront 1 and 2, and I was a massive fan of Pandemic Studios. I realize they play differently, but they share a lot of very similar concepts with Battlefield. Enough so that I think if all they do is put a Star Wars skin on Battlefield, it will be massively entertaining. Which just makes his playstyle center around rolling and landing stray hits. Thank god he's not viable. Madden has done this. Very annoying to have a player fumble for no reason. I will say that I enjoy it in Nintendo games that have it (Mario Kart and Mario Party) I wish there was a Wii U version I really hope GOG trys to get the Indiana Jones and the Secret of Atlantis soon. The Monkey Island puzzle adventure games need a comeback I think Vanguard: Saga of Heroes is the most brown game I have ever played by a long shot Nik Ammar - Glass Walls.

It's on Spotify. **The Crew** has by far the worst rubberbanding I have ever experienced. 

It has Mario Kart levels of rubber banding combined with 4 hour races. 

Yeah 4 hour races.

You know how much of that race matters? **THE LAST FUCKING MINUTE**.

THAT IS 3 HOURS AND 59 MINUTES OF **FUCK YOU**.  How do you manage that without restricting camera control. People do not like restricted camera control, even in such a specific instance as looking around a wall.

It would also make the game much more of a hassle to code.

Not saying it is a bad idea, it just seems improbable. &gt; Doesn't change the fact that I don't want to spend $35 - $45 dollars today.

Well, do what I did. Buy [this with free shipping](http://www.ebay.com/itm/Wiimote-Built-in-Motion-Plus-Inside-Remote-Nunchuck-Controller-For-Wii-black-/281387177328?pt=UK_Controllers_Attachments&amp;hash=item4183fb9570) and play away. Controller works perfectly and feels exactly like the real thing. &gt; If your Steam name is longer than the in-game maximum for character names, you'll crash other player's games when they try to connect to you.

Interesting. I wonder if it's only during the connection phase or if you can change your name after players are already in. Theoretically you could summon other players, then change your name and be immune to invaders.

&gt; Now invading the world of HeyDarkWraithsCheckThisOutLOLOLOLOLOLOL

    darksouls.exe has encountered a problem and needs to close Nintendo is notorious for overpricing their hardware. The Wii cost what amounts to about $450 here when it was released and it sure as hell didn't cost nearly as much to produce one.  
The Wii U GamePad is cutting corners wherever it can. Cheap, low-resolution screen with colors nobody would call vibrant, a hilariously low-quality microphone, digital buttons only and an absolutely pathetic battery life.

I agree that it was probably the GamePad that made them unable to price their hardware competitively but that's the aftermath when you over-rely on being "innovative" by including such an expensive controller (which is almost never wisely used by software, not even Nintendos). Yup. This is his name tag: http://25.media.tumblr.com/tumblr_mbvr6nQvRA1r35y2lo1_500.jpg I wouldn't mind this at all. Hit&amp;Run still is one of my favorite games, I'd love to see how Lego handles it.  Or super3DS instead of new3ds. It seems really simple, honestly. Someone at EA  did confirm there was a [third person component](http://gamerant.com/star-wars-battlefront-dice-third-person-details/) to the game in a while ago. Though he didn't go into specific details.  Your submission has been automatically removed. Please don't start your title with unnecessary phrases like **"PSA"**. Feel free to delete and resubmit without including that in the title.

*[I am a bot](/r/AutoModerator/comments/q11pu/what_is_automoderator/), and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2FGames) if you have any questions or concerns.* &gt; What I find troubling is that people legitimately cannot see the difference between, "Kill the people with guns" and "kill the people without guns who are begging you not to kill them."

I like to drive through pedestrians in GTAIV's Middle Park. I also murdered nearly a thousand gunslingers while playing through *Call of Juarez*. Would I do that in real life? Of course not. The only "disconnect with reality" here is your attaching some sort of cause or context to the new virtual market of interactive media. 

Also I gotta say... did you seriously try comparing *HATRED* to *Shadow of the Colossus*? I'm not sure I have words for that. Would a film critic attempt to compare *The Expendables* to *Boyhood*?  They've stated that they will focus on the old movies only.

But if I know EA they will probably release the clone wars later as DLC to make an easy moneygrab. That does not sound like the game will have a 3rd person option for general play. Otherwise you would think he would just come out and say it. $35 if you get it through Stardock's website. Battlefield 4 felt like a complete game up until they wouldn't let me play with my friends because for two weeks you weren't allowed to play on DLC enabled servers even if you paid for the DLC

But then they patched it to allow you to finally use the product 

Of coures, that patch broke my game so that I was unable to actually join any server for a few months.

Basically my point is fuck EA/DICE and their bullshit.  Premium is a stupid fucking scam that needs to stop.  Not allowing players to play because they didn't pay double the cost of the game EVEN IF THEY BOUGHT THE DLC is downright wrong.  Not to mention the game was a buggy shitty mess that then didn't even work

Too bad too, because I had a lot of fun before they screwed me over Thanks teach.  Wiimote is closer to using a Mouse and keyboard for FPS games. Much better for aiming than a controller Yeah, you get the same situation with racial discrimination. It's illegal to say "you're black so you're fired", but it *is* legal (with at-will employment) to say "I don't like you so you're fired". How do you distinguish between them? Maybe the reason they don't like the employee is because they're black? Hell, even in states that don't have at-will employment the racist employer will be looking for the slightest slip-up as an excuse to fire them. How do you prove that?

And yeah derivative works are a big mystery as well. Like currently APIs can be copyrighted (unless Google's appeal is successful in Google v. Oracle), so what does that say about the API of GPL'd software? Let's say you write something against a GPL library's API. Do you have to license it under the GPL?

Realistically most of this won't ever come to light because game companies avoid GPL stuff like the plague. December 18th is the confirmed date. I was initially expecting a November launch for Battlefront but I think we'll see a December launch very close to the movie.  Clone Wars DLC confirmed? /s\&gt;inb4 "don't give them more ideas." The game cube had a way better line up and more diverse use of nintendo's ips, and actual 3rd party support, in just its time on the market. games like metroid prime, pikman, f zero gx. wave race blue storm, The best piece of news from the article is this

&gt;We have actually made the decision to specifically tailor certain maps to certain game modes.

It's also exciting to see them actually giving out some information. Since this was an exclusive interview maybe we will see them starting to give us more info up until the spring.  &gt; It's not the idea that people wanting to kill people in a video game that I find troubling. What I find troubling is that people legitimately cannot see the difference between, "Kill the people with guns" and "kill the people without guns who are begging you not to kill them."

You mean the pixels right?  Because you keep referring to them as if people are murdering actual people when all this is are some pixels that have been programmed to run around and cry.  The reason I don't see a difference is that none of it is real... I mean if you have a problem with this do you also have a problem with people enjoying serial killer movies or novels?

See the thing that really worries me is the people who keep equating this to something in the real world which it isn't.  I worry because those people obviously have some trouble discerning a real victim vs some pixels and that is an actual problem. No.  Not exactly.  DLC is downloadable content specifically.  Developing extra content has no problems, short or long term, if it's installed by something you physically own rather than a server hosting and activating it.  Servers aren't accessible forever.  The longtail problem is solved.  Sonic and knuckles is a good example.  Lock on technology.   Nintendo had a few crazy gimmicks along the way too.  The 64DD in japan only brought the Ocarina of Time extra content in the form of Masters Quest.  Both are extra content, but don't have an expiry date.  There are ways that developers can make new content for their games without requiring an online server to download it from. It's three, PS4 gets Transistor, Apotheon and Rogue Legacy.  /u/1800OopsJew hasn't addressed your ability to recognise the difference between who you are trying to kill. They are raising the issue that some other people might not.

I think it is also worth mentioning that morality is probably worth considering in all aspects of life. I imagine we all do it without even realising. I always forget that the default view in consoles is different from PC for the Battlefront games, on PC the standard view is first person so I'm always a little confused when people don't like the idea of playing Battlefront on first person I don't think so, but they've been pushing out weekly updates for Space Engineers and I'm pretty sure there are two separate teams working on these games anyway.  and everyone was totally confused that xbox one was a new console right? You are dramatically overstating the affect that the name had on console sales.  By that term I do hope they don't mean give it a push out of the door 6 months earlier than it should have been released like BF4. That's absolutely what I'm saying. To me its like if reddit posts suddenly got monetized; either they started letting in blog spam or upvotes converted to money somehow. Don't you think the community would change?  Oh sorry you are correct, I'll edit my comment. One of my main complaints about low-poly or pixel art-like art directions in games is when devs do nothing special to it, there's nothing to make it stand out against those other low budget indie games but this game has done such a marvelous job with it. It doesn't feel like it was done because of a low budget on the graphical side of things but rather it feels like it was truly done for the art direction the devs are aiming for.

I absolutely loved that jump into Icarus, there were something so lively about that. The kickstarter trailer was hilarious imo and the game already has quite a lot of character in some areas, i'm looking so forward to this ! That so dumb it takes 2 whole months to make it from US to EU I agree with some of your points, and I think the whole handheld/console idea is horrible. However, the Wii U was a flop for many reasons other than it's capabilities. It did not help that it is not really a huge leap in graphical fidelity, but I think advertising and timing were the real problems. /r/ShouldIbuythisgame I'm saying this, and the writer of the article is saying this. Yes, PD is old, dusty, and ugly, but there are just some elements to the game that I've never seen before in a video game when I first played it, and when I last played it just yesterday.

TL;DR, I think first-person shooters peaked with Perfect Dark. Since then, they just got prettier, flashier, bigger, and more hectic but not quite as good. Which is sad, because if someone built off of Perfect Dark (something Rare themselves have proved incompetent at doing *scowls at Perfect Dark Zero*), it would arguably be the greatest FPS of all time. UnMeme is decent if you need your fill of dank may mays. If LOL nerd references isn't your thing, it's not that great.

Pixel Piracy is fun, and Full Mojo Rampage and Nihulmbra are worth it in the bundle, but not as stand alone games imo Pretty awesome it comes with PS+. It's the kind of game I would normally pick up in a drought, but now I won't be waiting. man, DD and dark arisen were absolutely amazing, its a real shame capcom has no fucking clue how to make good decisions and is making this a japan only release. I'm hoping she'll be in there since Marvel already announced her solo movie. SC2 had plans to do something similar, not sure if it ever happened. I played on PC, the best possible version, and it was still shit. &gt; the Mario kart dlc &lt;gives you more&gt; tracks for a mere $12. That's a far cry away from &lt;giving you more maps for&gt; $5 

really?  a "far cry"?  

 Eh, you get used to it.


Which is a sad thing in itself. Been loving these simultaneous releases lately, such as the gen VI pokemon games. Since this isn't a limited deal, you can always get it later for $20 when you have a nunchuck. &gt; avoiding the worst trends 

except region locking LEGO City: Undercover. Freaking amazing game.  They are going to remake the first one so you can always wait for a that. By that logic, you shouldn't have made a comment saying to try it, hmm?

The game is shit, I said don't waste your time with it. If you want to, that's your choice.  Then maybe you've never played Battlefield? I've poured many many hours into both franchises and they both play very differently. Won't touch this, PSV version of the original was the only game I've ever had that managed to crash and hardlock my vita up, consistently. On the chance you have a decently high-end gaming pc, it is really worth playing this game on an emulator. It looks incredible in high-res with the fan-made HD texture pack. Some Wii games still look like shit when uprezed but this one can easily pass for a late-gen PS3/360 game or Wii U game.  Dude I'm psyched for Tingle maybe Not Important is an extraterrestrial sent to cleanse the planet &gt;The EE also wasn't uncensored, you're thinking the Directors Cut patch.

Oblivion saw an upgraded rating over similar circumstances, going from T to an M when the ability to see the nudity was found. Same deal with the original version of GTA: SA. Witcher EE stayed an M even after the DC patch and its nudity was *far* easier to access than Oblivion's or SA's.

&gt;Name some games with nudity/sex scenes that only had M ratings.

Manhunt, BMX XXX, Playboy: The Mansion, The Guy Game, Conan, God of War. Three of those games are specifically geared towards nudity and sex too and still only managed to get an M rating. One of them used videos of real women's exposed breasts. So why would a few exposed breasts in painted/drawn pictures push Witcher to an AO after these titles?

There is nothing to indicate that the Witcher was censored to avoid an AO.  Very funny, but a guy above spelled it "Notem Portant", so I thought the devs actually gave him that name. Wait what kind of changes to hazards/features, and could you choose 8 player and do a 1v1 with those changes? &gt;I don't agree that it is a shit game.

You can't "agree' with whether or not a game is bad. You can like it or dislike it, but the quality of a game is objective. And Thief is objectively a pile of shit. I feel the opposite

In all games, I invest/immerse into the story and have fun with the mechanics

In GTA, if I kill a ton of civilians, Im not really immersed or anything...it doesnt really feel like killing a bunch of people, it feels like fucking around with a games silly AI and physics and all that

when you make the story, the part you actually invest into, revolve around killing civilians it kinda changes everything...it actively tries to make you very aware that you are killing ordinary people

it kinda reminds me of hotline miami...the killing is distracted by the flashy sounds and points and everything...finish a level and you have to do this dreary walk back through and realize the magnitude of mayhem you caused

except with this game, they removed the flash and made the whole atmosphere like the walk back in Hotline Miami Excuse me? This isn't directed at you, but generally if you are one of those people who subscribe to 'games as art', you can't write these things off because they aren't real. Lord of the Flies for example, is a horrific tale of human society breaking down and kids killing one another. Sure the kids aren't real, but there is more there. You might try to say it's only a book, some bit of fiction, but it carries weight. Games as art has the ability to do the same thing, so killing unarmed civilians isn't something that can be glossed over by people who view games as art. Again, this isn't directed at you or assuming that you view games as art, but a more general response. The current market says games like candy crush and ios/android free to play games are making more money than anything. I mean I see far more ios game commercials these days than something you need a $600 graphics card for. Power matters to a very small niche. To everyone else they could care less.   


The market also loves dlc, free to play,  and annual franchises. Call of duty, madden, and Destiny were the top 3 best selling games. All things you would find plenty of hate for around here. The market speaks volumes but I don't find anywhere that says something has to look prettier than something else.  I understand your point but as consoles never adopted expansion packs you're basically saying DLC should not exist for console developers.

I simply think it's a mistake thinking DLC can make a feature rich game such as Mario Kart incomplete if you don't have access to if years later. DLC adds to the experience but without it it shouldn't make a game hollow. thanks, all the answers were really helpful but this one was most intuitive to me. If you tell support, they should give you a refund. I sense some mad over the Majora's Mask *new* 3DSXL.  In GTA, during races it's fine, and during missions it works alright by slowing down the vehicle being chased, but it's absolutely horrible when trying to escape the police. Nomatter how fast you're going, they will catch up to you, yet if you were to get into a cop car, it's entirely impossible for you to reach the speeds they do to catch you. You can be in the fastest car in the game, and the cops will just pull up along side you and crash into you and spin you out, if you're racing a friend in the fastest vehicle in the game in a cop car, you get left in the dust almost instantly. I even tested this by flying a jet low to the ground, and the police vehicles actually drove at the speed I was flying to try and "catch" me. They were glitching all over the place and phasing through cars to do so. I know you can still do it on the Xbox One. I'm talking about strictly offline on a console that isn't set as your home.  I'm pretty sure you could be away from your "home" (licensed) 360 and still play your downloaded stuff offline just by being signed in. &gt;GWG had Thief free almost a year ago too so I guess Sony should not have even bothered including it.

What in the world are you talking about? Thief isn't even a year old yet and it's never been on GWG. Just have people invisible if they are outside of your line of sight, and appear in when they are.

Not saying that is the best way of handling it, but it is better than restricting the camera. &gt; BF stands for battlefield or battlefront

Battlefield.

&gt; I didn't say anywhere that other BF games are like this.

You didn't. I was using Battlefield as an example of why I don't think there is any reason to be concerned about Battlefront being locked behind a pay-wall. DICE has been excellent about this in the past as mentioned in my post. It also shouldn't be forgotten that TL2 was a hell of a lot cheaper than diablo 3 was, you could of bought the 4 copies pack of torchlight for less that Diablo 3. I can't read the article because I'm at work, but I think Perfect Dark is my favourite shooter ever and contender for the best. The story was a bit weird, but interesting and adventurous - with a good variety of environments and enemies. The multiplayer mode was incredibly robust and allowed for full customisation, not only of your player character but of weapon sets and bot AI. The counter-operative mode was something I had never come across in another shooter and was interesting and a lot of fun. The weapons were imaginative and the alternate-fire modes were always cool, even if some of them were crazily powerful.

Everything about this game was great, but unfortunately it has aged like a cheese in the sun. I'm sure most of this is said in the article, so apologies if I'm just repeating things, but PD was amazing. How do these work?  Do they use the vWii or is it somewhat native Wii U? thats what im hoping for haha, im very excited for the coming wave of captain marvel merch and inclusion into to things haha.  I think it is justified as it is way harder to make an AI for a strategy game than for a racing game, and a human player is always going to take better decisions, so they give the AI a resource advantage to balance the game. Point taken on the handheld thing, but Wii U's lesser power is far from the biggest reason it's floundering. Please read the subreddit rules before posting. This breaks rule #13. Suggestion and request threads are better suited for subreddits like: /r/gamingsuggestions, /r/AskGames or /r/ShouldIbuythisgame. I find the edges of the helmet on the top/bottom of the screen a bit annoying too, I tend to like a more open HUD Epic Pop - Glass Walls (found it in the yt comments): https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MfRSaxaSkTI The press has done it for the past 3 decades. Really grasping &gt; Russian killing Americans.

You have not played Red Orchestra 2 Man, I'm just going to call it a tie. I think Perfect Dark for me would take the edge if there was a PC Port. Half Life is always in my mind because I replay the series pretty much every year. Bring Elvis to Steam! The PS2 has very few games that can output to 1080p. Moreover, the Vita is far, far stronger than the PS2 and we're talking about next generation.

How many people do you think are going to be moving on to TVs that have resolutions higher than 1080p? A future handheld could very well look just about as good as the Wii U does now, and the "handheld or console" part could be pretty decent marketing.

I don't think it's going to work (and I wouldn't want to see it) but I don't think it's because of the reasons you've given. On the other hand, the *only* time a lot of other people has had frame rate issues is the entirely of co-op.

Just because you either avoided or didn't notice issues doesn't mean other people didn't have them. &gt; EA doing some dickery like this with Battlefront

None of the games you mentioned were developed by DICE and were done by EA studios that have a track record for such content. DICE does not have such a track record and given their stance on such pricing models, I guarantee they would push back heavily if EA tried to get them to do it.

EDIT: Out of curiosity, what is this about ME3 multiplayer? I played ME3 and its multiplayer and while there were microtransations I dont remember anything about paying for a second game? I only played it for a short time after finishing the campaign though. Bioware does have a history of tons of small DLCs (ME2, DA:O, DA2). Actually, the max resolution this time is still something like 2880x1800. So it's more than the previous 1024x768, but not really futureproofed... Morality is a shortcut that helps us judge an action without having to think through all the possible consequences. In a game there are no real consequences. You can still apply your moral values to the game world, you can set them however you want and have real emotional responses to things that don't actually affect anybody, that's pretty much how roleplaying works. Well, port over games that already exist / already are going to exist, yes. That is true. I had to explain to my friend just the other day that a Wii U isnt a controller for the Wii. It all lies in the fact that they did a terrible job with marketing and naming for the console. Yeah but EA has the final lock and key. DICE makes good games and EA takes good games and drops a huge dump on them. i hope the damn ewoks won't be as overpowered on Endor this time around. If you played a game with just AI and didn't interfere the rebels would always have an overwhelming victory. Really? Battlefront is getting pushed? I always though Ziggler or Bryan deserved the push. We filed for trademark middle of last year just for that reason.  The console has problems, sure. The online part isnt up to par, the account system isn't great. Bad 3rd party support. 

But DLC wise, they've been quite fair so far. MK8's DLC is great. Super Luigi doubles the number of stages. It's great. The only abusive kind of DLC I kinda see so far is Amiibos, which gives you very forgettable (mostly) perks for 14$. But people like the figurines, so whatever. I can easily see that on the front page of /r/gaming. Commandos (also spanish) would have been perfect. Handheld games and console games are a different market. Just because one is more lucrative doesn't mean there isn't money exclusively in the other market. Call of Duty, Madden, and Destiny all advertised their "cutting edge graphics" You're blatantly lying to yourself if you think ps2 era level of graphics could survive in the AAA console market. sorry but for a game that I own i wont pay 15 euros and I love heroes 3, I have the game and use unofficial mod that is basicaly the same thing.

and its no expansions. This is easily among my top five of the last generation and definitely the top jrpg. This is one of the few games I have ever replayed its that good. I'm super looking forward to x later this year.

The only problem i have with it is the same I have with every jrpg and that is having the game encourage me to vary my team, but at the same time making such a tactic suboptimal. This was exacerbated by the affinity system which was otherwise a welcome addition.

I also love how little it holds your hand at least in regards to exploration and other secrets. Not to spoil anything but there is a certain secret that can alter your entire team balancing in an instant but the game never alluded to its presence.  You have to find it yourself. Yeah I can't believe they made a character that requires you to utilize a different playstyle smh No problem! It has a really well done atmosphere, really captures that pulp interpretation of violent psychosis. Hope you enjoy it! My bad, I read the rules and guess I skimmed it over. Deleting. Nothing gets me titillated like the pro censorship crowd getting salty over a defeat.  I agree. It still lets the hard copy keep value for collectors, but it also allows people who just want to play the game to play it. To be fair, they did a lot of that after the Wii U was found dead in the water. I wouldn't be surprised if they're being so cool *because* the Wii U is selling slowly. And it's definitely picked up steam, so it's arguably paying off. I can deal with those but I find no reason why you shouldn't be able to turn them off if you so wish. The Wii was problematic because it was designed for 480i/p CRTs at a time when almost everyone was adopting 1080p LCDs.

Presumably we're not going to be hitting such a shift by the time the next generation is around the corner (I don't think 4k will be all that popular by then, to be honest.) so we won't have such a weird disconnect, whatever happens. But Diablo 4 is called Path of Exile.  Not really if it does suck. The stage selection in Smash has definitely been sub par. They are all massive or really gimmicky. The only "good" stages so far have been the returning ones and even they aren't amazing (except smashville of course. &lt;3 Smashville.) They won't even bring back fan favourites like Yoshi's Story Melee or Fountain of Dreams.  Too much sense to include that as a sequel rather than dlc Oh, someone unironically used the term "console war." How do they compare to Lego City Undercover? You're over simplifying it to get your point across, and ignoring the details that separates a good DLC and a bad DLC. 
 I'm a 26 year old dude with a career and a design company, and I'm playing this. Speak for yourself dude.  I'm a Mario Kart fiend (god, I wish I had the money to get a WiiU and Mario Kart 8. Hopefully soon!) and needed to get 3 stars on all of the courses on all difficulty just to do it. I just hate how obvious the game makes it. I am using a mushroom to get by someone but they are neck and neck with me? Then you get hit by a blue shell in a spot where it's impossible to recover your speed in time to win. So fucking annoying.  Then you would have players pop into view when your player character rounds a corner.

I think that would be jarring, so then they would need to put in some sort of fog of war mechanic so you know what is not visible, but you character knows the layout.  Would you then put in a last know position and have characters fade away slowly in weird frozen mannequin poses?  

I think I am making this sound way too complex but characters popping in and out as your PC rounds corners would look bad, and be confusing/jarring to players. Being able to output to 1080p is not the only thing that specs are used for. People seem to think everything that makes a computer can be dumbed down to "dose it look nice?" Notice how old games/hand helds can only have a few people on screen at once? Try selling a modern day game with that feature So, I know a bunch of people had trouble with that. But I've never understood why. They mentioned before the show they were gonna show their new console, they called it a new console several times, and it was outputting video that the Wii is literally incapable of doing. Anyone who listened to the E3 conferences shouldn't have been too confused. &gt;How would you like a new console? Yeah, we kept everything the same but just added some RAM to make your experience better. It's new!

Erm.  Isn't that basically how computers and consoles WORK?  "Here is a new computer.  It is very similar to your old computer, but it has more RAM and a faster clockspeed."

New doesn't mean "reinvented from whole cloth."  Heck, I defy you to tell me ANYTHING "new" that came out this year, that I can't rephrase as "that's just [X thing from a previous year] with [X features changed.]"  Go on, pick something you like and think is new, and we'll apply the same logic.

At some point you need to just accept that new things are frequently old things with modifications.  And that's not necessarily a bad thing. &gt; burn innocent women alive

How is this any different from playing an evil character in, for example, Fallout 3, and blowing up megaton and killing villagers and shit? Sure it is OPTIONAL in that game, but you still have the OPTION to not do it in this game. By not playing it. Would "market share" or "losing shit tons of money" sound better? I feel like they'd end up giving dixie a lame playstyle. I think Lanky is the way to go. I never said only teenagers play it, I'm saying that that's the target audience. Pokemon targets younger ages but has a large userbase of teenagers and adults. Well X-Box 360 didn't have [20 other widgets](http://digthatbox.com/sitebuildercontent/sitebuilderpictures/Big_Lots_Wii_Accessories.gif) it was selling next its console.  

My first thought if I didn't know any better was that Nintendo was selling a $300 dollar portable wii. Which has nothing to do with the argument the comment you're responding to addressed. Do you have a source for that definition of morality? I'm not trying to discredit it, I'm genuinely interested.

I wonder if everyone can have that same kind of separation from the game world to the real world. I'm also not sure everyone can change their moral compass on demand as you describe. I don't think i would be comfortable playing this game, for example. That would be really cool if they did that I like this game on paper, but the trailers reek of a particular brand of artsy hipster teen movie bullshit that kills my enthusiasm. I like what they're doing and I hope it's successful, but I can't see myself enjoying this. Which still isn't the developers fault. An artist(whatever, a videogame is art even if Hatred is pretty shitty art) is not responsible for the way people react to his creations. I have never played a Starfox, FE  or Mother game in my life yet Falco, Ness and Marth are my favorite characters. Well they are my favourite in Melee anyways. Duck hunt worked in such a way that it was only compatible with old tube TVs.  If you were to plug an NES into a modern LCD, duck hunt wouldn't work, it's got something to do with scan lines.

Porting it work with the Wii remote was probably a good bit of work, not a million dollar project or anything, but still more work than the average VC game.  I'm honestly surprised they ported it. NBA 2K does this currently. I play the career mode with my MVP caliber player. We'll be dominating and all of a sudden my shots that normally go on dont and the AI is just killing it on every possession. 

The WORSE though is that the game will sit you so you can get some rest. Hey, that makes sense. However, there are times when I've had a double digit lead in game 7 of a playoff game and the game will sit me only for me to get back into the game facing a deficit and an almost impossible climb to victory. It's so blatant.  Then, no you can't. 

On the 360, I think you could play offline just fine because the account that was recovered is still there in the offline state. If it were online, it would prompt you that the account had been recovered by another console. It's been a while, but I think that's how it worked. 

I also remember that there wasn't a set home console for all your downloads. Whichever Xbox 360 you were on when you bought digital content was the "home console" of that content.  Still better than having people abusing third person to look around corners. The way they worded it and the way some people have been talking about it it sounds like they made those stages larger (mostly the "Adjustments have also been made to balance the game and make for a more pleasant gaming experience." part). I haven't seen them yet so I guess I don't know for sure though. 400+ hours in BF4. 400+ hours in BF3. 400+ hours in BC2. Can't find accurate stat information for games earlier than that.

I already acknowledged that they did play differently. But people acting like they were completely divorced from each other are flat out wrong. I'm mostly just being pedantic.  Buying tracks for $x is not a "far cry" from buying maps for $y.  It's the same goddamn thing.  The only difference is in perceived value, which is subjective.

As far as what makes "good" DLC and "bad" DLC, I'm not interested in arguing such a subjective point.  Who am I to tell someone that paid $5 for a map pack that they got a bad deal?  If they're happy with it, that's their business. I hope you enjoy playing it. :) Eh, the game is calling *you* the Antagonist. It'd be like playing Makarov instead of RAMIREZ or Roach. By what logic?  Saying that Plus members who are getting the game already should try it for themselves?  How the hell is the illogical?  Makes sense to try something that is part of a paid subscription.

&gt;The game is shit

So you've tried it then?   FUCK that's some cute waifu.

/eyes wallet Yeah it had a few issues for me, even though it is definitely the best.

1. Camera was too zoomed in, and relied to heavily on splitting the screen rather than zooming out.

2. Paused for cutscenes sometimes every 10 steps, completely stopping fun.

3. Game breaking bugs a lot of the time. I'm about halfway through with my GF and we've had to literally shut the game off because a cutscene wouldn't trigger or because i got my character stuck in a spot I literally couldn't get out of.  They were talking about how they visited the original filming locations, I don't know why you'd mock that?  Not balance testing.  More like optimization, trying to keep the game running at 60 fps with 8 players.  Many sacrifices needed to be made. The AI didn't feel like it had any rubberbanding on lesser speeds however, which just made it weirder. Local multiplayer could still be a thing. The nVidia Shield allows for four player's locally when connected to a television via HDMI. This sounds like wishful thinking. The content that is out currently is not enough to prove that the game will live up to every feature they have mentioned. I hope it lives up to it, but I won't believe it until I play it. Well they shipped a bunch to APEX, but that really shouldn't have made that huge an impact on the total market. I just want an Operation Genesis 2. I find nothing more frustrating in *Madden* than your receiver dropping a well-placed throw at a critical moment near the end of the game. A.J. Green, wide open, ball is lightly lofted to him, not a defender/distraction in sight and it ricochets right off his hands.

Talk about loss of immersion. I feel like that's sort of the point of the game. Murder *is* murder, and most people think that murder isn't murder when it's army guys or when there is a good reason or something. The fact that you're murdering people just to murder people is really what gets people. Where are these "some people"? Because every study suggest violence and video games have no correlation, and there is no proof to suggest that people that shoot other people did so because of video games. That's simply not true. In the last few years Nintendo's reserves have dropped dramatically,  far faster than you might think.  [Source](http://www.gengame.net/2014/06/nintendo-has-around-4-7-billion-in-the-bank-3-billion-in-short-term-investments-10-billion-in-current-assets/).

The money they do have in the bank might be losing value thanks to the same monetary policies that are allowing them to eek out a modest profit. Basically,  shit happens,  and waiting through years of failure isn't the most secure survival strategy for a business. It really isn't one at all. The investors may never stand for it,  and the longer Nintendo goes on like this,  the more catching up they will have to do. They will also have to overcome a serious loss in brand appeal and consumer trust. 

The longer Nintendo goes with out a hit,  the more expensive and difficult it will be to compete.  Exactly, it was pretty hilarious to watch actually. When they made the Wii, and started focusing on the super-casual crowd, that's fine and all, but they lost the interest of people like me, who enjoy games that are about more than plumbers collecting stars. Then they released the WiiU, and lost the interest of the casual crowd too. They alienated two of their biggest customer-bases, and all they have left is the die hard Nintendo fans, a shrinking group.

They may be releasing solid games, no doubt, but they aren't releasing *amazing* games by any stretch. Smash Bros is good, but it's just another party-fighter. Making kart racers, platformers, and fighting games isn't going to wow anyone in 2015. Most of those types of games have been done just as good by indie-devs and cost half as much.

People act as if Nintendo is some bastion for gamers, but, to me, they seem like a company who just wants to find a gimmick to sell. Nothing they do makes me feel as though they are trying to serve my interests as a customer. Honestly the whole company has this air falseness to it.  You kill Germans. I wouldnt make any sense. Game is based in the European theatre of WW2. In the expansion its Japanese vs U.S.A. I think you're exaggerating how much EA is influencing these larger developers. DICE has been owned by EA for a long time and other than Battlefield 4 being a buggy mess, they have been absolutely fine. BF:BC2 is one of DICE's best games under the umbrella of this "evil EA" you're describing. BF2, BF:1943, BF3... all excellent games.

In my honest opinion, I bet DICE tried to do some crazy stuff with destruction in BF4 and ended up with a mess of a game they didnt have enough time to fix. EA most likely forced them to push it out anyway because at the end of the day, they need to release a game and cant give DICE forever to fix it. I cant believe, as a software developer, that the server bugs, poor optimization, and game crashes were a result of some EA executive making demands of DICE. People tried to blame Sony's PSN servers for Driveclub's abysmal launch too and we know that it was actually a result of the buggy server code that Evolution wrote, not the servers.

EDIT: I should add that BF4 wasnt even all that buggy on PC. I played it launch day and other than a crash every so often, the game ran fine. The only issue was the game crash when taking down the tower in Shanghai which caused them to remove the map from official server rotations. Nobody's complaining.  They're addressing a misunderstanding. https://pay.reddit.com/r/Games/wiki/faq#wiki_i_want_to_do_an_ama._where_do_i_begin.3F It just doesn't belong in a smash game. That is like having a kart in Mario Kart that for some reason can't use items. Its piss poor game design IMO. I don't think it will detract that much in sales since I feel like the majority of people who want a game like this know about it already. They'll just miss the random viewers that find out about from the Steam store page. Barring emulators, which may still bring over some of the original system's flaws, there's a great 360 port available for it, I'd recommend trying that out for a nice trip back nostalgia lane.

To me, Perfect Dark trumps Golden Eye in pretty much everyway I can't conceive why anyone would pick it over Perfect Dark (yes, heresy, I know). It's bigger, prettier, runs faster, controls better, has improved multiplayer, and the story is bonkers (in a good way).  Unless they changed their minds I believe this game is only focusing on the Rebels and the Empire. No prequels. SCHOOL SHOOTER WAS CLASSMATES WITH SOMEONE WHO WATCHED THE TRAILER FOR HATRED Its not about the difficulty (every game have some progression system)... neither about the game mechanics (that physics looks great)

The problem is killing innocents not only despite, but BECAUSE they are weak and helpless...

This - this simple idea - is what drives people to burn pets alive, or rape children... It is the desire of power in most concentrated form and basically pure evil... Mario Kart and Smash already didn't sell as well as people thought they would. Dipping into franchises again will only increase brand fatigue. Without third party support, Nintendo needs to come up with some great ideas fast. yeah ffs Marilyn Manson got blamed for columbine. They didn't do that well this holiday season. They had just cherry picked some numbers to make it look that way. Just yesterday they revised their projections,  and are telling investors to expect half as much in profits this year than were previously promised.  Source that Smash has large sales to a casual audience. Last I checked it was New Super Mario Bros and Mario Kart at the top of the Wii sales by a massive amount with all the other first party titles selling far less. Using mod mail here: http://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2FGames

It is probably the easiest way to contact the mods directly and they can help you how to set it up.

Oh and check the FAQ here too, there's also a section about AMAs:

https://pay.reddit.com/r/Games/wiki/faq#wiki_i_want_to_do_an_ama._where_do_i_begin.3F Yeah, but "has potential" could be used to describe every pre alpha sandbox Minecraft-like in early access for the past couple years.

...and literally none of them have delivered. This submission has been automatically removed because it is a game streaming website.

If this post is something like a game stream, podcast, tournament stream, live blog/vlog, etc., please submit to /r/gaming or /r/vgstreams instead. Submissions to /r/Games should be for the purpose of informing or initiating a discussion, not just with the goal of entertaining viewers.

If you believe that your submission belongs in /r/Games, it may be better to [submit as a self-post](http://www.reddit.com/r/Games/submit?selftext=true) and include some additional info about the stream. Or if you're quite certain that a direct stream link is the best way for this to be submitted, [message the moderators](http://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=%23Games&amp;subject=Please+reapprove) and ask us to approve the post (please include a link to it).


*[I am a bot](/r/AutoModerator/comments/q11pu/what_is_automoderator/), and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2FGames) if you have any questions or concerns.* this is already *teenage angst fantasies: the game* It's not abuse if that's a key tenant of the mode. No one developed 3rd person games and went, "HOLY SHIT GUYS, the players figured out that they can look around objects with the camera floating above them. What an exploit we didn't anticipate in the slightest." Then every single 3rd person game after them didn't notice either. 

It's fine to not like 3rd person, but don't make up shit about abuse of mechanics to support your opinion. 

Personally, even though the rate of FPSes being churned out has slowed in recent years, I'd be far more happy with a 3rd person game just for some variance. Multiple games have done a very good job of supporting both modes as well, which would be ideal.  Games for the Wii U have basically only just started coming in the past year. We've got Smash, Hyrule Warriors, Pikman 3.  By the end of 2015 we should have a new Starfox, new Legend of Zelda, Xenoblade, Splatoon, Kirby, and Yoshi. Nintendo has always been bad about 3rd party support, anyway. It's always about the first and second party title. 

It seems like nintendo rushed the Wii U out the door with hardly any games on, not to mention the abysmal advertising. They'll keep on paying for the bad release, but they may yet recover, because any Nintendo fan should be super pumped for this coming year.  Hardly. It's not like Capcom announced they would be making UMVC3 before they launched MVC3 you know. For that matter, the same can be said of the DLC tracks for Mario Kart. If Nintendo sees a significant market for more SSB4 content, they'll probably consider it. Is it the McDonalds food tray because its a social commentary on how that stuff is really bad for you? Or does it go up extra fast because the tray is soaked with really potent chemicals? I'm ~20 hours into the game.  I have a few gripes about XBC, but the story is really where the game shines and it's been pretty fun so far.  Good companions, and banter.  Plus the environment and setting is great.

The collection side quests can be annoying if you can't get the correct drop.  The benefits of trading, and how to properly use the gem machine are poorly explained.  How an item affects your abilities is poorly explained (you can see how it affects your current abilities, but -1 in an ability shows in the same red color as -25, similarly for +1 and +25).  Makes it tough to compare items to each other; you end up equipping one and then comparing it, then unequipping both and equipping a 3rd thing.  High Sell price does not always indicate better equipment.

I struggle with countering a vision.  When I do, then another vision replaces it within 5 seconds, and since there's only a few ways to inflict topple to cancel a vision, a vision usually implies a party wipe within a few rounds.

As well, they've added a new mechanic right at the point in the game I'm at (~20h into the game) [Spoiler](Creatures have "vision auras" that counter your attacks, and prevent you from seeing visions of their attacks, unless you "dispel" them first.  It's very annoying to need to wait for Shulk's "Turn" before you can damage a creature --the same issue I had with the Mechon--, and often the AI will run willy-nilly off to attack even though they will deal no damage.)

Also, you'll need to take a break after hearing "We can do this!" and "It's Ryn time!" and other voice snippets ad infinitum.  I haven't played the game for almost a month now because I don't need to hear "BOOooooNE...UPPA....STREeeeaaaaam EDGE....HAMMA Down!" over and over and over and over again.  It reminds me of Psychonauts' Kochamara fight ("Hard to avoooooid...AREA ATTACK", "Overly Intricate...Combination!") &gt;People seem to think everything that makes a computer can be dumbed down to "dose it look nice?"

You're right. They do think that. So they would buy this sort of thing, no?

You're arguing with the wrong person though. I've felt that handheld games have had far better entertainment values since halfway through the GBA, and feel that that remains true to this day. People *always* bring this up in Nintendo threads. Having cash reserves doesn't mean your company is safe from successive failures. If they continually post losses and fail to capture the market, customers will stop caring (more than they already have) and shareholders will back out. Companies don't live by the money they have saved up, they live by the money they make. Growth is everything, stagnation is death. This submission has been automatically removed because it is one paragraph long or shorter. 

Your thread may need more detail or breaks our rules for being too specific (such as "which of these two games should I buy?") or too general (such as "what is the best PC game"). If your thread was asking for suggestions about what games to get, /r/gamingsuggestions, /r/ShouldIbuythisgame, or /r/askgames would be better places to ask.

If you think that your post was unjustly removed, please send us a [message](http://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2FGames)."


*[I am a bot](/r/AutoModerator/comments/q11pu/what_is_automoderator/), and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2FGames) if you have any questions or concerns.* I loved the original on PC. One thing I was hoping they would add is a timer for your runs and a track of your fastest times, or challenges for completing the run in certain times. Because you speed up when you have perfect rail landings, there are some cool challenging ways to get across levels super fast with a lot of quick hops on rails, but there's no actual rewards for doing so; in fact, you miss out on a lot of points by doing this so it's pretty much actively discouraged. Ah you're talking about consoles. That wasn't unique to EA or ME3, almost all developers did that at the time. Ubisoft was even worse than EA was with it and I recall other developers, including Sony/MS doing it at least once. You have 0? You don't have any of the Mario games, Pikmin 3, or Smash?  COD:MW or MW2... or both had a 3rd person lobby so they might do that for BF. I hope they include view change over a different lobby so it doesn't fracture the community. Well that's my point, I can totally seeing them releasing prequel stuff as DLC later. And DLC is fine, and I would be fine if it was only Rebels and Empire, but if they did do that, I would be like, well, that really should have been in the base game. It was before. it sounds like it's virtual wii mode, so you need numchuks and all that shit The Chozo lore from the first game was fucking fantastic, and the lore from the second wasn't bad either.

Here's an excerpt:

*The power of our temple has been enough to halt the spread of the poison on Tallon IV, but that which remains thrives and grows more concentrated, gnawing on itself in the dark passages beneath the planet's surface. Whether it can ever be truly destroyed is not for our eyes to see. But there is something else. We Chozo are drifting, tumbling through space and time as the Great Poison eats away at our sanity. We wake in dreams. As the veil of lunacy descends, as past and future blend and shuffle, one image appears and flickers through the landscape, wraithlike. It is the Hatchling, the Newborn, walking the path of corruption, a lone figure shining in the toxic shadows. She comes dressed for war, and her wrath is terrible. Do our eyes look backward, seeing the Hatchling as she once was? Or does she approach even now, arriving in our race's last hour, a savior clothed in machines crafted long ago by Chozo hands? Poisonous clouds drift across our vision."* Honestly, I thought the evolving levels were awesome. If anything, they didn't have enough of them. Probably a result of having to develop the game on 10 year old hardware. The circlejerk is strong here. /r/games mods have a list of "shadowbanned" users that automoderator quickly deletes comments of. They generally don't use reddit's built-in ban function because it sends the user a message when they are banned and when they try to comment.  I'm going to be buy a PC for this game, shame it does not come to PS4 I'm not sure of the limits of the 'rewind time'  mechanic but it reminds me of the memory remixing sequences from their previous game 'Remember Me.'  I'm expecting puzzles of similar structures where it'll take a few tries before you get the 'right' result you want. E.g. reversing EVERY action is not a good thing. You need to reverse the relevant ones.

I like the art style of the game (the 'drawings' appear in gameplay while the character is exploring her environment). However, I'd like to see more reviews/video impressions before passing judgment. I remember the early episodes of the Walking Dead Season 1 being slow. Galactic Civil War only according to the website, but you can bet your sweet ass cheeks we will see a Clone Wars DLC or sequel for more CASHMONEH HEY! Aren't you that droid I was looking for? Are you named Josh and play blue Yoshi in Smashbros.

 All I know is that everything EA seems to touch is fucked up somehow. Battlefield 4 is a great game and I haven't really had any trouble with it other than occasional stuttering lag, but lots of people seemed to have more problems. You know goddamn well how it's different. Quit your obtuse bullshit.

&gt;You have the option to not do it IN THIS GAME.
&gt;By never being IN THIS GAME.
&gt;Fallacies. Fallacies. Fallaci-hays. Who's got time for that This submission has been automatically removed because it is one paragraph long or shorter. 

Your thread may need more detail or breaks our rules for being too specific (such as "which of these two games should I buy?") or too general (such as "what is the best PC game"). If your thread was asking for suggestions about what games to get, /r/gamingsuggestions, /r/ShouldIbuythisgame, or /r/askgames would be better places to ask.

If you think that your post was unjustly removed, please send us a [message](http://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2FGames)."


*[I am a bot](/r/AutoModerator/comments/q11pu/what_is_automoderator/), and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2FGames) if you have any questions or concerns.* I've played a bit of the early alpha (beta?)  for Satellite Reign. 

If you've ever played Syndicate (The original, not the FPS), prepare to be pleased. 

I am looking forward to seeing it grow, there is a lot of untapped potential in it already but still felt like a good solid portion of the base gameplay was in. 

I haven't checked on it in a few months, I might have to give it another look.  Games are art, and they can invoke "feelings", but I also believe that adults have the rational ability to know reality from works of fiction (books, movies, games).

I didn't feel great playing Spec Ops, and War of Mine, but that didn't change me on real life. It's an experience you have, but nothing more. Same as watching horror movies, you get the scares, but deep down know it's fiction.

Besides, the game is rated for Adults, who normally have the ability to differentiate real from fiction. If an adult can't, there is something wrong with the person, not the game. Why dont we call Battlefield BF, and and Battlefront SW:BF (Star Wars: Battlefront) &gt;This - this simple idea - is what drives people to burn pets alive, or rape children... It is the desire of power in most concentrated form and basically pure evil...

If this game is capable of driving someone to burn pets alive, or rape children, then Im sure that person is most likely already pretty fucked up to begin with and would have done it eventually without the help of this game.  Never played it, sorry. My understanding is they want to fit current gen hardware (xbox one, etc) into a good handheld device that can be easily adapted by third parties.

I unfortunately don't have an article to back this up, but I can hope it's true. Market has changed since then and now you go against D3 and PoE, which is really difficult, especially with the latter being F2P. It worked with Star Wars &gt; What if in call of duty, enemy soldiers were american and protagonist was russian.
&gt; 

As a non-American, it would be a fresh breath of air.  Well you somewhat got your wish, game releases in less than 2 hours Thats not true, there are studies that prove there is a correlation between the two.  I'll go ahead and say this game actually looks *boring*. 

What is the motivation behind doing any of the things the game allows one to do? Scattershot mayhem is going to get old in two sittings. There are so many awesome games emphasizing strong storytelling and combat derived from meaningful plot that I don't know why people would invest their free time in something so downright *bland*. Boring! I disagree, personally I was disapointed Diablo III didn't have a dedicated minion class like Necromancer in Diablo II. Was very happy to see someone make something similar for Torchlight 2 but more ramped up. Quit dodging dude, answer the question. If I look at an innocent super mutant captive in Fallout 3, and shoot her in the head, blowing her body into a hundred pieces, how is that different from flame throwing an innocent(also unarmed) character in Hatred? "You don't have to in Fallout 3" isn't an answer, by the way. Not at all. The levels where extremely linear and had no ramps. The style of the levels consisted of just a foreground and a background.  I hope you don't refer to BF series because they are selling very well, around 30m copies sold for both games. that being said, I don't like what EA is doing with BF when it comes to micro transactions and DLCs and I'm fully expecting Battlefront to be in the same boat on release.  I don't want to have an option to pay x-amount to unlock everything on day one.  Hell, I don't want to see unlocks and levels at all, they are getting tired-some. How about you just give us all weapons from the start like it used to be in older BF titles. They all do bad things, especially Ubi and EA, and EA has improved, but like I said I do not trust them and will regard anything they create with great caution. They also have some of the least ambitious games out there.  That can allow for a degree of polish, but there's a ton of things Nintendo rarely if ever tries to do,  plenty of kinds of games they don't make,  so its not really apples to apples.  Well, if that ever happens, thank god the GoG version is literally uncrackable :) Hope there's a much better singleplayer than what SW:BF2 offered. The problem I had with that game was that I kept losing matches even if I played really well (not hat it means much against shitty AI yeh...). Like even when my K/D was s.th. like 40/3, the AI and map imbalanced often meant that the other faction ended up winning anyways. The worst is, that you needn't even be killed towards the end to lose, which would've made it much less frustrating.

 It's not "motion controls" like Mario Galaxy where you waggle the controller to spin. It's more like a keyboard and mouse PC shooter, which is perfect for an FPS like Metroid Prime. The Wii remote / nunchuk combo is way better than joystick aiming. I mean, way better. Like aiming with a mouse better. Absolutely correct but the problem eventually gets fixed and as I stated I am used to ATI/AMD idiosyncracies.   I don't recall the whole list, but for example the racers don't drive through the course in Mario Kart, Luigi's Mansion isn't destructable, Ridley doesn't appear in Pyrosphere, Pokemon Stadium 2 doesn't change modes, and Wii Fit Studio doesn't have mirrors anymore.

I don't think you can 1v1 in them, but I don't actually know. No mario games, no Pikmin 3, and I wouldn't play Smash with a wii-mote. Isn't the whole neo-nazi thing from one of the devs liking a single page on facebook?

http://www.polygon.com/2014/10/20/7020277/ceo-behind-hatred-neo-nazi-anti-islamic-responds The New 3DS is not really a new console in the same way that the Super NES was to the NES.

Nintendo does have an issue with using different naming conventions. Each handheld mid-gen update uses a different one as well.

* GB - GB pocket - GB light
* GBA - GBA SP - GB Micro
* DS - DSi
* 3DS - New 3DS

I don't see any reason to not have called it 3DSi, since it is pretty similar to the DSi update. I read it months ago, why don't you read it? Lmao what a lame ass comment Go with HotA, it feels like just another expansion faithful to the original with VERY robust random map generator, I can attest to that. WoG is more of a rework of the whole game from what I heard. They are also NOT compatible with each other. If there is third person, I'm guessing most servers will lock it such that you can only use first. I actually hope there are no Jedi or hero characters. Dying by them was no fun and they were very unbalanced. By their very nature they had to be.

It was probably the one aspect of Battlefront 2 that turned me off of the whole game. I much preferred the original. &gt; Handhelds are never going to be close to consoles in power. 

Cell phones are already equal to or better than current generation consoles.

http://www.gamnesia.com/news/wii-u-stronger-than-many-initially-thought

http://www.legitinformation.com/samsung-galaxy-s5-specification-and-improvements-over-s4/

http://www.anandtech.com/show/6972/xbox-one-hardware-compared-to-playstation-4/2

Both the Galaxy s5 and the Wii-u get around 160 gigaflops. XBox One and PS4 are about that as well.

What is interesting to note though is this;

&gt;S5 have Adreno 330 @578 MHz which have 166.5gflops of raw processing power, while S4 (i9505) have 51.1gflops and S4 (i9500) have 86.4gflops, thus S5 have 226% and 93% more power when it comes to GPU.

Improvements of that magnitude hit smartphones almost yearly, the gap between the s4 and the s5 being about 12 months, and we see almost 200% improvement in some areas and 100% in others. Consoles don't increase that much even when they get 6+ years between hardware versions.

So yes, it would be easy for Nintendo to make a new handheld that beat current consoles, as phones already do. Probably not much better. As far as i'm concerned the "Wii" name is something I associate with a system I bought and rarely ever used. It's the only system I ever regretted buying.  Another example of this is in the Grand Theft Auto games... If you kill someone silently in a very isolated location where no one could have possibly seen you... the cops would still know. 

Mafia 2 and Watch Dogs have a great system where even if someone sees you commit a crime you can get away with it if you deal with the witnesses. Nothing game changing; "just a couple of blocks." How stupid do you have to be to take that literally... "a couple new blocks" means nothing WORTH WHILE was added. Perfect Dark was a really good game that came too late in the N64 lifecycle to be properly appreciated. But saying that it's better than half life is just weird to me. 

Half Life wasn't good. It was **best**. It was completely ground breaking. It made everything that came before it look like a steaming pile of shit. I just don't think you can compare it to anything else since, not even Half Life 2 comes close to what Half Life was when it launched. &gt;It is the Hatchling, the Newborn, walking the path of corruption, a lone figure shining in the toxic shadows. She comes dressed for war, and her wrath is terrible.

Damn. The Wii U is backwards compatible with Wii games, so I don't see why you'd wish that. Was he bout to shove his head up his ass? Considering Japans monetary policy,  your comment is akin to someone praising the American auto execs for getting a bailout.  Nobody here is claiming they are two completely different gameplay styles. We are simply saying that while on paper they sound similar, when you get in and play, they do not play like each other. Basically, our stance is that we would be terribly disappointed if BF ended up being a re skinned Battlefield. If they in-fact played the same, you wouldn't hear those sentiments being the vast majority. The galactic map part would be somewhat difficult to design. How is it decided what action to take? Do you do a vote? That would take forever. OK so you decide to have someone as commander like in BF4 and they make the decisions. How do you keep them from trolling, do you have a vote kick function? That's a rather inelegant solution. 

What if one side completely dominates several battles and now has all the gear unlocked while the other side only has a few items. Complaints about kill-streak bonuses from COD would pale in comparison to complaints over an overpowered team racking up all the bonuses. If you take away buying units and bonuses then isn't just a server with a map rotation but instead of just changing maps it goes to another screen and a fleet moves around? 

Finally, who has the time for it? Most people only play a few rounds of an FPS game before moving to another server or quitting the game. I don't know about most people, but I rarely went through an entire Galactic Conquest campaign in one sitting and when I did I won all the battles. How much longer would it take if I was playing and could actually lose, prolonging the campaign? What's the point in playing this campaign mode if you're usually going to be dropped into one already in progress and you probably won't finish it?

Galactic Conquest was an amazingly fun game mode, but I think it'd be difficult to take anything resembling what we all loved from the previous games and making it completely multiplayer. I could see it as singleplayer/splitscreen, as it was before, with a CO-OP option. This would allow you to save your progress, would be without worries of an online game being stacked to the point of ruining the experience and would dispel questions about how to get an effective multiplayer strategic commander, you and your friends, or the player that's hosting the CO-OP session, decide like how it's done in BF3 CO-OP. I guess the main thing I would shoot for if that the CO-OP allowed 16 or more players to play it together or against each other so you and your friends could have something close to a multiplayer experience, you wouldn't need a server rental and you could still save and resume allowing you to get a complete campaign. It would be separate from the normal multiplayer mode so a lot of the issues I raised wouldn't be a concern.

A CO-OP option is the best way I can see DICE doing it, I think taking GC from Battlefront and making it fully multiplayer would be a disaster of a game mode. My point was that was their plan before Perfect World bought them, not because of Perfect World. Uh, I heard that they were gonna have third person mode, from this site that is tracking "what we know so far." Not sure if that is confirmed. i dunno why you think a modern handheld would be ps2 level of graphics....  a handheld released in 2016 could easily have Wii U levels of graphical fidelity.  As someone who's worked on "huge, awesome total conversions that must have taken 1000s of man hours to make and never paid a cent.", I'm not sure how I feel about it.

I agree in that it feels proper that modding should be free, and remain free.

From a self-interest standpoint, it would be *nice* to have some form of monetary compensation for the hours and hours put into things.

From a practical standpoint, it'd be a nightmare for teams to administrate, especially ones that are organized over the internet internationally. Who gets what portion of profit? Who's work is valued more? Do we need an accountant, because no one else wants to deal with this shit?

Plus a lot of modding teams start out as teenagers and the like. There are maturity problems there, that handling serious amounts of money responsibly aren't healthy to mix with either.

On your point that there's going to be all sorts of shitty, garbage skins around being charged for.... That's the case anyway, with easily moddable aspects of games. Go look at all the skins made for something in the Quake 3 era sometime. A *lot* of it is shit. Focusing on the name is just a way to shift any and all blame from the product itself.  BF4 online play is crazy good. The CTE patches have really fixed the game. &gt; Optimizing development for those systems will only improve as time goes on

Yes and no. I think the last generation sets high expectations for what will be pulled off this generation. Last gen saw a lot of new technical issues to overcome. If you look at the PS3, there were a lot of issues around utilizing its architecture correctly. While in the past devs could rely on a powerful single core, this time the work and to be split up into much smaller tasks. The GPU wasn't as powerful so extra effort had to go into working around issues there. This caused early games to look radically different than the later games.

This time around there isn't as much to solve. The lessons learned from the last gen apply here. Many of the engineering projects were started in the last gen are maturing now to take advantage of the modern hardware. They are already in a pretty good place framework wise. The low level access and optimizations are in place. Some quirks might be worked around, like dealing with the Xbox One's memory, but I don't think the strides are going to be as major.

I saw a lot of similar speculation with the early stuff about the Wii U. When it was pointed out how weak it was, fanboys would shout things like "GPGPU!" and "optimizations!", like those weren't already being used by everybody.

The gap will probably widen, but I don't think that really matters. The "damage" has been done. It was done before Nintendo even released the console. They have a reputation that third party support sucks, so even if it came out on par with Sony's and Microsoft's offerings, that demographic would have still been wary. Fewer sales would have happened on that platform, leading to less interest by the publishers. We just cut the the chase this time.

Honestly though, I don't get what people clamor for. The first / "second" party titles always seem to be the interesting ones. They take advantage of the hardware the best and are generally the better games. This is true of all 3, and all of the current consoles have really great experiences in that area. I mean, it's nice art, I think "stunning" is a lofty adjective to use though. when i play BF i dont notice any character outside of a realistic view area other then my team when they are grinding my asshole. i always starting running towards where i want to go and move the camera like a madman swapping targets quick. dont have time to pay attention to shit not directly in front of me. to busy killing before being killed.  Circlejerk? I'm a fan of Battlefield 4. I have been enjoying it recently. However, the levolution part of my comment wasn't anywhere near the point. 

The point is that DICE and EA have consistently released a product in past years that hasn't been playable around launch and for months afterwards for a large portion of the playerbase. There are still many, many bugs and glitches in 4. Battlefront is probably going to be an ambitious game that struggles to reach it's potential just like BF4. The game will have many issues at launch and they will probably take months to fix. That's what DICE has done with the main BF franchise and I would love for them to change their stripes but it's important to realize some of the potential issues with the game due to DICE's past mistakes before hopping on the hypetrain. 

I'm not saying that the game won't be good but I'm just going off of what DICE has proved since the launch of BF3.  &gt;Xbox Live is much more stable and reliable

what xbox live have you been using?  maybe microsoft can make a deal with whoever runs yours to run the one everyone else is trying to use :\ No the levelution shit was still in all the dlc.  Oh my god Yakuza 4 for free. Wow. Wow. I'm so excited.  Honestly I'd rather them eschew first person altogether and just have it as an extra option like in the previous game. I'm tired of every game now being first person. I'm not saying that it's bad! I love bc2! I love the destruction in bc 2. I played bc2 to death. I'm saying they would t make battlefront that way. I loved the first game, and the second is more of the same with more enemy variety and insane weapons with some new classes. If you can play it, play it! I got the Trilogy for $50 literally days before this was announced.

But I don't regret it. I was a major Metroid fan growing up yet never had a Gamecube or Wii so I missed the Prime series and it just didn't hit my radar. I beat the first one and am almost done with the second. I'm blown away, especially by 1. But 2 is easily 90% just as good. I'm just a little over the light world/dark world trope. I've realized that Metroid is kinda exactly like Zelda for adults. I deffinitely understand the complaint about them never shutting up, but I don't see any workarounds. The reason they were put in was so you could tell what your party members were doing without needing to watch them. I don't really see any way around it that wouldn't be intrusive or compromise game play. and the good news is they're probably developing battlefront off of bf4 so it should be great. I am not and do not. My name is Joe and my favourite game is Yoshi's Island, and my favourite colour is blue. [As someone who's worked on "huge, awesome total conversions that must have taken 1000s of man hours to make and never paid a cent.", I'm not sure how I feel about it.](http://www.reddit.com/r/Games/comments/2u0k94/valve_content_creators_earn_over_50m_through/co53hwr) In games like ARMA being able to see characters around corners creates a metagame that awards camping and makes the game slow. The game is vastly different on servers where 3rd person mode is locked and it opens up more possible tactical choices than simply just waiting and looking over a wall. It is very boring that you can sit and wait for a guy to look the other way and then instantly go out and shoot him. Getting killed like that feels like getting shot in similar ways by wallhackers in counter strike. In those games it is fair to call it abuse, since it is obviously hindering a lot of game choices since camping behind walls is always going to be the dominant strategy. Ya I kind of doubt the voice actor was too expensive, and the writer was most likely one of the developers 12 year old goth brother so no money lost there. the free games on psn are almost always great and next month seems to be no exception. I played it on PS4 too (when it launched) and it was a mess. Crashes constantly, random graphical bugs, awful loading times. Its cleared up now though.

EA does have a track record of fucking up games but you need to look at the underlying developer too. Most larger studios don't get influenced as much by the publisher where as smaller studios do. DICE and Bioware have been consistent in their delivery.

You see more of EA's influence in these larger developers with the presence of add-ons and expansions. EA wants them to milk their franchise without ruining it. It isnt in EA's interest to fuck up a franchise or make a shit game because it wont sell. They are publicly traded after all and they have a fiduciary responsibility to make money.  It doesn't look like downloading them separately is possible, it's in one lump of 7-8gb If you can that is great for pyrosphere and stadium. &gt;  They want Star Wars battlefront: COD, complete with kill streaks. It's going to be a focus tested, dlc foundation.

okay right. I was sitting there listening to Roberts talking about how they were simulating the secondary muscles of the player characters and I thought to myself \: "it would be hilarious if at launch you downloaded a 36gb file, open it for the first time and the game is just a 8 bit rip off of Tetris". I'm not a part of the dev team. :P That's a lot of time to invest. Sidenote. I'm watching the Wire right now. Love the username.  Yeah but it's free so it's not like they are scamming you or anything. Unless there are some people that rushed out to buy Wii U's and copies of Smash upon hearing that news. I would have to disagree, I find it hard to keep the aim steady. Yea this is stupid. Honestly the best way to get people excited about the game is to make a demo and not let them play the demo. I think it could be fun for maybe like 20 minutes or so, but having to spend even a second listening to that awful writing is to high a price to pay. You mean Diablo III. The solo players being killed are just small casualties of war. When you roll on a PvP server, you literally roll in a world a war. If you want to quest and wander, you need to accept the fact that sometimes you will run into the enemy and have to kill them. Sometimes you might run into a whole group of enemies, and have to die. Sometimes you will be in a group of allies, and wreck havoc. 

The problem is people roll on a PvP server and expect a PvE experience. That's what kills world PvP in so many games. Space Battles: No way is this in the base game.  This has DLC written all over it, if they decide to implement this.

Jedi/Sith: This could be awesome if they implement some mirrors edge movement for Jedi's.  

Bots: I'm skeptical they implement bots. They gave up on bots for Battlefield after Battlefield 2? I think that was the last game with bots. Why go back to bots?  That is a bunch of resources used for AI programming that they most likely feel is not necessary. Yes! He's my absolute favorite! This MK just keeps getting better and better To be fair, they didn't use the word "new". When you put "new" in quotes like that, you're implying that you're quoting someone, but neither the title of the submission nor the text linked to contain the word new. So is the persistent universe going to work like Eve where you can just go around and PvP if you'd like? This is a tangent and should be fully regarded as such, but Dota has recently introduced human-rubberbanding mechanisms in its' last few patches, granting bonus experience and gold to teams who are falling behind, scaling exponentially with how far behind they are. 

[This is a game with a charted experience graph](http://www.dotabuff.com/matches/1023366553) that I won several months ago. 50 minutes into the game, at the edge of defeat, we won a teamfight with no deaths, a feat that virtually undid all of the progress the enemy team had made for almost an hour. At a new baseline level with them, we were able to easily crush them in about 10 minutes.

Before this patch, with no rubberbanding dynamic, the match would have been an exercise in masochism, with our team waiting for 30-60 minutes to be stomped while the enemy played with us like cats, dragging out the entire match to their own pleasure. They would have been able to drag the match out for 90 minutes, farming us at the spawn point infinitely. 

This is no longer possible, and games are taken much more seriously, with far less people giving up. A single mistake over the course of an hour can be the deciding factor in a game, and you are fully at the mercy of your own team; sometimes one foolish mistake from a single person can undo everything.

I think rubberbanding is very healthy, and should be considered in player vs player interactions more. Its the wild wacky action bike of gaming concepts. "Hey kids, here,  touch this screen while pressing buttons,  just don't try and pinch to zoom,  oh,  and look back and forth between two screens. Need a second player?  Time for an entirely new control scheme!"

There's some people trying to blame the marketing,  but the truth is this thing just wasn't very marketable.  /r/games is actually full of people that think this game will make people violent.

Impressive.... I would really like a Dino Crisis reboot done by Naughty Dog. We haven't gotten a Dino Crisis game in 12 years, and the last one was shit (although I could argue that the second one was shit as well), and God Damn it Dino Crisis is one of my all-time favorite games.

The only issue would be getting Capcom to sell the franchise, and we all know how they are about that kind of stuff... I bought it when it came out for Wii. Paid 60 bucks and beat it.

About a year later I sold it online for about 200.

Glad to re-buy it for 10. I'm sure a lot of people are like me and want this game so badly after playing the first two battlefronts on play-station 2 that they would happily pay 100 dollars for the full version. It makes me feel like they're imitating Blue is the Warmest color...  This looks very interesting and something I can definitely see myself getting into.  I feel like that trailer showed me a little more than what I wanted to see and spoiled a few surprises though.  Oh well.  I hope there's more to it than what is in this video. Looking forward to this game as the people over at AlienTrap do good work - based off of my great experience with Capsized on the PC. You're free to not buy anything. The evolving levels worked great in BC2 but feel flat when they brought it to the main series. It was too contextual and didn't work on too many structures.  Yeah 'better' and 'worse' are sticky terms when comparing titles that are great for different reasons. Goldeneye was incredible when it was released, but Perfect Dark expanded upon it and outstripped it in every way. I know when I sit down to play a multiplayer shooter on the 64 with mates (not too often these days, admittedly) I pick Perfect Dark every time.

I actually played an emulator version with a decent mouse-enabled setting that was fun, after having used my PS3 controller with mixed results binding the look-axis to the left and right joystick and messing with the sensitivity. There wasn't a home system per se, but like you said, anything you downloaded was tied to the console it was downloaded on. Generally that was the user's own console. All of your stuff could be reauthorized to a new console once a year through the automated system as well.

I'm just wondering: If I brought an external of my digital 360 games and profile to a friend's house, would I be able to play them without ever having the 360 connected to Live as long as my account was signed in?

Obviously the solution here is to not try to game the system and keep your Xbox set as your home. But you'd think it'd be able to recognize your local profile as your Live one. Then again, that would just allow everyone to share via offline profiles and things would get really out of hand, I guess. The galactic map part would be somewhat difficult to design. Some quick issues I have:

1. How is it decided what action to take? Do you do a vote? That would take forever. OK so you decide to have someone as commander like in BF4 and they make the decisions. How do you keep them from trolling, do you have a vote kick function? That's a rather inelegant solution. You need a commander for the map part and I don't know of a problem free way to do that in a multiplayer game.

2. What if one side completely dominates several battles and now has all the gear unlocked while the other side only has a few items? Complaints about kill-streak bonuses from COD would pale in comparison to complaints over an overpowered team racking up all the bonuses. If you take away buying units and bonuses then isn't just a server with a map rotation but instead of just changing maps it goes to another screen and a fleet moves around? Why even have the mode?

3. Who has the time for it and how do you make it feel like a campaign? Most people only play a few rounds of an FPS game before moving to another server or quitting the game. I don't know about most people, but I rarely went through an entire Galactic Conquest campaign in one sitting and when I did I won all the battles. How much longer would it take if I was playing and could actually lose, prolonging the campaign? What's the point in playing this mode if you're usually going to be dropped into one already in progress and you probably won't finish it?

Galactic Conquest was an amazingly fun game mode, but I think it'd be difficult to take anything resembling what we all loved from the previous games and making it completely multiplayer. I could see it as singleplayer/splitscreen, as it was before, with a CO-OP option. This would allow you to save your progress, would be without worries of an online game being stacked to the point of ruining the experience and would dispel questions about how to get an effective multiplayer strategic commander, you and your friends, or the player that's hosting the CO-OP session, decide like how it's done in BF3 CO-OP. I guess the main thing I would shoot for is that the CO-OP allowed 16 or more players to play it together or against each other so you and your friends could have something close to a multiplayer experience, you wouldn't need a server rental and you could still save and resume allowing you to get a complete campaign. It would be separate from the normal multiplayer mode so the issues I raised wouldn't be a concern.

A CO-OP option is the best way I can see DICE doing it, I think taking GC from Battlefront and making it fully multiplayer would be a disaster of a game mode.
 What? This is exactly my thought. This is DICE after all, I see no reason why they wont deviate from their existing delivery models.

I think people overemphasize EA's involvement with large studios. Maybe we need to start thinking more about these games being made by their developers than by "greedy EA overlord." As mentioned in my other comments, DICE has been extremely consistent with their deliveries along with Bioware. Also, if it's a large persistent sandbox universe I don't want Johnny Rich-Parents blowing me up with his super duper ship because I'm just playing as a normal person. That's pretty ironic One of the EDF games is already on Steam. I am usually really put off by story driven games, but something about this one has me hyped.  Oh I know. I've been playing recently. I waited for a long time before touching the game again.  I'd say I agree with most of what you said there. I think eventually it becomes subjective but I don't think they offer this unique experience not found anywhere else, as many try to claim. They do offer great games though, I'm sure.  This submission has been automatically removed because it is one paragraph long or shorter. 

Your thread may need more detail or breaks our rules for being too specific (such as "which of these two games should I buy?") or too general (such as "what is the best PC game"). If your thread was asking for suggestions about what games to get, /r/gamingsuggestions, /r/ShouldIbuythisgame, or /r/askgames would be better places to ask.

If you think that your post was unjustly removed, please send us a [message](http://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2FGames)."


*[I am a bot](/r/AutoModerator/comments/q11pu/what_is_automoderator/), and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2FGames) if you have any questions or concerns.* The way they do it might seem reasonable in your mind, but I'm saying the market probably doesn't get particularly interested seeing a console's library carried by twenty year old franchises. With each new passing generation it becomes increasingly difficult to give a shit about Mario and Zelda, even if you say 'but they're well made and only come out every x years'. I personally have very little desire to see any more Alien or Terminator or Marvel films because they're incredibly rehashed and done to death and I've seen it all before. I want new original shit. Same applies to videogames, particularly nintendo. I'm playing Prime for the first time of my life and it is absolutely incredible. Metroids should be equally as demanded as Zeldas in my opinion. I've been playing these so much, the graphics feel modern again to me. If I saw a brand new WiiU true-to-form Metroid right now I'd shit myself. That one Fire Emblem stage, Castle Siege (I think that's what it's called), starts out as the smallest map in the game and yet that is one of the maps that can have more players. It launches directly from the wiiu menu. No need to switch to Wii mode. They'll name it "Wii3DS" and everyone in /r/games will die a little on the inside.  Yes it is. It absolutely is. Saying that an in-game option is comparable to the "option" to never play the game in the first place isn't an answer.

It's about choice. You can choose to kill innocent people in Fallout, but Fallout is not **about** killing innocent people. Hatred is **about** killing innocent people, and if you want to act like that isn't a valid observation, you're trying too hard to keep your head in the sand. Same here. Actually I haven't even bought The Hobbit yet, since I want to get it for WiiU, but the uncertainty about the dlc (specifically weher the WiiU will even get it, unlike all the other LEGO dlc so far) is keeping me from it. 
The lack of any mention about it in the announcement hopefully confirms that it will be dlc at least, and not a separate game. The most visceral experience in a game that I remember was world PvP in vanilla WoW. I'm sitting there regenning mana, and suddenly stun lock into an instinctive ice block (Shift-C). Now it's fuckin on. Winner gets to spit on the loser's corpse. Loser gets a long ass grave run and probably a camping for good measure. I can confirm, this is a shit port, im running a system with 8gb ram, 3gb 7970 and a phenom x4 965 3.4 ghz processor and im lucky if i get 25 fps 

I'll be uninstalling it shortly. what a waste of money, should have pirated the game first.  I think it more has to do with the way you kill civilians and the way they react along with the goals of the developer. 

Rockstar has never gone out of it's way to purposely make GTA look like a murder sim, where as it's pretty clear this teams goal is to make it play like a murder sim in the same vein of Postal. Marvel Super Heroes was so good that it ruined Batman 3 for me. It's probably one of the (and I say this with only a little humor) best super hero games of all time, and the open world was fantastic. So I was disappointed to see Batman take a step back into the smaller game world. I hope Avengers will build on Super Heroes. I bought a Wii U for Smash.

And haven't touched it all because I can't use my damn GC controller for Smash yet. Great paid dlc. Please don't go into game design. Even by looking on Steam I can tell that they did next to nothing with this game. I'd maybe understand it if HOMM 3 didn't work on modern OS, but all you have to do is mod in widesceen support and you'll get a better product than what you can buy here... Oh yeah, and HOMM 3 complete on GOG is 5 bucks less.

What a joke. Exactly, there is no argument to be levied against the game. Severe and violent mental illness isn't suddenly detonated by artistic mediums. Most of the people that are saying killing pixels should not be allowed need to have the mirror turned on themselves, because the massive majority of people can separate emotion from action, and an even larger majority can separate fiction from reality. If someone can't do either of those things, they are ill, not the medium.   Just because you didn't previously know of a character doesn't mean you can't play as them. I have never played Fire Emblem before but Ike is one of my favourite characters. Not many people knew who Captain Falcon or Ice climbers were until smash and people like them. If it were true, but Nintendo was profitable the last two quarters - I believe - with the new financial statements, and the N3DS certainly isn't going to lose them money. 

The Wii U is a flop commercially, granted, but it's surviving well enough now and big N is still putting out great games so it's not like they are going to lose their base.

In terms of market share, the XBone just passed them and holds a small lead thanks to some crazy price drops that - I'm speculating - they probably took a big hit for in order to up the install base. The thing is, Nintendo doesn't have to control the market share to be profitable. The attach rate for games like Sm4sh and Mario Kart are crazy, so even if they aren't selling as many consoles as they hoped, they'll keep making money on the awesome games. &gt;Incredibly teenage angsty lines

Pretty much sums up the dialogue and story that I've seen so far.

Honestly, the "story" probably would have been laughed at and forgotten about if it wasn't for the media making a huge deal out of it.

They took it so seriously and made so much noise about it that its popularity jumped a mile, for good or bad. Loving all the Japanese titles coming to PC lately. I think a big reason why Nintendo is struggling lately isn't just the number of sales they have,  its who they are selling to. That's nothing personal,  but from a business perspective,  being a secondary device for a gamer who plays on another console or on a PC isn't really what you aim for. It means competing ecosystems are going to be getting a lot of support from your own most loyal customers,  and when those fans try and generate word of mouth by saying things like "WiiU is great with PC" or "just buy it for Nintendo games," they are basically just telling the average potential consumer "don't buy this." Over two years to port to the Mac?  Is it the 90's again and nobody told me? Sure, though it seems the devs wanted that kind of outrage. As someone that never played any HoMM and has a friend very excited about this game, can someone explain to me what made it such a classic? It looks similar to a 4X game and I've played a ton of Civ and Civ-like games.

What makes this one unique and remembered so fondly? Call support... you'll get a refund &gt; That was never my implication, though I can see how a shallow appraisal of what I said might lead you to believe that it was.

Jesus, you are an ass. That is exactly what your comment came across as, and it has nothing to do with a "shallow appraisal". Haha, fuck me man, you could not sound more pretentious and condescending if you tried. Sweet Jesus Ermac! Just announce Noob and my life will be complete.

I just hope he has some of hIs MK9, costumes, because this isn't his finest look. Happy cake day! Can they please just give me my 2d good Metroid? Please Nintendo?

There are so many games of yours that I want that you're just not giving me. Yeah, remember how BF4 had issues up to a year after launch? Remember how everyone swore off of buying DICE/EA games when they first came out?

I can't wait to see how many people fall for it again in November just because they slapped "Star Wars" on the cover. Have you tried Google for those answers? If the number of tracks is increasing 50% of the base game for $12 v. one map for $5, then yes it is. I don't know what he's comparing MK to, though. [Citation needed] The issue is that your changing the argument made before you. They said you pay $12 for twice the game's content, while other games have you pay $5 PER map. You decided to selectively ignore how the comparison pointed that you are getting far more content from nintendos dlc at an ultimately cheaper price, which is a far cry from the expensive bullshit from numerous other games. i think they are going to relase it on the e-shop if they don't nintendo is simply the biggest morons ever. Whoa..Don't bring cars into this, cause that's basically what they do. A 2010 vs 2013 are almost the exact same. 2013 and 2014 are basically the same models too. Yet they call them new. I also don't think thats a good comparison either.   100 million users, non-existing tech support Kappa

But seriously, Steam's a monolithic application, if it doesn't work it's your fault (well, your computer's fault). If you have issues with payment, don't use PayPal, put your CC directly into Steam. Yeah, that dude is the one with the real disconnect here. Correlation does not imply causation. There are also [studies](https://games.yahoo.com/news/violent-video-games-actually-reduce-200102536.html) that show violent crime decreasing when games like GTA are launched.
Take that for what you will.

 I agree completely.  I dont doubt for a second that EA helps push for these additions, but ultimately the developers make the game.  DICE has shown us time and again how they do business It certainly doesn't help matters, though, especially when the Wii U just looks like a half-melted Wii to begin with. If you don't know that you're looking at a new console, then it's an understandable assumption that it's just some new model of the original Wii (or maybe you end up glossing over the differences entirely) plus some weird controller addon. It wasn't just a rocky start. BF4 came out in October 2013 and wasn't fully fixed until [September of last year](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CZI2nQR7QFk). I'm glad they finally did it but I don't want to wait 11 months to have a functional product. Inb4 "kids can't tell the difference"

1: They can

2: Don't buy violent games for your kids Of course they should be, but it's up to the individual reviewer on how much it impacts the score.  Ah that makes sense the name is pronounced more like Joe.  I'm Josh, and in smash I use the Joshi tag because of the similar spelling.      Lol I thought I might have a new smash rival.   &gt;Exclusive - One Console + PC, after a month on all consoles + PC.

FTFY
 Does this game have anything to do with the original [Strife](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Strife_%28video_game%29) from Rogue Entertainment?  A good way to do this would be to actually take an example from call off duty games. They had third person modes and the way that they did it was there were separate matchmaking servers for third person play Hopefully it will see a PS3 release (or at least PC), but since Sony has been pushing most new indies onto the PS4/Vita, it'll probably be unlikely. But I don't have a PS4 and that local multiplayer looks fuuuun. Right, context and intention go a long way. These developers know exactly what they're doing:

They see a rabid "Social Justice" climate.

They see an even more rabid "Anti-SJW" group that is just as obsessive.

They make a cash grab shock-value game. SJW's hate it - give it free press. Anti-SJW's just hate SJW's, so they argue on behalf of the developers - giving them more free press.

Developer has a zero-dollar marketing budget, but gets more press than games that might actually be interesting, as opposed to the same recycled bullshit with a thin coat of controversy to spice it up. Lol Ok people, if you haven't played the Prime series, BUY THIS BUNDLE NOW! Hell, if you missed one of them, buy the bundle. $10 is a steal for any of these game, let alone 3. 

I've been playing the original Prime a bit lately, and I must say that it has aged extremely well. Echos was my least favourite (mostly due to the ammo system), but it had some unique angles. Corruption was all kinds of fun, and managed to use motion controls in a way that functions well and feels very good. Oh yeah, definitely, they most love it. Their game got headlines on most major gaming sites. 

It's like how the media complaining about GTA killing hookers bumped up its popularity.

Free marketing. Noob and smoke will be in it. And yeah I miss when Ermac and the like we're just reskinned ninjas  Yes I saw it, awesome that they fixed the problem so fast!

Have fun playing good sir! And if it worries them, pixels from people. Perhaps a smaller percent can't separate fiction from truth, how psychopaths are extremely literal. Because it's **Stur Wurzz** so it will be totally different this time. Yeah. I know why the mechanic exists, but that doesn't stop it from being annoying.

The only cure seems to be frequently rotating party members in and out so you at least get to endlessly hear different voices.  This and I wouldn't mind a republic commando style story mode either. Wii cost $250 at release, compared to $400 and $600 of their competitors. Compared to the competition, that's a really cheap console. But 2 years after release the Wii U is still the same price. Im sorry but "killing people is bad" is hardly a message we need conveyed.  I mean clearly I would never actually do that, unless my intention was to remove any immersion and make a really lame game. I'm just giving a shitty example of something that doesn't restrict the camera. Obviously there are far better methods, but I have neither the time nor the interest to think of something right now. Sorry that it apparently offended people. &gt;a handful of other lessons they learned

I really doubt it. &gt; The Dark Mod is for the original PC Thief, which isn't what's being discussed here.

 Haven't most multiplatform games not used azure though? A new console is not what they need. I wouldn't buy from Nintendo again if they put out a new console after having just bought a Wii U.

They need to build on what they have right now.
 But that's the initial selling point of the series-- to play as your favorite Nintendo characters. It's half the reason I play, personally. 

Also, none of the (what I personally would call) generic-looking fantasy anime characters from Fire Emblem, Xenoblade and Kid Icarus.

Like before, I admit that this is entirely subjective. But I guess upon reflection it's not just that I've never heard of these character-- I also find them uninteresting. I'm amazed you know the reliability of these studies, without knowing the studies I am referring to.  It still sounds like it'll be a while before it ships.  Can I see them? Genuinely interested. I don't think you know what a strafe jump is. You lost my respect by mentioning "console war" in what I thought was gonna be a well-thought out argument I love that the CTE really help the games get fixed but what I don't like about CTE is that we all see the release of new DLCs, new weapons, vehicles etc before the release. Kinda like spoiling a surprise. Oh well, can't win them all. To me the "scummy" part is the "free of charge", which is implying that removing a couple stage hazards from an existing map and unlocking this modified map in another mode would be a thing they'd normally charge for. because they some analysts out there told them how cool it was if the name represented the main feature of the device.

i stands for Eye and I (me). 
Wii = We. U = You.

Like the xbox one: all you need in one console.

So smart That's a smidgeon deep-ish.

You never win, you just do a little better each time. Sub par? Relative to what? What is par? Smash is the only popular series like this, unless you want to count PSASBR, and that's a losing battle if I've ever seen one. I'm not entirely sure, but a while back on /r/gaming, comments and posts mentioning Elite Dangerous were automatically deleted. Someone messaged me about it and provided me with a lot of details and it was undeniable that the mods were doing something undeniably sketchy.

First thing you need to consider is that it used to be pretty common between ED and SC fans to have flame wars. I'm a backer of both myself but here's my guess: It's pretty common to see excessive fanaticism among SC fans, so I'm guessing this is the case with one of the mods, to the point where he will overly defend SC and get rid of posts regarding ''competition''. Well, english isn't my primary language so I tend to rephrase things a lot in order to understand them better. It's really the same definition as any dictionary will give you.
&gt;Morality  
principles concerning the distinction between right and wrong or good and bad behaviour

Basically, instead of thinking about what consequences some actions would have, we assign them to arbitrary categories like good or bad, right or wrong, good or evil and that way we determine which actions are preferable.  
But we do this even when there are no consequences. That's the reason there's always outcry when a game incorporates things which all people put into VERY VERY BAD category and makes them the central point of the experience. It makes people feel uncomfortable and they just want rid of it as fast as possible, so they come up with some unfounded reasons that "feel right", like "games are making people violent" or "games are making people sexist" when in reality it's the other way around.   I love indie games but I don't actually think any indie games have come close to the quality of art and gameplay that Super Mario 3D World or Mario Kart 8 provide. 

I also detest the idea that Nintendo needs to move on from platformers, only because I disagree that platformers don't have anything new to offer or that they aren't designed with "core gamers" in mind. Though I do agree that the Wii U's library could have added more unique features to its various net iteration.  nice good news for M$ and $ony I understand how you'd think that; not everyone can "get it" the first time around.

;) No ragrets. I already own trilogy and I think i'm going to pick up the digital version anyways. You do not know pain and rage until you've played Metro 2033 and accidentally stepped on a tiny bit of glass on the ground.  

Then, every motherfucker in the god damned oblast knows exactly where you are and is coming to fuck you up.   Anything that brings some variety. Look at the wide range of books and movies there are then compare that video games.  I hated the rubber-banding system implemented in Need for Speed Most Wanted (2005). 

If you drove the AI racers off the road or pushed them into some obstacle they could easily recover and catch up to you no matter how far away may have gotten.

Using the NoS boost became pointless because of this too. In the last lap of any circuit race the AI magically gained the ability to outrun me even if I was at top speed+boosting.

This was very frustrating when dealing with the top 5 blacklist racers. You had to compete with these guys flawlessly or just restart the damn race. Same for the cops... even a crown victoria could keep up with your fully tuned gallardo.

Rubber-banding can be a great mechanic if implemented correctly. It more or less worked fine until blacklist #7... after that it became a huge unfair advantage for the AI and a head ache for the player. What's with all the hate-jerking in this thread? IMO The Wiiu was the best console purchase I ever made, every game I've played on it is pure quality, that's what Nintendo does, pure quality and fun, I didn't realize that's a bad thing It would actually be pretty sick if it became a matter of survival. Food, supplies, ammo, while the military and police hunted you down after your initial killing spree. Purchase it from your PC in case you get a PS3 in the future! Sub par to something like Project M. A fan mod can make better stages than an actual game developer can. Doesn't matter, King of Braves Why are you never going to play Yakuza?? You might not be claiming that, but /u/Dipheroin did.

And people are going to have to get used to the fact that the new Battlefront is going to play a little differently from the old ones. You can't go through a 10 year gap and start from scratch with a completely different engine and completely different developer and expect the same experience. If anything, I'm expecting it to play a little differently from both Battlefront and Battlefield. DICE likes to make bigger changes to their formula every couple of games. This is what I'm saying. It's evident that in hardline, battlefield will be moving away from tanks, jets, and choppers (or a variety of them) to more of an infantry based game along with Levelution. I don't like Levelution. Nor do I like infantry being so central because I loved the vehicles introduced in bf3. But I'm afraid that battlefront won't include destruction like bc2. And that it will include more elements from cod. I love cod too but battlefield was a different experience and I wanted it to remain true to itself. I also hope that with battlefront they make the vehicles inclusive, up the destruction away from Levelution, and don't include anything that even resembles a kill stream. I apologize if I wasn't being clear.



















 I really hope the Devs don't take the YouTube seriously. Hatred is interesting because it highlights double standards in today's society and the subtle ideals controlling our opinions and censoring ideas that could be harmful in statistics.

Make a good guy kill a bunch of baddies and nobody bats an eye, but make a bad guy kill a bunch of "good guys" and everybody loses their minds.

On the game itself, I actually like the over-the-top "edgyness" of it. It seems like a game that will go for the maximum shock value with good gameplay while not taking itself *too seriously*. Some people might not like that, but I think it gives a nice contrast. 

Hopefully it will be good. Seems like something I'd grab in a sale at the very least. Link to them please. Admittedly haven't bought an Xbone this gen. With how bad Sony has been lately with maintenance and servers being down, I figured MS was doing better. Guess not. All three games are packaged together with a interface before launching any of them. Its actually pretty cool because they put in a rewards system where you can unlock special content (sound tracks, concept art, Fusion Suit playable in MP1, etc) as you play through the games. I would love to play LEGO May!  Because I never turn my PS3 on anymore and I'll be distracted by whatever new hotness comes out on the next gen consoles.

That said, it seems to have a lot (a lot!) of support on this board so maybe that'll push me over the edge.  Not a lot coming out in February anyway. i have played quite a bit of this game not threw it got burned out trying to do everything around halfway threw. my biggest issue is the that the combat system feels too slow and it reminds me too much of the tales of seris combat system just slower and i just get this feeling " i could be playing threw tales of vesperia again"

and then there is the menu issue this might seem like a small gripe but the menues takes forever to load it should be bang bang done. i am used to be able to input commands before the animation of the menu opening is done with this game i need to sit and wait while it loads that is simply too slow and breaks the flow of the game.

i wish the updated version of the game was for the WiiU rather than the new 3DS and all they did was make the game 1080p and no loading screen for the menues it would flow and feel so much better. Little showreel video of games released till 2014. It's nothing special but I just wanted to share it with you guys. :)  Honestly it looks incredibly boring. Like Postal 1 with better graphics but the same shallow gameplay riding the edge-train to the Steam checkout only to be played for less then an hour. Yawn. So despite months of change and development you are going to base the final product on what was essentially an alpha? This beta won't cost you anything at all why don't give it another shot and wait and see what the reviews are before actually saying no this is just a rescan of the game when we actually have no idea what the final product is going to be.  not really, it didn't do much in any of the thousand third person multiplayer shooters. &gt;have interesting and exciting fighting styles

&gt;don't want Sonic or Duck Hunt

This is super contradictory. Sonic and Duck Hunt have styles entirely different from anyone else in the roster. They are great additions even though I don't personally play as them often. &gt; they make products that people don't want

What? Nintendo first party titles are some of the best and most popular games out there. Plus they are at least trying to do something a little different from the rest of the industry. $60,000 in around 10 day's probably means they are gonna make it. They have been using PCs,  but they have been dealing with a hugely fragmented PC user base,  where everyone has different hardware. The amount of optimization that is possible and cost effective for millions of units of the exact same hardware is way many levels above what PC developers can typically do.  Which is pretty sad really. You can't even construe an argument clearly enough for people to understand it on their first interpretation, apparently. You should work on that dude.  Are all races that long or is it a rare championship race or something. A 4 hour race seems so absurd There were still a plethora of quality titles before smash Bros imo. Love that they are embracing AO. Love the wacky grimdark writing. I genuinely laughed out loud when he said they don't deserve a natural death, haha. I'm sorry, how can anyone take this seriously enough to write articles about how bad it is for society or morals or whatever? I answered this elsewhere. Their website has changed since this reveal. It was previously available to buy and play the 'closed' alpha.  rubberbanding is a very specific form of ai cheating that is interesting by itself. The only thing is that PoE is noticably less visually polished or interesting. And while it may have more depth to its systems than D3 or TL2 when it comes down to it you spend 90% of your time in these games in combat. D3s animations and graphic fidelity just make it more fun than the other two in my opinion. I don't think this is a particularly valuable or informative comment. It seems.laden Starfox needs to do to Starfox 64 what Punch out Wii did to Punch out NES. They really need to smooth the graphics and the richness of characters while making the ship feel "heavy" like 64. 

Zelda needs a rich overworld field. I don't mean a bunch of obstacles but there has to be something to see every "screen" like link to the past. It needs to avoid a "1-foot ocean" depth, if that makes sense. I really don't want to be falling in and out of little caves.

Xenoblade pretty much needs the same thing, and with monster hunting.

Splatoon needs to allow a freaking community. Like, with forums and crap. You need to be able to find and chat with friends. You need to be able to form parties outside of games and use voice chat with friends. It is a team game and Mario Kart-level communication does not cut it.

Kirby needs be like Super Star. There needs to be a great cave offensive and Meta Knight variant. You should have to choose powers, not be handed specific things and then be ushered through.

Yoshi needs to have levels like the last 4 worlds of Yoshi's Island for the Super Nintendo. The ones where shyguys with bats and catchers' mits are throwing eggs back at you.

I'm nervous about every one of these games. Mario Kart is a better Mario Kart wii and Smash is a better Smash wii, and that's great, but this year's games here really have to go back a few generations to wow their core audience.

Speaking of which, Paper Mario needs a comeback. They've tripped it up quite a bit with sticker star/ super paper mario. Just give us another Thousand Year door...

Honestly the Wii really turned most of these 1st party titles in the wrong direction.  For me it's 7756MB.  No ps3 love? Hmm, pushing that current gen I see. I really would love to play the MH4U demo right now, but I don't want to pay 4 on ebay for a demo code. NINTENDO, WHY YOU DO THIS? This submission has been automatically removed because it is a direct image link.

If this post is something like a funny screenshot, meme, comic, cosplay, arts-and-crafts, etc., please submit to /r/gaming or /r/GamerPorn instead. Submissions to /r/Games should be for the purpose of informing or initiating a discussion, not just with the goal of entertaining viewers.

If you believe that your submission belongs in /r/Games, it may be better to [submit as a self-post](http://www.reddit.com/r/Games/submit?selftext=true) and include some additional info about the image. Or if you're quite certain that a direct image link is the best way for this to be submitted, [message the moderators](http://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=%23Games&amp;subject=Please+reapprove) and ask us to approve the post (please include a link to it).


*[I am a bot](/r/AutoModerator/comments/q11pu/what_is_automoderator/), and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2FGames) if you have any questions or concerns.* Actually i ignored it because the games it has are boring as all fuck to me. Getting sick and fucking tired of this Lego shit.   Have they upgraded or upscaled the graphics by any chance. Seeing how *other* Big Thing got censored, I'd expect someone from Nintendo (literally and figuratively) sucking off Important People. http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Video_game_controversies#Theories_of_negative_effects_of_video_games

There are a lot of sources included in this article. From what I gather some research seems to suggest there is a link, some say there isn't. 
 There are races of all lengths. 2deep4me You mean you don't want the opportunity to purchase "Ben there, Dan that" and "Time gentlemen, please!" for the 700th time? It is a valid observation, but an ultimately meaningless one. The end result is the same.  Hate to burst your bubble but ignorance wasn't eliminated in the last decade and a half so this stuff still happens.

(I should hope there aren't kids *buying* these consoles that hadn't been born yet at that time. Where would a 13-year-old get that kind of money?) The motivation for violence in a lot of games is flimsy at best. The gameplay is what matters.  It gets kinda big later, though. But yeah this isn't a theory I spent a long time researching or anything, though. It would be a total failure if it wasn't better than Half Life, because it came out after Half Life. Half Life isn't legendary because it's the pinnacle of gaming, it's legendary because of how it changed the FPS formula. Is that really the answer, though? Nintendo could have made a console that's identical to the PS4 and games like GTA still wouldn't sell on it. Call of Duty? Assassin's Creed?

If Nintendo really wants 3rd party support they need a total makeover of the brand.

Honestly, I would rather see Nintendo go third-party, because although their hardware is wacky they still make great software. Or, honestly, merging their console and handheld business into one unit might not be a bad idea, either. It cost 400 swiss francs at release here, which at the time was well over $400. Wow, considering I was just bought this for Christmas, and it wasn't cheap to find a copy, wish I would have known. Rogue Legacy is perfect for the Vita.  I've played around 30 hours there.  It has the tightest controls of the three versions I've played. Yeah, that's always fun.

*CRASH* oh shit How was the gameplay "completely different?"  Battlefront was basically a professional quality mod of Battlefield 1942, I really don't  see many significant differences in the core gameplay. I have my own doubts about SCs model, but I think we can do better than that kind of parroted sarcasm. It does seem fair though. I mean stepping on a piece of glass does make a loud noise, but I guess it depends on the radius of the area that is alerted. [https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yEwOJfYn1TA](Here's sonic in action. He's universally hated in the smash scene.  Duck hunt is similar where he totally designed around camping but he's just worse at it. Their fighting styles are not exciting. I would argue they are actually boring. They are not great additions to the game in their current form. Yes. This was one of my favorite games growing up. I think the coolest part of the game for me was the alternate paths that the sub-missions had which carried over into later missions. 

For instance:

If you incapacitate (instead of kill) the guard working on the hovercraft in Area 51 who is holding the key card that gives you access to the lifts, he'll open a door for you in the next mission that allows you to get the Maian Phoenix pistol VERY early on in the game.

If you activate the escape doors in Area 51 while trying to escape instead of letting Johnathan Dark do it, it allows him to escape with Elvis instead. He says he owes you one for that. Later on, in the Carington Institute mission, he'll help you complete one of the objectives much quicker than if he hadn't been there.

You can enter Air force one from two separate entrance ways allowing for easier access to the president.

Be sure to lower the lift that holds the hovercraft while inside air force 1, because it drops the hovercraft in the snow level that comes right after it making the level much easier to navigate.

That's all I can recall for now.

Also: I loved the AI work they did for multiplayer with the commands and types. Hours and hours of fun. Ubisoft confirmed that there won't be a Blood Dragon 2 but they're developing something in the same style of it for Far Cry 4, so probably just something that's a parody of another time in film or another genre. http://www.soc.iastate.edu/sapp/VideoGames1.pdf
http://web.clark.edu/mjackson/anderson.and.dill.html

There's two, I don't think there is much use posting more.
 It could be the greatest shit anyone has ever seen and people will still decode that it is god awful 2 weeks before it comes out. HD resolution?  Scummy seems a little bit extreme...but maybe that's just me. It honestly seems retarded to me that "free of charge" is even a phrase that is relevant when it comes to minor updates like this. On that point I agree, but it also seems silly to me that Nintendo is getting flak, even if it is less than other developers would get, for making it free regardless of what phrasing was used in the announcement. Why would children chase down a rapist? [Here's sonic in action](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yEwOJfYn1TA) He's universally hated in the smash scene.  Duck hunt is similar where he totally designed around camping but he's just worse at it. Their fighting styles are not exciting. I would argue they are actually boring. They are not great additions to the game in their current form. I'm confused. Are you saying the round-loss bonus is a good implementation of rubber-banding or a bad one? PM sent I'd agree with most of what you've said, but the Wii U is the first console that I've bought since the N64 and I am enjoying it.

After the N64 I became a PC gamer primarily.  Most of the games that I wanted were either on PC or were ported to PC, and given that I already needed to own a PC for work, it cost the same to put a decent graphics card into it than buying a console.  So each console generation, I put $500 into my PC for upkeep.

The Wii U though scratches my Nintendo itch.  As you said, they've alienated the "core" and the "casual" group, but the people left arent just the Nintendo fans, they're also people like me.  I can play Call of Duty XYZ on my PC, or any number of Nearly Identical Shooters.  What I can't play on my PC is Mario Kart (although Sonic &amp; All-stars Racing Transformed comes close, even if I hate typing out that ungodly long title every time I mention it), and I can't play Super Mario 3D World, or Super Smash Brothers.  There are no games even remotely close.  I can't play Legend of Zelda, and I can't play Metroid Prime.  

Nothing on PC comes close to what those games offer, and that's very strongly in Nintendo's favor.  WHat game for PS4 or XBone has no PC analogue or port?  I personally can't name one, or at least one that I'm so interested in owning that I'd buy the console.

So in that respect at least, Nintendo remains a bastion of games to me.  I can get Call of Duty or Mass Effect or StarCraft, or at least something similar to those games, on my PC.  Nintendo is still the only one making unique, local-multiplayer games that have no equal on PC or other consoles.  You say "making Kart Racers, Platformers, and Brawlers isn't going to wow anyone", but it's precisely why I bought the Wii U.  You can't get that anywhere else!  "Just another party-fighter"?  What other party-fighter games exist that I'm unaware of? The fire looks *amazing*. I hope it's one of those rogue-lite games, where each time you die, you can buy perks, items and skills for your character (who looks totally like Nathan Explosion). I don't see much potential in plot, and indiscriminately massacring NPCs for no reason can get boring after a while. Well, unless there's like gorillion ways to finish them off, and they beg you for mercy all the while.

Also, why didn't devs let player destroy churches, mosques, synagogues, orphanages and schools? Don't half-ass mayhem! Baby link looks like he's wearing eyeliner.  Gay.

Bulbous dude prancing about winking.  Gay.

The whole thing seems really fucking gay.  And I have no problem with gay anything.  Just a little over the top. Thanks for that... very interesting to see that there are almost just as many studies that say there is a link as there are that say there isn't. Which game are you talking about by the way - San Andreas or 5? The cops in SA were just absurd... they would keep spawning in a 10 meter radius no matter how fast you drove. Unfortunately, with DICE Sweden developing it, I have **MAJOR** concerns about this game. That studio really fucked Battlefield 4 up and Frostbite 3 has some inexcusable flaws in it. BF4 didn't really become playable until the duties were handed over to DICE LA/Visceral. It's still doesn't offer ping-locked servers nor does it offer South American servers (lag from these players makes the game frustrating as fuck, but US servers are the nearest option for them, so it isn't their fault). It still suffers some crazy rubberbanding, freezing, and crashing of consoles.

I think you are correct, though. This game is going to be a success, regardless of the actual quality of the product. I just find that extremely disappointing that consumers are going to jump on this thing like hot cakes simply because it's a new Star Wars game and it'll be a shooter. Those are two huge markets converging. If this game ends up launching the way Battlefield 4 does, it simply won't matter, and that's a bad thing for gamers. &gt; Are Wii U games even account based yet?

Yeah. They have been since the Wii U came out.

Problem is, once you make an account you can't use it on any other Wii U's unless you either do a system transfer or talk to customer service. So you're not SOL, but it's still a shitty system. How is that deep? Its how tons of rogue-likes/lites have worked for a long time. Its how pretty much every early game like pacman or tetris worked. Right, okay thank you. Well guess I'll stick with my disc copy of the game for Wii then. Was really looking forward to playing it on the tablet.  Is that a knockoff or just a used wiimote? Record multiple takes and design move specific sfx combinations. 

FFXI and FFXII did this very well. Some bean counters counted certain beans and found that games that have a demo sell less than games that do. So they only let people who are desperate to play the demo (who are really likely to buy the game) to play it. People who are on the fence don't get a demo and have to make a decision based on curiosity instead of a informed judgement call.

It is only in place to help the publisher and forces people to buy a game that they normally wouldn't buy if they knew how it played. The big problem moving into mobile space is hear, but there are many other issues, price, storage, ram speed(this is a big one, the ps2 had very fast memory, the ps3, Wii u, and modern mobile devices are significantly slower in this regard) 

Another big problem is the mobile market is moving much faster than it used to when Nintendo made it big in handheld, look at the Vita, barely 3 years old but it's far far weaker than the phone I'm typing this out on, in nearly every way, It absolutely is the answer. If I could buy AAA games on the Nintendo and still have their 1st party titles, why would I own an Xbox? The Wii U is ancient technology. I love Nintendo but I think their hardware is really a slap in the face to gamers. BlazBlue CSE had a similar issue with its Steam release, where having incompatible characters in your name when connecting to matchmaking would make the game crash. Fortunately, it was fixed.

Hope the same happens here. Rampages. You kill groups of people that society loves to hate (rednecks, hipsters) because the slighted you in some minor to moderate way.  I mean it's not that hard to surmise from the title, since that's how the original 8 player stages were anyways. I don't think it's that misleading. Ahhh hell yes, this makes the game SO much better! Wow, I did not expect that! Thank you very much! You people have a really strange definition of what free means...

This by all means is called a perk of a subscription... it's by no means free. Free is when someone randomly comes to you and says "would you like transistor? there you go" not " buy this subscription and we will give you transistor for free". That's just part of the package... stop speaking lies...  I'm looking forward to the feature where you put in your credit card number to launch a volley of nukes at your enemies. Hatred is a very silly game to me.  The Resident Evil remake that just came out is actually just a touched-up port of a Gamecube remake. It was really ground-breaking back then in the jump in graphics. I'm not sure if anything else has ever made that big of a leap in graphic quality and gameplay improvement while still feeling like the old game. Yeah, i feel the same. Although at a glance some of the studies that suggest a link seem a little older. But again, I haven't looked properly. 

I imagine we see a lot of proof that shows no link because we all want video games to be a flawless experience. There is also a lot of money in the gaming industry, so there would be incentive to publicise those studies, too. I haven't played PD (besides the first level in an emulator that was supposed to be packaged to play it perfectly, but didn't quite do it), but from what I can gather of the article the main point raised is the enemy responses to the player and how they talk.

My first thought that this is not unique went to Metal Gear Solid, that has a whole load of options for screwing around with the soldiers, getting them to surrender at gun point, intimidating them by firing your gun by their head, wounding them, firing an empty gun makes them try and jump you, and that no one is brave when a rocket launcher is aimed at them. You can also play through anywhere on the spectrum from lethally to being a ghost.

Then I'm thinking of the monolith games FEAR and NOLF (with varied ways to get through the game), which are notorious for [chatty enemies](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MtB7r28xClo#t=18), also the Thief series. Some of the dlcs in BF3 are pretty shit. CC and what it called? Aftermath? Yeah, that was basically a rip off. And nobody really played it. Same seems true for some of the BF4 dlcs, but I don't have those (lesson learned!) except for China Rising, which is mediocre at best. The Wii caught lightning in a bottle with its marketing.  Really, the demographic of people that bought the Wii en masse are the kind of people that played it a few times with their kids and forgot about it. They aren't hardcore gamers. It was just a trendy thing to own.  I certainly hope so.  Metroid 2's ambient music really helped set the tone for the game. In a way, Dark Souls reminds me a lot of it.

Dark Souls only has music for battles and for a select few "safe" areas (just like Metroid 2 only has melodic music in the main cave section, for when you return to familiar ground after going into one of the lairs).

Everything else is ambient sounds: footsteps, waterfalls, enemies. Especially the way the acoustics changes when you enter bigger of smaller rooms works really well. I think if Metroid 2 was made today and wasn't limited by the GB's power they would've gone this route too, with no music in the lairs and having the "ambient music" be fully dynamic based on what's around you. And i instantly thought about Gone Home. Girls plus 90s hipster vibe... I'm probably not going to play this. Yeah, damn confirmation bias. The problem with CS:GO is that the only content you can make for it is weapon skins. Given how easy it is to map textures you didn't make, a good majority of the re-textured weapons are just patterns stolen off Google Images and mapped onto the weapon body. Call one BF-A and the other BF-1.

Or just type it out because there are two games with the same acronym. If it's too difficult then save it to clipboard and paste it. Any point to buying this if you already own the trilogy? Are there any other changes? You can tell differences in graphics whether there are there are compression artifacts or not. Eh. Most of the levolution didn't change much about how a map was played/had no real impact on the gameplay. So you had some nice graphical effects which get old real fast. I think games are tied to your account now - at least I've seen people suggest buying E-Shop games on the website if one didn't have access to the Wii U at the time.

I agree that it is underpowered compared to its competitors, but to be fair the Wii U was released a year earlier than the other two. Also I don't think Nintendo ever intended to put top-of-the-line hardware into the consoles (which the PS4 and Xbox One honestly don't do either). Oh yes it has, Google it. :)  I think it's possible to have a more optimistic view, despite the game's apparent and disturbing sociopathic bent.
Like all games, this one is ultimately nothing more than a fantasy.  It is an opportunity to imagine oneself in the shoes of a character unlike you, and to explore a different view of the world without becoming committed to it.  The game is for adults, and adults tend to have all their important moral ideas sturdily in place, enough so that a game, film or book is unlikely to overturn them very easily.
A game like Hatred might lead you to examine your morals more closely, to question them and come to understand them better.  Playing the part of a homicidal maniac might enrich and broaden your sense of who you are, or could be, or might have been.  It could lead you to a deeper understanding of what you want to be and what you don't want to be.
This may all seem rather lofty for a violent videogame, but literature and art tend to have these kinds of effects, and in fact, may be their very purpose. The problem is that while all three consoles will be pushing their respective hardware, the Wii U has pretty seriously inferior hardware. There'll comes a point where the Wii U has reached it's limit with the graphical upgrade and the Xbox and PS4 will continue to grow faster. You may not see a huge tech difference right now, but in the next few years I'm pretty sure it'll become apparent. I guess you're not really feeling it And by that they mean right out the door before it's ready.  This looks so generic. I can't take this game seriously. It's tongue in cheek right? Please tell me it is? Oh I see... Rubberbanding would have a benefit in races that long, If you dominated the opponent in the first 10 minutes then there's no challenge for the rest of the 3 hours and 50 minutes... but I guess there should be a constraint on how much of a boost does the AI get so that it isn't unfair to you.

Does the AI slow down for you if you fall behind. And the last 2 map packs have some of the best maps in Battlefield history. 

Propaganda is straight up THE best map in BF history. If you don't know who Tingle is, I can totally understand how you'd be weirded out by him. He's basically just a joke character. A 40 year old man who wants to be a hero with a fairy like Link is any idea you might can come up with, they had years ago.  &gt; From what I heard if you bought a downloadable game and your console dies, you're shit outta luck.

Not quite.  Nintendo CS will transfer the files to your account, but it's certainly not as simple as re-downloading from your account ID.  There's some speculation, particularly with the restructuring of the rewards program, that it should be completely account based soon.  Although it honestly wouldn't surprise me if we didn't see that until the following generation. Hopefully means we see it soon. I've been really looking forward to this one. Maximum Brtal  GTA V.  It's a knockoff, I'd say the wiimotes are generally good quality but the nunchuks started to rattle and spaz out pretty fast for the ones I bought. When I bought a first party nunchuk it was much better Waste of money on their part  You have it wrong. Capturing command posts reduced reinforcements from the enemy team as long as you had one more post than them. 

There were two ways to win a default map. Capture and hold all command posts for a set amount of time, or reduce the enemy reinforcement count to zero. Oh I agree, DICE are in my "show me first" book and will be for a long time, but they've got the big name titles and marketing grunt behind them so they will do well regardless. People love Battlefield/Mirror's Edge/Battlefront, and will either not care about previous games quality, or find a way to make an exception for their favorite game series. A good one! I never have to feel like I'm in a hopeless if I drop into a pub match with stacked teams. Even if my team is constantly getting smoked, the game keeps feeding me enough money to buy whatever I want as long as I just get a kill or two before I get overwhelmed and they win the round. It keeps the situation competitive despite my team losing constantly. &gt;I can't fathom how people can jump on a morally high horse and ask to censor a videogame.

True. It's just because it's something they don't agree with/aren't comfortable with. In this case, throwing reason through the window and letting zeal take over.

One thing would be if it were a video game where the objective is to kill Jews as a Nazi officer. It would be more than acceptable and justifiable to censor or outright ban the title, because it has the capacity to offend certain individuals (let's say, for example, someone who had a parent who lived through the Holocaust).

Hatred? Killing civilians? Well, I'm a civilian too, yet I don't feel offended by this because I can't identify myself with a generic stack of pixels that have no belief or any ideologies behind them. Disatastful? Mmmaybe, but I still don't get why everyone went total nuts about this game. I'm pretty sure it's not about mental disorders, it's about feelings.  
A game about killing innocent people makes somebody feel uncomfortable? It must be evil, make people violent, turn kids into murderers and did you know that killing innocent people is bad? I bet you didn't know that killing innocent people is bad, *you psychopath*.   This is awesome. If this is indicative of the support the game is going to be getting, this really is going to be the smash bros. to end all smash bros.

It would be so cool to see a "Heroes of Hyrule" DLC:

* Wolf Link + Midna playable character
* Goron / Zora / Deku Scrub assist trophies
* Impa Playable Character
* Zelda Skyward Sword skin
* Low Poly Ocarina of Time Skin for Link
* Low Poly Young Link Skin for Toon Link
* New Stage Based on original Legend of Zelda, or Adventure of Link If it's based on the Marvel movies, then that probably encompasses locales and storylines derived from the movies.

But for the freeplay mode, they can add anything they want as long as it doesn't infringe on any film properties that are currently owned outside of Marvel Studios. So you can have Fantastic Four, or X-Men, but they just can't reference anything by look or storyline to anything out of those films. So Wolverine shows up, but he can't look anything explicitly like the Fox's X-Men Wolverine.

now, whether they *choose* to add more Marvel stuff outside of the film stuff, your guess is as good as mine. Same, i was super skeptical but im actually starting to dig this game Otakumode has a promotion for new members that gives them $5 off of their order, and if you sign up under someone, you get another $5 off, making everything on the site $10 off. This makes Xenoblade Chrocles = $29.99.

Here is the link to get $10 off (my referral):
https://otakumode.com/invite/ea444a

Direct link to Xenoblade: https://otakumode.com/shop/54c1e4edc2b7b16d69c3c0b8
This is the lowest price you can purchase Xenoblade currently. This is like kids arguing whose dad makes the most money. I think he is saying its a good implementation that wasn't available in the previous Counter-Strike titles. I sort of feel like this game has no idea what it wants to be. I would have loved to see this game actually mix it up, and deal exclusively with small arms, but there's helicopters with miniguns and RIBs with .50 cals. I don't even know whats going on most of the time. Did they just take an RPG out of a trunk of a CTS or something?

I think it'll sell OK, but I think in the long run, these ideas are bad for the franchise, especially with the new Battlefront on the way along with a new BF I'm sure. The industry could use another Bad Company, thats for sure. AUD$13 in Australia. Not terrible. Huh? I have to agree. I mean its a twinstick shooter as far as I can tell, and I can't think of anyone I know who really enjoys playing those. They might play it once or twice, but twinsticks get old so fast.

This sub is just lapping up the edgyness of this game. Buy a PS3. I don't know why people keep making posts like this. If you want to play PS3 games, buy a PS3 instead of whining about it here like Sony can magically make them work on PS4. Yeah, you see, I'm conflicted.  Blood Dragon came out of no where and is pure gold - I'm worried that they'll milk it too hard and we'll end up with crap. I'm a little confused why you are worried about these (other than Splatoon, that point is very valid).

We don't know anything significant about Starfox, other than that it exists, so there isn't much reason to despair yet.

Zelda, as far as has been revealed so far, is going to be built around the overworld, much like the very first one, where you have to explore and make discoveries to make progress. There is a gameplay video with a couple of developers out there that expresses this. 

Xenoblade seems to be going a different direction, with a player-made avatar and a Earth-based universe. Kinda sucks, since I was a fan of the setting and characters in Xenoblade, but at least the combat and exploration will be there. Probably much better too, with the superior hardware allowing for larger maps.

Those are at least the ones that i'm really pumped for. I really haven't been following Kirby or Yoshi games, so I can't speak for those.  This is one of the best purchases a person interested in video games can make. Metroid Prime is still a game I'd consider to be very nearly perfect, and the inclusion of its awesome sequels and spot-on controls update make this package utterly fantastic. tbh I'd rather they focus on other area's in the game than whether my boots are tucked in or whether I'm wearing jewelry. I'm somewhat worried their engine might turn into an ARMA2 like behemoth that gets overloaded with all the skeletal information of all the NPC's. This was the exact game that came to mind for me! I think it's an outdated method to avoid better AI mechanics. Does anyone know if the load times are reduced on the digital version? I have a physical copy, but that price is worth it if it performs better. &gt; By that logic, you shouldn't have made a comment saying to try it, hmm?

Uhh, what? lol I don't know guys, if I wanted to buy a device with mainly side-scrollers, I'd have bought a Gameboy. I know too many people who have never even heard of it. I mention that a certain game is coming out and they respond with "What's a Wii U?" I instantly though of Loaded when I saw the gameplay.  Remember this game?  It was so much fun to play with a friend.

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ls-8VvEPQAk That was both terrible and amazing. And yet here you are being a part of it ;-)

This stuff is really interesting to some people,  and it does have an impact on our shared hobby. If its not for you, feel free to move on.  Another 3rd party problem they are having is their  console release cycle. PArt of it is I think Nintendo (perhaps rightfully) does not think they can go head to head with the other two major consoles and carve out enough territory by releasing at the same time. On the other hand because they dont and thus offer a much weaker console in terms of power they become even harder to dev for because of their much lower system specs. You time travelers always give yourselves away.  Just read more on the site.  Almost all of your questions are addressed. 

It's not a pay 2 win game.  Every ship can be purchased in game.  Ships are only available for pre purchase.  Ships can be lost for good if they are not insured.  

Players will die.  And they will lose their main player, too.  Your legacy will be inherited by an heir to your family.  The concept is... a blast and awesome.  This game isn't Lego Marvel though. It's Lego Avengers and they've announced it'll follow the plot of Avengers and Avengers: Age of Ultron which makes it seem it'll be very MCU focused, probably even MCU only.  bullshit, heard of virtual boy? Could have something to do with their insistence on repackaging super cheap old hardware and selling it for as much as modern consoles. You realize those are not made by Nintendo right? They have already released modules and even talked about more modules they are releasing.  Just as a heads up.  Wait, then what's the point of a silencer if it doesn't do anything? Cosmetics?
 Lots of NFS games, first thing that came to mind! Please understand that aggression and violence are not the same thing. The cops instantly know your location the moment they are dispatched yes... but as far as my experience goes they can I don't think they can spot you through any kind of obstacle. You could even hide in dense bushes and the cops are clueless. I think what happened to you was a unlucky glitch or something.   This could have been GOTY if him opening his front door in the initial trailer revealed a bright, colorful cartoon world full of annoyingly merry unicorns, snowmen and leprechauns. Satire would have been a lot better than intentionally being "edgy" and "inappropriate" just to garner media attention. Looks alright. We'll see if there's any replay value in it though, right now it looks like it'll be fun for a few hours tops. Rubber banding makes it useless to try for the first 95%. 

You catch up trivially quickly and they will smash through fences at 240 mph to keep up with you. &gt;"Yep, they're making Battlefield with a Star Wars skin"

Isn't that basically what Star Wars was to begin with? Battlefield 1942, but set in the Star Wars universe? Because that's exactly how I remember it. I don't think giving it a first person perspective really makes it anymore like Battlefield considering Battlefront has always had the option for it (and it was the default on the PC version, if I remember correctly). As irresponsible as it is to feel this way, I am so fucking excited for this. Me, just not my type of game. You wrote this while you were at work, you procrastinating bastard.  &gt; stave off of it out of principle...

What a pathetic thing to say. It was $400 when it first released in the US. I would rather have zero rubber banding either way. If I race extremely well I should win by a state or two. On the other hand I would be really interested to see some figures on games in dollars sold for each system. I ended up with all three systems. I have a couple dozen games for each system except for my wii. I owned 3 games for it, and one came with the system. 

 OH MY GOD OH MY GOD OH MY GOD  I'm saying they can optimize it, but its not going to be anywhere near the levels that xb360 and ps3 got optimized According to to Nintendo fans, but those games haven't been able to drive consoles since the SNES days. I've been saying for a long time that the problem isn't the name, it's that other than Nintendo fans people don't care that much about Nintendo.  &gt;You catch up trivially quickly and they will smash through fences at 240 mph to keep up with you.

Oh god that is hilarious xD I'm guessing you didn't enjoy the game much. So what? They would choose ano th er scapegoat.  Not technically emulation btw. It runs via the Wii U's Wii mode, which is a hardware compatibility mode.

The only new thing with these downloads is that they figured out how to package a disc image as a download and let it boot directly into the disc image from the Wii U menu. The Wii U was a real failure at marketing. Looking back at how clever the advertising strategy for the Wii was, and the "Wii would like to play" adverts and comparing it to how the Wii U was explained to the public it really makes you wonder what was going on. 

 I can see it. Nintendo, despite having a rabid nostalgia-crazed army of fanboys, is seriously behind on some things. The fact that the Wii-U is, yet again, a hardware generation behind seriously cripples its potential. 

Basically, unless you're extremely interested in Nintendo's first party offerings, there is absolutely no reason to own a Wii U. The few third-party exclusives aren't enough. Monster Hunter is now a portable only game (No MH4 for Wii U), and Bayonetta 2, despite having great reviews, is selling like shit, and will only further discourage any other developers for making an exclusive. For third-parties, there's absolutely no draw to releasing an exclusive Wii U game because of the low install base.

Then there are the multi-platform games. Many people like to dismiss these and claim they're not important, but that couldn't be further from the truth. These are the games you play when waiting for the big exclusives, and when there isn't a large enough install base to justify spending the extra time to develop a port of a game for last-generation hardware, then it shouldn't be surprising that the Wii U gets passed up altogether when it comes to the multiplats.

I would love to see Nintendo return to form, I really would, but three things need to happen:

1) Stop fucking around with whack-ass control gimmicks. The big touch screen is nifty, but hardly necessary. IMO, Sony does the whole off-screen shit better, albeit it requires a Vita. If you have a PS4 and Vita, not only do some games support using the vita as a display for miscellaneous shit, but you can use your Vita to **play your goddamn PS4 either via wireless connection to the system from anywhere via wifi** instead of only within like a 5 foot radius of the actual console itself.

2) Stop treating online connectivity like it is some arcane niche function. It's 2015, yet to add a friend on my WiiU, I need to get some long numerical code and whatnot like I'm using ICQ. Also, an account system for online purchases needs to happen ASAP, because having digital purchases tied to the console they were purchased on is not a good thing.

3) Get on par with the competition as far as your hardware is concerned. This is the most important thing. This will make your console a lot more attractive for third-parties to develop for. If you can offer great exclusives as well as the multiplats, you're in a much better spot.

If Nintendo cannot do any of these, then I hope they have the decency to show Sega how to properly transition into being a great third-party developer. Cheesy teen movie vibe with a crazy superpower twist and primarily an interactive video game! Remember Me had the best memory sequences, looks like they decided to tell a story using those mechanics. I really hope the story doesn't fall too flat because we know the Gameplay will be pretty cool..  Yeah, but you aren't buying them in lawn &amp; garden. You were buying them next to the Wii like with the Wii U. That brought similar memories of the game to me as well, thanks for posting that. I can't believe how unaware the media has been. You just destined this game to sell well. That's true, but aggression can lead to violence.  A lot of these questions won't be answered until people start suing each other. I'm confused. Are you talking about the unstable updates going into this stable update? The latest unstable update is literally just the stable update in a different update branch. This is the first time I've ever actually seen a game with an AO rating.  I've never been wanted, and *not* had the cops home in on my exact location, regardless of where I'm at. But the problem was I killed a lone hooker in the middle of an empty desert, and they still found me within 15 seconds. Also, animals are technically considered human NPC's in the game, so if an animal witness' you kill somebody, that animal actually alerts police just like a human NPC would. I've gotten wanted for hunting birds. I think its more of factor than people realize. Part of the problem the Wii started having towards its end of life as the high quality third party devs fled was that you basically had to sink so much extra dev time and costs to be able to get your game to run on the Wii compared to the other systems, partly because of the poor OS and partly because of the weaker hardware.

My understanding is that the Wii U exasperated this problem and combined with its lack luster sales made it completely non-feasible t dev for it if doing a multi platform launch. Sony and Microsoft both have strong 3rd party support to fall back on; that's what most people buy consoles for anyway. A good set of exclusives is obviously a good bonus but it's not crucial to their success as the PS4's spectacular success has proven. 

Nintendo doesn't have that- the simple fact that COD and co are is never coming to the WiiU puts them at a big disadvantage from the get go.  I don't have the money for a PS3 right now. I never said anything about being mad at Sega for not porting to PS4, just mad in general that I'll probably not get a chance to play. &gt;They're not "new" stages,

Who are you responding to?  I don't see the quoted word "new" anywhere. That deadline though. I hope EA doesn't make Ubisoft's mistake and has actually given DICE enough time to polish this game into the masterpiece it deserves to be. Infamous second son and sunset overdrive are great games. I'm fine with rubberbanding as long as it is balanced to be fair. If I'm dominating the race the AI should just be given enough boost to be within my radar. Really makes you wonder where they go from here. Do they continue creating consoles, or just focus on the handheld sector now.

A DS as powerful as some of the new tablets on the market could kick some serious ass! Especially if they poured some RnD money into making a battery capable of lasting 10 hours of game time on a single charge. Well I did the thinking so you should do the rest. The lack of Commandos saddens me. &gt;  These developers know exactly what they're doing:

Ya, they have even stated multiple times this was the goal, to create controversy to basically advertise the game. And some people are going to reward them for that thinking they are making some stance against SJW when all they are really doing is lining the devs pockets by falling for their trick. I can't get over how the Hatred logo rips off the new Doom logo.  I wasn't critiquing Life is Strange.  I was taking a shot at Telltale's past-its-prime game engine. Expect to not see Star Citizen in complete form before at least late 2016, or early 2017.  Chris Roberts has made some brilliant games, but those games are often heavily delayed.  Chris Roberts last game Freelancer for example was originally promised for Q3 2000, but was constantly delayed and didn't see a release until March 2003.  It was a great game, but during the wait I remember it being joked about in print media as almost being equivalent to Duke Nuklem Forever as being almost vapourware.

Considering the sheer impressive scale of what's being promised,  I expect a similar thing to happen in that it will take a lot of time to pull everything together into a polished working game. Nintendo you make me so happy. You give me tingly sensations in my nono area. Presuming you've played it, how does it play on the standard xl? Thanks!  The Wii U is an amazing system with an amazing catalog too which is the real kicker Prepare your VPNs I fully expect to not see Star Citizen in complete form before at least late 2016, or early 2017.  Chris Roberts has made some brilliant games, but those games are often heavily delayed.  Chris Roberts last game Freelancer for example was originally promised for Q3 2000, but was constantly delayed and didn't see a release until March 2003.  It was a great game, but during the wait I remember it being joked about in print media as almost being equivalent to Duke Nuklem Forever as being almost vapourware.

Considering the sheer impressive scale of what's being promised,  I expect a similar thing to happen in that it will take a lot of time to pull everything together into a polished working game. They're only what a decade behind everyone else in account management technology? Man I loved that demo. I was a kid and never got the game, but man o man did I run that shareware/demo level into the ground. I would kill the guards, manipulate the AI, anything and everything inside that level. I guess I'm not waiting for the Wii U version of Nihilumbra, then. Nintendo's site still lists it as coming out Winter 2014. Oh well. I thought you were going to make a Spec Ops the Line joke. I am disappoint.  DD's framerate was always awful, it just went from awful to worse in certain areas or with a lot happening on screen.

The gameplay was just good enough to make up for that. I always had to adjust when going from playing anything on my PC to playing DD on my PS3. It's very jarring, but I can get used to it because I get to climb up on monsters and hack parts of them off.

I would love to see dark arisen (or online) get a PC release so I could play it, hopefully, with a framerate and resolution on par with the gameplay... :( The radius is "every god damned enemy on the map."

The real issues were that once you were discovered it was basically impossible to go hide--enemeies ALWAYS know where you are, once you've been spotted.  So even if you duck behind a wall, crawl through a drain and pop out on the other side of the room / complex, all the guards were there waiting for you. 

 I think my ranger hardcore stealth run of Metro 2033 was my greatest gaming accomplishment--and I've beaten The Lion King AND Aladdin on SEGA.   Lol /r/games how on earth can you downvote this guy to -10. Sorry about that. I think at that point, the difficulty should kick up to make it challenging. I'm sure that implementing that will be harder than I'm making it sound, though. &gt; with Competitive PvP  

As opposed to cooperative PvP? Most hust use "I don't own this video!"

Much less legal speak Hand a person a controller and GTA. Th ey will kill civilians. Hell, the name GTA implies you are committing federal crimes. Games for 'powerful' handhelds would be to expensive to make for the price Nintendo handheld games get sold for, also the price of the console makes a big part in its marketshare (you can get a 3DS for 100$ if you want). It wouldnt work, atleast not in the near future. Well it would make sense in a game that is aiming for realism like the Gran Turismo and Forza series. I'm not sure whether The Crew is an arcade-racer or racing sim. I totally get what you mean. I'll admit that I don't really play Shulk or Robin very much because I never heard of them before Smash. I'm just saying, I think you should give them a chance. Personally, I didn't think I would like Ike, Bowser Junior, and Rosalina &amp; Luma, partly because their character didn't really interest me but I tried them and liked their playstyle. In the end it actually made me like their character more.

On a side note, my favourite character is Link so I play him the most. I also like Olimar but I'm not very good with him. The graphics of Metroid Prime back in the Gamecube days absolutely blew my mind.  Nothing from that generation even came close to the visual fidelity of that game.

And it still looks damn good today. That would be fair if Nintendo would also send a commission check for all sales of Nintendo products generated as a result of the YouTubers exposing their viewers to Nintendo products.

I'd like to see all YouTubers/Streamers boycott Nintendo for this, but that won't happen because the games are too good.  I would give it another go, they delayed it for the very reason you mentioned. What does this mean for the game's release? Is there a release date for the game yet? Got it.  Years later and Metroid Prime is still my favorite game of all time.  Actually despite its rather large faults I really enjoyed it.

It's just frustrating that a potential 10/10 was mismanaged into a 8/10 that is so glaring with bugs and technical issues and misrepresenting that it is a 5/10. There was a shitty chinese ripoff MMO that was probably p2w (not talking about the actual monster hunter online one, talking about a ripoff). I think it was called Hunter Blade? It got shut down.

It was terrible, but it was still basically monster hunter, so I played the hell out of it for a few days.

Can't wait for MH4 in a few weeks. :D Man I kind of wish I hadn't traded in my PS3. I would love to check out Yakuza 4. The only time I recall having trouble is when I wasn't going for objectives like nodes and whatnot.  I don't have high hopes for this game but I'm curious what they've managed to change in those few months, the last beta was pretty dull. 

It's rather annoying the are calling it "the most innovative Battlefield" when it seems like a very limited one. It's kinda stuck in the middle, you have attack choppers and all kinds of launchers, which is already silly for a cops vs. robbers game, but no tanks and other heavy armor because it would be even sillier. Conquest mode will certainly suffer from that.

On the other hand, campaign might be pretty cool and actually worth playing unlike BF3 and 4. If it doesn't have Instant Action, I won't buy it. They won't make a console that's similar to the PS5/Xbox. They have stated that their priority is to have a unified platform with the 3DS so that probably means an ARM based console. This won't be very good for cross-platform gaming. Holy crap, those physics, that fire. You can complain about the content, but they've definitely put some effort into the visuals. Grav looks better! I think the other guy nailed it and you are probably a tiny minority. The call of duty crowd has decided that Nintendo is for babies and won't even consider it regardless of specs. This crowd also buys their xboxes and PlayStation's regardless of specs. If it was about power , they would all just play on PC, but that's not it. So what would Nintendo end up with if they went head to head with them? Their same core fans would probably buy it, dude bros would ignore it, strictly casual gamers would keep using their phones, and Nintendo would sell even fewer consoles due to having a higher price. And again third parties would ignore it because their demographic isn't there. I just don't see how that could work out for them at all. The fan mod is catering to a vastly different community than the game developer is. And I'm gonna guess you're not the party the dev is catering to. &gt;I agree that 6.8 is not a score any developer aims for, but I also think it doesn't indicate that the game is not fully playable.

It actually indicates "You probably don't want to play this game," which is really worse. Indicating it had a bug that's patchable is far nicer than just giving it a terrible score. "Let people decide for themselves."

If advising people against playing a game is bad because you should let them decide for themselves, so is advising them to play it. I have undercover and marvel. Both are fantastic. I've only played some of marvel but what I have played it's a lot more linear and confined. Huge, fun to play roster though. I see undercover more like gta and  marvel more like god of war. No. Ok, Germans. What the fuck ever. Plus the Stalingrad expansion added Russians anyway. SO SORRY for the mistake. In the first Lego Star Wars game, it was such a pain. One crash meant restarting the whole race, and if there were 2 players you were twice as likely to crash.

I know they made some improvements when they released the Complete Sage. &gt;I've never been wanted, and not had the cops home in on my exact location, regardless of where I'm at.

If the cops were notified by a legitimate witness then I'm totally okay with this mechanic.

&gt;But the problem was I killed a lone hooker in the middle of an empty desert, and they still found me within 15 seconds.

Hahahaha I know this sucks.

&gt;Also, animals are technically considered human NPC's in the game, so if an animal witness' you kill somebody, that animal actually alerts police just like a human NPC would. I've gotten wanted for hunting birds.

Hahahahaaa are you sure this is the case? I like to occasionally hunt birds near mt. chilliad too but I have never gotten a wanted level for this... don't know about other animals though.


 &gt; Ya, they have even stated multiple times this was the goal, to create controversy to basically advertise the game. 

That's a terrible ideal to have &gt; some of the best and most popular games out there

Apparently not. The Wii U sales are, and have been, very bad. Is it bad I want this to be literally the same as battle front 2 but with updated graphics animations and story? Gameplay can stay the say Unfortunately no such luck on the UK site. I'll likely buy it, but unless my cheap third-party one holds up, I'll need to invest...
 Yeah, but why have principles that keeps you from what you like. It's a video game, if it looks entertaining go for it and screw the principles. One insane person actually created a religion based around his insanity. IMO it's handling sits in a really fun middle ground apart from how it handles wall riding (but they are fixing that soon^tm ) 

I know a lot of people wanted it to be more of a sim though. Don't joke about this. 90% of my Steam games are just 'Game Name' and then some asshole developer just dumps 'GAMENAME' in horrendous all-caps. I don't know why it irritates me so much but it does! The inconsistancy! Wasn't the original funding goal 2 million?  From Steam:

&gt;Life Is Strange is a five part episodic game that sets out to revolutionise story based choice and consequence games by allowing the player to rewind time and affect the past, present and future. 

So it's a Choose Your Own Adventure where they let you keep your thumb on the choice page in case you change your mind? Better models and textures, higher framerate, more things rendered on screen at once, etc. There's a re-jiggered version on Steam right now if you ever feel like nostalgia tripping without dealing with pre-mouse-look atrocities. I'd like it. Make him the last unlockable character as a fun bonus. He makes confused and intrigued commentary through out free play. Well, the definition of murder is 
&gt;the crime of unlawfully killing a person especially with malice aforethought  
So if the law says it's okay, it's not murder.  
And you don't murder people in Hatred because you want to murder them, you do it because you really really really hate them. That's the character's motivation anyway. &gt;The radius is "every god damned enemy on the map." The real issues were that once you were discovered it was basically impossible to go hide--enemies ALWAYS know where you are, once you've been spotted. So even if you duck behind a wall, crawl through a drain and pop out on the other side of the room / complex, all the guards were there waiting for you. 

I can imagine your frustration hahaha that is a very unfair stealth mechanic. I'm hoping there was quick save/load functionality in this game :P

 Really wish Thief was for ps4 instead.  ME3 multiplayer was awesome and very well received. Even the microtransactions were fair. Maybe you should learn to read because OP didn't put "new" anywhere in the title. If you can't read, you have no room to be a smart ass. Really liked UnEpic, I have a great love for Metroidvania games. My only complaint about the Wii/WiiU controls over Gamecube is that it makes the game slightly easier.  Some of the bosses (especially in MP2) had a lot of "lock on to the enemy, then time your shot so that it lands at the right place at the right time" fights.  With the free-aiming Wiimote, it's a lot easier to just line up the shot yourself instead of waiting.

Still, it's a fantastic series.  I can't recommend it enough. Ya, because what the devs don't realize is they are just tainting the waters, perpetuating the idea that any game that tackles something controversial is just doing it for free marketing. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xECUrlnXCqk Yeah there's been butthurt Ubisoft haters threatening to do that in the forums all month. Honestly I find it hilarious. These people gave Ubisoft $15 so they can post a review most people won't read, and they think they're hurting Ubisoft.

You can't get more retarded than that. You can't. It's like paying your worst enemy to call them a butthole. Sure they heard you insult them, but hey, cash is cash. So I'm guessing there will be a The Crew sequel... here's to hoping they get rid of rubber-banding. Oh no no, I didn't mean a straight up port, that would be insane. But something along the line of escalation. For example, you remeber how you had a sort of "tech tree"? Ok so how about, every time a match ends, both teams get one tech, but the winner gets to decide which one they get (by player vote), and the loser gets one at random. Eventually both teams would get all the techs, and after the rotation ends, you reset the thing. 

You could also do it like this: the tech you win depends on the map you played, and the loser gets to pick the next map? I don't know, something like that. Essentially a small "metagame" that makes the game escalate as matches progress, which keeps it fresh, since no match happens on the same map with the same techs. I can see how that would be true,  but to what degree,  Im not sure. I could also see the even closer similarity between the PS4 and XBox One making optimization more possible this gen. Unlikely perhaps,  but we will see.  Yeah right, like we see with all those 1080p60fps that PS4/XB1 have that the WiiU could never reach. Oh wait... &gt; So what if there's violence and brutality? Every goddamn game has violence in it, there's only different package for it. Shooting policemen or terrorists? Still people, still murder. I mean, yeah, there are civilians too, but why is it okay for GTA V to have a whole city of digital people to shoot, run over and so on, but not for this game? It's just doing whatever gamers want, only it's upfront with it.

The problem I have with Hatred is how the NPCs react. I enjoy going on rampages in GTA (and even more in Saints Row), but the Hatred does not look fun whatsoever. The close up shot of the ground executions and burning someone alive with a flamethrower as they are screaming disturb me. In GTA and Saints Row, killing pedestrians is cartoonish (take GTA as an example, headshots with a sniper rifle create a blood spigot like in a Monty Python sketch). Keep in mind, I didn't enjoy rampages in GTA IV because the game had lost a lot of the cartoonish over-the-top quality that made the others enjoyable.

Now, it is perfectly valid to make a game that does this. Just as other forms of art delve into the same issue. The problem I see here though is that people keep talking about how this game seems *fun*. And that is where this game is diverging from other artwork. In books or movies where the main character is a monster, you can enjoy reading the book but the enjoyment isn't a direct result of the main character killing people but a result of the overall story. With this game, people are saying that the *fun* parts are the horrible acts themselves.

Spec Ops: The Line is an easy example. You start off feeling like a hero who is gunning his way through nameless, faceless bad guys. But you gradually realize that you are a monster. The gameplay is solid and fun by itself, but the game doesn't leave you with the same sense of joy that other FPSs tend to do because of the context of your actions. At the end you are supposed to look back and see that what you did was not the work of a hero but the work of a monster.

Maybe Hatred will actually do something interesting. But everything they have shown so far makes it seem like a shallow game about having fun by murdering people in terrible ways. Should it be banned? No. But that doesn't mean it shouldn't receive criticism for being shallow. &gt; Disatastful? Mmmaybe, but I still don't get why everyone went total nuts about this game.

Pretty much the summary of my feelings towards the situation. Follow on question, are the three games separate downloads or are they bundled into one single installation package?

If they're bundled together, that would require an external hard drive for 8GB Wii U owners.   but how do you ascertain which money came in through the advertising of let's plays, as Nintendo could just claim that that money was going to come in anyway.

As for the boycott, as lot of big people already aren't playing their games, but that doesn't seem to stop their, for want of a better word, dodgy business practices.  Yes, exactly. Hardware is certainly a problem but the problem goes deeper than that. The Nintendo brand, as it is right now, is just not compatible with games like Call of Duty.

This is coming from someone that bought the Wii U on day one and a 3DS at the original $250 price. I love Nintendo games, but I realize that this core group of Nintendo die-hard is shrinking. And frankly, some of the ways that aggression were measured in the experiments you linked are hilarious. They read so deeply into how people look at a picture or answer a question. 

When most people think of aggression they think of someone acting aggressively towards another person, not looking at a picture or reading a short story and answering a question, which is then read into by a psychologist and labeled aggressive.

The variables you're measuring in surrogate for violence at some point have to lend themselves towards actual violence, otherwise it's just masturbatory. They should have named the fucking thing Wii 2 then used the same marketing campaign with those dudes saying "Wii 2 would like to play" holding the gamepad, then shown five people playing Nintendoland. Are you shitting me right now? no really, I'm actually confused. battlefront is made to be played in third person.granted it can be fun in first, I prefer third. just include an option to change between the two and everyone is happy. that's how you make people happy, give options to suit everyone! My general knowledge of Capcom online games is that they are terrible at it. I remember playing Resident Evil 5 online was a chore. You had to search for games using unintuitive options, keep picking lobbies until you found one not already filled with 4 people, and you kept getting booted to the main menu having to redo it again. RE6 had similar issues with cumbersome online implementation and clunky design.  I wonder if there will still be a 616 in a couple of months. From the sounds of it with all the incursions and the new crossover event, there will be no multiverse anymore. Super New 3ds Xl lite You could buy our game about a mass murdering psychopath who killed dozens of people indiscriminately or you could buy it *with a T-shirt!*  I'm actually playing it. The game is fundamentally different now. Check it out.  I just started playing the trilogy a month ago on the Wii. I actually feel like the control scheme from 3 was *improved* in the remakes of 1 and 2 because they didn't add in all the interaction gimmicks. Using terminals only required scanning them in 1 and 2, and it became more tedious in 3 when you had to weld, twist, push, grapple and pull things to make them work. I get that in 3 they wanted to show off the power of the Wii, but I'm glad they didn't add all that into the first two for the remakes. &gt; How about we analyze the market in it's current state?

What, like the 3DS vs. the Vita? How about the Nintendo Ultra? On PC ultra, it definitely does. There are not a lot of games that will keep me playing months or years after release (except for GTA), I seem to get bored of them way too quickly.  The Battlefield series are one of the few games I'll keep playing a year afterwards since the multiplayer can be so fun.  I'm still playing BF4 today but can't say that about any other game in my Steam library.

Even though to me this does seem very similar to BF4 I can justify the price on the amount of new maps, weapons, game modes, gadgets and many others since I put so many hours into Battlefield.  I'm not entirely sure of the amount of maps and game modes yet so you won't seeing me buying this day one (especially since BF4 was broken for SO long) but after a few days when this releases and everything looks fine I'll be picking this one up. This actually looks pretty cool! It's like the painted urns they made back in those days. I definitely agree that games will not make someone evil... of course not... 

I'm all for freedom of speech and no censorship, its just... the idea that people will enjoy doing something that evil (even in virtual world) doesn't feel right...

I don't know... perhaps this depends on personal viewpoint - for me, this is the line behind which lies things that simply should not happen... anywhere... ever... and my conscience refuses to see them as anything, but wrong, even in virtual, imaginary world... Is it not may 19 anymore? The game features stealth missions where this becomes very beneficial. Every sound you make has a radius of impact and theb silencer reduces it significantly. Do you want to try to be edgy? I have Full Mojo Rampage, Pixel Piracy and UnEpic. I haven't tried Pixel Piracy but I did try Full Mojo for a few minutes and it was very enjoyable, watch a video to see how it works and decide if it's your kind of thing, but the game itself is enjoyable. UnEpic is also VERY enjoyable, it's a platformer with loads of references and a generally funny writing, it's also not an easy game, you'll have to strive in many cases through the game, so like before, see if it's your kind of game, if it's, it's really enjoyable. Here's a tip:

Unless you are prepared to spend 100+ hours on this game (well worth it I will add!), you do not need to do every single side quest.

Speaking of side quests, any NPC that is a blue dot on the map is relevant to something. So talk to them multiple times until they repeat themselves. Some won't give you quests until you talk to them multiple times. Though maybe they figure having 2 announcements and being in the news twice is a bigger splash? &gt; So is anyone in this thread not excited to see blatent misinformation and lies?

**FTFY** All three games are in one package, I did not see an option to download them separately.

If you have an 8GB Wii U I assume you'll need an external drive or SD card as a means of storage. Oh wow.... I never knew they put it on Steam. I really want to get this. Thanks for showing me. The late nineties were something else for gaming.. Given the track record of previous Battlefield games, I'm really worried about this launching broken. EA can apologize all it wants for BF4, but their actions have said much more to me than their words. 

Will wait for reviews, and reports of servers exploding, before I actually buy this one.  I think the only problem with LoTR is the voice acting, taking audio direct from the movie was quite a bad idea IMO.
 No, that's Diablo 2.5 I wish they'd do a proper reboot. Would love to see a modern version of AitD 1-3. I'd pay full price for that.

The sound effects even are cheap in this one. That repetitive lightning strike, the gun shots... The lazy character models aren't helping either.

Really hoping AitD gets another day in the sun sometime. Right, but what games from that group can I get on PC? Gangbeasts for party brawlers. The others I can't even think of. Nintendo has a niche in the secondary console market that nobody else can fill. You say that but Sony can simply choose to no longer license them as a ps4 dev so it's all the same in the end. I felt like the self-built city (Colony 6? Or was it 9?) and the gem machine were both poorly explained. Maybe I'm just retarded, but I didn't figure out / bother to start expanding the colony until three quarters into the game. And I didn't get the portable gem machine until about halfway through because it was tied to a sidequest (which was a very odd design choice for such an essential item).

Also,

&gt;I struggle with countering a vision. When I do, then another vision replaces it within 5 seconds, and since there's only a few ways to inflict topple to cancel a vision, a vision usually implies a party wipe within a few rounds.

If you happen to be underleveled, enemies get a huge damage bonus against you. Visions are not hard-coded except during one boss battle; they'll trigger in advance of a fatal attack. If your party is getting decimated so badly that visions are triggering during visions, you should probably rework your build or check the level difference. Not really. The launch date is a few weeks before the movie comes out. They could push it back two months and it'd still be fine. It would be hard to do. I mentioned that as a way to point out that YouTubers and streamers are good for Nintendo and game devs because the exposure of their products leads to more sales.

Alienating them is backwards mentality corporate greed. You know about PSN's troubled, but not aware of any XBL issues?  Kind of hard to ignore that if you keep up with gaming news or are a fan of XB1/PS4. I guess you only keep track of PS issues?

Plus, one thing a lot of misinformed people like to mention is PSN maintenance as if its such a bad thing....you can still play online and use apps, you just can't access your PSN account. I think it's unfair to put blame on the consumers. Sure, Nintendo always releases polished games, but not necessarily great games.


The WiiU is a bit of a stinker of a console imo. Underpowered, pretty cheap feeling (Nint. prefers to sell consoles above cost which provides some explanation), no third party support. They are fairly primitive when it comes to online infrastructure - account systems and in-game chat.


They like to straddle the line of core gamer and family friendly console which is a turn off to me personally.


Ultimately they could have saved a heap of trouble by calling it the Wii2. They obviously wanted to ride on the momentum generated by the Wii, which is fair enough, but failed to distinguish the WiiU as a new console. I would have thought a phycologist would be more than qualified to interpret such information.  Two call of duty games, two assassins creed games, tekken tag 2, ZombiU... There are more ways than just Topple and the Monado to counter visions. Sharla's Shield Bullet is another. Look through each character's skills to find the others. I'm a 32 year old billionaire with a yacht company, and I'm playing this. Speak for yourself, sir.  I still think this game is a disgrace to the gaming scene. Technical it looks good. Even the gameplay might be interesting, but I am sorry context matters. Some people say: What is different towards any other top down shooter?

Context. Context matters. To me this game is a disgrace. It wants to be provocative and people will try to defend it, because it is edgy. I think there are borders in good taste and this game crosses it a billion times. &gt;But most people do

I think the sales of what third party games came out for it say otherwise.  It's funny you mention those who play on PC.  I know plenty of PC gamers who also own a Wii U.  There's such a diverse variety of gaming markets now that it's hard to nail down which ones you want to target.

I've been a Nintendo fan ever since I got an NES for my birthday.  But I'm one of the few Nintendo die-hards, and our numbers are shrinking every generation.

I just think Nintendo needs to go all-out with their next console system.  Make it powerful, and pull in those 3rd party developers, while still pumping out Nintendo exclusives. well that is kinda irrelevant because you can use whatever controller you want on PC. Having picked up a 3DS recently, I disagree. I'm glad to see Nintendo experimenting with a second screen for gameplay. I'm finding it handy even if they just stick the inventory menu in that spot. 

Buying a console to have the most powerful hardware is turning out to be a bust anyway. So many "next gen" games are coming in at 720 or 900p and 30fps. The truth is, the consoles aren't really 8th gen, they're 7.5 gen. They can run beefed up versions of 7th gen games. Only PC and, before too long, Steamboxes sport true 8th gen hardware. Since Nintendo is going early, they're in position to be the first of the big 3 to have a true 8th gen console. 

Nintendo knows how to make a game look good without having the latest beefiest hardware, they're actually willing to experiment with their hardware and back it up with their own game development. As a PC Owner looking at the big 3, the Wii U is the only console I currently have any reason to buy. There are barely any promising looking console exclusives (those not getting a PC Port) aside from Sunset Overdrive and that just doesn't stack up to the Nintendo Library. But they launch at $40. Know how the wii-mote controls compare the original GC ones for Prime and Prime II? I always thought the C-stick for them was kinda weird.

I'm wondering how good they feel using the wii-mote.

Ty mate. I love you. I think "Super" is kind of an ambiguous term, actually, and not the best. If it was the Super Wii, then that means it's just a Wii, right? The Super is just that weird controller, yeah?

Super 3DS? Oh like the Super Nintendo! So this is their next handheld? But the 3DS wasn't around for long this is way too soon.

Obviously these two reactions are sorta mutually exclusive, but that's kind of my point. It's hard to divine the reaction to that, so despite the history (and how much I personally like it), it's not the best.

I do think, if they used it, it would have been better used on the Wii U and not on the new 3DS. A Super Wii would have that history behind the name. http://i.imgur.com/Iqy3lny.png Pretty slim. Translating those would make the game's localization budget skyrocket, whether it be licensing the LNs that have already been done (hoping both Viz and Yen Press charge reasonable fees) or translating what hasn't already been localized. I would like to see it done too but from a business perspective, there's a lot of work involved, several obstacles that could outright halt the process, and the additional sales generated might not cover what it cost to have it done anyways. Good though they may be, they are not the only game (pardon the pun) in town. Looking at Twitch as of 6:50PM 1/29/2015, the nintendo product with the highest viewers is currently Pokemon Omega Ruby and Alpha Sapphire with only 2600-ish viewers. Smash4 peaks higher during tournaments but outside of certain cases Nintendo Products generally don't garner high views.

The issue with this program, purely from a business perspective is that frankly, their competition is literally free. Why should I give a cut to cover Nintendo when I could go to countless indie devs who would be grateful for the attention, or other large companies who basically take a hands off approach. Not to mention the risk of signing the contract itself, wheras other cases you just mute the soundtrack and consider the Robot-claims a cost of doing business.

Hell, there's also the fact that you're opinions by default become suspect since you effectively have taken what is essentially a brand deal with Nintendo if you care about the psuedo-reviewer aspect of Letsplays. I like the option to go first person, but these games *require* third person view to have the same feel. If they don't have third person camera options, I won't be buying it. I'm still happy playing the first two games. Meh.  Yes and no. You can kill anyone any where, however different regions of space will have different levels of security. If you kill people in a high security area you will NPC after you along with a bounty on your head. Low security regions you can do what you what with not much of a penalty. That's what planned but we will know more by the end of the year when Persistent universe alpha comes out.  That wasn't EA's fault, that was DICE. Any free roam dino game would make me in. I couldn't care less about the story. What would make it top notch in my book would be: 

1.) Vibrant colors

2.) Large map

3.) The ability to learn facts about the things you encounter. 

4.) A mix of modern, and primitive weapons

5.) The ability to glide from ledges, and mountain tops so I can overlook different scenery.   While the hardware may have sold extremely well, the software sales were nowhere near as good as the Xbox 360 or PS3.

Which is why 3rd party developers shied away from Wii development.  They knew that most of the Wii audience, excluding actual Nintendo fans, weren't going to buy any new games for the system.  Most of the audience pretty much stuck with Wii Sports games, and maybe some Nintendo exclusives. Have you ever played Red Orchestra 2? The game has online campaigns, attacking/defending is determine by votes, it takes 10 seconds. It wouldn't be too difficult to translate to Star Wars Battlefront Bang on. You probably got downvoted for telling people what they don't want to hear.  This looks really, really good.  I mean the next gen consoles were literally all new. Completely different hardware and software.

If you're gonna try to say that they're the same thing as previous gen consoles just with upgrades then we're just getting into some ridiculous semantics argument. 

I think it's very clear what the point of this whole discussion here is, which is that you shouldn't imply that these are stages that weren't in the game before. 1. Bring in Commanders  a la BF4 otherwise MVP from previous game
2. Sucks but this is going to happen in any Campaign based multiplayer, Just look at games like wargame that are RTS that have multiplayer campaigns.
3. This is what happens in Red Orchestra 2 and its not particularly detrimental. Psychology has got a long and storied history of being blatantly wrong. It's done a lot of good but it truly is a soft science. There's so much open to interpretation. 

Just because a psychologist designs a test to be taken after a video game is played does not mean that it accurately measures aggression. Measuring aggression via a placeholder variable requires a lot of interpretation, and any interpretation can easily taint the scientific method. It's both. DICE and EA higher ups both agreed to the release time table. If either thought that they wouldn't be able to meet it, then it would have been pushed. EA and DICE are very much partners which is a result of the fear within EA that if they try to push too hard major DICE talent will leave the studio and form something like Respawn. So there's a lot of back and forth between the two. 

Both slap their names on the product so both deserve blame.  Meanwhile in Castle Siege. I think rubberbanding is one of those things where you'd notice it if it's poorly done or not at all, but are at its best if you don't even notice it, so I think we're not going to see many good examples in this thread. ZombiU was definitely not a killer app, neither were Assassin's Creed or CoD... I don't know much about Tekken Tag 2 Inb4 this bankrupts Jonathan It actually reminds me of "The Girl Who Leapt Through Time". Great anime film that deals with teenagers and time travel. It's light hearted while still having a message. 

This looks pretty cool. I may have to check it out once all of the episodes release. I'm probably in the minority here, but I really hope it is as close to BF4 as possible. I loved the old Battlefront games, but mostly just because I loved Star Wars. And I remember playing them and wishing they were like the big first person Battlefield battles I was having over on my PC. Third person has never really done it for me, and BF4 is far and away the game I have put the most hours into in this console cycle. 


I'm counting the days until Battlefront. 

  [This](https://robertsspaceindustries.com/comm-link/engineering/12879-Death-Of-A-Spaceman) is a link to how the game is dealing with character death, and I believe it also gives a sense on how pvp will be handled.  And [PS3 was 899](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/PlayStation_3_launch) If providing criticism to an underselling console is 'hate-jerking', then is it fair to say there is also plenty of rabid nintendo fanboyism too? Which is terrible, this game is gonna have so many preorders and people will excuse bf4s awful launch and will help perpetuate awful launch practices.

 eh, i'm extremely skeptical about this. at the lowest all its going to be is BF reskined with Star Wars, with all those god damn re-used animations from BF3 and 4 which will just piss me off. especially considering development only started in 2013, which gives the game 2 years to differentiate itself from battlefield, which i doubt it will make, especially with DICE's past track record. but we'll see. Yeah, from what it sounds like this guy reacts to visions purely offensively when apart from *that* vision defensive actions are almost always better. Reyn aggroing shield bullet, healing up and taking it like a man, and plenty of others. This submission has been automatically removed because it is a direct image link.

If this post is something like a funny screenshot, meme, comic, cosplay, arts-and-crafts, etc., please submit to /r/gaming or /r/GamerPorn instead. Submissions to /r/Games should be for the purpose of informing or initiating a discussion, not just with the goal of entertaining viewers.

If you believe that your submission belongs in /r/Games, it may be better to [submit as a self-post](http://www.reddit.com/r/Games/submit?selftext=true) and include some additional info about the image. Or if you're quite certain that a direct image link is the best way for this to be submitted, [message the moderators](http://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=%23Games&amp;subject=Please+reapprove) and ask us to approve the post (please include a link to it).


*[I am a bot](/r/AutoModerator/comments/q11pu/what_is_automoderator/), and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2FGames) if you have any questions or concerns.* Oh my god. They are pushing developers to release at unrealistic dates again...

*Will they ever,* ***ever*** learn?* No. Because nobody every thought the Super Nintendo was just a new controller or system case for the NES. I definitely agree with you about the interaction gimmicks. I didn't care for them either, which is why I only mentioned the aiming system.  I did really like using the Nunchuk to rip people's shields away, though. I know Homeworld is getting remastered

http://www.homeworldremastered.com/

&gt;Crafted with the assistance and guidance of the original creators as well as the help of a passionate fan community, Homeworld Remastered Collection introduces Relic's acclaimed space strategy games Homeworld and Homeworld 2 to modern players and operating systems using modern advances in graphics rendering technology. Homeworld Remastered Collection includes updated high-res textures and models, new graphical effects, and support for HD, UHD, and 4K resolutions. Homeworlds original audio and video artists have also recreated cinematic scenes in beautiful high fidelity.

Homeworld Remastered Collection uses Homeworld and Homeworld 2s original source audio to create a stunning new mix of effects and music. On top of that, multiplayer for both games has been combined into one centralized mode that will allow you to interact with other players like never before. This collection also includes archival versions of Homeworld Classic and Homeworld 2 Classic, preserving the purest form of the original releases with compatibility for modern operating systems.

The Homeworld Remastered Collection will soon be available for pre-order on leading PC digital platforms -- keep checking back for more updates and media! That sounds exactly like eve, what doctorbigtime suggested at. Nintendo content gets taken down immediately? Dude, get off the hype train.

Watch dogs, Sleeping dogs, Assassin's Creed Unity, Mass Effect 3, Battlefield 4, Spacebase DF9...

Do we not have enough examples blatantly showing that overhyping a game can effectively kill it? You got all of that from less than 2 minutes of a gameplay trailer? Whatever you're smoking, I want some. It's still on sale on the [MangaGamer site](http://www.mangagamer.com/detail.php?goods_type=1&amp;product_code=125) for $15 (with H-scenes and a Steam key for the all ages version). The release date is in the late 2016... Weird. I got actual steam keys instead of the auto-redeem to linked steam account. Did that happen to everyone else? A new operation genesis would be very nice with this gen and PC's. There are SO MANY possibilities. The underwater reptiles, flying reptiles, then of course all the new dinosaurs. This generation should be able to handle a lot more than the first operation genesis. Tinkering with indirect causes and unforeseen consequences can make it an interesting puzzle mechanic. Seconded. This looks like a forgettable teenage summer movie.

Also, from a technical perspective, the graphical fidelity here is miles from what I'd expect from something being put out by Square. This looks like something from 10 years ago, visually. I want to see Nintendo really use DLC to its fullest for Smash Bros, I want nothing more than to see them make huge profits so they can continue to provide great games for us, and I am willing to pay boatloads to make it happen.

I don't even plan on playing Mewtwo, and I will still buy the DLC, even if it costs $15 and is only Mewtwo. Okay, you seem to know more about this than I do.

Do any of the studies that prove there is no link perform a better study? Do you know of the game, Spec Ops: The Line, pretty much exactly what you described and people treat that game similar to being told your adopted... the battlefronts were based off the early battlefield games btw, they were almost identical game wise. Procedural games you can play in short bursts are perfect for a portable! Can't wait for nuclear throne to come out It's ridiculous how good that game still looks on GameCube, let alone with a new layer of polish.  Give it a Battlefield-size budget, get a battlefield-size failure I've gotta finish nekopara and 100% huniepop first, but it's on my list now. 

&gt;as this wasn't listed at the end in the trailer 

Every trailer on the PlayStation YouTube channel does that. Was it ever May 19th? I loved the first one, but Insect Armageddon sucked so bad I stopped paying attention to future releases.

I wonder if 2025 will be released for XB1 at some point? Rise of cell phones has eaten into that market. Unfortunately the gameplay looks kinda bad, and I've heard the hands-on people get isn't great.

How was Budokai Tenkaichi 3 the last good DBZ game? How do they keep getting messed up? I'm also in that category, but I'm not going to fool myself.  If I only pay 59.99 for the game on day one I'm not going to be getting a full game.   [http://www.reddit.com/r/Games/comments/2s76x8/steam_is_removing_support_for_oauth_causing/](http://www.reddit.com/r/Games/comments/2s76x8/steam_is_removing_support_for_oauth_causing/) How? The New 3DS is likely to sell better than the Wii U is, and they can sell Xenoblade to you for more than $20.  That is why he said that optimizing development for those systems will only get better. Look at the first Uncharted for the PS3 compared to The Last of Us. The quality gets better as time goes on. Eventually you will have 1080p@60fps on the PS4/XB1 that will consistently look better than what the Wii U can pull off.  You're not wrong. I bought MP3 a week before trilogy was announced (I was amazed it was on sale.... was so angry).

I was temped to buy trilogy just to try MP1&amp;2 with motion control. Now is the time. Just too bad there are no Club Nintendo coins! Cool. But it revels nothing new or interesting about the game itself.  Really? Your willing to pay for playable characters and stages?  That's what is wrong with DLC, for a game like that it really messes with the balance.  Skins and even entirely different models that are just clones of other characters is fine, but when you actually create a new character that other people simply won't be able to play, that is really bad for balancing and fairness.  Similarly, some people will have stages others won't, something we've learned from other online games is a really horrible and community destroying idea (one of the reasons why console games have such poor community persistence)  why does every person look like they came straight out of Sims 3? You know I just couldn't get into it. I didn't really like the world, the art, or the characters. The combat was good for a while but it started getting ridiculous when it was like "When the boss character is about to do this you will get a psychic notice four seconds ahead of time, and if the hex grid is this way be sure to hit the SILVER avoidance move, otherwise use this shield thing  unless it's a GOLD attack in which case you should use your OWN power attack quick to catch them off guard! Oh unless they're hardened against power attacks, in which case you'll need character X to soften their shield, which they might do automatically!"

I felt like it was a bad puzzle trying to play effectively, and the world didn't feel real to me. I dunno. I'm looking forward to X though I know the art style is going to be similar. If your definition of better stages is more neutrals, then yes, a game exclusively designed to be competitive has "better" stages.

But for the other 70-80% of people who play the game, Great Cave Offensive is way more interesting than another, slightly different Battlefield. No kid Goku or DB characters, but as far as DBZ goes it looks to be amazing How does power matter? I promise you as "powerful" as the XB1/PS4 are, you will not get Zelda running on it. This is pretty much my most anticipated game at the moment. This game cannot come out soon enough.

I'm really praying for a release date soon. Though it's a little disheartening to hear he's not even finished with the story. I'm just so excited for it. It's the problem with only being able to perform an ethical experiment that hamstrings psychology. They can't try to create an experiment where someone plays Doom for 16 hours and then gives them the option of caving in a homeless man's head with a 9 iron. So they have to insert themselves into the experiments, which causes a ton of issues.

The most telling thing about psychology's inability to adequately study this issue is that there is literally no consensus and every year we get more experiments which tell us the same thing, that there's no consensus. Meanwhile, violent crime continues to drop and the video game industry continues to grow. They still switch into Wii Mode to play the games, but they show up in the Wii U Menu and eShop. Thank you for the suggestion! Yup same. I got my wiiu at launch and it remains my most played console.- And that's saying a lot, we have basically everything aside from an xbone and a vita in the house. It's a shame that fewer and fewer people appreciate what Nintendo does There's no release date, but it's likely to be first half of this year, I imagine. My advice is to just forget it exists and then feel delighted when it shows up unannounced one day on Steam. Steam recently changed the method of redeeming all keys, it's a bit of a step back from just one button, but hey, Humble Bundles are still great value and it doesn't take too much longer. I'm not changing anything.  the value of an expansion pack is subjective.  If I get a million hours of enjoyment from that one map but think the fifty new tracks in MK suck, then the $5 was better spent.  Who are you to tell me that I'm wrong?  

OP's original comment was fanboy nonsense.  "**My** favorite game is doing DLC right because **I** really like my favorite game's DLC."  I called him out on it.  

Anyway, this is a stupid fight.  I'm done now. Because back then reiterations where not rebranded. The top-loader NES was still an NES.

In this day and age you can guarantee people would assume Super 3DS to be the same console, just like they assumed the Wii U was the same as the Wii &gt; The call of duty crowd has decided that Nintendo is for babies and won't even consider it regardless of specs.

What reason do you have to believe this? The last time Nintendo was competitive in specs was the Game Cube, and Sony had a massive catalog advantage back then. I think "interesting" is the best way to put it.

At first you think that it will incentivize modding. Imagine how many more great, and better quality mods there will be if Elder Scrolls VI implements this. Expansive mods like Falskaar will commonplace!

But for how much? Right now, my Skyrim has probably 50 or so mods on it. How much more would I have to spend to re-create that? I think something will be lost if every cool armour set has a price tag on it. Transistor was GoTY nominee material. It's leagues above. Right, I see, thanks for the insight into the shortcoming of psychology, I have no real knowledge of it. 
 The ending to Kotor 1 (at least, the light side ending) was classic Star Wars - the bad guy gets killed by the good guy (after quasi-repenting in his death throes) and the protagonists get a medal from the republic/rebels/whatever.

The ending to Kotor _2_, on the other hand, was an unintelligible mess. Oh, man. Metroid was one of my first NES games. Super Metroid still one of my all time favorites. I remember my blind nerdrage when I found out they were making it into a FPS but damn, if it wasn't great. Never got to play 2 though. 

Quick search showed nothing in JP store. Google tells me Japan never got the Trilogy bundle on Wii. So safe to assume this won't be a thing for me. I can almost taste the disappointment. My original wii is US so guess I'll have to get that version. &gt;I think it's very clear what the point of this whole discussion here is, which is that you shouldn't imply that these are stages that weren't in the game before.

But that's just it.  They WEREN'T in the game before.  There were very similar stages before, but they had differences.  It's not like someone at Nintendo just edited some data file and set "Allow_in_8player_mode = true".  Someone went, and had make new versions of existing levels, and change them so that they'd be suitable 8-player.

&gt;If you're gonna try to say that they're the same thing as previous gen consoles just with upgrades then we're just getting into some ridiculous and pointless semantics argument.

Actually, I think you'll find that my point is that we're ALREADY in a pointless semantic argument, where people are bickering over whether a new thing is "new enough" to be called "new". It's a pretty fun jRPG with a shit inventory system. As long as you don't mind walking through cities four or five times over on every visit to get all your relationship stuff done (Star Ocean style rather than Persona style), you'll probably have a good time.

Grats on the acquisition. Hope you didn't pay too much. The markups I've seen on second-hand copies are outrageous.  I would love for there to be single player instant action. I don't play online as much any more these days (family and what not) so I'm always a bit behind the people that dedicate more time to it. I still love playing those sorts of games when they do happen but I'd love to just go up against AI as I think I'd enjoy it a whole lot more instead of getting frustrated with players who are just simply better than me. &gt; I would take you seriously if you weren't clearly a fanboy just judging by your name.

I'd take you seriously if you weren't clearly a fallen priest with ringworm and a penchant for theft judging by YOUR name. Realize you have no argument, so go straight for the ad hominem! Good job, did you learn that in high school debate as well? What did I say about fucking off, can you even read? Also the N64 was technically more powerfull than the PS1 but still was not the best selling there are also examples like that with 16 and 8 bit consoles where the most powerful does not always sell the best like the Atari Jaguar. balancing a moba like DotA is way, way more difficult than just saying that they added some rubberbanding. there are different stages of the game and usually the goal is to enable comebacks while not completely making the earlygame irrelevant. additionally, heroes/champions scale differently throughout the game further impacting this balance. i personally think that "hidden" boni like the one you mentioned are not the optimal way to do it, rather introduce different stuff like lategame objectives you can take aftera  successful teamfight or a shutdown mechanic.  So they'll push it out the door a year before it's ready? And problem here is that BF4 was fixed by DICE LA, not main DICE.  What are you playing on? I had some issues on PC but nothing game breaking I think For me, Smash bros is a party game just like Mario Kart or Mario Party. It's just more content in my eyes. I agree, I don't think it would feel like a full game without some sort of handcrafted campaign. I think they should keep randomly generated levels as another mode though. Or perhaps even let players design their own. Sale's probably going to end soonish, so might be worth grabbing early to save a few dollars. Hey u guys think the crossbuy will work on ps4 for theif instead of ps3? Probably not but a man can only hope Is that for sure that they aren't there? There's always DLC hopefully Yep I'm glad I paid full price to support the developers.  2142 had bots IIRC Is it possible to play the 3rd game without motion controls? How is it not fair? Its not like the game is incomplete. If they did add paid character or stage DLC, how would it not be fair for those who don't buy it? I might give this a shot.  I own the original Prime on the Gamecube, but I hate the controls so much that I could never play through it.  I've heard the Wiimote controls are a lot better. 2 comments but no comments here. Someone is shadow banned.  Anyway, I was massively sad when the ouya flopped.  They're old franchises, but done differently enough that I don't feel like I'm always playing the same game. I really love platformers, they're amongst my favorite type of games. I don't anywhere it's done better than in Mario games, so I don't really want them to go (but I'll admit Super Meat Boy was good) Well its similar to eve, but much more complicated and deep of a system.  How can someone decide for themselves if they don't try it? You mean:

* DS - DS Lite - DSi

* 3DS - 3DS XL - 2DS - New 3DS &gt; I'm looking forward to the feature where you put in your credit card number to launch a volley of nukes at your enemies.

?

Are you referring to the being able to buy ships? Because that will stop once the game launches and all the ships will be obtainable in-game. They decide whether or not they think it's worth trying. ARMA is a slow game in general.  Maybe the third person camera has something to do with that but I'd say it's just the inherent nature of what ARMA is trying to be. Nah, you're just regurgitating the circlejerk.  Every Hatred post has a variation along the lines of, "I know for a fact this game is for edgy angsty emo people."

Even though there's only been a couple of one minute trailers a lot of Redditors seem to already know what the entire game's target audience and purpose/message is.   Insect Armageddon is by a completely different studio. You cannot go wrong with Sandlot.  That movie was great, if suffering some classic Sadamoto sameface at some points.

Seriously, the girl turns into Shinji Ikari whenever she made a shocked face. Thief is a crime against humanity. I have never played any of other games in the series and even I can tell it has no business existing in way, shape or form. It's *that* fucking bad. Realize you have no argument, so go straight for the ad hominem! Good job, did you learn that one in high school debate? You really should reread that part where I told you fuck off, as it is painfully clear you have absolutely of nothing of substance to say. Well that explains that really weird trophy.  Absolutely awesome.

I'd just like it to have a softer movement and aiming, I can see it is not thaaat soft, reminds me of Half-Life. Rubber banding is pretty annoying in Mario Kart, because even if you are kicking ass and you are way ahead of all the other humans, some dumb AI can just overtake you at the last moment and take away precious points. But the original Wii was incredibly popular. One failed console and they should now consider removing themselves from hardware production?  They have not. You have any idea how long it took rule 17 to get added? How rare it is for them to explain any mod action? Don't pretend like this post is the norm. At times in that game, I felt like the kids with the raptors in the kitchen Yeah, but I don't want to hate on Metro 2033 too much.  It had its weird bits like the stealth, but it's a hell of a game overall.

What's funny is that the sequel, Last Light, goes a bit too far in the oposite direction to make stealth almost laughably easy.  

I guess the moral of the story is: stealth is hard, yo.   hypothetical- My neighbor is never home. He also leaves his wallet full of money in his home, and he never locks his doors. I like money, but I hold a principle which dictates that I should never steal from or hurt another human being. My principle keeps me from what I like (money), so according to your comment, I should do away with that principle in order to obtain what it is that I like.

Thoughts? I don't mean this to be passive aggressive, I genuinely just want a response, edit, or a clarification. imo the biggest mistake of the wii u was the controller. we are closing in on the halfway point of the wii u's life cycle, and still the game that best used it was their first - nintendo land. a cool concept but just so underutilized that it became essentially worthless. look at the best games - mario kart, bayonetta, smash... not one of them uses the controller, in fact, it's better to play with the pro controller or wii mote (or even the gc controller!) for those games. 

but in return, the controller probably jacked the price of the wii u by at least 100 dollars, and confused a ton of people into thinking it was the add on to the original wii. it alone probably cost nintendo millions of sales (imagine how much more it would sale if the wii u price started under 300, maybe close to 200). overall just a massive mistake. I stumbled on EDF2017 on X360 in the bargain bin and wasnt expecting to enjoy it as much as I have. I am hooked on the series and I hope more come to the PC.  Well you technically have a week  Yeah, just keep it nice and hidden so that as few people as possible realize there's a problem, right? Hey, it's that superhero you like Jimmy!  I'm afraid the game will get pretty repetitive in about 1 playthrough. I wonder if they have bigger plans for this and not gona just get sales from the PR this game got. 

But hey! Postal 2 is the shit and I bought it on steam. Maybe they can manage. But the balancing is VERY DIFFERENT to current battlefield.

They CANNOT let every engineer have a lock on anti air weapon if they want to maintain the battlefront feeling.

If I have to spam flares every 10 seconds in an xwing i'm gonna be mad as hell. Yea, I found that out the hard way :( Yeah, but steam sales bro  &gt; It's 2015, yet to add a friend on my WiiU, I need to get some long numerical code and whatnot like I'm using ICQ.

The Wii U has usernames just like every other console. It doesn't use friendcodes like its predecessor.  Compared to what? /r/videos? No. Did you? You might want to read the comment I replied to then. Are those numbers at the end the price tag for the DLC? Only 1200 points on the E-Shop?

And what was that about Dark Link at the end? The voice acting in this is just awful. Wolverine has fallen off the side of the rainy prison entrance... And now, he looks respawning and falling for ever There should be pretty much 0 effort involved in slapping it on the e-shop, and Xenoblade X is going to be on the Wii U. If that were really true you wouldn't see comments like this all over the place wondering why certain mod actions were taken. I think one thing to recognise is that there is no one truly to blame for bad marketing, because that basically means that you had misconceptions of who was going to buy your product, it was terrible but cannot be blamed as being fully the fault of a company. Good for you! Not who you're asking, but ive got a standard XL (for now) and ive been playing the 4U demo a LOT. It plays well. They changed the camera a bit though. MH used to have preset "Angles". Angle 1-4 and you could swap between them. 

Now, that still. exists (Kinda anyway) but by default all thats turned off. The camera is now a smooth camera with no preset angles. its been designed for a second stick obviously, but if you go in the Options menu you can still use the L-Targeting from 3U and go back to classic preset camera angles.

Other than that it plays like a smoother MH3U. The animations are a lot more fluid, the vertical gameplay feels SO good and natural and mounting is awesome. The main difference between a 3DS and a N3DS will be textures and load times.

The N3DS has much sharper textures and a clearer image quality overall. it also has dramatically reduced load times. However, if you arnt too bothered by those 2 things then MH4U plays perfectly on an old 3DS/3DS XL As far as I can tell, all three games in the download use the motion controls exclusively.  In the 3rd game, the motion controls work excellently for aiming and shooting, and there are a couple abilities that work well with them, but there are also some gimmicky applications, such as opening locks or pulling levers.  But those situations generally only last a second or two so they don't bother me too much. They're not new versions. They were literally already in the game, just with hazards on instead of off. If they had different platforms or something with the same aesthetic I could see it being 'new' but that's not the case here. Roshan is already a valid late-game objective. Dota is of course a very complex game but the most major change in 6.82 was the comeback rubberband mechanism that was added. It is the reason [Hard carries and right-click counters are topping the leaderboard for 1/2 a year now](http://www.dotabuff.com/heroes/winning) and will continue to do so. I doubt they can make a handheld that powerful. 3DS games are about on par with early PS2 stuff. No way they jump 2 gens with one handheld.  I've been impossibly jazzed about this game for, jeez, four years now. A full sixth of my life, a full fifth of my conscious life, has passed with me thinking about this game probably a few times a week, on average. 

When I first got excited for this game, I had never played Myst or Riven. Now, having played them to prepare myself for The Witness, I believe they are two of the best video games ever made. I feel like I'm just going to melt down into my component pieces when I'm finally actually able to exchange money for this video game, download it, and then play it. You are actually incorrect. Implying that doing in person research is a bad thing. Almost every major production studio does field trips like that. Disney sent it's animators and cloth specialists to snow covered mountains just to see how snow would affect the clothing in Frozen. As long as the Gun model gets smaller, the FOV gets a slider, and it's  FPS isn't locked this game will be an instant buy for me. also just by browsing the comments I think it would be cool to have a campaign or challenge mode with some hand crafted levels Everytime i've had to add someone I've had to use the code.

I think...

I could be getting confused with the 3DS on that one. I'm questioning your realm of reality if you're honestly comparing playing a video game to robbing your neighbor. A Japanese RPG built to play like a Western RPG, and they don't currently have plans for this to come to the west.

Yeah, you can definitely tell it's Capcom running things, because that decision would be completely idiotic. So basically you have to build your own difficulty system to get it to be anything similar to how the original game was?

Making the player have to make arbitrary choices to limit himself so it feels like the original game is just not good enough.  My favorite thing about this game so far is the website: http://www.strafe1996.com/ Oh boy...Come back when we have beta mode stages.No, this is cool, I just don't care about 8 player. Its just way too much. I want more competitive stages with platform. Holy crap this is insane. I never got to play 2 &amp; 3, and i just barely remember the 1st. Anyone else would try to charge $40-$60 for this. But not only is the base price for 3 awesome, lengthy games only $20, they're slicing the price in half for a whole week. 

*manly tears stream down face as he clicks the purchase button* Ya did good Nintendo, real good. 
 Now you too can play zero punctuation's worst game of last year.

The other games are great, but... Thief is... 

Ugh... It's free, it's worth trying but any fan of that series is going to be glad they didn't pay for it. Log in to store.sonyentertainmentnetwork.com with your psn credentials and "buy" all the free games you see. I "buy" all PS3, Vita and PS4 games, even though I don't have a ps4 and my ps3 is all boxed up. You'll be happy to know that Sony has far from forgotten the vita. In their latest update, they show their love for the vita by removing both the YouTube app and the Google Maps app. So while vita owners aren't getting Spotify, they are getting something. Namely shafted. The fire looks like shit, just because the developer team is smaller doesn't mean that the merit of what they do increases. Been playing the Demo a bit today and i'm...a bit torn about it. It seems a lot like a tongue-in-cheek Xcom. Stereotypical, "Tea-and-crumpets" british characters and stereotypical "Gung-ho" 'Muricans are everywhere and i loves it.

The main thing i dont "loves" however is that when its the enemies turn, you have time to put the 3DS down, go to the kitchen, make a sandwich, bring it to the 3DS, realise you forgot a drink, go make a drink, bring THAT to your 3DS and then eat that sandwich + drink combo and then look at your 3DS to see that its still not your turn yet --__--

The camera is locked to one of your characters backs during the enemies turn and they move SO freaking slow its unreal. Every enemy moves too, so even the ones that you cant SEE yet are moving..ever..so...slowly. It makes me tear my hair out. No, as far as I can see. Any videos that get content ID-ed on my channel by Nintendo just aren't elligible for monetization. Period. Then again, I could just be slipping under the radar here. Im curious, what are the inexcusable flaws in Frostbite 3? I'm iffy about that wording. A "Battlefield-sized" push? Is this the same Battlefield that pours millions upon millions into marketing every year in an attempt to out-hype Call of Duty? This industry is already absolutely goddamn *obsessed* with hyping up games beyond unreasonable proportions, as the triple-threat of Titanfall, Watch Dogs and Destiny more than proved last year. I don't want Battlefront to be hyped in the same way and then fail to meet everybody's expectations.

Now if they're talking about giving more creative control to the developers, then I'm 100% on board. Games are built best when the devs are free to make the games they want to make. But if this "Battlefield-sized" push means putting out six trailers a month, plastering advertising all over the subway and interviews with DICE officials who just talk about how goddamn amazing the game is, I'd rather not see it go anywhere near Battlefront. I love that franchise, and I remember treasuring it as a kid: the last thing we need is a disappointing entry in it.

If this "push" means hype, don't do it, and oppose it actively. We, the consumers, gain absolutely nothing from hype. They, the publisher, gain everything from it. I have no plans on ever getting a PS3, unfortunately. well if they are DLC that would be amazing, but I was just referring to what we know for sure. 

For instance Great Ape Baby is in the game, but regular Baby and Baby Vegeta/Gohan haven't ben revealed, but it might be safe to assume they'll be added Fedora alert A Japanese RPG built to play like a Western RPG, and they don't currently have plans for this to come to the west.

Yeah, you can definitely tell it's Capcom running things, because that decision would be completely idiotic.
 You could download all your games on a flash drive and keep that connected while you can have a game disc in there so you could listen and play at the same time. I agree, it could definitely be an interesting mechanic. Just thought it was a funny comparison I can see how that would be annoying for the competitive scene. But as someone who is just a casual player I Sonic and Duck Hunt definitely work as different and interesting fighting styles. The whole concept of the game is just stupid. A game should be innovative in its gameplay, not try and create social stigma like this game is. There is nothing innovative (or really even good) about the gameplay here, the whole reason for its existence is because the developers want to try to seem "edgy" just for the shock value. What a waste of time. Just get a pair from your local CEX. They're not lying, or being dishonest. Nowhere does it say the stages are new.

"A new update for Super Smash Bros. for Wii U adds not one, not two, but fifteen additional 8-Player Smash stages - free of charge!" The issue is that Metriod has to be made by the same people who did the prime series or it's going to be bad.  I'm actually not trying to be critical of Star Citizen or the development process, so i may have not been articulate.  

Chris Roberts is essentially living the dream for anyone who makes anything for a living- he has an order of magnitude more money than he asked for, he doesn't have to answer to anyone or any customers (he already has the money), and he can essentially put whatever he wants in the game without getting fired.  He may be criticized, sure, but he is in the catbird seat with respect to control.  It's like being a Renaissance artist with a benefactor who says "here's enough money for the rest of your life, paint whatever you want till you die."  This scenario is exceedingly uncommon.  I'm sure his primary goal is making the best possible game he can to make his mark in video gaming history.

I am excited for Star Citizen, but I'm much more academically interested in the organizational dynamics that occur due to this type of fundraising.  It turns all the laws of project management on their head when you have an unpredictable source of income that has no legal power over the developer.



     1900OopsJew certainly doesn't express his opinion in a mature fashion, but I don't think your criticism of him is really any better. Calling him pre-pubescent and also calling those who downvote you "kids" are both just attacking your "opponent" rather than making an actual counterargument. Gonna play the old school gamer card here for a bit.


I grew up on Metroid, the NES version.  We used to come home from school and all pile into a room, like 6 of us, and collectively play it.  Guys would try and draw the map as we went, marking paths and things on graph paper.  We had fucking books of save codes written down for various locations and power levels.

    JUSTIN BAILEY    
    ------ ------    

On Gameboy it was my go-to game.  The Spider Ball was revolutionary, seeing the advanced life stages of the Metroids was incredible.

When Super Metroid came out and I played it for the first time, seeing the old world from Metroid 1 and then having to pass through the original Mother Brain chamber... it was one of the best moments in gaming for me.

Then years later, I'm married, in my late 20s, and Prime 1 comes out for Gamecube and I hear its now 3D, I thought they would ruin it.  After having my heart broken over what they did to Link, I thought for sure they would butcher my beloved Samus.

But it was perfect.  Prime captured the mystery and adventure and raw FEEL of Super Metroid flawlessly.

I can't fucking wait for this download to finish so I can live it all over again. Why are you quoting new when they don't say they're new stages anywhere? Warning! Spoilers inside.  You're right. I don't even remember seeing a dinosaur in Alien! Just FYI, if you're in Australia you cannot buy it directly from the eShop website.  You will need to buy it using your WiiU console. Prepare to have your brain juiced! &gt;It would be more than acceptable and justifiable to censor or outright ban the title, because it has the capacity to offend certain individuals (let's say, for example, someone who had a parent who lived through the Holocaust).

How about no. At least some Books, Music, Paintings and Games MUST be made to offend people. With that intent alone. If people want ART, they should be prepared for Art they don't agree with existing. You'll buy it regardless. We all will. I would rather have a good non lego avengers game and good non lego Jurassic park game than a Lego variant of them. "These computers are actually mining bitcoin or just computing pi."
"Here you'll see we start off the bat with our barrel mechanics."

I'm not too sure about the game itself (not hot on the low poly -- would like a game like this in a more modern engine), but the commentary is pretty funny.
 The name is bad but it's not the main reason for not selling. Software droughts are the main reason. If that's all it was, I think we would see the vita doing much better. Sales of these things are much more complicated then that. No need to worry, they don't intend on bringing it to the west anyway, so its F2P status will not effect us at all -_- You don't get natural movement and reactions though if people can see from Third Person. yea this is probably the worst list for 2015 games i've seen... That's a horrible analogy. With Hatred, you're not hurting anyone by playing. It's your own private decision. With your analogy, you are stealing and directly hurting another human being. Didn't Lego used to have a "no gun" policy? Well that's a good start to things, yeah do they know that if Battlefront ends up like Battlefield that would be a bad thing. I don't want ten scopes for each weapon and 100 gadgets that no one uses. Be very careful with this title EA, do not f**k it up.     Wow that's a truly terrible list.

Witcher 3, No Man's Sky, The Division.

Sheesh. Its so true.  My wife's friend was over the other day while I was playing Smash. She saw the controller and was like "Wow, what's that? The screen is right on the controller...how cool!"  When I told her it was a Wii U, the first thing she says is "Ohh, so its an add-on for the Wii?"

*This is a woman who literally had a job doing web development in the games industry.* Nintendo really shit the bed when it came to marketing this thing.  Its unbelievable what a disservice they've done to a pretty decent system. the thing that is interesting is that when I am logged in there is no indication that the comments aren't there. Quality title is not the same as system seller. Nothing they had was a killer app with a lot of mainstream hype around it like Destiny, or Halo. Anyone know how it runs in Dolphin? I've been spoiled by running Wii games in 1080P


3570K/7870 HD &gt; GameCube 2.0.

^ *So much this.* And while I wish the Wii U was more popular, I'm kind of fine with this.  The Gamecube was my favorite Nintendo console until the Wii U came along. They also stated that they designed the Wii to be like an economic second-console, not to compete with Microsoft or Sony. Maybe sitting in the backseat wasn't a good way to keep relevant. I haven't been able to find anyone wanting to talk about how Japans inflationary monetary policies may be affecting,  or may one day affect,  the roughly 500,000 million yen Nintendo has put away. The devaluation of the yen is definitely helping them in the short term,  but I worry it could have negative effects down the road.  Polaris employee here and been in the MCN game for a bit. While you dont need to be in a network to monetize, for certain games you are going to get takedown notices if you do. 

People do make a decent living off Minecraft, Gmod and other games that let you monetize willy nilly but if you want to expand from that you are going to need to be in a network.

Also with Msoft the owners of Minecraft, there are a lot of people worried about what that is going to mean for Minecraft monetization  . With old Microsoft I would totally agree with you, but in the past few years, Microsoft has acknowledged that their monopoly will only get them so far. The open sourcing of .Net core shows they realised they were losing the enterprise server room to Java, the dropping of the Kinect shows they realised they were losing the living room to the PS4, Windows with Bing shows they realised they were losing the low end desktop to Linux. The list goes on.

I don't think it's impossible the Microsoft will give up on owning their own streaming product and partner with one of the products people actually use. Maybe Deezer? That would be the team up of the also rans. I always see copies of the trilogy in gamestop.  Been that way for a while. To be fair it's a pretty huge mistake. Cannibal corpse: the game.
 This game is trying so hard to ride the controversy circuit it's actually kind of adorable. "**HUMAN SCUM**" had me biting my tongue before the first twenty seconds were even over. Christ, could it get any less self-aware?

My only regret is that people blew up about it. I'd have much preferred to see something with this little imagination fail on its own merits. Yeah I'm gonna hook up a HDD for it.  It's taken longer than I expected to have something come along that persuaded me to do it.  

Unfortunately you can't store downloaded games on SD cards, it has to be something hooked up via USB and formatted by that specific Wii U...  Probably some kind of DRM reason... It's 40 bucks at game stop.  They always have at least three in stock.  I've seen it at multiple stores. I don't know about you, but seeing I needed to buy a map pack to play CoD online was a really shitty thing I thought we were boycotting EA?  Is it not in the main game? Since when?  I don't buy it. Most consoles don't have a good lineup at launch, and it's certainly not hurting the PS4 or XBOne. What were they going to do, release after the competition, once the competition already have a foothold, with a way less powerful console? People like to blame it on the name too, but I would argue that the Xbox 360 was just as unclear, and it did well. 

I think the truth is that the video game market has moved on and people just don't care about Nintendo like they used to. They've lost market share with every home console since the SNES except for the Wii, which was a huge fluke. I'm not even sure releasing a console with competitive hardware and a great 3rd part library would make a difference at this point. People would still probably prefer the MS/Sony exclusives. https://twitter.com/NintendoAmerica/status/560890146577723392 [**@NintendoAmerica**](https://twitter.com/NintendoAmerica/)

&gt; [2015-01-29 20:00:06 UTC](https://twitter.com/NintendoAmerica/status/560890146577723392)

&gt; Abe Lincoln &amp; his \#CodeNameSTEAM cohorts will battle aliens on 3/13, but you can get the demo in the \#3DS \#eShop now! http://Ninten.do/6015Ig03

----

^This ^message ^was ^created ^by ^a ^bot

[^[Contact ^creator]](http://www.reddit.com/message/compose/?to=jasie3k&amp;amp;subject=TweetsInCommentsBot)[^[Source ^code]](https://github.com/janpetryk/reddit-bot)
 Now if only I could download amiibos. Looks fun. Too bad it's a straight port, and not something that allows us to use something other than the Wiimote.

I think the only value of the MP:T is the hard copy...I'd much rather play the games on the Gamecube with a controller, or on the Dolphin emulator.

Granted MP3 is still going to require a Wiimote regardless...but it's also considered the weakest in the series, so I probably wouldn't be missing much anyway. Very true. The best example of that is MS bundling Word/Excel/PowerPoint with Windows 10; they realize people don't want to spend $100 each for every one of those services. You won't have the police knock at your door when you're playing Hatred, unlike when you're robbing someone. It's not just one of your principles that goes against that action, it's also the law. Graphics/power aren't everything. But let's not be delusional here... They certainly matter to some extent.  Why? most civilians just run away from you when violent, you normally only have to kill ones who attack you, and you can always just run away. 

The point is, the games main goal is not to kill civilians.   "Free" To this day Metroid Prime is still my favorite game ever. Everything about was absolutely perfect. Any word on if the planets like Mustafar, Mygeeto, Felucia etc. from the prequels will be in it?  I agree with you, DeeDoubs. They made a non-statement. Of *COURSE* they won't say it MIGHT happen. They're not going to promise without assurance that it will...

If MewTwo sells well enough, they sure as hell will look into it. Money speaks louder than anything. If people don't take the time to actually read the review instead of just blindly looking at the arbitrary score and then buying the game anyways, it's their own damn fault. A lot of game let you kill people, and they always give you a reason to do it. But do you kill people in games solely because of that reason the game gave you? NO! you kill people in games because it is fun. And Hatred is basically that without any story. That apparently make people sick. it is kinda sad.

The game has literally run out of stretch goals at this point, yet they continue to throw money at CR's wild promises Yeah, I got confused. My point still stands, though. That's not really game play. The graphics look good, but the game play doesn't. I don't think it's fun if it's not challenging. The "Super" worked for the NES &gt; SNES  but when you put it on the 3DS XL it just sounds tacky. I don't mind the "New" branding as it makes it pretty clear it's a new version of the 3DS, not a brand new system.

Also I think a lot of the people saying they should have done Super this or Super that are just being nostalgic. Nintendo wants to appeal to more than just young boys, which is what the whole "Super" thing was designed to appeal to. 

There's been a lot of backseat driving with Nintendo's naming lately. But it's all the same people who lambasted the original Wii name which ended up selling 100 million consoles.

The takeaway is that who the fuck knows what a good name is? If they had called it The Wii 2 it may have sold just as bad, or it may have sold double. Who the fuck knows? 

It's much more likely that a huge amount of people who bought the original Wii moved on to iPads and other tablets. They have a Wii collecting dust in their closet or under their TV while their kids are content watching netflix and playing Angry Birds on an iPad. Why on earth would they buy a Wii U? They legitimately could have removed the VO and have ended up with a better trailer.

Probably the worst first shot they could have picked though. Never been more quickly repelled by a protagonist than that.  The real question is why are they using any information from steam at all, when what they should be doing is just putting uniformly named save data in your user directory. if they think this is easy.. they could create a curator list for their readers.. and they can recomend well made games. I hate the fact you need to use them. My vision issues and the setup of my room mean I can't play them with it unless I sit side on to my TV and fuck my neck:(

 Apparently the latest flagship phones aren't terribly far off from the wiiu in terms of power. I could see a handheld that rivals it at an affordable price within a few years happening.  It should be moving a million units a month then since it has the strongest library of any next gen system Are you telling me /r/games logic makes no sense? Here's a comparison with Super Mario Galaxy, you can draw your own conclusions


http://youtu.be/3oK8wvBucj4 [Here's an episode from Extra Credits' Design Club series about the Blue shell from Mario Kart](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZH2wGpEZVgE&amp;list=PLhyKYa0YJ_5CH8BA8XcqReieXLFf4afI0). It's an interesting take on how the Blue Shell is good design. Of course, issues still arise with more competitive play when the most important thing is the best player winning the game. This is a conscious choice by Nintendo, choosing more exciting, hectic party-style play versus more competitive play.

This is actually a more general design idea of general fun vs. competitive skill. A good example of this kind of distinction is another Nintendo franchise-the Super Smash Bros. series. For those who aren't aware, Melee is widely regarded as the most competitive friendly option and is still played massively as a competitive fighting game. However, certain techniques and features have been changed in Brawl and 4 that were less competitive-friendly, but more suited for less serious party play. A lot of people were upset by this direction, but it also makes a lot of sense for Nintendo from a business perspective. The vast majority of Smash players play without any knowledge of the competitive scene at all.  After Remember me, Dontnod definitely stuck on my radar as a developer to watch.  Since it looks like they'll be expanding on the idea of Memory Remixing, this game might actually end up being really good.

As long as the story isn't cheesy as hell, I think I'm really going to like this game. I love what this game is doing, it's really thrown the community a curveball. What if a top down shooter wasn't about aliens, zombies or nazis? 

They barely had to do any advertising and it's gonna break the bank.  Effort isn't the problem. Sales are. Nintendo are very adamant about protecting their games (same reason they take a Blizzard-esque approach to prices)

We MIGHT see the Wii version hit the eshop a few months after X comes out, but more likely they are saving it for the next generation of consoles. Can't run the risk of people buying a time sink RPG and not buying the other time sink RPG. There is another: microtransactions do you know if music was reused between episodes? I recognized some of the music in that first scene as having beeen sampled in the MF DOOM album MM... FOOD.
 &gt; And I have no problem with gay anything.

Clearly, you do.
To me it seems that you are in the closet yourself, either that or you are a 12 year old kid who is uncomfortable with their sexuality. You don't buy consoles for the graphics, you buy for the exclusives. It doesn't matter how much better the new star fox would look on the PS4, because it will never run on the PS4.

If graphics are a priority, the number 1 thing to look for, buy a PC. Exclusives should be the most important thing when buying a console, since that is what is unique about them. i dont hope for that at all, sorry! :(  Not a good idea for balancing, perhaps they could add it as an option in dedicated servers.  You ever actually play them? No you haven't because you wouldn't be saying that so case closed.  No shit. We've known this for *years.* Forbes is such a joke. No worries! I think it's a valid concern, but my concern goes up dramatically if Overkill is involved. I haven't played enough Killing Floor to really have a strong opinion on the developer but the little information I have read seemed generally positive. they'll have to wait a long time before that's economically and thermally feasible. By then you'll already be asking for the next gen of tech. yes, but legal repercussions aren't the reasona that I (and hopefully many others) hold principles such as that one. Since the game came out. Friend Request, where you put a bomb in the phone of an innocent guy and then blow it up while watching the incident on tv, is an example. It wouldn't have been much different.  eh the Vita is about as powerful as a PS3 and only costs $200 now. I think in 2016 or 2017 Nintendo can put out a $300 system that will be quite comparable to a Wii U if they wanted.

But really it doesn't need to be as powerful as Wii U. For me it just needs to be able to run games on a TV and not look like a mobile game blown-up. It would sell on being the single device that had a ton of (all) great Nintendo games on it, not on being a device that gets the latest and greatest 3rd party stuff (although ideally it would be easy for lower-end indies to port their games to it). 

I look at it more like just the newest handheld from Nintendo, but then you also get to play the next full-scale 3D Zelda/Mario/etc on it  and plug it into your TV if you want and it looks/runs/plays great.  I absolutely can expected the same experience, and when that doesn't come I'll actually stop myself from buying the game unlike you people  Earthbound was fantastic because it was so simple. Playing it now is like playing an even simpler version of Pokemon Red. Except it's way funnier and fun to explore. I could see the Ouya maybe being good for growing markets and countries that have a growing middle class (China, India, etc.) but at least in the US. I don't think it really had a shot. Well, that's 10 Million down the drain.  I'm honestly surprised that the company still exists. There are still way bigger factors than the name like non existent marketing, old school policies, and lack of third party support. "I'm studying photography" *Pulls out a Polaroid*

Looks good.. The demo will enjoy this.. I can attest to the quality of these.  I get the adamant refusal of gameplay / real life experience interplay on this sub - it's mostly well warranted, and mowing down people in GTA obviously doesn't attribute (at least no significantly) to human inclinations. 

That said... the whole idea of this game is irksome. Aside from being marketed by its own edginess in a half self-aware, half obnoxious manner, the whole concept is regrettable. It's a game about envy (even fuelled by it) that, from the trailers, doesn't really *want* to explore envy or any emotive undercurrents.

So you're left with a twin-stick shooter with interesting thematic overlays that aren't even remotely relatable with a shitty protagonist and gameplay that'll run dry in minutes. 

Dull.   can you give a source of when they said this? It's worth noting that while yes, it's a slow selling console - their revenue per customer is going up. Between Amiibo, Virtual Console, and digital distribution, they are adding a lot of additional revenue to diehard fans. I know personally that I jumped on Super Mario Galaxy 2 and Metroid Trilogy for $10 bucks each, which I already bought both in the past. My brother is buying Amiibo like crazy. 

Of course it would be far better if the console sold more, but I am not as worried about Nintendo as others are. Sure you spend a lot on an iPhone but most people don't spend that much on apps... Nintendo is getting some people to drop hundreds per year after buying a Wii U. Just because you don't like the way a character plays doesn't mean it isn't unique. There are 50 characters, all of them aren't going to be great, but most of them can be different. That's what Duck Hunt and Sonic represent. I still don't understand what the purpose of the ouya is, could you explain? You know what. I'm actually impressed. Best troll I've seen in a while. Good job.  nah r/games removes comments that are not of "quality"  I don't understand your point. Nintendo didn't stock the stores, it wasn't their choice to put those there. There are plenty of crappy third party accessories for consoles. It is. what i want to know is if the Co-Op will be throughout the whole entire game or if it will just be the split up, couple room "stages" like the first revelations. i bought the first thinking that it would be full on co-op and was slightly disappointed. still a pretty sweet game either way though. I don't own a major corporation or anything but Nintendo is/has done everything wrong and I know best for the company with 0 statistical data to backup my claims against a company whose been around longer than I've existed. Just make me the CEO at Nintendo and they'll be bazillionaires in no time. steamboxes are little more than custom build mATX based PCs running a Linux branch....

they will be DOA What's the difference? Echoes is one of the best games of all time. I think you're misremembering how ugly early PS2 games were. Just don't give it a Battlefield-sized buggy launch and we're good, EA. Given that it's an impossible expectation, I guess you already have your decision made for you. Meanwhile, I'll be having fun playing Battlefront. I played Ace Attorney after finishing 999/VLR. I had always wanted to play the games but for some reason never really got into them, and I have to say they're amazing. The second game is a bit of a drag (I've finished the first 2 and am playing the third Phoenix Wright game) but the characters are all so adorable (mostly) and even if I see where a plot is going, the game still manages to twist me. Smash was always different from Mario Kart. It always gave you options, let you turn off/on each and every item to play it how you will. It also had a great hidden depth to it that Mario Kart would not have had, which made it suited for competitive play should you want that. 

I think they did the series a huge disservice by cutting that fanbase out. There's a big demand for it and a lot of money to be made. Look at how huge games like LoL and Starcraft got, aided by their competitive scenes. And it doesn't infringe on the more casual fans either, as people who played Smash64 and melee can attest to. 

I don't think it was a good business decision at all. Hell Nintendo is trying to edge in on the competitive scene right now, realizing their folly. 

If they re-released melee right now, it would sell well. The same cannot be said about Brawl.  Pretty sure you were forced to kill innocent people in one of the new CoD games too, but I didn't see any controversy in the news like this game has already generated.

I await delicious tears, and hope its actually fun. I might buy it. Not stealing is a principal you have because you don't want to go to jail or because you care at least a little bit about other people, in which case you may like money but you don't like stealing. Buying a violent video game only effects you and it would be silly to avoid it simply out of principle that says virtual video game people would get hurt. 

If you don't see the difference then you should probably not buy violent video games.  Why? Honestly.

Their business model was a scam and destined to fail to begin with... [every single year they were going to put a new unit out](http://www.engadget.com/2013/02/07/ouya-annual/), and charge people to upgrade. Even if you owned the previous years model, you'd still be charged full price. That's $99 to $129 every single year. 

Call me cynical but, that's just dumb marketing.  I've actually thought about this idea before, and I think Sony is in the best place to do something like that.  They're already working with the Vita/PS4 connectivity thing, and since they're deep in the hardware industry, they can fit their future tv models to work with the whole wireless upload thing. I personally believe playing VLR without finishing 999 first is doing yourself a massive disservice. I'm sorry, goddess picks random Greek soldier, informs him that the gods have turned on humanity and that it is on him alone to scale Olympus and defeat the gods...

Isn't that essentially God of War? I'm seeing a lot of reviews out right now Watching some trailers for Spec ops: The line you can see that they did generic action shooter marketing for it. [Just watch the launch trailer](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kIoJnMT3yUI). So it's not impossible that Hatred would do something similar. And I really hope they do, we need more games like Spec Ops: The line that brings some commentary and contrast to the gaming "meta".  Yes, obviously the decision to rob/hurt someone directly leads to much more obvious negative consequences, but the point I am making is that a concern for one's principles should always come before a concern for one's pleasure. See you're talking about context again, the examples are irrelevant. I could be talking about hopscotch, but if make up a context of hopping on babies to crush their skulls and turned that into a video game people would go nuts, but it's still essentially hopscotch Honestly I think if they had called it "The New Wii" it would have been so, so much better off. The Wii was such a big hit with the "mass appeal" audience - you're average soccer mom or college kid would have a much easier time understanding what it was. And any news outlet would have a much easier time digesting what it is and turning it into a headline. "Nintendo announces a new Wii console. It does HD graphics for the first time and has a brand new HD mario game." That's all you need to know. 

Instead you get people thinking an add-on or making jokes about a Nintendo University. *sigh*

But this is what being a Nintendo fan is like. Great highs and great lows. The irony is that I've enjoyed the Wii U much more consistently than I've enjoyed the original Wii. Those visor effects alone made the world sooo sooo vivid and immersive. That feel when water runs down from it for the very first time. Wow. why does it look like a shitty movie trailer with the graphics of a ps2 game? Raise your hands if this is the first you've ever heard of the game "Kayne Quest 3030"...

\*Raises hand.* The "weakest" in a series that's still really great. I *think* if Grim Fandango does well Double Fine will probably look at bringing other games back too, stuff like *Day of the Tentacle.* Nothing's more satisfying than slaughtering enemies by the hundreds perhaps there's is more depth to it all (can't figure to what end), though as SC does present it, it really sounds like EVE in that sense and that isn't all that bad. It has worked quite well for the last 12 years It looks fun. Actually, really fun. Sure, it clearly is running on the Battlefield engine, but I think the theme, vehicles, maps and guns warrant it not being a glorified mod anymore. And even if it is a glorified mod, it looks like a damn good one. I like it. nope its rebels and empire only for now  Fuck that bullshit.  I actually learned to love the GC controller over it, and due to the ability to lock on, it felt really tight. I'm somewhat worried that with Wiimote controls, this is going to feel somewhat wonky... the maps in bf4 are huge and entirely destructable though, making them a way better bang for your buck. this game seems like garbage, and will only do well due to piggybacking off of such a strong series like battlefield. i thought i was going to be sick after the beta, it just has nothing unique or fun going for it imo People complain often about Mario Kart's rubber banding but I think the singleplayer would be far too easy without it. 

I already, even with the rubber banding, can win most 150cc/mirror matches by half a lap over the second place. Without rubber banding I'd be lapping them all. Any seasoned MK player would. 

I think the point of rubber banding in the game is to make sure you're playing as perfectly as possible. To make the optimal decision everytime in regards to item strategy and shortcuts, and to punish you hard for your mistakes. 

I never feel cheated by the AI. I don't really feel like they're supposed to be competition either. They're just kinda there so I don't slip up. 

And honestly the game isn't *that* random that you won't be winning consistently against the AI once you learn the game and the maps. Getting hit by a blue shell is nbd when you're always half a map ahead of everyone else. 

Multiplayer is a different thing altogether though. I would call that line of thinking what separates good people and not so good people. That by so many accessories being offered for the Wii, 3rd party or otherwise, it's easy to see why consumers might have thought the Wii U was an accessory instead of an independent console. 

Yes there are plenty of crap accessories for each console, but the Wii had lots of gimmicked ones...rowing machine, fit board, sporting equipment, etc.

So that's where Nintendo failed. Making it clear in their marketing that the Wii U wasn't that. What part about "fuck off" can you not understand? C'mon genius, it's not that hard. You get into an argument about something you don't know about then act like a shit when you run out of things to say. Reminds me of my niece. Seriously just go away, stop talking to me dummy. Thank you!  I'm imagining an amiibo base with a hologram projector. The cheap version just has an LCD screen. You pay $1-$2 per character on the eShop and store all of the data in the one base. It needs its own battery, but I think it's worth it.

I'm giving you this one free, Nintendo. Make it happen. You missed my point, the game hasn't changed. in that example a first person shoot, but you change the context and you get different reactions to it. Different contexts may offend some others won't. 

Thats all I'm saying, OP was saying he doesn't the uproar. 

You'd have to autistic to not understand why this CONTEXT in a top down shooter game would offend some people. I hope the Heroes and Hunt modes come back as well FPS makes me think of Battlefront all the way. Thing is, with the blue shell, a better method all ready exists in Mario kart in the lightning bolt. It bunches up the pack and usually doesn't screw the leader over as much due to it being universal. Even better than that is the quake from wipeout, which hits everyone ahead of you, but can be evaded using a shield, being in the air, or outrunning it. It's not as frustrating and skilled players can work around it - if you are ludicrously fast the quake will never hit you, for example.

The blue shell is such a blunt and archaic way to rubber band, there are better and more refined methods. No, but if steam decides to pull the game, it's within their right and I would support the action. The developer won't be responsible for what people do after playing the game, but distributors can step in and prevent it if they think it necessary. gamesradar 

(view next slide)  
a

 (view next slide) 

website 

(view next slide)  

of 

(view next slide)

 Slideshows. 3rd person was the extra option though. There's like 6 maps for vanilla bf3 and 4. it was mildly popular on reddit when it came out. Only problem I had was that I didn't like that they had voice actors. I *loved* every time they had to change the story up because they didn't do dialogue in the other Lego games. It gave it a lot of comedic value that didn't make me feel like I was trying to play a serious Lego game. Probably won't be long until someone figures out how to backup amiibo's data to NFC-enabled phones BF2 was actually made to be a first person game. Or Super Metroid? Or the original?

idk there are a lot of great creative people in the world who could "get" metroid PS4. Are you playing coop or solo? Besides coop camera issues, the real problems are  things like getting stuck in a spot or respawn-dying loops &gt;Smash was always different from Mario Kart. It always gave you options, let you turn off/on each and every item to play it how you will. It also had a great hidden depth to it that Mario Kart would not have had, which made it suited for competitive play should you want that.

I wasn't saying they were similar. They just both relate to the topic of competitive vs. party design.

&gt;I think they did the series a huge disservice by cutting that fanbase out. There's a big demand for it and a lot of money to be made. Look at how huge games like LoL and Starcraft got, aided by their competitive scenes. And it doesn't infringe on the more casual fans either, as people who played Smash64 and melee can attest to.

People played Smash 64 and Melee because the idea was novel. Brawl and 4 weren't out yet. People would still buy a Melee-style more competitive Smash game, but it wouldn't be as well received by the general community. It's not just techniques like wavedashing that changed, it was the general tempo of the game. People would have a hard time adjusting to such a fast-paced Smash that was so punishing. 

&gt;I don't think it was a good business decision at all. Hell Nintendo is trying to edge in on the competitive scene right now, realizing their folly.

&gt;If they re-released melee right now, it would sell well. The same cannot be said about Brawl.

This is untrue. Firstly, Brawl sold [almost 5 million more copies than Melee did](http://vgsales.wikia.com/wiki/Super_Smash_Bros.). Second of all, you're looking at this from the reddit echochamber. The vast, vast majority of people who play smash don't know that the competitive scene even exists, or has very little knowledge of it.

From what I could find, the concurrent viewer record for Smash Tournaments on twitch is somewhere around 250k. I would be surprised if more than 750k smash players actively followed the competitive scene. When melee has 7.41 million sales? That's just over 10%, and I think 750k is a fairly generous estimate. 

If they re-released melee, the majority of sales for it would be because A. people will buy anything with Mario on it, especially with the Super Smash Bros. title, and B. nostalgia. The amount of people who would buy it for the competitive aspects is, relative to the amount of people would buy a new Smash with new features and fighters, very small. How far did its' emulator go, it went to N64 and Nintendo DS right?

I feel like its' lineup wasn't up to snuff and for some reason people wanted it more as an emulator. I never really understood this because if someone cares about emulation, they can get a gamepad, their computer, and an HDMI and play games on their couch on the TV. The amount of games that you could get a takedown notice for is less than 0.01% of all games in the world. It can of course happen and it does happen (thankfully very rarely), but if you're careful and do your research, you can be 100% sure that it won't happen to you. If you did receive a takedown notice you would be better off with a network, that I agree with.

Also, there's absolutely zero reason to be worried about Minecraft monetization since Microsoft clarified their stance on that months ago, and they also recently revealed their monetization policy on other Microsoft-published games. 

By the way, I run a channel of my own and I am partnered with a network, so don't think I'm one of those people who think all networks are pure evil. I just think that partnering out of fear is the wrong choice, especially considering the differences between affiliates and managed partners. The MGS: Twin Snakes is also a pretty good looking game in my opinion.  And of course, it's also a remake of a classic. True dat I spent over 90+ on this game and i didn't want to finish until i explore more and my wii controller died, didn't bought one till now &gt;&lt;" i think im gonna replay on emulator 1080p I guess I'll give it another go, curious to see how release day is going to be though.  The bf4 beta was fine and release day was just beyond terrible. Like it matters. PC Dominates in China with their PC Bang/Cafes that look freaking amazing Day of the Tentacle was already announced. There's missions that involve killing innocents.   
   
GTA had one where you had to use a city bus to capture civilians and lead them to a meat factory where they got killed and turned into sausages. Then you had to deliver the sausages. *sigh* Yes, obviously I know that there is an important difference in the implications and outcomes of playing Hatred vs stealing or hurting someone. The point of the analogy was to illustrate that the relationship between principles and pleasure is not 'pleasure first,' as uncle_moe suggests. Instead, I'm showing that principles should, and indeed often do, predetermine acts separate from an analysis of potential pleasure. Indeed, that's one of the more interesting things about the way Nintendo's business strategy goes. They always try to bulwark themselves against potential failures by having that huge war chest, but if Japanese monetary policy fails to keep inflation in check, then what happens? Just like those idiots who came out with the iPhone 4 then the iPhone 4s what a dumb concept that caused sales to flop. The lightning bolt only bunches up the pack in specific circumstances. The lighting bolt has to be used by someone fairly far up in the pack, or only a few people will advance from it and things won't change that much. It also is more likely to bunch people up in the back of the race, since those are the people the non-shrunk racers will reach first. On the other hand, the blue shell directly slows down the front of the pack, where the competition is more fierce, because people care a lot more about 1st vs. 2nd vs. 3rd place, as opposed to 6th vs. 7th vs. 8th. That was a facetious and nonsense example, but did you stop to consider that pacman is a nonsense game as well . Anyway the point is you could make up a context of pure fantasy, some fantasy would offend some won't. 

I.e. Pacman is a unicorn and ghosts are flowers vs Pacman is a nude old man chasing and ghosts are nude kids. The game hasn't changed but the context has changed the way people see it. I just started as well. Probably about 5-6 hours in and am enjoying it.  The thing that brings it down for me is it's so hard to compare gear and stats. Anyone have something I may be missing here?  I never seem to be able to tell if something is really an upgrade for how it would effect multiple stats. I don't think they've *ever* said they want their stuff to work like an 'economic second-console', that just doesn't make any PR sense whatsoever.

They have said for decades that they don't see themselves in competition with Sony/Microsoft, and their hardware design, price points, and business reflect that very much. I suppose you could read into it in the aforementioned way, but I think they just see themselves operating in a different field to the other two. Their biggest competition is Apple by far.

Maybe the lack of success the Wii U has had might give them a reason to change their approach and tackle the Sony/Microsoft market a bit heavier, but that different approach is also the whole reason the Wii did so well so I'm really not sure where they'll choose their next console to sit. So, in your mind, having the stage support 8 players when it previously only supported 4, AND having the hazards behave differently, isn't enough to count as "new?"

This is seriously semantic quibbling.  There are 316 MB of data that were not part of the game before, that neither you nor your Wii-U have ever seen before.  By pretty much any reasonable definition, that's "new data".  That data allows you to play in levels that are very similar to, but not identical to, previous levels.  By most definitions, those are "new" levels.

There's nothing dishonest or misleading about calling them "new levels".  People just like to complain. Yep. Battlefront 1&amp;2 had very enjoyable singleplayer experiences (even though the AI was bad). 

I hope DICE realizes this and doesn't make a carbon copy of BF4.

It would be inexcusable if they fucked up that badly. Even worse than BF4 release. Glad the response seems pretty positive for them. My fear was that the rewind mechanic wouldn't fit or would diminish the story. GS mentioned that it could diminish the story for you, but even then their review was generally positive regardless, and a 7 in spite of that is still good. And if that's the worst the game could feel to me, then that's still pretty good. Can't wait 'til it unlocks and I can try it for myself. On PC you have the choice of KB+M or literally any controller you'd like. Nintendo's fault is that they didn't really study the trend and try to make new ones.

Wii Sports and Resort were great hits, but where were the realistic sports simulators that could be played at parties, and the epic swordfighting games? Wii Play was no slouch in sales either, but why did Nintendo only have one try with actually making a pointer-based shooting game? I honestly wouldn't be surprised if Splatoon ditched pointer control altogether, but it would have been utterly awesome with it.

The Wii wasn't a bad idea on its own, and it could have been the console that united "hardcore" and "casual" interests. Nintendo just has a tendency to look at their successes on a very superficial level and to not really dig deep ("Why was NSMB so successful? Because it had 8 worlds with this particular combination of themes, plus wah wah music and very little production values... let's never deviate from this.") I feel like it's a huge mistake that you only have one primary weapon that you use all the time. They mention pistols and rocket launchers but apparently they will work more like power-ups that will expire once you use up their ammo. I *really* don't get why it is thought to be a good thing to be stuck with the same weapon the entire time. Another rogue-like FPS, Tower of Guns did the same thing and it was boring! Remember Doom? Remember how you could carry 8 weapons?? the gamo would look great at a higher resolution, plus I wish i could use my pro controller Welcome to the console mindset I still miss BF1942 Core Play.

Bf2 was Solid.
Now its devolved into a release a game every year instead of innovating.

Maybe Employees from Dice separating from EA would be a good thing. Have gamers collectively scrubbed the existence of the Virtual Boy from their memories? I think it did worse than the Wii-U. Or studied WWII apparently It will probably go something like this.

Game will make a huge profit, players will complain about how buggy it is at launch and how bad it is, say they're not going to buy EA games anymore, and then purchase the next big title EA releases. 

At least that is how it always turns out.  [The cards](http://www.polygon.com/2014/11/6/7168299/nintendo-amiibo-animal-crossing-card-games-smaller-toys) will probably be easier to find. Everybody has the option to use it. Therefore, it is not in any way imbalanced. &gt;The market also loves dlc, free to play, and annual franchises.

You'd think that these were things that were introduced to squeeze more money out of a game, rather than something that was explicitly in demand. so, how do i get just the tshirt? I'm not going to really respond to your statement about the "CoD crowd" - it's an unsuppported generalization that doesn't even consider that there is a much bigger market share to console gaming outside of CoD (and the franchise's sales were down 20% this year).

But the "if it was about power they would all play on PC" argument really chaps my ass. Gaming computers are multi-faceted machines that require more maintenance, cash, and don't have the same portable nature that a laptop does.  This makes them unpractical for the  vast majority of people who can't afford to spend upwards of $650 on a tower (let alone the accessories like a mouse, keyboard, and monitor). Uh... No? Battlefront defaults to 3rd person. First person is hidden away. really? it was defaulted to third person on ps2 Better marketing wouldn't of helped, that market quickly ditched the Wii for Ipad games. The problem wasn't the name they chose. The problem was that Nintendo focused on a casual audience for their game and isolated their core players. The core players are the early adopters who get the word out about how great a system is and get other people to buy it. Who else would know the difference between a Wii and a WiiU except your early adopters who do their research? I recently recommended a WiiU to a friend who was going to get a Wii. I told him how he cold enjoy all the Wii games while still getting the latest games on a WiiU. 3d Hotline Miami? Sign me up. Uh, I absolutely factor in graphics when buying consoles. To me, exclusives are a bonus. Plus, it's not like Microsoft or Sony are exactly lacking in the exclusive AAA category... Mario doesn't exist in a vacuum.  Not everyone gives a shit about Zelda.  They're still pretty good and definitely entertaining. I think they've just lost some of their charm with the addition of voice acting.  &gt;  $500,000 funding target on Kickstarter

This was never a thing. The Kickstarter goal was 2 million and existed to prove to investors that there was high interest in the game. The budget was always higher than that. 

When the Kickstarter enormously exceeded that goal, Chris Roberts decided to drop the investors and go fully crowdfunded. I believe they stated the original budget for the full game was something like 20-25 million. They've greatly expanded the game since then, and estimate about 100 million in funding through before the release, 100% of which will be invested into the game. Thanks!  Not sure whether or not they confirmed it'll be a linear story or not. If it's just open world explore, blow shit up, and kill people I can see it having a good amount of playability. I'm starting to think that it's not going to happen, sadly.  &gt; This game is not doing what gamers want, it's doing what you want,
What is that even supposed to mean?
 Okay this looks cool but right now there isn't enough contrast between the weapons / environments / and enemies. Some of the enemies were just straight up grey and blended right into the environment. Contrast, folks! Even in the few games that do motion control right, they're just a pita. I don't want to keep around two extra controllers that must be played from directly in front of my television. I don't want to calibrate that fucking bar. &gt;"In short, Star Citizen far exceeded any and all expectations we could have had about it, and Chris Roberts has succeeded in delivering what no one thought was possible. If a game deserved the title of 'Best Game Ever Made,' it would be Star Citizen.

&gt; 7.8" Are you jokes right now. Steam is going to take my money. Thank you for pointing this out. Also some bosses in MP2 were nerfed in the Trilogy version so that could be part of what you're experiencing. It evened out the difficulty very smoothly when it was a bit bumpy before. There is also less of a focus on 1 to 1 balance and squad gameplay.

Also ammo/heal bots spread around the maps (there is less focus on medics) makes it feel a lot more arcady than Battlefield usually is. The of the game is nice: grey-washed with hints of color from the fire and explosions. The physics look nice, the destructible environments look nice, the character model is kinda shitty with that ridiculous hair....I kinda like it. &gt;Zelda, as far as has been revealed so far, is going to be built around the overworld, much like the very first one, where you have to explore and make discoveries to make progress. There is a gameplay video with a couple of developers out there that expresses this.

To be honest, part of me is afraid of "Green Great Sea With Trees". I don't trust Aonuma to fully grasp the appeal of a large open world beyond a superficial "hey you can go in any direction here you go", just like he didn't fully grasp the appeal of sailing on the sea, or flying in the air, or horseback combat, beyond a "superficial" point of view.
 &gt;It's not just techniques like wavedashing that changed, it was the general tempo of the game. People would have a hard time adjusting to such a fast-paced Smash that was so punishing. 

What? People had already played melee. Why would they have trouble with this? 

&gt;This is untrue. Firstly, Brawl sold almost 5 million more copies than Melee did

It was on a different console, with a much higher install base. It was a highly anticipated title, coming off of melee. Smash4 has sold much less, due to the lower install base of the WiiU

If you compare the install base to copies sold, melee comes out on top. 

&gt;From what I could find, the concurrent viewer record for Smash Tournaments on twitch is somewhere around 250k. I would be surprised if more than 750k smash players actively followed the competitive scene. When melee has 7.41 million sales? That's just over 10%, and I think 750k is a fairly generous estimate. 

750k is a lot of people! Keep in mind that Nintendo has started to realize that they're better off providing products for their 'hardcore' audience and this one is just that. 

And remember, this community was formed from the grassroots up. For a *14 year old game*. And it's growing. There are teens in my city who weren't even born when melee released, coming to tourneys. 

Can you imagine if Nintendo kept the competitive elements intact for Brawl and smash4? It would be several times larger. 

&gt;If they re-released melee, the majority of sales for it would be because A. people will buy anything with Mario on it, especially with the Super Smash Bros. title, and B. nostalgia. The amount of people who would buy it for the competitive aspects is, relative to the amount of people would buy a new Smash with new features and fighters, very small.

A lot of people really want retail copies of melee just for competitive play and more. Lots of people I know don't even have one and play a pirated version on Wii. Copies on ebay sell for $50+ still. 

Yeah, a Smash with new characters will sell better than an old game. But I wasn't talking about that, I was comparing Brawl and Melee. The latter would sell more than the former if re-released now, I can promise you that.  Defaults to first person everytime I play it. Must be a console thing. I really want to play it, I love Yakuza, but I don't have a PS3 any more :( That money is only going to useful if its actually used. I'm a big fan of saving (not that I'm very good at it),  but Abe pushing inflation isn't exactly a surprise. I just think Nintendo is too slow a company. They know that money is losing value,  but they aren't able to act fast enough to put it out there,  and they aren't willing to take the risks. Right now,  that money is just a tattered security blanket that prevents Nintendo from acting with urgency. 

Change is hard. Changing a culture is even harder. It needs to happen though. Nintendo is at the point where the year they return to profit may still see them with less resources than before. That can't go on forever. Even if Nintendo can survive off their reserves,  the likely situation there is the reserves will get lower as the costs of a real turn around get higher. I just don't see there being a point where all of a sudden things get easy for Nintendo,  no matter how long they wait.  defaulted to first person on PC. My refurbished wiimote/nunchuck from Nintendo just came in earlier this week so I'm ready. As a new Wii U owner, it's awesome being able to play these and Galaxy 2 (and hopefully more). Even with shitty motion controls. Is there any difference between the Wii trilogy and the digital WiiU one?  WiiDS Thank god. I fucking loved the first two. Some of my favorite childhood memories. I cannot fucking wait for 3. It's going to be like Elite Dangerous is now. The stock ships suck. What makes them good is spending time and in game credits to outfit them with the better gear. This will be more expensive than acquiring the ship is, in addition to costing time as these components will likely be scattered through the galaxy in different areas. &gt;thinking they are making some stance against SJW when all they are really doing is lining the devs pockets by falling for their marketing tactic.

Ahh, gotta love the free market. It's like kids and those Che Guevara shirts, you're making a stance against some ideal, and directly contradicting it with a mass-produced shirt on your back. Nah, didn't really stop any of Nintendo's handhelds. I'm a 47 year-old rich, entrepreneur with a lovely wife and 3 adopted African children. Speak for yourself dude. That was an awesome mission. This submission has been automatically removed because it is one paragraph long or shorter. 

Your thread may need more detail or breaks our rules for being too specific (such as "which of these two games should I buy?") or too general (such as "what is the best PC game"). If your thread was asking for suggestions about what games to get, /r/gamingsuggestions, /r/ShouldIbuythisgame, or /r/askgames would be better places to ask.

If you think that your post was unjustly removed, please send us a [message](http://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2FGames)."


*[I am a bot](/r/AutoModerator/comments/q11pu/what_is_automoderator/), and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2FGames) if you have any questions or concerns.* oh yeah....that's weird. I have it for pc and ps2. never noticed it cause o just run through settings before I ever start a game, not noticing what the default is You're going to be waiting another century on top of the other century for the original question bud. That's how shadowbanning works. It essentially forces all your posts to be filtered, so it looks like they appear to you, but they won't appear to anyone else (except mods). Battery technology hasn't improved in a very, very long time. I don't know what you mean by "so many next gen games are coming in at 720" - maybe on Nintendo, but I think the ONLY game running at 720p on PS4 is battlefield 4. [The rest are 1080p and 30 or 60fps...](http://www.ign.com/wikis/xbox-one/PS4_vs._Xbox_One_Native_Resolutions_and_Framerates) 

Now, I understand your point. There is little reason to buy a PS4 or Xbox as a PC gamer because most those games come out on your hardware. This is pretty obvious. But let's not get wrapped up in a circlejerk and say that Nintendo is the ONLY gaming company who can make a game look good without "beefy hardware." 

 Do I have to play it with the Wiimote? I don't think you realize how rabid the fanbase can be. Well let's be fair, you were tricked into doing that, even Michael is visibly shucked and upset that it happened. I remember shitting myself, I didn't expect it.  I'll see you at the end of the year bitching cus you gave ea your money once again :)  Never said they were kill apps, but they're all pretty good and have an 80+ rating on metacritic except maybe ghosts. I'm sorry - ymmv? Try playing that shit high. Ah, I never played GTA2. 

Still, it's cherry picking, most of your time is spent driving around and killing gangsters.  I think Nintendo has gone on record saying they wanted to make this game complete and not release paid DLC for it.  MewTwo technically doesn't count. I don't really think it has to do with the idea of being able to kill civilians but rather the context and intention.

As much as GTA is striving for "realism" it's still pretty arcade-y and goofy. You can call it "dark humor" or whatever. The developers aren't intending to appeal to serial killers or murderers, even though killing is a large portion of their game. 

Remember games like Rampage? That had "civilian killing" but clearly the context made it "okay" (for lack of a better term).

Hatred is clearly marketing and advertising their game as some sort of "civilian killing simulator". The appeal seems to be that you can murder civilians and they will react realistically so you can be cruel. Admittedly, the gameplay/mechanics does look pretty good, but the context definitely changes what the game is about.

For example, if Nintendo made this game they could reskin into one of their IPs (or make up a goofy new one). Imagine if the main character was DK and Crew with their goofy fruit guns knocking out Kremlings who have goofy death animations and fall over and disappear. With the same mechanics (and personally I really enjoy Nintendo's art style) it would be pretty damn fun and boils down to the same game but it would get an E rating for sure.



Basically, context/intention matters. Nah, I'm good. It was printed in an older Nintendo Power issue. I don't feel like sifting through crates to find it, but it also made the example that the Wii was designed to be like an affordable, economic car.

It wasn't very flattering. Honestly the only thing stopping me is the lack of Gamepad/Pro-controller support. I understand that it would have been a major pain in the ass to add in controller support, since the original trilogy didn't have classic controller support, but I don't even have the sensor bar for my WiiU plugged in. Don't really need it.

Since I already have the Wii trilogy, I'm only going to play it on my Wii that has the sensor bar plugged in, there's not much benefit to getting the digital version. For those who haven't been able to find a copy of the trilogy though, this is an amazing deal. It's still really cheesy.  Didn't someone come out and say it will be released when the DVD does? its easy just do fog of war like LoL or Dota. The map is only revealed through line of sight by you or friendly units. Camera position has no effect  I believe it says that the new game is based on both of the most recent Avengers movies so you just might get all the characters you mentioned as they are in the new movie. It got so much acclaim.  I finally broke down and bought it over the Steam holiday sale, and...god the game was just garbage.  Horrible writing, bland dialogue, terrible gameplay.  I loved Bastion, but man Transistor sucked. Call of Duty is NOT 100% of the gaming market. The genre's sales have even been declining. Why is /r/games so content to sit back and claim that CoD gamers are driving the future of console development? That's ludicrous.  What about Lego dildos? Honestly the only thing stopping me is the lack of Gamepad/Pro-controller support. I understand that it would have been a major pain in the ass to add in controller support, since the original trilogy didn't have classic controller support, but I don't even have the sensor bar for my WiiU plugged in. Don't really need it.

Since I already have the Wii trilogy, I'm only going to play it on my Wii that has the sensor bar plugged in, there's not much benefit to getting the digital version. For those who haven't been able to find a copy of the trilogy though, this is an amazing deal. and now d3 has fix a lot of it's problems  Why is Batman scraping the barrel now? The more obscure characters the better. 

Not everyone wants to be The Flash or Superman. Some of us like playing as Ace the Bat-Hound I like the submarine ending because [Spoiler](#s "even though you get betrayed your killer is essentially screwed. Good luck submarining out of the desert, bitch.") *My brother.*

Metroid is my anchor for my entire gaming history. It was the game that mystified me and frustrated me and enthralled me when I got my weekly one game NES rental as a kid. It was the first Game Boy game I ever got, teasing and confusing me for months as I tried to navigate SR388. It was the enormous epic masterpiece that opened up a world on my SNES. When Prime and Fusion were announced, I was excited as hell for Fusion and tentatively curious about Prime. Prime blew away my expectations- such an incredible feeling of being lost and alone- of being inside Samus's head in an oppressive, mysterious planet. The rest of trilogy was just as fun, but nothing compares to that first feeling of landing on Tallon IV and having no idea what lay ahead. That's what one of the more popular comments in the thread says, yes. No it's not.  What a terrible game. It's not that the legal repercussions aren't the reason you have those principles (moral, blablabla, etc.), it's that the legal repercussions are the reason you can't easily go AGAINST those principles. With Hatred, you can let go of those principles if you decide so ''because it's safe to do so''. With robbing, you can't really let go of those ''because it's not safe to do so''. That doesn't mean those laws decided your principles. It's just that those laws made it so that, if you reject those kinds of principles, you can't easily act against them.  Nope, this is just a digital port of the Wii version as it was. Price. That's it  There's just no point anymore. It's an android box that plays games? So what? There's now tons of different android boxes for hooking up to your TV from dozens of random manufacturers on at this very moment. You can load whatever android app you desire.

The article mentions it, but Amazon's FireTV is  already out pushed by someone with real financial backing and support. You can load anything you want. Aside from being awesome for Prime subscribers it has Netflix, Hulu, HBO, Plex and others. You can install Kodi/XBMC for all your local media. I'm running 14.0 just fine. It has a Limelight version for direct integration with Steam/Gamesstream to steam all your Steam library. Got Retroarch and some other emulators loaded. Plus you can just use any random Xinput controller. I bought a $10 adaptor and use a wii u pro controller. Plus there's a bunch of the same native Android games as well. 

And that's the thing. You can do that with basically any random android box above mentioned. These alternatives are also newer with better specs and the same or cheaper cost. It's just nothing special now.  I had no idea that the Metroid Prime Trilogy collector's edition sold for so much. I have a copy of that. I think I'll sell that and buy this one. Will it still sell for that much after the release of this one?  Or the fact that it looks about as powerful as a PS3 - which was outdated 5 years ago. The market remembers how long the last generation lasted. Why would they buy tech that is already so outdated at the start of a new one?  I had no idea that the Metroid Prime Trilogy collector's edition sold for so much. I have a copy of that. I think I'll sell that and buy this one. Will it still sell for that much after the release of this one? 

 On an unrelated noted, I read this really passionate rant like 5-10 years ago about how this guy hated the phrase "killer app" and how people were using it too often. In all the time since, this is the first time I've actually seen the phrase used. At least with the trilogy, I don't know if it was because people hoarded them. It was just a limited run thing to begin with, I see it available at Gamestops usually. I'd say it's aimed at people who play games, specifically those that play games with guns in them.  eah, how about no. &gt; Prime 1 comes out for Gamecube and I hear its now 3D, I thought they would ruin it. After having my heart broken over what they did to Link

That is such a weird sentiment to hear. I know some people think that LttP is the pinnacle of the Zelda series, but were people actually disappointed how they translated it to 3D? It was done about as well as anyone could have hoped for. Why is everyone whining about the visuals? You still get no money if the round timer runs out and you haven't planted as Ts. Because the games are extremely fun?  Only graphics whores put appearance over fun It was severely underpowered the year it came out. Bad marketing combined with bad press = dead console.   I'll agree with you about the polish, but I don't think it's fair to discount the effects of Path's depth simply because the main focus is combat.

I've rolled each class a dozen times at this point and I've never had two characters that feel similar past level 15ish. If you're a wand witch, you'll play differently than a summoner witch, which is different from an arc witch, which is different from a lightning tendrils witch, which is different from a nova witch, etc. Witch is my favorite class if you can't tell.

So while most of the game takes place in combat, the way you engage in and deal with combat differs radically depending on your particular build. How is it compared to the mod a while ago?http://www.moddb.com/mods/fahrenheit-indigo-prophecy-hd-mod-1080p The fist time light flashed and for that brief second you see her face reflected in the visor.

*chills* This game looks very close to how I *remember* Postal looked when I was ~8 years old. They are different obviously but I get very similar vibes for whatever reason. I think its more along the lines that in hatred your character indulges in killing people. Personally I don't find anything appealing about going around killing people. Sure I do it in gta mostly because I like to see the silly ways the npcs react. Also because I like to have all out wars with cops. However going around shooting people begging for their life up close and personal honestly sounds pointless. Oh wow I can kill people in a life like manner. It just seems pointless. I play games to not mimic real life. Next make a bill paying simulator because that sounds incredibly engaging too. I love how people are trying to make more out of this game then there really is. Like when it was banned from steam people say they were going to play it out of free speech. Yeah good job. You're standing up for the ability to play a game just because you think its some injustice that company well within its rights chose not to have the game on its store. You're really sticking it to the man. What'd you not like? [The know](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=GN-QbobXsg4) breaks it down better than I ever could I disagree... I've played them with the wii controls and I hated it. I'd much rather be able to play with a normal controller. I'm glad they seem to work for so many people, but I just can't stand it personally. I bought the game and had trouble downloading it to my usb thing (it said it was disconnected or needed more power)... so I deleted the unfinished file, placed the usb on the front (it was in the back because it looks better) and started the download again and now I have to wait like 3 hours. Good good I find the wiimote aiming to be WAY too loose for my liking. Give me a regular controller over the motion controls any day. Damnn just bought transistor for my PC D:  When you have a game that focuses a lot on characters, story and plot, I feel like your animations and aesthetics should be very high priority. 


You don't want characters that move like robots, or low quality lip-syncing during a complete cinematic experience. 


 Wow, I never realized that. 

I'm not very big into anime, but I have seen Evangelion (the series and the three reboots). That's pretty interesting, I'll have to rewatch it to see if I notice that stuff as well. I don't think many of the 1st party games Nintendo has would work well on a PC. It's just a matter of format. They are designed to be a social, living room experience. I believe this is part of the reason their network development is so fucking awful.  &gt;750k is a lot of people! Keep in mind that Nintendo has started to realize that they're better off providing products for their 'hardcore' audience and this one is just that.

First I want to address this. 750k is a lot of people. I want to mention that I am just now starting to get into the competitive community and I love it. I think the community is really fucking cool and I think Melee is a great competitive game.

However, it's nothing when compared to the sales they can get on new Smash games. What do you think the non-competitive player is going to want to spend money on: an old version of Smash with significantly less features, stages, characters, and items? Or a new version with new features and so on. 

&gt;What? People had already played melee. Why would they have trouble with this?

Some people have played melee. There are still 5 million Brawl players who never played it, and the vast majority of casual users haven't touched melee in 10+ years. They're used to this new style of Smash.

&gt;It was on a different console, with a much higher install base. It was a highly anticipated title, coming off of melee. Smash4 has sold much less, due to the lower install base of the WiiU

Sure, but the point is 5 million players that have prior smash experience never played Melee. And that's assuming every person who bought a copy of Melee bought a copy of Brawl.

&gt;The latter would sell more than the former if re-released now, I can promise you that.

It might sell more, but a Melee re-release still would not sell "well", relative to the kinds of sales Nintendo can expect from a typical Smash release, not even close. That's what I was saying.
 I would purchase one, but they are still so expensive ($500 in New Zealand) and given region locking there is no way to get around it. In plastic cases or steelbook?

Steelbook was the original printing and is kinda rare, plastic cases are the recent pressings that are quite common. No, Call of Duty isn't the entire market, but it's a good example. You could list tons of third party stuff: Destiny, Bioshock, Assassin's Creed, Far Cry, etc. They're all games that third parties don't want to bring to the Wii U because those types of games traditionally don't sell well on Nintendo platforms.

All I'm saying is that it takes more than better hardware for those types of games to sell on Nintendo platforms. So SR2 with better graphics and SR3 with Johnny?  Hell yes! What? Are you really arguing that all a game needs to look great is framerate and resolution? The circlejerk is strong in this thread.  Honestly?  All of it.  I loved Bastion, but Transistor was just awful.  I finally gave up after three levels of bad writing, poor voice acting, and gameplay that was not fun in any way, shape or form.  

[This post in truegaming perfectly summed up my feelings toward the game.](http://www.reddit.com/r/truegaming/comments/2qwzs7/transistor_and_pretentious_games/)   It just felt so goddamn pretentious. It's more of the same, except this time around progression is gated by traveling back to a space town to get a quest that rewards you an upgrade to survive on specific grades of planets. Those planets SPECIFICALLY, will have the materials you need to reach the next tier. Repeat 3-4 times, then run out of things to do, because there's even less reason to explore. You might want to run this through a grammar check. It will be really great for emulators in a few years. That's about it.   What's up with the ammo system for echoes?  What, pray tell, are beta mode stages? That's true but I think this is happening across a ton of different fields simultaneously. With the advent of YouTube and social media just about anyone can have a voice and produce content with minimal financial backing, and the masses have spoken in saying that, to them, that content is on the level with what professional journalists are creating. When a 22 year old can create a video reviewing a game that gets as many hits as a salaried journalist, the economics behind the old way of doing things become really hard to justify. Not to say that journalism doesn't have its place, there are plenty of things that these gaming sites provide us; like windows into how game development happens and breaking news stories involving the people and studios behind games. But at the end of the day, we're seeing most of these big websites taking a hard look at YouTube and wondering how they can compete, which is why Polygon, PC Gamer, and others have all begun incorporating Let's Plays and similar styles of content into their offerings. 

I don't think "gaming journalism" as it exists today will die entirely, there is an incredibly useful purpose many of them still serve, but i do think the industry will change heavily from a corporate structure to an Etsy-style, built-from-home-content over the next few years as more professionals like Greg Miller and team depart to strike out on their own and establish themselves as the brand rather than the company that employs them.

Gaming journalism hasn't hit its peak, its just redefining what that peak actually is. Taking a quick look at eBay, it seems prices have gone down since I last checked.  The collector's edition is still going for 70 or 80 dollars, though. I can't speak for everyone of my age range, but I do know a lot of people who grew up with Legend of Zelda and Adventure of Link and later on LttP absolutely HATED OoT.

For me Link was never a kid.  His story was never Cute.  

The game I imagined them making was a lot closer to Shadow of the Colossus than anything remotely close to OoT.

 This submission has been automatically removed because it is one paragraph long or shorter. 

Your thread may need more detail or breaks our rules for being too specific (such as "which of these two games should I buy?") or too general (such as "what is the best PC game"). If your thread was asking for suggestions about what games to get, /r/gamingsuggestions, /r/ShouldIbuythisgame, or /r/askgames would be better places to ask.

If you think that your post was unjustly removed, please send us a [message](http://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2FGames)."


*[I am a bot](/r/AutoModerator/comments/q11pu/what_is_automoderator/), and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2FGames) if you have any questions or concerns.* Omega mode with platforms pretty much. The tickrate issue in Battlefield 4 was quite a major issue for a long time. It originally was locked to 10Hz, which led directly to players being killed behind cover. There was also an issue due to the tickrate, I believe, which resulted in bullets being counted twice, and effectively one-hit killing players when they shouldn't have been. Furthermore, DICE continues to believe that players prefer accuracy over cover ability, so Frostbite 3 was developed without much consideration to that entire side of playing. Now imagine the latency issues compounding these problems and you'll get a picture of the shit show that this game was for at least 3-6 months post-release.

The server stuff is also a concern of mine. Thought it isn't a Frostbite 3 issue, it is an EA/DICE issue. There's no reason a company as huge as EA couldn't host servers in South America. There is a very sizable gaming community in places like Brazil and Argentina, and I'm sure there are people in Venezuela, Colombia, Peru, Chile, etc. who also want to enjoy these games. Their only option is to join US servers or other servers around the world, causing lag everywhere. The lag that is created by these players who have 300+ms pings to US East servers destroys the integrity of the game completely. Three tenths of a second translates into a 2-meter (6+ feet!) difference in where the player is on their screen and where the server says that player is. Now, that assumes the player can run 100m in 15 seconds, so take that with a grain of salt , as I haven't actually timed BF4 sprinting. It would be a fast time, though. Nevertheless, that is just the distance at the server. Well it's ok, Pikachu and Mario are in the game.

The initial selling point stands, only they are instead going above and beyond and including characters from lesser-known series too.

Well have you actually given those games a good look? Kid Icarus actually became my favorite series after Brawl was released. I now have every single KI game (which is only 3, haha.) and love each of them. Xenoblade seemed to me like a generic Fantasy RPG too until I actually went in and took a look at it. Games should always have the option to turn off tutorials, notifications, tips, or whatever other clutter that devs deem necessary to plaster over the screen. as a dude working on a computer science degree, how i fell: http://i.imgur.com/0AVj239.gif


fucking acronyms.  All aboard the hype train! Choo choo!!  

I'm trying to talk my wife into taking the kids to her moms for a week, and taking some time off work for this. A fair point,  but an irrelevant one. At the time of the Virtual Boy,  Nintendo didn't just have a plan B,  they had a different plan A.  &gt;I struggle with countering a vision. When I do, then another vision replaces it within 5 seconds, and since there's only a few ways to inflict topple to cancel a vision, a vision usually implies a party wipe within a few rounds.

This is actually where the game's combat system shines, since you need to put in some thought into how you're going to survive. Most importantly, you need to have some sort of contingency plan.

Most of the time, your goal isn't to stop the envisioned attack from happening altogether, but to simply ensure that your party sustains the least amount of damage from it overall, and can still take another few hits without dying. 

This is why the Warn mechanic is so useful when you get a vision - you can use it to bolster your entire party in case things go awry after you survive the vision (Shulk uses Light Heal and then Warns Sharla to heal the entire party), you can use it to shift Aggro in order to make your Tank take the hit (Warn Reyn to use Mad Taunt and then heal him or use Monado Speed on him if appropriate, then step back so you don't accumulate any additional aggro), you can use it to Topple an enemy (Shulk inflicts Break and then Reyn inflicts Topple). 

As the variety of Arts increases and you try out more characters, you get new tools for dealing with visions. You can Warn some characters to force Topple or even Daze (if Daze is inflicted in response to a vision, it forces the monster to choose a different attack) without Break, you can Warn some characters to increase your entire party's defenses so they can take hits *after* surviving the vision, you can Warn some characters to use Arts that will ensure that they survive the attack no matter what, etc. Not everyone thinks that a console propped up by 20 year old franchises is fun, dude. Furthermore, it's very likely Nintendo will need to release another system before the current generation's life cycle is over. You need to chill out.  Wasn't Kratos a half-god like Hercules? He sure as shit didn't seem like a regular human based on the one I played. I agree completely, add on to the fact that the "enemy's" in hatred are screaming in terror while pleading for mercy. You don't have that in GTA I played on PC and the default was 3rd.  There's nothing wrong in liking it. It's just a videogame with intensive violence. defaults to first for me This is kind of weirding me out that **Apotheon** is releasing for free on PS4. (I know, you have to have PS+, but I assume most PS4 owners do so they can play multiplayer.) Does that mean that the developer/publisher doesn't have confidence that people will pay for *Apotheon*? Does this mean that it's actually a bad game that's not worth any money?

I preordered on PC a year ago, so this is kind of freaking me out... They just halved their own profit projections,  and this is the first year they've made a profit in some time. Let's not act like they are making all that much off of the sales they do have.  Looks to be pretty positive. I expect I'll go down as a cult classic if the remaining episodes score equally well. I think the problem is that the Wii controllers were really pretty limited as far as motion detection and providing visceral feedback. A few games tried sword fighting, but it was really unsatisfying without collision...  You've done more killing with your spelling and punctuation in your OP than the "protagonist" of Hatred does in the game.  Have you played the marquee games on the system?  They're genuinely fun.  The Wii U has games that the Xbox One and PS4 just don't have. I've got a PS4 as well and I would definitely say I've put more hours into my Wii U than my PS4 Rare, you say? I got one of those when it first came out.  There are so many other companies and industries researching batteries,  the chance of Nintendo being the one to make a breakthrough is low. If they did,  it might be too expensive or run too hot to work in a powerful handheld. They'd also probably be better off licencing the technology,  rather than using it to differentiate a handheld.  Was the narration dialogue written by an angry teenager who feels like they're "different" from everyone? &gt; it got burned out trying to do everything around halfway threw. 

&gt;my biggest issue is the that the combat system feels too slow and it reminds me too much of the tales of seris combat system just slower

There are way too many quests to not get burned out. On top of that, doing quests and exploring gives you HP, so if you were doing all the quests, you were probably overlevelled for most of the enemies. It's a shame, since this game's combat system is a lot more tactical when you're up against a challenging enemy. It's not like this same comment happens every time the Wii U is talked about on reddit. No, the Wii U had a Wii inside it. If you play Xenoblade on the Wii U it'll look exactly the same as on the Wii, since it is exactly the same. It's not emulation - it's identical.  I own a Wii U and PS4 as well. But we are in a thread about why the Wii U is failing, and "overpriced, old hardware" would probably be my take on it. Thanks for your downvotes... The physical copy will still exist. It will still have value for collectors. DO NOT BUY THIS ON PC.

This is for those of us who want an HoMM game on Android or iOS devices. I don't really get that disappointment. While OoT had a younger Link for a portion of the game, I wouldn't really call the story "cute". There was a good bit of darkness too it (being abandoned by his dying mother to a guardian who he tries to rescue and fails, attempting to stop Ganondorf only to be sealed away, creating a dystopian future that he has to correct), and even more in the sequel Majora's Mask.

In terms of Shadow of the Colossus expectation, I can't say I've played that game, but hardware could have been a restriction to that expectation. Huh, interesting.  Before this comment, I thought opinions couldn't be wrong. Rare like worth maybe 10$ more than you paid so yeh... That snarky analogy wasn't the best thing going either, buddy. 

Take it easy. I wish Nintendofags wouldn't downvote this thread They just trashed the name Wii now, probably the most recognizable gaming brand from last decade. The road for Wii 2 was simple to me (just a game fanatic), call it Wii 2, HD graphics, solid online, more precise Wiimote with a wireless nunchuck, sell it for $200 with Wii Sports HD and a good hardcore title like Galaxy 3 on day one, that's it. That could be Miyamotos influence more than Aonuma. It was only after he talked openly about moving the series forward that Miyamoto stepped in and said basically the exact opposite. Either way,  the accessability that seems to be the focus doesn't look like it will create a very engaging game. I'm almost just expecting another Zelda but with longer travel times.  Is counterstrike really about being a terrorist though, or is it just a frame for a bunch of mechanics? You could change the team names to red team and blue team and still have the same game. If you change the name of the protagonist to Andrew Jackson and change the name of the civilians too something else, you would still have the same game with the same sick taste in the mouth feeling I love twin-stick shooters You'd be right. When Battlefront first came out I always thought of it as a Star Wars version of Battlefield. Fair point, but I think it's one thing to spend a bunch of money on something you enjoy, and something else entirely to spend that much on something you think you will enjoy in theory, something that mostly exists only on paper, Well, somewhat harder to find. I remember for a while they were floating around $70-80, not sure where the prices are now. Yeah it looks like KB/M will probably be better for dogfighters/ gunners for sure. Nothing beats flying with a stick though. It's just so fun. How do you know that will stop? I put it on Amazon for like $75 two years ago and it sold in a few minutes, flat. My opinion of 2D vs 3D Zelda notwithstanding, your comment about Link "not being a kid" makes no sense. He was definitely a kid in LTTP and I want to say he's a kid in every single one up until the second half of OoT. At the very least a majority of the games. What a curveball it'd be if the source of the main character's time rewinding abilities turn out to be aliens or demons or something. Never meant to imply they are equal, the setup of hatred seems silly. 
   
That said, let's also not pretend that all other games have a point. There have been plenty of games that allow or promote the killing of innocents without any point or justification. Postal 1 was essential the same game as hatred by the way, isometric point of view mass murder simulation. Wasn't state of emergency a third person shooter where you murdered a lot of people? I only had the demo as a kid but I killed lots of innocent people and I really don't remember any backlash for that game.

I'm not sure if the whole game revolved around that but you still did it a lot. Isn't this game kind of the same thing? they actually almost had every spidey villain in the lego marvel game:

Doctor Octopus
Green Goblin
Sandman
Venom
Carnage
Mysterio
Kraven
Electro
The Lizard
Rhino
the Shocker
Vulture
Kingpin Not really digging the fact these guys are using controversy to gain more sales, just leads me to believe they are trying to sell a bad game that they think is revolutionary because they made the character look like the average school shooter. Game is definitely gonna rustle some jimmies on release though, so that should be pretty awesome. There are many reasons to buy and Xbox or Playstation if you're a PC gamer? in fact it's the same reason someone would buy a Wii U... Exclusives. Really well said, this is the response I had to it the trailer as well.

I would also use the "No Russian" mission from Modern Warfare 2 as a reference point. On the surface, you could argue that the gameplay for that stage was very similar to what we're seeing in the Hatred trailer: the player guns down innocent, unarmed civilians. But "No Russian" puts the action in the context of a larger story, and, in addition to making the actual act of killing NPCs optional, is meant to disturb the player and have them question the morality of what they're doing (allowing all of these airport passengers to die in order to maintain cover, if I remember correctly). With all of that context, the "No Russian" mission made good use of depicting this kind of violence, and while it wasn't "fun," it added to my overall enjoyment of the game because of what it put me through.

As you say above, it doesn't look like Hatred will be attempting to do something that interesting with this kind of violence. It's not fair to judge the game until it's released, but unless it diverges VERY significantly from the tone and content of this trailer, it looks as though it WANTS you to take joy in the act of murdering helpless innocents without any significant storytelling nuance or discussion of morality. There may be gamers out there who are better at separating game from reality and capable of enjoying this, but I'm not one of them.  I feel that by the 7 iteration this franchise will produce the best game ever made. They just keep getting more fun and stupid awesome.  It is the same now. (Bought the Spain bundle and you click a button to reveal a code.) &gt;Complaining about linearity in a Mario game

Lol The game insists it's deep and people believe it.  I REALLY hope they don't EA this up! Aren't they only doing the Galactic Civil War? The only negative is having to talk and find all the NPCs to get the new quests and then having to find and  re-talk to them again and again

 Gorgons.  Zoras, hell King Zora sitting on the water supply.  Ganon's nose.  Mother Fucking Nali.  

Just about every aspect of that game was tuned for an audience around the age of 10.  Hell the cartoons I watched at age 10 were more mature than OoT.

Look at Adventure of Link, Link is as old as all the towns folk, he's on a mission near impossible, no one talks down to him as if he is a child or young adult.  

Then LttP comes out and yeah he isn't a grown adult he is still just as mature as everyone else in the village.  He's of average age.  The game doesn't have anything cutesy and even when you get turned into a rabbit it isn't made silly rather slightly disturbing.  (I'll give you the fat fairy.)

To add insult to injury when they re-released LttP on gameboy advanced they fucking changed the game to retroactively make link act and sound younger to fit the OoT narrative.  His attack sounds and his falling sounds are changed to match those of young link from OoT.

Back in the NES days Link was on par with Simon Belmont.  You'd be insane to say they were equal after OoT.  Belmont could have been his dad. Almost every in I batlfield shoots actual projectiles, so I'm not sure what you are getting at. For the record, visions were actually amazingly intuitive once you stopped thinking about them as if every single vision required a specific arbitrary reaction ("use the SILVER thing in X situation and the GOLD thing in Y situation", etc as if you had to remember every single situation), and started thinking about them in terms of "how am I going to ensure that my party doesn't get screwed?". It's not really a puzzle since it's actually fairly open-ended.

Against all visions, you had a variety of options to help your party survive the attack and live to take another few hits afterward (e.g. healing, shifting aggro, inflicting buffs or debuffs - you could actually go up to another party member and ask them to help you do these things if you couldn't do them by yourself). It's just that certain types of visions had additional options for surviving them, which were your best option *if they were available to you at that time*. Well, you may have a point there. [But let's not forget Ubisoft blaming the weak specs of the Wii U on the reason for no more Assassin's Creed games.](http://www.ign.com/articles/2014/10/06/ubisoft-assassins-creed-unity-could-not-run-on-wii-u) 

I realize that this statement coincides with the fact that Assassin's creed doesn't sell well on the Wii U. But Ubisoft still released Watch Dogs on the platform. [It runs worse than it did on the PS3.](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eO1j1o972QQ) 

Graphics may not be 100%, but let's not pretend that processing power is a huge component on whether or not 3rd parties want to make a game for the Wii U. because now they have to deal with a character they can't play, and will always lack some sort of knowledge about the character, in addition to the inherent problems brought in with unbalanced dlc characters. &gt;Polygon 8/10

Huh, looks like they *weren't* friends with the developer. Seriously. It's exhausting. Every thread about the game is a re-hash of the same old misinformed criticisms (plenty of legitimate ones too, don't get me wrong!) and it just gets annoying. I feel like all anyone on /r/games knows about SC are these negatives that are constantly upvoted through the roof. As you did well in a match, you unlocked a hero character from the movies, like Darth Vader. And these characters had way more life, power, and abilities that kicked ass and could take out a bunch of dudes. But once you died, you had to go back into using the normal classes, and you had kick some ass and get more points to get another chance. BField has nothing like this, all classes are even, you may have a bomber, or special weapons that show up in the map, but nothing close to hero characters which are really fun to use, and fight against. 

Also because there are so many factions in Star Wars, fights weren't always humanoids versus other humanoids in different outfits, which was fun. 

Also Battlefront uses a bunch of AI units on the map that you have to fight as well, which made the fights seem really awesome and thick with action, while also not having them all be players targeting you and destroying you. 

The game just had a very different flow, and especially maps where you had space fights, and dropped the shield on a ship, then landed in their bays and attacked their control rooms and bridges on foot. Just had a much different feel then BField, where air are used to take out infantry, armored ground vehicles, or to take out other air vehicles from doing the first two things.  As a ps3 owner, no complaints whatsoever. I always wanted to see how it was.  Backslash! Yeah, but he said he was most interested in first party titles so that shouldn't be a problem.  Ah, OK.  Thank you for correcting me.  I wasn't aware that he was running two crowd funding efforts simultaneously.  I thought he had started on kickstarter then moved over to his own site.   But actually he started on his own site, then ran 2 (one on kickstarter), then kept going on his own site.  Very interesting.   Yep, I have a pc and have a 3DS and thinking of picking up a Wii U.

Theres just something abont Nintendo games that make my smile when I play one.  Got mine for smashbros, which I ended up not playing as much as I had hoped, and not it just sits in my front room waiting for a new zelda, metroid or Xenoblade.  If you buy the $20 pack of all three DLCs, you get a Dark Link skin for Link which is why I avoid buying digital games on Nintendo consoles as much as I can. I don't mind throwing $10 for Galaxy 2 on eshop, but I'm buying the $60 Bayonetta or Mario Kart on discs So unlike the original metroid prime, where your standard beams had unlimited ammo, but widely varying functions that allowed for flexibility, Echos has your power beam with unlimited ammo, and you soon unlock the light beam and dark beam, each with their own respective ammo. Firing one shot eats one ammo, and a charged shot ate about 5 or 10. 

There was also the dual world gameplay where you jump between the light and dark world. Enemies in one world are vulnerable to the opposite ammo type, and barely feel ammo of the same type. So far not bad.

Things get stupid when you realize that (other than recharge stations) the only way to replenish one type of ammo is to kill an enemy with the OPPOSITE TYPE! So if you decide to wreck dark world enemies with the light beam, you aren't getting that ammo back until you get back to the light world and kill enemies with dark ammo, and then guess what: You're out of dark ammo, and the cycle repeats itself.

On top of that, you sometimes need specific ammo to solve puzzles or to give you certain combat capabilities (dark ammo freezes for example). So the strategic beam switching from the first game that gave you room to play with the weapon you like most was replaced with a system that made you too afraid to use anything other than the power beam because of the classic fear of "will I need this later".

At least with missiles, you can count on stumbling across them at a regular rate, so you feel more liberal with them. Giving ammo replenishment such a strict requirement was no fun at all.

/rant. They didn't make him a Kid in LttP until the remake for Gameboy Advance where they changed his attack and falling audio to match young link from OoT.

Before that he was just a young adult, possibly late teens.

Before in AoL he was as mature as anyone else in town.   Sold. Looks fantastic. Eh, Nintendo's 1st party exclusives are much more unique than the kind you get on the PS4 or XBone, IMHO. It's hard to get a good AAA platformer on the PC. AAA shooters and RPGs, not so much...  Yeah.  I think the controller should have just been an accessory you could buy.  I am not gonna lie, I use it a lot when my tv is taken up or if I go to my friends.

But any chance I get, I just use the wii u pro controller.  The only game I havent been able to use the wii u pro controller was treasure toad.

I also used it for pikmin since it made micro managing captains easier.  But except for those two games I have used the pro controller and I have played and completed roughly 12 games on the wii u. That was awesome! It really baffles me that Nintendos consoles are the only ones with hardware backward compatibility yet a lot of games that people want aren't really available. The cost to dump stuff into the web store should be minimal and I really can't see them making a lot of money from random people who are selling on ebay or are playing their games on emulators because they won't sell them. 

I get that it's lucrative to do limited disk based "re-releases" if you can get 100 from a customer instead of 20 or 10 and they can specificly target those who will buy every copy in the store. It makes sense from a business perspective but still quite shitty. Hey. If you like more of this stuff, please check our sub /r/themakingofgames.

[More stuff on Alien: Isolation](http://www.reddit.com/r/TheMakingOfGames/comments/26g5h1/alien_isolation_creating_the_characters_and_cast/)
 My unredeemed keys from before HB used OAuth show up in the Unredeemed Keys section. (I did not click on them to reveal the key.) That would look really weird in a game where the camera is moving around and changing angles a lot. It works in MOBAs and RTS thanks to the fixed camera. Can't say I understand the appeal, but if that's what you like then that's what you like. I hope the game is good either way, as there's no point in wanting a developer to fail, I just don't find the hyper edgyness all that appealing even if it was a genre I liked. Hope you have fun with it at least. (If you plan on playing it.) TBH I wouldn't be surprised if they both had a hand in it.

All I know is that Aonuma couldn't finish the first Zelda game, and that part of his experience prior to joining Nintendo was in creating elaborate mechanical scripted puzzle boxes that resemble what Zelda's dungeons are becoming. Eh, Nice opinion you have, yeah you're right it's not like the PS4 has LB3 or Ratchet &amp; Clank coming out. Yeah, basically. A lot of people don't know that. 

The whole game went from being an indie game with lots of investors to a purely crowdfunded game. simply because people gave so much support for it. It's awesome to see.

A lot of people only see our "Yay! Another million dollars!" posts and think that all we care about is funding. Really, we're just all floored by the incredible support SC has.

Can't wait for it to start releasing new modules and start showing what comes out of $70 million of pure funding. Just watch the trailer! If there is some deeper meaning and your character progresses through the story and turns to god and goes to heaven or some shit like that, maybe the game does have something; but it's a freaking twin stick shooter. They're not the most deep "gameplay" genres out there. 

Yeah, there's physics and nice fire; that's not enough to get me to play a twin stick shooter were you kill civilians that plead for mercy before you blow their brains out. Nice fire doesn't make me want to burn innocent civilians alive. 

Really, the only way I'm going to be playing this game is if it has some absolutely phenomenal mechanics or some mind blowing story revalations.

Seriously, if this game wasn't about what it's about, would you play it? I don't think so. 