Happened to my SO's desktop.  Nobody was nearby or around when it just assploded. Scared the shit out of everyone and it was a gigantic mess.  We had gotten our tempered glass desktop from IKEA and some googling suggests it happens more than you think...

https://www.google.com/search?q=tempered+glass+exploding&amp;oq=tempered+glass+ex&amp;aqs=chrome.1.69i57j0l5.5207j0j1&amp;sourceid=chrome&amp;es_sm=119&amp;ie=UTF-8 They sorta retcon what Mark VI armor looks like. Personally I think it works. I'm not bothered. Lego will make video games based on everything. I imagine this is huge business for Lego chair took a beating over the years Go out of business? thought this would die in user sub get Darkwatch, Republic commandos, Jedi Knight, Kotor, Otogi, Crimson Skies, and Ninja Gaiden Black No, what you said is not coherent.

Replace the word defined with determined and it would be coherent.

The words you used in the order you used them have no discernible meaning. That I can determine what you meant despite that doesn't make it a coherent sentence.

"I need food stomach," is not coherent even if I can determine the person saying it means they are hungry by other reasoning. I have a K70.

Brown switches, bought it back when there was no RGB available. &gt;The drawback is that it's just going to crap up the ad with more logos.

Did you notice the 4 Playstation icons and the 2 xbox icons? How is that not clutter? Aye I saw a few comments later that it was a photoshop, which is fair enough, but this particular image shows something from Dark Souls, which is all I was sayin'! Title is misleading. Nintendo is still stealing part of the revenue, and there are a lot of games not available under their new plan. looks over at my subwoofer on the glass desk. Jep, the simple reason for a new armor is: It's a new game and artists got the freedom to interprete the mjollniir armor again. 
The comments clearly show how the card house of explanations crumble under the easiest questions. It sounds like your ex needs a good ass-kickin and a lesson about respecting one's parents. ...in your opinion, sure. Guild wars 2 has a crafting system no other MMO's can match, the only Microtransactions are cosmetic, and there are regular updates.

Guild wars 2 introduces a dodge mechanism that make battles way more intense, and the skills you use vary on your combination of class and weapon, as opposed to just class like most other MMOs.

Guild wars 2 is a buy-to-play type of MMO, so it won't drain your pockets either. You can play whenever you want, Whatever you want, as long as you want.
 Plus, it's absolutely beautiful if you're not playing on a potato

Let's take World of Warcraft in comparison.

20$ a month for an old MMO where you have to spend hours upon hours standing still while grinding dungeons to get higher up, where you can occasionally find gathering nodes that you can make into gear you'll never use - All while looking like you're playing a ps1 emulator.

Also, i'm going to correct you one more time - Guild wars 2 doesn't suck, It's just not of your tastes. Looks like this guy just met Capra Demon. HE QUIKBROWN FOJUPS OER HE LA DOG Cant stop looking at that desk chair... I kinda like that we don't have to be represented by a trademarked logo.

It's like, "Sony's people," "Microsoft's people," and "Those who are not owned." Welps. Glass is out of my choices now. what movie is that? It sounds like he abused her as well.  NSFPCMR I think I actually played this more than MK , it had single player story so it was pretty fun. I loved playing with Dingodile. And an earring. its traveling out of atmo, spinning up traveling then coming down in atmo. when travel distance is irrelevant then all travel time is the same. travelling everywhere takes minutes. Getting together which each others friends was pretty brutal. She constantly wanted to go out drinking at nightclubs and I wanted to just relax at a local bar and have a few drinks with some close friends. 

Her parents and I also had a really rough start as well. They really didn't approve of the relationship at all and we've had some pretty big battles... we are close now thankfully. 

It was a lot of fun when it was just her and I. Physically everything was great and emotionally it was ok as well but seemed like we were always on the verge of a big fight. It was just a total disaster anytime we went out though. Thinking back on it even now makes me question how we got to where we are now nearly 11 years later.  GameCube and Metroid Prime. THE QUICK BROWN FOX JUMPS OVER LAZY DOG

and this is cheap 15 keyboard *those *snort* i get it I'm ok with the changes. I think it works fine, plus the armor design they're using now actually has function to it. You can see the giant screw-looking-things on the back and the helmet, the bodysuit beneath. It looks great to me. What about journalists writing game reviews? Or what about people who talk about games on radio or podcasts? Should those not be monetized either?

The fundamental difference is that the creator of a Let's Play video has significantly more editing to do before the content is ready to release.  Holy shit I have the same desk. Bought from Frys in like 2001. Hold that thought my iPhone is dying let me charge it brb this was a great game up until it became very very terrible. If they remaster ever goes on sale, I might grab it just for the fun of it Pointing the wrong way 2 great headphones are more cost effective than cheap speakers. No it wasn't. Cortana only said she upgraded his firmware. The armor is retconned Yes, and Star-Lord just got his ass beat. Fuck it, just put a big ass pentagram and the devils fire all around it so it looks intimidating and stands out. I got it for 50. It's shit if you spend that much on it. It was big back then, too. I remember a gaming mag doing a bit on it. Someone submitted a link to this submission in the following subreddit:

* /r/shitpost: [Broken Desk With Photoshopped Game Image](https://np.reddit.com/r/shitpost/comments/2u35xo/broken_desk_with_photoshopped_game_image/)

----
This comment was posted by a bot, see /r/Meta_Bot for more info. Please respect rediquette, and do not vote or comment on the linked submissions. Thank you. I have yet to see an iPhone screen in perfect condition. I know it's like this in the UK. At least it was [Dark Souls](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=91_DusA40sY), so his rage is somewhat understandable. Fully **remastered Metroid Prime**. Yeah, on android and ios. It works better than you'd think and they make a few things easier to compensate for the touch screen, but obviously movement is kinda awkward. No. They're the owner of the subject matter. The creators are the people who make the videos. 

My post was more of a people who staunchly defend do-no-wrong Nintendo and their extremely stupid policies that have no place in gaming in 2015. we dont need a logo tbh, we already won in every other area Yup. Pretty sure the ad ran and they did a bit on it. EA have a really really good customer service compared to just about anyone in the industry. While I don't have live chat in my local langauge, Norwegian, I can make them call me up, in my langauge(I can of course call them as well), and I can write my support tickets in my language as well. I've used the English system every time, but it's really nice to see that a company in willing to put that extra effort in there to provide support in the languages that they provide their service in.  And that is cheating and if the orgasm is so important to you, you need to cheat instead of just rubbing one out/in, then YOU are the problem in the relationship.  St. Barths is not really a hard approach, its a straight shot to the runway there is a hill that you have to pitch down to get to the runway but the approach is fairly straight. Also you can power up and circle around for another go if needed. And ditching out in to the ocean right there is much safer then say a mountain. 

At Lukla, Nepal you have to fly between the mountains to an approach that is inclined with a wall at the end. You only get one shot at it. 

its [this](http://youtu.be/c5i4xPUXA0Q) vs. [this](http://youtu.be/6rV0-mbTplk) That was antagonizingly beautiful But then you're not supposed to interact with her Yeah, I'm not nearly as disturbed by the desk as I am his chair. Spending that much money on a gaming system while having a chair that Goodwill wouldn't sell in unacceptable.  to be completely honest... I played that for 2-3 hours and didn't understand it.. when I rage, I want to just throw something at a wall, namely my mouse, but then I realize that its a nice mouse and I need it for pretty much everything I do. Of the original games? Yes. Of the actual content being uploaded? No.

Apparently free advertising isn't good enough for Nintendo, they also expect you to pay them for the privilege of advertising their games. So many years.....I NEVER EVEN KNEW Is it from Quake? http://i.imgur.com/QQo8Lr2.png That username though Okay. I'll throw copies of Mass Effect at them. Oh god i hated that guy, he was so annoying with his calls. MK8 DLC is 11 for 16 tracks, 6 characters, 8 vehicles and 16 additional skins which you can use either online or offline - excellent value in my opinion   I saw that just last night. It's near the south east of Crestwood just south of the southern camp. It's at Judith's house with is the end of a side quest. Don't have the right tools right now, but I'd go for something like WASD in a pyramid with a mouse hanging from it You could also skip his fight completely by sniping him when you first saw him just before he was wheeled inside by a guard! 360 or 1? You know... I want to play a Mass Effect where I CAN date the non-humaniod aliens. 

***Jellyfish plant sex, ho!*** Yeah. Also, I feel like Max *deserves* a peacefull retirement.  i have no problem with the reinterpretation of armor, aliens and weapons. It's a new game and with new limitations. I don't want the limitations of the previous game dictade the new one.

new game=new interpretation of casual things like weapons, aliens, ... Oh yeah, I'm really glad I didn't spend anything on it. I almost considered getting the GOTY edition (or whatever it's called with the DLC and stuff included) because it was only like $6. But then it was free so yay.  Me?

Dude, I hardly even know you. Why are you talking to me as if you know me? Strange how the guy who owned this domain was banned from reddit 4 days ago for spamming.

And your account is 4 days old. If you want a logical explanation, consider that there's no atmosphere to cause friction and tear apart the ship in space. This is trying to kill Merasmus in Scream Fortress 2012. I made a hole in my desk when he disappeared right before we could fully deplete his health.

Only instance a game has made me blindly destructive. No game company would make such an ad these days.  If your girlfriend looks like [this](http://bloximages.chicago2.vip.townnews.com/tucsonlocalmedia.com/content/tncms/assets/v3/editorial/8/1c/81ce377a-a224-52e3-b38e-c3b721f6e578/4d8b6030c34a9.image.jpg), shes probably a keeper.  Ok... So there are 3 problems here.

1.) You have a desk that is not constructed from fine sturdy wood.

2.) You seemed to have placed subwoofers on you desk.

3.) WHY ARE YOU PLAYING DARK SOULS WITH A KEYBOARD He's wrong about Halo 2 being the final game, it was always going to be a trilogy similar to the Marathon trilogy.

However, Bungie did infact intend Forerunner to be ancient humans. It was retconned when Bungie passed the reins to 343i. Well when you have anger issues you can't really control yourself and the only thing that makes it seem like your anger and rage will be remedied is if you cause damage or harm to something. It's like swearing when you get hurt, except it's even less acceptable. 

Source: I use to be filled with a lot of rage. Legitimate proof already exists...that is why you are banned and your career is over. LMAO fucking moron. This just makes me sad to hear. I just want to go hug my mom now. XD XD In case you were wondering, thongs are a thing. THis game did many things nicely. But at the same time some stuff were really terrible, like the sex scenes were really cringy and the last act was so left field it was silly. It's also like they forgot/cut an act before the end.


That mirror scene in the begining messed me up for a long time too lol. Also, I doubt you could get Dark Souls to work on OSx I too enjoyed Too Human. It had so much potential. I have no doubt that the sequel will be amazing. Good god. I'm sorry that happened to you.
Glad you've found better in life. That's the only thing that makes sense.  There is no icon for "console", so why is there a logo for "PC"? That is an impressively subtle timeline killer (I'd never even noticed it in my play throughs of Sunshine). Bravo. 

That's the problem though, trying to cobble together a timeline like this is always going to require that you ignore a lot of information and only show what fits it. I guess it was done more out of a bit of fun than suggesting an actual timeline that Nintendo were working towards. 

Ultimately though, looking through any number of games would likely come up with a whole host of timeline breakers, particularly with the need to include the Mario Kart series, as well as the party games in general. 

Example: Mario Kart DS is jammed awkwardly in between the two Luigi's mansion games to satisfy his idea about the poultergusts (you know, because he'd make the first few to take on ghosts, then make one a kart, then back to the ghosts). He then goes on to "explain" Mario Kart as being post "battles with Bowser", yet Bowser is playable and perfectly happy to do so in Mario Kart DS, despite being before "Bowser giving up" as he put it. 

Example 2: Bowser is quite clearly the enemy in many Mario Party games, yet here he's meant to be joining Mario for leisurely activity. 

Example 3: He says Mario got rich in 'New' Super Mario Bros. 2, and whilst I appreciate the joke about the abundance of coins, by that logic it should be after Luigi's mansion that all happens, because Luigi is utterly, utterly loaded following it. 

All that aside, it's quite impressive that someone bothered to try and cherry pick what little story there is from this many games to create a timeline, even one with obvious inconsistencies.  oooooooooh got it. 

But I have a Mac soo..... HE QUIK BROWN FO JUPS OER HE LA DOG He's a British [caf racer](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Caf%C3%A9_racer) I hate to stereotype here, but *every* caf racer or fan I've met tends to be a douche and ask completely inappropriate questions. yeah like you can get every guard to chase you and just kill all of them Dark Souls makes me feel like a battered wife, because every time it kicks my ass I know deep down that it was my fault. what a sus-daddy fuck boi. I would have had you all warm and wrapped up in blankets the whole time. 

and then id ASK for some vicodin. ;) BOTH. No, this was someone who died while playing Diablo III in hardcore mode (where you lose the character forever.)  If you don't slam something into that desk, it doesn't break like that.

Or it wasn't a random break in this case, at least.

http://i.imgur.com/fgup5.jpeg

But yeah, having a glass desk is a stupid idea anyway.

 ;) Aliens are all I've wanted in a horror game premise for a while now, I really hope this pulls it off. So far so good!
 A wizard did it.

 Exactly, I hate when people try to explain art direction changes with shitty lore.

Bungie gave Halo to 343i, that is why everything sounds and looks different. It comes down to glass selection.  Most are 1/4" annealed if they're well supported by a metal frame as this one appears to be, and some are 3/8" if designed to span a bigger gap. 

Mine is 5/8" tempered (much tougher than annealing).  I have no qualms about standing on it.  The glass company who made it guarantees it can hold 900+ pounds in my use. 

The big safety risk with my desk is though the edges are beveled the corners aren't rounded.   I went to run around my desk one and cut my ass open on it through my jeans.  I would not recommend a non-rounded corner glass desk if kids were in the house.  If you are interested in playing Xbox One games then there's very few choices, as very few wheels are compatible. The G27 is not.

Also the G27 is not compatible with the PS4. Just saying this in case you want to try out GT7. It's a computer? The base game for LotR:BfME2 was 6 I think. 6 install, and the first one to play/start the game. See I stopped playing after 2 and the problem I had with Ezio was that he was annoying, I liked Altair because he felt less like an affluent Italian man playing dress up and more like a trained assassin. ok reading down this comment chain was making me sad, but now im happy!!!

Im glad to hear you are happy! You deserve to be treated like gold, when gold was worth even more. :P Which game? This is what me and my friends do with our penises. Yeah, she's ugly, but she sure can cook, baby! &gt; Halo has no mention of armor-upgrading nano robots until the specific moment they need to change Master Chief's armor

Book-wise, I think they might actually mention it before that.

I've only read Fall of Reach but I think it was mentioned in there. It's possible that I'm confusing having learned it there with having learned it on Reddit, though. I think the OS logo or Steam symbol is the only option. You can't put a logo on a platform that is so diverse. Nobody has heard of tan pants? But by constantly comparing themselves to Sim City, they are proving that it's still the elephant in the room. Oh god... That is the same desk I have pretending I'm a superman!!! That's the normal death screen though, not HC. THKBNFJSTHLAYDG

well...I suck You think that chair was bad? lol
Had a mate where it was no leather left on the chair, only yellow-brown foam left and it had a row of boogeymen on the right side.
30 year old Stressless chair.

Anyways true, he should probably change the chair. Personaly have a chair falling apart, and it's a pain to sit on it. Head to a pawn shop, they'll usually do a stack of disks for like $5 And you should "probalby" check your spelling. 

*drops mic and flies off to Grammar Nazi concentration camps* Honestly doesn't bother me much at this point, as there are higher ups that can look into the issue and handle both your accounts and the domain entirely that have been made aware of the issue. Good luck hooker face? &gt; I find it amazing that they made a game that is so challenging but rewards skill so well (and isn't unfair).

There really isn't a modern game that does it better. Although the game can be brutal at times (making it through a 15 minute section perfectly and then accidentally falling off a cliff causing you to start all over? ouch) when you die you can always blame lack of focus or poor planning over bad luck. What caused that scar probably caused it to be irreparable by the system is what I am saying. Too much damage to the suit. I say we keep it and turn it into a meme. But it definitely has better looking games than the other 2 shits  Yup. Origin's in game UI constantly crashes and then forces me out of DA:I because the game has to be online. Steam's doesn't.  This is my boy right here. 

 Again, I said in this case it may have been a rage problem. But generalizing from this one incident to saying "but not a problem unless you're hitting it" for all cases is incorrect. 

Actually, I dare say that a blunt impact, like a rage induced hand smash, is likely not to damage a glass desk unless you either hit it really, really hard (hand breakingly hard) or manage to hit just right on a stress point. 

Mostly what gets tempered glass is sharp point impacts, especially from ceramic materials. Which is why you can throw a piece of spark plug right through a side window of a car with almost no effort. Tempered glass fails catastrophically from even a minor chip. 

So, again, no, no glass desks for me. While such events may be rare, they happen enough that I'll pass on taking that risk, thanks. While you can break a wooden desk, you have to apply a fairly large force. It won't just explode under a minor impact or from a manufacturing defect. Haha love that. Maybe it confused you cause I replied to the wrong comment but my statement stands. And also, what if I do mean you? You are the one posting stupid shit about people being property then changing your mind and condoning cheating cause of sexual frustration. YOU refer to YOURSELF as ok with cheating.  The probalblitiles are ednless! I was going to buy this desk. Please tell me that you did this to it and it didn't just break on its own? I'd stick to Flash games while you heal.  There's a billion of them, and are largely mouse-only. The censored version came out on Steam.

IIRC "Fahrenheit" (GOG) has a rape scene, "Indigo Prophecy" (Steam) does not. Problem is, there is now divergence between Windows.

Steam has a number of "Not for windows XP" on games.

A number of games won't work on XP, Linux has always been like that (although you can probably get anything to work if you are willing to manually sort it out), Apple is no doubt similar. Thank God I wasn't the only one! Front page of reddit... Priceless Don't get me wrong I would never bash nintendo it just always makes me laugh haha! And yeah it is even though I don't own one I am really excited to see what the next zelda and starfox will be. Now if only they would bring back fucking metroid in a proper fashion. I get the smashed table, but did he also start viciously chewing on his chair in rage induced frenzy? Yes, I did.  They could benefit from merging logos.   Wow, you had to literally run away? I'm sorry that happened to you  I have the exact same desk, same color as well. Please tell it took a ton of force to cause that haha. Maybe I just won't play Dark Souls anymore. I disagree. Steam is in a lot of ways superior. I have nothing against EA, their client is good, but Steam has better features, and a better selection. Steam has also had a lot more time to develop into what it is now. I would like for Origin to grow the same way Steam has, but it's not there yet. I have 333 GabenCoins. this game also had anti-gravity tracks. whish came to mario cart Wii-u Damn at least I am a single 28 year old guy that yells at my TV in my own home.  WAY BETTER The guy had his subwoofer sitting on it. I think the constant vibrations over time weakend the glass allowing it to shatter more easily I prefer this kind of shitpost to most of r/gaming. At least it's funny. The Legend of Zelda and WWHD? Metroid is on Wii Virtual Console and then the Nintendoland minigame? Trust me I'm not bashing nintendo or your suggestion. Just making a light joke. Nintendo is starting to become much more appealing recently. Now they should bring back metroid in the form of the prime series...that would KILL they would get so many fucking sales. Could try a turn based rpg. I have that exact same computer desk. When my wife and I moved in together she brought it from her parents. 

I hate it and wish this would happen. Alpha Protocol. Despite the bugs and, to some, clunky interface, there's a gem underneath. What!? Really!? You mean she's conditioned from birth to send a signal into dark space that will awaken an army of emotionless villains that will try to destroy everything in my world?

That does sound like an ex of mine There are always little, minuet objects floating around.  Good.  dont want to have different physics for every strike/mission i do. Shitty post. Mass Effect is awesome tho. Says the guy to blame for me breaking a glass desk when playing Crash Landing... Even though it literally flat out tells you both in dialogue and in the record terminals on the forward unto dawn that cortana make adjustments to the old armor over time resulting in the current. Mr. Resetti was such a DICK I was looking for a controller and just kept thinking "Well, there's your issue. You were using a keyboard. You deserved that death." They're proven to increase the average enthusiasts typing speed by a significant (not huge, but significant) amount. Never mind a whole bunch of other benefits.

I'm typing on one right now. That's just collateral fap damage.  I think you can play most platformers with just one hand.  There are some one handed remotes for console that I used for rpgs (mostly for cheetos lol).  Might be a gen or two back, but that makes it cheaper!  [Just walk away.](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XPY5P0TaC4k) oh god i probalby should ~~of~~ have checked the spelling before i reposted it  this is why I didn't buy a glass table. Oh boy I don't know that that would count as an easter egg.  If you are any good as a completionist you'd have found both rings, that says "wear... clock..." and "...in ... tower".  Pretty damn obvious. have this set as my ringtone. sometimes I don't even answer the phone so I can listen to the song. The title reminded me of that creepy "Out of this dimension" level from StarFox. In college we're taught to attack the problem, not the person. Some churches do the same, at least the good ones. What makes you think I'm referring to myself? Can I not engage an issue that affects Men and speak simply as a Man? People can do that, right? 

Stop pretending to speak for me, it makes you look inbred.

Back to the Issue, the Discussion was about Failed Relationships. Don't be so fucking shocked when people discuss Cheating when talking about Failed Relationships, lest someone consider you even more Inbred than you actually are. I use rares and I usually finish in the top 3 every match. It isn't anywhere near as unbalanced as people claim. Lots of people don't even have exotics in Crucible.

They nerfed the Mythoclast in December. It isn't much better than a hand cannon now. Your friend put it on your channel? Strangely, this question gets asked *a lot.*

You might want to search out one of those other threads for even more suggestions. What headset was that? 200%?  Psh..  Rookie shit.

I think 201.6% is full completion. Asshole! Dwarf Fortress i still would rather have the boba fett game. I would say the keyboard is still intact too, I can't tell with the speakers. Looks like just the table and monitor are the only 2 casualties.  yeah No, I believe he has to unlink it from his account. But you won't get in trouble as this is the "gamesharing" feature that was announced with the xbox one, enjoy your for now free games :) Or it broke while he was alive, and then he died because he couldn't use the keyboard to dodge the monsters he was fighting and/or was too distracted taking the picture. 

It's still fake, but that was my first reaction when I saw it, knowing how short that death screen is.  Mmmmmm hmmmmm. FTL is a pretty solid game one-handed, from my experience, you can bind the pause button to your mouse and then you have all the time to think. Also you can try Civilization or, maybe, anno 2070. Can confirm, using google reverse image searching. Imagine what this game would be like if limbs could be detached. Sweet, I was hoping there's be a sword in the game. This is Shadow Of The Colossus. Originally for PS2, but the version shown in the picture is the HD remaster running on PS3. Phenomenal game, well worth your time if you've never played it.  I was in the same situation a few months ago and I would play platformers that required just jumping mechanics to get my games fix. Best of luck with recovery mate.  Give ya a buck. Reddit is such a kind place for people Reddit deems worthy of kindness.  I prefer the theory that all of the Mario characters, and all of his adventures, are just video games in another universe. A lot of these inconsistencies make more sense when you think of it that way. I don't feel sorry for her at all. She raised an asshole, she got an asshole. Quit enabling, it's not my job to provide sympathy for all those who go around inflicting themselves with harm. Still cracks me up that they wear safety vests considering what they are.  It looked kinda average before all the updates. Now it seems to be a contender. Am i right or is it just average? My only gripe with origin is having 2 separate places that my games are stored. If I could transfer my entire steam library to origin, I would seriously consider switching. Not quite. The windshield tends to be laminated glass, which is a bit different and quite a bit stronger. The side and (usually) back windows are tempered glass though.

And you can fuck up tempered glass fairly easily. Scratch or chip it, even a little, and it will catastrophically fail. Ceramics are really good for this, which is why you can toss a sparkplug through the side glass of a car with minimal effort. What tempered glass is good for is blunt impact. You can pound on a piece of tempered glass with a closed fist and, as long as you don't hit it on a stress point, you are more likely to break your hand than the glass. THE QUICK BROWN FOX JUMPS OVER THE LAZY DOG

MacBook Pro FTW

(I have a Corsair K95 w/ reds at home. Not a portable keyboard though.) murder him? Where. When. Why do I not have it in my eyes yet. This picture tells a story.  That would explain the mutants that attend Ibrox &amp; Parkhead. NSFMR  Well of course you won't use hyperspace to go a few hundred miles...but a few million it might be worth it. 10 bucks says there are dumbasses out there who if they saw an apple logo, would freak with excitement because they think it's coming out for iphone. Nope. Sometimes brainwaves also can be very depressing Hahaha I just died Its ok, i know how ya feel. Beat the first boss, "this isnt that hard i dont know what all the fuss is about!". (Five minutes later) "ahhhh, FUCK THIS SHIT I QUIT!!" THEQCKBRWFXJVERTHELAZYG THIS.  i will never get a glass top anything.  i once fell through a glass table changing a light bulb.  part of my left foot's smallest toe cut open.  hospital, stitches, etc. I am deffinatly looking for kotor more MMN3DSxl systems confirmed?  I'm...sorry? (not actually sorry) I know people loved the MP demo for Lost Planet one, but they all cared less for the game and its successors. *Chill* down man, it's all *cool*. Why did you break up?

...

I'm kidding. How does this even happen? I've broken a fair share of controllers in my day, but this is next-level sh** I rage pretty hard, but I never break anything. Woot for that yellow rockstar! Booooooooo. By the look of that chair, whoever this was died a long, long time ago.  This is just a situation where no one bothered to bury him/her yet. Ha, I was kidding. I typed that on a standard, wired Dell keyboard at work. I'm not sure what you're referencing though with the second part of your post. I would assume your keyboard is QWERTY as well, most keyboards are? Don't tell people not to try a game. I've been having a blast with Destiny, even though the story/exploration mode was a massive let down. I wouldn't pay full price for it, but anyone who's a fan of a good shooter should try it out. Of course, by "value" the OP could mean the value to be obtained by getting a sucker to pay them via bloated ebay nonsense.  I was very lucky to get a nice big island with three ships nearby. There was only 3 rocks on it but i found two machetes and an axe. Keep looking for shipwrecks that's the only way to find good loot. I got a compass too.  NSFMR Everyone gets be the zombie since they postponed hard copies sadly I have that table. Got it for $100 from office max i love the blacks in my steelseries 6gv2. i think everything comes down to preference. Back in my day, we didn't post random pictures of 20 year old games on Reddit...because we didn't have 20 year old games...or the internet... And landed on his feet. I was impressed by his cat-like prowess.  Wait a second, if Talion were to shave his head... Shepard? Is that you?! Damnit Leroy. Well done you for your bravery. It's difficult sometimes for people to comprehend how reprehensible actions like that can become normalised for the victim. People often say afterwards, "Why didn't you tell anyone?", and it's like, 'what would you tell?.' That desk looks like it was purchased at a Staples. Congrats on breaking it, the tempered glass on those was actually pretty heavy.  *Urdnot Nothing flies over my head. My reflexes are too quick. I would catch it.  80's london. Lots of football (soccer if you're an arsehole) firm classes, tracksuits, duran duran, neon. Basically vice city but grey and miserable How can there be 800+ upvotes in a shit thread with &lt;40 comments? There's got to be something going on. This is really kind of scary... because I have the same exact desk. With my computer on it...

My old roommate had the same desk, and his spontaneously exploded last year as well. I chocked it up to a fluke, but now this post has me quite worried... It's really sad how long I had to search, to find this one guy who knows what "service" means Bored in work?
 Just another one of the let downs destiny wrought Gotta learn to change the Shift+Tab shortcut. I'm sick of trying to open an inventory while sprinting and then getting steam all up in my face. Except for MK8's "battle mode." Seriously...what were they thinking? Thought you had taken down a griffon for a minute Dude, I have the same desk as well. Let's see whose blows up first! Why did you have [to remind me](http://www.reddit.com/r/WTF/comments/109awg/you_thought_the_shoebox_was_bad_my_cousins/)!! Ahh must be a console screenshot, because no decent PC gamer would allow such jaggies and horrible graphics. Sir, you might want to buckle up. https://uproxx.files.wordpress.com/2014/03/pun-dog-pun-husky-00.jpg?w=650 You can still scan her from afar. (   ) Sonic Adventure DX Plus, they are helping him to get the ladies somehow because everyone he knows keeps dying.... Yeah, she was having a robot period. HE QUIK BRON FO JUPS OER HE LA DOG

+1 my brother had just send me a picture that way, and i was confused and send him one back of what i had crafted. And update restarted my island, so i couldn't take a screen shot.  It is permanently destroyed. If your alliance happens to have spare ones then you can get back on very quickly but if another titan needs to be built that could take months. I'm sure a lot of big alliance have constant titan construction. Still get annoying 14 yr olds with ut's full of 5* skill players. Nice chilled set up though Personally. IT's not worth $100. 

The fact that he's throwing 3 nes games that are common doesn't make it any better. still better ugly logo than no logo - PC only gamer /r/shittybattlestations
 Okay party pooper. Of course you CAN. Doesn't that kind of defeat the purpose of do it yourself rather than have someone else do it.

Besides, getting it done at a trophy shop or something costs like $30 or more per glass. The paint and vinyl for all 4 of these was $10. You have some anger issues you need to address..... If you look closely it actually says: 'YOU DIBD'. if you're into RTS games I'd suggest Sins of a Solar Empire and its expansions.  I've spent 8+ hours playing just a single match in that game (usually my go time game if my internet crashes or i'm without access for some reason).  time will fly by too.  really fun game. Yeah I know someone like this too. He does have a legit medical problem but he says that it doesn't really hurt too much so he could work but he chooses not to and sits back while the government paychecks roll in. Meanwhile I'm working my ass off to make a little more than he does sitting on his ass all day and getting high. I will never understand why men think that the best way to shut down a feminist is a rape threat.  Its just making their case and damaging men's reputation.  If you don't like the feminist movement, then make a rational argument.  Don't make the rest of your gender seem as stupid as you are. "probalby should **HAVE** checked the spelling" If you are familiar with the parody series Freeman's Mind would you say Valve are the creators of that?
 been playing this again on Playstation Now.  so much fun and an epic soundtrack. I remember playing this on PS2, and finding the QT events really fucking annoying.   maybe 343 has no idea what they are doing You can get the mark VI armor in halo 4 and it looks different than Chief's Poontang Pie. Then there could be seperate icons for each os. I know some games come out for only Windows. Either way, the glass in the chair suggests no one was sitting in it when the table broke. Though the spread of the glass suggests a strong impact. 

I suppose he could have been standing.  But games should be made for all three OS's anyways. City Escape.

Sonic Adventure 2.

/thread Pretty sure CRT rage-quits are the reason my hands are so fucked up now. MarioKart and Smash Bros did not treat me well This is the straw that broke my /r/gaming camel's back. I dont need this shit on my frontpage.  That is hilarious The fuck you talking about?  I would consider myself a beer enthusiast and I can stop anytime I want!!!! Very, slow day today! I like it, but maybe as a wallpaper for eyefinity of something, that resolution is massive. 

^^^^I'm ^^^^also ^^^^commenting ^^^^to ^^^^try ^^^^and ^^^^hide ^^^^that ^^^^idiot ^^^^below ^^^^me i should go  That sounds almost exactly how my upbringing was. Dad worked hard to make sure we had a good life. I got my first job when I was 16 and starting paying for my own things. I'm glad I learned from when I was little that working is just a part of life and that I'm not one of those kids that has everything handed to them. I've worked hard for everything that I have and I'm very proud of it. But I just found out yesterday that the place I work for is closing in a month. Boss says we'll still have our jobs when it reopens but he says a lot of things. Just bought an original Xbox a couple weeks ago and this was the first game I completed on it. Never played it when I was younger (because parents), but that level left me swearing an awful lot. Modern gaming has spoiled me with thumbstick fluidity that's for sure.  I'm Commander Shepard and this is my favorite post on Reddit! To be fair, they tend to use tempered glass nowadays. So, even though the glass goes *everywhere* it isn't really going to hurt you overmuch. You end up with these cube ish pieces of glass that feel more gummy than sharp versus large chunks of sharp as hell death you'd get from normal glass. You'd end up with a lot of little paper cut type of scratches and several showers needed to get the shit off of you. Just would like to confirm if I actually am having a dyslexic stroke or if this is real life I haven't played this, so I never bothered to read any of the hype/reviews. But what happened? I saw tons of hype about it, then it came out and everyone said it was terrible. Why was there so much hype, and what's so bad about it? Right which is why I stated that it's more dangerous than difficult. Flying between mountains is not hard. Dangerous yes but difficult I wouldn't agree with that. When you have a hill right in front of a runway it requires a good bit of practice to get right especially at a short field like Barths. Yes the go around options are much better at St Barths but again like I said, that doesn't make the landing any easier. You could theoretically mess up that landing 10 times in a row due to not being on the right approach path. Being on the wrong approach path most likely means coming in too high which leads to an increase in approach airspeed and much more float by the time you get down to the runway. At Lukla you have a straight shot to the runway. If you don't get it the first time then there are other problems.

Also, ask any pilot and they would prefer an upsloping runway(Lukla) to a downsloping runway(St Barths) for landing.

Either way both approaches are not straightforward and require a special rating to be able to land at either field.

Edit: a word Either go wit 343i shitty canon, where suddenly Mijolnr armor has nanobts that upgrade the armor when innactive. Or do what sane people would do, think of it as the 343 artists interpretation of the original mk VI. I wonder if humans team up with the normal aliens against zombies in this movie. L
or: TIL ghosted. FADC Nah man logos are meaningless You are probalby just imagining things. This is the dumbest, corniest joke I've ever upvoted. Congrats I guess  Hot damn that series ended on a low note. I had almost forgotten. No stroke sir. This is real life.  That's an old like 2004-2010 Apple Cinema Display. The 30" 2560x1600 version cost $3300  Jesus Christ... Why did I laugh at this... Well, she does self-destruct when I try to get to know her better... That's how most of my relationships work :') Wrex. I can cofnirm for you, it is real. Your side and back windows are tempered so you don't have shards when they break in crashes and rescues. Your windshield is laminated so that when debris hits it, it does *not* spray you with glass and remains relatively intact. Your other windows are not at risk of being hit by rocks, birds, and baseballs at high speed while driving. As a good a reason as any. Yeah those things were durable. I had an eMachines CRT monitor and I've dropped while moving it before and it didn't break. I really want that tower, I would gladly put my build in it. Steam is a platform, Valve is the company
Humble Store and GOG are more stores than platforms, but still they aren't they company names (Humble Bundle and CD Projekt) Ah, buckle this! LUDICROUS SPEED! *GO!* I agree, marriage is petty nonsense. Here's the footage I mentioned. I wondered what happened to the little girl...

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=J2TSCZqcjR0 Have yet to play another max payne due to this.  So much hate  Idk why but I can smell this room  Was that the moment he became your ex? I have almost that exact desk at home. I hate it - it's permanently grubby. Dwarf Fortress is by no means mainstream and I get where you are coming from. It's niche but also one of the deepest games around. Amazingly humorous events unfold and each game feels very personalized. 

If you would like to check it out see [Starter pack](http://dffd.bay12games.com/file.php?id=7622)

And there are tons of learning resources on Youtube. LP's and tutorials and such. It will help to ease the learning curve and get you settled.
 I wonder if this gives them any sort of power or influence over youtubers or reviewers using the program. Are they able to strip the licensing from people who are pointing out problems/giving unfavorable reviews or just generally saying things they dont like? Hah, I get it. Well...shit eh? Quake 3!! Yeah!! 

Quake 3 Team Arena was lame.

Daemon Gate was awesome.

I actually own a few of those doom extra level game disks. 
It's awesome. You're never the only one to notice; you're the only one retarded enough to think anyone else cares. To put it precisely: For every epsilon &gt;0, for every person distinct from you, the measure of that person's care for this is less than epsilon.

Edit: For a "nerdy" sub, this place sure hates math jokes. You better start believing in bullshit stories mate. You're in one.  I think narcissism is becoming more common but it's not a catch-all just yet.  I'm not familiar with it. Does it use actual in game footage, or something else? Stop fucking with my mindbrain It's corny, but its cute. =) You're clearly unfamiliar with the roots of marriage. Then I want out NO BOTS I thoroughly enjoyed several games on the terribly rated system Philips CD-i. Dimo's Quest is one of my favorite games of all time. Mario Hotel was a blast as well as the Wacky World of Miniature Golf. It is a guy playing Half-life 1 and narrating the events via the thoughts of Gordon Freeman. 

It is most excellent. Don't say that. 
We all loved the Original (And Dark Arisen.)
I'm just scared about the P2W items. How many people on here have heard of Populous:The Beginning? People will just throw upvotes at anything, won't they? That is the one that I hated most, for some reason I just could not figure out that you had to make him slam on the hard surface to crack his arm band so I spent 45 mins just trying to time a good jump so when he jolted his sword up I would get launched with it. So many barley misses happened until I made him accidentally slam down on the concrete area and then I realized how much of a moron I was for not seeing it sooner. I think everyone had "that one collossus" that they could not figure out for the longest time and for me it was this fucker right here.
 I wouldn't be able to enjoy my Christmas break with finals lingering over my head the entire time, that's sounds like hell. Calm down man no one is asking you to stay  i broke my brother's gameboy when i was 5 by skull bashing the screen playing Yoshi's island 3 after raging on world 3 level 5 Its visual acuity is based on movement. Does that mean Khan is boat-dad in Wind Waker? Or temperature variation. I cut glass by scoring it, then alternatingly running it under hot and cold water. Changing temperature causes the glass to change size ever so slightly. Being such a rigid material, those slight changes exaggerate any nicks or imperfections. context? ahurhurhur! No one can appreciate a quality shitpost these days Paint me like one of your french corpses Yeah I hated what 343 did with it, far as I was concerned it was falo *fake halo* like when you try to buy nikes at the swap meet but they only have psyches. The way my little Logitech sub shakes the walls of my room and the rooms around and below me? Haha. You're asking for this. Why waste such a GREAT picture with a typo... Wasn't he a gardener in the first game? The "pipe" where supposed to be plant pots, his enemies being turtle and mushrooms, and a few others... It was mentioned in the game manual

Edit: As mentioned, the manual doesn't mention it precisely, but the French translation say [the piranha plants comes out of plants pots](http://boid.in/wp-content/uploads/2014/05/modedemploi-4.jpg), not pipe. Dunno about other manuals If you got stung all you'd have to do is pee on your own dick. Fuck it. You put the name of the game in the title, unlike most of the people that post here. Have an upvote. I'm glad this is the top comment. I saw this post on my feed with 1373 points and I was like,"lol wut?"  Clelarly!  Connie is my favorite video game character ever. He gets the best swords. Did you hear about the kidnapping at school?

Its ok, he woke up. The only way for that to be true would be if nobody cared.

I care. 

Your argument is invalid Its even worse in the comics. A spartan team (team black) is shown in the halo 3 armor, while the chief has the h4 armor. Or just don't be a dick Never will I ever buy a glass desk. Icon was a damned tragedy, it was TERRIBLE, and SO much worse after coming after two truly epic fighting games.

Plus if you weren't into rap, you could enjoy just slamming Sean Paul's head in a car door for minutes at a time :)

I just don't quite get how they made Icon quite SO bad. I can't give you context or it'd ruin the moment for you when you play it. That's something I wouldn't do to my worst enemy, as I envy anyone who is yet to experience this game for the first time!  Shut up and take my money. Culdcept?  Yeah really, what does everything think throw pillows are designed for? Maybe he's already left? Definetly real life That sucks about your job.

Keep your head up.  There are other outlets out there and with your upbringing, like mine, you probably realize there are no jobs "too bad" for you. "When women do bad things you can't make generalisations about them, but when men do bad things it reflects poorly on their gender as a whole" Sonic All-Stars would like a word with you. it is I have no complaints gets the job done
 What about the boot buckles? So is it some holiday that I was unaware of where everyone upvotes the shittiest post possible? *prlolblalbly I had to turn the volume wayyyyy down because my mom was like "what the hell is crying in there?" And playing with almost no volune adds to the difficulty I'll be sure to bring a male Volus into the bedroom with me then. They must have a thing for watersports. Hmm okay. I might jump back in and give it a go. I always liked the idea of the game. I am a PvPer at heart so if a game fails in that I don't play it. Isn't this thing sturdy? It would take a superman or superman-esqe strength punch to get that thing cracked.  Perhaps it was the pleasure of taking a rap star you particularly disliked and getting to repeatedly kick him in the happy sack? :D "I'm Garrus Vakarian and this is my rectum." Heh. "I have the ability to have every music service/YouTube video playing in the background of my PC games, but I don't wanna have to switch between tabs" This, ladies and gentleman, is what humanity has become. We have a magic light box capable of virtual realities, but it's just so much work to switch tabs... Cause it makes you sound like you're tying to be smart Aaaand there are no nanites. They aren't in the chief's generation of Mjolnir armor. Red pill or the blue pill?  I think Minecraft had more to do with it, but KSP certainly helped the cause. no Actually, they both are. Just play Warframe with Destiny's soundtrack playing in the background.  Maybe preferentially if you like the art style of games on the Wii U. But in terms of actual graphical capabilities, the Xbox one and PS4 win out.  Is this a Turtle Beach Ear Force Z22 headset? Humble Store is growing nicely as well. I still chuckled We call those people heathens.  Gaming headsets? ew. Why not the Playstation Wireless gold headset? I think I got the one for ps3...but I assume they have a ps4 one, and it's almost certainly capable of working with the ps4. 

I bought it and use it for my PC because it's wireless and my cats ruined my past three sets of headsets / ear buds. It seemed to be similar if not better than other wireless sets.

It came out to $112 CAD or something like that, and it's just plug and play Live to win! Ba-dum, tshhh They don't hate math jokes; they hate that you called a random dude retarded No shit. $300 console vs $2000 "High End PC"
I would hope the pc was better.  And of course Henry Rollins and Machete himself, Danny Trejo :) Prolly not Me too. Even though I don't own one, I'm glad they are aware that not everybody can afford the jump to next gen, or maybe just doesn't feel like it. Where as xbox is pulling features from the 360 left and right. No theater mode in the recent COD games, (to promote the Xbone's built in pvr) and they took away the family pack for gold accounts. But it's cool, because Xbone has it so you should totally move to next gen. No Microsoft, fuck you. Half the reason I moves to ps4 was their sleezy sales tactics. Keeper in the basement. I suspect that if a sequel is produced that it will greatly improve upon the flaws I actually heard my own eyes roll. Shepherd. "Wow, this game is Politically Correct! That's amaaaaazing." &gt; It is such a shame that such technologically wonderful piece of hardware does not get proper software support.

Sony in a nutshell I like the Crew. Most people just saw it as GTA without getting out of the car. I just love cruising around the US and finding something new.  If you forget about the awful story game progession and just drive, it's actually an awesome game. Can I have a hint?  I think spotify has some sort of under the table contract with PC. Come to think of it, phones have it too! There's something weird going on... I was a huge fan of the ability to choose missions that affect the outcome of the next mission. I.e. Destroy generators in one level removes lighting from encampments in another place. Or parked tanks destroyed wont come out in another map. Fantastic If that's true then I have to admit it is a change I thoroughly approve of. The new books were fantastic and the Forerunner Human relationship is a much more interesting story.

TBH I feel Halo 4 captured the Halo Story in a way the other games really never did after the first game. Basing graphical prowess off of toilet paper, surely the item the dev team spent the most time on.  You should Look into the Logitech G430. They are a pc gaming headset but also work for the ps4 and are priced at 70. I purchased them when they were on sale for 40 and i can tell you they are one of the best headsets i have ever had.  I want to see it in a high framerate camera. Oh man, this and the second flying colossus are my favorite parts of my favorite game ever... The anticipation until this colossus charges at you at full speed from the air is something that can't be explained in words. Shadow of the Colossus is absolutely epic in every way, and anyone who has not played it yet must do so at some point in his life. :) Is this a PC game? Or was it on a PS1, PS2 or some other console? And do you know about what year you played it? I am sorry for the questions, it just helps narrow things down.

 Honestly, now that we will have spotify, I'll never need mp3 support. They said you can use the free account, you don't need premium. I don't mind a few adds here and there for a shit ton of free in game music :) Sure I liked God of War 1-3.

Ascension stunk. But that's not the point. Yes, it's the same studio. But none of the developers who worked on those games are on this project. The majority were fired after GOW 3.  Just because it's "nerdy" doesn't mean it's funny. 
Source: The Big Bang Theory  *probaby No I got a QWERTZ keyboard. Basically the letters Z and Y are switched and a lot of extra symbols like $; are in different positions. I also got . This is actually a good point I hadn't thought about. Those in the pack are constantly getting battered with shit, and the first place person pretty much only has to worry about red and blue shells. 

I think I mostly have a bitter view of the blue shell from playing single player to be honest. It was infuriating on the Wii version to get blue shelled and fucked over at the last minute when trying to unlock stuff. In Dragon age inquisition there is a character that is a spirit/Demon who has possessed the body of a character named come. What an odd coincidence Even "Steam" wouldn't tell you whether it was for Windows, Mac, or Linux. The distribution platform supports all three. Oh, okay, I guess I missed that. "It's only worth what someone is willing to pay for it."


-My Dad I don't get it. Like a bee keeper? New game having new things??  Damn, I must have missed that. Wanted.  The manual never said anything about him being a gardener. This is the entirety of the story as presented in the manual to Super Mario Bros:

&gt; One day the kingdom of the peaceful mushroom people was invaded by the Koopa, a tribe of turtles famous for their black magic. The quiet, peace-loving Mushroom People were turned into mere stones, bricks and even field horse-hair plants, and the Mushroom Kingdom fell into ruin.	
&gt; 
&gt; The only one who can undo the magic spell on the Mushroom People and return them to their normal selves is the Princess Toadstool, the daughter of the Mushroom King. Unfortunately, she is presently in the hands of the great Koopa turtle king.
&gt; 
&gt; Mario, the hero of the story (maybe) hears about the Mushroom Peoples plight and sets out on a quest to free the Mushroom Princess from the evil Koopa and restore the fallen kingdom of the Mushroom People.
&gt; 
&gt; You are Mario! Its up to you to save the Mushroom People from the black magic of the Koopa!

It's a reasonably close translation of the Japanese text. At no point in the manual does it say anything about who Mario is other than being the person you control, and that his goal is to rescue the princess. Might &amp; Magic Heroes? No no no, they said "X meets Y" we should be good He can't, he's a methmatician. Yeah I'd totally keeper the fuck away from my dick. Now all you need is a cat sitting on of your laptops.  Because the later PS1 consoles was smaller and a different color (white if I remember correctly).

 https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yyF66wPVmaU&amp;t=1m Here you go! 

http://www.hollywoodreporter.com/news/warner-bros-unveils-first-development-742586 Here you go! 

http://www.hollywoodreporter.com/news/warner-bros-unveils-first-development-742586 #BlacksNoClacks
#BrownsVolumeDown http://blogofholding.com/dungeonrobber/ Couldn't even be bothered to spell probably correctly? I meant online, of course. Not a big fan of trophy shops, personally. But the comment was for those people who may not have the time or steady hand to do it this way. let's call up Ogtha see if she might be into a 3-way Wouldn't it catch on fire and burn up in the atmosphere as well? Yes. Chivalry is very satisfying. I love how the swordplay isn't flashy at all either. Just very choppy and "meaty." Protip: **Don't crank up the view distance above about 40% if you value your performance.** There's a serious CPU usage issue above that and even on a modern 3570K+ cpu you'll be limited (I was seeing about 30 fps with my 3570K + GTX 970 when all my settings (including view distance) were maxed). "I was in a videogame..." *prochoice Does anyone have a link to the original story? Reverse image search only turns up a plethora of shitty clickbait.  THKBNFJSTHLAYDG Garrus. I still can't get over how big of a step back this game is from Dead Island

The melee still sucks, the weapons break too easily, the open world is just so brown and colorless. It is just ugly. Thanks, Ghandi! i don't like wireless its just annoying to me and I am close enough to my ps4 that I can just use the usb cord Battleon.com THE QUICK BROWN FOX JUMPS OVER THE LAZY DOG

Apple FTW I have that desk, full retail on it was 400, they don't sell it anymore thoughSource: Paid 89 for open box clearance five years ago [hmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmm](http://i.imgur.com/wuiyF82.png) You have to download that  The fact she **SAVED** shows she has her priorities straight.  She didn't take out a loan, use credit or use Rent-A-Center.  No... she literally saved her extra money for something big and special to her (and her family).  

I've done the same thing.  I've got three bikes that cost over 3K each.  Each one of those bikes took a year of dedicated saving before I could buy them.  ***SAVING*** for something is pretty much the definition of having priorities straight. Ive always wanted to play that game but scared it would feel dated. Is it still good? Dammit Shepard.... how are they any better then the ones I wanted god this was my first bioware game. now that I'm playing inquisition, I kinda miss silent protagonists &gt;Buying Azio anything.

found your problem :D They already do. Both have extremely strict rules on how their logo is displayed and the spacing between it and other platforms logos.  as the brother of the owner of the desk in the picture, there are a few things, one the picture is shopped and the original screen was a diablo 3 death screen(softcore, and he had died after the desk shattered), and two it was not from rage, he said he had been tapping a pretty heavy duty glass cup to the desk and then when he placed it down it shattered underneath.
 30 fps fighting game? No thanks. &gt; They advertise dozens of hours of content, but that content consists entirely of you grinding for gear on only four maps

So they advertised an RPG and gave us an RPG... I don't see the problem outside of people like you not understanding what an RPG is. WoW wasn't the game it is today when it was released either. Jesus fucking Christ, how do people still not get this;  

Nintendo doesn't want people creating fucking youtube videos using their products. These policies aren't 'stuck in the past', they're specifically designed to put people off creating these videos.  

Nintendo is a much more family friendly company than any other game maker out there - so when some bellend creates a Mario Kart 8 video to talk about how much he loves worshipping Satan or stuffed full of swearing and sexual references whatever and it goes viral, Nintendo gets a whole lot of shit they don't want to deal with from do-gooder busy body parents who either don't understand or don't care why it's unfair to blame Nintendo for it. Nintendos history over the last 30 years is full of this shit - just google all the controversies regarding Pokmon, like the time when the Pope himself had to come out and tell everyone to calm the fuck down about pokmon being about demon worship.  

Obviously, they're trading off a lot of free advertising for this, but obviously they've decided that they'd rather have it this way.   

I am so sick of watching the gaming community talk about Nintendo like Nintendo has no idea what it's doing - They're not the ones that don't know how to run a company here, you are.  The probalbility of two people spelling the same word wrong in a single thread is quite unlikely. as long as ludacris isnt jim bravura..or a BOSTON native (wahlburg) playing a NY cop. I say this with all the love for Wahlburg as I am a native new englander. I didn't know that was a thing! Cool.  ahem....don't you mean tights? creepy baby in the background? that's a big nope. thanks! That is surprisingly poetic...  I was about to say this. It was heavily critically acclaimed... But just had such limited quantity available.

I believe the only sequel was a tactics ogre game made for GBA. This game would be awesome for 3DS virtual console. We puttin holes in your residence

And lose anybody for the right president

We thugged out street niggaz with intelligence

So all that bullshit you yappin is irrelevant This is not a new trend, it's been around for a while, and you've been lucky to avoid it this long. There'll be a setting in the options menu to turn off notifications, though. Muslim? Seems like Heroes of Might and Magic III to me.

Best.  Game.  Ever. They hunger. this was not a rage quit or anything like that. the desk was over 6 years old and the death was in fact after the desk had broke.  (was softcore anyways)
go ahead and check my comment history from a few years ago when it was originally posted, and you'll see relatively similar comments, i'm the brother of the desk owner and was the only other person there that had to help him clean all that shit up, took like 3 hours and a few garbage bags full of tempered glass I don't get it, high tdp+amd GPU+?=cool What kind of maniac puts the subwoofer ON the desk? I don't get it, high tdp+amd GPU+?=cool I personally prefer CTR for PS1.  Although Nitro kart was miles better than Crash Tag Team Racing.... Ohhhhh that game.... Don't act like a douche then blame the sub when you get downvoted diablo, civ, sims, balders gate.  Well, I only have some half-knowledge of this, but isn't that still worse than if you make videos about the products of Nintendos competitors ?
Or do Sony and Microsoft take a 30% cut of your videos as well if you make a review about let's say Uncharted or Halo ? Oh.. You mean the PSOne? You do realise the original PS had many different versions with slight alterations over its production life, using different components, some even having different ports on them, etc? It's not really accurate to say they had disc drive issues or overheated etc, because most of them didn't. I used to leave mine running all day on pause if I couldn't save at a particular point and had to go to school. It never overheated and still functions to this day. My PS2 OTOH, wore out a lot quicker. The very first PS consoles actually came with incredibly GOOD disc drives that are still sought after by many for their impressive sound quality when used to play audio CDs. I respect your opinion, but I feel Halo 4 lacked a kind of subtlety and charm that the first 3 games had. It's hard to explain why the campaign didn't sit right with me, a lot of it had to do with the huge art direction and sound design changes I think, and the writing and pacing...I dunno.  Though I admit I haven't read the books.

Anyway, to each their own, I'm glad people enjoyed Halo 4. :] Shoot 'em if you got 'em. /Texas It's definitely the best pvp I've played in years. No question about it and it's definitely balanced. Almost too much at times. You have no idea what you're talking about. It wasn't her. It was her record label. The owner was looking to sell the label. In order to increase the value of the company, he pulled her off Spotify in hopes her record sales would increase. I just realised I've never seen a police woman in GTA. I wonder why It's the basic german layout. Not sure if other countries/languages use it as well. I know that french people also have their own layout and it's much more different. Who makes their little vests? What a child. Shame on the two of them. Yes, I faintly recall TBBT making jokes that actually relevantly use mathematical language in context - not. This is language from mathematical analysis (if you want to know). Nice try trying to sully my joke with something the "nerds" on this sub hate though.

The guy I replied to isn't well loved, his comment is now sitting at 0. I'm the douche for saying what you all can't eloquently express?  i would marry her and forget about saving the universe bullshit Add this to the [Ten Commandments of Mass Effect](http://www.adventuresinpoortaste.com/2012/04/09/10-commandments-of-mass-effect-3-multiplayer/):

"Thou shalt learn to spell properly when making ME related memes." Yeah, so the problem is the players that play more have better gear, welcome to an RPG. With that said, outside of Iron Banner, it's extremely balanced in PVP. Clearly your problem is skill. Any level 5 can walk into PVP without even a rare weapon and still finish at the top of the scoreboard. And get paid to do so.

...wait... +a sapphire aftermarket cooler. Is there a way to mine rocks yet? or have them respawn on islands? or is it once im all rocked out i have to risk my raft disappearing and get to another island? Whoa, it's live action? That should be interesting. $2 racing wheel? Damn, where'd you find that? Shepard. Probalby not.  The only settings I see are to mute sounds and music.  Hell, there was all those commercials where the geeky mofo was like "I'm a PC" and that other fellow was like "and I'm a mac" so you can blame those for the generalization.  That goes against the standing wisdom for every multiplayer FPS since pretty much the dawn of time.  Even in shit games like CoD, the unlocks are usually marginal upgrades, or sidegrades.  A good level 1 person is on almost equal footing to a max prestige person in CoD.  

In Destiny, unless there is just an insanely large skill gap between two players, the person with the better gun is going to win.  And now, with the introduction of new, better loot, and more access to weekly raids in The Dark Below, people who don't purchase the DLC will be at an even further disadvantage.

Destiny is one of the least balanced games I've ever seen, and I've been gaming for over 20 years. Or maybe OP isn't the one who took the image, and maybe it's shopped. Nah, he's still right. How does a troll with so many down voted comments still have positive karma? I swear I've seen this picture elsweyr... fastest delivery ever. Nice. Yes!  I didn't say you were a douche I said you weren't funny, but I'm sure we're all astounded by that big brain of yours. Technically, not even all of the atoms that makeup the earth existed at the big bang, most are the result of supernovae that occurred sometime after the big bang.  Most of the atoms that existed right after the big bang were hydrogen only.  Then they aggregate into stars until fusion begins, then the hydrogen gets burnt into helium...until iron forms and the star begins to die. DUUUUUUDE, TOO SOON What about that time he jumped with a bomb from a space station and Cortana was worried about if he missed? Ya know, the first level of Halo 2? Psh, a nice set of monitors are great. Though having a nice headset I can hear eevveerryy tthhiinngg. Well Ezio was annoying at first about the whole you killed my family shit but brotherhood and revelations he was just a badass and i definitely liked Altair, i also liked Connor and Edward. Really disliked Arno "This one has broken multiple intergalactic laws and committed a number of social taboos, and wishes to be referred to as a 'big stupid jellyfish.'" Nah. Just low income. lol south park showcased this trend quite elegantly.. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5CbWr0zO7Ac That's awesome. 

On a side note, how far into the game until you start getting into actual buildings rather than the Shanty Town?  I never owned a PS2 so I bought the remaster on PS3 and I think I would have loved it if the controls weren't so clumsy, I find it so hard to play. Had that exact desk, was about $70. The monitor is still on so that's probably still working, the speakers will be absolutely fine (worked in retail, we sold A LOT of 2.1 sets)

I don't condone his actions, but he's probably only going to need a new desk. did he died? I am pro Balby for council  That is true it would take the same amount of time to enter and exit.  Huh. Weird. No idea then. and I would find every single one of your girlfrineds...for the xp. Look here. Just put it under your shirt and blow man. It works. Second one opens normally but the first one just downloads a file. Not a clue. Second picture, HL3 confirmed. Dude, that sterio sound is so useful. Besides, I'm not buying a studio headset and mic for twice the cost when the difference is as negligible as it is. Or you can just play and get better ships for free... I dont go on reddit a whole lot. Care to explain shitposting Fair enough. well that is depended on the make up of this ship and what type of shielding it has.  i didnt really have "that one colossus" i liked them all and had almost no troubles with any, although i hated a couple for just being stupid, like the last guy, and the turtle with the water spouts. He was stupid to think that he is the only person in thousands to notice a blatant spelling error, and you're a dick for calling him retarded for it.  Well shit, I was going off the articles web address. I'm sorry :/ [Oh goodie](http://i.imgur.com/qRSK1eD.gifv), a small portion, at their discretion, of ad revenue gets to go to the people who are advertising their game and the fun Let's Players are having.  I've bought games I otherwise wouldn't have taken a second look at because of Let's Players putting it on Youtube. I guess you could play anything if you had a mouse like a G600, you could bind like WSAD to the mouse somewhere xD Would be pretty awkward but still had a logitech wireless, refused to use w and q or w and e at the same time, plus the said space issues. logitech likes to fuck with non gaming stuff to make it cheaper. its just mark VI parts not the full armor Shit...I have that desk Yes, but the ships you CAN purchase are no where near as cool as the ones you can get by simply playing the game and earning it as a reward. It's a dumb comment. I can just imagine the great "oh shit" moment that produced. Must have been great. &gt;commands *Procol Harum Catch them if you can.!. 360
 Could have been the subwoofer. Doesn't seem smart to put that on a glass desk. Get a particularly strong woof and ...  This is not my screenshot, found this on the steam community page and thought it was hilarious. :) I think your story is even worse...  At 24 he's pretty much emotionally mature for him...  which means he is likely going to be an adult with a child's maturity level.  If it were me, I'd probably insist that he buy a new TV with his own money or get the fuck out.  One thing is for certain, I would NEVER buy another TV for as long as he lived there. [Why is everything you post the same domain?](http://www.reddit.com/user/Soulja_Pryce/submitted/) Why not keep the same armor? It looked damn good, Halo 4's armor just looked kinda clunky. also a young daphne from frasier if your looky

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6bxoAsvhcOI I like it!

I made a crappy ms-paint concept thing.

http://imgur.com/2jbYyPk No need to be a negative Nancy. I was just expressing happiness with a fellow nerd. Lol but I guess the votes speak  for  themselves. 

For what it's worth, I thought you were clever, at least. :) But they call it different types of armor. The armor is different. Thanks for another repost of this. I'm not going to lie I just laughed out loud in class She sure didn't sound like one.  HE QUIC BROWN OX UMP OVER HE Z OG.

Wireless rapoo mechanical. Kinda disappointing. You win the prize. No other game has ever nailed scale quite so well. The world map and environments were huge, but each monster had an awe-inspiring sense of intimacy during their fights. 

My favorite would have to be the one that you had to run up his massive sword, after climbing up to the fight for 3 solid minutes. *POW* I will always see Barry as a Misfits reference, sorry guy. I don't know why, but even after reading the article I don't know what the program's function. I don't know what to tell you if you think the difference between a studio headphone and a ''7.1 gaming headset'' is negligible.

You're delusional. However, you completely ignore fair use. *Triggered
 &gt;the old.
&gt;got mine a few weeks back.
Very old Make it a Steam logo. Hut-hyaah. I remember when CTR came as a playable demo with Spyro! Me and my brothers would play the SHIT out of the demo and it wasn't until I discovered PS emulation (some 6 or so years later) that we were finally able to play the full version. Closer. THEN you think! 

don't worry about thinking before then. I'm not familiar with this game at all, can someone give me a size perspective on the dildo/bong ships? Did they ever mention why the Covenant were fighting the UNSC again, and why the Elites were back with them? I waited the whole game for an explanation and got none. There was a one off line when MC kills his first Elite along the lines of "I thought we had a truce with the Covenant?" and that was it as far as I recall. Haha, I know you weren't being totally serious! 

I guess it was never taught like we had lessons on it, it's just what I remember from teachers etc talking I think. 

Seems like it's open to interpretation at least though.

I'm still sure can't imagine people referring to Australia as a continent rater than Oceania though, it just seems wrong....  Doesn't matter. The Steam logo already appears in the place of PC for some game trailers. Like it should. And she keeps an excellent home! Just don't expect much riveting conversation, though. From now on, when I do drugs, I'm going to speak properly! ill send you a  copy of squirretlopia if you want. its a platformer that you can play only with arrow keys if you want That's a lot of saving of gbp Time to get a new chair Nintendo is like 5 years behind every other company at this point.  Elaborate?
 It's totally fair you think that, so upvote, but I actually loved the last 15 minutes, and not just because it was the climax. It was a 15 minute playable info dump. I had never seen that done in a game, and on paper, it should NEVER have worked, because info dumps are a huge no no in storytelling, especially at the end or beginning of a story. Yet somehow it worked. Then again, I enjoyed the rest of the game, too, for the most part. Way to go man. A little suggestion though, only weigh in once a month. Weighing in every day or week can be disheartening. 

Just remember not to cheat the diet. Also remember that a diet is never ending. I mean, you should eat slightly more once you reach your goal weight. If you keep eating at a deficit, you keep losing. If you go back to just eating whatever you want the weight will come back on, often it will be more weight. 

This is because when you lose weight you also lose muscle mass. Since our bodies metabolism is largely based on muscle mass and you will now have less muscle your metabolism will be slower. Unless you're working out along side the diet.  Well I must admit my first experience of it was on PS3. The controls take a bit of getting used to, but They never hampered my enjoyment in any way. seriously consider downloading it, it'll be one of the most memorable games you'll ever play. It's one of those games I wish I could show people who don't play games just to show the medium is capable of. Unmissable.  No idea why you got downvoted. All you should of needed was either, a transaction receipt, which would be found in and email, and your email. That's all they asked me for. I got lucky and managed to undo the email change, so I was able to log in, but couldn't change my username or password. I've been waiting for this. Oh god I am so excited. ahhhh GOG is a very, very small community compared to Steam so I HIGHLY doubt game devs will include the GOG logo because it's a platform that's well known. Please note that the pills are suppository. Uh-huh, still stupid they don't allow someone to post content on youtube regardless of that lol. &gt;It was infuriating on the Wii version to get blue shelled and fucked over at the last minute when trying to unlock stuff.

The problem with the Wii version is that you can't see what items everyone else is holding, so you get virtually no warning or chance to prepare if something like a Blue Shell or Bullet Bill are coming up behind you.  Plus, with 12 racers, it seems like there's always *someone* in the rear getting a high powered item.

OTOH,  MK7 makes it so much better.  There are entire meta-games revolving around the Blue Shell online because everyone can see when you're holding one.  (Presumably this is true for 8 as well, but I haven't played it yet.)  Occasionally people can even bully their way to the front just by holding it long enough.

Or, in front, 1P actually has some options if they're paying attention, since they can know when it's tossed and have a rough guess at how much time they have to do something about it.  So you can do things like jumping off a cliff on purpose to dodge the shell, or slam the brakes and hope #2 races by them to take the hit.

That, I think, helps make the Blue Shell more a *part* of the game and not just a random smiting. I buy Genesis 1's (mega drives) for about $5 without cords, cables, untested. G2, and G3's I typically do about $5-$10 depending, however untested/console only sales go into the "Spare parts graveyard" for repairing other consoles.  Easily one of my favorite video game characters ever. I don't know why, but I always think of him as Dr. House and Bender in the same body. I usually one-hand when I play Forza against someone with less skill than me. It works quite well.



But to be serious. A strategy game like Civ5 would be perfect! I turn off notifications for individual apps (on Android) if an app bugs me like that. It doesn't seem like a new trend. It sounds exactly like those Facebook emails I've gotten for years telling me to come back. That's about par for the course for Nintendo announcements. lol, majority of gamers probably cant throw a proper punch. It surprising how easy it is to mess up ligaments in your shoulder from crap form. There is also the Left4Bread bakery, the Destiny loot cave and the NCC-1701 designation for the Enterprise from Star Trek which can be found in the school. probf;ksnros;ngrd;gijtudisgh dugfd fuck you I'm still waiting for the next one that isn't A Bird Story :'(

*Cries listening to the piano song again* Doesn't matter. The Steam logo already shows in place for PC in some game trailers. "Shall I use my thrusters... Nah, I'll get there too quick and it won't look as cool." Is it odd that what I found most interesting about that picture is the chair? I'm not sure how I would feel about sitting in that thing.  

If it was me, I would have to check out the chairs while shopping for a new desk. Right. Unsubscribed. stop it, dad. you can turn that off with most games. if a game forces them on, i delete it People still buy games exclusively on Steam by choice, not because it's the only option. And it rarely is, even for Steamworks games (which can be bought anywhere, but require Steam to play). Thats not how the world works.   I just played through AC3 and it was so damn infuriating that it would go into a scripted sequence and he'd magically have a different outfit and weapons for the duration of the scene.   I like DS3, but it wasn't what I wanted. It wasn't scary at all, it just became a shooting gallery mess. As far as shooting galleries go it was fun, primarily because building weapons was fun, and gearing up with a co op partner was cool.

But what I wanted was something scary, suspenseful, and maybe a little more intriguing. The weapons were so overpowered though and the enemies just were relentless swarms the whole game, it eliminated any sense of tension. It was bullshit too that they advertised it as co-op for over a year but it was only in the two weeks prior to release they revealed there was no splitscreen. WTF EA. Fuck you EA. Came here for this. Minority opinion here: but I actually like the idea of remastered games that were during generational transition.

GTAV, The Last Of Us, and Borderlands: Pre-Sequel were all games released at the end of the console generation, when many were already transitioned to the next-Gen, or were games that were too restricted by last-Gen hardware (consoles only). [That's not what's blocked by the patent. That falls under a different category](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TU7VuXg0vFg) From my understanding the 30% cut is a Nintendo-only thing. Why they would object to free advertising is beyond me. Absolutely. The only thing that can be considered dated is the controls because 3rd person action games have come a long way since this game, but once you encounter and take down your first colossus, you are hooked. Yes.  Neither does the PC logo but we've been doing fine so far. Le'redpill plz. Must be something wrong with me, but I've never had a destructive rage-quit like this. Quest 64 I also really enjoy Destiny. Sometimes I get a bit burnt out- after IB I usually can't bring myself to play pvp for a week or so. I am excited to see where the game will go. I'll do both of those over blight town. Wow what a tool.   My wife recently got beast reduction surgery, which I drove her to waited for it to be done drove her home.   Next day we had to go see the surgeon so he could take out the drains.   He also showed me how to change the dressings.   The following week she had to go into to get her stitches taken out.   At that appointment he told us that I was one of the few husbands who have show up for all three appointments.   He told us some guys just drop their wives off at the hospital and make them figure out how to get home.   They never went to any of the follow up appointments either.   My wife and I were confused to how someone could treat their loved ones that way.   I told the surgeon and the nurse that I took the whole week off to take care of her.   Granted I spent most of my time playing video games or watching shows when she was awake,  I was there to make sure she didn't have to hurt herself after the surgery.   They seemed to be surprised by that. 

Tldr: wife got surgery.  Doctor told us that a lot of husbands are assholes.  References tend to be easter eggs I use both kind on a regular basis. I agree that there is a difference, but I am not about to spend 300$ to buy my own studio headset when my experience in a game would be bettered more by a new GPU of the same cost. There IS a difference, it IS large, but for the cost? I could make a much bigger improvement in game quality with something else. I do not think that I am delusional. what planet are you on? runescape is a browser game try continue's podcast, and checkout their youtube page. These guys are pretty hilarious IMHO. A penguin throwing an apple through a window? quake 3 team arena was a new direction, but i still preffered the old school quake 3 . . the level " the very end of you " is the classic equivalent of a no scope map heehee. What was the last dudes name ?

edit : XAERO, right . dude with the rail gun Is coffee considered a drug, technically?  If so, I need more. Bioshock 1 is one of my favourite games of all time, and I think it has some of the best writing in a game ever. With that said, the pacing of the story really suffers after the "would you kindly?" reveal. It could have been cut so much shorter, which would have been so beneficial. Even Ken Levine, creative director of BioShock one and Infinite has said this.  I just realized that's the artstyle that Yahtzee uses in his Zero Punctuation videos.  But Steam supports Mac and Linux, placing a Steam logo on there would indicate to me that I can play this on all 3 platforms... Get Lunch, Have Flan? While I was not a fan of the sticker-based fighting system, my main issue with Sticker Star was that since there were no experience points given out for winning battles, there was absolutely no incentive for you to fight anyone outside of bosses/quest-related fights. 

Sure, sometimes you had to fight just to move on from an area, but for the most part you could run past standard enemies. Due to the lack of experience points gained from battles, you were not pushished for doing so. This made all of the non-boss fights feel superfluous and cheapened the experience.

That said, I would love for Nintendo to continue the series, just keep it in the same vein as the original Paper Mario or TTYD. Loved those games. You don't sound eloquent, you sound like a pompous jackass with an over-inflated ego. [Ah, the face of a true ME expert.](http://www.adventuresinpoortaste.com/wp-content/uploads/userphoto/12.jpg) Same here. It was broken mess and for a second I thought the devs just jumped ship for a second to keep focusing on Terraria. Seriously. The n64 was so weak, you had to use just the y buttons and stick SEAL Team - it's on Abandonia. The controls are clunky, it's hard as hell, but there's no better pixelated 1990s DOS stealth vietnam game out there. 

You basically control the whole fireteam as a single unit, which is something I've never seen replicated except maybe in Full Spectrum Warrior (Which is a great game, but clunky and buggy as shit) through an open world Vietnam, with control of air assets via a suprisingly clean menu system. Call a PBR in up river and extract dynamically, or have Hueys fly in to shoot up the enemy and land to pull you out.

Not even ARMA is anywhere near SEAL Team. I recommend you all try it.

I also second Naval Ops: Warship Gunner, and Bladestorm: Hundred Years' War. gaaaaaaaaaayyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyy I don't get it, can someone please explain? You're right. But they also mention the piranha plants are coming out of flower pots, not pipes. The plumber reputation come from the pots looking like pipes. (at least in the French manual) Most people saw it, chuckled, didn't notice the typo and upvoted.

This isn't exactly an item that requires a whole bunch of in depth discussion steam is a subdivision of valve, aka its own company owned by another company. a store is still a company aka gamestop, fed-ex and so on. Right? That song is my main ringtone, and Otis' walkie talkie alert is my text tone. Love me some DR1. Femenists will love GTA 5 once it is Politically correct! Unfortunatly the PC release got delayed :( They must of found more politically incorrect things in it :( I think you've gone to plaid. I have no idea why adults do shit like this.  That new plastic smell Why would you want lights on your keyboard? That looks obnoxious. don't think there ever will be a mobile title I'll be excited about, no siree Soooo good I don't understand how you can make this comparison. Wow didn't release with three meaningless races, three mostly meaningless classes, four zones, one dungeon, and one city. 

In wow, you were never expected to fight through the same area twice unless you took quests out of order or decided to grind the dozens of dungeon choices to get the gear for a raid, which is not considered part of the core game play experience.  "Thou shalt learn to spell in a probalble way." [Icicle Disaster](https://soundcloud.com/icicle-disaster) just launched but seems pretty promising so far. They do JRPGs. *cryogenic

Thank you. Ermahgerd infamers looks like a lightbulb from the thumbnail

oh and /r/mildlyinteresting might suit this better Well this way on making money has been patched. But its found around a block north from michaels house Like /u/MetricZero said, there isn't an atmosphere in space to cause friction and tear your ship apart. So, you know, it would suck to try to travel cross the world at warp speed then explode in the atmosphere.


Then again, I'm no science man. Yes. Don't buy from there. When you see discounts for games that new you should know something is up.  HE doesn't have a fanbase he has fanbases with different opinions. They fight over what the games should be and Sega trys to please both of them as best they can. In my opinion they should stick with colors and generations style of gameplay. Maybe go back and do a sonic heroes style game at some point. But overall they can't decide how to appeal to everyone in their fanbases. My wife and I just beat it last summer. It has aged wonderfully.  Maybe it's fantasy. This post made me laugh, but knowing this subreddit, I knew what I'd find in the comments: all the inevitable cry babies who alternate somewhere between /r/shitpost and repost, yet can't simply unsubscribe.

10/10 would enjoy your tears again You guys know how our moms do shit to us while we sleep, aka moving us downstairs on the couch or even moving us from the couch to upstairs and we wake like wtf is happening how we got here? That kind of crap, this is exactly what happened, his mom snuck in somehow slide some pants in, and ran off again, theory solved :) I know the feels. Did his eyes shrink as well? My favorite was the unveiling of Columbia in bioshock: infinite The kepeer jsut moved teh letters aruond.

Look it did it again. Thanks again for the recommendations.  I appreciate you taking time to help a beginner.

Err..."well you can take those ellipsis and shove em right back up your sarcasm"... I don't know what provoked that comment. No sarcasm was intended and I don't understand about "ellipis".

Again, my thanks for your time. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=k7nsBoqJ6s8 I hope you own your home because you could at that point. Same here. Show the OS it will be on. That makes more sense to me. No really, but you can minimize the sound by choosing a linear switch over one with a tactile response (Cherry MX Browns kind of have the best of both worlds), which is "clicky."

Other than that, there are small rubber o-rings that can be used to prevent the keys from bottoming-out and cushions the sound a bit, especially if you are a touch-typer. Any game in the Dead Rising universe. I love them all, and I'm not really sure why. The story in the first one really wasn't that good, but I enjoyed it anyway. The references and easter eggs to mega man and street fighter, the goofiness (if you wanted it) the unrealistic-ness. Hell, I bought an Xbox One specifically for Dead Rising 3, then sold it after I beat the game. Plants vs. Zombies is split screen.  I like the first one. Yeah, quality is definitely important, but it feels like there are a million and one controllers out there. Thanks for the heads up. That definitely sucks. I won't be getting the new 3DS then, if not purely out of protest. I realize they just want to make the decision that will make the most profit, and I get that, but I don't see a reason to deny loyal consumers an extra option if it probably won't make much of a difference in the end. Id like to see a remake of Omikron. Was a really ambitious game that had clunky gameplay unfortunately  http://media.giphy.com/media/qox1yTvzRLFUk/giphy.gif Do you know how he reacted after you left?  Tali.

Best girl. I was always a huge fan of the [Blizzard Buffalo theme.](http://youtu.be/FYnuF85k668)  It does some really impressive things with the SNES sound chip. So *that's* where the last one is! i think i needs to be more simple than that, you don't need every version of the windows os, most people will assume its built for the newest one

you can probably get away with 3-4 slices This was my favorite colossus fight. The tone when you first enter the area it is all peaceful, and then after you shoot the arrow you hold your breath knowing it will be on you in a matter of seconds, like watching the storm clouds come in.

When you finally get on it, it was one of the main fights that I really felt like I was holding on for dear life. I swear I could feel the wind blowing through my hair as I was sitting there. All the fights in this game are amazing, but this one was fantastic every playthrough.

Here is a link to the fight by someone who plays it perfectly, which doesn't really capture the desperation you feel for the first time: [Link](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gGwNV0NwmQo) . Yeah this whole thing is bullshit. 343 wanted a new suit to show off how the engine could handle more detail and they fucked up by putting no reason why the armour changed at all. And then they thought fuck... I KNOW! NANOBOTS! Which isn't even Halo-esque. Humans are dead industrial and clunky, the covenant are organic, and the forerunner are the more nanotech and shifty. It's just a plot hole that they filled in with lazy writing that came later, and the fans that can't accept that, take the nanobots as lore.

[They basically wiped the Mjolnir from his past in this opening cutscene. Anyone who believes the top comment is dumb.](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=m40HiszQqaU)

I love Halo but I'm not blind btw gw2 sucks ass it's a repetetive pos game, no progrssion other than fuckin achievement points or grinding a never changing enviorement FOR COSMETICS NOT TO GET STRONGER OR BETTER THAN EVERYONE ELSE? WHAT A PUSSY ASS PHILOSOPHY ANET HAVE.

 "MYAH I CRY SO MUCH I DONT LIKE IT WHEN PEOPLE HAVE WORKED TO BE STRONGER AND BETTER THAN ME I WANT AN EVEN PLAY FIELD CRYCRYCRY GIVE ME FREE COSMETIC PET PLS QUAGGAN XD" 

btw crafting system is ridicilous and the drop rate of all the better materials  in the game is abyssmal.

 Ha jokes on you I don't have any family or friends that could potentially do this Heck yea man! I'm a big fan of the dragon-like colossi you fight in the desert Hey listen, i sell propane and propane accessories Amazing pictures, they look so real.  Ha! I did go through them thinking "I can relate to these screenshots because rainy homeland Britain". Really? Last time I played I had to download then play  Its straight from a zero punctuation video. Come on LightSpawn, get on top of knowing every single moment of every video available on the internet, please. Somebody tell Angry Joe! As someone who's never played DOTA, what does that stand for? This isn't the time for waifu wars. I had no idea Mercury and Saturn were a thing, but I haven't played in like 2 months and I was on Xbox One when I did. But grimsby...four legs. Spent many hours in APB. Really got into customizing my character, had a blast robbing store fronts, and the shooting in it was excellent for a 3PS. Over time, I must have spent close to a hundred dollars on guns and customizations. But the hacking became so rampant and unchecked that it completely destroyed the game's appeal. Not to mention he's drugged up and wobbling in the dream sequences, and it gets progressively worse, I loved the nightmares but they were trippy as fuck. Each system or small groups of systems are run by individual servers. When the game notices a large fight starting to happen it will try to dump other systems onto another server so that one server is running the one system where the battle is occurring. 

So lets say server 1 has systems A D X and L and a battle starts to happen in X. The battle grows and grows and the server eventually drops A D and L to server 4 so that it only has to focus on system X. The battle continues to grow so now server 1 starts to slow down system X so that it can keep up with all the input from players in system X. All other systems are running at normal speed but system X is running at 10% speed allowing 10x more input from players but at a much slower speed (10% game speed in this case).

Because it's just one system that is slowed down the rest of the game can progress normally for every other player as the systems they're in are located on different servers. 

In most games the entire thing is located on one server and each server is a different shard of the game. In Eve going to a different server keeps you within the single shard of the game world which is what enables them to do this. Having above 120 fps at one instance in the game is not the same as having it all the time. I want my **minimum** fps to be 120 fps. In some critical situations there is a lot of stuff happening in the game which require a faster CPU. Especially in games like sc2. If you believe your ivy bridge i3 is sufficient at stock clock then you are ignorant or just do not have the same standards for performance as my self. [It's just a plot hole, nothing more. Even the opening cutscene ignores Master Chiefs Mjolnir suit.](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=m40HiszQqaU)

Nanobots is a lazy filling for a fuck up on 343's part. Yeah I'm wondering that too. I'm looking for good one to enjoy war thunder with To be fair, the term Oceania isn't even taught in American schools. I learned that one on my own :P That's just your opinion. Whoa! Retards find the word retarded offensive. Please don't use that word so casually.  yea, possibly

I suck at subreddits If you didnt already know every normal Youtube Network that hands out licenses gives a cut to the developer. Repost from tumblr without even fixing the spelling mistake.

2500+ karma.

Well-played, OP. But..
This is just a picture that someone else made, twisted, phantom'd, and put on a space backround.

 
 Who on the internet would basically..
*REPOST*?! Hey, don't feel bad.

We'll bang, Okay? Haven't you seen the reviews for that? They're through the roof! xD Well ya see this time its Dark Souls. You cant just beat it. And passing it on is like passing on the curse itself. Great game  Hell yeah!  Actually the best part is that [the SNES version of this song was pretty great too](http://youtu.be/A4YeAdyYq4M?t=2m44s)

And my other favorite from the original, [Silence](http://youtu.be/A4YeAdyYq4M?t=9m10s) Preach. I quit this game for months because of this level. Was a struggle to get up the motivation to go back and finish it.  Thanks, I do what I can. That's because based on your comment history, you don't say anything nice or useful. Typically if you're nice to people they're nice back. 
 Caught in a land slide! Nintendo makes the games, but they don't male the Youtube content. Those videos belong to the people that make them. Nintendo doesn't have any legal rights over them. 

Even if it is a really stupid lets play, the content creator still has the rights to the content. 

If it is a Machinima then it is strongly OC.

Make your own game and record it, there is no room for debate. (joke -laugh_track01)

I do appreciate your thoughts on Nintendo. Around here everybody just assumed it was greed. Wtf? What is Halo 4? Hey OP, don't date Keepers.

####We'll bang, Okay? I see the Mountain Dew, but where are the Doritos? Audi, bmw, and Mercedes are not "super cars" unless you are only looking at the R8 and M5. There is also mini coopers and several hatchbacks that I can't list off the top of my head. The car list is very similar to that of Forza I like the lack of customization. Just race, with the same equipment as the other drivers, and see who's better.  She needs to kick him out, NOW.  Or poison him.  It's never too late too abort a failure.
 It wouldn't have been a problem if the blood trail didn't have a 2 inch wide mark to walk on otherwise you'd fall to your death. Just slap some walls around it and make it a maze like they did in Max Payne 2 with different themes for Max's story in different rooms. Done. This was done very effectively in part 2 when Max is having that nightmare and he sees a billboard that says "Everyone I touch dies." Holy shit man the feels. His author bio is great as well. I wonder how many times this image/concept will be posted before a majority of people know why it happened. Granted, the reason was bullshit, but it isn't hard to find, it's within the first few minutes of the game. There's something so satisfying about the SNES fuzz guitar voice. Probalby i put the sex in dyslexia. End punctuation not used, thought incomplete. Putting life in infinite loop.  Those probalby keepers man, dayum! Unity! 
Glad someone asked. 
After all the epic fail reviews I was still playing it on ps4 
IT RUNS FINE
better, if anything than the older AC games. I thought I'd be able to go back and the games would be better, smoother and less glitchy. 
Now they are good.
But honestly in Revelations and 3 I feel the control system is inaccurate and slow that the masses complaining about this title must have been PC users with too low end of a system? 
I've even spoken to an Xbox1 user who feels the same way.

Badass Game

LEAVE UNITY ALONE!! To me it felt like Max was wearing shoes made out of soap bars. Pretty poor design IMO to have platforming in the middle of an action game The Super Best Friend Cast is something I get excited for every Tuesday.  Word of advice: this week is their cast from MAGFest, so there's a lot of visual stuff that doesn't translate well to audio, but the others are good, especially the one with Maximilliondude (ep. 63: That deer just did an Aegis Reflector) You want to know something? If a hanar ever calls you a 'fucking moron'... you have done something horribly wrong. I want to see that in the fourth game. I also did that latter, that the change in armour is simply an artistic overhaul and canon basically acknowledges it as the same armour he always wore. So, why do you have 7 W's on the right side of GM but only 6 on the left? [I feel the pain...](http://puu.sh/faBER/987bb81e92.jpg) He's trans. So yes, both of the people pictured are, in fact, men. Well, this is like opening a can of worms. There are a lot of mixed opinions on Destiny and it varies largely by maturity. So I may get downvoted by a lot of other Destiny fans but IDGAF. I have logged somewhere around 600 hours and I also work at a large game studio in Central US and this is my view of it. 

Destiny looked to be this amazing game. Trailers showed off amazing scenarios and drove the hype train to a crazy speed. But in hindsight, they drove it a little too fast for too long.

Destiny as a whole does not appeal to many audiences. It is MMO like, but mechanically suffers from a lot of things that drive those players away. No in game trading, loot tables are terribly low, the loot fro doing extremely difficult end game content can be extremely lack luster and the whole game is driven by RNG (Random Number Generation). And that exhibits a HUGE grind that actually pays off very little and that whole grind comes down to chance at the end of the day. It has MMO qualities but is really unpolished in terms of MMO mechanics. 

It tries desperately to appeal to the Casual player but can end up driving them away along with the hardcore players. When I say this I mean how you advance to higher levels. Once again this is determined by RNG and it does not weight the performance of the players to better loot. (this whole game is about loot, btw. Think Borderlands.) So Joe Shmow can join a game at the last second and get one of the best guns in the game while the top performer can get absolutely nothing. Bungie, by using RNG tries to make it so that the casual player can play for an hour or so and most likely get something to advance themselves and a Hardcore player can play for eight hours a day and maybe after three days get a decent piece of loot. The randomness hurts a lot. There are also seven different types of currency and multiple tiers of upgrade materials that are horribly unbalanced. 

It drives away the traditional FPS fans as one can play through endgame content and get significant advantages to players who only want to do multiplayer. This can be in terms of weapons, armor and perks to each of those. There is no real way for the PvP only person to catch up to people who do both. 

It has a plethora of bugs and weapon imbalances.^1 There are bugs and glitches that have existed since day one and still have not been fixed. On top of that, It appears that their priority has not been on fixing bugs that may the game more difficult/unplayable but rather fixing "Cheese" Strategies (to cheese is to make a intended difficult fight into a trivial one by using various exploits. Not actually cheating, but purist will call it cheating.) caused by an oversight in coding or thinking. So it is a punishing experience for the players when Bungie will make the game harder and not fix the issues that make the game unintentionally harder. 

1. The weapon balances are actually pretty balanced; however, they give the illusion on imbalanced because almost all of the maps for you into tight corners where weapons like shotguns and machine guns are skewed to do better. The whole game is mostly designed like this which makes these types of weapons very good at their job, especially in PvP.

Everchanging Bungie opinions. In one instance they want to focus on teamwork and on the next they isolate one player to do the lead role. On one hand they want players to creatively complete difficult content, but on the other if it is not how they envisioned, they will patch it out.

Destiny is addicting, but not necessarily "fun". The gameplay is repetitive and rarely brings anything new to the table. The story is almost non existant in the game. To really get the story, you have to go to Bungie.net and read these special cards you earn in the story called "Grimore".

Bungie made a solid game. Graphically, it is amazing. Beautiful, dynamic and animations are pristine. Mechanically is is a bust. Gameplay is repetitive but Bungie's mantra is "30 Seconds of fun." and that nails the hammer on the head for gameplay. The game tries to appeal to everyone and by doing so it pushes a lot of people away.  If I recall, that battle they showed was back in time, and they had the "upgraded" armor. 343 is about as good at writing a story as your average high school kid. Holy crap.  I just got chills of nostalgia.

These tracks were Redbook audio and I used to listen to the CD independently of the game.  I haven't thought of this song in probably 15 years. Are you ready to be a woman? Rule 8 does apply. I like the new armour over the old one. Looks more futuristic and super-soldiery.

And yes that's a word apparently. The problem is that Bender is too lazy to ever get around to it. Being killed by HK-47 seems like a much more achievable goal. probalby* They had like 3 years, I'm sure that's thousands of times more time than they needed. It's not like it's a slow thing. people who play WOW get those razor mouse's so they can play with their balls/eat food while they raid.  give that mouse a try maybe... Don't know about other kids, but this kid (at the time) understood it perfectly, it was a rally awful experience.

Turns out parents are just as arrogant as the rest of us. No thats not bad.  I swear these companies charge as much as a game for just dlc. Its insane.  YOU win the prize! HO HO HO! $2.50 /u/changetip F You got a link to that video, by any chance?  I was about to do this. Not sure when I said actions of certain women don't reflect poorly on their gender as a whole.  I think mily Cyrus and Katy Perry both hurt women's reputation.  If I see a woman belittling men over feminism it reflects poorly on all women as well. You're obviously neither hardcore nor lazy enough to remain on the computer and refuse to get up to turn the lights on after the sun sets. I don't have issues with that, and I can live with the mic/headphone jack being terrible , but my Tilde key broke. 

It's cherry MX brown, supposed to last 50 million key presses, and the tilde key is busted after about 100. 

Don't buy cheap, kids. Was about to say the same! What a ridiculous concept. Imagine trying to apply the same logic to films or television - where people upload footage to youtube with them providing commentary over the top. Obviously, there's things like Mystery Space Theatre, but they pay for the right to do that.  Groovy Louie, Hoochie Forest At first I thought whoever was sitting there would have been shredded like the chair. No he became more powerful than ever, and goes around calling you meat bags all the time. must re-install swtor.  omg.  Zeal.  How could I forget about Zeal?

You're in this awful frigid world.  You're battling your way through, and then... paradise.  I didn't want to leave.  I wanted to stay in Zeal forever. Hellgate: London.

Seriously, I put many, many hours into that (until it got shut down). Shit this sounds fun, ill definitely try it. Thanks! Yeah, both me and my friends characters inexplicably died immediately *after* killing Belial. Got the achievements and everything. 100% to dead in an instant with no indication of what killed me. I was fucking pissed. I like Cryptum a lot, but having to read it to understand who the Didact is is kinda dumb. Realmofthemadgod Is there something I'm not getting? I never played ME so maybe that's why. Only a moron thinks that will shut down a feminist, so please, don't lump *ALL* men in with the ones dumb enough to threaten. If you do, you are exactly as prejudiced as they are and just lost most if not all of your credibility.  even if you don't play eve watch all the clarion call's So you're saying they're getting the same amount anyway? I've never heard of developers getting a share of ad revenue before. Plot twist: The chair was always that shitty. Runescape the client is optional  It's really dumb. Halo Reach showed that the Spartans had different armour but in that damn fine cutscene it shows them all wearing chiefs new "nanobot" suit lmao. Blur Studio do an amazing job but somewhere, someone fucked up with this shit and I'm betting my life it was 343's part. Wait, the switch broke, or the keycap?

[Cherry switches are cherry switches](http://cherryswitches.com/us/). Assuming they're genuine, they all come from the same place. ...except they were jumping from Reach in the beginning of CE? I don't know that it is explicitly said, but it is brought up at some point. You must be a riot at parties. Forgot about that! I think I missed the shot on that too haha That's the only way to play darksouls. OH SHI---

/cue elevator music... You're welcome! Uh Santa.. it's almost February.  [notpr0n](http://deathball.net/notpron/notpron.htm)

you have been challenged I'm pretty sure that's just to appease fan's who like the old armour. Meh. "Nanobots did it" is the official canon, and to me seems pretty obviously said with a wink. 
Anyone with an IQ higher than a Facebook user could piece together the next iteration of a video game looks different due to graphical advancements and new art direction. Ahh, might one of the many many British English vs American English things then

I'm sure we can all agree it's just called 'the land down under', anyway I really expected you to slip into retirement by now. IMO the armor in halo 3 was the best looking too. I loved this moment because, like most of the boss fights, it's left to you to figure out how to beat it. I, like most people who played this I'd think, was stood On that platform, the Colossi flying straight at me, with no idea what the fuck I was going to do. Then as it gets closer you notice the fur on its wing... I only said I could **run** SC2 and dota2 at **constant 60fps** with the i3 rig I have. I never said it was my gaming pc. You're too quick to insult. You don't seem to understand the difference between a game and television. That's an issue. I'll have time in an hour to explain it if someone doesn't bet me to it. But does it play Mario.  Do you have a link to that? This is the first I am hearing of it. I am mildly bothered by their change in heart, but at the same time I think it is a good thing.  (   ) 

lenny I think that was also the last action game I played where if you reloaded with rounds in the magazine, you lost those rounds permanently. Little detail that added so much tension to the gunfights as I judged whether it was worth it or not to sacrifice 5 rounds in my tommygun just in case I found a situation I couldn't control. What bothers me a lot is that Dying Light while badly optimized, it seems to have been he standard lately for a lot of multiplatform games. Many PC game perform like a turd in release date, granted maybe it's not really as bad as Dying Light as here, but a lot of them are still very bad.

Regarding the game itself, I have to say the parkour is very well done, it just works very well with the setting and the environment, makes you feel like you are playing it smart and avoiding zambambos. I would have never smashed a desk during Quelaag anyways, that boss isn't a risk.

Walking into Capra Demon or trying to pass the archers in New Londo with some soft humanity and a ton of souls... that would be pretty rage inducing if I lost my stain Are you a bot? *Pats back* "There there." ...what the fuck. That isn't even relatively close in size. How did they fuck that up so hard? Of course! HO HO HO!  I keep a singularity inductor under my beard so that way it's always Christmas! HO HO HO! 100 bits /u/changetip No Xbox love? That game was the best. I loved the swinging when it came out. "My goldfish swam around, go shoot it with a machine gun" Huh, I never thought of it like that.

It certainly makes sense, from where Nintendo is sitting. They were around when videogaming in America choked to death on its own bile in 1983, I could understand why they would want to keep videogames looking professional and acceptable for kids to play. http://i.imgur.com/M45w8Y2.gif I set up a speed bag in my gaming room for such a reason. If I get pissed off over a game for some reason or another, I direct my fury to an object designed to take hits. Plus, the sound it makes is also kind of cathartic. That's completely different. The thing with uploading footage of a movie is you could watch the entire movie which is what a paying consumer would do. However, you have to watch someone play the game versus you playing the game.

Would this mean that Ralph Lauren could block all youtube videos from a channel because they have a shirt? Could the creators of a popular toy block a youtube video of someone playing with the toy (the toy example is very similar to computer games) Ah I see My main tool was the [BF3 FreeCamera](http://www.theblue.co/freecam.php) by Hattiwatti and EngineerIsaac. It has several useful functions, like FOV, color correction, changing of fog and sun values etc.

I also used [VeniceFX](http://kiwidog.me/2013/02/venicefx-public-beta-v2-0-released/) for few shots, for example it allowed me to remove an annoying tree from the shot "Close Encounters".

In-game color correction etc was done with the Freecamera options combined with [ReShade](http://reshade.me/) beta w/ MasterEffect ReBorn 1.0.307. It allows some nice DoF for example.

All screenshots are from using in-game settings, no Photoshop after the capture.

More of my screenshots can be found here, [in my Flickr account.](https://www.flickr.com/photos/berduu/sets) Khajiit no for you! Surely there's something to be said regarding the fact these issues could be linked to an undiagnosed mental condition. Chicken and the egg really, where the issues caused by spending a lot of time in room alone and not having contact or has the mental condition prevented wanting to socialise....


I'm no expert, I spend hours alone daily at a PC, just putting it out there!  It may be years since I read it, but I'm pretty sure FoR did not mention nanobots. wtf is that

 THE QUICK BROWN FOX JUMPS OVER THE LAZY DOG

Ducky Zero, USB. Have 3 duckies and no regrets! That it is :P I love how that glitch came out nearly a decade after the game itself. Fascinates me how people can twist the game mechanics to their will like that. I wonder if it was by random chance or some guy with an emulator looking at the hex code and stuff?

Is pokemon poorly/oddly coded that it has so many awesome glitches or is it likely that most games just don't have the following to have their glitches be found? Let's hyper-analyze it anyway! Well, the armor change between CE and 2 was because he upgraded. :P Just to correct you, it's Mystery Science Theatre. LOL I always thought a 60's GTA would be awesome - like Grease but you know, Rockstar.  A blue, white and purple logo, representing the each of the operating systems. Retirement? Santa will never retire! HO HO HO! 100 bits /u/changetip Now I'm just more confused. I found the combat in dead island was fun at times, but frustrating at others (more often than not). When you hit enemies with a sledgehammer sometimes they wouldn't budge and then attack you through your own attack. It was if your weapon was made of foam.  Where as in dying light I actually feel like I'm doing damage with blunt weapons. TE UIC RWN  JUED VER TE LAY DG

... wow.

 Yeah, except for the T3 cruisers, you cannot lose skills.  The term DLC has become very taboo over the years due to corrupt greedy companies releasing half finished games at full price and selling the rest of the game as expansions. While not all DLCs are like this there are enough that it is ruining the overall picture. What I hate the most about the new generation of gamers is their obsession with overly fancy graphics and short "quick fix" gameplay (cough call of duty cough). Games have barely any focus anymore on developing fun engaging gameplay and story.

TL;DR not all dlcs are bad, graphics are taking the focus away from story development. How, pray tell, does a child become abusive?  Is that genetic, does it happen randomly or do you think the abusive behavior was learned? Cyka blyat Didn't Halsey just GIVE them armor on Reach? If I recall, they didn't even have MJOLNIR until then because the first tests with it the Marine who used it snapped his spine because he was moving too fast. At least that's what I recall. if you like platforming and you think your relationship is strong enough to support it, check out the New Super Mario Bros games or the new one on WiiU.  What do you mean? hey thanks for making my farm nice, say tell you what, why don't you have my obscenely rare and irreplacable missing link pokemon? [Kingdom of Loathing](http://www.kingdomofloathing.com/) How to tell if someone uses Macintosh computers:

They'll tell you.  Urgot to be kidding me  Does this work on the Gamecube version? &gt; how i should buy a 60 EURO game when the minimum wage where i live is 173.84 EUR

you should be able to buy 3. 
 Take a closer look at OP's picture. I'm pretty sure I unsubbed from /r/funny Russian insult, IIRC. TE UIC RWN  JUS VER TE LAY DG

Now I'm sad. This Dell USB keyboard feels so right though. [You're dad is a faerie](https://i.warosu.org/data/biz/img/0002/43/1396231147045.png) That's what (s)he's saying... I have the same desk!  Why I've always gone wood desks. The glory part is your opinion. Many enjoy the old 2d sonic while others like the 3d version. I liked colors and generations style of gameplay personally. Nobody will ever agree on what sonic should be and that is why he will never be what you want. Look at the meme. You.  I like you.  I will no longer tell my firstborn child that (Bitcoin) Santa isn't real. You get 60% for videos.
Or 70% if you have a Nintendo-only channel. The screaming when you fall into the black abyss is absolutely haunting. And monopoly  Their arcade sticks are also very good, but you definitely pay the price for the quality. What about using Up-Arrow, Right-Arrow, and Numpad-0 simultaneously? I use right-side keybindings and that's one combo that I just can't do, and it kills me. I have to use a workaround, hold arrows with 2 fingers, thumb down Numpad-0, release one arrow. What systems do you own?

Lego games are fun co-op. My girlfriend and i started playing Lego Marvel the other day since she loves spiderman so much.

LittleBIGPlanet 1,2,Racing, and 3 are also fun and easy to get into. Trust me, people care about spelling here. This isn't facebook. That dude deserves an ass whooping. now that right there is a fine, honest to goodness meme. thx op How about that one time when Red team jumped from their burning Pelican, which caused the deaths of 6 and injured a dozen others? So many down votes for agreeing with a guy. Sheesh. It literally says in the Wikipedia article that she's not wearing underwear. naga would be sweet but I cant afford a new mouse and have to stick to my mamba. can play with my feet though! I bet he became a beer fan after playing halo MP. "Damn. All the 12 year olds in the last match have slept with my mother. I need a drink." Read the article, they are giving MOST of the money to YouTubers.

Their previous rules they had afaik are still valid (if you used less than 5 minutes they didn't claim) I thought the Guilty Spark line was implying he was Rampant? I thought it was meant to be his memories bleeding together or some shit. Yeah that's cool, and that's available in literally every other racing game in the last 15 years as well.  That gets old though, and I want to progress as I win races, not just have a number go up and do more races. any way the wind blows...

end Not going to lie, I have definitely thrown a controller or two back in the day.  However, I always stand up and throw it into the corner of the couch so that it is cushioned.  I'm 18 hours in and about to go to the city. different for every person though. [How could I forget about Calcobrena?](http://youtu.be/Cr7NDhGxuYo?t=1m32s)

Actually there was an episode of This American Life recently where they used a cover version as a backing track.
 Nintendo has been a right piece of shit the passed couple years. So glad I'm not buying their products. 

A new DS that barely has any stat difference. Screwing over Youtubers. Even buying a gift card. You buy a Nintendo Card that costs $20. Games cost $20 + tax... Except Zelda was nowhere to be found in this video Both at once like a baller. RIP Neo. We fucking get it, PC is superior to consoles. What part of you people is just not able to comprehend "maybe I should let people enjoy what they enjoy" PC master race is like a tiny mental disability that only makes everyone else not like them wow THKBNFJDTHLAYDG

Fuck this laptop. I DON'T NEED IT. I DON'T NEED IT.  Of course no....... 

Nah you're right. They probably would  I've lost 20 pounds playing destiny on my couch! Logitech does this too. One time I had a low grade speaker system that broke within warranty. Logitech didnt have that model anymore, so they bumped me up several grades to a really nice set for free. They earned my loyalty after that. Or until you play for 90 minutes.  Take your pick. Whoops, it's about 13gb. You should really tell your story on two x chromosomes, it might help others. :) glad to hear you are doing well now. Stay strong! Go home Santa, you're drunk. But then has you slay the strongest beasts with a fucking bow. For "emotionless villains" you means lawiers, right? Who puts the high vis jackets on them? Who makes the jackets? Why does an ancient alien species commanded by an immortal AI race feel the need to wear a high vis jacket? They blow themselves up if you touch them don't they so I highly doubt it's for safety. Furthermore, if it is simply to show that they are 'workers' does that mean, pre mass relay discovery (for all races) that for millions of years high vis jackets have been the norm for work wear for all species?  Well that's new. While I very much disagree with you, I admire your consistency.  They actually did a really big purge against hackers about 2 years ago. As far as I know the hackers arent really a problem anymore.

I really only stopped playing because every patch made my fps worse.

I think im gonna download the game now and see how well it runs :) I only feel obligated when the game was great.  Like I'm honoring it somehow.

If the game was good but the end is starting to get dry I will complete it out of respect.  If it was great all the way to the end, I will 100% it out of respect (this rarely happens.) Zelda the franchise, not the princess. See levels like this suck when you played Banjo when you were 6 and comeback to it at 15 and finally get to this level and can't remember shit for the trivia questions. I died so much here. Is it wrong that I want to see a LOT more of these... gatekeeper* Ah, yes, because they aren't exactly the same, they aren't comparable.  he lost me at that Pro life narrative.. That's Ninesend heretic. o0o This was largely fixed in Rogue. Pretty much every uncharted location has a return boat. Is this just fantasy? How is making a video saying that a game is crap free advertising? (extreme example I know but covers your point)

Not all videos are classed as advertising. 

If we take your argument how far do we go with this. Why should the youtuber make money from the video, when its free advertising for their brand and their merch store? This is of course a stupid idea, they deserve to be paid for their work... and the money should trickle up the chain to the creators of the game as well.

And no the payment to buy the game doesn't really cover it as it give you the right to play it, no rights to broadcast are involved (that would drive the cost of the game right up if they have to include that with all the purchases) Watching this video despite not knowing who any of these devs are or ever playing the game was extremely entertaining Those app updates are not up to Sony to do.  They don't make those apps.  A Netflix app, Hulu app or any other app along those lines are up to each respective company to update and release. Keep.
it.
together I would have bought him a new tv, set it on the porch and change the locks with a note to gtfo it play FFVII and FFIX, so who care. Nice may-may bro No, they had gone to another planet to get their armor, during the[ Battle of Chi Ceti](http://halo.wikia.com/wiki/Battle_of_Chi_Ceti) But Commander Shepard is a woman.

And ONLY a woman.

*ignores male promo art* Guys like swarms of girlfriends, right? You must be fun at parties. TE UIC RWN  JUS VER TE LAY DG

Jesus fuck. So in your world "small portion" means "the majority"? &gt;balby
Slap slap slap, clap clap clap 
 Divekick Not all PC Games are on Steam though. I listen to co-optional with TotalBiscuit, JessieCox, PressHeartToContinue, and a guest. Although, even they admit they get sidetracked off video games at times. Last one they did was just under three hours long. 

Also occasionally listen to GameWank, some scottish people talking about games. Not listened to so much of their stuff so far to know if I'll stick with them, but they seem okay. 

If you're interested in boardgames (which I know this isn't the subreddit for, but just in case) I'd suggest checking out Shut up &amp; Sit Down, who talk about board/card games, and are quite funny.  dangol'nnn... yep The tower isn't in russia. Also it's faster to travel the planet outside our atmosphere anyway.  I suppose that's true to a certain extent, but at that point, it surely depends on the game. 'Cause I've not bought a lot of games due to having watched them on Youtube or Twitch. I'm never going to buy Shadow of the Colossus because I watched NerdCubed's Completes series on it. I'm not going to buy Legend of Grimrock 2 because I've watched Felicia Day do the whole thing on Twitch.  

Though then bouncing back on my own point, I suppose Nintendo is one of the game makers that would be least damaged by this, since the more I watch other people play Smash Bros or Mario Kart, the more it makes me want to play them more... Huh.  Umm... that's an old trick?
I remember reading that back then in a magazine (don't remember which one).
It has also been submitted to GameFAQs in 2006.

http://www.gamefaqs.com/users/cheeseyhuman2/contributions/cheats I just used a pic from online and then tilted the picture to make it fit the phone. [Check out these sassy orcs](http://oglaf.com/newmodelarmy/) It needed another month of development. It was visually pleasing but people are pissed about the DLC price and how necessary it is to the experience. I felt like the zones didn't flow geographically, you could just spawn where you need to go and then get out, no need to explore and enjoy the map like a true rpg would. Specials broke the pvp, minor cosmetic things such as everyone having the same hoverbike, just different colors. I thought it was alright, just didn't live up to the hype. Is BF3 singeplayer any good?  I just upgraded my rig and have played some MP, I hear it's okay? &gt; N64 Y buttons 

Wat... LostMagic for the NDS. Some might say the spellcasting mechanic was just a gimmick for the DS's touch screen, but I liked it. The game does have frustrating gameplay flaws, like a nonsensical timer on every fight and huge performance hits on large maps, but I still love this game. I make a point to play it every once in a while. Yeah, no one will get it so contest for gold is done.  A hint... WWII Shooter. I'm just saying, but on every club nintendo survey I put "Youtube videos" as where I found out about the game I was doing the survey about.

So you can thank me for that. I love how the story line to HK-47 was- 

He was sent to kill you, but hey, he says his data is corrupted so lets keep him around.  QICK BRW X JMP VR LZ DG

I'd complain that this (cheap) mechanical keyboard doesn't have n-key, but I've literally never had any issues with it outside of testing it like this. Feeling a bit touchy today, aren't we, Nord? That sixth or seventh one? The bull or whatever you have to frighten with the fire, and then hold on while he throws you around endlessly or whatever? I hated that one. So annoying. Halo My point was that watching Lets Plays are not a substitute good for video games. I don't know any people, and if there are, there must be very few, who watched a Let's Play and said yeah, watching this good game is enough, I don't want to buy it now. Worst case is that they decided the game wasn't fun because of the Lets Play which could be achieved through reading a review anyways. Despite the fact that the PC market is more that twice the size of the console market and growing, yes it is smaller than consoles.

Source: http://www.forbes.com/sites/marcochiappetta/2014/07/14/the-console-war-is-over-the-pc-already-won/

 My point was that watching Lets Plays are not a substitute good for video games. I don't know any people, and if there are, there must be very few, who watched a Let's Play and said yeah, watching this good game is enough, I don't want to buy it now. Worst case is that they decided the game wasn't fun because of the Lets Play which could be achieved through reading a review anyways. "i do not have a quarrel with you.........i now have a quarrel with you" I lost it when he said those lines haha, can't wait for this game to come out. Looks super good. I had that same table and was constantly worried it was going to either break, or have the glass slide off Arent you supposed to put the amount of money AFTER \/u/changetip? You are not giving any money like this: THERE CAN BE ONLY ONE THE QUICK BROWN FO JUMPS OVER THE LAZY DOG

Man, 25/26.  I guess that's pretty good for a cheap Microsoft Wireless keyboard. "His poor mom was so beaten down by him. She bought him a new TV after he yelled at her for another week to get him a new one. "

The lack of context makes it worse. It's usually 10-14 yo kids that make these kind of threats. You have to realize that a majority of the people participating in online discussion are kids, it explains a lot. HE QUIC BROWN OX UMP OVER HE Z OG

almost the same as yours HO HO HO! But I am home! 100 bits /u/changetip &gt; with o-rings

Now we're talking.
 Mario Kart Double Dash

Diddy Kong Racing

Star Wars Episode 1 Racer

Burnout 2  &gt; Young Link never returns after that, so Link is gone from that timeline until his eventual reincarnation.

Actually no. He doesn't reincarnate in that timeline because he left the timeline. Wind Waker makes a big deal that the hero in that game is just some random kid who was in the right place at the right time (or wrong place at the wrong time depending how you think about it) and has no connection to the Hero of Time. He only happens to wear the same clothing because his village has a coming of age type tradition based on their legends of the Link from OoT. He said when he was 13 and "googled". 

So he is younger than you think, or I am way older than I think. I mean google became popular just a few years ago, right? :( http://download.gamespotcdn.net/d4/user_images/1979/0funnyohnoyoudidnt_2.gif Wotmud.org port: 2222 This terrifies me. HO HO HO! It's ok if you want free money, but all you have to do is ask! 100 bits /u/changetip Where do you see exactly how much is shared? I changed my post to remove the 'small' because I don't know the actual amount.

The point I meant to make (unsuccessfully) was that they shouldn't be 'sharing' profits at all. Except that mechanical keyboards are mostly shit. At least the old ones like the IBM M series and Apple Pro keyboards.

Great clatters noise, great hipster value, godawful to actually use.

Maybe there are new ones that are nicer to use.. No DLNA, no care. I never new how good these graphics could look! I've been convinced that the improvements have been only minor; i have been wrong, clearly. Upay
ftfy Extremely. The feeling I get from comparing my 'Elite' team to your tramp team is indescribable but rest assured it is a pleasant feeling ;) It is coming out on PS4... It is a timed exclusive for Xbox Yes. PC is the worst. Despite the fact that you just called a whole group of people a type of cell that kills people and should be removed and killed, yes. Obviously PC is the worst. /s &gt; you means lawiers

Your master of the English language is unparalleled. And this is why my parents shouldn't rip on me so hard for not being a model son. Every one of you fucking children needs to have your video games taken away by your disappointed parents. "When I rage" wow, grow up. I literally just gave you two examples of it happening to me. And it definitely happens with other people to - but if we're a tiny minority, then fair enough, we're a tiny minority.  Are you saying Booooo or Booo-urns? The HD version is still really good. I highly recommend giving it a shot. Well this is going to turn out poorly.  I've had mine on my desk for years (5+) behind two monitors. Because it's genuinely bad.  What kind of shitty god doesn't have power over mere fabric? Logic is sound to me. Do you think this is a party? If your girlfriend looks like [this](http://imgur.com/5HkwUBK), she's ~~probably~~ probalby a keeper. But can you go down the pipe? get a razor naga and u could probily play cs go just bind movment 2 side buttons
 I listen to Retronauts, its really great! Well if you like old school\retro games from the 80s and 90s. HE QUC BROWN OX UMP OVER HE Z OG  Gaming has became the /r/funny for videogames Makes me want to give them another disability. Thanks. Losing muscle mass has been a concern for me definitely. I've always been strong as hell compared to my peers growing up and that's been one of the few qualities (not much else) about me I cherish. If and when I do get to my goal weight I'll probably look more into working out to regain some muscle I'll have lost. But it's going to be just lazy weight loss for now, haha.

And I just might start the monthly check instead but it's already hard to wait a week for me, I'm dying to see if I lost or gained already. That sounds fair. It IS Nintendo's content people well profit from, and getting 60-70% is actually much better than I would have guessed. Come on guys, it's better than nothing. "You should she her sister.." But what if it was *[other Barry](http://media.tumblr.com/tumblr_lo6vdq3Szh1qh2pxo.gif)*? Can you imagine elcor dirty sex talk?

&gt;Sadistic pleasure: Take it. Take it, you whore.

&gt;Pleasurable moan: Ooooooh. I get just enough directional from the 5.1 that allows me to accurately pinpoint footsteps. Helped a ton in Evolve and CS:Go. The stereo works well, but the 5.1 is just a tad better. Yes there is a difference. You'd have to be deaf to not notice the difference between back right and front right. RIP *Baron Von Teapot's Ludicrous F*cking Adventure Yeah, you got it. lol i forgot about this post. I started thinking about it after I sent it, Yeah not likely a possibility... sigh :P
 Pretty sure there is already a symbol for the master race...
http://i.imgur.com/usihp8e.jpg
http://www.firetown.com/wp-content/uploads/2010/09/scan0003-708150.jpg
http://peter-diem.at/images/hakenkreuz/rkfl.jpg How is the internet at the North Pole, Santa? &gt; Sorry but now you're talking in circles.

Not a bit of it. You asked whether I was agreeing with you so I clarified that I was not.

&gt; You can't just invent fallacy logic to suit your own opinions

I thought we were talking about morality here. If you're going to pirate a game, go ahead and pirate it: nobody cares. But don't go telling us that you were forced into it by the immoral actions of the publishers. You knew the price of the product that you wanted, and didn't want to pay it. They make money on the ads that run while you play. Of course they are going to remind you to come back. &gt;He treats me like gold. 

He gives you to random redditors who make comments he likes? Like the other guys said, it's probably one of the might and magic games No it's not. It's their own content people make a profit from. They already bought the game that Nintendo profited from. People watch popular YouTube channels for the persons content, which so happen to be ABOUT a Nintendo game sometimes. That doesn't mean Nintendo ever deserved to take the profits. They got a free ad for their game that millions of people saw. :/ Not an original post and you misspell Khajiit. Come on dude. Are they actually removing, or is it that google has a agreement with Microsoft over the use of Youtube on their consoles?

Honestly kind of ridiculous that big companies can just do this because they please. Richard Burns Racing I think that actually happens in Twilight Princess. the karma train in the mere few seconds that this was up kind of proves my point. of course a question proves a lack of understanding, that's the whole point. I was considering asking what sort of rape we're talking about, because I was in an abuse relationship that involved "rape". But I knew that I didn't really care and that people would go crazy. All that happened in my case was that they accused me of raping them because I sexually touched them when we were in a longstanding sexual relationship, and their bodylanguage told me "no" so I stopped. Thus I was a rapist, and I accused them of raping me in the same way, and we both got upset over something rather silly. I'm sure you could find many more cases like mine across reddit. It could be explored if people weren't so incredibly sensitive over this topic. older than sex... How is that not good enough? It's entirely fair. Nintendo keeps putting out new Hyrule Warriors content and I'm just sitting here waiting for them to fix the FPS loss issues present since day 1. :( Can't remember the level, but it was a nighttime track thousands of feet above a city. I think it was called nightmare or something. Anyways, my buddy and I always played there, and would intentionally fall off because you saw your character fall forever lol. &gt;A number of games won't work on XP, Linux has always been like that (although you can probably get anything to work if you are willing to manually sort it out)

The idea with Linux is that the community for each distro does the work to get it on that specific distro, once it works on Linux. The idea with stuff not working on Windows XP was that XP is deprecated and you should go upgrade your OS.

*Big* difference. &gt;The advertisement revenue share is 70 percent for channels and 60 percent for videos, and all payments will be made via PayPal in USD.

Last line of the article. they are a different type of covenant, chief even says they are acting more fenatical or watever He's an assassin droid of a model so dangerous it got banned.  If he wanted you dead, you would already be dead. 

Besides, if your tech skills are high enough you can reprogram him yourself, so presumably in the process you discover he's telling the truth. I don't know why you're being down voted, you're right. How about doing some work? I dunno who this guy is, all I know is that I hate him. Just the name alone. soooo true https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=P0dXtOVi2yo I laughed too hard at this. What is my life? Same here. People that get that pissed at games are losers. Seriously, it's a fucking game. the gaben signal Old-school point-and-clicks should be a breeze. (Lucasarts and Sierra adventure games)

Electronic Super Joy, Luftrausers, RetroGrade. All of which are good.  So the only parts that managed to get his normal skin tone is his fingers and head.....while the rest got moon tanned frozen in time...Nintendo explain plz [This is my Dark Souls album](http://imgur.com/a/fhvKY)

They definitely aren't the [best Dark Souls shots](http://deadendthrills.com/gallery/?gid=100) out there, but I think a few of them are quite nice :)

I used a cheat engine table with free camera and FOV scripts that I created myself. I used some other scripts created by the cheat engine community as well. DSFix was used for the higher resolution rendering, as well as the time freeze functionality.

[There's much more recent stuff over on my Flickr](https://www.flickr.com/photos/jim2point0/) if you want to check that out :) I remember getting 9,000 points thinking I was the shit. My brothers and I had obviously no idea how to play when it came out. They need to re-release the first one, but on next gen. It would look dope as fuck.  A much closer comparison IMO would be comparing a let's play to a recording of a roller coaster or amusement park ride. It is an experience that cannot simply be captured by video, and one that will vary significantly from rider to rider. 

However, games have a far greater range in the spectrum of experiences that can be had. This is due to things like dynamic content, random items/physics/player interactions. 

Then there's the issue of the value that the personality of the player/commentary adds to the video. This facet of let's plays is closer to something like Riff Trax or Master Pancake Theatre. 

Trying to shoehorn let's plays into a single preexisting copyright policy is flawed and possibly lazy. 

Besides, Nintendo should only need to look at massively successful phenomena like Minecraft to see an example of a family friendly game that exploded in popularity and awareness due to let's play content. They are not doing themselves any favors with these half-measures. Mario cart.  My wife has enjoyed Battleblock Theater and Trine 2. You do understand that 7.1 Surround Sound is the best thing ever for gaming correct? This is in many gaming headsets. If not 7.1, than at least 5.1 And every single one of them will be massively successful.  i will never forgive my brother for erasing/saving over my FF3 game after i accidentally performed the gau/jump/paint/invisible or whatever glitch that gets you a TON of items. i think i had 99 stacks of every weapon and item in the game. i could never figure out how to duplicate that error again. 

if only the internet were as savvy as it is today, i might not have been as mad

 Shwed this to my wife because I have the exact same desk.

She panicked and wants everything off of my desk aside from my laptop. lol. If you were a pimp, what would you say to great three of your "female employees"? Sometimes I do it while I'm eating a meal.  The reason I watch is to learn more about how to play certain games better. You can get directional audio with a stereo headphone. Do some research before spending money on crap headsets next time. Why the fuck is this on the front page right now The big networks already have license agreements with all publishers. Of course Nintendo get's a share. This program is for smaller/individual YT channels that currently operate in a grey zone and where Nintendo used to claim all the ad revenue sometimes. When I was younger I used to go to my buddy's house and watch him play games. (Either I didnt have the system at the time or it was a single player game) And we would work through the game together. I had fun doing that. With that being said, I dont get why everyone seems to be doing it now and making a name for themselves doing it. I can't bring myself to watch other people game. Maybe I will watch a clip her or there and see if they do something funny (Like the Red vs Blue stuff) but to just watch someone play CoD would bore me to tears. Same! I loved that game. The fighting was awesome, and the graphics (to me) were amazing. It even had the beat 'em up story mode. 17 year old me thought I was too easily impressed because of all the negative reviews. But alas, I found another! I get Google Fiber! HO HO HO! 100 bits /u/changetip Portal 2. Very fun and lighthearted in its own way but be prepared to think  This has astounded me as well.  I've only done something like this a few times, when I've been stuck at some part in a video game, and I'll watch a few seconds of a lets play, figure out I'm a moron for missing that ladder or whatever, then continue on.  Maybe it's our age bracket of not wanting to watch our older brothers/sisters play video games waiting for our turn.  Ultimately it's so incredibly sad to me.  What? Girlfriend? What's that? The game would have been way cooler if you start off with mark VI armor, and later when you meet up with the infinity, you get the mark VII armor I kinda liked the new EA UFC game though, admittedly, I am not an MMA fan, so I don't know the ins and outs of the sport. &gt;Your mastery of the English language is unparalleled.

FTFY Read the terms. A note in the video description is fine too. Probalby You should prepare yourself for rejection of an opinion when your defense is "I've heard every counterargument". If you have a unique opinion, explain it a little so others can see what merits it might have. I doubt the subwoofer has much to do with it. Sure, subs create vibrations. But a cheap little computer system in the box wouldn't have enough power to do anything major. It's probably an 8 inch sub At the very most. Most likely a 6 inch. Which is nothing in terms of audio equipment.  Have you tried watching a let's player without a game? They'd be boring as fuck, no way would they make any money. Also, you do realise the advertising on games is a two way system? Some people want to watch a let's player play a game, some people want to watch a game played by a let's player. The free advertisement stuff is BS. Ign has been mostly TV show nonsense or articles taken from reddit. Gaming journalism seems to be at a pretty low point at the moment Just repeating what I said to the guy above, you can get positional audio with a stereo headphone. Just do a little bit of research before throwing money on a headset with ''7.1 audio''  Good luck half life...3 There's internet on the North Pole?  Are you talking about the Chief's armor itself? Or armor overall?Because everyone knows Reach had the best armor. Your ex sounds like a huge dick. The Night Hunter would be OP if the humans didn't have a totally gamewinning advantage with their UV flashlight. Even a mediocre player can pretty much stall the Hunter for as long as they want. Night Hunter can't do shit for combat outside of pounce and spit, if it comes to trading hits the human will win every time so it's not even worth trying to stand and fight. Second best option is to rush them down with tackle spam, but that only really works if there's one of them. Any more than that and it's unwinnable for the zombie, you'll never get a pounce off, you'll never have the energy to run them down with tackles, and spits are dodgy at best in effectiveness. How to tell if someone uses Linux: They'll tell you.
How to tell if someone uses Vim: They'll tell you.
How to tell if someone uses Emacs: They'll tell you.
How to tell if someone is a fan of Firefly: They'll tell you.
How to tell if someone is particularly passionate about *anything* and the current subject of discussion is related to it: They'll tell you.

 It doesn't matter since we're in the matrix. Reviews are press and not affected by this at all. You're my hero.
 I dont watch the pew pew pie guy or anything like that but I do watch gameplay of games I want to play.

So, I have two older computers that I cannot run anything after 2005 well. I do not own a ps4 or xboxone. I like games but not worth the investment for me. If I had the extra income I would but it is not a necessity for me.

So I need to see some gameplay before I invest in buying the game to use on my roommate's gear: Diablo 3, South park, Last among us, bio-shock for some examples. Games that but for seeing the gameplay I would not have bought.
 I feel they watch for the personality/gameplay/interaction with the broadcaster. I would watch Rooster Teeth because that group is hilarious This is a potential relationship destroyer. Make sure you and your SO are on the same level of intelligence. Idk man. "Worth" can only be determined by you. I would definitely get the cloud 2. I might not view money the same as you so the "value" I get out of it might be different from what you get out of it.

Asking these types of questions in a sub like this will result in people telling you what they use. What they have is what you should have so it justifies them having it. If they hate something you should hate it too and just get what they have. He's got to be running low on those GBP I see. Thanks for the spoiler.  I can't believe they call "cold on the cob" a "popsicle' And over at /r/linuxmasterrace, we scoff at Windows users. Hey, at least Mac is Unix-like. It shares code with both GNU *and* the BSDs. Wut? Yeah and doesn't playstation firmware look slightly different when you update it?  Jesus Christ dude, chill, it happens to everyone, even if for a fleeting moment in time.  i still don't understand rage quit, its a game. My guess is most people who do this don't take working out AND eating healthy seriously enough to see major reaults. I rage uninstalled both games :) &gt; there is NO reason for you to ask her about the details of the multiple rapes she endured.

aside from the fact that she posted in a public internet forum about it...
  

do you logic?  do you common sense? He probalby thinks he was making a funny I'm having the same issue, I like gaming solo, but I want to try to include her because it is a staple in my life. We have a PS3, 360 and soon XBOXONE. We have some shitty little racing game, but I feel like a wii would be better for fun co op games? That's awesome. Good job! Or she is genetically modified to open a mass relay for Reapers so they can harvest your species. Nintendo are about the only company to ever have issues with this. The free advertisement stuff isn't BS. They bought the fucking game. Next you'll be trying to say that Twitch streamers should be giving money they earn to the company the game they are playing is made from. And next when I review a game I should pay the company the game is made from for reviewing it because without their game I couldn't review it. i'm thinking about getting this game, is it more combat focused or more parkour focused like mirors edge? if somewone could answer this i'd appreciate it What game is that? Mac is perfectly acceptable in /r/pcmasterrace, although some people will look down on you for it. Those people need to be reminded that the main OS they likely use isn't even Unix-like. ha! A dead elephant. If they are successful, they won't need to compare themselves at all. Don't down vote this. IIRC Nintendo invented/pioneered region-locking. Region-locking is widely regarded as a harmful practice that only benefited Nintendo and the control specific markets. It forced the mod chip scene/industry to come into existence just to play imported games that Nintendo never published in certain regions. The consoles of those regions were incompatible with cartridges/titles Nintendo did not want sold there. It is very "backwards" and shows a disrespect for the desires of the customer. *tumblr gluten Lunch, Has Flour ? KSP has been a solid investment for me.  I got it early in Alpha.. and if it didn't change at all I'd be happy.  It's fun, it's been fun.  Definitely worth buying in early. Don't get me wrong, I'm not a fan of glass desks either, partially as there are some safety concerns.  As a 29 year old, it's incredibly so sad to me that people our age are doing what our parents used to do, complaining about something they don't get and berating the younger generation for their choice of entertainment. reaches armor was good, but I really like how the armor in 3 is simple and clean, yet not a polygon. 

the armor in reach is not simple and clean but Its good anyway, just not my favorite. We really don't.

Let the consoles fight over who has the better little gimmicky logo that'll change every generation - because it HAS to change, or else they'll be advertising an XBox99 with just XBox and people'll get confused!

Fuck that, PC is as PC does.  ho ho ho I suggest a penguin smashing through a window while eating an apple. Clearly someone has read REAMDE by Neal Stephenson. Honestly I think it is better than the BF4 campaign. First level sucks you in. Only issue people had was there was little vehicle controlling and the destruction of buildings minimized. For a story though was sick. I grew up swapping controllers ha. But then, it was a team effort. Now, people by the thousands watche as some loud obnoxious commentators take you through 40 hours of CoD,  and I just can't make sense of it. Like one bar with the windows flag colors, one with the yellow, black and white of the tux mascot for linux and a sliver bar for mac? This is not a diagnosis, nor is it a catch-all. Just something to look into. My favorite one right now is [Core Elements.](http://coreelementspodcast.blogspot.com/) It's done by one of the original members of The Dead Workers Party, so it has a laid back, informal feel. But even with that, the host Wes, and usually there but not always Spencer, ask introspective questions that go into details I wouldn't think to ask. They usually have indie developers on, but recently they had the PR guy from Hi-Rez the developers of Smite on I'll watch a LP sometimes to see what the actual gameplay is like for a game I'm thinking about getting. Also, normally in Minecraft or something similar, I watch the videos to see what others have made or to get ideas on a different way to play. 

As for FPS games, I also don't get it, at least not when it isn't live and in person. That way you can interact with your buddy playing. you can bring up the cd key for DA:O on steam and register it on Origin  if you wanted to have all 3 on Origin The same reason why people flock to MLP, or join fraternities, or get associated with /r/redpill:

To be part of a community. 

The gaming thing is just a common topic.  ugh Dad, boooo... (upvote) True shit, but not as much as any Mario party 
 &gt; Walking 2mph for 60minutes will burn around 300 calories per hour if you weigh around 320lbs.

I did a quick search before posting, and got 200-250 pounds for that kind of burn. Whether it's 200, 250, or 300 calories per hour, it's still more than sitting still. Same here. I have it for PC, and after seeing all the negative reviews, I put off on getting it. Found it for $17, so I figured I might as well try it out. Got it, played it, and loved it. A lot of PC gamers hated that it was only 30 FPS and whatnot, but I've played consoles my whole life and am relative new to PC, so I'm still used to bad framerates XD Story tiiiiiiiime

When I was 7 or 8 years old I started going to the arcades alone (it was close-by). After running out of money I'd stay and watch this dude fuck people up playing SFII. It was fun as hell and I learned a lot about fighting games thanks to this dude.

LP'ers are a mix between a podcast and creeping behind a dude that plays better (or different) than you. It's a way to simulate company and a way to learn about the game.

Heck, even when a friend comes to visit he ends up watching me play something and is fun too.

**Tl;Dr:** Watching people play keeps you entertained and simulate a friend. A geologist friend of mine showed me Banished, a resource-management strategy-survival game. It takes serious math chops and just browsing the [subreddit](http://reddit.com/r/banished) there are folks who come up with equations to lock in efficiencies in all sorts of crazy ish. It's over my head entirely but really impressive in how intricate it is. If I was in this game, I would realize that day would be a good day for me to spend some quality time with the girlfriend. And Log on AFTER the carnage ended with a unscratched ship full of marketable merchandise.  They're giving the right to USE their copyrighted material, let's players USE a game to make money. There is a huge difference between you playing a game for the experience, and using a game to generate viewers to create ad revenue.

I wouldn't walk over to NASA, steal one of their rockets to make a video that got a million hits, and say "Yeah but you got free advertising for your program", that's absolutely rediculous. Finally, nintendo jp is finally starting to understand why youtube is good for them. I always see people drinking energy drinks while gaming... I prefer a beer or whiskey on the rocks..

That might explain why I don't end up doing well... It came from Japan and it was sonys first console there saved you 34min.   with the xbox one im not sure.  but i am able to use my 360 controller and original mic like normal. I just had to plug it into the controller then adjust the settings through steam.  I would imagine its similar with yours Sony and Microsoft and virtually ever other publisher in the industry clearly think letting content creators publish without demanding revenue sharing is fair.

That's more than enough reason for people to expect more from Nintendo. I rage quit sometimes too, but it never occurred to me to throw my keyboard at my $500 TV. You have so much blind faith in government, it's almost religious.

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=omnskeu-puE Has* The Gaypad is shit served on a plate watch the video. you get transported to World 1-1 Yeah that game was incredible, yet only got mediocre reviews. Another game that got hate was Jedi power battles, but my buddy and I played that shit for weeks. Would you say "Ho ho ho, ho ho and ho"? Dying Light. I'm also 29, fuck that.  We're allowed to not understand why the youth likes what it likes.  It's mindless to us, yet entertaining to them.  Why is that bad?  Kids these days I tell ya.   First rule of mario party: don't take SO star. If you've played COD single player campaigns, this is pretty much the same old stuff.  Still entertaining, but nothing surprising.  Very very scripted, put on a set path, and you shoot a lot of dudes.  All while put in very hectic scenarios, and little to no character development.  I bet nobody remembers the names of the key players in the campaign - I sure as hell don't.   Well that must feel a little awkward. Ive played this game now for almost 9 hours....only i think 8% with the game. So large. So much content.  This isn't right in any way possible. Let me provide you a perfect example as to why.

Let say you have a channel dedicated to showing off how to make different foods and you use a brand name cooking skilled by the company "BillyBob's Cooking Utensils". BillyBob's Cooking Utensils instills a ban on all videos earning ad-revenue using their utensils. After a long battle for the ability to use their utensils in the videos they then finally say, okay you can use it, but you must pay us 40% of all of your ad-revenue for all of your hard work. Or if you want you can use only our cooking utensils and we will only take 30% of all of your ad-revenue.

There is no way that in anyone's mind that sounds okay. You can try and argue with me saying that it is okay because Nintendo created it and they can do whatever they want with it, but that doesn't make it right in anyway. Nintendo is a game and console manufacturer, that is it. They didn't create any of these "Lets Play" videos and in that sense they do not own any rights on these videos. I think its a disgusting step over the fair-use boundaries, and Youtube allows them to do it. Here is my idea of what the P.C logo should look like, plain, easy to catch, and to the point.

[Imgur](http://i.imgur.com/WLdOXAd.jpg?1) Or Throwback Galaxy in SMG2 You're allowed to do whatever you want, but I remember how much I hated people like that when I was a kid, and it would horrify me if I ever turned into that. With a username like that, you should be ashamed! I have been feeling older lately ha. I have a similar table and this is my worst fear. ... not anymore. Well I think a lot of people do it because they don't have the money to buy the games in the first place, but still want to experience the game. There is also a lot of people who watch other people play because they are more skilled at it then they are. Kind of how some people don't like to play football, but like watch it. I personally do it because of the people who play the games. The people who play video games for an audience are not all pewdiepies who (I think anyway) just says a bunch of not so funny things and gets a lot of views. There are many different types of gaming youtubers and streamers. I think of them as a kind of entertainer, some you like some you don't. yeah! I stand corrected on that, but still, It's stupid for Youtube to force users to go through this, all it will accomplish is reduce the number of LetPlayer's who are selling units for them.

For example I bought Super Mario Bros Wii U only because watching the [Achievement Hunter team play](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=de5f3mvRyIY) it looked like a ton of fun. Physical avatars in online FPS. So fucking annoying when you want to get through the door but some dumb ass is standing in the doorway, not moving, and you get killed trying to get past him. The person you responded to actually kind of has it wrong. While Nintendo doesn't make the Youtube content (and doesn't technically own it), the content itself is derivative work of a copyrighted material. And as such, for it to be considered fair use it has adhere to four factors, all of which most of them violate. You can read more on that [here](http://youtube.com/yt/copyright/fair-use.html#yt-copyright-four-factors). Basically, since the content isn't transformative, not educational in nature, based on fictional work, contains large amounts of the game, and affect the owner's ability to profit from the work, it would not be considered fair use. Cyka means bitch in russian Merry Christmas! 100 bits /u/changetip The image "Thunder Run" looks like something a war photographer would have captured in Afghanistan. I think remakes are great for deserving games. There are some extremely iconic games that were developed a decade ago that plenty of people would like remastered. Inherently I don't think it is a bad thing.

I have the Kingdom Heart remasters, Final Fantasy X/X2, the MCC, and The Last of Us. I have to say they were all amazing. 

The Kingdom Heart remasters look phenomenal. Nothing next-gen, but the quality is much better. I have to say the most disappointing was the MCC. However that was disappointing because the game released completely broken, and has yet to be fixed. The MCC though in my opinion was an extremely cool idea. If the quality would have been better it would have been my favorite remaster by far.

I think Final Fantasy Type-0 looks really cool. I haven't had a chance to play that game at all so I am definitely thankful for the remaster. 

 Do you know how much money you have to "share" with Activision, EA or 2K for the ad revenue your "Let's Play" of COD, Battlefield or Bioshock earned? Nil.

Youtubers provide free marketing for the games they play, why do publishers want to take that away from them. I don't care about downvotes for speaking against /r/gaming's beloved Nintendo but it is not a good decision to make any money from the people who advertise and enjoy their games, apart from the initial money for buying console and games, off course.

Games are not movies, or not meant to be anyway. Each person's experience will differ and a vast majority, not all, will want to play it and experience it for themselves eventhough their favourite Let's play-er or youtuber covers that particular game. Adding you on steam just for shits and giggles
 2nd rule don't play on her period That's ridiculous. I know I'll get downvoted because I'm not on the side of popular opinion, but Nintendo is completely within their rights. Just because someone bought their game does not mean they can profit from its content. This is copyright law, and it's why Nintendo was able to take down the videos in the first place, otherwise we wouldn't be talking about this. Free advertisement? Sure, which is why Nintendo is allowing this now. But it's still THEIR intellectual property. Buying a video game doesn't mean you just purchased part of the IP. Thanks man it does work like this! I seems like you can put the amount anywhere in the comment and it will work. I feel so stupid now o_o You don't even know what you're going on about.

The streamer/let's player already bought the game, they never "stole" anything (your example about stealing a rocket is thus bullshit). Nintendo have been the only company to ever give a shit about people using their material to earn money because it's a fucking ridiculous thing to even be bothered about. Let's players USE a game to make money but the only reason they get the viewers they get at the end of the day is because of their own content. There are many let's player out there that use the same games and get no viewers whatsoever. Nintendo is trying to claim money that isn't actually theirs simply because it is one of their games, it is the let's players earnings. That bear is eating raspberries. Go run it over with an elephant. An alien species from the mass effect series known as Keepers Ah part 1 of the Sadness Trilogy.

This game is great at pawing at your selective memory. Having replayed it recently, there's twists and other things that I just completely forgot existed. I thought the game was the shit when it first came out and blew my mind, but replaying it... mrrf.  No one remembers the [shodancyberentity aka real big bad that comes out of fucking nowhere](/spoiler). 

I feel like Indigo Prophecy got a bit of slack (which makes sense for when it was released) for trying to be one of the first real cinematic moviegame. L2P NOOB FAG &gt; Why is that bad?

I remember how much I hated people like that when I was a kid, because they were so close minded. I vowed I'd never become like them.

I don't like 95% of streamers either, but I definitely can understand the appeal. While you're not actively playing the game yourself, it's no less entertaining than watching a TV show.  I have no idea what's going on Y, for Yellow Yup, latter. Damn fanboys... Seriously. It's 10 words. You couldn't be fucked to just look over them *once* before you posted this? Ok, what about people doing a lets play and going "man this game sucks so bad", "look at this, they're ripping us off by xxxx" etc? 

Also, how do you draw the line between a lets play and a review? Also what if its just a "lets play" video showing errors and flaws? H CK BN FX JMS V H LAZ DG

Apple Keyboard on a hackintosh... lol ikr, I had a guidebook, I still have it in my room along with ones for ocarina of time and golden sun :) You're fucking high if you think this is better than the original CTR *tips fedora* XP is no longer supported by Microsoft, we don't have logos that state that windows 98 isn't supported. At most you would need a V/7/8/10 at the bottom. Fortunately, you have to look at the game specs anyway so if you were expecting XP support you should be set straight anyway. Reasons vary.

Personally, I don't enjoy playing multiplayer games that much. I still have fun, but I had even more sitting back and watching my friends play. Watching some videos on youtube is very similar to that.

Other times, I might watch a video to better learn how to do something, especially if it's something that's hard to convey in text.

For me, and many others I imagine, it's not that I'm watching someone play a game when I would otherwise be playing myself, it's that I'm watching it when I would be doing something else, like watching garbage on television because I'm just too darn tired to properly focus on the game I want to play. You're halfway right about what just happened My birthday is the 12th!? Calling someone ignorant nor isn't an insult, it's a claim that you lack knowledge and I also mensioned that it might be because you do not have the same the same performance standards as me... as you clearly do not since you only get constant 60 fps and not constant 120 fps. Ibb and obb. That kind of behavior makes me want to disband CPS so these kinds of kids can get whats coming to them. Oh thank God I'm not alone. 26 here as well and confused as hell too. Honestly, if I watched somebody play a game, I'd want no talking and no webcam. Just a person playing the game as is. Even that is hard to do, because I'm not in control and would hate to watch them miss something and then backtrack forever. wow why are the graphics awful HO HO HO! 101 bits /u/changetip It wasn't rage-destroyed. It's a pic from /r/battlestations. Some guys table shattered while he was away. Oh, dude I agree completely, this is really shitty of Nintendo to do. Most are. I like it. But I also like that Probalby sounds like a scandanavian surname. 

Sven Probalby. 

 It's extraordinarily beautiful, but it's also a tech demo - they ALWAYS look great. I simply don't see games looking like this anytime soon on any platform. Maybe I'm being a pessimist, but I just don't see it. You can't own a PlayStation Network either... look closely at the small logo Yeah, when doing Hardcore make sure you put the game on an SSD because even a minute after you load into a map it can stutter when trying to load more stuff.

It may be different now as I abandoned D3 over 2 years ago. Wasn't Lena Headey a random voice actor in one of those? If PC is so much better than consoles, then why have they never made a PC2? Checkmate PC shitlords. Yeah they might need to update that "**PC-DVD**" part to "**PC-Blue-Rei**" http://saucenao.com/userdata/tmp/91seDydfe.jpg They are obviously within their right to, hence why they are even able to bring it down, the issue is that it's bullshit and wrong. I find it even more ridiculous that Nintendo think they're eligible for money from people that put a lot of thought into their content when they make the videos just because it so happens to be one of their games that the player has already bought anyway.  Right now I watch a lot of Smash because I don't have access to gaming right now and I also love the competitive scene. It's fun watching players that are x1000 better than you in the right setting. * Brothers - A Tale of Two Sons

* Never Alone

* Lara Croft and the Guardian of Light

* Lara Croft and the Temple of Osiris

* Trine

* Trine 2

All of these can be played on the same PC as your co-op partner. I'm don't exactly study Halo science or history, but wouldn't the cryonic sleep do something to the armour?  Was going to say DA2, but that was just lazy gam making there.

Was also waaaaay overhyped. Thanks! :) [I hate Seinfeld, but this gif is almost exactly how I rage quit, every time.](http://i.imgur.com/uyD0rgT.gif) Reno love! I fucking date that Hanar. That hanar is living life on the edge. Ah, so it is! HO HO HO! 12 bits /u/changetip Me neither but I have 100 bits now. Thanks drunk Santa! CS GO Thank you, SantaBot. &lt;3 It's Christmas, good little redditor! 100 bits /u/changetip Your basement is cold.. you put a hot bowl of ramen down and it shattered the glass right? You would never rage at a video game... right?! This is correct. I remember the fuss about this way back when. It's just a little redesigned, but canonically it's the same armor. [Here you go.](http://www.bundlestars.com/all-bundles/the-saints-row-bundle/) Not when you go wireless This is Shadow of the Colossus. There are sixteen giant monster throughout the land that you have to fight. There are no other enemies, so the only things you'll be fighting are the bosses. You have a sword that illuminates their weak points. You have to actually grab onto their bodies and move around in order to get to the weak point and stab it. The particular boss in the image is a bird. And it won't stop flying. Guess how you get on. I made a shortcut to the "on the house" page on my phone so i could see if it changed. Right now it's Sim Hospital, It's bundled with dosbox so it's not a recompiled version or anything but it's free. don't think I'm sad cause i let her watch a tv show while we were both up, i think i'm super awesome for giving her what she wants.  Just cause I'm a feen for some video games.....  Shrink Ray was my favorite. Which would be hilarious NANOMACHINES, SON!  The one true race!
 NANOMACHINES, SON!
 I'm really sorry to hear about your horse, I hear it's very tall and quite hard to get off. Forget circumstance or anything, maybe even a single mother taking care of her mother working 3 jobs without time to discipline a child that might basically be raising him/herself... fuck them all, time to go buy a pitch fork. Children are separate entities, parents get too much credit for what they achieve and too much blame for where they fail. He's talking about the New 3DS and no the New 3DS don't come with chargers here. Dude, I work in an industry that does advertising, graphics and marketting for various company's, I know what i'm on about.

Yes, nasa was a bad example, here's a better one; i've worked on cookie tins that use Beano characters to sell cookies. If I had ripped the images from a comic I owned and put them on there, I'd be sued to shit, because the idea and brand of beano doesn't belong to me. So I buy a liscense to use beano characters, thus sell my product.

It's the same shit with games as it is any other branding, let's players would be utter crap without a game to play, the advertising goes both ways but video and audio content that belongs to nintendo, belongs to nintendo, not them. At least they're giving them the chance to make money and not just straight up banning them. As a child I was a big fan of the Dukes of Hazard... so one day, my mother found a PS1 Dukes of Hazard game in a bargin bin and picked it up for me as a gift/joke.

So one lazy Sunday I decide to play it... and it's nothing but a racing game... which is fine I guess... so I play it like all damn day. I have no idea how far into it I am but I have to be close to beating it because I've been at it for hours.

A friend of mine comes by and we use to always give each other a hard time, and she's giving me shit because I'm not paying any attention to her (because I'm playing the game)... so finally she reaches over and just turns off the whole system.

This was before the days of auto save and I hadn't saved at all because it was a shitty Dukes of Hazard game.

It was funny, but kind of crushing. I mean... hours and hours of playing it... all day really... lost. 

Years later she would turn out to be just a horrible bitch and all around awful human being. Like, she told me she didn't care when my brother went into a coma -- that's how awful she was. Really breaks my heart. We always had such fun together... aww, now I'm sad. "Keeper" Where? In a jar? You don't understand what is like to have self control.  You're the true hero.  I think you're missing a key component of the karma train for this guy: he asked a question he refused to hear an answer to and continually made horrible statements. Honestly, in hindsight, I wonder if the question was even sincere.
As for your personal story, I'm not sure I'm understanding you! Their both kinda bloated, i hate game software is skinned like crazy instead of being really basic to keep the footprint low so more system resources can be directed at the games. The grammar in this thread is a fucking trainwreck. Except you got a few more mobile segments in your fingers. Battlefront 3 I really need this image as a wallpaper. Nice, clean, organized and comfortable. Thumbs G502 Master Race! How are Miley Cyrus and Katy Perry "ruining women's reputation"? First of all, I just can't play this games myself. Too lazy(yes, this counts!), less time, no money, etc...., so I watch people playing this game.

I watch many Youtubers playing games, it's entertainment. Sometimes I do other stuff and only listen to them.
It's like watching your brother playing coll games when you were young!

Maybe this helps you understanding this type of media better, if not, you can ask me anything.  Love the rail gun. I use to be a pro with it back in the day. You couldnt really camp with it.  Running around while snipping people was awesome.  Still a feeling that hasnt been captured.  I remember having trouble being xaero. Pissed me off a few times. It KILLS me to watch people play Fallout or Elder Scrolls for this reason. Just a heads-up. Download is over 8gb. loool A podcast I like is the otaku lag podcast if you like games it's good for 2/3 and you can skip the last 1/3 if you don't like anime Oh my goodness! I'm glad no one got hurt. Did IKEA replace the desk? hwhat!? An F in english, Bobby you speak english. This, the change of scale and design of the Forward Unto Dawn, and the design of the Warthogs, small arms weapons like the battle rifle that seemingly changed while still on board the Dawn...really irked me. Personally I'd like to think Master Chief is still in cryo sleep and Halo 4, 5,6 are merely dream induced combat simulations... Is this agreement legal? Or is it more of a "Hey we'll give you some money if you let some of our copyright violations fly" or "Hey give us some early content so we can make some more money .. and in turn pay you more for it". 

I never knew such a network to publisher deal existed? Would love more info on that. Probalby unparalleled. What, like you've never woken up in someone else's clothes? I would actually like to play that Protip: If you wait for the body to completely burn, you can pick up an EXPcalibur blueprint.  dae big wurdz maek u sound le smart "That godzilla like bear has been terrorizing the town, go show him a thing or two by using rocks." From their User Agreement:


&gt;7.	Code of Conduct.

&gt;You agree that your participation in and actions in connection with the Nintendo Creators Program, including use of the Content, will not violate any law, regulation, contract, intellectual property or other third-party right or constitute a criminal action or tort, and that you are solely responsible for your conduct in connection with the Nintendo Creators Program. You further agree not to:

&gt;a.	Use the Nintendo Creators Program in any manner that could interfere with, disrupt, negatively affect or inhibit other users from fully enjoying the Nintendo Creators Program, or that could damage, disable, overburden or impair the functioning of the Nintendo Creators Program in any manner;

&gt;**b.	Engage in any discriminatory, defamatory, libelous, hateful, harassing, abusive, obscene, threatening, physically dangerous, unlawful, or otherwise objectionable conduct in relation to the Content or the Nintendo Creators Program;**

This is very important. By saying they can terminate your agreement because of *anything* they find objectionable, that would mean they can pretty much do it whenever they want, for any reason. 

&gt;c.	Attempt to indicate in any manner that we have endorsed you or any products or services for any purpose;

&gt;d.	Attempt to reverse engineer any aspect of the Content, or do anything that might discover source code or bypass or circumvent measures employed to prevent or limit access to any area, content or code of the Content (except as otherwise expressly permitted by law);

&gt;e.	Post, upload to, transmit, distribute, store, create or otherwise publish or send through the Nintendo Creators Program any viruses, corrupted data or other harmful, disruptive or destructive files; or

&gt;f.	Post, upload to, transmit, distribute, store, create or otherwise publish or send through the Nintendo Creators Program: (i) any content that you do not have a legal right to make available, including any unauthorized software, copies of games, music or images; (ii) any content that infringes, dilutes, or otherwise harms the Content or the Nintendo brand and image; (iii) any content that infringes, dilutes, or harms any patent, trademark, trade secret, copyright or other intellectual property or proprietary rights of any party; and, (iv) any unsolicited or unauthorized advertising or promotional materials (e.g. "spam").

&gt;g.	Disclose or leak confidential, proprietary, or other non-public information obtained in connection with the Nintendo Creators Program.


&gt;10.	Termination.

&gt;**Nintendo may terminate this agreement, or any part of this agreement, at any time, (a) if you are in breach or default of any term of this agreement or program guidelines,** or (b) in the event of any change, modification, suspension, termination or unavailability of the services provided by Google Inc., PayPal, Inc., or their affiliates, Nintendo is not required to provide you with any prior notice of such termination in the event of your material breach or serious violation of any term of this agreement or program guidelines, or upon the occurrence of any event described in subsection (b) above. In case of minor breaches by you, Nintendo may provide you with prior notice of your non-compliance and give you an opportunity to remedy such non-compliance.

Nintendo may also terminate this agreement, or any part of this agreement, at any time, for legal, technical or commercial reasons. In this case, we will provide you with notice of such termination, in advance if possible under the circumstances. Nintendo may also suspend, discontinue, or terminate the Nintendo Creators Program without prior notice in the event the Nintendo Creators Program becomes difficult to provide for any reason, including, without limitation, server maintenance or other technical reasons, natural disasters (such as earthquakes, eruptions, floods, typhoons, and/or heavy snow), war, disorder, riot, commotion, labor disputes, administrative measures, fire, or power failure.

&gt;**In the event this agreement is terminated for any reason, you will no longer have the license to use the Content, and you will no longer be entitled to any advertising revenue generated in connection with your Videos. Upon such termination and upon Nintendos request, you must immediately take down any Video and text related thereto.** Our failure to insist upon or enforce your strict compliance with this agreement will not constitute a waiver of any of our rights.

 Yeah I'm about 30% into it now. Trudging along Source: http://andydaroo.deviantart.com/art/Half-Life-2-Freeman-vs-Combine-473538363?ga_submit_new=10%253A1422553537&amp;ga_type=edit&amp;ga_changes=1 Dead or Alive: Beach Volleyball.  I wonder if bethany  Wright likes dick pics See, and that's the implication I really take an objection to. Do you really think that Nintendo aren't aware of Minecraft and how it became a thing?  

They are are very much aware of what it is they are giving up. They probably had a shit load of strategy meetings to decide their approach with a lot of shareholders all screaming at each other all wanting different things. They would have had projections going years into the future based on all the possible different options they had, and all the possible different reactions by the public to those options.  Fixed. Forgot about that too. Blasted through that more than a few times with mates on the PS1. I heard dark souls is a fun game. Time is money too  The rage......it's real...... /r/PKA used to be Do they sell fedoras in Sweden?  
  
You have totally missed that I do not game on the i3. if that was an adult, fucking walk away from the computer if you find yourself getting that frustrated. ir you know, act like an adult.

if that was my son, he would never get another PC or console from me for the rest of his life. he could buy it himself. when i lost my temper at games when i was younger, i was at least in enough self control to throw the damn controller against the couch. this shit isn't fucking free. I don't think they can use this to censor a video. Actually it kinda protects you against that since your video has not official licenses. So they can't flag it anymore. Linux gets quite a bit of the same games as mac does, so we need a Tux up there. Nice start, you are doing a lot with a small amount of space.

I would consider lowering the television though. This will depend on your viewing angle (e.g., if you lean back in your chair) but typically you do not want to hang a TV like it is a painting - high on the wall. This is because you view TVs for a long period of time so having to "look up" to view it can cause neck and back pain. 

Of course, from this picture I cannot really tell where you will be watching the TV from (that close chair?!), so you have already considered this.

 all AAA games i'd say

it feels like 90% of the big titles can't deliver what was advertised or expected That...was...soooo....dumb....HAHHAHAHAHAHA Their formula seems plenty fair to me. Let's plays with ad revenue turned on walk a fine line for DMCA fair use, it is someone else's content being profited from. You don't see "let's listens" or too many "let's watches" for music and movies, because those rights holding organizations would pull them down so fast. That being said, I believe you should be able to post with ad revenue turned off with no problems. Its plenty fair for Nintendo to screen content they attach their name to, and its generous for them to have a system where youtubers can earn too. You don't see universal films offering something like this for youtuber commentary, instead its a dice roll whether its pulled for DCMA complaints. WOO HALF CHRISTMAS! How many miners do you have in the North Pole Santa?  What is the Elf to miner ratio? It depends on how you play it. You can parkour around all the zombies or go in swinging. Either way, you level up your agility and combat skills through use. I really like CAGcast.  The guys are relatable and don't seem to take things too seriously. If your girlfriend looks like THIS she's probably a chaser, but could be a keeper. 

http://img3.wikia.nocookie.net/__cb20131022183342/es.harrypotter/images/e/e6/Ginny-in-HBP-harry-potter-7633716-1919-2560.jpg Also Far Cry 4. Deranged elephant running amuck? Gotta use a flamethrower to put him down.  Huka'lakanaka Hakanakaheekalucka'hukahakafaka... University of Hawaii Read the documentation on both Dosbox and the game. It's complicated! Robosanta is that you? My favorite Platinum Trophy! Holy shit a ME1 meme. 

Awesome! The most rewarding sense of accomplishment came after defeating each Colossus. I haven't played this game in years, but it's definitely on my top 10 list! Red Dead Redemption I'd keep her alright. right in the jettison pod  I have a one, a 4 and a wii  u. Me and my SO loved all the telltale walking dead games. Even though they're not coop  they keep you both entertained. Also all the fables. Indeed, the view distance slider seems to go up way further than is at all necessary barring something like an 4320p monitor. 

I appreciate the future-proofing, but it's still weird with 40% being appreciable max. Like an FOV slider that goes up to 300 degrees. Intel inside Well it's only a good thing if the story is good.  I'm kind of meh about it so far - but I'm only 1% in.  :) I have this same desk..... Bitcoins, how do they work? O fuck I have the same desk. Not what I thought this thread was going to be about.

And now I'm having flashbacks to Li Mei jiggling in Mortal Kombat. They are probably generic license agreements. If course legal documents. But both sides have lawyers so they get much better rates then this program and less strict terms.Also they are usually under an non-disclose agreement so you probably will never see one. Yeah it's kinda very different.  That's like having a delicious meal prepared for you, only to watch some guy eat it on front of you and comment how good it is.  I see nothing wrong with being a grumpy old man and not understanding todays youth. I can't wait to shake my cane at kids to get off my lawn.   that is the best way to rage quit....nope I'm done. When I was younger I learned to not throw your remote. Had to learn that after 4 SNES remotes lol
 HE QUIK BROWN FO JUPS OER HE LA DOG

Damn my keyboard sucks. Firstly, by making me guffaw as though I were a horse, you have inadvertently forced eggs through my nasal cavity. Secondly, when I cleared my throat, I coughed up even more eggs. Thanks stranger, have an internet. Dark Souls for sure. After months and months of dying and solving puzzles with no guidance it was a beautiful moment when I killed Gywn.
 Seriously what is going on in this thread?  Is there a plugin on this thread specifically to auto change words to incorrect spelling? THEQKBRWXJVERTHELAZYG People always throw around the free marketing argument for Youtube Let's Plays, though it's an argument which holds minimal water when talking about larger companies such as Nintendo, Activision, EA etc. People KNOW when they're releasing games. They know what games they want from them, and what games they don't care for. Sure, Youtube does provide indie games (such as Minecraft or KSP) with a lot of advertising, should they become popular, though large publishers such as Nintendo are definitely not indie. They may lose a bit of money from less people seeing their games online, though that's just a drop in the lake for them. I haven't received one aside from this one letting me know the 10% is in effect  I've never seen the definition of mature or maturity ever reference or allude to humor in any way. My statement that maturity is not defined by what a person finds humorous is completely correct and coherent. 

You can be the most mature and responsible person ever and still find some of the stupidest nonsensical things funny.  That would actually make someone even more interesting than if they didn't find it funny. ohh.. all playstation consoles can play PS1 games so that's how they ensure full platform coverage! There is a new Podcast with three Twitch streamers ItmeJB Ezekiel_III and Cohhcarnage and a guest. It's called Dropped frames :) well...I thought a lot of it was pretty interesting. I didn't know a lot of the politics behind the launch Can you describe how this is done? Rocks? They made me kill him via papercuts. The one girls name is Meggie Placeholder  It is called Nightmare and it's my favorite track. That's the same exact thing I thought my first time except I didn't realize it was a potential hoax until I was already in the process of doing it.  fucker would rush towards the BFG on top of the map ! I started off with the rocket launcher but ended up loving the Rail gun, difficuly to use, extremenly difficult to master. 

As no other game can live upto the franticness, i turned to serious sam series. Back in the day ( 10 years back) the Serious sam TFE and TSE deathmatch servers were packed.

I want the glory days of fast paced arena shooters back. enough of this realism. give me a quake 5 arena It's Saints Row. Probably. I love this desk so much I bought 2 (well one after I had to abandon the other one). 

This picture is stressing me out.  This isn't fair. Read up more on it. Nintendo not only makes money off the content youtuber's produce, but you also need to submit the videos to them for approval. So if you're doing a review of their game, and you have something bad to say about the game or even if you don't give it a good score - they have the right to say no - you can't publish your videos. They're trying to use YouTube and the people who put hours and hours into their videos not only into positive only publicity, but also then making money off them.  I've never touched an XBOX. I wasn't sure if it was on all 3 consoles. I'd love a sequel to Dungeon Keeper 2. 

Shame the new Dungeon Keeper Mobile game is nothing but a shitty freemium game :/ It's copyright law, and it's there for a reason. I had fun hauling my stuff trough null sec in a T1 hauler and getting ganked in a buble.  

I've had fun exploring in a Heron with hundreds of millions on my cargo avoiding gate camps.  

I've had fun hunting clone soldiers in dual rep incursus with my nephew.
 
I've had fun listening to my bro's in Mumble say the silliest of things while I AFK rat.  

I've had fun making the perfect four year skill plant to be able to fly well every ship i want with almost perfect skills. 

I've Had fun station trading, a seeing my isk grow by the day

I've had fun getting awoxed in a battleship because i was too dumb to warp as soon as intel came of hostiles in the next system.

I've had fun getting piebombed by RnK 

and also I've had fun in blobing the shit out of enemies in cheap shit, getting wrecked by Pandemic Legion's supers, Blobing the shit out of Ursurper. in the winter war, burning catch to the ground and building the newbie empire from the ashes. (although my contributions where only as a F1 monkey to think I was part of something that great makes me happy)

And i'm pretty sure that there are weirdos who like other aspects of the game that i don't like, like mining / manufacturing / logisics I think Nintendo would take any 3rd party developer willing to make anything for the Wii U. the mobs/creeps are hilarious in this game !  This thread is awfully silent. Should I try to ignite it? yeah but you still got /r/gaming so expect more From what I know the cloud 2 are just an updated version of the previous one with an in-line(?) soundcard. 

If it's anything lile the previous version, it should be worth your money unlike the vast majority of gaming headsets. That's invalid. If a clip matches their library stock - it will auto claim - and you can use just ten seconds of game footage and they can claim it. You just may be lower on their priority list.  Also that chair. That chair was damaged before the incident.

Subwoofer on top of a glass desk, damaged chair; must be an accident caused by neglect. This makes sense. I don't think of not having a system to play. It's my only real passion, so I do everything I can to have something to play.

Plus I have been watching Smash. But for competitive purposes. I guess I have a view of that being different than someone yelling at friends playing Gmod. Which it isnt. the "train" doesn't and shouldn't work that way. okay for when he refused the answer, but not for merely asking the question. I'm sure it was sincere and just lacked relationship experience. I think he ded Finally, Nintendo kind of pays attention to the Metroid fans. 2 was o.k. but I love 1 because of the madness of the large number of racers. When 2 just became 4 person races, it detracted from the competition.  most mmos work, WOW and ArcheAge do 100% with kayboard Yeah, I remember that now. Maybe I was thinking that they got the Mark V or whatever on Reach, which had the new shields and junk, or something. Either way, it's been forever since I read the books and this makes me want to read them again. :D So I should be talking about licensing if anyone sits out in a round of Mario Kart? 

It's certainly a concern of the NFL, and MLB. No matter what you may tell yourself, that really is a terrible example.  For a good portion of my earlier years, I thought it was spelled "problably". Honest mistake Wait, 7?
What game can you have 7 people on?
What was the point?
WHY 7?  You're assuming that the viewer hasn't already played the game themselves. 

You're also negating the entertainment the viewer is getting out of the streamer's commentary with that metaphor. Just because you don't get enjoyment out of those things doesn't mean other people don't.

Some people will watch a streamer who they find entertaining play a game they would never play themselves, because they're entertained by the commentary.  Judging by some screenshots and a gif of the water droplets on the windshield, it doesn't fail to deliver graphic wise [This product](http://www.amazon.com/Logitech-G13-Programmable-Gameboard-Display/dp/B001NEK2GE/ref=sr_1_1?ie=UTF8&amp;qid=1422553938&amp;sr=8-1&amp;keywords=logitech+keypad) might also come in handy. Plus it has a thumb joystick expanding your options.

 Psychonauts  Thanks. I'll have to keep an eye out for that. I wish they would remake this for next gen. Just glad I wasn't in that chair. HO HO HO! Wikipedia is your friend! 100 bits /u/changetip Shepard. Well what a asshole. CLICK WHIRR BZZZ! HO HO HO! 100 bits /u/changetip theres a great documentary about this new trend, i beleive its called "South Park: #Rehash" 1 to 1000! HO HO HO! 100 bits /u/changetip ... was that Strong Bad at [6:44](http://youtu.be/UGTddc62fXc?t=6m44s)? DayZ man. Should've used a bottled fairy Shadow, makes me cry :(  Rage-Quit Level: Korean in a Starcraft II WC Final &gt; Truth. If the women modeling underwear for the Sears catalog only knew...

My mom was Sears model.  They knew.  Getting paid to have pictures taken while stand in underwear doesn't require you to also be a literal moron.   Hijacking the top comment here. This desk belongs to my friend's brother. He was playing a softcore character, and died to a random set of elites in D3. He then slammed his drink on the table, and it exploded. Thats why I still haven't beaten the game yet  No worries, I only remember it so well because I just reread them before the Master Chief Collection came out :D Majora's Mask is tha best ! awesome pictures! have you thought about doing the same thing for the 2nd one? there are a lot of cinematic areas in that one as well.   Fallout. Please. I want more Fallout T_T TIME TO DIE JACK! I agree the sound design was a step in a less good direction, but personally I loved the art style. I mean those cut scenes were incredible. As far as a story goes its very much in the manner of the books which I do recommend as good sci fi reading.

I didn't like some of the original trilogy, I felt Halo 1 was immense and broke so many barriers for me, then 2 was only kind of ok. The first 2/3 of 3 are actually amazing, but they fumbled it at the end, the level after you fight the 2 scarabs is just such a downgrade, and then the ending is just several meh missions. Unlike Halo 1 which built to a glorious finale. do you pronounce it incorrectly? If they remade Jet Moto, *and* had that track, I'd be in love.  Well, looks like someone picked the RED ending. I can understanding people having different viewpoints, but look up reviews about the game. 

I'm hardly the only one to think it's not very balanced. I would say majority of people's reviews say it feels unbalanced - though that might just have been the one's I read.  I love you /u/BitcoinSantaClaus can I have a present today. I love you /u/BitcoinSantaClaus can I have a present today. /u/squalor you're needed! I'm currently going full light-side on KotOR II, and I hate having to put him down all the time. He has a fundamentally different nature than me, but I can understand his values. I hate Kreia, who they try to portray as morally ambiguous and wise but comes off as stupidly callous and preachy. Yep. Honestly, I couldn't notice a difference between 100% and 40% (you can still see far as hell with 40%).. but then I didn't compare screenshots side by side either. No Mountain Dew, that's just our Taco Bell drinks  How cool is that! It's the little things that count.... It only let me click upvote once.  I'm so sorry. Yes it is, it's easily in my top 5. And if the controls do end up feeling weird, they allow for total remapping.  What if the Keeper is male? The meme should say "If your significant other..." Got goosebumps reading that, what an amazing game... Has anyone played Blur? It was a great title on last - gen that never got the credit I thought it deserved. H CK BN FX JMPS V H LAZ DG Someone felt it necessary to rehash a bad, out of context joke that Nerdcubed made in his Mass effect 3 let's play years ago. Do not worry, Brother. GabeN will guide the true brothers' cursors. You and Azostar both have good points.

What a company does with their copyrights is their business though. Ultimately if someone chooses to try and make money while broadcasting copyrighted content, they should know they are at the mercy of the copyright holders always. Right or wrong morally, it's the business they decided to get into.

 I nicknamed him "Douchey" because he stun-locks you so easily.  I find that a bit of caffeine helps with my reaction times. So I'll either drink some coffee or sip on a Rockstar while gaming.  Economically viable means just to maintain an economic position one way or another, economically fiscal means to retain economic position based off monetary values. One good thing about the mobile version, after dying a few times, it asks if you want to skip the level. I have no clue, I just named the games that came to mind. The pixeljunk games are on PS3 and PC, I have no idea about trine or sanctum. I don't use my PS3 much. No, the original was him slamming his cup down on his desk. This is my friend's brother's desk. You can see the original in my history. Upvoted purely for probalby. Gonna be honest here, you **really** don't know a person is like this. Took me two years to realize it and get the hell out of dodge.  Tell that to Team Meat

Nintendo vetoed TBoI on their systems Thanks!  Half Life 2 Nope, it's a plantronics gamecom.. Looking at the box, it might be the 388s. Oh gosh. Figures I picked the same time to post something in gaming as BER-FREAKIN-DU. 

Amazing work as always. I wish I had these tools when I went through BF3 single player. HattiWatti is amazing, and you really make him (and Battlefield) shine. Half Life 2. We actually used the TVs for Skype,  iTunes,  etc. The sound is also better coming from the TVs 2 things.

* make sure you are changing what you eat too. That's going to have a much noticeable impact.

* walking is good, running is bad, IF you have a lot of weight to lose. Fat people run, blow out their knees, then never run again. You were only 11 years-old... You loved EGM so much... Urban reign, psi ops, the warriors, bully just to name a few There are some great games that I wish had more DLC. Southpark is definitely one of them.  Okay, both. It's really not. It's entirely about profits.  Nintendo think if people watch a LP of their games they won't go out and buy the games. The heavy is a spy And what the hell does this mean? If it's popular and viewed, is it not only free advertising but they essentially paid Nintendo to do it.  Game review websites typically get their games early and for free to review the product once.  YouTube channels can update weekly and constantly convince newcomers to buy Nintendo products. I love Mario Kart just as much as the next guy, but I thought CTR was infinitely better than Mario Kart 64. I've heard that RDR2 is something on rockstars development list You dare doubt BitcoinSantaClaus? BLASPHEMY! [$400 console](http://ca.ign.com/wikis/xbox-one/Xbox_One_Hardware_Specs) vs. [$400 PC.](http://pcpartpicker.com/p/RZKDK8)  

If you don't know what that means, PC is much better for the same price. (Lights pipe)

Three vagnias And then you finish the story at 45 % to find out that the 200 boxes and 100 newspapers all over the world count as 55 %. Yeah, as long as it doesn't pull a "20% is the end of the story, but you still haven't beat the game" thing. One reason is the same reason people watch professional sports.

I love basketball. I played it when I was younger. I try my damnedest to watch all of my team's games. And when you think about it, I could totally just play it myself. But I'm also only 5'7" and can't do nearly half of the amazing things a professional can.

A lot of the really popular streams are people who are really good. I could play CoD or DOTA or SSB4 myself, and have a lot of fun with it, but I can also watch people who are basically professionals who are just as fun to watch.

Also you can watch with your friends and share opinions just like a sport, learn from what other people do, or like someone already said, just have it on as something to watch while you do others things too. 

Not mention the people who are actual personalities and use the game as a forum to essentially be comedians or actors and just provide another form of fun entertainment. Sorry, no idea unfortunately. I only played the original Xbox version. This seems to be more and more true for a lot of entertainment though. Movies and TV shows feel less and less creative as well (imo). 

I think what's worse is that gamers are still putting up with (read: buying a shit ton amount of) games that are broken from the start. No one is making innovative games anymore because they can barely get the basics in upon release. MMMNNN that 16ms response time on that cinema display This is a repost...a weirdly shopped repost...

http://www.reddit.com/r/gaming/comments/xv6ka/diablo_3/ Yeah if i was a fucking plant maybe. You should share this with r/darksouls2 I think we have way to many remaster games coming out on the new gen systems.  My biggest problem isn't the fact they are remastering games, but the fact that a lot of these games came out at the end of the last gen cycle.  So why even release these in my opinion.  I want companies to release older games, maybe even games from the 6th gen of gaming (like a g** d**** KOTOR remaster). Nice roast good sir! XD 'tip She is isn't she? Call of Duty oh god the typing errors.  Not so sure about that.

fiscal adjective \fis-kl\
: of or relating to money and especially to the money a government, business, or organization earns, spends, and owes.

viable adjective \v--bl\
: capable of being done or used

: capable of succeeding

: capable of living or of developing into a living thing No. Thats oddly specific. And yet Nintendo is the only company to do this. Maybe nobody told all the other publishers and developers about it. You should do it, email all of them and tell them how people on YouTube are stealing money from them and get back to us with the results. It will be very interesting. HO HO HO! It's ok! 100 bits /u/changetip The name is vague but it does represent windows. Why do you watch sports when you can just play yourself? I saw this a couple of weeks ago. Mr. Parker hit it perfectly. The argument for gaming in the living room and geriatric name calling is already happening in this thread ha. Good old "McNutty" as bubbles would say...Anyways I think you're right, Dom West would make an excellent Max Payne.
 Kane and Lynch 1. One of the best multiplayer modes I've ever played. Well just because other companies are needlessly generous doesn't mean Nintendo needs to be. I think this was the first game i was fully invested in for a second playthrough. had it on xbox and then got it later on PC. i think i might have actually enjoyed it more the second time.

this rarely happens anymore... Yea I thought you where suggesting games he could use,  looked it up and there's no local coop on any platform :/ Company went under I believe I just beat this game last weekend with 2 other friends in one long and single 12 hour sitting. Seeing the game all at once made it so much more worth it [I tried a little bit.](https://www.flickr.com/photos/jim2point0/sets/72157645472706691/) The thing about Dark Souls 2 is that there's a minimum time step coded in, so you can't completely pause the game in order to take screenshots. This really limits the options for taking screenshots... and I find I don't work as well with those kinds of restrictions.

I also had trouble finding an ENB preset that looked good throughout... and I found that the vanilla game just looked a bit bland. Nothing compared to the gorgeous demos they showed (and then scrapped entirely) prior to the release of the game.  lol It is nice seeing that, if it's legitimate.  I always feel that Story should make up 95% and the collectibles only 5% or so...or not at all.  Also hate seeing this, then I complete one story mission and it jumps like 20%... it's like a punch to the jibblies every time.   I think you may be underestimating how big Youtube channels are getting. Pewdiepie is honest to god becoming a household name. I never thought I'd see the day. Hearthstone requires only the mouse. Sort of related but I had just finished the 24 hour (real time) endurance race at the Nurburgring Nordschleife in Gran Turismo 4. You get the best car in the car, a black Polyphony studios formula car that is based on 04 spec F1 cars. I was going back between A and B spec to finish the race, but it took a while. 

When I was done, I basked in glory for a few seconds at the reveal of the prize car. Went to go test drive it but as I backed out of the garage and the game started autosaving my slim Ps2 fell on my lap somehow, with the reset button getting hit by my knee.

Instant save corruption. I had at least 75% complete on that file too.

Now I make backups. hes a dungeon boss i belive?  wow I agree. The air would just burn out too quickly anyways. Dale, Boomhauer and Bill are the three sages.  Except Sony are the ones who made the Vita Netflix app. A truly fixed languge. Depends on the game for me, I can watch Smash Bros. because Ive got it and can pick up new things from watching Russian word for "bitch"
According to http://www.urbandictionary.com/define.php?term=Cyka

Had to look up. Never played DOTA. Oh god my work with silly semicolon-less languages has betrayed me!  This guy knows how to party.  Waking up with someone else's pants on is always a good sign. But Grease is set in the 50s.

And there is a GTA set in the 60s.

GTA London 1969 Yeah, 'cause that makes sense.  *propelry* Nope. I didn't bother perusing it since we had it for a couple of years already and some of the articles said IKEA wasn't going to pay.

http://www.nbcdfw.com/investigations/No-Recall-on-IKEA-Glass-Desks-Following-Scant-Reports-of-Spontaneous-Shattering-189749201.html The pixeljunk games are local co-op.

Trine has local co-op but is a PC game, but it can be played very well with controllers, leading me to believe there might be console version.

Sanctum: only lan/online co-op.

Seeing as how he named several consoles, I'm assuming they've got a PC as well. Wolfenstein: Enemy Territory. Great use of classes, super fun objective-based gameplay. Is "he" referring to me? Yeah I forgot my semicolons.  just got a mint copy of the first ratchet and clank 90+ gold rating, wanna just open and play it so bad Then that's down to you. I watched an entire LP of the walking dead season 1 and fucking loved it so much I bought a copy right there on the spot and pre orderd season  2. I have since then bought almost every telltale games back catalog and all their new stuff. If you did not buy a game after watching a LP it's because you had no real interest in the game to begin with.  It was in the US. You filthy little scums judging people and context to make a story so you can live happily with yourselves. I only asked if she can describe what rape meant in her relation. For example "He came drunk 4AM me sleeping- against my will he had sex with me". Yes that's a rape. 

And let me tell you why I asked, you asked it: When I was in High school I flirted with a girl while we where off from school. Nothing serious just a kiss absolutely no touching involved apart from our lips obviously. She had a crush but I already had a girlfriend and she decided to hurt me. 2 weeks later police at my door. Apparently I tried to ~~rape~~ her. For her it was fun, for me it was hell, this fucked up the first half of my life.  

Rape accuses are not a joke but nowadays more and more woman are just playing with the word. Check this out, [Check this out](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JXXoFfJ4O6k) was on reddit about 2 weeks ago: In this woman's view, pointing a finger at her means sexual harassment. And apparently this is not an isolated case look at 109 women prosecuted for [false rape accusation in Britain in the last 5 years](http://www.theguardian.com/law/2014/dec/01/109-women-prosecuted-false-rape-allegations)

Let's fucking cut the crap and let's fucking talk about rape! Everybody needs to know what a **fucking rape means**.


 After rereading your post, I noticed you are focusing on one type of streamer- the one who yells annoying obnoxious crap while playing a game. Granted, almost all of the most popular streamers are like that, but let's be serious- most of the most popular forms of entertainment suck across the board. 

There are streamers out there that are worth watching- [ones that are very knowledgeable and provide informative entertainment](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LDK6Q2v8HPg), ones who are way more skilled than you are performing amazing feats (like speedrunners), and even the rare streamer who actually is funny. They're out there, they just aren't the most popular ones, and it kind of leads to a snowball effect where new streamers see what's popular (yelling obnoxious crap) and just try to emulate that. Oh man, the team responsible for deadspace, working on a starwars game. This is going to be amazing. Especially true these days given the amount of multi-platform support we're seeing. I don't even know what I'm looking at.  It's pretty, though.  I had one of these desks before, on of the legs or beams got bent and the glass never lined up right. It's a piece of shit, what do you expect from a $100 desk. &gt; They may lose a bit of money from less people seeing their games online, though that's just a drop in the lake for them.

Would you say it's probably roughly proportional with the ad money the Youtube content creators would get featuring Nintendo games if Nintendo didn't take any of it?  It still says you died, the screen is just red.  Left for dead And Windows users don't pay attention to /r/linuxmasterrace in any capacity. It's true that it would be ignorant to suggest Nintendo is not researching any decision they make. I think the issue I and others have is that Nintendo's decisions and policies regarding things like this and tournaments for their games is that the decisions themselves don't seem to be justified by even purely greedy goals. Decisions like this seem to actively oppose the interest of their consumers and what a lot of us view as remarkably successful ways to show their products to us. 

The communication from Nintendo about these decisions does not help the issue since it always seems to weigh the preservation of their "family friendly" brand so heavily one second, and then cave to monetary benefit the next. 

With minimal communication from Nintendo, fans and consumers are forced to make assumptions like the one you mentioned because we cannot sympathize with the decisions they make. 

I think this could partially be addressed by a well done, public analysis of the financial benefits from let's plays that could be projected for Nintendo (as I'm sure Nintendo has done internally), but Nintendo cannot do this themselves without "showing how the sausage is made". The other side of it could be addressed with better community presence and interaction from Nintendo.

In the end though, I feel like most of us that disagree with Nintendo on issues like this are strong in our convictions. That's what comes from being a fanatic. Nintendo should adapt to harnessing the power of that fanaticism, as other companies have arguably done better, if they want to be more successful. They should definitely improve policies that negatively effect how their most avid fans view them as well. [Goddamnit, Allan.](http://imgur.com/a/aRsJe) This is good to hear, I want to try rogue.  It's on par with more recent CoD campaigns. WaW and before campaigns trump BF3 campaigns completely. But that doesnt make it any less enjoyable.

Also can confirm, all i remember is Solomon doing some stuff and of course Dima who got no justice in BF4. Thanks Angry Joe!  Growing up in a stricter home, organized sports portrayed idolatry and therefore I was not allowed to sports. And generally I don't play or watch sports (at least not in the traditional sort.)

And watching professionally skilled players is different than amateur hour at the local skatepark. Well developed talent is inspirational and pushes us to better ourselves. Listening to commentator Joe tell me how sexy he thinks a virtual prostitute is lacks inspiration for anything seemingly positive. I'm 33, and I can't understand it either. Take my answer with a grain of salt because I don't really understand why people play online multiplayer either. When I started gaming, it was something you did to get away from stress and everyday a-holes we all deal with. No people are inviting those same a-holes into their living room to scream swears and racist comments right into their ears. Who thought this was a good idea, and why do so many people live and die by it? Eternal Darkness I hope her name isn't Jenny... I wasn't allowed to have a playstation - I never knew that existed! 

An updated of either (London 1969, or my pretend 50's version because I really just want to listen to the radio and drive the cool cars and get into turf wars with BFOS's) would be fun as hell. 
 Some great shots in there - keep it up! Gaming is the only industry where the critics are given money by developers and publishers to "review" their product. Thanks for that insightful explanation. 

I haven't played Borderlands yet either, I'll get around to it eventually (I just picked up Red Dead Redemption and Bioshock 1&amp;2 yesterday, I go through games pretty slow). Was talking about sanctum specifically,  and he said he'd prefer not to go through the hassle of hooking up his pc to the TV + hooking up controllers. Oh well If they're swarming...you probably have more serious issues... LOL, it actually takes real minutes for this thing to load. The Dead Space series was pretty rewarding Would you like to give us any information? Perhaps an anecdote? No, okay. :( Yup, you could apply a thrust force and have a constant acceleration without having to deal with that pesky V^2 term in the drag force. My K95 doesn't have that issue. Supposedly its an issue with the ASMedia USB3.0 chips. Try an Intel port if you have one. "You missed it" 

"My bad"

**Boom** &gt;Fixid

Fixid that for your.  got it on PS+ a couple months back for free. Its honestly a great game. Rarely any games truly capture what a colossus is. Odds are since the gun is only stretched vertically, the ammo would be some weird ass oval shape instead of round. I really hope they don't. We need to tell Nintendo this is not Ok to do.  I'm no gamer whatsoever but I think some people want to see someone else play a certain game before they buy it, just to make sure it's actually fun. Maybe they just get sucked in after that point. I bet you could also get a ton of useful tips from watching it. \(_)/ No love for Mr. Zircon? When getting someone in to gaming, start by selecting a genre. What does she like to do? Does she like action stuff? Story stuff? Artsy stuff? Puzzle stuff? &gt;This is an official logo

How do you figure? For something to be official there has to be an officiating body. PC isn't even a unified platform, it's a vague descriptor for (mostly) x86 architecture computers. How can there be an official logo for that when hardware is made by lots of different companies without a governing body?

Come to that, do people still put disc drives in new machines? Such a wonderful game. My husband introduced me to it while we were dating. However, I do not like this Colossus. Water levels make me very uneasy on any game. It's hard to pick a favorite but I really like the sixth Colossus.  As someone that has a few games on Impulse, yeah, but I can see the why of why it is not possible. :S

And two services is not that terrible. If they were 4 or 5, now thats another matter. &gt; And yet Nintendo is the only company to do this.

Sega would like a word with you. Hah, they have to try to take me from apple then. I have an ipod somewhere. This is the best thing ever. CAGcast, Retronauts and Player One Podcast are great for the mid 30's crowd. Lots of longtime gaming journalist from the "pre-youtube" era of gaming. Looks like someone didnt get up for school this morning so many good lines....

"Clarification: When I said 'death' before 'dishonor', I meant alphabetically."

"One should always play fairly when one has the winning cards."


"Critique: Fashion is a form of ugliness so intolerable that it must be altered every six months."


"Character analysis: He has all the virtues I dislike and none of the vices I admire."



 'Cyka' is Russian for 'bitch'.

The usual phrase is 'Cyka blyat', which is 'fucking bitch.'

I have no idea why this is a big thing in DOTA.  Lots of Russian players I suppose? Please say you bought them both We should create our own here, start using it on everything, and see if corporations start using it thinking they are "down" with us. 
P.S. the logo should resemble a penis. I love being forced to use specific services with everything else blocked for no reason. 90+ gold rating? :o

i have all the originals, but its mixed between Greatest Hits versions and normal Black labeled :( the collection was a nice pickup. 

I really want a steel-tin case for the movie game Copyright laws are kind of ridiculous at the moment. That's an amazing price! I put well over 100 hours into the game and DLC add-ons and loved every second of it.

It was kind of like an MMO with not-sucky combat. Give it a try! True. I should have specified. It's not just the obnoxious ones. It's anyone that's just playing games and people watching. (Twitch) I understand the lack of funds or hardware to play, But more of my friends (who own new Gen consoles) have started just watching others play on twitch. Which has lead to them not actually playing the game themselves. Here, get my upvote! There is a wide array of streamer personalities. There are rage screamers, cleavage girls, gaming professionals, and everything in between. 

Myself, I watch league of legends pros. Why? Because they play the game at a competitive level that I just cannot match, and it is entertaining to see a game played by the best of the best. Its the same reason people watch sports on TV really. God damn that game has horrible graphics. Is this PS2? Do you have a source on that?  If you look the app up on the store it shows it is by Netflix and I cannot find anything to state otherwise. I know it's not that big of a deal, but finishing Mass Effect 2 for the first time, and having everyone survive made me feel freaking awesome.  Laser etching artwork into wood could be neat too... thats not really a quick fix anymore, but would look cool. Ah, some of the key pieces (like the g3258) are helpful.  thanks very much.... so run straight to the place you get the sword and get hit by the boulder a few times? They should put GabeN there Possibly more. &gt; In Destiny, unless there is just an insanely large skill gap between two players, the person with the better gun is going to win.

This is so untrue it's not even funny.  I thought the exact opposite. Origin's one is super nasty. Steam's isn't great either but it's better than Origin's. One company did some marketing back in 2006. I think we're clever enough to accept a bit more accuracy these days. MR.ZIRCON DOENST NEED LOVE. HE JUST NEEDS TO KILL.

also these are commercials made for the old trilogy. Mr. Zircon came out i believe in Tools of Destruction. More anti-Nintendo circlejerk. That seems popular these days. I don't think you have played SA recently.  &gt; pew pew pie

Oh god, you're exactly like my grandmother trying to buy a game about "The Marios" or something.

Get it off me!  Get the oldness of my peer group off! JAJAJAJAJAJA They didn't listen, but they also didn't get any money for their videos either. If you own a PS4 or PS Now compatible device you can sign up for a 7 day free trial and play SotC for free, along with is predecessor ICO Don't we all? This is one of the top five games I've ever played On the other hand, I think he HK series are overrated. Yes, even the 51s are pretty great. But what makes 47 so absolutely terrifying is that he's been modified personally by freaking Revan. This is what puts him leaps and bounds more efficient than other droids IMO. Awesome song!
Comprei a laranjinha e a marmelada! PC means x86-based computer. Anyone insisting it means Windows is buying into marketing guff. I'm jewish :c YEESSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSS!!! Dude thank you, I know what I am playing tonight I'm a bit older than the OP, and I find myself watching Twitch feeds more often than I'm proud to say. I mostly like watching high-level Street Fighter play, but I'll check out other streams every now and then. I think the reason for watching "pro" gamers is obvious enough - I'm never going to play SF or LoL or anything else to that level, and it's very satisfying to watch it performed at a high level.

I don't really watch Let's Plays, except I'll occasionally tune into Cereth's Final Fantasy marathon because of how strangely compelling it is to watch a man marathon every FF game. Speedruns are very fun to watch for about 15 minutes until you realize you're watching them play the first level and a little bit further before messing up and resetting. Sometimes you tune into a fantastic run, whether it's a personal best or a new world record, and both are very exciting to be a part of, at least as a spectator. Never understood potato quality pictures from next gen consoles. They didn't throw the sharing features in for nothing. Destiny. That's interesting, I didn't think about the console prospective. Can you watch a stream and play a game at the same time on the new consoles? As a PC gamer, a lot of times I'll watch a stream on one monitor while playing a game on the other.  Add Portal 2 to the list Hardcore mode Diablo 2 character death. I could see this being the reaction. more fallacy you're inventing to suit your own discussion. And yeah, you were talking in circles and contradicting yourself, but w/e. And I never said anyone is forced to pirate the game, the whole point was to talk about unwarranted dlc ripped from the main content of the game, content that the customer already paid for. But you and others decided to go on a morality rant as if that has anything to do with anything. So good job for failing at responding to the post, and failing what's more at even providing anything resembling a coherent discussion ffs....wait, lemme guess your response..."but you knew the price! rabble rabble rabble!!!" lol gtfo dumbass I groaned. Take your upvote and leave. You are right it does not make sense but that's Nintendos though process otherwise they would just keep the ban up rather than saying pay us twice and you can make videos of our games. Cool! HO HO HO! 100 bits /u/changetip The Force Unleashed games. I love me some Star Wars, especially if I get to zap Stormtroopers.  Does your dad work for Nintendo? I'm sure Sony won't introduce their own shitty video service just by complete coincidence. Yup. If I see a person with any ICP stuff, clothes, CDs, anything... its like a warning that I don't want to know that person. Kind of like anyone with a Bush/Cheney bumper sticker... I used to avoid those cars on the road because I knew the drivers couldn't be very smart, certainly not smart enough to drive a vehicle correctly. [The best and most appropriate.](http://i.imgur.com/AJ7YHvx.png) Ah, 28mm "heroic" scale, eh? Chrono Cross I mean really though Are you kidding me? That's all I remember. It was a big WTF moment in the game. I should go.  Titanfall and Destiny are two that have been super over hyped recently. OK, she would probably like the artsy indie titles. Thought she would like Child of Light but the co-op for that isn't that great IMO. I've got two versions here with an exact duplicate of contents, but different mastering codes which would mean different distribution factories. 

Would like to know which one was distributed by LucasArts and which one wasn't for cataloging reasons. Can we ban OP for life for this stupid bullshit? Fuck you op. That's not supposed to be a Khajiit it's supposed to be dovahkitty. I've been trying to find GC adapters since they came out. Seeing people sell these on eBay for 50 bucks a pop and have dozens of them just depresses me. I just want to play 8-person smash. This whole post has me laughing like a dick in public  You don't know her, you can't know.

THAT BEING SAID, she had to save for a TV, so that's pretty sad and leads me to believe your claim that she might have been a pretty underwhelming role model And /r/gaming is removed from subscriptions forever.  You shouldn't buy headsets. Just buy headphones and a microphone. You won't regret it. Guess they wanted a slow and painful death on the bear's part. glass tables are cool and all, but I wouldn't want it for my gaming station. I'd be too paranoid that something like this would happen, even though I seldomly rage (and when I do, it's more like a minor frustration than rage). Makes sense. I've just never heard them referred to as "Y buttons". I guess I'm not in the know, ya know... Not funny and an idiot making stupid faces the entire time. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=KRKP3VbI41M You shouldn't have posted it in the first place. It's a fucking terrible post and you should feel bad about it. That's my playthrough plan for Fallout 3. I played NV with a completely full inventory, in my Skyrim playthrough I always have to trudge over-encumbered to whatever city after killing a dragon. Fallout 3 is going to be like two weapons and a bunch of meds. I read that as "No one can hear you stream."  I'm gonna go with that. Calibrations. When a game logic  post that has been debunked when it was posted 2 years gets upvoted, they should have some perspective  Madcatz Pads and Fightsticks are actually considered to be some of the best out there these days. The blood looks make it look like he soiled himself. Haha. I got in trouble as a kid when the tempered glass door on my parent's shower randomly shattered. They wouldn't believe that glass could randomly shatter like that. I got grounded for "breaking it and lying about it" until someone came to replace it and explained that he'd seen that particular door spontaneously explode before and suggested a different replacement. My folks had to eat crow after that. yep. these are for Ratchets 1-3. M'femshep. It's pretty ironic considering all the hate Activision and EA get in this sub while Nintendo's being the real dickwad here. Yes! This was one of the defining games of my childhood, along with Zelda OoT. So epic.  Xbox One has the potential with snap, and I haven't seen it on PS4.

I also didn't think from PC perspective. Dual monitors do have their perks. Most of my PC friends just play LoL anyway. I haven't seen them in weeks.  Glory to his pants! First time I played, Ocelot's telling me it'll be a Game OVer and go back to your last save, "Oh, looks like you haven't saved in a while"...fffff

So after the second round, I realize Meryl already made her choice. She knew the risks!! YOU WANT TO PLAY SOLDIER, THIS IS HOW THAT GAME ENDS! 

Yeah, the guilt still gets to me from time to time. But so does the whisky.  Was this shot with a camera made in 1994 as well? Perfect analogy. get mad DUal screen, do both. can confirm, used to do it all the time. That's remind me of a Freddiew video They could post from Ihateniggers.com for all I care. If the post is good, it's good.  http://www.amazon.com/Gamecube-Controller-Adapter-Wii-U-Nintendo/dp/B00SA5IJIM/ref=sr_1_9?ie=UTF8&amp;qid=1422555732&amp;sr=8-9&amp;keywords=wii+u+gamecube+adapter&amp;pebp=1422555748149&amp;peasin=B00SA5IJIM

Hope this helps! you can buy games online in a browser now right? Can confirm, if you say it really fast and slur a little it's accurate Popsicles, you are right.  Pulp Fiction wow Um...this would only be relevant for dota 2 Tournaments and cs go and such....not watching some random average dude playing the game for fun. You dont go outside to your neighbourhood soccer team and just sit there watching do you?  That's just when the story gets good.  You're not looking at the box metaphor deep enough. Good luck, have fun  Spartan: Total Warrior Someone submitted a link to this comment in the following subreddit:

* /r/SubredditDrama: [Popcorn flies in /r/gaming when user suggests Nintendo is hurting youtubers.](https://np.reddit.com/r/SubredditDrama/comments/2u3tah/popcorn_flies_in_rgaming_when_user_suggests/)

----
This comment was posted by a bot, see /r/Meta_Bot for more info. Please respect rediquette, and do not vote or comment on the linked submissions. Thank you. It's gonna have to be spelled properly if you want that label on the shelves lol AKA Sly Cooper 3 Eh. I happen to have a pretty big screen and the controllers are plug and play, so it's never been an issue for me. (those controllers are PS *and* PC-proof, with seperate USB and PS connections) The Last Of Us! That game became my best game ever, because of the story. It's also so hard! (In that way, you could call Super Hexagon also very rewarding) &gt;but that doesn't make it right in anyway

"Right" according to who? Pretty cool video. However there is a part in super mario galaxy 2 where you go back to Whomp's Fortress from mario 64, even the bomb-ombs remember you. This would suggest galaxy being after mario 64. Apart from that though pretty well thought out. Not the same table... you can see there are 2 tables joined together in this post.  Also different hardware (different monitors)  Same end solution though.   That comparison is absolutely bonkers. The difference is I can't decide I want a goddamned nasa rocket and make a trip to walmart to get one. Yes, they're using footage from games, but if it wasn't close to an ad you wouldn't have game companies offering youtubers money to do a vid on their games. These channels absolutely bring revenue that would not otherwise be there. I love nintendo and support them in most things, but it's sad to see them miss out on this. Thaaaaaaaaaat's what I was trying to remember! forest porn!!!! And only Nintendo follow through with any of it. I don't care about these "copyright laws" they're following, they're following it through greed and it's a bullshit law. It's great to hear that a non-traditional Zelda game is doing well.

However, this game is pretty fun for the first mission until you figure out how shallow the game is. A + A + A + B is the combo you use for the entirety of the game. Lame Great, more people are going to get paid to play videogames on YouTube instead of working a real job. Thanks Nintendo! Okey, lets try another analogy.  
A car race &amp; a speedrun of a game. Yea. That's why c:. Most of them are just silly or funny. Like: "Thanks to this game I beat my mother at Candy Crush". 

Personally I enjoy the voice acting tho, and the CG's are well drawn. Though some H-CG are just a lackluster... My favorite girl so far is Nikki, and her CG is the best I saw in the game for the moment. I remember something that happened a while ago with 2BFP where they took down their let's play of MGS4 because they showed the cutscenes or something. That guy must be a soccer fan. On most accounts the beginning of this game is pretty interesting, but this game shits the bed about half through. Like ebola-level shitting the bed.  Have a glass desk also but not worried about anything happening to it. I got into it purely because I am too much of a coward to play most horror games. So when I want to see the story for a game, I watch someone play it. Also it is amusing as could be to see their reactions to the scary crap. Then slowly I started watching more because I enjoyed watching the person. It isn't "Why don't I play it myself" it is more of watching someone you enjoy as they are being amusing. Minecraft and Warcraft and facebook games is a big market, I admit it. But not the industry by a long shot.

Clickbait BS, ok, me too...

Source: http://www.digitaltrends.com/gaming/future-gaming-still-belongs-consoles/ He still had unused estus flasks.. amateur.. Haha he's hilarious Yeah because we've never seen that before..... There was something about 2 that really made every track feel dangerous that freaked me out when I was young. I can't remember the name but the track on the roller coaster was one of my favorites I feel like this is a mall Santa scenario where a bottle of booze in a paper bag figures into the equation somewhere. That being said, it's still delightful. Well if she was on drugs then at least you know the sex was good.  How *dare you* When MP was new I was working on a Cowboy Bebop mod for it.  I spent 2 years working on it almost all by myself and when plans to make it a bigger group project fell through I didn't have the drive to do it myself anymore especially since MP2 was just about to come out and I still had at least another year of work left.  I got Spike modeled, his gun modeled and the start of the Cathedral shootout level.  

Check it out if anyone wants.  https://www.dropbox.com/s/b26ajndeet0lwue/bebop.mpm?dl=0 k Ahahaha you don't even know man, COD 2 had like 8 discs! And they were all install except disc one, it was the play disk. My favorite game oh goodness. I've been trying to get it to play it again, unfortunately it's like 93 dollars on amazon. It would be so nice for it to get a remake.. E-scam at it's best. Confirmed as a timed exclusive on Xbox, how long its timed for is unconfirmed but the current guess is a year *how dare you* If your girlfriend looks like [this](http://imgur.com/WwIo38U), she's probably a creeper. Wrath Unleashed?  HO HO HO! That's pretty funny! 100 bits /u/changetip I don't play anything online anymore because every time I do, it's just whiny little gobshites. Too damn frustrating. They bought a license to privately use the game and are publicly broadcasting it. Anansi was a trickster god, so I'm thinking this might actually be the most fitting name for a Razer product I've seen yet. I second this, RDR is going to get a sequel and is rumored to be quite far into development already. Psychonauts on the other hands, we have been begging for this. Wise men buy minerals when they see pings and things dying in this type of event, then cash in on an easy 20+% profit. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8Ud0j9q7pk0 No, I was making a joke.
 First time I've seen this, and I'm a big Mass Effect fan. This is pretty funny to me. I had this very same desk as well. I had two CRT monitors on it and saw the glass bending under the weight. So I put a plexi-glass under it just in case it did shatter.  For the people saying, "Hopefully its not 20% sorry and 80% collectables" there are two different percentages. For instance, I am 10% thru story progress but 12% game completion.
 I see another incoming rant..   I live in an apartment and need to keep mine on my desk because my downstairs neighbors have called the cops on me multiple times for noise. Not ideal, but I don't really have any other options besides lowering the subwoofer to inaudible levels.  My poor thumbs. Fuck you guys who had turbo controllers. 
 because they're still better What is it not called Windows Master Race given how much that sub loves it proprietary Microsoft OS.  No Khajiit for you! Harpoon bitches for days First time I played mass effect I didn't know what these were and assumed they were nerds because they always took up the Internet terminals. Why do people keep saying this? I know the licenses and other bullshit. That doesn't mean what they're doing isn't bullshit. Ah this game was greatness, additionally I would kill for a full remake of xenogears. Obviously boxed together with the FF7 and Legend Of Dragoon ones *Dreams on* Can't believe no one has said this, but I feel obliged to.  WHERE IS SHADOW OF THE COLOSSUS 2?!?!  been waiting for so long :( On a small scale yes, gravity is weaker than the weak force, but on large scales gravity is champ. no not most
a few are
 Ah that's a cool idea!  Eve Online.  Just when you think you're starting to understand it and make a foothold in corporations while raking in the cash, you realize you're still a noob after play 500+ hours.... but the intrigue is still super exciting.  This image explains it best.

http://i.imgur.com/jj16ThL.jpg

 I remember being a kid and seeing the % at like 10% after playing a day or so. I thought to myself "I'm going to be playing this campaign for months!" 3 days later and I'm like "wat now". THQKBNFJMSTHLYDG on my shitty HP laptop, good fucking job HP It leaves you without that ship, it will not respawn unless it was killed by an exploit and CCP replaces it for you. Some titan pilots have at least one hull in reserve if not more, else you will have to save up to buy another. Your alliance may also opt to reimburse it for you, but that is generally a case-by-case basis and will 99% likely not be replaced by your stupidityalso most alliance do not have the funding to replace titans in most cases. Haha it looks like it could be. Maybe he wants to keep it retro? We need an agreed-upon single logo more than anything.  Looking through a few trailers from the past year, you'll see the Steam logo in a few different ways, just the letters "PC", this PC DVD-ROM logo in normal or inverted colors, the standalone DVD-ROM logo sitting next to the letters "PC", the Windows logo with the old Vista/7 Orb... and a few others. My only weakness Yes, though the blame mostly lies on 343 for changing the armor in one of the worst ways imaginable. All Bungie needed was a throwaway line like "hey, this ship (the UNSC Forward Unto Dawn) was originally supposed to drop a bunch of stuff off at Reach before it was glassed" and there you go, instant armor upgrades for everyone. Buy it on psn? I don't think that it actually means all men are like that.  I'm certainly not.  But I do think it reflects poorly on me when other men behave in such a way. Amen brother I really like it, especially after going through it very very slowly recently. It has a right amount of epic action movie moments, and I like how the plot sort of ties itself together towards the end. The final ending was a bit meh though.

Most FPS campaigns nowadays seem to have a different setting for every mission and BF3 does is very aggressively; you go from riding a top of a subway train to witness a earthquake in Iraq - next you'll be flying in a F-18 jet, riding a tank, and so on. A lot of variety, but the mission quality doesn't stay very consistent - I would've cut out few of them personally.

It is what these things usually are - a scripted tunnel run - but a handful of standout moments really made it memorable for me. Certainly better than the BF4 campaign. You sound like a mac-purchaser Over kill. Just toss the controller....kinda softly...and say fuck this game! you should never break a glass computer desk kid. Ever. To be fair he is playing DS  and that game is the devil. Some games aren't as bad as others but that about sums it up. Gran Turismo 3. 

90 something percent complete. Only 2 endurance races left. 

Friend saved over it.  The platforming in some of the Lego games can be hard on some new gamers. They literally only say his spirit is sealed there. Minecraft on console would be an easy game to get down "basic" fps controls.  I started my girlfriend off on Halo 3 so many years ago It took her months of being brutally killed by grunts, jackles, and some asshole on her team with grenades to get "good".  Now she's pretty bad ass, though she almost exclusively plays Swat in the Halo series.  She still calls me a cheater when we play together though lol. You can't own a Xbox or PS4. Read the Teams &amp; Conditions. Its not a steam key, its a Uplay key... and if i went to ANY retail store? I would be able to use said key on Steam or Uplay as well... I fail to see how this is a problem? Maybe check your facts before you make assumptions? Wise men would also fly in the opposite destruction of a Titan slugfest, no? What a fucking cunt. I've been looking for one of these for weeks.  Yea same deal here, but that's not ops setup :v Literally completed this game last night. 

Well done OP, well done.  I was not able to buy them, I'm broke right now. Even if broken, they can be made into geeky things.  clever.. that mission drove me up the wall &gt; Anansi

Which region are you referring to?  90's

YouTube I might buy i IT'S ME!! I WAS THE TURKEY ALL ALONG!! OP... You're fired... Because unlike real life, GTA has the "keep upright" function. Its looking good until it goes sideways on two wheels at which point the "keep it upright" force comes into play. The Indoor Kids is a pretty great podcast that mainly focuses on video games and different aspects of it. Wow i have the exact smae desk at work, Let's say i will be gentle with it! http://i.imgur.com/bnWmD60.png Even my Paragon-Shep has a hate-on for Hanar, just because it lets me call them "big stupid jellyfish." I think what happened is he slammed on the glass deskslamming on desks isn't uncommonbut the desk shattered. I'd throw the broken TV through his face. http://www.amazon.com/Gamecube-Controller-Adapter-Wii-U-Nintendo/dp/B00SA5IJIM/ref=sr_1_9?ie=UTF8&amp;qid=1422555732&amp;sr=8-9&amp;keywords=wii+u+gamecube+adapter&amp;pebp=1422555748149&amp;peasin=B00SA5IJIM
Hope this helps! Bitch.  I have not missed anything, you said that you game using an i3 rig. Oh yea that sucked so much I forgot it even existed. Whoops.  It's cool, there's room for both of us!

Hatti is amazing, I was so hypnotized by his wonderful BF4 tool, that I forgot this tool ever existed. His BC2 tool seemed somewhat stable in the single player campaign, so I should finish that at some point too. No One Lives Forever 2 You could try Don't Starve most of the gameplay can be done with wasd and spacebar, there is some point click when it comes to attacking monsters though.

Most of the games that i've seen suggested have been either rpg or turn base, thought I'd give you an alternative k I sort of have to by default if I'm active, but I personally would rather join in and pad my KB before I die, anyone who shot at the dying titans in this fight on either side have a forever green killboard, unless they somehow lose a few dozen titans themselves. Does OP have some anger-management issues? Not even a contest, Destiny takes places 1,2 and 3. They basically said that game would be bigger than Jesus and we all know our man J.C. is the shizz. Glhf? Good luck having friends? Super mario world I'm talking side scrolling, cape wearing , Yoshi abandoning, Luigi following Super Mario World de_nuke needs change!
 "Sorry, there are currently no sellers for this product.
Read more at http://www.tesco.com/direct/wii-u-8gb-basic-pack-white/456-9391.prd#ASZTFMMVooLYIVjs.99" np And he was continuing it. Whoosh I was being sarcastic, I know the guys name, notice how I have southpark as a game I bought.

I do think it is generational thing, nothing wrong with that. ..what if the desk shattered due to the stiffness from the boxers? I have that same desk :o The app will only work until August 20th. I would love to see a reboot of State of Emergency, but with something like the Nemesis system from Shadows of Mordor.

That game had great ideas, but such had such terrible execution (SoE). Sounds like fucking Dudley from Harry Potter.  Shit This, in GTA V you can "lean" the vehicle in mid air. A dad mass effect joke? Awesome. I up voted this **as hard as I could** He'll manage. PC master race getting up voted on r/gaming.

I don't believe it. Are the zombies bullshit parkour zombies like that live action trailer? Valve needs to learn how to count to 3 When you think about it, all we needed was one big game company to start a movement.  Nkw everyone can rightfully bitch out all the other big names out there and say, "Well CDPR released 4x as much DLC as the next guy for free so you got nothing to defend your price." which is going to lead to strong boycotting on most other DLC. It won't be an overnight thing, and hopefully a few other Devs follow the movement to get it rolling.  Using an old Mac Pro too... something something PCMASTERRACE wow Legend of Dragoon :( Brutal Legend! I never said I game using an i3 rig. The first time you link your xbl account to an Xbox one it makes it your home Xbox. So if the person you bought your xb1 off of bought another and are buying digital games this is the reason why. I think even if you wipe the account off but don't factory reset the one, it's still tied to the system. Possibly MAC address or console id. Seems you've made a decision, but I'll paste my review anyhow for anyone to see.

I went into it thinking I was not going to be a fan. After reading tons of reviews saying there were terrible performance issues, and having watched videos of it that made me feel like it was going to be too similar to Dead Island (which I was NOT a fan of at all,) I was almost determined not to buy it, but my friends had and they said they were having a great time and the multiplayer worked perfectly, I went ahead and got it.

I couldn't pull myself away from the damn game for about 8 hours the first and second nights I played. I've been enjoying myself a lot more than I expected. The campaign is pretty well done, although there are cliches present (as there are in any story ever.)

I've noticed very few performance issues with my PC, whereas a lot of the posts I was reading (with people who had rigs very similar to mine) were saying it was unplayable, I'm running a relatively steady 60 FPS on max, occasional drops but not too often for me to give it bad marks.
The multiplayer is very well done. The "Be the Zombie" mode is loads of fun, and playing as the zombie is awesome, although it isn't balanced very well at first (the zombie has a skill tree, you have to get kills to progress, and against 4 humans that can potentially be very difficult until you've leveled up) it does get better as your skill tree progresses and you gain new abilities.
The parkour is relatively fluid, and it feels kind of like a mix between Assassin's Creed and Mirror's Edge.

Combat is fun, and SATISFYING but can be difficult (which is a good thing) if you get yourself in a bad situation. There really is nothing better than sprinting head on into a group of zombies, doing a dropkick and watching the first 3 rows of the horde fall over and trip over themselves.

I'd say in it's current state, 9/10 would buy again. Medal of Honor: Warfighter single player. It was very rewarding to play in the open-ended levels. Rolling Rock was OP. I like watching people play games that I don't really want to play myself. Like eve online for example. Personally its just way to much work and too big of a learning curve for me. Plus the monthly fee that I don't really feel like paying. However I still find the game really interesting and like to watch streams of it occasionally.  I had to do a double take thinking this was my husband. He had the same desk and I could see him doing that.  He's already broken a few mice and keyboards, so why not the desk?  Fucking bitch They literally say "Your spirit was sealed here for seven years." It doesn't really matter though, because even then there's nothing to contradict the idea that he's been changed to an adult state and there's only evidence that that's what happened. pretty sure one of the major ps1 emulators just got a big update. emulation is the best way to go to play old games these days, since low supply has inflated prices so dramatically. If you have a psp it's actually incredibly easy to play psx games on the system for free. Did this with digimon world 1 about a month ago and was quite satisfied. Santa don't care about religion right? He's a giver. :-D  White noise. I play games, read etc and its nice having something that doesnt repeat in the background. Its also the reason why i dont watch TheRadBrad since he always, always goes "OH NO YOU DIDNT".  Interesting people that also have soothing voices are amazing. That's not a bad idea. But I don't think BC2 hotsamples, does it? Probably harder to play with different aspect ratios. But you'd know better than I do.

My Dark Souls post is more of an experiment than anything else. I'm usually pretty unsuccessful on Reddit, and having an awesome Berdu post to comment on probably won't help :P Urgot would tap that Hey my girlfriend breaks my shit when she gets angry as well! There are more than one type of zombie, plus all the zombies act completely different at night. If you're considering getting this game, get it. It's well worth the money. He looks like Rock Biter from Never Ending Story crossed with Wolverine. you watch that speed run with the devs too?  I still think Modnation was better than Mario Kart. Just hated the stupid custom levels people made. PS1 is probably fried. That's $0.04 more than what you had before :-D 

 1983 in 'da house! Holla! &gt; So large. So much content.

I misread that and cringe, thought it was "doge talk" in 2015. Thank god.
 LA Noire.

Before everyone jumps down my throat, I know *why* it's not getting one, but that doesn't mean I can't want one! Game reviews and radio/podcasts aren't part of the Let's Play genre. He mentioned specifically Let's Play videos shouldn't be monetized, which honestly I agree with. How much sense does it make to earn money for *letting people watch you play a video game?* Regardless of how much time you spent editing, it's still silly. Ooohhh good choice!  Sim Ant 
&gt;The last pipe leads to coin room A,  
and exits near the end of the level


(http://strategywiki.org/wiki/Super_Mario_Bros./World_1) I don't get it Legend of Dragoon was developed and published by Sony Computer Entertainment. SCE handles both the software and hardware divisions of Sony (e.g., the PlayStation consoles). So they're still alive and kicking, but I don't know that they've been doing much in the way of software recently. Ive never understood how this works. There are some youtube channels that feature game footage/characters and other copyrighted stuff from several franchises. Do the owner of these channels, or the networks that sponsor them, pay for every single thing? I've never been a fan of the "fast" zombies. I'd rather deal with vast hordes of slow zombies. Thanks.  It sounds like a decent game, I just find it hard to justify $60 these days.  Sounds like it will still be a decent game when it's $30. Heroes in green tend to have this issue, it was named after the first person with the problem. It's known as Link's disease. I've heard a lot about EVE and im cautious because I'm not big on putting in multiple hundreds of hours on a single game. That being said, I put in a good amount of time on Skyrim, D3 and LoL so.... You a detective or something? It's like "fucking bitch" in Russian. I hope the controller support is good. I bought the PC version a year ago, but the mouse and keyboard controls were terrible.  That's bad, but she is a mom and should have raised him properly and/or kicked him out of the house.  This way he'll be a boy forever I remember a couple years ago I was playing the Mortal Kombat 9 story and Shao Kahn was **whooping my fucking ass**. I couldn't win. I was too stubborn to reduce the difficulty. He just kept cheesing me. I got so pissed off I slammed the controller into the floor and broke it. It sure felt good taking my anger out on that poor controller. 

Then I realized how stupid that was. Then I was angry I had to buy another controller. I swapped to my other controller, swallowed my pride, lowered the difficulty, fucking obliterated Shao Kahn, then went to buy another controller. To this day I've never let a game piss me off to that point I want to rage, because it's just not worth it.  "All you had to do was follow the damn blood trail, CJ, err, Max!" Where's your sense of adventure? Haha That chair has definitely seen better days. Long answer: Instead of teaching you how to fly a plane, they teach you to press X and mouse 2 for 10 minutes. 

Short answer: No I've heard so much about this game and I want to buy in on it but I'm always skeptical of puzzle type games. Inside gaming, podcast unlocked, game scoop,gamer tag radio, gaming illuminaughty, podcast beyond, my fav though the explosive Alan podcast. Well I tried hitting on then several occasions, but every time I tried to talk they just ignored me, you know until they signaled the end of civilization. So...basically women in general.  lame karma whoring/circle jerk thread. "Epic Playlist" in youtube works for me. There was never a ban.

You're explicitly required to have the rights or permission to all the content in your videos.

Until now, they've just been very selective in who they grant permission to. Ok, well whenever I find someone with a long-medium to short range exotic, the ONLY option I have is to run away.  I don't have a single weapon that can go toe-to-toe with them.  Theirs simply do way more damage than anything I have, and the only option is to try to pick them off from a long distance.

The worst offender is the single-shot automatic fusion rifle I see everywhere.  (No clue WTF it is.)  At medium range, it just wins.  Period.  It's about a 4 shot body shot kill, so the only option is to stay out of it's effective range, (which is way farther than other fusion rifles) or to try to get in close and 1 shot them with a shotgun. Homefront. 

Literally I loved the atmosphere the game had, it just fell short and was meh. It had such great potential My little step sister was playing my Pokemon game, I told her not to save over it... She did... I was waiting until the new one came out so I could trade over my Pokemon that I've had since Pokemon red over to the new one. I never saw my charzard and shiny pokes again... It's glorious Toothpaste can cause the scratches to be worse. use rubbing compound/polishing compound depending on how bad they are scratched. New attire for Zhou Tai in Dynasty Warriors  This bot detects if a subreddit links to the subreddit the post is in. The comment was /r/gamings not /r/gaming. This bot cannot fix or understand human stupidity.  COD maps Monster Hunter Frontier NA Edition. Infact I would take a good week or two off. Slut Just a reminder. The story goes full pants on head stupid in the second half by a major amount. Even David Cage has said that he had no fucking clue what he was doing when he made this game. Also, as someone who was never in a position to buy all of the games I wanted to buy, I would resort to watching other people play them, as it is the closest alternative. What I loved about ash lake is that it was hidden. When I was playing I found it by accident and preceded to have my jaw scraping the floor for the next hour or so. Especially when THAT THING jumps over your head!   This is just the story :) I finished the story just before, 100%, still got all the side stuff to do now Grunt. Yes, this bot will also not post the fix if the link in question links to the current subreddit.  I posted this back when I first started playing Far Cry 3 and the top comment stuck with me.

"You wouldn't want to get bit by them after all, Right?" Conkers Bad Fur Day  what about your thumb? Context? Earthbound. One of my favorite JRPGs. Weird, because I used to hit my glass desk all the time, and it's never shattered on me once. I don't know why it hasn't, but I've stopped raging in general because fuck breaking things and paying for them. Certain kinds of unlaminated tempered glass can fail pretty catastrophically and hurl pieces everywhere pretty much on their own. Because of the way this kind of glass is made, the surface is under a lot of compression (which helps seal nicks if they occur) and the inside is under a lot of tension. Normally this isn't a problem, but if there's a flaw in the glass and it's subjected to some kind of force they can fail pretty catastrophically.

It's not uncommon for toughened glass in car windows to fail catastrophically when subjected to temperature changes that compromise a weakness in the glass without anyone touching it, it wouldn't surprise me if that was the case here. Still would confuse people if it's for windows/mac/linux I think. HE QUIK BROWN FO JUPS OER HE LA DOG

Well I'll be. I can't upvote this enough Wrex. Super Mario Sunshine. I am CONVINCED that Nintendo is sitting on a sequel to it with the intention of using it as a trump card should things go real South for them. It would be a literal money printer. 


Also Pokmon snap for 3ds.  it is a plausible setup, not optimal for all games but it is for many. Science. For me it's a way to relax when I'm tired of playing video games at the time. Take a break, watch some videos or a stream.

It's also a way to learn and get better, by watching what the pro's do.

For RPG's it's just entertainment for me, watch a let's play someones doing on a game I love, see his experience not already knowing what happens and stuff. Kind of recaptures that first time that you never get back in a way. ouch hahah Hah - love the alert box.   My headset got the dead in one ear issue. I called them up. I proved my purchase and they sent me a box, prepaid for return. Box came 6pm next day and I called 1:27pm previous day. Two business days later I got a box and in it the updated version of my hesdset.

In the box a yellow paper with this written on it:

Hey! We are sorry for the problems we caused you. We are not going to lie and know your stuff can break. We love you for using our stuff the way we expect you too use them. We wanted to send you a new headset but we stopped making your ones. We sent you the newer ones. We also reset your warranty so if you face any issues with this headset call us. We wish you happy gaming and thanks for choosing us for your gaming needs. Horse armor... I'm so ashamed. horse armor oblivion Long does not equate to good, some games are long and dragged out... Marines. How the fuck does this have 3000 karma?  cost me almost $350, the gentlemen was asking around $500 but that wasnt going to happen haha he thought because it was 90+ he could get that much. not from me.  +1 to the inside gaming podcast, if you're interested in hearing about the gaming industry in general from an entertainers perspective they're really enjoyable.  I'm pretty sure it's an improper solder between the PCB and the switch. I haven't fixed it yet because it's the tilde key and I'm busy.  I want a silhouette of Steve Jobs and Lord Gabe kissing as the new logo Both times were myself.  One was saving over an older backup save, which wasn't too bad.  The other was saving over the later save, which was bad.

1. Final Fantasy VIII: at this point in my life, I had learned to make multiple backup saves, and was basically trying to earn all the cards for the card mini-game on Disc 4.  My other save was made at a point before Disc 4 so that I could visit towns for whatever reason likie sightseeing (because the game locks you out of towns at that point).  However, this save was in the first slot, and I accidentally saved over this one eventually.
2. Suikoden III: It was years after I had put the game down before the final dungeon (but never finished).  I had multiple saves, but none of them were backups; the saves were only made for landmark occasions in the game.  So here I am, years later, having read the manga and was stoked to finally finish the story.  I decided to load an older save to view the scene where you decide who would be the true successor to the Fire Champion but then decided not to after all and just continue with the final dungeon.  For some reason, I thought I went into a load screen, but I had gone to a save screen instead... and instead of loading the final dungeon, I saved over the final dungeon.  This was only bad because I had actually only really started to grind and collect characters after the earlier save. :( During the day maybe 5 out of a 100 zombies you see will be the fast zombies. At night though, extremely fast mutated zombies come out that will do everything to run you down and kill you.

You have to play it stealth at night. Thankfully though, you're equipped with a UV flashlight that stops them plus there are safe areas and traps all over the game world.

If you don't want to deal with the night zombies you can find a bed in a safe area to sleep in till the morning. But you get more XP from staying out at night outside the safe areas. They actually implemented it that way, vehicles have a tendency setting to stay upright even though sometimes it shouldn't

I like it, makes the game fun and not having to deal with cars flipping over all the time if you hit something like you might in real life.

This is a rare actual case of it's a feature not a bug. Ah, I already miss the sixth gen consoles. Funny how everything changes so quickly. That chair went through some serious shit ;_; 99% of the zombies are slow stupid and can't climb.  There are a few special zombies that can spit or explode etc, but they are very rare so far, having seen only ~12 or so total during the day, usually in special areas.

The fast ones are mostly not zombies, they are people who are infected who haven't died yet, so basically rabid humans.  Still semi-intelligent and as fast as a normal human.  

Not too sure about the ones that come out at night, haven't gotten that far in the story.  Might be what happens to people who get infected and don't die or some kind of weird mutation. Super Mario world
Super soccer 
Final fantasy tactics
Earthbound
Secret of mana

I use a program called zsnes (i think) just youtube the best one with the year 2014/2015 for the most recent The whole game is QT events. Ah the old switchit reddaroo That gap tho I totally understand.    

I'll say this... there is no other MMO, or any game for that matter, that could ever match the depth of the EVE community but at times it felt more like a lifestyle than a game. i had that desk, and the same thing happened to me RIP NdaNda If you're into JRPGs Chrono Trigger is very good. I would recommend megaman x, donkey kong country 1 and 2 (i didn't play 3) and of course super mario world.  It's still going to be 65 GB on the PC. You the game about boxes in a game which was inside a box metaphor? Or do we have to go deeper? Rayman 3 
No, not a Rayman Legends or Origins, a 3D Rayman. A Rayman 4. I loved the 3D Rayman games and I think they should make another one. niceee Good Luck High Five?? What's wrong with Doge, huh! I bought h1z1 yesterday and I love it! I didn't know this game existed til your post, thanks! Don't blink. Don't even blink. Chrono Trigger

Legend of Zelda : Link to the Past

Final Fantasy 6

Starfox

Mario RPG

Earthbound (already mentioned)

Mega Man X 
 Spent days just delivering pizzas... Some didn't make it lol Astros. Steel series Siberia's. Almost all are compatible with both just check on the main website before purchasing for an informational piece on them and it should say Kung-fu QTEs are best QTEs.

Make sure to look into the extras for literal shadow cloning. I figured it out, but not until after shadow playing an MMO to realize it. For me it's more likely to happen while moving, jumping, and trying to activate a keybind of shift + something else. I can see why that would be annoying Well, 100+ people ruined that.  You may now safely upvote! From Dust. 
Could have been awesome.  System Shock2.  The intro requires you to select your character's background.  Each path takes you to a different field, with vastly different starting skills.

You don't have to keep adding points into those areas after you start, but they give you a good starting point to make a specialized character.

OSA is sneaky/psionics 
Navy is more technical
Marines are your combat skills.  If its the first time you have played SS2, Marines is your best bet. And he wakes up in a different pod He did, hence the shakes. Gooooood work, Reece. Retard. Phrasing. Boom! Just gonna call bullshit on this, when I broke my 3DSXL under warrenty they still charged me shipping but did the repairs for free under warrenty. i meant mostly what that means. got a pic of it?

that pricing sounds crazy :o  ZSens Emulator - can also play online with your buddies If you didn't carjack the guy do you still get that sweet car after the mission? Not the exploded car but the one he tried to escape in? Look for ZSNES (not sure if this is still what's used, but it's the one I used the most over the years and still use on my old laptop for emulating SNES games).


RPG- 

* Super Mario RPG
* Chrono Trigger
* Earthbound
* Secret of Mana
* FF3
* Legend of Zelda: A link to the past. 
* Super Mario World
* Sunset Riders 
* Donkey Kong Country (1, 2, 3) 
* Yoshi's Island
* Pocky and Rocky
* Contra 2
* Earthworm Jim (1, 2)
* Kirby's Dreamland 
* Castlevania IV
* TMNT: Turtles in Time
* Starfox
* Megaman X
* Super Metroid
* Mario Kart


Go hunt stuff like "Top 100(/50/25/10) SNES games" for more titles to checkout. 


Enjoy!
 I have already. He's barred me from seeing my niece and I can't be around when he's visiting with my parents. All because I smoke the ganja. Why has he shopped what looks like the headsets LED as well? Flick between both pictures.

[Why?](http://i.imgur.com/C3KF9yQ.jpg) How is Destiny doing? I have not played it since September and am too impatient to wait out the cut scenes to get back on.  Hold my Abacus, I'm taking the dive! Hauling a load of Fushigi's? It's Russian for bitch I believe.  The best podcast ever was 1up yours. Mainly the shows when Luke Smith started and once he left is when it's pretty much done being good. I haven't found a podcast since 1up yours and GFW Radio that really hooked me wish that was the case. My brother's always been a douche, but not "ban you from seeing your own family" douche. I can't wait for the Game Theory video explaining how Dying Light and Mario take place in the same universe. wow Super Metroid
Donkey Kong Country 3 (yup, it's good too) lirikThump I use snes9x as my emulator it's very good, very responsive. Let's you map buttons to a game pad using any usb controller which is also nice and it also has game genie intergrated into it as well Definitely needs a solid sequel. PCs can play DVDs? What a time to be alive! &gt; more fallacy you're inventing to suit your own discussion. And yeah, you were talking in circles and contradicting yourself, but w/e. 

Whatever, indeed? Can you please point out specifically where I have committed fallacy? Can you point out where I have contradicted myself? If you can't then my points stand.

&gt; the whole point was to talk about unwarranted dlc ripped from the main content of the game, content that the customer already paid for.

But you haven't paid for the content, have you? It is sold separately. That's what DLC is, right?

&gt; But you and others decided to go on a morality rant as if that has anything to do with anything.

Here's the question you originally asked:

**Is there anyone that can actually provide a valid argument against the actions and ethical/moral reasoning of the hypothetical gamer in question?**

Seems to me that you wanted to talk about morality. I don't really understand it either, for the most part. I've got a crazy backlog - I don't have time to watch strangers play games. Although I watched an hour or two of some random YouTuber playing Don't Starve. I had about 2 hours into the game myself and wanted to see how someone else approached it. Don't Starve is a unique game though...  Spideys got to shoot his web somehow? HO HO HO! And I shall give to you! 100 bits /u/changetip I remember this place. You're dredging through the poisonous swamps of Blightown, tired from fending off mosquitoes and giants and worrying about whether or not you have enough antidote moss to cure the poison. The air is hot and humid, and the place smells fouler than any corpse you've ever seen.

By chance, you stumble upon a tree root cluster. You sigh in relief. Finally, a break from the toxic miasma. You clamber onto it, and see the roots making a path down below.

Curious, you follow the path. No enemy greets you, only some strange little mushroom creatures. You are nearly lost in the roots, when you finally see what looks like an exit.

You cautiously head out of there, only to fall off a root and onto... sand?

Yes, there is sand. You survey your surroundings. A beach, this is a beech.

An ominous music starts playing, and you suddenly feel smaller. Much smaller. You see massive trees, but where are the branches?

Your eyes trail upward, and you almost fall backward in surprise. The trees are going above water's surface. Wait... where is the sky?! It's water! You're underwater! 

You feel like this is an ancient place, a special and sacred place. As you sit next to a sandy bonfire, you look up again at these massive trees. You don't know how the fire stays lit, or why you're alive, but you are. 

This is a special place indeed.

(If you want me to write another story about a location, ask away!)

 There's both, don't worry. Im hoping that war for th overworld Will deliver.

Also VtM:Bloodlines need a sequel. Goddamn i want to play in a panicked vampire world as gehenna goes on. Pictured: 16 empty boxes ready to be shipped in an attempt to scam 16 poor schmucks. Last year I bought a turtle beach headset that came with a piece you can plug into a 360 controller. I want this to be a DLC. It'd make me break my streak for the "Go Outside" Achievement and everything! thats pretty cool. Thanks for the clarification. I enjoyed all the bioshock games so I'll definitely check out system shock some day  That you're a bitch, or something along those lines. Some people do, actually. The players don't have to have the absolute highest skill level for it to still be entertaining to watch. That's pretty funny. You do know that the "Non-DRM" community is a tiny, tiny little dot compared to Steam right? You won't even hear about GOG or non-DRM games unless you really look into PC gaming. Most PC gamers use Steam/Origin and a handful of people use GOG. Good

 All Xbox turtle beach wired headsets work. Audio and microphone jacks are all you need Cyka means Bitch in Russian. Rat bastard. Well after what happened in E3, there's too much salt to deal with. Because Nintendo didn't include a charger. Way better than FF7. I never did beat Melbu Frahma because I had no idea Rose got the Dragon Buster at the end, so I leveled up Albert and Kongol instead.
Relevant side note: http://i.imgur.com/vM6euDX.jpg Just a widerr shade of braaaillle  Sorry for bringing it up. I hope you can forget it again...hopefully, I can too. Iggy Pop? Desert Strike. I spent hours and hours playing this game when I was a kid. Huehuehue call it what you will, but this is what happened to me https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SZoHSce004M Fallout and red dead redemption. Pleeeeeease. Cool. Let us know when a good post shows up. Why do you think Donkey Kong kidnapped her? Assassins Creed Unity comes very recently to mind What, and here I am refusing my parents' offer to buy me a tv. (They bought it anyways) If you're playing on a Mac OpenEMU is the greatest thing since sliced bread The first PS consoles did not have that cool "screensaver" when playing music. Later ones all ended having disc speed issues, you had to place the PS upside down, held by books because the top could not be pressed down, just so the correct rotation speed could be attained.

CDs are digital, the disc player has nothing to do with the music quality. It's the AK4309 dedicated DAC inside the original PS that makes the sound awesome. Looks like the 780 packaging and cord I wonder if Nintendo has some sort of stipulation against unauthorized third-party sellers that could get these cock gobblers in some trouble ayy lamo Since I had just bought the HD Collection a few months prior, I was a little annoyed at the games going on +... Until one day I played the digital and noticed it seemed off compared to the disc. Are the downloads that were free actually the HD versions? Now that Naruto is done, maybe we can get another .hack game from CC22?

Right?

Guys? Horse armor. You know the game.  I have to agree, VERY few games live up to the level of excitement that the marketing department can drum up, even trying is often pointless. Its so easy to lie about what can be done, but actually doing it? that costs $$$ and time that aren't available  The PSX support for this is pretty solid, too. On a scale of 1 to 10, how pissed are you that there wasn't room for a "p" at the end of your username? Yeah, it isn't global, but it isn't out of place if the game is actually on steam, which most games are (I'm looking at you EA and Ubisoft) http://www.polygon.com/2015/1/23/7877039/dying-light-release-date-free-dlc To me, the story of a game is what makes it good. I mean, multiplayer's fun but a good campaign is what every good game needs.  cyka ='tsuka' = bitch 

Not sure about blyat Ever heard of google... Kill rabid squirrels with a machine gun, kill dragon with bow ???? Definitely do this and then download the fan-made HD mod and wake of gods. Runs flawlessly at 1920x1080 and gives you a ton of new content and features (which can individually be turned on and off if you don't like them). Why does she look like a zombie lol Then that too was higher priority than the scar, or necessary in order to complete another high-priority upgrade, or made overwhelmingly easy in the process of completing a high-priority upgrade. I don't know how nanobots think. So true Shoutout /r/MortalKombat 