My work has Lysol spray in very stall. Unfortunately some women believe they have to spray down the entire stall before they can use it, making every other person in the room unable to breathe.  On the menu next to the price it should have just said "Your colon". Most women's restrooms have a dispenser that will give you a couple of tampons for a buck or so but sometimes you need the heavier backup and that's when you might appeal to your sisters. Especially if there aren't other witnesses (as could likely be the case with a couple living in what sounds like a rural area).

Did they clean themselves up before they came in to use the phone? Were they visibly intoxicated? Did they seem upset, relieved, distraught, or...? Did he demonstrate regret for what he did at that point? What did he say, what words were used? (Sorry for switching pronouns around but I think the point gets across &amp; I'm too lazy to edit).


Prosecution could use info to try to build a case for a stronger case for a higher charge; defense could try to utilize to demonstrate lack of planning/compromised state of mind.

The difference between manslaughter, 1st degree murder, 2nd degree murder, and capital murder is, IIRC, 10-15 years minimally between charges, with death being the maximum. No, OP'S and his friends statements wouldn't be the main thing, but that stuff *is* taken into account.  I would assume that if one were to commit a murder, then tell someone about it minutes after it happened, that'd be important. There are just some things that men don't need to know. Somebody else already said take her out for apology drinks. I think that's a grand idea because fuck it why not? We only live once Crying on command. Red flag. Like everyone else has said. You didnt FU at all. I've been in a similar situation before and i know you wont want to hear it, but if he was stringing you along while setting himself up with someone else, you should definitely walk away. No one deserves to be treated like that. Rip that metaphorical bandaid off. Sure, It would hurt more but you'll heal quicker rather than slowing picking it at cause at the end of the day, it wasnt your fault.
You deserve to be some lucky guys priority and not an option/safety net.
I know it might sound meaningless from someone youve never met but you'll be okay, and one day soon youre gonna be great! Just remember you arent alone either. Ive got your back and so does everyone else too! Guys will say anything to get a good bj when they are drunk.  Your SO would love you bald. That's not a great indicator of attraction.

And I was saying that women who cut their hair are less interested in sex. Any simple search will back this up. You will have to wade through all the female magazines that attempt to make short hair cool or hip. 

Why does this matter so much? 

Here is a non US article from a female targeting magazine. 

http://www.dailymail.co.uk/femail/article-1092019/Does-short-haircut-mean-women-gone-sex.html

People that are masters of their field, namely human psychology and attraction describes what I'm saying. Men find longer hair more attractive across the board. Women know men desire longer hair. There for women who cut their hair short are purposefully making themselves less attractive. There are numerous factors determkng attractiveness so short hair doesn't make a woman undesirable only less attractive than she was before the hair cut. 

Quite a large number of women that cut their hair short are overwhelmed mothers that don't want to take care of long hair. They are also not worried about attracting a mate nor ensuring she is "desirable" enough for sex. She already has kids and most likely a husband. Sex is the last thing on her mind.

This also explains why there is a stereotype that short haired women are lesbians. Obviously this isn't universally true but you should be able to understand why that stereotype started. 

These concepts don't change much. Denying them doesn't change anything. This is just how biology works. Sometimes people can't handle truths like this for some reason.  You should've said after: "It's a joke i know you can't have kids" This guy gets it I was a 15R ( Apache Crewchief ) while I was in and deployed and I would never take way from the guys on the ground going through hell and back. We went a few missions to support our A/C and a couple of patrols, but it was the ground guys that were the true force. I and my company did all we could to support them and keep them safe from above. I have any all respect for those guys and what they did.  Pro tip: don't meet someone at their house for a first date/first hook up  The only reason I know that name is because of Once Upon A Time.  If it aint Boeing, i aint going. Its ok op just start slowly with a half mile walk every day.  Your post was removed for breaking the rules. You most likely broke rule #7, #10 or #11. If you believe this was in error, please message the mods with a link to your post.


*[I am a bot](/r/AutoModerator/comments/q11pu/what_is_automoderator/), and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2Ftifu) if you have any questions or concerns.* Your post was removed for breaking the rules. You most likely broke rule #7, #10 or #11. If you believe this was in error, please message the mods with a link to your post.


*[I am a bot](/r/AutoModerator/comments/q11pu/what_is_automoderator/), and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2Ftifu) if you have any questions or concerns.* Good ol' Illuminati. A great action - but did you ever went to the home again and checked if they got a new dog? 

Mostly there a 2 kinds of people abusing animals: The one that think that a dog is like a funny thing, which needs no care and no money and others, who just abuse their animal because they think its okay to put a dog in a 2square meter cage, because it's "just a dog".

If the people you got the dog from, were in the first category, they would maybe be happy, because they just underestimated the effort of owning a dog. If the people were the second category, they maybe just got another dog to abuse, because they don't understand what's wrong in their way of treating a dog. Guy, could we all stop with these immature menstrual jokes. They just are not funny Period. Thank you for the support :) Thanks :) Op got raped. truth serum Thanks! NEVER ever mention the baby bump even if you have 100% confidence it IS a baby bump. Thanks :) WTF OP your going to leave your broke ass homie who could have saved up for his own phone by now for  laying the ground work!? hahahahahahah! oh well it will still be wonderful don't stress. Dm;hs. 
You're internet famous.  
Yup got a free chocolate bar.  
If she went talk to you anymore, maybe one of her roommates will, cause you're famous Pride comes before a fall, I guess.  Also "found out" is very different than "decided." &gt; but I do know I'm literally going to leave that motherfucker in Kansas City.

Not good enough. Drive to Mexico and leave him in a desert somewhere. I would. Nice repost  Google for low-level format My feels. Oh yeah, totally. When you're that obese being asked if you're pregnant is actually a compliment. "I must really be slimming down, Brodington thought I only looked pregnant!" Not really.  He's already posted on social media a bunch that he found the dog and it isn't his and looking for the owners.  That's enough proof if the owners wanted to make a big thing out of it. I'm seriously ovary this. I love how the update is a fuck-up :') 
 I blame shitty quality toilet paper in public restrooms.

Seriously, women have 3x as many functions necessitating toilet paper. Not just ass wiping... but also pee and blood. And that worthless TP, as soon as you start ripping off what you actually need, little paper shreds independently detach themselves and the fuckers just float to the floor, where they'll remain until the janitor comes in to clean up the place. 

Now personally, if I'm responsible for any said escapee toilet paper fragments I grab a strip to scoop up the errant pieces with. I can understand why others might not want to or would even think of doing this. However, I hate that women are being completely blames when much of the fault lies with the horrible quality of toilet paper. I've used many, many, many public restrooms during my life and I can say based on my observations the majority of litter in ladies' rooms is indeed said wayward toilet paper. 

Now, this doesn't account for the disgusting people that leave bloody tampons on the seat or whatever - but there are equivalent male-perpetrated acts that are just as disgusting. Shitting in the urinal, for example. Just please don't make that same tired, biased arguments that women are, in general, grosser - it's just not true. 

You must remember the toilet paper.  Your submission has been automatically removed because your post is too short. Please add more context to the text box, then [message the mods](http://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2FTIFU&amp;amp;subject=My%20post%20was%20too%20short%20please%20review&amp;amp;message=My%20post%20was%20too%20short%20please%20review%3a%0d%0a%0d%0ahttp://www.reddit.com/r/tifu/comments/2u2vze/tifu_by_aggravating_the_majority_of_reddit/) to have your post approved.


*[I am a bot](/r/AutoModerator/comments/q11pu/what_is_automoderator/), and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2Ftifu) if you have any questions or concerns.* The point of the mad dash is that you are overflowing... yes, even overflowing overnight style pads or tampons. Edited to comment that my "normal" pad is the overnight type, the thickest that they come that I have found. There is no safe way to exchange a new one for the other at this point, almost any movement can cause the gush. There is usually already leakage. Even if using a towel, there is still clothes you are wearing and blankets, sheets, and mattress to think of.

Pads and tampons do not absorb instantaneously, they are more for over time. Gushes or even a trickle don't work. Some women get pain from tampons, so using both to sleep does not work, anyway.

Get a washrag and fold it twice. Turn on the water, put the washrag under the faucet. Quite a lot of over spillage before it soaks. Now that it's soaked, though, there's a limit to how much it'll continue to soak up. This is how pads and tampons work. Even if you have the faucet on a continuous trickle, there will be over spillage for a bit. Slow and small amounts will keep it from overflowing, but there's not really a way to make that happen for women that have heavy periods - it's not that we're not trying hard enough, we take every precaution we can. B+ if you ask me. Yeah that's a good point... they were listening to them have a convo &amp; sex bit weird  Really gets the thrust going. I was going to scroll past this until I saw your username. I think I eat breakfast wrong. I eat the cereals, trying not to use the milk, then I drink the big pool of sweet milk that's left over at the end. /shrug I used to have a big purse with all kinds of shit in it, then I down sized because there was just no way I would need 80% of that stuff on a daily basis. I don't have anything extra with me ever now, and it hasn't been an issue yet.  Well, shiiiiiit. Right, but that's an odd thing to do.

I've occasionally done that, but that would then be a notable point of any anecdote where I pretend to ring someone for hours. We need to go deeper. deflowered virgin stories are funny but they are beginning to become banal, following a formula. I sure hope not. I mean, she's a crazy lady, I'm not sure I can tell you what she gets up to when she has her own time, but I'd really hope she'd tell me! We might have to have a talk, the peroxide *was* missing last month. What if she... what if... what if she's drinking it? What if she's putting it in a clear container with the lid open and waited for it to turn into [H2O](http://infohost.nmt.edu/~jaltig/HydrogenPeroxide.pdf)? Wow, this is all *complete* bullshit. /r/shorthairedhotties is thriving for a reason. I didn't say my SO loves me in spite of my short hair, I said he loves my short hair. As in, when I suggest growing it out, he said he likes it the way it is.   

There is no biological reason that men would be more attracted to long hair than women would. It's not like men are incapable of growing long hair or only do it when they're sick or something. It's entirely societal, and as such, more exception than rule.   

And women who cut their hair want less sex? That's *definitely* bullshit. That's like, worse than stupid evo psych, you're trying to do current psychology on people who exist today using stereotypes and your penis's opinion.  Your DailyMail link isn't exactly making that situation better. 

I'd bet money you frequent TRP or ROK.  This is one of the best TIFUs I've read in a while, I actually cringed when I read the fuck up... you lost me at SFW  
Then I thought of this and came here to write it :D  
Now I'm going to read it cause I feel stupid Or a 1 mile walk... It's what I'm doing (I'm pudgy and want to goto West Point. Many fitness needed) Yeah... It's difficult to fault OP for implying the teacher was pregnant directly after the teacher says that she's "going to have a daughter"

Who the hell doesn't say "We're adopting!" anyway. You're a woman. You should know about that rule. NEVER SAY ANYTHING ABOUT THE BELLY EVER So fucking glad I'm a guy.  Or like a toddler. Why would anyone wear those muu-muus? He looked like a noble hamster. I'm a man, I just never say anything ever. I too hate shitty toilet paper.  I always appreciate quality toilet paper in an establishment.   Agreed.  No clue why you'd get downvoted for agreeing with a comment upvoted 100+ times. Reddit is puzzling. Well aren't you just a shining light of happiness Sell her your soul in penance. According to my urologist, urine is supposed to be roughly the color of a light Dijon mustard. I feel that today's quote, from the Bitch of the Day Daily Calendar, is relevant:


"Whoever said, "Diamonds are a girl's best friend," must have never had an orgasm that made her forget her own name."  Relevant username? you don't plan on using your high school education?  how do you intend to support yourself?  what are your plans for the future?  there are no "alternatives" here; take the second chance you've been given and finish your schooling.  you will literally regret this forever, seriously listen to what everyone on this thread is telling you right now. BIG MISTAKE
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6TxL-xk0V14 TWL that learning is power! The bit about the medal being classified reminds me of Hot Shots!  Haha.  A woman could look 9 months pregnant sitting in a waiting room at her Ob/Gyn reading What to Expect When You're Expecting and I wouldn't dare ask her or comment about her being pregnant.  

Inevitably the response would be "I'm just waiting for my sister and picked up her book because I was bored.  Thanks for pointing out my 9 lb stomach tumor, shitlord!" Fuck farts. Not really that great if you want a quick breakfast.

How long does it take cereal to sink? Didn't hear about it. "...it's called being handicapitated"

FTFY When it comes to adoption it isn't. You go through a rigorous process and then once they decide you can adopt you find out you can adopt. At least that's what I've come to understand. I'd cut some slack on that; but the prof set her self up on this. Never assume a woman is pregnant unless you can see an actual baby coming out of her at that moment. [It's from here](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=o0u4M6vppCI) you sound insecure.  stop trying to take it out on women and maybe you'll have better luck with them. This looks like a total win to me. As others have said, you haven't ruined your chances with this guy, not at all. Whatever happens with him, though, you and your sister now have a good story to share. Well done! u r Still technically Asian   I'd just tell her. It's her fault anyway. You say "clearances" like gov't clearances? Cause once they start the process to cancel those - it's done.  This thread has been linked to from elsewhere on reddit.


 - [/r/5555555] [TIFU by eating catfish in Thailand and turning myself into a ticking time bomb (link r/tifu)](http://np.reddit.com/r/5555555/comments/2u2xjp/tifu_by_eating_catfish_in_thailand_and_turning/)


*^If ^you ^follow ^any ^of ^the ^above ^links, ^respect ^the ^rules ^of ^reddit ^and ^don't ^vote ^or ^comment. ^Questions? ^Abuse? [^Message ^me ^here.](http://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2Fmeta_bot_mailbag)*

 Good guy OP, posts a TIFU about something that actually happened today.  You should've worn a condom at least the family would know they're safe from diseases through radio waves. Like airborne AIDS Same (: &gt; Today, January 28th 2015, will forever live in infamy.

Until it is all forgotten during midterms. Hm, I just noticed that the drawbridge looks like a penis and there are "balls" in the reflection on the water. Replete I would say.  "We'll pretend this didn't happen" is the best outcome on both sides. Boss is just as embarrassed as you about it. I haven't deleted anything you dumb fuck.  How stupid can you get? Not proof it's theirs though. What if it was just somebody that wanted a free dog, saw the post and decided to claim it as theirs. Or... neither? A "wok" is a Chinese food prep item, so unless kitchenware is now a race, not racist. And again, he wasn't intending to insult the dude,  "walking distance" is a normal, everyday phrase. Soo.. ?  You get no say in who you adopt? He deleted his account and the stories were removed due to some disclaimer.

 This is why there are those meme things where it is telling you when it is OK to ask when someone is pregnant..  and it is never. lol Plot twist: Got thrown out of school after rape charges If you're going to tell her to go away, then you owe her a conversation. If you're not telling her to go away, but still feel worried, then you owe yourself a conversation. Either way man, you've got to speak to her. Ouch. Never, ever, mention a woman's stomach.  I watched a guy really mess up after a woman had her baby a few weeks before and he asked her when she was expecting.  Is she Kate good though? Wow, someone's sensitive that I called him out on being ugly.

You said you were earlier. I guess it sucks when someone else thinks it other than you.  Also known as "queefs." It's nice that you're re-assuring yourself, because you're the only one in this thread who's going to have that problem. Either you jog very slowly or those people are fast walkers. No. Multiple jobs, five dads. Never imply a woman is pregnant unless you can see the baby coming out of her.
Even then, best to just get out of the way and not say anything. Still no reply to mine. I'm really anxious about it! She got her bitchelors  Wow, you sure know how to make an entrance to Reddit. To be fair, saying "we're going to *have* a daughter" is pretty misleading and your reaction was only natural.  I laughed hysterically at the title thinking you peed on someone tactically dressing as a bush.  "wok"ing as a pun is not racist. He is not making fun of their race/speech/culture, he is making a word play between "walk" and one of the main type of pans the cooking of said food involves...

If "walking" had been the joke because of the wheelchair, ableist would apply tho. So, as a mom though adoption, can I add the word "abnormal" to my list of attributes now?  That comment is still there.  Look in my post history since you love doing that so much.  Your stupidity is giving me a headache What, no pocket phone? I don't know how this stereotype still exists. It may be time to switch it to another country. It's a trap, everyone knows it's Crumpledforeskin. You do but the initial getting approved phase may have led to the "we just found out" we could adopt instead of the "we have decided to adopt" The deciding probably took place before the finding out. Not after its been on the public bathroom floor for 9 hours. I refer to my "winter coat" because shaving aggravates my dry skin in the dry weather as does longer in the shower. I keep my pits shaved but my legs get a great unveiling come spring.  Thanks it was good while it lasted  I feel like [this](https://38.media.tumblr.com/tumblr_m4iudbN64y1rwcc6bo1_500.gif) after I shampoo and condition my beard. Well honestly you didn't come Clean for her.  You came clean to make yourself feel better.  Knowing this information could hurt her the best thing would have been to just deal with it but telling her makes you feel good.  Wouldn't expect her to accept it.  But hopefully it teaches you a Lesson for Your next relationship.  Once you've been cheated on its hard to forget.  Had a gf do it to me.  We stayed together for a few years but couldn't forget it.  Good luck.  Keep us posted.   Your inability to accept this biological fact doesn't surprise me. Somehow the idea that short hair is less attractive is offensive to you. I have no idea why though. It shouldn't matter if longer hair is more attractive. If you choose to not research this yourself I can't change that. Your blind belief that short hair is attractive has no biological justification. At least long hair is explained by the display of youth and health. 

Is it so hard to believe that humans have mating rituals and display themselves a certain way for attraction? This is all over the animal kingdom. Hell even males are the ones that have to display something large and attractive like the Peacocks.

And if you would even bother reading any of my other posts in TRP you would see that your assumption for my visiting that subreddit is incorrect. As I also visit /r/feminism /r/relationships /r/woodworking /r/funny etc. By visiting a subreddit one must be fully on board with the stereotype associated with that board right? Seems you've done the exact same thing you are complaining so much about.. stereotype someone.

Calling something bullshit doesn't make it so. Your husband actually loving your short hair is bullshit. You obviously have no idea how men work or think. He loves you and therefor would love your hair short, because it's your hair. He loves your hair. He probably loves your eyes, your body, your voice. Men love women period. 

Have you really thought people have literally evolved in the past 100 years to no longer find long hair attractive? What is /r/rok btw? I'll need to check that one out. If it's on your 'man hating list' then it could be worth while.

My wife cut her hair short as well. Not nearly as short as yours but still she cut about 12 inches off. I love her hair. I love it more longer but in no way do I want her to have longer hair just to satisfy some silly need of my biology. Her being able to take care of her hair easier and have less split ends and knots is more important to me. 

Understanding a situation and consciously choosing not to let it control you is what humans are about. But it doesn't change the situation. What biological reasoning would short hair on a woman be attractive? Or are you saying that nothing physical on a woman should be attractive to a male?

And there IS a biological reason men would be attracted to longer hair then women. Women cannot procreate with another woman. That's pretty darn simple. Long hair, wide hips, clear complexion, symmetric face are all characteristics of someone with good genes. Meaning your children will have a stronger chance to survive.  You really believe that the woman's movement from the 60's and 70's some how changed the human biological imperative in the span of a few decades? Hell there are people still alive that were around when women couldn't vote. Plus I never said women are more attracted to short hair women or that women wouldn't find long hair attractive. The idea is that women who cut their hair short know that it decreases their attractiveness to men.

Why is it so offensive to you that biology plays a role in attraction? Do you shave your legs, under arms, genitals? Do you brush your hair or style it? Do you wear any make-up? We all do things that try to make ourselves a little more attractive to others. It isn't evil or immoral. 

You take all this as completely offensive. It's like you being mad that the Earth orbits around the Sun. 
 Sounds legit to me. Yep. You apply, you fill out endless paperwork, you get your house ready, and then you wait. And wait. 

Until you finally get a call. You've been chosen to adopt a baby. This baby. Next week. 

Trust me, it comes as a bit of a shock when that call finally comes!  This. Absolutely. Own upto it, of you care you'll be honest. That's what's needed here if you want to salvage anything.  I just ordered one, and I think I am actually excited to get my period next month... well, almost excited lol Groots unshaven dick hahaha. You Pulitzer Prize you.  well then, let it go Give this man gold  Truth burns. but..but girls don't fart? RIGHT GUYS?????? Seriously in this day and age how can you not have a mobile? Anyone can have one regardless of their income. PS. How old is your boss? I broke my uncle's antique Chinese vase, it was insured for 60k.  yeah, i'm not sure how those kinds of court cases would go... it's not like 'proving innocence' I don't imagine.


the owners might have pictures though which will also help their case, among other things. Just say you saw the glow in the future Never go full retard.  Fair point. I'd still have said "we've been approved" though. Those that I just mentioned in a comment above. Fret not, you aren't alone. There are others like you.  So when do you have sex with him?  what did you gag on? No.  You were right the first time.  We are  loonies.

Also good story.  I grew up with sisters so the period thing didnt weird me out. Funny though! I feel like this is LPT material.  Oh jebus. That's awesome. XD 

 Dude try the craft breweries in America when you can. You won't talk shit on American beer anymore  At first I thought she had brought another guy home

Then I loled and realized That's amazing. 

And it just occurred to me that probably 80% of what I carry is actually kid related. Do you manage this feat with kids?  I've never once done the 'eject safely' thing and I've never had any issues with any of my memory sticks or cards. 

is it really that damaging? Well, yes? As a guy, I find this charming.  new 'murica I was in my office yesterday where several women were freaking out because someone had smeared blood on the walls of the stall. I asked if someone had announced that the chamber of secrets had been opened....Come say hey explodingtampon!  ...at least her turned himself in.  Booya!!! OP delivered! Holy fuck that's heat breaking I See &lt;_&gt; Hhahahahaha  what primer? Expected ladyboys. Not dissapointed! Dude you should complain to your principal and see where this goes.  please complain to someone either your parents or your principal asking for an extra credit is not a crime .

 accusing you of rape now that is a crime I think you should complain to your principal and tell the principal if nobody  writes you any recommendation latter you will fail a complain against your teacher and the principal  if they were you neglect you hope you take action He is adapting to survive. I like him. it's from an anime called Neon Genesis Evangelion, one of the later episodes, i'm very surprised to see it here. And on today's episode of Why Touchscreens are Satan... What kind of an idiot borrows someones phone to sext his gf? Furthermore, you can get a cell plan for less than $10 a month! Dude, your friend is an ass.  Seriously try Heady Topper before you start talking shit Que pedo we! He only wanted kisses Is she one of those people who seeks out reasons to be offended?  The way she phrased it (many people choose the sex of their adoptee, so nothing to find out) sets her up for someone misinterpreting it.  That's much less euphemistic for "pregnancy" than other pregnancy euphemisms like "expecting a baby".  If everyone else knew, she should've told you before then, too. I wouldn't feel bad.  Nice. Thanks for that. 'Cause parenting isn't tough enough already. 

I suppose my child is abnormal too, eh? 

You know what, you have a hell of a lot to learn about how the world actually works, and the infinite variety of human relationships in it. 

Your definition of "normal" is apparently as narrow as your mind is. 

Edit: most of the time I am sunshine and smiles about adoption stigma. I try to be a gentle educator, quietly challenging outdated language and pointing out how it contributes to the sense of "otherness" that many adoptees and their parents feel. 

And sometimes, very rarely, I am just over it. 

A lot of this thread is filled with people who have no experience with adoption, pontificating about how the adopting mother somehow got her own language wrong, about how she "should" have spoken about what's going on in her life, and about what is and isn't normal. 

And, for once in a blue moon, I'm letting it show that that state of things pisses me off. 

I don't need consolation, I'm an excellent parent of a now 8 year old daughter, I've been doing this for awhile. I've managed my "chip" just fine irl, thanks. I don't actually care how many adopted second cousins' nieces' brothers you know, I'm not going to fuck off or get over myself. 

I'm ok with being angry, every once in awhile, about careless language that is hurtful.  

Have a great day.  you are a blast at parties, aren't you? 
 But he did call her fat!  "You look pregnant even though you're not." The spy was from within.. hahaha You've got plenty of time to try and fix it. Shut the water supply off at the back of the toilet going into the wall and drain it down. You might be able to get some putty and some good white silicone and pull off a decent repair. Anything to avoid the damage charges!  The Hershey Process milk chocolate used in these bars is cheaper to make than other types of chocolate as it is less sensitive to the freshness of the milk. The process was developed by Milton Hershey and was the first mass-produced chocolate in the United States. As a result, the Hershey flavor is widely recognized in the United States, but less so internationally, in particular in areas where European chocolates are more widely available. The process is a trade secret, but experts speculate that the milk is partially lipolyzed, producing butyric acid, which stabilizes the milk from further fermentation. This compound gives the product a particular sour, "tangy" taste, to which the US public has become accustomed, to the point that other manufacturers often add butyric acid to their milk chocolates.[1] The American bar's taste profile was not as popular with the Canadian public, leading Hershey to introduce a reformulated Canadian bar in 1983.[2] The company describes the revised Canadian formulation as a "creamier, smoother, lighter coloured and milder flavoured product more suitable to Canadian taste". Butyric acid is the component which provides the characteristic smell of human vomit,[3] and many Europeans describe the taste of Hershey bars as reminding them of vomit, even if they do not know the underlying chemistry.[4][5] Can't hold it back anymore... Let it go, let it go! I am one with the wind and sky...

TIL this song is about farting. Twice a month or so I have to clean the rest rooms at work, annnnd most of time women's restrooms are horrible.  Something tells me you aren't joking... Your post was removed for breaking the rules. You most likely broke rule #7, #10 or #11. If you believe this was in error, please message the mods with a link to your post.


*[I am a bot](/r/AutoModerator/comments/q11pu/what_is_automoderator/), and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2Ftifu) if you have any questions or concerns.* What level of spiciness did your roommate have? The same as you? The peak on my scale is 8. Anything above or below is less "attractive" to me. Not saying anything else would be a no, but that's my peak. On that peak, all features are rated relative to the person, and all dimensions should be proportional relative to the person. A nice smile and personality trumps everything. He did say he would post in a couple months to let everyone know how he was doing if I remember correctly, maybe after the divorce proceedings are resolved.  Whether he does or not remains to be seen. I disagree, if she's pregnant then its happy, if she's a hippopotamus then she's bad and she should feel bad. Ouch.. My wife and I lost our first baby probably 6 months ago, we still occasionally get questions about whether or not the baby is here from well meaning folks. It doesn't hurt too bad so long after the fact, but always stings a little to re-live it over and over. I cannot imagine how hurt my wife would have been if someone approached her the way you did the girl at the club right after losing it though =(. Tits need to breathe when you're home from work. Fact. Damn I can't think of any more education related bitch puns :( And I thought only guys did things like that.

[relevant](http://www.reddit.com/r/funny/comments/2tym5t/when_is_it_okay_to_ask_if_a_womans_pregnant/) Is that you, Tucker Max? Is it "we", "guey" or "wei"? Hmmmm That is actually a good point! Double whammy, then. :P

Personally, I'd still be more offended by the miscarriage being [accidentally] rubbed in my face. ...is no one going to say this......ok.....TL;DR Maybe I'm just a sick, twisted freak of a woman, but I'd have held a bloody finger to my lips, said "Shhh..." and just gone about my business with no further comment. So when do you ask? RIP OP Awesome! Now, be aware there's a LiveJournal all about the cup so make sure to read that multiple times! My first time with the cup I had the hardest time getting it out. It's just that I had a poor concept of breaking the seal and thought I had to pull it out by the stem.  Happy relationship = Kitty legs. Sometimes I catch my fiance petting mine.  Yeah we were laughing about some of his coworkers calling him a hero, they act like he tackled the guy and held him there when he just handed him a phone. SAD sucks, you might want to look into getting a "happy light" they actually work. For withdrawal, try OTC unisom, the active ingredient is diphenhydramine HCI, which is non addictive and can help with sleep and calming the body down. Sounds like this is a passing thing for you, I hope it passes soon, best of luck! not sure where crucifixion comes in to play here......  Well, you are a Canadian, so you at least apologized for it and nobody will assume you did it on purpose. They were walking and you were jogging, but yet they were right behind you?...   hmm doesnt add up... rule 1 in that situation is just nod and say "that's nice!"

anything else is risky. This is exactly what I was wondering also Only when they are going into labor. Many here also make that mistake.. Shower sex You reminded me that pubic hair dye is a thing (Betty Beauty, Google it).  On a light day, maybe.  On a heavy day when you start cramping every time you shift position?  No fucking way. You had me at bearded and sweaty. Or she just had cum on her back.  I put the milk in after, so I have the correct ratio of cereal to liquid.  Continue updating, plz
 I  was hanging on a branch of thorns momentarily so I felt like crucified was a good word to throw in. &gt;incredibly hot guy

This is when I realized you were a girl, up until then I thought the only way it could possibly go down is you shitting yourself.

edit: yup OP could be a gay guy, but that was not my first thought or reaction, also guys aren't embarrassed by a fart alone usually The "others" are just children stuck inside the bodies of the cornflake eaters! Yeah you can't do that man. She'd have to do that for everyone. No sympathy. I've seen people ask for more marks on their papers but to get a higher mark for no good reason is stupid.  "I want to take it slow " - If that's not sexual inuendo meaning the complete opposite then I don't know what is! *Tips hat*

Made a typo, thanks for the correction. You should tell your mom you don't enjoy the dark, she sounds cool and that she would understand, maybe you can get some night lights around the house so you can walk around in peace. Donating your womb would actually take care of the problem for you. Just goes to show girls like that are only in anime... Thailand tends to produce sentences like that. In fact the favourite sentence I have from my experiences is this:

"And so, after drunkenly persuading a prostitute to give me the rest of her deep fried wasps, I walked up the street gorging on the wasps, and was so engrossed in my new snack I walked facefirst into an elephants arse" yea we also love to discuss your menstrual cycle! bring it up at dinner! weight loss tip #47 - read this post anytime between 11am - 1pm....daily.   And your ugliness is giving me a headache, but you don't see me complaining.

You sound like you're full of great qualities. Your posting history is starting to make more and more sense now.

The more defensive and butthurt you get, the more you are proving me right.  Your best bet at this stage is to get him totally blackout drunk, that way he won't remember a thing and won't know he spilled the beans. Problem solved! It's okay. Considering all women have instagrams and twitters and blogs, you're not any more vain than the rest of the narcicists of your gender. Yeah, the guilt was too much. Well, I guess I find out my fate tonight. I'm not expecting to still be together (Although that's all I want), but I suppose that's the best thing for her. Eh, your way is better for portion control, carry on! Why would you leave the dead kitten in there? The cat wouldn't give a fuck if it was just gone.  In a way it's good your mom knew... imagine her placing it back in the freezer... She was just making a phone catalogue though Yes, that's messed up. I think her real name is Gimpy. http://i.imgur.com/yZPuos3.gif Two women were on my local news last night for butt dialing 911 during a drug deal for $20 and the police heard it all going down in real time and played with them when they pulled them over until they realized what happened and they were already busted But it HELPS some ladies with period cramps! 

If you ride my crimson wave, it works better for me than Midol.

It's a win-win, really. http://youtu.be/-KRnCnuE3xU To the girl of the story, if you're reading this:

Don't be mad at him, he didn't use your name, we don't know who you are, there's no harm done. Plus he makes you sound like a great gal. Who you *should* be mad at is your meddling roommates, acting like 10y/o, having fun at this guys (and your) expense, and meddling in private affairs of others. They should be ashamed.

And before you say anything about it being private but posted to reddit.. keep in mind we don't know you or this guy, and will probably never meet IRL, so it's not the same.

If you guys like each other don't waste the chance to have some happy times just because of all of this. You'll laugh about it later, trust me :) i see. I was just confused, because I don't use crucified very often so I thought "Wait, am I thinking of the right thing here?"
 that sounds like it went tits up. Kurt was a scientist! This story would be far more believable had you not yelled "Finish Her" in the moments leading up to the incident.

Flawless Victory good sir... And then what? Jeez, don't leave us hanging. D: Do you like fish sticks? People who can cry on demand are psychopaths. 

Source: I'm a chick who can cry on demand. Bwahahahaha!  definitely an eating disorder there somewhere  I saw that he created a website with a shit ton of ads in it. My guess would be that he hooked people on reddit so he could get traffic on his site and get paid by the advertising companies. However, I do hope he comes back after "the divorce" because I liked his story. You forgot the number one rule never comment on a pregnant women's figure even if she brings it up. EVER!!!! &gt;[**I AM PUNCHING YOUR SALAD [0:10]**](http://youtu.be/-KRnCnuE3xU)

&gt;&gt;From asdf movie.

&gt; [*^beenthere1that*](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCPxIsv9IUdQLbc5PtwxfwCQ) ^in ^Entertainment

&gt;*^753,223 ^views ^since ^Aug ^2011*

[^bot ^info](http://www.reddit.com/r/youtubefactsbot/wiki/index) And that is why we fucking love Imodium. Don't consider it farting on him, consider it as spreading your scent... Oh my god yes, tampon stuffing conversation while eating spaghetti gets any man horny. Man, the story isn't that good, but the story telling is fantastic. I know, I'm solely to blame. I do love her a lot but yeah the trust has been shattered. very true :( Op's Username checks out "delicious" and "salad" don't belong in the same sentence.  This is what I came in here to say.

He was being honest and you can probably shame him into a personal apology to the boss. Yeah I'm not sure how it would go for him, we thought he might be confused and lost because he clearly wasn't drunk. He was very calm and collective like nothing even happen, he was just casually walking around talking to them. Even when he did speak he was very secretive and wouldn't say anymore then something happened at his property, he finally just very calmly said he would wait for the police outside. Best thing you can do is move on. I feel like he's getting best of both worlds by still being in frequent contact with you, and dating other girls. 

As much as you may not like it, I'd cut this guy off and forget about him.  The amazing thing is, Vargas actually knows that one important rule of Girl Code: Even if you hate her fucking guts, you give that loathesome bitch a tampon.  Name checks out... TIL: There is such as thing as revealing more than others need or want to know.

Sometimes it's best to go home and have a good cry and spare the rest of humanity from reliving your horrific experiences. We all have so many of our own to deal with already! I have a feeling this won't make her feel any better. It might make him feel better.  One of my best friends was in the building when it got hit (8 or 9 years before I met him), spent a couple of days buried in rubble before they could dig him out.  Had massive hip damage but managed to stay on active duty after he healed up.  He was a hospital corpsman and said the worst thing was he could hear everything going on around him and couldn't help his Marines. Your welcome ... I'm sure it will happen... Its all about relaxation and timing really :) it will come w time for sure just keep having faith and enjoy the fun of trying ;)  Everyone on reddit is male until proven female. Whenever I read things online I automatically assume the poster is a male just because the vast majority are. So when I read "TIFU by jogging with my sister" I immediately thought OP was a guy who got an erection from seeing his sisters boobs bounce around. What actually happened is much less disturbing. Peed pants... Conveniently blamed the coffee maker that can't defend itself... Seems like a win to me.  Ah. OK.  Marking her territory? This is interesting, and I may have been going through life all wrong.  I sense a parody in the making  It's particularly fun to pass a golfball sized clot of bloody tissue.

It pretty much looks like you passed a leech.

*I feel prettyyyyy oh so prettyyyy! I feel pretty and wittyyy and briiiighhht - GLORP!   Aw, FUCK.* This...is really brilliant. And makes me think you are either a former girl scout or soldier.  &gt;thought it was because I am ugly

&gt;I am actually good looking

&gt;gets on the offensive side when people call him out on it

Damn, you're one salty fucker, OP. My suggestion? 

Get out, hit the gym, and stop being such a loser. It's awesome when you find out a girl has a good sense of humor about herself.  You don't have to have a long period of awkward wooing and stepping on eggshells in the beginning, so you can get down to having fun together right away. crop dustin... Ohhh okay yea...us colleges do not care of you're there or not... More money for them if you're not there and past the drop date  Chick has a silly sense of humor, +100 to attractiveness.  Your welcome stranger :)  Desolee mon amie, je plaisante. 

Well, I also apologize for my poor french, for being the language I learned first I really suck at it now. 

I was joking about the 'you owe us thanks' I was being sarcastic, you don't have to thank us.  But, we bailed you out of 3 wars (WWI, WWII, and Vietnam), so don't act like we don't care about you.  BUT, to be fair, you bailed us out of our Revolutionary War, so it's all good buddy.  
 &gt; A man walked by with some stinking catfish on a BBQ made from an old oil drum. We all purchase some and dig in,its fucking delicious. We down bite after bite, drenched in sweet chili sauce. We had a great meal together and an awesome time in Pattaya.


At least here in India, much street food is not prepared in hygienic conditions. You missed the opportunity to show your confidence and own it in front of him. Reddit needs closure!  However fake or real the story is. I was happy it was a "didn't get arrested or beat up". Something tells me the people don't care. This has to be the best FU I've read since.... well, I don't know.... Aw, I wasn't prepared for THAT.  This needs to come with a sadness warning.  I was thinking building a warm place for kittens and things getting out of hand by kittens growing and having more kittens and there were tons of kittens everywhere.  What a downer. Seriously. Not sure why he's getting so whiny over it since he's fully aware of it.

The fact that he gets so defensive just screams how insecure he is. Defo and ugo. Uh oh OP... Looks like urine trouble. whats the point of your post? 

it seems like you made up an elaborate hypothetical scenario just to neg op's good action a little. wtf? Ground control, to Major AhMicCheck1212! Ground control, to Major AhMicCheck1212! Check "ignition", and may God's love be with you! M or T Awwww. I am sorry for your loss. Just... hope you don't over use this. Just don't. In this case, sure, but any other time, no. Don't. Just never do it. Not ever. No. Bad girl. Or ask her to be your gym buddy. So ya f-ed up to Brian Mulroney eh? I shave my head every summer. I have super dense naturally curly hair, it feels like a sweater on my head. I don't have the patience to grow it out, plus my boyfriend rubs/scratches my head all the time when it's shaved and that feels awesome. YEAH, FUCK AIRBUS! What the shit? How could he be so calm? Did she die while they were fuckin? Yeah those roommates are jerks. They shouldn't have been listening to your conversation. They had no right to humiliate you like that. I'm sorry that happened to you. This honestly pisses me off that someone could intentionally ruin a relationship like that just so they can get a few fucking giggles. I hope they feel bad if they do see this post. but you have their phone number from the flyer, that's all they would need to find them.  You were still in the right dude, the taxi should have parked up in the space. They do that round my way aswell, pisses me off, I'd have flashed and blocked him in. "She's disabled", you should have told him "so park in the empty space. What, you want her to fall up the kerb aswell as block the road for other drivers?" One day he's gonna be like "here, catch" and toss you a ring. Then you catch it and he'll be like "k we're engaged now lol" I see you trying to keep it real and all, but Milton Hersey would kick your ass if he saw you talking shit like this. And maybe I like vomit.  Twist it around then - you propose to him. :D I don't think saying that short hair is less attractive is offensive, I just think it's stupid. I think you pretending that you know the desires of every man on the planet is pretty offensive, though. Specifically that you think you know what my SO, who I have lived with and known for years, likes better than what I do. That's pretty offensive.

TRP is one of those subreddits where if you agree with any of their points, then I don't have much use for you. It's like agreeing with some of the points that /r/creepshots or /r/picsofdeadkids make. I don't need that.   

&gt;Calling something bullshit doesn't make it so. Your husband actually loving your short hair is bullshit.  

Was that irony purposeful? He actually just woke up and said "you should tell him to shut the fuck up. Short can be really sexy."   

I'm not saying men evolved to not be attracted to long hair, I'm saying they never evolved that as an imperative in the first place. It doesn't mean that men can't find long hair attractive, or even that most men don't. They probably do. I just don't think every little thing that someone thinks is cute is encoded in their DNA. I'm not saying there's any biological reason that short hair would be more attractive than long hair, I'm saying that, like hair or eye color, it's biologically neutral. I'm saying those opinions come from society and personal preference. And they're all still fine.  

ROK isn't a subreddit.     

And there IS a biological reason men would be attracted to longer hair then women. Women cannot procreate with another woman.   

What does that even mean? Men can grow long hair just as easily as women. Anyone can. So why aren't women all universally more attracted to men with long hair as an indicator of their good genes?   

&gt;The idea is that women who cut their hair short know that it decreases their attractiveness to men.  

Clearly I didn't "know" that, so that pretty much disproves that point right there.   

Why do you assume that any time someone thinks someone else is wrong, it's because they find it offensive? I'm not offended by you, I just think you're dumb.  And to round it all off he won. I wish, there's this drawing of this woman in our living room that always looks like it's changing her expression whenever I look at it, shit's haunting me for years. &gt;I can cry on command

R.I.P OP's boyfriend. Goodnight sweet prince. Your mom is probably fat. Haha. The dude must have felt so awkward if he realized that he was at the wrong meeting. At that point, you either get up and walk away while everyone stares at you like you are some type of alien life form, or you just sit through it and pretend you actually have a clue about what the hell they're talking about. It doesn't matter. I put the milk in second so the cereal doesn't splash.   We got a serial cat killer on the loose. What is your definition of normal stranger? You seem to be attaching a stigma to it, for some reason.

Parenting through adoption is certainly abnormal. That it, it is not very common and not the standard way of "having" children. Running with gas sucks...that's why I always poop before exercising. http://i.minus.com/ibs2b4mSJNkLGh.gif 
you're welcome Wow, for some reason this is giving me the image of a guy treating his dick like a plane, similar to how a mom treats a spoon with food like an airplane to get her kid to eat.

"Vroooooom!  Open up, I'm coming in for a landing!" I thought this was going to be a Serial reference. You 're not alone OP, I also do it as well. 
Time ago I had a friend who freaked out when he saw me doing it, like 'wtf man what are u doing you sinner!!??' how was the name "fartpowers" not already taken? I don't understand what you're asking me. OP could be a gay guy and the story would still work. But I read it the same way as you, based on the tone. Rimmel Londen Stay Matte Primer Was hoping for "shit pants" somewhere.  *claps slowly* Thankfully no, though I may or may not have had to send correspondence to him at some point. What a *cat*-astrophe. That's just ob*noxious*. Think of it this way, you'll be less intimidating and easier to approach when your hot neighbor asks you out, that is of course, unless your super powered jet farts make him feel inferior as a man. I guess so! But the unlucky coincidence of her going to be my neighbour makes it bit awkward! He's asking if it was (M)ulroney or (T)urner or (Trudeau...this one would be better than Turner) I felt pretty bad about it. I should have asked for further clarification about which meeting he was looking for. If everyone is normal, that kind of destroys the meaning of the word

What exactly do you consider abnormal? One of the rules in dating that I've always stood behind (or slightly in front of) is the fart test. If you fart and the person laughs then that person has obviously passed with flying, if slightly stinky, colors! Ah, T. That might be the worst possible time to ask You could have saved the day by asking what African nation they are stealing the baby from. The only solution is to keep him drinking and hope he gets a complete blackout, hopefully forgetting that he told you. Then you can at least act surprised. That's going to make my daughter's 18th rewatching a little easier to take.  Well Trudeau is deaders so it wouldn't be him :) You manned up....good for you HS is a load of BS. Get through it because once you get into college YOU CHOOSE YOUR MAJOR (interest) after the first two years of just bland stuff (reccomend going to community college) you can start focusing on stuff that really interest you. If you do not want to go to college, finish HS and get your diploma and really think hard "what do i want to do in life". I was exactly like that, i didnt study, i didnt do homework, i just skated by with 70s.. Once college came i did a complete 180 because it is completely different than HS.. you can go to a trade school and learn HVAC, become an electrician or plumber, auto tech.. There are so many options for you once you leave HS. But unfortunately HS is the building block to your future.  If you want to be able to not work until you die and enjoy your life, i would highly recommend getting through HS and then taking it from there. Not only will you feel better, your parents and loved ones will support you so much more on your future endeavors. It also shows a side of maturity which will go a long way. And just remember your work has just begun. But HS work/assignments are so much more different than real life work/assignments.  GL to you. I wish you the best of luck, and if you do plan on living a decent life getting the diploma makes it so much easier. Also if you want spend some time on something you are interested in (become and entrepreneur) and try to find something you do really well and make money off of it! Remember as long as you tried to your 100% capabilities you should be happy and satisfied. Actually, the same thing happened to me and helped me to finally get over her. She told me my confession was completely unexpected, but she didn't want to get back together. Hard to hear, of course, but it helped me realize it's over. What are you talking about? Girls don't fart Damn Girl!  If there is one thing I have learned in this lifetime is that you NEVER mention a baby bump. Whether a girl is two weeks or two months pregnant. Hell, you don't even mention it if you happen to see her giving birth.

Never. Your comment seems heated. Please don't feel too offended by this. Adoption is normal, as is adoptive parenting. It's a time-honored Practice, since even biblical tiimes. Baby in the  bulrushes, anyone? 

That said, one sense of abnormal is "away from the norm" and although I don't have statistics at my fingertips, the norm does seem for parents to, ahem, make their children in-house.  So in that narrowly  literal and technical  sense, you can be abnormal. 

My cousin was adopted from another country before I was born , and now he's a paramedic. I don't think of him as abnormal. But if he ever asked me in a nonserious context, I'd jokingly tell him hell yes, and hide behind the technical definition. 

If you have a chip on your shoulder, parenting is going to be even tougher on you. Your child doesn't deserve that. Be protective, by all means, but don't get your temper up every time an internet comment points out (at your prompting ) that your family's a little different. Accepting and embracing it will show your kid that it's not negative at all! 

If you're just venting, you know this already.

Cheers,

HLM
 They aren't "having a baby" though.  They are adopting a baby.  I can see why it would be a shock to get the call, but it doesn't make sense to phrase it as "we are having a baby" when you are adopting a baby.

 Awesome! Awesome story :) You seem like a good guy. AND FUCK BOMBADIER! If zombie Trudeau walked into the office this morning then I'd imagine that I'd be having a very different (albeit exciting and terrifying) day. That's the problem...I didn't apologize, I just walked awkwardly out at the next stop like nothing ever happened. Yea I considered that but only after I was writing the comment. That was my attitude.. "why do i need to know this, i am not going to use it for the future." Honestly you do not know what the future holds for you but you can control it by the actions you do now.  I know you can do it, just put the pedal to the metal and do it! You are capable of anything you set your mind to. Never, ever comment on a woman's baby bump until she's about to pop... even then; tread lightly. Oh, I walked out awkwardly, not saying a word! xD Sounds like your boss wants to bang.   AND MOST OF ALL, FUCK FOKKER! So thats how Jenny met Zack Yeah but now you'll always have this shitty story to tell your kids. Wait, what? Lol! Where did I say finish her? XD I put cereal in a bowl and have a glass of milk on the side, that way you don't get any soggy cereal. Air Force uses AFSC - Air Force Specialty Code. Usually something like 3D0XX, with the X's being replaced with numbers.  But then I won't be different.


Source: Reddit. 91 proof cinnamon whiskey Come on OP. You're a woman. You never comment on how pregnant a woman is until after confirming she's at least 5+ months pregnant. Well then don't worry about it. People will just automatically assume that you're an asshole yank. That's kind of adorkable! Love it. But sorry you got embarrassed. Everybody farts! I'm a guy...I think I'm a little fucked should she report it. I can see it now: "Mounties arrest Canadian boys on charges of not apologizing for beating Asian college student senseless!" Lol I guess so!  Dude here. 

Lol. I was wondering the same! That username is gold! Apparently, always though was maybe Hawaiian but nope, more Asian than white rice. What a fucking lethal combination of dirty thai ocean water, dirty catfish, dirty stripper and booze If he brings it up, just tell him it was a queef. 

Men love vaginas and everything about them. Trust me. Your brake like lights come in before you actually start braking. I hope so, a girl that farts? gross!! perfect game for you ;)  
[Don't Whiz on the Electric Fence](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_wW6rENTfaU)

Edit: damn it! didn't see Wot_Gorilla_2112's comment Yeah that would land you some of action "I thought that you are assholes to each other all the time. But now I know this is not the case. You are just assholes."

FTFY "TIL what an acronym means"

FTFY. No he inferred.  (also this was just a Simpson's reference)  That's what people are saying on the news? Completely irrelevant to your eloquent and understanding comment (which I did appreciate and enjoy reading), but the way you signed it definitely made me smile. Thank you for making me smile.  &gt;plus if you ever happen to date him then you dont have to hold them in

Haha false! I would definitely find OP's story hilarious and wouldn't mind, but I wouldn't want her busting those out around me anytime she felt like it - at least not at the beginning of the relationship doesn't matter, had sex What gets me is that you say you didn't apologize to the girl, but you still felt the need to apologize that you wrote it on your phone... Today I fricked up.

I'll never read these the same again Probably not, but worth a try.  lol it's more common than you think mate and the source of a lot of fun. Some people enjoy not being able to be bothered or like random events. LOL I didn't have one for years until my business took off =/ which sucks because now I can't ignore the world but at least I can still ignore all those aps.  Ha! That episode was on just a few days ago. Grampa Simpson says it :) That was unfortunate, but sure she forgot about it soon after I don't think you read the post correctly. It sounds like OP was more interested in the old lady. And so did everyone else... I can't fucking stop laughing! To much. To much.  Sounds like the plot to Shawshank Redemption Fretting that the proposal won't meet your expectations?

This isn't the ending of Inception or Series 3 of House of cards.

If he's not enough without some fancy tweetable proposal then don't say yes.

If you think marriage is about how cool the proposal is, what the dress looks like or what kind of ceremony you have then wait another few years.
 We were sitting outside, they were "randomly" patroling this suburbian area and felt the smell of weed. That was their story anyway.  8/10, 10/10 with rice. Boeoeoeing /r/gonewild has gotten very good at this. [TUFU by posting to Reddit (who is known to love cats) that you killed one and murdered another. We will find you.](http://mrwgifs.com/wp-content/uploads/2013/07/I-Will-Find-You-And-I-Will-Kill-You-Liam-Neeson-In-Taken.gif)
 That's no way to talk to a lady That's crazy, dude. 


Glad he didn't get mad at you guys! ^^ This A nice warm cup of clamotto juice.

*gulp*

*gulp*

 That is essentially what I did with my wife. Didn't toss it. But handed it to her. Sounds like a lot of butthurt over there.  

Not our fault that you jackals let Hitler grab so much power before we finally convinced the Democrats into letting us kick some Axis Power ass.  And yes, being chased out of Europe because we were poor and ethnic minorities, we did choose to go to America, and prosper, and then come back and save your asses.  

So, you know, you're welcome. (Another Joke)

Anyway, I feel badly for Europe, your best days are behind you and you have to live with the fact that you've caused most of the world's problems (even if you wanted to blame it all on America, YOU CREATED US!!!).  Sorry, not that sorry.   Even gay guys would know that all men love a good fart joke. The only way this is embarrassing in the least is if the OP is female.  &gt;We go to the busy Viaduct where there's a pop up installation, in mini "rooms" set outside. 

What the hell does this even mean?

I know what a viaduct is (no idea why it's capitalized, here), but the rest makes no sense whatsoever. Of course we all do, she just wrote about doing it! ^smh Girls fart.  I have a wife and a daughter and I know they fart.  It smells like hot dogs. Plot twist: OP is on pay as you go As an asian from Hawaii, I approve of this statement. I have adopted siblings and am planning to adopt so I get the whole adoption thing.

Chill out. He meant that normally, when someone says they are having a son or daughter, they just came from the doctor. And adoption is not the normal way to have a kid. Neither is surrogacy, sperm donation, or anything other than sex then baby. Normal doesn't always mean good, abnormal doesn't always mean bad. It's normal for gay teens to experience depression, but it is certainly not a good thing. It is abnormal for you to find a 20 on the ground, but it's not a bad thing. Chill out. Oh my there is no good time to mention a baby bump. And my axe &gt;silly and humorous

I don't know, he could have been grossed out. Some people are grossed out by farts (not this guy, just sayin') It happens.  At least not until you've broken the barrier.
http://youtu.be/Jkmw9oGIDhI Two much. Well... [I'll try](http://i.imgur.com/RQVCWwK.gif), but I am not sure how that is going to work. I've read a version of this same story a long time ago.   No, no... He was talking about apologizing for writing the post on your phone. Still don't. Maybe she was just storing one in there temporarily. Cool story bro &gt;Girls fart. I have a wife and a daughter and I know they fart. It smells like ~~hot dogs~~ candy and unicorns.

ftfy he's more lucky the guy didn't kick his ass I'm in for eight. Turk is hilarious Me too, I heard a stand-up comic telling this exact story about three years ago /r/ttotm  Update us if the hot guy has a fart fetish. To be fair, I don't like cats either. Well that's not good. Veronica and I trying this new fad called uh, jogging. I believe it's jogging or yogging. it might be a soft j. I'm not sure but apparently you just run for an extended period of time. It's supposed to be wild. He paid the PI the TREE FIDDY and his wife kept on fucking zach. Must admit; thought OP was gay guy. Thanks heteronormativity/Obama! 
But seriously, sounds like the hot guy would have a gas with you.  The 'sexist' bit is just the usual politically-correct victimology bullshit, but the rest is spot-on.

How could you look yourself in the mirror, knowing that you hadn't earned the grade?

I guess honor, integrity and self-respect aren't relevant to today's students.  I pity you. Fun Fact:  Acronyms are abbreviations that can be pronounced as their own words, e.g. AIDS, GIF(whether you pronounce it with a hard or soft G), SCUBA.  If the abbreviation is not pronounceable as a word, it's called an initialism, e.g. FBI, NBC, FTFY. Does he have the ideal package?

Sorry, I couldn't help myself! i had to read this comment to figure that out. Alright boys, he lives in England. GET HIM! Fully expected this to be about Halo oh my... Interesting. Thanks for the info! Army mos' are the only one I know. Ours is similar but the last 2 numbers change based on rank. 11b1o for example is infantry lower enlisted. 11b2p is e-5 infantry team leader. The 2 being skill level (E5) and the P being the identifier for team leader.  This can't have enough upvotes! &gt; Come on OP. You're a ~~woman~~ human. You never comment on how pregnant a woman is ~~until after confirming she's at least 5+ months pregnant~~ unless you absofuckinglutely know for sure she's pregnant.

FTFY I had my CCW on me, I'm truly glad he didn't do anything and the police got to deal with it. But seriously guys, he'll probably die

RIP Thank you for not pretending that my HLM is merely a baby bump!
 Lol, I think you will be fine, it's not like you did it on purpose.  Too two much? The "chocolate hardening in his pouches" is a very unlikely scenario, it probably was just theobromine poisoning. That still means you killed the hamster. I know one of my clients is expecting (im a dog trainer and she's like 4-5 months along AND she just bought new infant stuff) and it bugs me that I can't ask when she's due. Fuck.  You went Jackie Chan on Jackie Chan on the tram. Ok, thanks for the heads up! I'm a pretty thorough instruction reader, but I would also definitely panic if I thought it was stuck. Well since someone else was already nice to you, I don't have to be: you're a psycho bitch. I'm sorry for your kid, they got unlucky twice. Propose to him instead Nope, I just wanted to say that taking away the dog just wont help enough. You have to change the people or at least report them to the police. When they just buy another dog (what shouldn't be a problem) - you have to "steal" this dog too - and every other dog after it.

I personally think that it was a good action, but sometimes this isn't enough...  Went back last night, but she wasn't working.  Heading back on Saturday. [Louis Approves](http://i.imgur.com/VG5QEUl.jpg) How did I and II die? AND YOUR MOTHER...FOKKER. That's EXACTLY what I was thinking! Is this old lady Usain Bolt in disguise? Farting is normal. Who cares.  Fuck off, shitdick. Wow... How fucking metal... Getting called into the bosses office at work for slaying too much pussy. That's fuckin' hilarious. I thought I was the only one thinking this He looked to be around 70 so I don't think there would be any fucking and from what I have heard she was in her 60's. Surely it's a win if the taxi fare was worth more than the phone... &gt;I quickly (read: jet powered) fled to our front yard and around the side gate to escape.

FTFY Why You hold Your farts when You are with Your sis?
She is Your sis just do what You have to do... :D Someone walking was only 10 foot behind you when you were jogging?  How can hills be real if our eyes aren't Well I have to be more than halfway to menopause by now, so let's hope not! lol OOOOOHHHHHHHHH YEEEEEEEEEAH

Don't forget a condom like the virgin did "I thought about her twice today before even writing this, that's how much I don't like her."

You definitely want her, probably angry and ITB. Oh god yes Yeah, shouldn't they have just jogged by them. Good news, at least one of her roommates has a good sense of humor and is on reddit.  Target aquired. What about me? https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lQlIhraqL7o It only hurts the first time. The second time is like your balls are in a bed in Riverdale. So mind blowing organs are a girl's best friend? I can't pick those up at WalMart for $100.  Nah, it's sterile. Sounds like the opening scenes to the first episode of each season of Archer. 

They can really take notes from this one for the next season. &gt; Everyone ~~on reddit~~ in the world is male until proven female.

FTFY. Sad state of affairs. That's definitely a hare-y situation. Not to mention he didn't tell you how or when. Lots of girls have pretty good intuition so the proposing part shouldn't be that much of a surprise. You should be happy. The anticipation is still there.  I like to do it the "wrong way round" too, especially with I have rice crispies because if they go under they get instantly soggy. I just keep the box of cereal on the table and add it in two or three goes. Crunchy! I don't understand why EVERYone who makes comments like that doesn't say what gender they are. It's the 3rd time this month where I thought the person was male and said "hot guy". Not that there's anything wrong with that, but we're like ??? Honestly, I'm usually still suspicious. Plot twist: hot neighbor is a redditor. Clearly, it's just a sympathy pot-belly. What is this ftfy business! Seen it a bunch but can't figure it out Don't forget to bring a towel... Report them for the condition of the animal.  The good guys can at least keep an eye on them then. We need more positive and clearheaded responses on the internet. This person was being defensive, which anyone can relate to, but the important distinction here is exactly what you drew attention to, that she prompted the offense.

I realize that when the karma tide turns, everyone wants to weigh in, and I guess I'm adding to the weight on Pelagine. But I understand that the typical person today is under a lot of stress, and this can lead to bad attitudes and abrasive comments. Keep doing what you're doing HLM. Keep giving people perspective. :) That laugh sounds very fake  Fixed that for you Fixed that for you Fixed this for you. Totally thought the same thing. Nice job on the Seinfeld reference! If I had gold I'd give you some =)  Forgot To Fart Yesterday "Fixed that for you" Fixed that for you Only if unicorns smell like shitty hotdogs 0/10 didn't even shit yourself, scrub. Thank you for the pun Sir  You've just given her a preview of what's about to be her everyday life at the office. Jesus, can we have a "dead cat" tag? I can't take two of these in one morning T_T Don't worry! If he's awesome, and REALLY in love with you, he'll come up with something else, and still surprise you!! m'lady I found a dog wandering out on the road, I kept it. It had lived somewhere before, it shows anxiety problems and stuff like it used to have an abusive owner. I've had the dog for six years now and moved out of the area I found her in, so she's mine for good. I don't care if she was someone else's, she was abused and underfed. Get over yourself you know what I meant Yeah, you don't have to be nice. Apparently that's the standard these days when you're online.

Or, you can stop spreading the damn bad attitudes. Yours was definitely funnier though! Hahaha That backpedal.

You went from crying to acting apathetic as I keep calling you on it. I meant apathy from the get go, you loser. Because the person typing takes it for granted that they are the gender they are. Pilot to bombardier
Pilot to bombardier

Bombs are ready buddy! Life Pro tip. Girls hold farts for when they realize that you've recently farted, and they cover up the sound by simultaneously laughing at your fart and / or sounding annoyed and accusing you. Glad you liked. And if you were born a female and still are, I'd give you some. exactly lol...op's story doesnt add up! you bring much shame on her famereee. Wong place, wong time.  &gt;the place was covered in my diarrhea, puke, piss and blood.

I was half expecting "So what do you call this act?"
"The Aristocrats!" Is this you? http://i.imgur.com/X1sJyQv.jpg He might have been grossed out, but if he doesn't like you specifically because of that one incident he's not really worth the time in the first place.



That one hot guy isn't really the *only* hot guy around. I'd say it was still a good line. But her response was not good.  

Should have followed up with "so how much for a half and half?" Wow that is really fucked up, God dude I would have started crying if I found out I just killed some lady's cat. Never. Still not sure if this is about a Vibrator.  FirebertNY 4 points 5 minutes ago 

Forgot To Fart Yesterday

    permalink
    parent

[]Fluffymufinz 3 points 6 minutes ago 

Fixed that for you

    permalink
    parent

[]Pappo66 1 point 5 minutes ago 

Fixed that for you

    permalink
    parent

[]Osiato 1 point 5 minutes ago 

Fixed this for you.

    permalink
    parent

[]BlackRockKitty 1 point 5 minutes ago 

"Fixed that for you"

    permalink
    parent

[]lukeyj15 1 point 5 minutes ago 

Fixed that for you

    permalink
    parent &gt;There was a conversation and a lack of sex for the night, *things* eventually *blew* over.

I see what you did there. How the HELL is this a fuckup?

OP, get ready for when you get back home.

;) In context of this story, it's   
Fuckin' Turbo Farts, Yo! It's naaaht a tumor. I'll tag you in the arm. Twice. No tag backs. [Rule #29:](http://i0.kym-cdn.com/photos/images/newsfeed/000/030/662/rules.jpg.jpg) In the internet all girls are men and all kids are undercover FBI agents Become an actor or something. No way in hell can I ever cry on command. I can't laugh on command, do a proper imitation of someone on command. Everything is involuntary. And it's always written all over my goddamn face. That's why I do my break-ups over the phone. Whether i'm the dumper or suspect I'm about to be dumped, I don't want to do that stuff in public. Public crying is the worst, uncomfortable for everyone involved. Thanks for the 2 cents. I know that. I didn't ask why. Just saying nowadays YOU NEVER KNOW. Do you not understand humor? Ahh the good ole gas powered running. I refer to mine as NO2. Now if anyone can help me out with "TLDR" I'll be forever grateful. I haven't figured that out yet lol.  TL; DR:  The rabbit didn't die. Hey, it simply means: Fixed That For You B+ OP committed the *purr*-fect murder HAHAHAHA. I died. 
I assure you tis not. :)  .. And kids, that's how I met your mother.  Agreed. It's the marriage you'll actually have to live through and deal with, not the proposal or the wedding.  &gt;I have seen FTFY used quite a bit so for some reason I determined that this meant Fuck Them and Fuck You.

I think this says more about you than it does about Reddit . . . Hgweyy. At least in Wales. I find it exceedingly unlikely that you have in any way destroyed any chances with him.  Frankly, you can use it to demonstrate you have a sense of humor, which most guys like. Man, I wish I could see someone's boobs jiggling around right now. Well played good sir... I tip my hat to you I love soggy cereal.  Growing up I would pour a large bowl of frosted flakes or golden grahams and let them soak for 7 minutes.   Actually, it's just the opposite. Everyone is female until proven male.

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=z1Kdoja3hlk Was expecting that he confessed he cheated or something. This was a nice relief. Sometimes this sub drains the soul.  Its period-pics in case you don't wanna regret clicking it. &gt; as a man, it wouldn't bother me

But, are you a ridiculously hot man? If the whole conversation was:

Her: Do you want to go to the movies?
You: No.

Then I highly doubt she even remembers since it was 4 years ago. She probably read your message, said wtf is this, and deleted it. Too Long, Didn't Read Me too. Me too. I don't get it, you were jogging (usually faster than walking) but failed to notice the person walking with an older woman only 10 feet behind you?  Like, did you not just pass them? Idk. First time in my life is happened.  My gf hates any and all fart jokes. But you. You're a keeper.  Think I just went here in h,awaii.  I only had the level 5 spicy.  I love spicy food, and this had me sweatin balls! But soooooooo good! Today in Thing's that didn't Happen. Scientifically, yes. :) he hasn't ruined it yet! my wife knew i was going to soon but she was still  surprised dude, sell them for weed &gt;I don't understand **why** EVERYone who makes comments like that

...

&gt;I didn't ask why.


??? Yeah, they could be moobs or some fat guy's armpit again. Reverse image search is your friend. Too long;didn't read TL;DR = Too Long; Didn't Read  Still a better ending than HIMYM Time to wipe it all up. "The only good cat---is a *dead* cat!" -OP- My and my girlfriend both still shave because we like looking our best for each other... Try holding water in you hand. Same concept. No matter what you do it leaks everywhere. Fuck That Fuck You! Can confirm, am unicorn &gt;After a few minutes I *flash* the driver to let him know he should move, in response he *flashes* me for a long period of time, not a good move. 

So, you're saying that drivers in the UK communicate by quickly baring their privates at one another? A few years ago it was known that my coworker's wife was pregnant, although there was not an official announcement made.  Another coworker comes up as about 6 of us are standing in a group.  He begins to clap and says, "I'd just like to let everyone know that (coworker) and wife are going to be having a baby" in a tone of voice that was gleefully proud that the opportunity to let all of us know was his.

Expecting dad looks down and says, "actually she had a miscarriage about two weeks ago".  

That was definitely an awkward moment, and knowing that I just witnessed such a cliche occurrence - it was really hard to contain my laughter as morbid as that sounds (was mainly thinking what a damn idiot this guy was). Ranch dressing makes you fart? Man, my husband rips some gnarly farts from time to time. If he gets to butt trumpet around me, GD it, I'm gonna have me some ranch dressing. damn- sorry to hear it man- rest easy, not like it was on purpose. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OWovwcDSsk8 You do have a way with words. You DID say you don't understand why.
 There doesn't exist a cat in the universe that wouldn't have stirred from it's sleep and bolted the fuck outta there with a goddamn lorry right by it, nevermind some stranger wielding a shovel.

And that's why this TIFU is bullshit.

Source: Level 4 reddit detective. Experience until next level: 47813849/60000000 Because the author is ALWAYS the victim of gender bias, while the audience is always the perpetrator. Whenever something funny is occurring, or being narrated, the audience automatically visualizes the comedy-giving character as male. This is a reinforced stigma that probably derives, at least in part, from the fact that most stand-up comics are (more like were, but still applies) men, and that most main roles in comedies are male roles, and that most main characters in funny TV shows (cartoon or otherwise) are male.

Anybody else see the problem arising here? Well damn.  Yeah, there oughta be more hot people like me!  
  
Who am I kidding, I'm not hot! :( I'm too cool to be hot. Doesn't it strike you funny that you and your husband have to go out of your way to defend your short hair? Women are inherently sexy. He also has no ability to objectively judge your sexiness. He is biased. He's supposed to be biased. It is also funny he said your short hair is sexy, not sexier. Ask him point blank if your short hair is SEXIER than your longer hair. Then watch as he attempts to bold face lie to you so he doesn't hurt your feelings.

I never claim to know the desires of every man. What I do know is what I've read and researched about biology. When dealing with attraction and reproduction there are many generalizations that occur. Something that is generally true doesn't make it absolutely true for everyone. That would be asburd. There are all kinds of outliers for statistics. 

You have made a claim I am wrong and stupid, yet provided no evidence of me being incorrect. Or is your own anecdotal evidence from your SO all you need? There are numerous papers written about what makes one sex attracted to another. Just because you don't agree with biology doesn't make it stupid. Women are inherently attracted to taller men. Does that mean it's stupid? 

Women are also inherently attracted to men that can provide and protect. A woman needs to ensure her offspring will be able to eat and be taken care of. Oh and look an article that describes women do find certain facial beards more attractive than others based on their perception of his ability to provide:

http://blogs.discovermagazine.com/seriouslyscience/2013/08/29/facial-hair-scientifically-proven-sexy/#.VMpXDi6OUn4

The scientific paper if you are able to comprehend it: http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1090513813000226

Oh dang.. another articlee based on studies done a while ago. Studies that keep confirming the same thing: http://www.pajiba.com/seriously_random_lists/chicks-dig-beards-science-dont-lie.php

But who knows right? I mean you have a long list of scientific papers backing up your claims. You must just be holding on to them because you don't have to justify your ignorance. 

Oh look another handful of articles demonstrating men find longer hair more attractive. Here is an excerpt:

"However, this preference for long hair goes beyond social or cultural expectations for women's beauty. Research has demonstrated that there is an evolutionary reason for men to prefer long hair to short hair on women. According to evolutionary theory, features considered attractive by the opposite sex serve as indicators of reproductive fitness."

http://www.hairfinder.com/tips/men_prefer_long_hair.htm

All these articles are written using scientific papers as their source. Please enlighten me with your research.

It doesn't matter if you don't agree with it. These are the facts as we know it today. Perhaps next week we will learn more about what makes humans tick. 


Edit: I love how when presented with undeniable truth some Redditors still cling on to their ignorance. I have provided plenty of truth surrounding this. Yet, the down votes still happen.  I have said nothing offensive nor incorrect. What is really offensive is the complete and utter willingness to accept ignorance as being correct or right. I feel that I am arguing with someone that believes the Earth is only 5000 years old. Then I provide evidence that says it's much older than that. Then their reply is.. nuh uh you're stupid. That's stupid. The earth is only 5000 years old and you're stupid.

Grow up and enlighten yourself. Most shit US beer isn't even technically US beer anymore. Bud is owned by InBev, which isn't a US company, and Coors is owned by a joint US/Canadian company. [Most everything else](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/AB_InBev_brands) that you think of as shit US beer falls under InBev as well. I know exactly what you mean! I see it all the time and it infuriates me. I try to take into account the will of others most of the time, when I'm dealing with the random people I encounter. It seems like very rarely people care about anything but themselves, though. Is there a way I can affect real change in people and how they treat others? Or maybe there's something you can do, King.  If your voice is forever shot, there's still plenty you can do in the music biz. Write songs for pitch cds, audio engineering, session musician (if you play an instrument)/join a band. Damn, you caught me!  Literally. Oh god...that one is really white and uhh.....viscous? Hahaha similarly textured? Are you saying they were jogging at a speed only Usain Bolt could match?  *Blinks out of existence* http://imgur.com/CfuwwAD Dude the ping pong shows are insane!!  Not exactly relevant, is it. OP didn't ask if the woman was pregnant. OP thought the woman said she was pregnant. She needs to get blackout drunk Sri she doesn't remember.  I want to upvote you but your comment has 69 points.  I can't break that Well, one of the joggers in question was jet powered....so yes. Yes I am. Still, you did get a bottle of Buckfast. It's their first time, be gentle now.... Am I missing something? This really doesn't seem front page worthy compared to other TIFU posts Rekt I clicked this expecting a drunk driving type story. GLAD that I didn't see that Or maybe the audience is male and self identifies Someone did OP is a bundle of sticks. Hate the amount of fake stories on here. Think I am just going to have to unsubscribe. 

[Here is a version. Can't find an original source on it.](https://books.google.co.uk/books?id=NpzZi5SPCcgC&amp;pg=PA41&amp;lpg=PA41&amp;dq=lorry+running+over+a+cat+and+then+killing+a+sleeping+cat&amp;source=bl&amp;ots=iwwQNIKtdm&amp;sig=FY-YYq8MoFLukcMm8rATeL0ZgO8&amp;hl=en&amp;sa=X&amp;ei=zVrKVJfXJoSrU9iIg_AL&amp;ved=0CFEQ6AEwCA#v=onepage&amp;q=lorry%20running%20over%20a%20cat%20and%20then%20killing%20a%20sleeping%20cat&amp;f=false) Hey if you're gonna be rude this conversation is over. Period. Ah but I know drunk words are true words so she got that happening Are you sure you're not just icy hot? step 1: google
step 2: fixed that for you Don't worry. I am German, I have heard of the Internet, used it and couldn't care less about such a comment. I'd laugh about it. Terribly Long Dick Rampage  too long; didn't read 0/10 I don't even put milk on my cereal, I just eat it dry. I'm not sure why I always thought that was normal growing up with all the ads, it just seemed like a gimmick for coco pops turning milk chocolaty if you were weird and tried milk with them.

Only found out when I got older and people at university gave me weird looks when strolling through the kitchen eating a mini box of cornflakes like a packet of crisps $5 at a time Fart powered, actually - a force much more powerful than a jet.     What have I done?! 

You, my friend have written the introduction to a generic brother/sister fetish porno.
 You have to kick him out or make set rules. Say if he doesn't follow these rules he can't stay I.e. No smoking, getting a real job, paying rent ect. Exactly. My ex was always horny and loved sex on it for that reason alone. Takes away all the cramps. And you know, sex. Yes, I question this as well, and if they passed the walkers, they would have seen them.

 he's done.  /r/TodayIBullshitted  Bruh, this is TIFU not /r/incest There's a reason your comment karma is -100 Some guy did this on /r/gonewildcurvy. He's been posting pictures of an obese guys chest and getting PMs left and right

Edit: [here it is]( http://m.imgur.com/a/naHML) A mountie in MTL metro? Kick him out and change the locks.  If he comes back call the cops. Fish and guests.... There's a reason yo dick is -100 inches sucka  The first time I ever shaved was in winter and my god that was a mistake. I didn't do it very well so I got razor burn, meaning I acutely felt every time I got goosebumps. Alternative interpretations have a low bar of having to be only plausible. I am sure there's at least one gay guy out there who would find this situation embarrassing, special snowflakes that we all are. /r/fuckyounigga That is the best way I remember to describe the bogus video of that woman walking in NY. thatsthejoke.jpg Nobody who is adopting should say "we are having/going to have", the word "have" in this case is misleading as it usually refers to the act of giving birth.

Nobody's fault but your professor's.  I was flying a couple weeks ago, and tower asked me to report traffic in sight and I got to say "got the little Fokker in sight." I couldn't stop laughing.  https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=aqyBtK9jkD8 [thatsthejoke.jpg](http://i.imgur.com/tEjeMu8.jpg)  


---
^(*Feedback welcome at /r/image_linker_bot*)
 Thanks for the last comment. Yep, venting. You can see my edit, if you want.  NO. Different circumstances. We are online. On reddit. With only usernames. 9 times out of 10, we cannot deduct the person's gender. Good story.  How exactly are walkers unnoticed behind joggers without the joggers just having run by the walkers?   I assumed OP was male and that this was going to end in accidental sex.

In retrospect, shitting himself would have made way more sense. Heh, girl scout for 12 years. Or a hairless ass with a bra over it. It was rhetorical. Sorry. I forgot to type that. I am VERY tired, but can't sleep. Exactly, fucking is dangerous at that age. What if you fall and can't get up? /r/nocontext  I seriously wish this was top comment. Nooo, AINT us! It was rhetorical. Sorry. I forgot to type that. I am VERY tired, but can't sleep. Maybe it's a gay dude? Imo, you're making the right decision to get him out.

If he has a history of drug abuse that has been unaddressed he needs rehab.  Anything you provide for him outside of a firm stipulation on getting help or changing will only enable him to continue this unhealthy lifestyle. The same is true for his laziness and lack of respect for your property. Pussy farts. coca cola asking the important questions! thanks.jpg  /u/image_linker_bot It has now hit the news and apparently he shot her once in the head. TIFU by almost shitting my pants in front of a hot guy.  I follow two rules when negotiating the pregnancy gambit: 

1. Even if you are sure they are pregnant, don't say anything until they tell you. 
2. always say you didn't notice because it wasn't showing, tell them that they look great. 

p.s. If all else fails, mention other tells which can be passed off as mistakes such as stomach touching and a larger bosom. &gt;I just ruined one of the biggest days of my life. 

If you already are heading in that direction all you ruined was a surprise of if he would ask, and if he's the love of your life, "if" shouldn't have been a question and you two would be on the same page (and you are, it seems). Being asked to do something you're going to do anyway isn't really the biggest day of your life, aim higher. More degrees, first/dream jobs, milestone anniversaries, kids, first x/y/z things together, buying a house, first grandkid, etc. Proposal? Not really a big deal. Sure some people care about the story when youre newlyweds but does anyone ever even remember the date they got engaged? 

Enjoy your life together, if his drunk mode is honesty (and such cute honesty) I think you will be okay.  I had a similar incident in the Philippines while on leave.  A friend and I met up with some Aussie sailors in Subic Bay and proceeded to get drunk out of our minds.  During the drunken debauchery, we decided that eating some chicken from a street vendor was a good idea.  Even though I was warned not to do this, my drunken brain pushed aside any thoughts of bacteria infested meat.  The next day, while nursing a horrible hangover, my distended bowels let loose a torrent of hellfire that lasted for 2 days.  Luckily, I was able to drink a lot of Gatorade to keep my fluid levels up, and made it back to the base on Okinawa for medical help.      i just assume the writer is always homosexual. that solves all my issues. writter is still a guy Welcome to /r/TrollList. We hope you enjoy your stay. Shit and run I think that just made it worse. She doesn't have to worry about that anymore, news say he shot her in the head. Just gonna say that's not really a fuck up. If the "hot guy" found your farting gross, he's lame and not worth it. If he found it funny, as he should, then it's a win-win. People (men &amp; women) who think that women should be these pristine flawless creatures bore me. Be human.
 You really should mention IN THE STaRTING OF A TIFU if you're a girl or not..........makes the whole thing confusing You sir are quite the frood Too Long, Didn't Read My upvotes? Is this possible? Splendid!  '...like a warm tomato pie...' This guy gets it as well ^
 I pronounce it Fit fie so FU You just got rekt. No excuses. As a psyc major its definitely most likely this Better than Uiuc's Red Lion Poop Girl. I'm sure it's pretty self exclamatory There are dozens of us! Hey i know me personally i do not mind a girl who cuts one especially if its in a way for humor like that just don't dutch oven me and we would be fine. He may feel the same just got talk to him about it :D (shrug) I stopped trying to figure it out some time ago, but every now and then I'm like ??? Is this a dude? A gal? Just trying to get some ?context?. That's no TIFU, merely a TIF : Today I farted. Cereal milk is the best!!  Valar flatuleris. My wife got asked this all time, during and after 3 pregnancies

It can be mildly vexing, but believe me, many women are fully capable of getting over it Yes, very similar to that one, except mine is entirely metal.

Of course it's safe, why wouldn't it be? Using a safety razor is very similar to using a cartridge razor, except you don't need to press down and you angle the head a little bit differently. 
 
 have class you nasty ass tramp. Men with class don't fart at women, why should women? This sounds like a scene from a cheesy but amusing romantic comedy. You will now run into him in a series of places, then it will be revealed that he recently had his heart broken, then the two of you will date. Then you'll have a rough patch, but get back together in the end. No, not with this combination at least. I can see how they'd seem somewhat lemony by themselves though.  I admire your willingness to admit your flawed priorities in such detail for the rest of us to benefit. Yours is a powerful story. I just pray -- while acknowledging chronic symptoms and debt -- you've found hope and peace, not only despite, but because of this experience. Thank you for sharing this. Sending heartfelt prayers your way. You brought this on yourself. You've shamed her family. Now you must take responsability and marry her! I'll just assume you're a kid who only uses slang/abbreviations. Get bent. No, just no. Why doesn't this have more upvotes? This is hilarious. No? Must be just me then. Haha, yeah I panicked. I tried pulling it out with needle nose pliers. I don't recommend that. Just remember to relax and release the suction. If they were jogging on a side walk, maybe they passed a hedge/an entrance/a high fence/a garage or something similar and mom &amp; son stepped on the side walk right after them.

[Somewhat like this.](http://i.imgur.com/zQ58PQv.jpg) Prof's language was unclear.. Don't beat yourself up over it It's weird that this bothers you so much. Have you ever asked yourself, truly and deeply, why this bothers you so much? Probably not, sorry lol Plot twist; OP is gay male. There are subreddits for that... oops

edit:whoever had the great idea to change the password wasn't as clever as he/she should have been It's more that ladies have to keep up the impression they only ever go to the bathroom to freshen up. Or he is gay You didn't fuck up, you did the right thing. TIDTRT.  I lost it at "Groots unshaved dick". Penis fart? Alright. Using slangs/abbreviations makes me a kid now apparently.  Lester Nygaard? I'm guessing it's more for when the woman isn't actually pregnant.  
I got asked once when I was 10... &gt; I'll just assume you're a kid who only **uses slang**/abbreviations. **Get bent.**

Checks out Yeah and sometimes you get it wrong when you go by the username.  Never forget. Absolutely no swearing. One guy got suspended for swearing. Tor Gar'th; dAreah ral'uk Whats sad is I thought the same thing and then even after reading the "incredibly hot guy" part I just assumed they were gay. you come off as the kind of guy that doesn't associate slavery with a race. My first thought Thank god More than that. 

Ridiculously hot *and sweaty* man.  Reddit. Where opinions different than the masses get downvoted. Silly opinions. No one is allowed to have those. ^^^unlessyouagree I bet your friends sure regret giving their pet to you. This wasn't an accident, just complete stupidity. Eat some sugar-free Haribo gummy bears to wash that shit out. Trust me, I'm a doctor.  You were jogging and they were walking 10ft behind you? Are you also blind when you clearly jogged right past them? lol @ frick OP eating cereal wrong his whole life leads me to believe he was raised by a pack of wolves. Seriously, were your parents playing a cruel joke on you? And if they were, bravo. OP, just a word of advice....lifting weights at the gym is VASTLY superior to just cardio. Cardio gives you a metabolism burn while you're running, and for maybe a few hours after. Lifting weights gives you the burn during, and up to 48hrs after (because your body will be using energy to repair muscles). That, and muscle burns more calories than fat, so you'll have a greater base metabolic rate. 

My wife went with me to the gym for a year and jogged on the treadmill for about 45min, 5 days a week. She lost almost nothing.she finally let me build her a weight training program. In 8 weeks she lost 4 pant sizes.  Why don't you surprise him and propose first. Let the storm rage on...


I know I've left a queef behind, but I'm to relieved to grieve! (From the full version) Do not follow this advice. If the cops arrest anyone, it will be OP. [thanks.jpg](http://www.ooooiiii.com)
------------
Feedback welcome at /r/xdyouboughtit I can't really say since I'm a girl as well, but I feel like a legitimately cool guy would find that hilarious and the confidence admirable. Just embrace that shit, girl. You're fucking jet powered. I've gotten up before them and ate before them my whole life if it takes 3 years and him being drunk to propose to you. maybe you should find someone who cares about you!  If a Muslim told a white person he was excited to have slaves, would that also be racism? Shall you ever attempt the legendary power slide again? Ah right, thanks for the clarification! I've lost count of the number of times that I've read something in a dictionary that turned out to be totally wrong when I asked a native speaker... [boobs jiggling](http://regretfulmorning.com/2011/12/15-epic-jiggling-boobs-in-gif-format/)

 I worked at a coffee shop in a busy little area, always kill them with kindness as the police tend to frown when you poison people's cappuccinos.  check the news XD And if he specifically mentioned it, it'd be too specific and you'd be suspicious. There's no pleasing us, number-based user ID's.  that's when you say "oh, i guess you're just a little fat then" and poke her in the belly. you don't need to feel her embarrassment for her. that's her job. 

 Except for your spelling issue.  So it looks like OP read the tale of the [misunderstood Minotaur.](http://imgur.com/gallery/sKWlR).. Ditto As someone in a similar situation, just not quite as drastic in some ways, KICK HIM OUT BEFORE IT IS TOO LATE. http://redd.it/2u1qeq Why would it? Some of the times she was 3-4 months past a pregnancy..

I guess I just see some minor awkwardness here being treated like a _landmine_ Everybody is rooting for youuuuu The coffee shop I work in is in a hospital building, a bit of cheeky cross-contamination and I'd get off scot free. Fricken Frack! propose to him! :D The internet!  Where the men are men and the women are men too. If that hot guy had any sense of humor at all it probably made you that much more attractive. An interesting story, indeed. I'm glad you shared.  Cocaine is a helluva drug I love how Bradley Cooper was obviously moving the babies arm to make it seem lifelike. Oh, and best of luck tomorrow! Most of all, just have fun.  Oh man, I really hope it wasn't Alex Wong: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sdf1V_rb9Lk Ruff crowd. Or would it be purr crowd? How fast were you jogging if people walking behind could hear you?! Haha :) I think I need a translator for some of OP's story..... Assuming that everyone is hetero? I had to replace all of the "they"'s with "she" because my brain hurt. Your submission has been automatically removed because the title does not start with 'TIFU'. Please check the sidebar for information about tagging your submission properly.


*[I am a bot](/r/AutoModerator/comments/q11pu/what_is_automoderator/), and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2Ftifu) if you have any questions or concerns.* on of the craziest things I have ever read How recently was this breakup?

Surely your friends can have your back on this rumor and say it was a joke and that you don't want some of Grandma.

Sorry a breakup had to come from this OP. Any chance of getting back together with her? marijuana's not even once He'll probably remember he told you the plan and then change it. You don't have to thank me  ... How far did the guy/walk drive from his home to use a phone? He had no idea there was no local PD?  Thanks! I'm off to ...*erm* study now. You're just an enabler at the moment So really, it sounds like today you TRUCKED up!
AHAHAHAHA!!!!!!

Seriously I hurt for you OP. :( Considering they broke up, that might have been written unintentionally. not a fuck up :) you were being yourself. Now there's a man who knows where his towel is! On it. Thanks haha glad you were not hurt OP, stay safe TIL, no I won't be submitting this. I do guess a lot of these abbreviations wrong. Guy here, that's freakin' funny.

If anything, it's an ice-breaker.  Don't let it stop you from introducing yourself.  Just introduce yourself as his "jet-powered neighbor". Girls cant do that Fake, and also a man wrote this. How was the username fart powers not taken yet?? He's not mature enough to just let it go when a girl clearly is not interested in him.  Sounds like a good trip, bro The coffee shop killer, has a nice little ring to it.  I will. It was a rush until I ended up in the ditch. I'll probably be smarter about it in the future and try it out in an abandoned parking lot next time. see, obviously this one's a girl &gt;My friend now thinks I aren't capable of making myself breakfast

Wonder why... everyone on the internet is a guy, every child is an FBI agent Generally, I figure you'd know he was going to propose, because you'd have sat down and discussed your plans, and marriage was part of it. I "proposed" at 6 years, we've known we would be getting married since about 2 years in.

A proposal should be executed at an unexpected moment, but the event itself should not be a surprise. It seems weird to me anyone would want that kind of life decision thrust at them without discussion or warning. Say, thanks! That means a lot. I'm just happy I didn't cause a traffic accident and my car is OK. The creator of BoJack Horseman (not a show I actually watch by the way) spoke about specific instances where they designed a character that they intended to be female, but if they didn't make her intentionally female-attributed, the audience automatically assumed she was male; furthermore, they would undervalue the joke because they weren't receiving it in the intended context (character is female). Only when the artists went back and purposefully made the character unmistakeable female did the context get fixed and the joke find success. They found that audience, in general, always assumes a male figure unless it is explicitly female. It's not about circumstances and usernames, it's a fact that male comedy is much more prevalent, and therefore much more expected, than female comedy is. Before anyone asks, FTFY means "Fixed That For You". I don't have kids, but that's definitely a game changer.  Where are his nipples?!? Lol, no worries.  I understood where you were coming from.  I was just giving the guy a little credit/being an asshat. Or maybe we simply picture "FartPowers" who runs with their sister and has a fart story to tell, is normally a male. How many fart stories on here are in fact by males? That and as Moira says, we self identify. i'm female and i assumed the author was male... then i thought he was gay. now i'm embarrassed to say i didn't figure it out until reading the comments.. -_- OP's new guest is his tenant. He can't "kick the guy out and change the locks" any less than a landlord could kick a tenant out and change the locks. He has to go to housing court first to get an eviction order. Calling the cops over a civil dispute where you are the one in the wrong is a stupid idea. They will not be amused. Hey, Kansas City!

You can come crash with me, bro. Please don't sext my boss. She real old. Only the nipple, not a full body frontal. I think the bell was available in developer preview and removed in commercial release. You mean, they're reintroducing the silent mode toggles?  Yeah.. you're not supposed to give hamsters chocolate at all it was a while ago. had love from a new woman since then. 

I would say yes to that but that year eventually ended in people receiving butt plugs etc.

Not a chance. I'm a happier man these days eh! Wut? With great power comes- yeah you know what I'm getting at.

Side note: When you said power slide, my head came up with "electric slide". You can imagine my disappoint when this story was about your car and not about you busting a move. the bucky was in the first goody bag of the year of 18ths, i was second. cant remember what booze i was given nawww you saw what she did there. Blossoming nicely, OP. I hope all works out great for you. What's google? I actually tag redditors if I find out they're female. I've got a few hundred by now, but I still very rarely come across a redditor who is tagged as female. The [barrier](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DP7BEsuwT30) is already broken! LOL - Don't worry about it. Guys can get over a lot for a girl they like. We forgive easily. Farting is not the end of the world. I laugh like hell when my girlfriend farts. Then again I laugh like hell when I fart too. 

My point is, you didn't ruin your chances if you were going to try. And even if you did, if the guy can't handle a fart or a fart joke then he's a lame fuck in the first place.  well at least you know he's going to... if he told you his plan just tell him to get a new one once he's sober. you wont know when exactly it's coming either.  Oh thank god.
When I read the title, TIFU by bringing my rabbit to class, I feared the worst, that ypur rabbit was hurt/squished/killed.
what's his name? Hey! Because potty humor is probably one of the earliest childhood funnies and we don't grow out of it. Probably a good thing. Wow, this response is straight out of the depths of Tumblr. Fellow Oncer! I'm sorry I disappointed! I'm actually deathly afraid of sliding on ice on my feet (even though I see my friends do it all the time) because I don't want to fall flat on my face and bust-a-nose. Black guy here: be careful next time you want to whip a joke out like this. People of my race are still chained to the idea that all white people have racist intentions behind innocent jokes. Next time you are around people of different races, imagine it as a proverbial cotton field and pick your comments wisely. We shall overcome the nonsense that comments taken offensively.
Power to (all) the people. All men must fart? Lmao. If there's no contract, the law can't do anything to him. Where are you located OP? The validity of the alleged letter is suspect. The wording is in the first-person and I don't think a corporation would respond that way. I'm not buying this. Who would go through all this trouble to be semi-famous on the internet for a day? Lots of people. NOOOOOOOOoooooo! He's the next door neighbor! Never date the neighbor!

No exit strategy; you'd have to move. We know.  It's not difficult to determine where the new addition to the fart order came from. Came to read because of OP's name. Story delivers.  False, girls don't poop. Their farts, however, are weapons grade.

Source: I'm a male. Not to mention, a tenant pays. Are you blind?

If so then yes,  yes I am. Life alert. It's kinda NSFW-ish, that's why I marked it. Tag me! Just like how every girl thinks she gives the best bjs.....no, the guy says you're good so he gets more of them and hopes you improve At least you didn't shit yourself.  I don't think anything else will happen. Sounds like you forgot how to drift You misspelled dogs. Maybe they jog really slow. Sooooo this post has been removed. Can anybody fill a dude in on what happened? 

PI where you at? If I ever were to meet him, I'd kick Milton Hershey's ass for calling that shit chocolate! I've been wondering the same thing What about kids that are girls?

Back in 04, I was 14 and getting to explore the Internet. Yahoo Pool led to a toj of friends on yahoo messenger...  And one of them started exchanging pics with me!! I was so happy, a 'real girl' and I were exchanging pics, chatting daily, and playing literati and Pool online daily. 

Ended up moving to another country for 4 months and completely forgot about my online buddy. 

A few years later I decide sort my email by oldest, and I find all her messages! Just by curiosity I search online for 'her' username, and see a ton of pics of some hairy old balding dude. 

**Tl;Dr** Exchanged pics with ehat I thought was a girl at 14, turned out to be a pedo. I think like 50% of the TIFUs I read simply could be avoided with people not acting like an idiot. It completely alludes me why you would do this, obviously by accident, but not apologize.  Just act like a human being and apologize!  Sheesh.  I'm guessing Europe and manual transmission van.
 Also, maybe OP is ugly and never stood a chance in the first place.  Loretta Bell: How'd you sleep?


Ed Tom Bell: I don't know. Had dreams.


Loretta Bell: Well you got time for 'em now. Anythin' interesting?


Ed Tom Bell: They always is to the party concerned.


Loretta Bell: Ed Tom, I'll be polite.


Ed Tom Bell: Alright then. Two of 'em. Both had my father in 'em . It's peculiar. I'm older now than he ever was by twenty years. So in a sense he's the younger man. Anyway, first one I don't remember too well but it was about meeting him in town somewhere, he's gonna give me some money. I think I lost it. The second one, it was like we were in newer times where I couldn't order a coffee plain white anymore. Where I walked in to order cake and they call it tiffin just because they cut it differently. And in the dream I knew that he was goin' on ahead and he was fixin' to make a coffee somewhere out there in all that dark and all that cold, and I knew that whenever I got there he would be there with his odd namings and labels for different shades of coffee. And then I woke up... 
 I feel like you wasted a perfectly good pickup opportunity here.

"Hey beautiful, you just got knocked the fuck out!"

*touchdown dance*

*karate moves showcase*

"Wooooooooooo!"

*try and high-five everyone nearby*

*Stand arms akimbo while catching your breath, then look down at her*

"DTF?"

Note: Results may vary ^ That Oh, please. Let's not pretend like you'd be reacting this way if you did this in front of a hot girl.  Sigh , some how when girls fart, it's a cute impression. And when guys fart... a stink bomb. Do you stick your balls in her vagina?  Have I been doing sex wrong my entire life.. (#)PersonalCumSlut. I'll just make the update again on a different sub later. I'm a bit short on time right now but check back on the original post later. Wow that hasn't happened to anyone ever before I thought OP was a boy at first and it would lead to some incest related remark from him, like joking how big her tits were i dunno Very fitting username for this one. I'm sure most here will happily oblige to that one. I don't see how "being involved in a murder investigation" is your fuck up. They are not investigating you. You just happened to give a guy a phone so he could call the police. 

I think it's an interesting story, and the story is fucked up, but I'm missing the part where you fucked up. So what if the cops talk to you? You aren't in trouble.  /r/spicy  At any rate if there was a verbal agreement the tenant has broken it.   Chill, No need to rush these kind's of things. Just let her know that it you we're referring to a video game. This is one of the first girl-fart stories where I didn't hear the OP say "tee-hee" after it. This is literally the opening scene of a rom-com. At first he'll start dating your sister, but months down the line he'll come to you and openly admit he has a thing for passing gas, and he only started dating your sis so he could get close to you in hopes you would fart again. You two will have a long, gaseous life together.  I'm a grill btw ;-) 10/10 Fuck up. Oh wow. Next you're gonna say that you stand up when you wipe.  Don't let us down, good sir. Life hack: black panties.  You never see the stains. Can't believe this took me like 10 years to figure out. I blame Always commercials. TIFU isn't quite appropriate for this.  More like today I was a heartless POS. you're right! milk first, so that you can notice if it spoiled :) ! You didn't know that men don't have nipples? And when it's chocolatey ohhh yeah You son of a bitch. I just let out an audible "HA!" at my cubicle. My co-workers are judging me... Last post at one point he said he was going to kill everyone involved.  If anyone has heard of a double murder/suicide recently that was probably him.  RIP crazy reddit dude. Who indeed? Not me, that's for sure. No verbal agreement was mentioned. http://i.imgur.com/grljo1Z.png We need pictures of said rabbit. Sounds like you made a mountain out of a mole hill. I personally wouldn't have cared. Does no one own a washing machine? WASH YOUR CLOTHES! Relevant username? Then one day she sharts, he leaves her and we get upset because of the *crappy* ending to an otherwise great show. You just needed to own it and call out the teacher.

Say you weren't cheating and that you just fucking farted. You can't have her fail you because of a simple bodily function that you have zero control over (due to your Tourette's as you mention) and that unless she wants the school as well as herself involved in a lawsuit based on the Americans with Disabilities Act she will have to provide you a formal apology in front of the class as well as the option to take the test over again. /r/thatHappened 

I don't believe you, there is no way you rented a jet ski in pattaya and walked away with enough money to buy a catfish. Point being? TIFU is for things that happen to you that are considered a fuck up. This, was a fuck up that happened to me. She has a point If I had gold, I would give it to you. I agree. Flip it around on him. Blow his mind and make it amazing. Doesn't have to be too crazy, just well timed and all that. Citation?  I guess that's a No I never even thought of that... Holy shit why didn't I think of that. Being blackout drunk doesn't make you forget, your brain just stops recording memories.  Because who goes out of their way to specify their gender? Nobody does that. Do you do that? Why do you do that? Once I realized you were a girl I knew the story had to be fake. Everyone knows girls comet fart. Not jet powered.  Sometimes I forget that girls arent soulless creatures that live on the suffering of mankind, but they are just regular people. Then I'm reminded later that they are still are sirens that enjoy the destruction they cause.  I have moral issues
There are some certain principles I never wanna transgress upon My wife and I had a similar situation.  My wife came home from work one afternoon to find a chocolate lab in our back yard.  The dog has no collar, just a ragged piece of rope around her neck.  We brought her inside and fed her, went to the little country store at the end of our street and asked if anyone had inquired about a missing lab.  They said they thought she belonged to the people across the street.  They also informed us that they were terrible to her and that it was probably for the best that she ran away.  We saw that there was a piece of rope that was frayed at the end, about three feet long attached to a dilapidated doghouse with half of the roof missing.  We knocked on their door but no answer.  She had wounds on her neck where the rope had been cutting into her neck.  Around this time, we decided that we didn't like the sound of her living arrangements and we decided that we were going to do everything in our power to get her out of that shithole.  We talked to a contact of ours at a local rescue we work with and they told us that if we got her chipped and got her shots up to date, that is enough to prove that we were her legal owners.  We did just that.  We also found out that she had heartworms and we got her the expensive treatment for that.  She is very loved and treated the way she needs to be treated now.  She is happy.  She lives indoors with us.  Her original owners never even came looking.  It really bothers me that people just view pets as property and not living beings. Tampons, or menstrual cups, will pretty much ensure you get exposed to zero blood while doing the deed. Nope ,, it's sounds like Carely I wouldn't be making a big deal about it like, "oh my god I made a bad impression on a hot guy!", it's just some stupid goofy thing that happened, and while embarrassing, yeah, really is small. Seriously guy?   Hence I said if.   I can't stop laughing. Can you imagine the number of people who must have wanked while looking at those pics (   ) Well now we do. Even if they are fast walkers she still must jog slow.
 That sounds mortifying, but recoverable. Own it: walk up to him and say, "Sorry about pooting towards you, but in my defense it was HEE-LAR-EE-OUS." If any of this is true, i hope you have a sad, lonely and painful life. Ending in a slow and painful death, you cunt.


 I don't know if you're mixing up stupid reddit comments and reality but OP clearly doesn't like this girl at all. Hell, he insulted her face. You don't do that to crushes. I shall now call all regular farts "ass queefs" Then wear a condom? Also, how many sexual partners have you had? In a relevant tifu, I was seeing this guy and it was a new relationship. He was heading out.  He closed the bedroom after saying goodbye and I thought the coast was clear. I let out the string of farts I'd been holding in all night. Then I heard him laughing outside, and he walked in to say goodbye again. I was utterly mortified. I just pretended not to know he'd heard it.

Tldr: check that the coast is actually clear before you destroy the myth that women are perfect delicate flowers who never have bodily functions. Meh, she's getting fat.  What's the big deal?  

People have babies that didn't even know they were pregnant.  That's the mindfuck.   Now you're making me scared about my new job.

I might as well just audition for Criminal minds/Hannibal or NCIS. I'm guessing she probably thought it was alcohol - urine is vaguely the color of beer.  Maybe she drank it to confirm it was beer and to get him in trouble or something.  After the girl said that you should have said "Yes and for my next trick I will make a dove appear" Balls deep in Santa's Asshole: The next mega porn flick.  Not true.

Source: I have German friends who aren't PC Wow what asshole asks a 10 year old that. Point being don't expect your story that looks like it took a long time to type up to blow up or anything because this has happened to almost every one that is human and isn't really that funny Is *[this](http://i.imgur.com/y0mcoMF.jpg)* your sister? Warning **NSFW** thank you for saving me kind sir TIL +1 Fuck you, cheloius I want to thank everyone for their kind words. It does give me a some hope in navigating this time in my life. I am in annistion, Al. This is why I use my underwear to do all the penis movement while peeing This is incredible. You didn't fuck up, this is hilarious. I'd think you were cuter for it. Did anyone else get to holding in gas and think oh OP shit themselves?  I wish I could see the reveal Fair enough. now i can upvote in peace Ever heard of /r/letsnotmeet ? Wouldn't surprise me if you'd soon be starring as a guest there... Your post was removed for breaking the rules. You most likely broke rule #7, #10 or #11. If you believe this was in error, please message the mods with a link to your post.


*[I am a bot](/r/AutoModerator/comments/q11pu/what_is_automoderator/), and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2Ftifu) if you have any questions or concerns.* Can confirm.  My wife and I microchipped and had a dog vaccinated after she ran away from her shitty home environment.  That alone was proof that we were her legal owners.   This thread has been linked to from elsewhere on reddit.


 - [/r/SubredditDrama] [Should Redditors post their gender when telling personal stories? TIFU gets their chromosomes in a twist when they realise half way through OP is female.](http://np.reddit.com/r/SubredditDrama/comments/2u3jej/should_redditors_post_their_gender_when_telling/)


*^If ^you ^follow ^any ^of ^the ^above ^links, ^respect ^the ^rules ^of ^reddit ^and ^don't ^vote ^or ^comment. ^Questions? ^Abuse? [^Message ^me ^here.](http://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2Fmeta_bot_mailbag)*

 Plus gay guys' farts aren't audible. Everyone on Tumblr is female until proven male. Excellent username is excellent. Cereal milk is the breast milk! And your girlfriend isn't? Tsk tsk... End the relationship for your own happiness.  Glad im a straight male so i dont have to worry about farting in front of hot guys. Also i dont jog. Happy birthday! Happy birthday! Happy birthday! Happy birthday! Happy birthday! Happy birthday! Happy birthday! Happy birthday! Happy birthday! Happy birthday! Happy birthday! Happy birthday! Happy birthday! Happy birthday! Happy birthday! Happy birthday! Happy birthday! Happy birthday! Happy birthday! Happy birthday! Happy birthday! Happy birthday! Happy birthday! Happy birthday! Happy birthday! Happy birthday! Happy birthday! Happy birthday! Happy birthday! Happy birthday! Happy birthday! Happy birthday! Happy birthday! Happy birthday! Happy birthday! Happy birthday! Happy birthday! Happy birthday! Happy birthday! Happy birthday! Happy birthday! Happy birthday! Happy birthday! Happy birthday! Happy birthday! Happy birthday! Happy birthday! Happy birthday! 


It was also my birthday last week!

Hopefully next year you will have some good friends to spend it with. &gt; 9 times out of 10, we cannot deduct the person's gender.

True. So why does everyone assume male if they can't deduce?  I said I wanted it to blow up? I don't think I ever said that. I'm simply posting something that happened to me on Reddit. Gay guy here. I *never* fart publicly. Ever. And, I would be devastated if this were to happen to me. Not speaking for all of us, just myself. Yeah, this story makes no sense.  If you were jogging how do 2 people magically appear 10 feet behind you (unless you jogged passed them while they were invisible).  They could be witches, I suppose. Lol you're commenting on a thread by the username Explodingtampon and you're telling me this will ensure no blood will seep through? Good one lol She's had that username for years..... Let me guess, you also don't know what a potato is? Why not?  I don't think I'd phrase it any differently.  They are still going to have one. &gt; just because the vast majority are

Is that actually true? Dryer sheet... Very no. They contain all sorts of stuff you do not want undiluted against your skin. You use a dryer sheet for your entire laundry load, even then sensitive people can get rashes. Who the fuck pisses in a bottle IN THEIR OWN FUCKING HOUSE! Fuck your brother and his lazy bullshit.  Yeah the one on the left It's ok. He'll come back 3 days later.  I'm just kidding. She's a keeper too I just have to find other ways to entertain myself when she's around than fart jokes He might remember he did it and then change up the plan to keep you on your toes I have nipples, Greg. See that I can understand. Hey at least you didn't find out your wife was cheating on you, am I right? [Imgur](http://i.imgur.com/XtaqZuk.jpg) Am I the only one here that thinks that the main fuck up in this story was the actions of "the girl"?

I mean she did tell her roommates about the whole 2nd date fiasco, not random strangers who might give a little advice or get a kick out of someone elses misfortune, but people that this poor guy would most likely have to associate with in future.

Anyone here that knows the story could be having a conversation with either of the two parties involved, and have no clue, but the roommates, they know, they know the story and the identities, to us, this is an urban legend, to them, it's gossip!

The fuckup is hers! Reporting for duty. Gay. Would be devastated by this.  This or when you just had cinnamon toast crunch  Harsh man. I was in second year when the power went out at my student house and I woke up with twenty minutes to my exam, with the next bus coming in 30 minutes. The University is on top of a fairly massive ridge and it usually takes about an hour and a half to walk to school. I'm still not sure how I made it (five minutes late but they thankfully gave me a pass), but I'm pretty sure adrenaline helped a good portion of it.

Things like these are the reason I always leave for school at least 2 hours before my exam, no matter what. If I want on the verge of finishing this bottle I might remember that. Today I farted uncontrollably Your post was removed for breaking the rules. You most likely broke rule #7, #10 or #11. If you believe this was in error, please message the mods with a link to your post.


*[I am a bot](/r/AutoModerator/comments/q11pu/what_is_automoderator/), and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2Ftifu) if you have any questions or concerns.* I knew immediately what happened by the title, been there, done that. At least it goes away after a while... Aren't the videos free anyway? This is the second post of pissing in a bottle and I've come to realize I hate everyone. Ffs piss out the window.  Should have ended by making the cashier bag in your watermelon and koolaid for full effect. 

My condolences for your fuck up, OP.  &gt; My dad talked to me about sex when I was 10 and told me that he jacked off at that age. 

When I hear stories like that, I mentally kick myself for not giving it a try at a younger age than I finally did.

&gt; I know that the current socialist China would let you jack to your dicks content, but if communist china was anything like North Korea he would've been killed if he got caught.

Wow.  It never occurred to me that either regime would take an interest in anything like that.  Reproduction and the number of children a couple had, maybe.  But masturbation, especially as a child, being a capital crime?  That's beyond messed up.

&gt; And if he wants to jack he can do it all he wants, but he's old enough to be a grandpa.

Is this a great country, or what?  :-)

 No, like you know how to put your phone in silent right? Turn the volume all the down, then once more from vibrate. However. The volume just stops at vibrate. Silent mode is gone altogether.  Dudes don't care about farts. I would actually have thought that was funny as hell and try to ask you out, if I were him. The sass in the reply is legendary  Thank you for your relevant perspective on public farting!  I'm happy I got to write the preceding sentence! I hope this help's OP. Keep your head homie.
http://www.financialhelpresources.com/city/anniston-al.html I call bullshit!  None of that is true.
 Imodium is the American Express card of Thailand: never leave home with out it.  http://www.reddit.com/r/running/comments/2kpjh2/while_running_i_pretend_my_farts_are_really_an/ 

You are not alone.  It's like a fucked up version of scott pilgrim! Pantilimon :) 
Im a huge fan of the "Dark Materials" series. 

Pan for short tho.  I'm glad you can say with certainty that it's probable that this might be the reason, maybe. Definitely. Relevance aside that is a truly /r/cringe worthy list of rules.  No but even a gay sbd undermines the institution of farting. So if someone gilds this comment of yours you would gild the comment you're replying to? I wish I knew how! 
Sadly as a "noob" here I have no idea how to post pictures :( That's why  you do what I did and call her long-distance to verify and have your parents wondering who you were talking to on the other side of the country. Well now that you know she's asexual you should ask if you can watch. It's naaaht a tooomaaaah!

FTFY No its fucking perfect! Sounds like he is a twat.

Hate tailgaters. Not only is he OP's wingman, but he's everyone else's wingman too. Sshhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhh i feel for you man.  i did that to my xbox a few years back and completely ruined it.  i have since graduated to a PC but ever since that day, my anger towards games and anything else has severely diminished. glad your team still won at least If anything he let his drunken state get the best of him. I'd say he fucked up by blowing the surprise. What you did was quite nice. That got real quickly. Yassss! 
Pretty sure the professor would have thrown me out at that point.  Probably said, but since when was vanity a deadly sin? That's the guy that plays Sherlock, right? put the pic on imgur then link it here! I tried this once in the rain, ended up with me hitting a tree head on, if I can find the polaroids (happened like 13 years ago) i'll scan em and post em. Wife calling husband:" honey i think im in labor! Quick drive me to the hospital" Husband: "Oh my gosh! I didnt know you were pregnant! Is it a boy or girl?" watch out with that logic, you'll make the sjw angry I'm a large man.  This TIFU has been Narrated and Slightly Animated for your viewing pleasure: http://youtu.be/8AoMoGB9YA4
 Never use that face on reddit .-. As a side note, the biggest factor in being healthy and fit is diet. Eating under your caloric limit will make you skinny, but eating nutritionally will make you healthy. admiralakbar.jpg It's funny how your coworker knows you well enough to figure that you were trying to slide on purpose http://www.crossroadstoday.com/content/news/local/story/Seadrift-Man-Arrested-for-Murder/q_EFOo9qeUigIBIQNHwEvQ.cspx If they were walking behind you,   and you were running,  wouldn't you have just overtaken them like 2 seconds ago? telling it how it really is! I can milk anything with nipples "Witness" is definitely a stretch, though it absolutely makes sense for them to question you, even if you were just loosely involved in this. Given that there is no way to connect you and your friend to this crime, I am sure your part will be over relatively quickly. Are you sure she didn't think you asked her to play Smash 4 with you? If I was asked to smash I'd assume it means to play the game, even by a guy (yes I'm female), not anything else. So why didn't you take your own car instead? Canadians knocking fools out on the metro... Man Canada goes hard. glad to know there's another fuckup out there just like me! feels good to have support in this, however virtual it may be This dude keepin it real. Girls don't poop. That's where glitter comes from. Or, you know, typical reddit lies. Bridal gifts! He laughed though, if he was grossed out he would have ughed. Must be American *macro adjunct lager. 

FTFY get you some American craft beer  &gt; Everyone on ~~reddit~~ internets is male until proven female.

FTFY I actually wouldn't care. My self esteem is so slow I wouldn't have expected her to find me attractive in the first place. A fart is the least of my worries.  I am surprised the guy didn't roll with it.  Or any animal for that matter... I don't get people who never save their games o-O I get anxious if I go an hour without saving, even when I'm not doing anything important. Disambiguated, you should be aware of the fact that you come across as a self righteous, judgmental cunt. When the day comes that you finally recognize yourself as the ugly, mean spirited person that you are, I hope you remember this post and weep bitter tears. Your attitude doesn't deserve pity. Go find a fire and leap onto it. LOL it may have been perceived as racist, but given the context of decision maker in a fraternity, it has nothing to do with ethnicity or any of that such. People need to stop being so sensitive.  As a woman, I generally assume writer is also female until I find out otherwise. Maybe we all just see ourselves in everything? It is not a total fuck up but now if they want to they can pull me into court and that can mean months and months of court dates being reschedule.  Help the bruthah out! /r/boobbounce under the folds of fat. My lady only have the super heaviest of flows, and always seems to forget this fact. Shit gets out of hand often. Fucking murder scenes all over the place. Could have been the lady who laughed. And grammar issue.  This is a great username. You should consider switching this to your primary. Someone give this guy gold.  
Not me though, I'm broke. i sense sexual tension upcoming between ur sister and that "incredibly hot guy" girls don't fart that can't be true If there's something I learnt from 4chan, is that OP is and shall always be a faggot I understand it is wey He drove about 15 miles and no he had just got into the area about a month before this, he is from near Dallas so he is probably a snow bird. The time to become a real man is upon you, OP. You must bang your way out of this corner.

Do the deed, and by deed, I mean your bosses va-jay-jay.
 Was it rekt?  This is easily the most hilarious portion of the story! I do my best to go by the wording and/or username. This is one of those times where language relies on context.  Once the baby is born, and adopted by the people, they have, as in possess, a baby.  In speech, the phrase "we are having a baby" or "I am having a baby" almost always is used to mean "I am pregnant and will be going through childbirth" or in the case of "we" "my wife is pregnant, and she will be going through childbirth".  Saying "we are having a baby" in relation to adoption is not a common usage of the phrase and said person probably shouldn't get mad if it is interpreted in the most common way. What? Thanks! 
How about I make you a deal? Whenever I get a picture up and going then I'll make sure to send you one. 
So expect a random rabbit picture! I met a guy once that actually asked me if I knew when the narwhale bacons. I almost died of laughter I'm honestly convinced that my girlfriend neither poops nor farts. She's stayed over at my place dozens upon dozens of times and I can count the number of times she has tooted on one hand. Meanwhile, I'm like a barnyard animal.

As for pooping, I'm not sure if she holds it in or is just super clandestine about the activity. I've never even caught a whiff of the aftermath. Sometimes you just have to go vintage When I heard "typical stoner laugh" the first thing I heard in my head was Seth Rogan, I don't think there could be a better stoner laugh Jesus fucking Christ I've never been so glad that I'm a guy until right now  I don't know. I don't, but while reading it, it kinda seems like a guy until I get to "hot guy". Then I wonder. Also, it's obvious most people on here are male. What that guy said, the user Mylifesuxnow. Milk ---&gt; Brick yeah i'm not worried about being connected in anyway, we are both on camera the whole time talking before he even came in. I can only imagine how slow you must have been jogging if an old lady was keeping up with you 10 feet behind whilst walking.  Who wanks to fat chicks. ugh /r/tumblrinaction Probably shouldn't have left, now they are going to be waiting thinking you are going to end up being a serial head basher who only goes after asian girls   Username checks out. That username made me laugh almost as much as the story. With great power comes great responsibility.  I'm with you. 

It gets me shit from normal guy friends a lot, lots of shit about how I shouldn't be a pussy


 a lot of weird stuff gets that response though, for example the fact that I own a pair of gloves(I'M SORRY THAT MY CIRCULATION PROBLEMS MAKE YOU UNCOMFORTABLE) and i tie my shoes. Odds are the guy would love that and find it hilarious.  Go talk to him! Must've missed at at 2am, damn... That can put you one minor infraction from a shitcanning. Haha scared of a little bodily function? Everyone does it, what's so bad about it? Ah, the old N-word Jim mix up.. How did that fare out? Half of the men can't find the clit or the g-spot, and you expect them to find the uterus for you? 5 star title. Yoda you are. 
TL;DR, funny it is. 

In all seriousness, I love their acceptance though! I identify as bisexual, about 2% of my friends know about it, my parents don't due to my dad being a huge homophobe. So, it's nice to hear when people accept their friends or family for who they really are :3 As a man, *I* certainly don't do that. it was the jet propulsion claim that would be the embarassing part, unless the claim were true. its embarrassing to be caught in a lie. You have a point. I was assuming freshly put in tampon, and not hours of oral. Oh well. Menstrual cups will do the trick, if freshly put in :P I always did it because, thanks to the physics of displacement, you get more cereal by adding milk second. They say 60% of the time, it works every time. ;) so its ok for her to tell her friends but not for you to tell random strangers on the internet? why are we even here? Parental units... nice reference Yeah those dumbfucks! Unintentional wing-man FTW! Well, you were delighted, happy and she said that she was going to have a daughter. How else would you interpret that?

Also, your prof has to get a thicker skin, because the things that she is going to hear for the rest of her life about her daughter are going to be far more harsh than what you said. She is going to have to deal with maliciousness, ignorance and prejudice.

So, while you blurted out unkindly about her weight gain, you were also excited an happy about her having a little child to raise.




 I see what you did there.  Me too. I guess some lessons stick. Lol  That's even better!  This is my favorite TIFU story in a long time. Thank you.  Exactly- OP is always a faggot Alright, going to do it again now. Fapped To Fat Yorkie! I stupidly clicked on a "period shits" link yesterday, and I'm relatively sure I have PTSD now.   "So, your name is Gay Focker?" Well shit. [Your story link was broken](http://www.crossroadstoday.com/content/news/local/story/Seadrift-Man-Arrested-for-Murder/q_EFOo9qeUigIBIQNHwEvQ.cspx) because you added a period to the end of the URL. I'll add why, in case you're interested. I was raised by old-fashioned Latinos and we would be whipped with a belt for burping or farting in public. Of course, we quickly learned *not* to do it.  As a result, most of my siblings (male and female) consider body functions to be crude and disgusting. We've raised our kids the same way, minus the belt whipping. (We do have one brother who is a steretypical "dude" who finds everything about poop and farts absolutely hilarious.)

On top of my upbringing, I am very self-conscious about anything having to do with poop or ass gas in front of straight men. I think I'm overly aware that straight men think gay sex is gross and I have a bit of a complex. Especially if the guy is attractive and I have secret hopes he might want to fool around some day.

So, that explains why I would be utterly, completely, never-ever-speaking-to-the-neighbors devastated in this scenario. Sounds like you have a good group of friends. I actually find that really interesting. I expected there to be at least a few more than that. Tag me too! There was a pretty fine chick in a couple of my college courses that I saw picking her nose once.  I never looked at her the same after that. &gt; edit: yup OP could be a gay guy

Confirmed, OP is a faggot. any guy worth his salt would find that funny. Of course he wouldnt laugh with his mother there. Came here for the usual fictional incest or otherwise "forbidden mingling of bodily fluids" story that r/tifu/ dishes out. Disappointed. http://portlavacawave.com/news/man-charged-murder Sorry I didn't make it clear. We continued to be together for a while after this situation arose the break up came from other sources, but she never really let go of the "do you want to bang my gran" thing What if I told you that male posters are not necessarily the vast majority anymore? As a guy this would not bother me. It would actually make me want to hang out with you because A) you're cool with farts and B) you like to have fun and be goofy.  

Not the end of the world. At least you didn't shit your pants. [It could have been worse](http://www.littlemissrunshine.com/wp-content/uploads/2012/04/Dedication_poopRunner_motiv.jpg) NSFW/L They're not fooling us.  We know what we smell like.    an old lady was keeping up with your jog? that's the fuck up. I think I just said in certain replies. For example, if I'm a guy and I say 'hot guy', I would think people would think I'm gay. If I'm straight, I might say 'good looking' or 'handsome'. This is not a "deal". Just an observation. Hey there ya go, typical judgmental ,misogynistic Indian person. What I do with my bf is my business and you shouldn't be sticking your nose where it doesn't belong. I really hope that people don't actually think that all Indian people are like *you* because that would be a disaster. P.S Try to actually read before you start judging, thats not my id, asshole. Here you go http://mylifesuxnow.com/ Why the fuck did Autocorrect change 'so' to 'Sri'? Can you milk me? I'm guessing kicking your PC after losing is a ritual that is only just now having a consequence, I'm just glad it was a quick fix.

I don't play DotA 2, but can you explain the entire last paragraph. What did your friends win and would they be able to share it with you manually? It is, isn't it? Me and him get along great since we both love cars. The one who fucked her "Wall of snow" you obviously have never lived threw a good snow storm you can still see grass  So would she? In true every-gay-man-is-a-12-year-old-girl fashion, I just fell in love with you. Thank you for your service, kind sir. I may actually consider buying some Reddit gold for cases such as this. You'll have to settle for my undying internet gratitude for now. Wow. Did you get injured? Hoping you were OK! (and didn't cause any accidents) Thanks! I once went to meet my girlfriend's work colleagues after work. First person I meet, I shake her hand 'hey, you have really small hands' says I in what is supposed to be a fun and friendly manner. Turns out she only has one hand :( As a man, you'd probably mount anything that had suitable openings. Especially as a man on reddit.

And if you wouldn't do something in front of your mom or a police officer, you probably shouldn't do it on a first date. Just saying. These memories can stick with you *for a lifetime*, god damn it. Yeah thanks i fixed it. Ya, but... it gushes and splatters? That's like the shit that happens when you cut an artery. Keep us updated then. We like to live vicariously. tha...no real response... Remindme! 5 days that's not normal? Yeah, dude, don't go giving away the secret. What kind of guy are you, anyway? You're out of the club. sheeeeeesh... Uhh taco! Now, in addition to pocket dialing and butt dialing, there's nipple dialing. Just wondering, did you still need to hand the exam in to be graded or was it already marked? And I don't really understand why he even took the exam from you. My boyfriend proposed while drunk  then while he was sober said he never wants to get married or have kids. D:
How your situation is different!  :) Pics, Happened. Maybe they thought.....? I don't know man... It's kind of weird to me. 

110 is not a healthy weight for most women. Go look at a BMI chart. It's underweight. If she's aiming for 110, and PREGNANT, that's potentially dangerous! 

I really don't know why I got downvoted for saying what should be the most sane thing to say. 

Women. Fit is sexy. Skinny is not. Be healthy. Be comfortable in your bodies. Don't let other people drive you to be unhealthy. Don't fall into the trap of an eating disorder. 

Also, any doctor that is trying to help her get UNDER 110 lbs should lose his license. 

It wasn't really clear. Maybe she's super short? Maybe I read it wrong and she's UNDER 110lbs and trying to get UP to a healthy weight? 

I... dunno man... You just ... opened my eyes!

One time, I ate chocolate, then I ate some type of sour candy, and all the sudden it tasted very strong like vomit in my mouth, I couldn't figure out why the chocolate tasted like that!

And now I know! The other candy must have canceled out the other tastes and left the vomit taste 10 months pregnant? /u/poem_for_your_sprog is the only one who I see regularly. Of course I could make it easier by just going through reddits like /r/AskWomen or /r/birthcontrol but that's a ton of effort and no fun. I don't specifically look for female redditors, but if I read something that gives away their gender I tag them. I love that in almost every story on Reddit there is a telltale sign by which you can guess the writers sex and then enjoy the whole story even better with this fact in mind. No you are thinking of Vicks, Vaseline is the petroleum goo jelly stuff. Glad I helped:^) Oh I miss read parts of this as i have an incredibly short attention span. Thank you for correcting me. Maybe she should have had them use it instead of trusting shitty condoms. A guy probably wouldn't care about people hearing him make fart jokes.  So why is your booty bleeding? due to a latent period, if that's the case your shit has to be at least partially functional... That sounds like an interesting photo though You can report it and at least give the means in which you contacted them. It could help the authorities find the fuckers. Worth a shot. RemindMe! 5 Days how do you not run by someone and not notice them till they are behind you. i call bullshit. You want to know how my dad proposed to my mom?

No fancy dinner, no moon lit walk on the beach, oh no... 

He was drunk, she was driving him back to the barracks (they both were in the army) before he had to report for field duty for three months, and before he got out of the car, mind you this is the last thing he said before he went out for those three months, was, "When I get back, we're getting married".

My mom was just like, "Okay!". Called the court house, set a date, and they got hitched. But still... my dad doesn't like to admit to that today. This is her TIFU.

You don't swipe someones phone unless you're willing to see a cock shot or something like the picture she saw.

 Hahaha haha
If you dont lend the job PM me brother, ill give you a marketing job! It could be a faggot. You didn't fuck up, you just work with uncultured skimpers who have no freaking idea what the hell is going on.  If they freak the fuck out because you referenced "Back to the Future", I am terrified...legitimately terrified in the magnitude of when my wife made we watch the "airplane phalanges" episode of friends; total loss of faith in humanity.  OP's name is confirms this. He's probably gay... I hope. How old would you guess he is? Your post was removed for breaking the rules. You most likely broke rule #7, #10 or #11. If you believe this was in error, please message the mods with a link to your post.


*[I am a bot](/r/AutoModerator/comments/q11pu/what_is_automoderator/), and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2Ftifu) if you have any questions or concerns.* Oh, you made me laugh. Thank you. Brilliant ending. 11/10 This is on the news? I NEED SAUCE Kick him out he wont get a job and hes just using you  But now he's almost at 169 The last part you say is true, but again, I've seen a ton of 'Devils_Dick' or 'Can_I_Stick_It_In' or something like that usernames where you know it's a man. Or then the context. Or still, like I said somewhere else, most people on here just happen to be male. Even some/most of the NSFW photos. Not many women would post themselves with their face, or a messy room, or whatever without getting paid or having their photos stolen. Onboard video FTW. Reinstalling OS may have been bit much though. Still not hot as Daquan's Mixtapes. Maybe not everyone who shares their stories wants to bother themselves to point out they aren't straight males before they post? Do you have a link? [Fart Power](http://www.reddit.com/r/tifu/comments/2u2gsw/tifu_by_jogging_with_my_sister/co4pogt) No sure I really understand what happened here. There, done. Link to the AMA?  so whats rule 34? Guys. Sorry if I posted something depressing/sad. Some friends of mine just linked me to the TIFU about some OP listen to crying kitten sound and the cat looked for it so I was reminded of the incident and thought I'd share mine. Didn't mean to ruin anyone's day. Soz!! So sorry! Nah. I was at a register whenever they told me too. I'm sorry, but it was ridiculous that only the guys were expected to clean the dining room. I stand by that. If not, I should have been paid more. Isn't that what equality is? Or do I have that backwards?  /r/randomactsoficecream is a thing isn't it? Why not this Believe us when we say this is not a fuck up. It is? I wasn't aware women couldn't sweep, lift a garbage bag, or scrub a toilet.  Sorry about that. But I can send you a pic of my balls if that'll make you feel better &gt; Should have ended by making the cashier bag in your watermelon and koolaid for full effect.

look at cashier dead in the eye to assert dominance. Ah, I wondered if you were of that culture from your user name,  I have known several South American families that feel the same way.  There is definitely a cultural difference, as with personal appearance. This^. I hadn't even heard of the abbreviation before seeing it. Is there a newsletter somewhere that I can get? Sri is a common nickname for names like Srilakshmi. They probably mistyped "si" instead of "so" which autocorrected to "Sri".  hahahahahahahahahahahahahaha m8 im done with your sass
 I learned this lesson with ghost peppers on steak. Sure, you finish it, but that shit is as much an endurance trial as it is an act of consuming delicious food. So making a comment or two means it bothers me so much? LOL Why else would they work out I just break my mouse from squeezing it too hard.  Never hit the case or anything in it dude.  I think they were just mentally worn out from a tough few weeks.  I can certainly see what you mean though. Maybe OP and her sister *really need* to get in shape.  OP Delivers

http://www.reddit.com/comments/nmmjr/iama_man_who_had_a_sexual_relationship_with_his/#c3aabr9 Thanks bro. Cant help but feel guilty for it though. That's kind of a dick move. _ [I just don't trust anything that bleeds for 5 days and doesn't die.](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZDUq9BBr3bA&amp;list=RDZDUq9BBr3bA#t=5) I guess you fudged up big time. sweet baby Jesus that is horrific  /r/clopclop

/r/dragonsfuckingcars

/r/aeromorph

/r/birdswithhumanpenises

just a few examples Oh dear. My name isn't stop. My name is dad. If you big it up to be a huge, earthshattering event, it's gonna disappoint you anyway, you have someone who loves you, just relax! I wash before and after everytime.  OCD does that to you. She followed and disturbed me when I want to take the kitten away. The least I could do is to let her have her farewell :( Hey look, a tifu that ACTUALLY made me laugh! It made me feel better.  fucking hilarous!
 On my part or hers? Considering she constantly hits and tells me to shut the fuck up every single day of my life. That's sounds so fucking disgusting. But I'm a guy so yehh Drink the evidence and hide the dick behind ya head, the police is coming  i assumed it was a male because every sister-sister pair i've ever seen in real life hates each other 100% Nah, most likely the nurse or doctor caught the poo in a napkin/gauze as it came out. To promote cardiovascular health and/or tone up? Most people I see at the gym aren't unattractive. When you see the baby crowning I LOVE being male until proven female! There are waaaaaaay less arguments than irl, and I can just express my opinion, boom, done.

I don't have penis envy, I have "I can spout my strong opinion sans all the bullshit" envy.

10/10 Would Male Again (Though My Vagina is Still Kinda Awesome.) I see no reason why she should be upset with you posting the story online if she is comfortable telling other people about it anyway.  Christ, that made me jump. Most are retarded sure, but the no-retarded ones stand true. 

6, 8, 9, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 24, 25, 26, 30, 34, 35, 36, 38, 42 - Those are correct, some are just hard to understand. 

Example: 30. There are no girls on the internet. - Seems sexist, but it really isnt. Quite the opposide, What it really means it that noone get special treatment on the internet based on their gender (this excludes places like twitch.tv and /r/gonewild etc..). Simply becouse noone gives a fuck about it. 

Of course there is next point that invalids it, but hey I didn't made that list.  Unttil proven otherwise Haha, I may have over-exaggerated. I didn't know of a better way to describe the clear divide between the road and grass. I have seen pictures of snowstorms in some parts of Canada, where it literally was a wall of snow, like 10 or so feet. Crazy. He didn't mention how or when, right? That's like saying "we're going to buy a house" It doesn't mean it's going to happen tomorrow nor did he give any details. Think of it as his referring to the inevitable. You will still be surprised and he will find a loving and special way to propose. Had you been dating for 6mo and he blurted this out, I'd run for the hills, but you two seem all right and three years is a good enough time for you to expect as much. Lastly, keep in mind that when a guy wants to propose to a girl, he still has to save up and do research for the ring. So hang out and feel secure that your special day is coming.  It's a joke. This is where you laugh. Gotta get some hot lungs 420% level of high I'm surprised she didn't just eat it.  That doesn't sounds like it would do that but if you use win 7 you can go to control panel &gt; programs &gt; default programs &gt; associate a file type... the change all WinRAR opening to the right program That was actually a copy/paste straight from wikipedia! and as a flustered Canadian, I presume you have the standard apology message:

ARE YOU FUCKING SORRY!! AGAIN...certain replies it helps "understand" better. Not sure why saying their gender is a deal. How else does one learn to breathe fire? I was actually fine, superficial head injury and some minor cuts and scratches. My buddy on the other hand ended up shattering his elbow on impact, I was doing about 45 mph and brakes weren't working so the collision was pretty significant. Took the wrecker about 3 hours to pull my car off of the tree, they dropped the car off in my front lawn and the next morning I woke up with like 30 messages on the house phone from my friends thinking I was dead. Lesson learned, my powersliding days are over! ;) I want one too! GIRL = Guy In Real Life You just learned a valuable life lesson. indeed, I think it helps us understand each other without confrontation That's my favorite percentage of high.  Well, if she lit a match, she'd truly be jet-powered like Usain Bolt! You should commit [Harry Caray](http://media.giphy.com/media/PQhy2RFREzfC8/giphy.gif) instead. I'm posting this especially for you to ask if you're actually an Indian and from a good decent family...coz you sound like a whore...No Indian girl from a really decent family will even contemplate calling themselves by adjectives such as in your id(cheap chik??) and be doing the kinda things that u'v just said... Wonder if those pics of some of your family you've posted(os-Cool) even have any connection with you...coz they dont look like pimps!!! Are you someone in disguise trying to malign the Indian culture and decent Indian people? everyone farts everyone I was leaning more towards them being brother/sister and that the jogging had gotten the brother a semi and was going to lead to incest.  Infact, beer is simply cold piss Waited too long, goddammit I imagine they were walking perpendicular to the path OP was jogging. So she essentially jogged past them, and they were walking 10 feet behind where she was when she noticed. That's how it read to me at least! Am I the only one who was engrossed by the idea of Girls smoking, as a child, rather than something totally natural ? /s r u serious?! Did they not notice the manlish hand and armpit hair? The guy was jogging with his mother. Confirmed. You're allowed to say fuck. Say it with me. FUCK. Hmm.. Relevant Username ? Sometimes I still wonder if I'm looking at an oversized clit or a micro-penis. Get one up ON; that all-important preposition makes such a difference, eh? So you didn't notice these people as you passed them? Yeah, I'm calling BS. So what if I use 7zip instead? &gt;Example: 30. There are no girls on the internet. - Seems sexist, but it really isnt. Quite the opposide, What it really means it that noone get special treatment on the internet based on their gender

Really? On a list that immediately afterwards says "TITS or GTFO - the choice is yours" it isn't sexist? 

 "More than 9 million people in England drink more than the recommended daily limits"
https://www.alcoholconcern.org.uk/help-and-advice/statistics-on-alcohol/

In 2007, 33 per cent of men and 16 per cent of women (24 per cent of adults) were classified as hazardous drinkers. This includes 6 per cent of men and 2 per cent of women estimated to be harmful drinkers, the most serious form of hazardous drinking, which means that damage to health is likely.
http://www.hscic.gov.uk/pubs/alcohol11
 Your post was removed for breaking the rules. You most likely broke rule #7, #10 or #11. If you believe this was in error, please message the mods with a link to your post.


*[I am a bot](/r/AutoModerator/comments/q11pu/what_is_automoderator/), and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2Ftifu) if you have any questions or concerns.* Damn I'm getting drunk tonight! TIL I know what you're thinkin. Here comes Old Greg, he's a scaly manfish. You don't know me. You don't know what I got. I got somethin to show ya.
... You know what that is? That's Old Greg's vagina! I've got a mangina! I'm Old Greeeeeeeeeeeeeeg! [You](http://i.imgur.com/NoPFHp6.png) My guess is that you'll be getting some extra attention at work from now on...probably the good kind! She won't soon forget a text like that! They prefer BBWs. And I do. Doesn't mean I'm only into fat girls though, I like variety..kinda like skittles. The real WTF is using WinRAR in the first place. Everyone will get one! :) ^ This. People on /r/gonewildcurvy I'm seriously surprised she didn't hack you up and you got away to write this, the fact she broke into your home..I laughed so hard I kept crying, my boyfriend didn't find it as funny. (He looked me dead in the eyes and said.."I deal with a crazy woman every day)..So I jumped on the hood of his car and... TY OP  Then when they make the direct sequel, she meets a guy who smells her fecal covered panties at the laundry. They both hit it off and he explains that sharting happens to be his biggest fetish. He's really cute so even though that's weird she goes with it.  i mean, eating chocolate is like sex for some people lol  I also eat my cereal dry. I've been catching shit for it my entire life. 90% chance if u grabbed a canadian and smashed them like that they would say sorry for being in the way of your grabbing that poll. canada +1 Stand easy, Scotty; the letter from Tesco came from Dundee but I'm a Sassenach living way down South... ...are you actually Oprah? Hope today was good too! don't trip young grasshopper, hit her up, don't play no games like others are saying "let her phone you" who cares who phones who, no need for the awkwardness, plus she can't be mad since you didn't list her name her DL # or her FB link so to us she's anonymous as fuck 

but seriously, see what honesty gets you ? gets you pussy.  Is this true? Because i too can do this.  Never thought i may be a psychopath though lol Dude, you've gotta report that! That's clear animal abuse! Cheeseballs &gt; Blueballs

Always! Daba Daba Dab
Da Daba
Da Ba Da Bada Da
Daba Dam
Daba Dam 
Da Da Ba Da Da I thought "he" was going to tell her to keep up and she was gonna start crying because she thought "he" was calling her fat hey bro...dont waste your breath...its certainly some whore stole those pics from somewhere...this is how the w.trash tries to malign indians
Alternatively...if it is indeed an Indian...for sure some 'goray's' keep licking the cat daytime and his ass at nite!!!
downvote the brown trash. This is pure gold! Why not
 Hey, at least the cereal doesn't have ants in it. What is freshening up? Are we reapplying makeup and perfume? Or are we making sure our vaginas are dinner ready? I always assume dinner ready. [peekaboo](/spoiler) I wish :( 

Then I could hand out better prizes than rabbit pictures.  False equivalency  They aren't "having" a baby, they're getting one.  As someone with colon cancer, I can confirm the accuracy of your analogy. Gives "butt hurt" a whole new meaning. girls dont poop Why do so many tifu submitters try so hard to come up with the most irrelevant and undescriptive titles?

You fucked up by farting in front of a hot dude, not by jogging with your sister. Or a shot of mercury. Never has a truer word been spoken  Well, you have all my deepest sympathies as a fellow woman who has woken up in a bathroom thoroughly convinced that she killed someone only to find out that I'm just loopy from pain meds for the cramps from the epic flow.

I'm laughing, but only so you may laugh at it too. Have you considered 'Fresh Balls' lotion?

 Ouch. That's rough man.  And guys are somehow squeamish of this shit. 

Dude, it's the worst time of the month for her, so just get in there like a bulldog with Parkinson's and gobble that red tide til she stops crying. You'll strengthen your relationship and it tastes like conquest. The truth within you is almost bursting to come free, /u/determinedforce. *Let it out*. 9/10 With rice.
Thanks for the suggestion. I knew it! &gt; you can't have sex 

Period sex is fucking awesome, and you save money on lube. Plus, you get to feel like your motherfucking Brutus and your girlfriend's hair donut is Caesar.  True- the capsaicin that makes chillies hot isn't water soluble, but is fat soluble, so milk (an emulsion of fat and water) is a much more effective way to wash the capsaicin from your mouth. I think you should surprise him and propose first! I gotta here the rest of this. Hoe does one get shit on their elbow?  That's a shitty situation  Well, some bellend did.

 I was extremely disgusted....

at first, then.... So....does he? It's been asked, but I will reiterate: how do you get shit on yourself?  TIFU by trying to find a picture of Borat giving you a thumbs up but instead it was a whole imgur album of vaginas (maybe, I only saw the first one.) this isn't that bad.  fatty got called fat, whoops. yes..ur rite...Should get an opinion from that bloke(with th sheep/taj) she's posted a pic of...director of something or the other...on her 'private' doings published 'publicly'!!! haha
Wonder what he'd have to say about that pic hehe...'public' or 'private'...haha [Relevant](http://www.reddit.com/r/AskReddit/comments/2ccqw7/z/cjeicvq) I was just kind of referencing a previous TIFU

http://www.reddit.com/r/tifu/comments/2t9y3q/tifu_by_using_the_bathroom_at_work/ There needs to be more constructive criticism to improve the overall quality of the average blowjob You seem pretty level headed.

Do you want a child in the future? If so abortion is a risk. (Can fuck up all kinds of stuff)

Adoption is always good if you can tough out the pregnancy.

Raising a child is hard, but I know plenty of women who have and still went to school and graduated.

Its gonna be work no matter what you do.  Take a deep breath and really think about what you want.

You are gonna be ok. The only thing I can imagine that happened was when I was holding my shirt, the used toilet paper brushed my shirt.  ^and this guy. wow. he fucking gets it. Yep, this qualifies as a Grade A TIFU. lol this actually happened to my friend who does not have a reddit account so i posted for him, his sister really does have quite the bottom tho i must say, poor kid tho ahahaha
 Why on earth would they phrase it like that.  "We found out we are having a daughter!!!" if homeless guy wanted to use that card, it would have been with his ex-fiance. Dude...that IS a definite fuck up  How did you get from "Person who needs to be fired, but can't be because government" to "MORE MONEY WILL FIX THIS PROBLEM BY HIRING MORE PEOPLE WHO NEED TO BE FIRED!"? Your submission has been automatically removed because the title does not start with 'TIFU'. Please check the sidebar for information about tagging your submission properly.


*[I am a bot](/r/AutoModerator/comments/q11pu/what_is_automoderator/), and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2Ftifu) if you have any questions or concerns.* Yeah, but EXE files are a little different and can't be changed there. They are kind of not opened in any program. Yes! Shower us with your months of experience and knowledge! 

;) Holy shit, I'm fucking *choking* back laughter. Had to walk away from my desk. I hope somewhere that girl knows that her traumatic horrorshow made my day just a teensy bit better. 

Thank you.  Your post was removed for breaking the rules. You most likely broke rule #7, #10 or #11. If you believe this was in error, please message the mods with a link to your post.


*[I am a bot](/r/AutoModerator/comments/q11pu/what_is_automoderator/), and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2Ftifu) if you have any questions or concerns.* Was the "Cotton field" bit on pourpose? Sounds like the man was a scumbag just as much.  shit happens, life isnt easy wrapped up presents.  People do dumb things everyday and random people on the internet don't get to judge. Even if he didn't have Downs, it was a douchebag thing to say. You always fuck up when you act like a douchebag. Act like a classy human and these kind of things won't happen. I understand your parents might be trashy so you never had a good role model, but you should try to find a good role model to learn from. It's not only men that assume the default male. Women assume the default male too.  How do you make women smile and drool after you?

...Give her an extra chromosome! This should be at the top I straight up told my prof i needed a 93% on my thesis in my final year in order to graduate my university program. requirement was 75% avg. the prof gave me a 92%. giving me an avg of 74.75% final. Good thing they rounded up and let me pass. what happens when they're both?! 0:! Some people pay good money for that. This is actually funny. Why did you set your name as that anyway? I have 2 rabbits that are half mini Rex! I want a picture too!
 i demand an update Yeah its any just that the new variation now is (we) 

No mames we How's about that? I'm just being honest and not ALWAYS making jokes like most and I have a stalker while I'm literally watching the show Stalker at this very moment. Truth is stranger than fiction as they say. This could be another askreddit thread. At least by explaining the situation to you it means they like you.. XD..imagine if they told u 
(clean yer a** or get the hell out of our house)
..would it be better this way ?,
i personally would feel liberated and more connected with them afterwards.. *Presumed* a **guilty** male until proven an innocent female. OP how much of this story is base up BS? 99% of it or the full 100? To be honest though, farts are fun. If said hotty didn't find you hilarious, his loss. Like you've never done anything wrong?  Get off your high horse. This should have been a TI[F]U. idk why but I found it funny that at the bottom of the article from the wave it's tagged as "Muder". I just imagined danny devito's mom from throw momma from the train saying "MUDERRRRR". Your post was removed for breaking the rules. You most likely broke rule #7, #10 or #11. If you believe this was in error, please message the mods with a link to your post.


*[I am a bot](/r/AutoModerator/comments/q11pu/what_is_automoderator/), and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2Ftifu) if you have any questions or concerns.* Was it Kate good though?  Crying doesn't make him feel guilty. So it's a pretty useless tool. How stoned were you? Are you in the 1980s????? Everyone got a caller ID to the point that no one calls it a caller ID anymore I would have referenced needing to use "The Way Back Machine" 


-Mr. Peabody and Sherman When I was a kid and in preschool, we were getting breakfast and I told one of the teachers I didn't like milk in my cereal. She thought that was so weird and started poking fun at me. I was really embarrassed already, but then later in the day, this teacher just randomly brings it up to another teacher in front of me and they both start laughing.

I think about it every time I eat cereal now. Scarred for life. Maybe, it was a She-tree?
 cotton field. whip. chain. we stopped doing that a few weeks ago, but the above poster didn't get the message.  It was a douchebag thing to say, and to be honest, it changed my whole perspective about being the clown in a given situation. I don't know about any other times I've hurt someone by being a clown, but just seeing the look on this kids face made me want to kick my own ass.  You could always open Cmd, and force open winrar. (   ) LPT: Don't butt into conversations when drunk. I'm a man and I feel that about reddit most days... Sure, they could have popped out of an alley or something.  It would have to be a pretty well timed coincidence and you still typically are aware of people around you (and you would see them in the alley or wherever when you passed it).  I'm still going with witches. Don't tell him you know. Act surprised.

Could be worse... you could have found out and not wanted him to. Or the crumbs at the bottom of a Mini-wheats. The guys commenting on that should seriously be questioning their sexuality right now.

How can you not tell ffs (   ) Your submission has been automatically removed because your post is too short. Please add more context to the text box, then [message the mods](http://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2FTIFU&amp;amp;subject=My%20post%20was%20too%20short%20please%20review&amp;amp;message=My%20post%20was%20too%20short%20please%20review%3a%0d%0a%0d%0ahttp://www.reddit.com/r/tifu/comments/2u3x32/tifu_by_eating_chicken/) to have your post approved.


*[I am a bot](/r/AutoModerator/comments/q11pu/what_is_automoderator/), and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2Ftifu) if you have any questions or concerns.* It could have been worst you know  Reminds me of my friend who once brought up that if he's out of milk, he'll eat his cereal with water. He didn't seem to understand what the big deal was. I haven't met anyone else who does that. Could be worse. you could have written about august 1820, then you would have looked really stupid.
 We've talked about it before. I'm just a oblivious person. I'm happy though, I can't wait to grow old with him.  This site is great whenever people ask me why I don't drink, thank you for yet another example. Hahhaha what metro station, I have feeling you did it either at McGill or Guy-Concordia..been taking the stm for 8 years and I missed seeing this in person So does her vag smell better now? Never ever assume a woman is pregnant. NEVER. Thats not a male protip, this always applies. Ouch. That must've have sucked for you, and your friend. I was going maybe max 20-25 mph, and the sudden increase of accelerating force with little to no traction is probably what did it for me.

If my car was wrecked I would be destroyed. I literally cringed while reading Life lesson right there.  Those old folks really care about you, talking honestly about the situation. Unaware of 2 people within 10 feet of you on a road.  I bet you're an excellent driver.  He's an old fashioned knuckle brawler he'd throw some strong hooks at you I'd be careful.  Are long distance calls in the US treated differently from calls to the same (city/state/coast)? Baby powder can help keep it dry down there. My girlfriend always tells me to put it on because I too have big, smelly balls. Don't whiz on the electric fence? Why is this a TIFU?  It's a completely legal hot-for-teacher. Keep in mind that some people produce and secrete more body oils that can stain sheets after a week and that doesn't necessarily have to do with cleanliness.   Damn. You reddit so hard. Half mini rex!? Half plushie fur! 
What are they mixed with? I'm sure OP's tone, in his inebriated state, was the exact opposite of comforting and reassuring. It was as a joke between me and a friend, but I completely forgot about it  which is why I didn't realize it. In a small world. and the underwear wouldn't be able to fall out the bottom Is this really a tifu? Sounds more like a first-world problem that you shouldn't freak out over. Just be happy you're with the one you love and take his drunken rant with a grain of salt. Duck! what a silly bitch If your natural bodily functions don't make you all the more beautiful to him..eff that guy. But CMD is also EXE, so it couldn't be run. Only way I managed to run EXEs was through setting new task in task scheduler and running it. $3.50 I'm really tired and I thought your name said PM_ME_UR_TITTIES Bobby hill, bobby motherfucking hill. Never thought this was ganna be an issue in the future.  Welcome to 2015 i guess.  we all need a diet. OP has to be a girl, why else would she be embarrassed about a fart? wait so did you ask if hed be visiting again? He laughed...that's a good sign. If his face was all scrunched up with disgust, then it's over. But laughter is okay. :)  Seriously though, if he has such a stick up his ass that he wouldn't want to get to know you because you farted once, he's not worth getting to know anyway! This guy' s dog did this to me and the guy *knew*. He asked me if I was  having my woman time.  ._. Assuming this is a land line (which, given the time line, is a fair assumption), long distance calls can be charged higher depending on the calling plan you have. Also, the destination of the call would show up on the bill. Curvy is not the same thing as fat.  Holy shit what is wrong with the internet? 

Curvy is like Jay lo,  Kim k,  luna star etc.  They got a lot of  meat but not a big belly. I asked if he'd be back as a visitor, the question, and my tone, implying he'd be back as a prisoner.  Your submission has been automatically removed because the title does not start with 'TIFU'. Please check the sidebar for information about tagging your submission properly.


*[I am a bot](/r/AutoModerator/comments/q11pu/what_is_automoderator/), and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2Ftifu) if you have any questions or concerns.* As a guy this made me cringe. I mean a lot.... Well, I learned some things today. Was there a "Great scott!" in there anywhere? OT Genasis? Im sorry but thats her fault. Who the fuck says "we just found out we are going to have a daughter" when they are adopting. This is something I've been wondering for quite a while... Is a (typical) gay relationship more like a hetero one with being affectionate and taking care of the other or is it more like a fart-joke-buddy that you also fuck?  It's not about the size of the dick, it's about the size of the heart inside the dick.   I believe the purpose of the next point was something to the likes of "If you're going to try and garner attention by claiming to be female, this is how you're going to be treated." It was a way to keep females from trying to get special treatment simply because they have different plumbing. I wouldn't feel too bad. Most teachers in just about any school would shut that down fast because you don't know what might trigger someone. 

You didn't say anything wrong, but your teacher is in a position where that isn't a topic that can be safely discussed. I'm not the incredibly hot guy, but the "jet powered" stunt would have scored some points with me. Bing it... Appropriate username. You tried to power slide in a FWD car? That's an Acura TL right? Fuckin got him. Haha a friend did that recently (without the redditting) just drove up to the first window and the cashier just yelled at him, because i guess they were notified that someone drove up but did not get a response.  You guys gonna end up together... Believe me :) What if, hear me out... What if they are witches AND they were walking perpendicular to OP's path? That's the only logical explanation in my opinion. 2500 upvote for some chick embarressed from a fart.

I heard 4 guys rip one today, we work with 4.

 It has nothing to do about being connected with the crime but how he was acting, state of mind, how he was dressed, anything out of the ordinary, etc.  [Let me google that for you](http://lmgtfy.com/?q=ftfy)  hey bro...dont waste your breath...its certainly some whore stole those pics from somewhere...this is how the w.trash tries to malign indians Alternatively...if it is indeed an Indian...for sure some 'goray's' keep licking the cat daytime and his ass at nite!!! downvote the brown trash. /r/rule34  
/r/rule34lol Because it sounds like OP was texting a girl he liked, and accidentally texted boss... then sent another text saying 'Omg, sorry that was my friend' to try and avoid embarrassment at work
Suuuure, your 'friend' OP ;)  Sounds like you had  in Mississippi Queen ramen form. Now that's what I call a Freudian slip. &gt;Frick.

Ladies and gentlemen, I giv you, doctor Elliot Reid My man radar is going off...lmao. This is part of our day to day lives, fellas. Should've banked them all for future use haha I'm guessing the downvotes come from people who know nothing about the subject. jump him and give him the tongue. will make a great first date story to your future children. just make sure, when you buy your first house, it has a different layout. Could be worse...At least you didn't follow through.
 This is just mean, but if beat the shit out of him That's the idea! oh my god no...I just gagged. I don't understand how any culture at all could view that as hygienic or cleanly... He either wanted to suck your dick or murder you. Either way you seem lucky to escape unscathed.  Problem solved, we did it reddit! LOL
RIP the men in this thread.  HAHAHA The origin of this was Canada? awe that's sad :(
how much you wanna bet a good percentage of them ended up with camel toe fetishes, though?  Ouch, on several levels! Me and my girlfriend were spooning a couple of months ago and she farted on my dick :( A) Rookie mistake, keep that to yourself.  B) Why are you still in contact with the Canadian girl, and why do you think she gives a shit Yeah, it's legit haha. 
You're not weird, go you! Too risky for me. One slip and oh god there's a lot more blood than just period blood around now. *I remember hating you for slamming my head into a pole*

*Riding on the metro-o-o-o-o...* How did that end?  I fell asleep about 30 seconds in. Isn't that the definition of pregnancy? ^Those Thank you. Is this still common practice? And what is considered long distance, I'm guessing out of state?  Yahoo helped me find Bing, but Bing redirected me to Wikipedia where they told me about this google business and I had to go back to yahoo to figure it out...its a viscous infinite regress I have one now and it's changed my life immeasurably. Never going back. I searched Google to figure out what you were talking about and....I wish I hadn't.  Good cover story. A comedian once said, "Unless you see the head crowning from the vagina, do not assume she is pregnant." Embarrassment is actually extremely endearing and can build a lot of trust.  Keep in touch with her. This is my deepest fear traveling on the Metro. And I still don't hold on the pole. Ayylmao That's the spirit. Yeaaahhh... That is one downside.

Also those times when the period blood likes to just treat your labia and ass as one interconnected tunnel system and shoot out the top on both sides when you're walking somewhere. u/smartiekisses  Now I'm over here like, "Fuck...does my girlfriend have a Reddit account? How drunk was I last night?" if it's useless, is it still a tool? It was my first car, and I was, but everyone came out okay and now I can look back and laugh. get over it dude Depends on the couple honestly so you could say it is the same as any hetero relationship. Sometimes you will get very princess females similarly to very princess males. Gay men do tend to have a type just like straight men tend to have a type. Could two gay men have a bro relationship just as much as a man and woman have a bro relationship? Absolutely. I am personally not gay, but a surprising amount of my friends are gay so maybe I just don't know I am gay? IDK, but one of my friends is a "bear" by terms and he has only dated what I would consider the highest of maintenance princess guys who one of my ex-girlfriends got into a catty fight over who was more feminine (Was weird and Margaritas were involved). One of my friends from college I didn't know was gay till last year until he told me he never had a relationship because he was never comfortable with himself until he went on some retreat and now is just the bro-ist of the gays who has an awesome b(r)o(y)friend and honestly besides the excited kissing on random occasions you would swear that they were straight. I also have a lesbian friend who may as well be a guy in all aspects of the way she acts and really is just one of the guys when she hangs out with us all. In the end I think it all just runs the range and you can see all sides from any relationship from that looks typical to well... that's just weird. 

I know that didn't really answer your question really, but hope that helps at least inform you a little bit that gay dudes really aren't any different from straight dudes.    10 years old. You ever drink Baileys from a shoe?
--------------------
"Where am I?" , "Gregs Place." Going through his post history and continually berating this guy just made both of you seem like losers. My EXACT thoughts.nice
 Did I say sexism? No. Quit putting words in my mouth. And just because men get squeamish about talking about tampons absolutely does not mean that nasty blood on a toilet is less disgusting to women.  You're not Canadian! Is that why I can feel my pulse when I masturbate? ^ These sounds like a bitch. I'm a boy What have you done to my innocence, OP?! I know too much D: Take it back! When I read what you said I figured the guy would end up being retarded or something. 

At least from your comment it sounds like you have really thought about it and regret what you said. 

I mean come on, it was fucking funny, just bad luck that the guy actually had down syndrome. Any other time it would have been funny as hell. 

But I have to say this is actually one of my favorite fuck ups.  Touch Yea I thought they were gonna shit themselves as well. I am slightly disappointed.  A friend of mine posted her knees in a bra on gonewild and got a shitload of comments and pm's.

^^^^She's ^^^^15. Deserves more upvotes. Good one! Honestly, buy more cookies? Why are you being all possessive and weird about them? You should... bing it? Handle it the same way someone like Jennifer Lawrence handles "falling at the Academy Awards." Make a joke about it next time you see him to show you don't take yourself too seriously and move on. (although I would advise you to read the situation as well. Don't force a joke in) If he's not a jerk, he won't care at all about this. It's okay it happens to everyone :P Sometimes I feel like a lot of the stories in here are better suited for /r/offmychest.  Ducking duck! No, this person does not work for IT. This person is in charge of the computer labs, they simply report problems to IT. Last I checked, the computers in all 18 schools are maintained by one person. My school alone has ~450 computers. If there were more people who were in IT, things would be maintained better. There is only one person in IT because the school district doesn't get enough funding from the state. Mrs. G doesn't work for IT; she sets up power points, makes sure that kids aren't doing bad things on the computers and reports issues to IT. Truth is *not* stranger than fiction. Watch:  

I was helping my colourless green ideas to sleep furiously when, for all the best reasons, I instead used my armpit hair as a pogo stick and got to the moons of Jupiter (all of them) that way. And then I ate the pyramids, but when I pooped them out they turned into eight tiny reindeer.  

See? That fiction was definitely stranger than any truth you're talking about.  

Also, you still have weird ideas about gender. Maybe it's a contraction between writer and witty? A writter.  I'd want to bring that up in a special/romantic way not some drunken stupor. So, yes it can be a fuck up. Invite him to go get some ice cream, and you should know what to do from there...good luck and Godspeed I'm sure she was barking mad. Yep, it seems to be universal with Latinos. We're Costa Rican and grew-up around Salvadorans, Mexicans, Nicaraguans, Colombians ... every one I know would react as though you'd just taken a massice crap on the family's honor and its ability to raise a child properly. Malcreado is what you'd be called, and it literally means "raised badly." Give them a call and tell them they left something of theirs at your house like a wallet or something tell them to send you an address so you can return it and report these fuckers  Huh. I tend to read the username AFTER I read the comments (if at all). Novell NetWare Client, Novell ZenWorks and Novell IPrint. NO ONE is accustomed to OTHER PEOPLE'S period blood. Seriously, no one. Something coming out of your own body and something that came out of someone else's body are two entirely different things. She knew the context I don't see why people get so fucking weird about it. 

She knew damn well you were talking about pledges and not having black people as slaves. And any black person takes the term "slave" personally they need to get a fucking therapist. 

Oh god, it's soooo offensive. Get the fuck over it, it was a joke. People are so god damn sensitive it makes me want to puke. 

 You wanna see my downstairs mix up?  Clearly the solution is to attach a fan to the pad powered by a chemical reaction with blood.  Fuck that bitch of a room-mate. I think that's fucking hilarious. 

Does every black person get so uptight about the term slave? They don't own the rights to the word and they aren't the only people in the world who have been slaves. 

It's not like you said, "yeah we have a bunch of niggers and I can't wait to make them my slaves."

She knew the context was about pledges so if she got all uptight then she needs to get the fuck over it.  Well, that's 10 minutes and ~5 mL of sperm I'll never get back. Ouch, quite a burn.  It's interesting to note that many East Asian cultures think of it the opposite way, that farting and burping signify contentment and comfort and it can be rude to seem indifferent to a hosts hospitality! Are there riding crops in afterlife? If so, I should be fine. Typically celery, carrots, potatoes...  The new stuff you'd put in a stew.   Breaking a bone in the winter is far better than any other time of year. The reason being is that it is cold, so you shouldn't itch as much. (I have broken 2 bones both in the winter. Rarely itched) Crutches are easy. During break one in the 3rd grade I played kickball on mine and did fantastic. And why is the Arts and Entertainment network (A&amp;E) servicing your injuries? That site made my antivirus wake up. DAYUM or throw tampons at you Ahh but down here in wellington we had a sign saying Wellywood. They should have put up a sign with the same suffix for Auckland. Wellington news is small. That's hilarious OP. Good on you for doing a good deed, but just let him keep the can next time People that are fat like to feel better about themselves by saying they're curvy. Somehow it makes it seem better. What they don't realize is they're beyond curvy. They're big fat fucks that need to get their life in order and get that shit solved before they die of a heart attack at the age of 31.  
  
Fat is not sexy. Fat is disgusting, unhealthy, and proof that you lack even the slightest bit of will power. I got so many tampons thrown at me Buffalo Custardbath?  You should look into it. A sociopath at the very least. ;) hey op, tmi, nobody gives a fuck you filthy little whore. Damn bro do you even McDonalds? I would bleed through the jacket too D: no matter what I did I had these relentless horrible periods Your post was removed for breaking the rules. You most likely broke rule #7, #10 or #11. If you believe this was in error, please message the mods with a link to your post.


*[I am a bot](/r/AutoModerator/comments/q11pu/what_is_automoderator/), and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2Ftifu) if you have any questions or concerns.* Still *chained* to the idea. This reminds me that I need to make some butter with my left over weed scraps. 

And yeah, if you didn't make the cookies never eat a whole one to start. 

I made some cookies one time and they tasted so good I ate **three**. Yeah, that was a bad fucking idea. 

I was so fucking high that every time I blinked I felt like my entire body was becoming more and more saturated in highness, or whatever. I just felt higher and higher and it wasn't stopping. 

I ended up taking a nap for 4 hours and I was still high when I woke up. 

The last time I made cookies I had to tell people to only eat 1/4 of them or I wouldn't give them the cookies.  Guaranteed that guy now thinks you're awesome. If you are cute he will have a crush. Guys love fart jokes. Boosh! Boosh! Stronger than a moose! Don't lock your door or we'll come through your rooftop... Bath sex? Hot tub sex? I'm ruining the joke, but before somebody hurts themselves, urine is *NOT* sterile^[[1](http://jcm.asm.org/content/52/3/871.abstract?sid=2ddbe134-33db-4d37-b3fe-101887fe5811)]. On top of that, bacteria live in everybody's urethras in low amounts, even when they're not suffering from a UTI ^[[2](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/2900903)]. You need to correct the title. TIFU by wiping shit all over myself. That's a positive way to look at it. Honest mistake buddy That's unhealthy for the vagina ):

I'm quickly realizing I'm a spoilsport when it comes to sex . . . I feel your pain something similar happen to me. Did this same thing. Ended up marrying that girl.

If only she'd turned out to be a pedo, how much easier my life would be. Plot Twist: The headphones were white back then. We don't serve your kind here. That is an Acura TL, 2005 model year.

And yes, it's FWD. Normally tough to break into a slide, especially considering it's a big Acura sedan, but on the ice it's just as slippery as a RWD. I don't understand why people willingly do this to themselves on purpose. My husband likes to eat things that are "endurance competition" hot and it's the same result every time, a day or two if misery moving through his entire digestive track. Last time it was him and a friend eating ghost peppers slices in the yard and throwing up and drooling everywhere, our neighbor came by to watch the spectacle and they offered him some and he said, "no thanks, I don't gave anything to prove."  
Why? It is as logical to me as eating broken glass "for the rush."  I'm at work fighting through that 2:30 feeling, and read title as "...giving ass to a stranger." 


The first paragraph still fit. Fucking Tits Fappin' Yes. Not ejecting safely does not destroy the card, it will destroy the file system though sometimes. Ayyy You know, this might be a great thing.  You have shown who you are early on.  Any friendship that ensues will be automatically more open than if this hadn't happened.  Mind you, I also think first dates should be with messy food - if you can't get messy with someone there is no point in having a relationship!  Seriously? You're an asshole dude I hope you didn't actually knock her out. Well , he probably thinks youre funny and not a stuck up bitch so , good for you ! Yes. Hovering was difficult to me before I learned how to squat properly. Not squat over the toilet, but during weightlifting. Now I'm all good but the likelihood of the toilet being that gross is shadowed by the amount of piss girls get everywhere by believing that the toilet is too dirty to sit on. It's like they're thinking "this toilet is so dirty I'm just gonna piss all over it." Thanks, bitch. The toilet was just cleaned by a janitor, who now has to clean up your urine because you can't logic well enough.  Fucking bitch, how dare she?! Yum. In other news, /r/glorp ? Bet you'd feel better if you devastated me afterwards. Yea. She told me she could handle it so I was like hell yea let's do it I love spicy!! We were very very wrong. Every MMO ever Well its only polite if that's what is on the menu. &gt;Guys will say anything to get a good bj ~~when they are drunk~~. A tit is a tit.



 I don't know anything about him now, unfortunately. I think the son moved away, and it's been quite a few years. I'm not religious, but I pray that dog got a better life than that.

I go to the animal shelter every week now, and try to give some of those poor dogs the love they deserve. Playing, walking, belly rubbing... anything to make their lives just a bit better.

I wish I could do more to help, but my parents won't let me have another dog (I'm off to uni next fall). I want to help animals, but I don't know what else to do, other than being a volunteer at my local shelter. We ended up buying a bunch of milk on our way home haha. Or you could have fun and have an interesting life. &gt;and this button shut down EVERY FUCKING COMPUTER

*every* computer?

we've found the guy who did 4/30, everyone! It was for the experience and also because I didn't know it was actually that spicy. Usually places that say their foods are extra spicy are not actually that bad so I just assumed I would be completely fine eating this.  You're never startled when people are where you don't expect them? Of course that is. I felt your pain for two days :( sorry you have to go through that all the time.  Where are you, Tokyo? LA?  We need to go through all the applications then each current mod will submit their top choices. Shouldn't be too much longer.

If you are chosen we will contact you. Maybe he won't remember and at least it wouldn't be ruined for him. Lulz. I'm not bothered. Reddit is a fickle bitch, no? And people don't think you're just being "hysterical" or that you have PMS. I agree with you! I'm way better in GTA 5 than you Kinda hard to apologize to an unconscious person lok this is quite timely for me as I received a time lapse camera for Christmas, recorded 1 time lapse that day and didn't do anything else with it until 28/1/2015 as I didn't know how to view the time lapse videos until then Came here expecting boob grab, got face smash.  Was not disappointed. My colon was most definitely defiled that night.  Aww, this actually turned out to be really sweet in the end.  Props to you for having accepting friends. Yeah, not only did you call the professor fat, now you're saying you're gonna bang her husband because she's infertile... Is it too late for you to take a Rufee? haha sorry How can the side collapse?  It holds in place through suction.  They aren't for everyone, but I love mine.   Ha! Good times It wasn't immediately. Like maybe he thought about it and realized it was a bad idea. Rule #9: Posts relating to causing the death of someone will be removed. I would pay money for that, if I could somehow be assured that the fan wouldn't nick my clit.  Rabbit looks huge. And does it crap everywhere? Had one stolen at school and one stolen at work...  If the town is small enough. .. Did you enjoy the ride? Yea right, Jamie. You just like your sister's ass. I think you're right actually. I think it's just extremely compatible with the computer. I went on my account and tried opening the app. I wasn't even logged in! I also don't have a dropbox account. Fuck it though, I deleted the fuck out of that app Next time I think i'm going to downgrade to a level 3-4. I think my bowels are still scarred from this experience.. I know! That brings up another bit of  cultural tension. Latinos, as far as I know, are just as strict about making noises while eating. No slurping, smacking, etc. Doing so at home would earn you Papi's-Look-Of-Death, doing so in public, gasp!, at a restaurant? The welts on your but and hamstrings just might bleed a little.

But, Asians revel in it, especially with noodles and soups. Where we think of it as eating like a barn animal, stooping to the level of pigs at a trough, Asians *encourage* it and insist that the food's flavor is enhanced by slurping. 

It's been very difficult, living in culturally diverse California. We were raised to despise it, and hearing someone slurp is like nails on chalkboard, but we have to just remind ourselves that their culture is the opposite and that they probably think we're rude for not properly enjoying the fruit of the chef's hard work!

Anyway, I'm probably boring you at this point. Sorry! No I'm kind of cold. My gym is pretty chilly. Run and coke That makes the story so much better. It's always better to have someone suffer with you Hey man you learned from your mistake, that's what matters. I have never felt so awkward in my life before. In our family there's so much shame built around sex and any subject surrounding it so the fact that she couldn't even say the complete word made it worse  Nah, hes a mini so he currently weighs 4 pounds. And not at all, litter boxed trained just like  a cat.  I know how my beef smells, bitch. I just let it slide because I'm a fucking gentleman. Now that would be funny. The sign being put up without anyone realising the double meaning would be pretty Auckwood. Why the fuck where people laughing if they could see this kid had down syndrome, I mean you fucked up, but I mean come. on. I used to use my comedic powers for evil in middle school. I would make fun of people just to get a laugh out of others. It makes you feel powerful. But I realized one day that this is not what comedy is all about. Comedy is about making everybody in the room get a laugh. You can't go wrong making fun of yourself. People enjoy the humility and the confidence. And nobody gets their feelings hurt. I put the milk in almost all the way and then i pour enough cereal to cover the top so I can finish it without getting soggy, rinse and repeat. If you do fart, than I am sure it sounds fabulous! I imagine gay farts to be like an angel's trumpet. I mean you guys really make sure that your rear pipe is pretty clean. Even better, this is why uniforms should be enforced throughout schools IMO. when implemented properly, they prevent OP's problem, especially with crafty parents such as your mother Man, does EVERYONE on reddit smoke marijuana? What about bleach?  Should he put bleach on his wounds, that should kill bacteria The time may be gone, but if you go on your local Craigslist I'm sure you can find someone willing to supply you a replacement 4mL of sperm and then some. Jacklyn Chan And then the teacher finds out she's actially now pregnant.  What exactly is the viscosity of infinite regress? I picture it as 5W-30, but I'm just spit-balling here. I always put milk in my cereal first and only when I turned 16 did I found out everyone else did it the other way. That said, I'm still rockin it milk first style Kiddens girls don't give the best ones, guys do. i mean, they should know exactly what to do down there. i'm straight so i may be talking right out of my ass but if there are any gay dudes reading this feel free to chime in on my theory. P.S. im severely intoxicated right now.  We were telling our other friends about the place and they want to try the "wtf" level too so I guess we're going back again. Roommate wants to suffer again (this time she's going to be prepared with a gallon of milk) but there is no way in hell i'm ever going through that ever again in this lifetime.  I only realised she was female when you pointed it out, even then I had to reread it. Well she could magically run aqway again... *for good*... ^(just saying) Exactly. Gay men don't fart or poop. Only glitter and anal happen back there.  http://m.imgur.com/a/naHML Doesn't matter had sex! In this case they were totally wrong and their analog for drunk piss was inaccurate, the stream was too broken. It was bad science all around.

 I have personally witnessed someone drunk piss on an electric fence and get knocked back/out and end up coveted in pee and in pain (it wasn't me so it was hilarious). I fully invite you to go test it yourself. Is no one going to state the obvious fact that you are 4weeks pregnant at the time of your missed period, and that means you conceived two weeks ago. Sex in the middle of your cycles, between one period and the next, is what gets you pregnant. So it really could be any of the three of them.

I vote you tell none of them because they all sound like crap, adoption might be an option if you can't afford the financial burden of a baby. 
Dont blame your doctor for your broken condom, YOU should have asked for an alternate birth control knowing you were sexually active with three guys.

Every choice will make you ask 'What If'. So write a pro con list based on your goals and finances wad it up throw it out and do what you want. YEP! Bleach is 100% effective at killing bacteria. I'll second that It all depends on whether op is hot  I AM Groot!
 Sounds like fun on the bun! Tell that to /r/gonewildcurvy, not to me. If OP posts the picture we would know. You know, for science. That's one of my biggest fears now. To get locked into an office toilet. It's right next to getting trapped in an elevator. okay grandpa "Sri" Lanka seems to be more likely.... I'm calling bullshit on this one  For the rest of your university life you will be known as the guy that took a rabbit to a lecture. Well achieved OP.  You fucking retard. It doesn't take a rocket scientist to figure out that if you pick up an animal that's holding a baby in its mouth that it might be startled and drop it. This wasn't an accident, this was a case of you not using your fucking brain. Abortion fucks up nothing, it doesn't affect your future ability to get pregnant or carry to term. The only thing it fucks are your emotions.

Just fyi and it feels so good! calls OP a douche-bag while calling his family trashy, gg.  Are you just leaving them around in public places? Or did someone physically go into your bag and take it from there? Probably a good idea. They might need someone to look after them  Last I heard the wife and Sister In law had locked themselves in a safe. OP promises to update when he gets the safe open.  Lol well girl but the idea still applies. 

My plan is to skulk in the back of the lecture hall for the rest of the semester and hope the professor never notices me.  Thats actually a built in feature, your car must have been made in South Africa. I always have to look up what fucshia is, just to remember it's woman's purple. Holidays will never be the same for you Well.  Nothing works. Cameras can't record to it.  On the contrary, I am fascinated by cultural norms especially where they differ.  I believe every person has to experience a completely foreign culture to become a well rounded adult.   Apt username. Missed the Dave Barry rule:  Never mention that a woman is pregnant unless there is an actual baby emerging from her at that moment!
 Your rabbit is adorable.  Your link asked me to download SEX.exe from bestkika.crashs.net.

And the website won't load. Good make sure you charge insurance prices when you give the adjustor your bill. Repeat, do not discard in KC

 Sacrifice a goat in her honor?

Perform the black sacrament to hire the Dark Brotherhood to assassinate everyone in the room?

Change your name, falsify your birth records, move to sicily and join the mafia? TLDR I looked at a picture of a butt....................... Ouch town... population you bro.

Honestly though, you at least deserved a swift kick in the nuts by his brother.  At the very least. Thank you based FatPeopleHate.  Thanks :)  Fixed, sorry! You should take the rabbit to every lecture now.! You like Bailey's? Mmm, salty cream and beige.  I'm calling shenanigans. How could two people who "had been walking about 10 feet behind" you: a) Go unnoticed by you as you ran by them, or b) Keep up with two running people as they walked?    That is a good way to get shot or stabbed. Just sayin. thats the sound of my cum dripping out of my fedora after i jack it into it Sounds like you have tried this on multiple occaisions. Yikes :/ Do you think that the owners would sell the german shepherd to you if you called them back and asked?  This is the kind of story that keeps me awake at night.  Who knows what's happening to that poor baby now.  Please try to get the dog back, OP. :-( You can't unsee it, boooy. I know a person who added water her entire life until she had breakfast with me :/  Some people don't even add liquid. What a Family should do, love each other unconditionally, isn't always what a family does, look at abusive parents. She's said her mom deliberately wrecked their car and hurt people, her mom and dad have no bearing on her life or future. I wouldn't want to be pregnant/single parent around that level of batshit crazy.

Sea bands dont work for everyone, open adoption isn't always an option and you probably aren't a single mom. You invite him over and he still doesn't get the hint.....you're gonna have to just be naked when he comes over next time.  Hopefully he'll figure it out   tifu Lol thanks :) 

Become the first rabbit to get a college degree haha You should have asked if they would be able to provide the 1.21 gigawatts needed for the DeLorean measuring instrument. Girls liking guys who are weirded out by blood, can I call that ironic?  Sounds like that dude could use a nice cup of chill coffee.  The reason why you can feel your pulse while you masturbate is because you're empty inside and violently masturbating to increasingly disturbing pornography is the only way you can feel anything anymore. The rest of the time your heart is as dead as your prospects of finding true happiness in life. Or at least that was the case for some guy I know. He's a friend. He goes to a different school, you wouldn't know him. Or talk to a counselor at planned parenthood Citizenship revoked. Oh man, that would have been epic. Is no one else wondering what occupation he has? As in why is one of his colleagues at work at 4 in the morning. By the sounds of that story they have an office job so I was thinking what kind of offices are open at 4 in the morning... peculiar.  In that case congrats :) I wish you a happy life together. BUS-TALITY Somehow I read this title as "TIFU by feeding my friend's dog hamster chocolate"

Aka special hamster chocolate which is fine for hamsters, but deadly for dogs  They have all worked fine for me, i just rechecked them and still have no problems. that bloke'll probably say...sell the pic..it'll fetch a good price....!! [Can OP Deliver?](http://i.imgur.com/V4OXNEb.jpg) And my bow &gt; but he didn't seem to be getting the hint. 

Just tell him

Hints rarely ever work Oh, stop it, [you!](http://38.media.tumblr.com/tumblr_lyfak24ejt1ro91bjo1_500.gif) hahahahaha im crying  If you would like to link to a subreddit, type it like this
/r/cringe This is FTL and their cloak wore off. So you knocked a girl out cold and left before checking on her/appologizing.

Fucking dickhead. Now you have to propose to him first.  I used to drive through a really rough neighborhood every day to class.  I'd always see these black dudes with pit bulls or rottweilers on about 3 ft of heavy gauge chain (like the kind you pull a truck with); and attached to the chain would be a heavy log that the dog had to drag as it walked.  I am a 5'5", 115lb white girl, so physically not much I could do except bawl my eyes out thinking about what those dogs' lives must be like.  People fucking suck. Get some rubber tubing and glue it to the bottom of the door I was thinking that it was some type of call center  Amerifags. Oh crap...I don't even use shower gel on my armpits and balls... The importance and weight of the particular day he proposes is nothing compared to the fact that he wants to marry you. Be happy, be delighted he wants to spend the rest of his life with you.  Is that your only concern? If I guesstimated he is 25 years old, that means for 25 years he has never ever seen anyone, not family, friend nor foe make themselves a bowl of cereal.... I think that's quite worrying. Your name suits your hygiene. Property law is property law. Contract law is contract law. The nonexistence of a contract does not mean there is no formation of a landlord-tenant relation under property law. You don't kick a guy in the nuts...Especially not for telling a joke... I have an honest serious question and hope my inquiry does not offend you.  Do you find the word "nigga" or "nigger" offensive?  Is there a difference to you between the spelling?  Would you be okay with the first word from a close friend? One time in Barnes and Noble I was drinking something from Jamba Juice, and as I reached the end of a shelf I burped really loud and blew out the gas (like exhaling smoke from a cigarette). Right as I was exhaling a pretty hot girl walks right into the "splash zone". Her eyes widened and she kept on walking. I know she heard the burp but didn't know what was going on until it was too late. 

I'm sorry girl in red blouse.  Only if she's good at it. Username is so relevant Water?

Who, what, where are these...animals??! 


 That's my purse! But did it get in the tip?
 And yet, the difference is that I don't care what someone on the internet thinks of me.

Try again. :^) Reddit: the healthy choice Is this Scott the Dick? Your pubes must look rad though ur trickle got you into a pickle Homo sapiens  Sshhhhhh....sometimes you have to leave them in their ignorance. 

OP clearly is traumatised. He's in a delicate state.  She willingly had sex knowing he was married, she could've turned him down and then the cheating/affair his wife finds out about wont be her problem. She potentially fucked over her job with that. SLUT! Human baby, not a price tag. Today not everyday. You are now obligated to take him every on campus. On a strange, related note, my grandfather had a voice very similar to the "uncola" guy's when I was a young boy (my mother's family is Caucasian).  He also tanned very well, wore sunglasses often, and had full lips.  We only saw him a few times when I was a kid.  I was convinced that the "uncola" guy was my grandfather for much of my young life. Sounds like you're having a very bad day. I hope it gets better OP. :) That whole slavery deal has been milked way too much. We live in a time where slavery isn't a thing anymore, and hell they can vote now and are all american citizens. I mean come on, yea it was pretty bad but there is no reason anyone should still get so butthurt over slavery unless they were themselves a slave Payment of rent is not required to form a landlord-tenant relationship. That doesn't mean you can't be somebody's little princess. [there are no girls on the internet](http://imgur.com/a/onNyp) I refuse to believe you. It's what's best for me right now.  Only two types of people put the milk in first. Psychopaths and cereal killers  I surrender my username to this ramen. I posted my ass there and got hundreds of upvotes. 10 feet could be an inaccurate estimate of space. 
Also, they could have come out from behind a car or something.  This is just gross. Not funny. I'd say 10 what's all this brown trash stuff... mind your own bloody businesses Yeah, card is probably dead, but the fault is physical. Poor big toe! :C You do realize that its in your bloodstream no matter what right?  HEY I'm a proud Amerifag, I have done a lot of embarrassing shit, but if something like that happened around where I'm from, well hell I think you'd get your ass kicked for sayin somethin like that That was seriously uncool of your teacher. The truth is hard to believe.  Ignorance is bliss :D "Everyone on [the internet] is male until proven female." FTFY &gt; but she does that thing with her mouth that I have 'come' to love so much.

Do elaborate. lol Which, according to women, also means they're guilty until proven innocent. Hey you're among good company brother  Plot twist, hot guy loves hot gas. Ha! That reminds me of a time she was staying with us. It was late and everyone was in bed but I couldn't sleep. I came out into the living room and opened the laptop to kill time. Not even 5 minutes later I heard a creek in the upstairs floorboards. I shined my flashlight up there and she was staring down at me. Told my friends about it and they all said she was trying to catch a glimpse of some spanking. My thoughts exactly. The next day she told my wife that she was mad at ME for shining a light at her!  I think this is stupid. She needs a harder shell.  Somehow you seem to think he would react in any way other than respecting you for this incident... &gt; That turn you on?  
Well it shouldn't because it's my side boob Are you male or female or other? What are you talking about? There was a agreement, which is best summarized as "You can live here for a week and make full use of the things in the house". Whether the agreement was written or oral, or explicit or implied is irrelevant because a court can and will find such an agreement existed.

Furthermore, a court can and will find the agreement was modified when the week was up and OP failed to notify his new live-in guest that he had to go. If she is going to toss you to the side over a movie choice, move along dude.  Much better options than her, especially if movie choice factors into whether or not a relationship should go forward.   Hahaha that's hilarious  You're reaching. Grapes, III too. It can still hold files like a USB and transfer them.  Haha yeah that would be a good idea. Being a broke college student and all makes us do desperate things. You are one filthy, sick son of a bitch. I gagged reading this you putrid fuck. That escalated quickley I am a male.  *she's naked? *

*No, this can't be. *

*She is waay out of my league.*

* This has to be a mistake, I'll have to get away or she'll think I'm a pervert.*

This could happen if he is beta as fuck, or awkward Well she did say it was her next door neighbor, so maybe they were just coming outside, or from the side of the house and op didn't noticed because she was looking back at her sister? Ha ditto OP, HVT is DTF. ETA? They say I have two weeks to live. I have requested to be buried with a side of butter  Last time I looked at options, yes it can be. Long distance is whatever the particular calling plan in question deems it to be. Serious: how did you train that dog commands in an hour? What the fuck is going on So wait.  You use flashlights in your own house?  Like, they're just handy?  

P.s. Yeah, she was totally trying to scope thaaaaat DIIIIIIIIICK! I have to admit I DO have relatively tangle-free hair. Also, I shave while my hair conditioner sets in. "reminisced to the sound of my urine swimming in dirt while Pompeii'ing hot sultry liqour piss all over these poor insects shelter" my goddamn sides Only some people will. I've tried this before once, and they refused. Adobe Flash CC, not flash player +/u/dogetipbot 1 laughter I can't be the only one here who actually hates milk in his cereal and uses water instead, right? [I have seen things!](http://imgur.com/a/59Z9G)
NSFW, obviously... Statically there's a greater possibility for OP to be female than gay. RemindMe!: 10 days


Thata how it works right?  Question is, are you going to stay with him or leave? LOL.  Berkshire, England.  Yeah, but if you guess  male you'll be right 7 times of 10. Today you found out your boss is the shit "TIFU by being an asshole."
 
FTFY Out of area code, which varies by area.  Some cities are one area code, some cities have a few.  Rural areas one area code and cover quite a bit of space.  

As other poster said, only applies to landlines though, i've never seen a cell that differentiated. If that hot dude is any cool he'll think it was hilarious. If he's turned off by a fart joke there's something wrong with him. Fat is what feminists want people to perceive as curvy... Touch my penis and give me kisses You need to scramble up all of the change you can and head back to the casino OP. It's the only way!  ^(Hope thing get better for you) Right? I feel really bad about never saying anything to her because she was one of my best friends, but really how do you point that out without sounding like a terrible person.

"Hey, uhm so like you know how you really like wearing leggings? Well for the past couple months now, whenever you wear them, you have like... really bad case of camel toe... Annnnnd whenever you walk into the room, guys make fun of you for it... Yeah... so like....heads up..."

I have no idea why they made so much fun of her though because she was really cute so... their loss right?  Don't you know how to use periods? You sound like a seven-year-old who's out of breath and suffers from ADHD. &gt; decided to let out my gas in a series of short, loud farts while exclaiming that I was 'jet powered'

Why, OP? LMAO Gay Your submission has been automatically removed because the title does not start with 'TIFU'. Please check the sidebar for information about tagging your submission properly.


*[I am a bot](/r/AutoModerator/comments/q11pu/what_is_automoderator/), and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2Ftifu) if you have any questions or concerns.* OP pls Gay He's from Quebec, that's like the least 'sorry' place in Canada. This is so wrong on many levels. For him to be a landlord, it requires intent of him paying rent and/or a long-term stay. He was helping a friend of a friend out and that person won't leave. Shit's hilarious when it happens.  Hot dogs work too.  Bring some fruits/vegetables as a snack (ex: banana, cucumber, etc) At least you're not talking about salvia and phlegm. That could have been a whole different story. Meh. Phone app. Always have it on me.  Gay You mean two weeks ago, you're four weeks pregnant at your first missed period but you conceive halfway between periods. Yeah, I probably did.  I love this Gay TL:DR wiped my ass with my new shirt and smelled like shit the rest of the day. Really gay Uber gay Call me callous, but if your intent was positive, you don't owe your professor anything.  She should probably get comfortable with her figure or hit the gym if being mistaken for pregnant bums her out. Except when they do there's a lot of guys into big women and saggy tits, and older women.  if you're into those three things you see tits in shapes and sizes that aren't too off from that. WOW I've read your comments before! Now I'll always remember you peeing out of your window. lol Why do people write this crap... so so gay I hope sterile. For the sake of humanity It's indeed an extra fort hair gel, I've tried it, but cheap ones and anything like that have ever happened with me. Looking at his feet Point is you're behavior in public will reflect on your friends and family, but OP admits he's not a full time douchebag, and it was just a one time mistake that he learned from, so I'll take it back. He just may not be such a bad guy after all. I cannot be the only one who noticed the dog in the picture looks like it has a body... For buried couch-treasure hunts! 

Nah. Phone app. Always have it on me.  Hmm.. possible No... I was scared they had rigged my harness on the ride.  Dude, you got yourself into this and the only way out is to call the parents and start over and basically leave town. 

if you can't be responsible, you have no reason to be out on your own doing stupid stuff like. 

Also, buying nothing but Red Bull and cigarettes will have you dead sooner rather than later. 

OP, please go home and get some help. We fuck up, dude. At least you took your blow like a man should. Who knows? Maybe you'll tell somebody else about this story and give them something to think about the next time they want to goof off. I also let it loose during my walks around the office (more so around the people I don't necessarily care for) but never in a million years did I think about the possibility of this happening. Next time, I'll re-think letting it all out at work - I'm sure my coworkers will thank you for that. I think OP's method works better, you can control the sogginess level of the cereal by pouring in only what you can finish in the next few minutes.  To everyone on that bus you just became "That American Asshole".  Ewha? Should have followed through like a champ and said "well I guess you should start cutting back on the burgers then". Sounds like they're both awkward.  Op trying to play off a paper cut on her tongue.. TIL women fart loudly around each other.  Before I cut it short, my long hair used to need 5 minutes of wetting (to get the water inside all the hair), 5 minutes shampooing, 10 minutes rinsing, 5 minutes to put the conditioner in, around 20-25 minutes of detangling (brushes broke, tears were shed), then 10 minutes of rinsing.

That's *before* I start on washing my body. Or shave.

As you can see, I'm traumatized. Maybe that's why I have very short hair now.

Anyway, enjoy the short showers! Hilarious.  Just hilarious  See you in /r/incest Sometimes there is just no stopping it. When I was a teenager I got into a pretty bad car accident. I was fine but the paramedics had to do their procedural stuff.... put a neck brace on, put me on a stretcher...cut off all my clothes... with the exception of my bra and underwear.  I was pissed they cut my clothes off cause i knew i was fine, but they wouldn't let me sit up.... And then there was blood....all over my underwear and thighs.  The paramedics were freaking out "where's the blood coming from?!" Over and over....I'm just laying there like...fuck....so this is happening. Then a paramedic (he had to be super cute, of course) leaned down to me and asked me quietly "are you menstruating?" I said yes and that was that.  In the ambulance and to the hospital.  It didn't matter what tampons I had in or pads or whatever. When your body is hit with that much force, things just...explode lol. fucking uterus.  No, I_r_serious &gt;I read posts often thinking it's a dude and then something is said and then I'm just curious to know, is this a dude or a gal.

50% of the world is female, most of whom are straight. Less than 1% of the world is gay men. Therefore it just makes sense to assume female because OP never said she was a guy. This isn't that hard.
 Half lionhead if I remember correctly. Not at all big and fluffy like a lionhead though. They are sisters and small. One has a blue eye and a brown eye You and the new hot guy will fall in love and you'll write a book about it titled, Gone With The Wind. Uhh not true at all.

Source: female TIL about empire dresses. For some reason I was picturing regal leader of a nation garb. Better than him saying he's never going to propose, eh? Haha, oddly enough, someone named Scott was the one who wrote the part about the Flux Capacitor.  This makes the whole thing even more amusing. O.P I'm right there with you. Decided to be healthy and go for a jog. I ended up tearing three ligaments in my knee and breaking a toe. It's back to the safe zone for me:Doritos and the couch. Is she hot? In the moment, any BJ that I'm getting is "the best BJ". At least so long as she isn't one of those dumb girls that think using teeth is enjoyable. I don't get mad, and I totally agree. Huh, never seen that before. That hurts to read. Never underestimate the power of up your anus. I am quite flattered, thank you! Unsubbing is always an option, it'll be located in the side bar right [here](http://i.imgur.com/EV9FPRx.png) I feel like I can smell what you're describing and it's not pleasant.  Plus the fact that I can never remembering having to fart whilst running. I even have to stop walking if I feel a fart coming because the motion disrupts it. by this logic if I let someone crash on my couch I have to give them 30 days notice to get out.  The original agreement was a week.  OP went further and let him stay and gave him options.  He has gone above and beyond.  Smelly Bum is not a tenant, he has no rights to stay at that house.  ^ Thems Ohh fuck, I haven't read that! ...I don't get it. Well... the super glue was going a little far. But wow, he left you stranded in the mountains? That's actually scary. Which is why you should always have your phone on you. 

Also, who's car was it? Yeah, by eating tooo much.  Well you have to *have* sex in the first place to do it wrong Haha I hear ya. Live and learn, right? Keep on keeping on man So many people shit themselves at work on this sub its fucking filthy. I have a whole box worth I just bought you can lick all day To be honest, not trailing blood over Walmart probably made you more out of place than trailing blood would have. Fake. Girls don't fart. &gt; series of short, loud farts while exclaiming that I was 'jet powered'


This story kind of had the same ending as the challenger, it blew up in someones face...  She may have been before she plucked her eyebrows to the point they never grow back. She draws them on now. I told her she should tattoo them on like a Chicana.  Who hasn't seen Back To The Future yet and what are you doing here letting OP explain the joke to you?

GO WATCH ONE THE GREATEST MOVIES EVER, YOU SIMPLE BASTARDS! Fuck Salt! The plot stiffens.  Nevermind Cats always know best when deciding where they want to nuture their young. Sad story :(  I think she might be joking. Something along those lines happened to me and my fiance last year.  We had moved into a new neighborhood and been doing a lot of gardening outside cleaning up the yard.  This black cat would come visit us while we were outside and seemed very friendly and sweet.  It seemed to us that it must be someones lost cat because it was so natural and friendly around humans, but it didn't have a collar or anything.  

This cat felt very malnourished and skinny, so we fed it every couple days that we were outside, all the while asking our neighbors if they knew anything about it, since it seemed to hang around our street all the time.  We didn't get any answers and considered what to do about it since we couldn't take it in ourselves since I was allergic.

Eventually, a real estate agent in the area had been showing a house and noticed the cat and said that she worked with finding animals homes, so we began following up her to get this cat a nice home.  Right about the same time, we learned from someone else that the cat belonged to a neighbor down the street that didn't take really good care of their pets.  They had a golden retriever that was being cared for by another neighbor and they left dog food outside as food for this black cat.  

Once we found this out, we felt that we were overstepping ourselves feeding and taking care of this cat when it belonged to someone else, and we didn't follow up with the real estate agent to find a home.  

A few months later, the owners finally came by our house and asked if we were still feeding the cat and whether or not we had taken it for adoption.  I guess they had found out what we had been doing but never came to talk to us.  We said we hadn't seen the cat in a long time and that we stopped feeding it when we found out it was theirs.  They insisted that it was ok if we took it for adoption and they wouldn't get mad, they just wanted to know what happened to it.  

We honestly hadn't seen the cat in a long time and since it seemed entirely dependent on humans to survive, we suspect it may have either starved or been eaten by coyotes since we live near the hills.  

It was such a sweet and loving cat and we should have just found it a new home.   Moral of the story, never assume someone is pregnant, even when they say they are having a daughter/son.  Wow, I may never even assume someone is pregnant when they say they are 8 months pregnant. Don't put the carriage before the house, the milk before the cereal, or the condom before insertion.

3 Facts of life. TI(F)U by jogging with my sister New post  "TIFU by pissing in my beer bottle before my sibling got home" Theres a thin line between awesome prank and your a fucking lunatic. It was his car. Leaving me wasn't that bad, kinda an experience I guess. Make the best of the situation. 


It kinda got scary... Except this isn't a guy who robbed a purse from a woman, this is a guy who told a joke and a man took offense.  You think it is okay as a man to kick a guy in the nuts? [How I picture you](http://iruntheinternet.com/03367) I feel like I can smell what you're describing and it's not pleasant.  OP delivers.  Here is a screenshot of one of my boss' several facepalming emails once he realized everything.

http://imgur.com/fKF2tOL Did I cross that line? Thank you for those kind words. That is very good advice = ^ . ^ = That's not what abbreviation means. The "frick" now makes me imagine that Elliot Reid wrote this... If this is real, you uh, you made me viscerally cringe.  

&gt; little 18 y-o Asian girls head and smashed it into the pole 

Yeah, whoa. It actually made me think of my wife who told me almost the exact same thing after I did it. I should start a new TIFU titled " embarrassing my wife and showing her what a douche I can be. No worries, the advice is actually sage.  Ironically, I was on the pill for many years before I was in a situation where having children wasn't irresponsible. I found that I developed a benign liver tumour as a result of being on the pill ( a rare but not unheard of complication).

I shouldn't have been doing IVF at all because it uses higher doses of the same hormones to trigger super-ovulation as the hormones that were causing the tumour.

Suppressing your periods is usually done hormonally using the exact same hormones. thanks for the fap material :P Now you know why chemistry professors tell you to wash before you go. HEAT BREAK! &gt; "So! Have you guys engaged in pre - marital sex?" 

&gt; his family knew me and Jay used to hangout but hookup? I'm not too sure.

Are you being serious?     

6 months ago you fucked up by hooking up with the brother of a dude who you went down easy for and thought for a moment his family isn't completely laughing at you and it's going to end well Given less than 5% of people are homosexual then it's a fair assumption.

 Of all the things that have never happened, this has never happened the most.  the idea of marriage should never be a surprise, it should be discussed and agreed upon, the proposal however that should be a surprise.  Yeah, sometimes you want a big skittle. Exactly where OP wasn't. Sounds like an awesome "how we met" story to me... But....the point is to have at least partially soggy cereal. Sooo much better that way. Have you ever tried sticking an alcohol saturated tampon up your bum? I heard it stings a bit but feels real nice afterwards... You didn't mention that, if you zeroed out the card then do some tests on it:

http://crystalmark.info/software/CrystalDiskMark/index-e.html This reminded me of [this](http://youtu.be/DtE2ZpAiK8Q) scene from The Inbetweeners. And salt water is even better. Hey, good for you, man. A lot of people would just find it awkward/embarrassing, but if you feel bad about it and have decided to not to accidentally-offend anyone you don't know in a similar situation, then don't worry about it, you're a good person willing to learn from their mistakes. 7 minutes exactly, every time? But it is the sorriest place in Canada. Fuck man.. You didn't fuck up by jogging with your sister, you fucked up by having bad situational awareness.  I only know it as a Cartoon character.
LollyPoopDeck Stories like this make me think about just the normal mundane things I do everyday and wonder if I am doing something very basic, completely incorrectly. 

We need a sub, similar to prolifetips only it needs to be something like basiclifeconcepts. Oh man, can't you call them and say that your other dog (or you can say son - even if you don't have one) bonded with her so much in the short amount of time that you'd like to buy her from them.  These are the type of people who don't give a shit about the dog and haven't invested any money into her, so might take something like $50 and think they won the lottery.  That story makes me Grimus. For me, it goes like this: 1 minute wetting (I have smooth straight hair so all I have to do is drown the scalp), 1.5 minute shampooing, 1.5 minute rinsing, 30 seconds applying conditioner, 6 minutes conditioner soak (as the bottle recommends - as said, I shave in that period), 1 minute second rinsing. Then 10 minutes to wash myself after that. So, in average, a grand total of 21.5 minutes. &gt; it just seemed like a gimmick for coco pops turning milk chocolaty if you were weird and tried milk with them."

Like Hot Dr. Pepper! TLDR
 Your submission has been automatically removed because the title does not start with 'TIFU'. Please check the sidebar for information about tagging your submission properly.


*[I am a bot](/r/AutoModerator/comments/q11pu/what_is_automoderator/), and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2Ftifu) if you have any questions or concerns.* It's still like a 63/36% split, so obviously it makes more sense for OP to be female than to be a gay male (which makes up like 1% of the male population). It's not like it's 90/10 or anything. Knowing the destination won't spoil the journey. I think he wanted to have his dick sucked and then murder OP.   This actually made me happy, I was dreading how this would end. I was scared that your rabbit broke free and escaped and now he's lost, or that he got eaten by a dog or something. I know it must have been embarrassing, but at least your rabbit is OK! That's like a textbook example of an internet pedo.  ... Couldn't have said it any better. That was a terrible joke, quit clowning around
 He should pee more careful next time.  Well that ruined dinner for me, thanks. You are both wrong, you stick it in his or her anus. That's okay, I'm making more as we speak. His sister is a real bitch.  That's rude. Muslims enslaved white people for centuries. They sometimes waged war against European countries just so they could get new slaves. In fact, they enslaved so many of them that the word "slave" is derived from the ethnic group of white people who were regularly enslaved by Muslims. I mean just using the word 'slave' is racist, because it implies everyone of that ethnic group is good for nothing except being a slave.

If it isn't racist for a Muslim to tell a white person "I'm excited to have slaves", then you are a hypocrite. Who is he fucking with that dick? Do the tree ladies like thorns in their pussies? Go fck w 4chan, circle jerkin clown. What the hell is "shower gel?" Use less complicated words.... Like "soap" Class B teacher ... Have you been kicked in the nuts too often or something?

I didn't realize it was such a sore subject for you.  It's more of a figure of speech, a joke, but the man was essentially a boy with downs.  Pretty scummy shit.  Ipso facto... low blows may be necessary. I still can't tell if OP is guy or girl.. 
Guy - Typical
Girl - What a mouth  Anybody else get hungry reading this? Exactly! I wouldn't mind something that happens to me and came out of my own body oh wait I don't think I read the rest of the context. Someone else's blood or their own? 60 percent of the time, it works every time.  I think the fact that his sister asked you that is to fuck with you.  forget the spicy food, if you drink a gallon of milk you'll be throwing up anyway Nope right out of that family.  You'll never find peace with that sibling situation, especially the bitch ass sister. Being the good guy is a tricky business eh... Thanks a lot. You didn't really answer my question, but after reading it I think your reply is better than that since there are so many variables. 

I have only one gay friend but for some reason I've never met or been introduced to his boyfriend and since I usually never talk about emotional/relationship/feelings  stuff with anyone I figured it would probably be weird to ask him... 

Also that margaritas story was awesome :D  