**Short answer:** You, and everyone around you, will die.

**Long answer:** Different things will happen if you mean the black hole has the *mass* of a coin, or if it has the *radius.* The equation of a black hole is really simple: 

    Radius = 2 (Gravitational Constant) (Mass) / (Speed of light)^2

Suppose a nickel in your pocket magically collapsed into a black hole. A US nickel has a mass of 5 grams. This black hole would have a radius of 10^-30 meters. For comparison, an atom is about 10^-10 meters. If atoms were made of atoms, this black hole would be the size of the micro-atom that makes up the milli-atoms that makes up real atoms. Basically, it's unimaginably small.

Such a small black hole would have a similarly unimaginably short lifetime to decay by Hawking radiation- it would radiate away what little mass it has in 10^-23 seconds. This 5 grams of mass will be converted to 450 teraJoules of energy, which is comparable to the detonation of about 100,000 tonnes of TNT, and will produce an explosion three times bigger than the atomic bombs dropped on Hiroshima and Nagasaki *combined.* In this case, you die.

Of course, if the black hole has the radius of a common coin, then it will be considerably more massive. A nickel, again, has a radius of about 10 mm. This black hole has a mass of 10^24 kilograms - slightly bigger than the mass of the earth. Its surface gravity is a billion billion times greater than earth's. If it is in your pocket, you will find yourself being drawn towards the black hole at breakneck speeds. Literally *breakneck*. The difference between your chin and your teeth is about ten trillion g's of acceleration. You'll cross the event horizon before you even realize what's happening. The black hole is now a dominant gravitational piece of the earth-moon-black hole of death system. If you watch sci-fi movies a lot, you might think that the black hole sinks towards the center of the planet and will consume it from the inside out. In actuality, the *earth* will also move up onto the black hole, and begin to bob around as [if it was orbiting the black hole](https://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/0/0e/Orbit5.gif), all while having swaths of mass eaten with each pass. The bulk of the planet earth is consumed after some time, leaving a scattered disk of hot dust and rock in a tight orbit where the earth once was. The black hole grows slowly during this time, eventually doubling its mass by the time it's done feeding. 

The effects on the solar system are awesome, but moreso in the Biblical sense of "awesome", which more closely means terrifying. The moon's orbit is now highly elliptical. Tidal forces from the black hole could disrupt the asteroid belt, sending rocks careening through the solar system - bombardment and impacts may become commonplace for the next few million years. The planets are slightly perturbed, but they stay approximately on the same orbit. The black hole we used to call earth will now continue on orbiting the sun, in the earth's place. 

In this case, you also die. 

edit: I got some math wrong and rewrote most of this. Thanks to the commenters for catching my mistakes.  This is by far the most enjoyable thing I read all day.  Thanks. [deleted] His reading and comprehension of /u/VeryLittle 's answer was enjoyable, not the event itself. After I read these things, I can't help feeling like at any moment, life is going to end and gravity will stop and I'm gonna just die. Just think; if you were alive to see it happen, it would be the most exciting thing that you have or ever will see again! So you'd have that going for you. I like that amid your almost instantaneous demise you're still concerned about gravity stopping. This is very altruistic of you, especially since no intelligent life will remain to enjoy it, and of course gravity doesn't think about stuff. Still, I have good news for you - it won't stop - it will now just be caused by the black hole instead of the earth. You will still be ripped apart as you are sucked into the black hole in an almost unimaginably small amount of time, but gravity will still be there, safe and sound, in the spot where earth used to be. [deleted] [deleted] This whole scenario depends on concentrations of mass or energy billions of times greater than humanity can put to work in a particle accelerator.

[The amount of energy in a single beam is about 350MJ](http://lhc-machine-outreach.web.cern.ch/lhc-machine-outreach/beam.htm). Enough to cause lots of damage to the machine itself if things go wrong, but not much else. According to that page, 80kg of TNT instead of 100,000 in the answer above.


 You should read about [gamma-ray bursts](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gamma-ray_burst). Those for me are the ultimate "yeah, I can die instantly at any time and never know about it". 

Because if you think about it, that's how aneurysms work and they're fairly common. Why not both? Try to imagine all life as you know it stopping instantaneously and every molecule in your body exploding at the speed of light. Much more preferable than the slow motion wilting into infirmery that many of us will experience, yah? It's basically Katamari Damacy, which is pretty damn fun if you ask me. I highly recommend https://what-if.xkcd.com/

Its done by the same guy who draws xkcd comics and frequently tackles the more absurd questions with a degree of scientific rigour and a bit of educated guessing. &gt; the entire planet is consumed in minutes

Would the Earth really be consumed in minutes?  We're trying to fit the entire Earth into a nickle.  Wouldn't there be a bottle neck as the matter collides and releases x-rays which impact the matter above and the radiation pressure hinders the infalling matter?  I'm not saying the Earth wouldn't be destroyed.  Even on the opposite side of the planet, the acceleration would still be nearly 50 g, but I would think more of an accretion disk would form.  To be consumed, you need to hit the hole, otherwise you just go in orbit. That's a fair point. I do expect a large disk to form, but there is the distinct difference between other systems that we study or simulate; the entire earth is initially at rest with respect to the black hole. When accretion disks form in space, for example from a companion, that material already has a considerable amount of angular momentum before it gets heated by the disk. 

I'm not sure how the magnitude of the radiation pressure would compare to the force of gravity and I honestly have no real sense for the energy considerations of this problem or size of the resulting disk. 

Edit: And now that I've put some more thought into I've rewritten my post and fixed a few gross math errors. 
 So if the black hole was the radius of a nickel then how long would it take to decay due to Hawkins radiation? A long, long, long time.

I'll look up [the formula](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hawking_radiation#Black_hole_evaporation) and give you a number: it's about 10^58 years. And if you're an idiot like me who has no sense of how long 10^58 years is: consider this. The universe is about 10^10 years old. This is the time equivalent of comparing a proton to the sun.  I like how every one of your explanations puts concepts I have no real comprehension of in terms I can easily understand. It makes me feel smart without having to actually get smarter. Actually, I would argue that having what amounts to a good set of cognitive "tools" like "take large magnitudes and construct a size analogy to make them easier to understand" are a large part of what we perceive as intelligence.


So you did get a little smarter just now! George Lakoff's theory of abstract cognition is basically a slightly more testable statement of your comment. And I'm convinced he's on to something.

Some people get hung up on the term he constructs for that theory, though: "metaphor" has a pre-existing literary meaning, and he builds a cog-sci definition that is only vaguely similar.  "a set of cognitive 'tools' like 'take large magnitudes and construct a size analogy to make them easier to understand"' is both a pretty good definition, and a pretty good example, of his notion of "metaphors". The study of cognitive learning is awesome. Google cognitive schema. It's basically the same as Lakoff's metaphors. Everything we know and understand is stored in a schema, an abstract representation. It's easy to learn about new things when we have a pre-existing schema that can be related to this new idea, and a new schema is formed easily by copying lots of things from the old schema. For example, how the heck do we even begin to understand the number 10^(58)? We have no pre-existing schema to help us understand this abstract concept. But wait, u/VeryLittle found one that is similar! It's the same as a ratio comparing a proton to the sun. Metaphor! Pre-existing schema! We have made a mental connection, and now we understand this new concept. 

It's hard to learn when we have to build a mental representation for some abstract idea for which there is no metaphor, or if your teacher is not giving you one. For example, my first calculus professor back in college. "He just gave me the exact mathematical definition of an integral, but I still have no freaking clue what it is." (I have since discovered some effective metaphors for learning advanced mathematical concepts so I understand much better now.)

If you want to be a more effective teacher (or learner!), find clever metaphors for everything!

Edit. Warning: utilizing pre-existing schemata/metaphors for everything also tends to lead to prejudiced (incorrect) understandings. Once you have your metaphor, go back into the details and understand the ways in which your new concept is different from the one you're comparing it to. Wait I always thought that is what metaphors are, and thought that everyone agreed. What is the common understanding of them, then?  Unfortunately, that tiny amount of new smartness will quickly be lost as Hawking radiation. [deleted] A proton has a radius of .000 000 000 000 85 millimetres, a size there's no chance you can understand. 

If your lifetime was the thickness of one proton, a credit card would be 73 times the age of the universe.

There's no way to make numbers that large understandable.  True, but this can help

http://htwins.net/scale2/c.swf?path=http://htwins.net/scale2/scale_2.swf?bordercolor=white I prefer to refer to it by comparing the lifespan of a housefly to that of every human who has ever lived, combined, consecutively.  Give or take a millennium. It's still hard to comprehend the size of the sun for me. The Earth feels so big already. Moving down the line to more significant idiots (me), I'm assuming there's some scale I'm not familiar being used?  I'm missing something because it seems like the universe is more than 1010 years old and the mass of Jupiter seems like it's more than 1027 kilograms. 

Edit: Holy shit guys I get it. I couldn't see the exponents on mobile. 

You're saying atoms aren't 10 meters?  Everything I know is wrong!!! Those are exponents.

10\^10

and

10\^27

They probably don't format right on mobile. [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] You can't see exponentiation. 

10\*\*58

10,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000 years.

10\*\*27 kg

1,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000 kilograms.  Or .....grams. I don't think there's an SI unit for that. Might be a 1 harpogram. [10^27 would be harpigram. Harpogram would be 10^*-*27](http://dictionary.reference.com/browse/si+prefix). But those are non-canonical prefixes. [deleted] [deleted] The difference between the time lenghts is on the order of 10^48.

Diameter of proton is 0.8 fm and diameter of sun is 10^24 fm, so actually a proton is a lot more like the sun than the current age of the universe is compared to the total age of that black hole.

The milky way is 10^35 fm which makes it a bit more extreme, but still not close enough. The local cluster pushes this up to 10^37 fm. The Laikinea super cluster is on the order 10^39, still far away. Finally the *whole observable universe* has a radius of 10^41 fm, the difference is still 10,000,000 times smaller!

Lets try something smaller than the proton. A photon is about 0.5 fm (in the most open definition of size), not smalll enough. The plank distance is quite small, on the order of 10^-35 m, or 10^-20 fm which actually overshoots. The things that are between the size of a photon and the planks scale are mostly strings or such.

In short, it's a lot of time, more than we could even grasp at. If you consider the mass of the proton and earth, rather than their diameter, [it works out](https://www.google.be/webhp?sourceid=chrome-instant&amp;ion=1&amp;espv=2&amp;es_th=1&amp;ie=UTF-8#safe=off&amp;q=solar+mass+%2F+proton+mass). [deleted] The powers thing blows my mind.  10^20 only seems like its twice as big as 10^10 (the age of the Earth), but its 10 billion times longer.   And its still miles away from 10^58. "Miles away" does not do it justice, 10^20 compared to 10^58 is like comparing the diameter of a atom nucleus to the distance to the Andromeda galaxy. It is for all realistic purposes zero. Think about an old-school computer monitor, one of the heavy CRT ones. Are your arms hurting yet? Don't lie to me. Those relics weighed 10^1 kg apiece.

Now imagine you had a billion of those. No, wait, that's too much work. Imagine you had a nation of grad students. You tell them you got a grant to build ten scale models of the Great Pyramid of Giza. No, we can't do it indoors. Get outside and start stacking. That's 10^10 kg of good old-fashioned  ancient (the 80's *were* ancient, get over it) Egyptian legacy right there. Definitely worth a mention or two in *some* scholarly publication, but we're not done yet.

We're taking this into space. Tell NASA to quit fiddling around with probes and build me some space tractors. We've got 10^19 kg to move into orbit. I've got bigger academic ambitions than publication in a physics journal. Oh, and the Nobel medal? Too tacky. I want rings. Saturn rings. We'll take those CRT pyramids and make rings for planet Earth.

What? Of course I know we only have 10^10 kg on hand! Grad students, always telling me stuff I already know. Why don't you make yourself useful and write a grant proposal for 10^9 more orders? That will get us up to 10^19. You'd better get started. Even if a shipment of 10 CRT pyramids arrives every second, it will take 31 years to collect them all.

Abracadabra, Banach-Tarski, we're done here. Glorious CRT rings of Saturn right in my back yard. I love how they weird out whenever the solar wind catches them just right.

Now here's what we're gonna do next. I'm gonna take three of those rings (mathemagic, shut up) and unravel them. We're gonna line them up all X-Y-Z-axis, first octant (shut up, it's a word) style. Each CRT has a depth of 0.4 meters, space them out by 10 cm, coldly violate significant digits, and we've got ourselves the skeleton framework of a cube 10^18 meters to a side. *Remember now, we have 10^19 kg of CRT monitor in each axial arm, but each CRT masses 10^1 kg*. How long is 10^18 meters? Let me abuse significant digits a little more. I put a newborn baby on the other side of that arm. Flick that flashlight at him. His 100^th birthday will reach him before the light does.

Pick your jaw up off the ground. We've got work to do. ***Bam*** every single ant on Earth is now astronaut sized, and we've given them all Star Trek style transporters and matter replicators along with a burning desire to fill in the remaining 10^54 CRT monitors to complete a solid cube of obsolescence. Yes, all 10^15 of them. Even the fire ants. Don't ask how we managed to do that; you won't like the answer. Besides, they work fast. Each one can replicate and place one monitor in position in just one attosecond, which is fairly convenient, since we can't measure time any more finely than that using current technology. At that rate, they'll exhaust all the matter in the observable universe in 320 billion years, with an estimated completion time of 32 trillion years.

***If you are a career physicist and are not yet offended by how grievously I have violated the laws of physics, find a universal frame of reference and hold on tight.***

For your convenience (and safety), I have suspended the local passage of time. Why? Because now we have a closely packed cubic array of CRT monitors 100 lightyears on a side, which masses 10^57 kg. It's taken us 320 trillion years to build, using 100,000 times the mass of the observable universe. We passed the Chandrasekhar limit in the first millisecond of construction.

We need ten of those to get to 10^58 kg. [deleted] All of this has been excellent reading.  I had no idea about Hawkin's radiation or accretion disks.  Great sub. Wow,  I always thought the decay of a black hole was something that happens.   From this,  it seems that for all practical purposes,  real black holes are actually permanent.  [deleted] When talking about things like black holes the scales which you measure them against are vastly different. From a human stand point, with a life span of a mere 80 years, they are practically permanent. Long after planets and stars have gone away, blackholes will remain. After this many years super galaxy mass black holes will finally go away:

     10^100 yrs
Yet an abundance of photons and such will still remain. The universe will have to add another 55 zeroes to its age exponent before it basically dies:

    10^100000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000 yrs What does an empty universe look like? According to the heat death theory the universe wouldn't truly be empty. Rather, it will lack entropy/disorder/heat. 

Think of the universe like a pond. The big bang was like dropping a massive bolder into it. There is a huge splash, tons of movement. Immediately after it bubbles form everywhere, but quickly dissipate. Giant waves emanate out, but grow smaller in time. As time drags on less and less things happen. After a relatively long period of time, (assuming there's no wind) eventually the pond settles to being glass still. No longer will anything in it change. That is the equivalent of heat death. 

In the universe all matter will have moved further and further away from everything else. Every thing that has energy will slowly lose it as it comes to an equilibrium, until even heat/thermal energy has disappeared. And once that happens, the universe will cease changing. Almost as though it's frozen in time like a still glass pond. I love this analogy.

&gt;Almost as though it's frozen in time

I've always understood that the universe would be frozen in time. If there's no entropy, there is no change in relationships between things, so there is no time. Am it the only one who finds that theory of the end of the universe to be the most horrifying.  
Complete, utter stillness. Where does all the energy go in a heat death scenario? With that theory, do things get far enough apart that gravity no longer has any affect on them? I just always assumed that once things stopped being pushed out by their initial momentum from the big bang, gravity would start to pull everything back together as things collided and grew overtime.  Aren't photons stable unless they interact with matter? So that theoretically any out there after all subatomic particles with mass decay would continue forever? Sure but the accelerating expansion of the universe means they will never find another particle or photon  Yes. 

Any stellar black hole will gain orders of magnitude more mass due to the cosmic background radiation being absorbed than it does lose due to hawking radiation. But eventually...after all background radiation is gone and the universe is expanded enough,  black holes will eventually start to die...and take another incomprehensible amount of time. On mobile it's coming across as 1058 years.  Is that supposed to read 10 to the 58th power years? 2.568038e+58 seconds according to http://xaonon.dyndns.org/hawking/

Which is 8.137  10^50 years according to Google.  Hawking radiation. 10^27 kg is within 3 orders of magnitude of one solar mass, which is the example calculation on wikipedia. 

https://upload.wikimedia.org/math/2/4/b/24b7c018b8a241ce4536ac7231df2e52.png

Which is a really long time. 

Since it relates to the cube of the mass, you can multiply that time but the cube of the mass ratios to get your answer, which is about 10^64 seconds. Which is still a really long time.  So this article states that they are trying to detect miniature blackholes at the LHC.  Could someone explain this, and also how this wouldn't kill us all if one was detected? 

http://m.phys.org/news/2015-03-mini-black-holes-lhc-parallel.html The nickel that weighs 5g breaks down almost instantly and gives off that 35,000 tons of TNT explosion.

The black holes they are trying to create would have no where near that much mass.  I would assume they are a couple protons (or other particles) colliding, which would have the mass of a few atoms, at most, and would dissipate even faster.  Maybe you have an explosion equal to .00001g of TNT, instead? I "think" that the black holes they are trying to detect are so small in mass that no catasrophic events would occur...at least I think I read that somewhere..but I'm also wondering if a black hole that small got a hold of a little matter, if it could "outrun" Hawkins radiation and become a problem A black hole with a radius of 10^-30 meters (nickel mass) radiating away at 10^-23 , I'd imagine it'd have to ingest *a lot* in a short period of time to compensate. I'd tend to think (without the math to back it up) complete dissipation as Hawking radiation would be inevitable unless it formed in the midst of a sizeable sample of neutron star density matter. If my limited knowledge of the subject is still true, it would be so small that it would suck up a very tiny bit of matter, like a single electron, and then vanish from existence. Black holes of incredibly tiny mass die incredibly quickly. The event horizon of such a black hole is so tiny as to be incapable of aquiring any mass. It is, iirc, less than the radius of an atomic nuclei. It would also look pretty neat if you consider that the black hole is appearing on the surface of the Earth, 1 Earth's radius away from the center, traveling at around 1,000 miles per hour.

That would probably make for some pretty wicked slingshot effects. why? slingshot only gives you velocity gain from the orbital speed of the body you slingshot around. and that would probably stay the same as earth's.

you could use oberth better, but that's it, no? &gt;the entire earth is initially at rest with respect to the black hole

What about the angular momentum of the Earth? Is it negligible for this question? I don't think it would be negligible. Have you see how when a spinning figure skater speeds up when they pull their arms in? The mass of the earth should speed up its rotation considerably as it gets closer to the black hole. The earth is considered at rest relative to the black hole in OPs scenario as it's assumed the black hole would be created on the earth and thus have the same momentum.

The same way we don't feel the earth careening through space as because we're moving with it. &gt;That's a fair point. I do expect a large disk to form, but there is the distinct difference between other systems that we study or simulate; the entire earth is initially at rest with respect to the black hole.

Are we assuming the nickel is co-moving with the Earth's rotation? How many nickles do you have in your pocket that aren't comoving with the earth? Let's say the black hole forms at the surface along the equator... wouldn't that give the earth a lot of angular momentum and cause a large amount of mass to be flung off?

Is that calculable? Wait, you're saying a black hole with a mass slightly higher than the Earth itself, in New York City, will pull with roughly 50 g of acceleration on objects in Australia?

If the mass of the new celestial body is only slightly more than double the original mass, why is it not adding only 0.5 g (it is twice as far away as the center of the Earth, after all)?

This is where my meager understanding of black holes collapses like a paper cup. I was thinking the same thing. Only I would expect it to be 0.25 g, because the distance term is squared. Yeah, that doesn't add up to me.

I think part of the blame lies on this all being based in theoretical physics, but I think the math just doesn't check out.

It's pretty well-understood that if, for example, the Sun were to collapse into a black hole, all that would happen (physics-wise) is our sky would go dark nine minutes later. The gravitational force is the same, and our orbit would be unchanged.

In the same way, if the Earth collapsed into our nickel-sized black hole... well, we begin falling towards it at 1g. Unfortunately, that acceleration accelerates as we get there, thanks to the inverse-square law (the reason we get a constant 1G at the surface is that the surface gets in the way of getting closer to the center). So yeah, we die. Satellites in orbit get a free pass, though. However, I'm 99% sure you're correct in believing that with no change in mass, there will be no change in gravity in an equally distant location.
 See, the difference in the Sun analogy is that the Sun's mass is already there. The gravitational effect is going to be the same because you have the same amount of mass in that direction. However, with the second example, you're randomly creating a black hole's worth of mass, rather than changing mass that's already there into a black hole.  This is actually more what would happen, the black hole couldn't consume enough matter at an appreciable rate, it would take time. Also the center of gravity of both would attract each other, so the black hole would just eat itself into the core of the earth and the earth approached it's center of gravity. Earth would exist for a little while as its slowly eaten away at from the center, because the energy going in repels itself. Actually, this is more convincing. Except the center of mass of the system is basically at the black hole, not the center of the earth. I expect that the black hole will pull the center of the earth toward it, and the earth will enter some bizarre sort of harmonic motion, oscillating about the black hole with columns of mass getting swept up by the black hole with each pass.  If the black hole has a mass similar to the earth, why is it's gravity so much stronger? Because all the mass is concentrated in a small area. Gravity gets weaker the farther away you are. On earth, if you stand in America, Australia is still pulling on you, but it's really weak because it's far away. It's far away because compared to a black hole, the earth is not very dense. The matter takes up a lot of space.

If you were to bottle it all up in a coin-sized space, you could fit it all right next to you. Wouldn't a black hole drop like a stone through water, pass the core, nearly get to the surface on the other side of the earth, and then continue oscillating? I wouldn't think the density of the Earth's crust would slow a singularity appreciably.  Assuming there's an ~earth-mass object on the other side of the earth from you, why would the acceleration for you be 50g? Wouldn't it be closer to 1.7g? (That'd be the 1g from the Earth's center of mass at 1 Earth radius from you, and the sqrt(2)g from the additional Earth mass which just appeared 2 Earth radii from you.) It's kinda amazing that the moon is so far away that even if the mass of the earth suddenly became that of jupiter, the moon would still be outside the roche limit.  So since I'm not doing my work like I'm supposed to be, I did a really quick calculation. Assuming the radius of the black hole is that of a nickel, I got 0.000005 solar masses. Putting that into the equation for the Roche limit gives a distance of just over 10 million meters. The moon is about 38 times farther away than that.  Yeah, but you have to remember the moon isn't instantaneously changing its velocity in this scenario, so it's not going to be in a circular orbit anymore.  The earth-moon distance is the apoapsis of this new highly-eliptical moon orbit, not the periapsis.  I'm not sure how to calculate this new orbit; I know it can be done knowing the mass, distance, and orbital velocity at apoapsis, but I'm betting it dives pretty close to the new black hole and (I'd think) gets tidally shredded on closest approach. &gt; over 10 million meters

You mean km? That's only 10,000km, less than the diameter of the earth.

(not trying to be snarky, just confused) Haha completely understandable. So to first answer your question, no. My calculations are in fact meters and yes the Roach limit is in fact that small. To slightly elaborate on that, you have to understand that a body being torn apart by the Roche effect is an EXTREME gravitational event. Seriously. Think about the difference in gravitational magnitude it would take to rip a MOON in half simple by exerting a different force on each side of it but *in the same direction.* That's the kicker. And just as a side note, the black hole in question is approximately the mass of Jupiter. So to put your 10 million km point into perspective: if that were the case, Jupiter would have no moons!  Yes but the Moon is moving around the Earth at 1 km/s.  Depending on where OP and the black hole were on the Earth, the relative motion of the Moon with respect to the black hole would be anywhere from 0.5 to 1.5 km/s.  Combined with the black hole's much stronger gravitational pull, the Moon's new orbit would be highly elliptical, with a perigee of between 300 and 3000 km.  That's much closer than the Moon's Roche limit, so the Moon would be broken up at its first perigee passing, within 1-2 days of the black hole's appearance. My head simply can't get a grip on this kind of information. I think I understand how much destruction/power this is/has but I also know its not even near.

My question is,

Can this happen anywhere anytime in space? What causes this? Black holes don't spontaneously form. The only known mechanism for producing them is a supernovae, or a merger of neutron stars (which are themselves the product of supernovae).  Primordial Black holes can also collapse directly out of a primordial density perturbation in the early universe. Such black holes do not require supernova (or even astrophysics) to form.  That's a fair point, though I'd like to say that no black holes like that have been observed. 

I don't know much about them though - are they theorized to form before or after inflation? They collapse after inflation. During inflation the expansion is too quick to be "turned around" to form something - gravity can never win. Primordial black holes can be much smaller than supermassive black holes or even stellar black holes. If so they should evaporate quickly.  So far the fermi telescope has failed to detect Hawking radiation from primordial BHs. This means that we can actually put a lower limit on the primordial BH mass spectrum which can be compared with the spectrum of perturbations from the CMB. Last I heard it's not so unlikely that the least massive primordial black hole hasn't hawking evaporated yet. 

Also, I hate to sound like a party pooper but only one black hole - Sagittarius A* at the center of the Galaxy - has ever really been observed. And even SgrA* has only been inferred. A black hole is the only reliable theory we have to explain what's there but the evidence is still circumstantial in the sense that it could be something else, something "new". Direct evidence in the form of an interaction with something like the gas cloud G2, would go song way to proving the existence of black holes beyond circumstantial inferences. As always: data! we need more data! &gt; Sagittarius A* at the center of the Galaxy - has ever really been observed. And even SgrA* has only been inferred. 

I feel like this is an unfair characterization that can be applied to anything in astronomy (or physics for that matter). I know too many observations that are too well explained by the presence of a black hole for them to be anything else. 

It would be like saying, "We've never actually seen a neutron star. The Crab Pulsar might be one, but we don't really know." Sure, we've never been to a neutron star, but they're a really good explanation for pulsars and the like. 
 I think this gets at the heart of what we call "discovery". Has dark matter been detected? In the heavens, yes. In the lab, no. Clearly one form of detection is superior to another. Same with black holes. I'm not saying "black holes don't exist". Clearly the best explanation of SgrA* is a supermassive black hole. But that's not the same - in my book at least - as saying we have confirmed the existence of black holes. The data alone don't actually discriminate between a black hole and just some other massive compact object. A black hole is defined by two key characteristics: the singularity at the center and its event horizon. As far as know the former is unfalsifiable. The latter isn't. If G2 would have crossed SgrA* event horizon and we would have made key measurement such as micro lensing, X-rays, time dilation, redshifts, etc well then the detection of a black hole could be considered final. As it stands don't let a beautiful theory dictate the data. The data say massive compact objects exist in the universe. Period. You can interpret it as a black hole. Or not. Without wanting to sound like a black sheep nor suffer from herd mentality, I'm staking out the weak position of the middle ground. Black holes probably exist yet I have personally never seen definitive evidence thereof. Convincing evidence, yes. Conclusive evidence, no.  This is almost like Randall Munroe wrote it.

All it needs is a drawing of a cat Agreed, we would die. Please give me more detail if you can. Would we be stretched to a mile long or just explode? Or anything in between.  The bomb-version nigh instantly stops the process that you are by turning your body into plasma. I tried to describe the Jupiter-version but then eventually realized that I need someone to describe it to me, for example because 3 times Earth's gravitational strength isn't all that much, so there would be some time for complex stuff to happen / experience. Yeah, the Star Trek "model" of a planet being gobbled up by a black hole, falling nicely into the maw and being absorbed completely, is almost certainly wrong.

The collapsing matter will definitely get superhot and emit radiation. There will be internal friction, etc. Also, the planet is spinning, and momentum must be conserved. All of the above paint a pretty complex picture for the collapsing heap of matter.

I think black holes almost never absorb object neatly and silently, unless the object is very, very tiny (at least compared to the BH). There would have to be some sort of accretion barrier being formed, exerting pressure (via radiation or some other mechanism) against new matter falling in. It would glow pretty brightly. Basically, it's the whole quasar scenario.

I guess what I'm saying is - the O.P. would die, certainly, but it's a bit uncertain whether death would occur due to being swallowed by the BH, being spread across and into an accretion disk like cream in a cup of coffee, or being fried with superbright hard radiation, glowing a brilliant, beautiful, deadly blue, from the very hot, swirling matter around the BH. One of the things to consider is the directionality of the force. The close proximity of the gravitational mass would produce some fairly horrific differences in the force vectors. 

. Let's assume that the coin is in his pocket. His head is being forced towards it at the same time his feet are drawn in the exact opposite direction. 

Alternatively, if it's sitting on the night stand and he's facing it, you might be folded in a "nicer" way.  I always wondered what would happen to a piece of matter (your body in this case) in a situation like that.

I suppose I'm imagining the black hole in your pocket instantly carving out a spherical cavity from your torso, with the rest your body and extremities getting drawn into it fractions of a second later, along paths dictated by their initial position with respect to the black hole. I wonder if the differing amounts of force exerted on various parts of your body would snap (I suppose liquify is a closer match in this case) your bones. The good news, apparently, is that all of this happens so quickly, your brain won't even have time to process the pain of being crushed into a literal singularity. Wouldn't there be a pretty significant time dilation that would slow time to the unfortunate victim?  The person falling into the black hole would experience time as normal. An observer far away would see the victim slowed down. (Please do not ask me to explain, there are many questions on this sub that do a great job at it). I thought it would only look that way to an outside observer if OP crossed the event horizon?

Anyway, even if time was slowed for them, the neural processes would be slowed as well, so they wouldn't notice.

...I have a feeling I'm missing something, but don't know what. Yes, but even from that perspective, it would be nearly instant. If it's less than a meter away (let alone in your pocket) you won't need to move far or fast at all to reach the singularity, from any POV.  It was described to me as extrusion in large, galaxy scale, black holes. I wonder if this would be the case here on a smaller scale/more intimate starting line to the event horizon. I'd be fascinated by what the people on the other side of the world experience. Is the ground ripped up from beneath them, as they get pulled upward and dissolved? Do they instantly burn from the releasing radiation and energy as the planet is torn apart?

So many questions.  It would be much more than 3 G's of acceleration. You have to take into account your distance from the center of mass since gravitational pull decreases with distance. On Jupiter, that's the radius of Jupiter but beside the black hole, that's only a meter or so at most.

Edit: for some reason I assumed the black hole would appear in your pocket... So maybe more than a few meters but still relatively incredibly close. Nothing demonstrated this better for me than XKCD's essay about a neutronium bullet.  As Randall pointed out, it masses about the same as a skyscraper, but because it compacts all that mass into a tiny volume, it is capable of causing short-range gravitational effects the building itself never could, because you could never be close to enough of the building at the same time to notice anything odd. Please tell us more stories i loved this I'm sorry. My responses are limited. You must ask the right questions. Is there a problem with the Three Laws? How can the net amount of entropy of the universe be massively decreased?  ~~Why would you kill yourself~~ Do black holes the with the mass of a nickel ever get created naturally? Wait, but in scenario 1, it's not an atom decaying, it's a black hole. Why would it release so much energy I thought black holes merely expel Hawking radiation. A black hole should eventually convert all its mass into Hawking radiation. The energy of that radiation is related to the mass that went into it by E=mc^(2). The speed of light is *huge*, so even 5 measly grams ends up giving you the enormous hundreds of teraJoules that VeryLittle quoted. I'm a little confused.  If Hawking radiation is occurring all the time, at a rate probably related to the surface area of the event horizon (just guessing), does that mean black holes are constantly releasing the same proportionate amount of energy (to their size) as is described by OP? The rate is proportional to the temperature of the BH, which is inversely proportional to size (big BHs are colder). All stellar BHs are therefore colder than the background radiation, and don't emit hawking radiation (they absorb more energy than they radiate).

When the universe expands and cools further, then these larger BHs will be able to evaporate. I didn't think black holes *had* temperature.  I thought that a black hole had only three properties: [mass, spin, and charge](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/No-hair_theorem).

So, are we talking about its temperature being inferred by the blackbody spectrum it would have if it were radiating (See [brightness temperature](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Brightness_temperature))?  How do you measure the temperature of a black hole? Exactly that yes - the 'temperature' of the BH is the equivalent temperature of the hawking radiation it emits. Black holes can be characterized entirely by mass, spin, and charge. They do have other physical properties such at temperature and radius, but these can be calculated directly from the necessary properties. By the rate it emits Hawking radiation, which for anything stellar mass and above, is going to be colder than the CMB | and don't emit hawking radiation 

I thought all black holes emitted hawking radiation? Just that in your example, the net energy gain would overpower the amount of radiation. Yeah I should have been more clear - there's no net emission of energy while the BH is 'colder' than the rest of the universe. As NastyEbilPiwate said, big black holes are very cold.

But it wouldn't make sense for a black hole to continuously release its mass' worth of energy, because it only has exactly one of its mass. That means it can only release that much energy *total*, ever. So as it evaporates over time, getting lighter and hotter, it will release more and more of that energy. But it won't - can't - happen all at once. Right, but my thinking was that hawking radiation would evaporate this hypothetical black hole so quickly only because hawking radiation is something that occurs at the boundary of a black hole, and because a very small black hole has a much higher surface area to volume ratio.  That is to say, if I had been correct in guessing that the rate of radiation was a function of surface area and not temperature, a very large black hole could still release the same amount of energy per area of surface as this very small black hole and yet take much longer to evaporate. Just to clarify a few things: a black hole's surface area and mass are proportional to each other, and its temperature is inversely proportional. Since black holes are blackbodies (i.e., their spectrum depends only on their temperature), the *rate* at which they emit energy is given by the [Stefan-Boltzmann law](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Stefan%E2%80%93Boltzmann_law), and depends on the fourth power of the temperature.

Because large black holes are colder and because they have more mass to radiate off, they take a lot longer to evaporate than smaller ones. A back-of-the-envelope calculation (see [Paul Townsend's lecture notes](http://arxiv.org/pdf/gr-qc/9707012v1.pdf), eq. 7.68) shows that the lifetime of a black hole goes like its mass to the third power.

Did that make things clearer? I'm not 100% sure what you're asking. I was just confused by imagining the evaporation of a black hole to proceed like the evaporation of a puddle of water.  The rate of evaporation of water, per area of surface, is constant regardless of the size of the puddle.  So if you consider a single drop of water and calculate the rate at which water evaporates from it (or, in this analogy, the energy released by hawking radiation from a tiny black hole), then the amount of water evaporated by a large lake is just some multiple of that rate which reflects the surface area difference between the drop and the lake, even though the drop will evaporate much more quickly.  That's how I was able to rationalize the fact that a tiny black hole would evaporate much more quickly than a larger black hole, even under the erroneous assumption that both experienced the same rate of evaporation per surface area.  I don't need any further explanation.  It's enough that I now know I was wrong. I just fired up Universe Sandbox and increased the mass of the Earth by 100% to account for the black hole coin, and it looks like Mercury's orbit also is a victim. It gets thrown out.

EDIT: [Bye bye, Mercury](http://i.imgur.com/SOyKOse.png) Huh. 

Can you run it longer? I'd be really curious to see what happens to Ceres or other asteroid belt objects. I had a hunch that they'd be the most effected, but I really have no idea.  [After another 300 or so years, it's still pretty stable.](http://i.imgur.com/PiXyDqI.png) How do we know so much about the mass of black holes? Given a mass, the formula to calculate the required radius to form a black hole is [easy to find](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Schwarzschild_radius) and vice versa.

This is because a black hole is defined as an object that has an escape velocity that exceeds the speed of light. So if the Millenium Falcon made the jump to hyperspeed, could it escape a black hole? When you say 'radius of the black hole', what do you mean? You don't mean the actual black hole, right? Since they're infinitely small? Do you mean the event horizion's radius? Yes, the radius of a black hole is generally understood to refer to the event horizon radius. I wish I were an artist so I could draw this response.

I imagine it to be somewhere between this: http://cms.toptenthailand.net/file/journal/20131122144151856/20131122144151856.jpg

and this:

https://robfatherxkeepinitreal.files.wordpress.com/2012/12/earth-is-destroyed.jpg?w=584 I have a nickel laying in front of me on my desk. I am eyeing it suspiciously now. I was under the impression that a black hole was matter compressed into a singularity. If that's the case, how do we measure the radius? When you talk about a black hole with the radius of a nickel, are we measuring the event horizon, or does the ball of matter actually have that volume? When discussing black holes, the radius is the event horizon. &gt;...you'll cross the event horizon before you even realize what's happening.

This is a terrifying and altogether disturbing concept for me.  Not simply the passing into the event horizon, but the fact that the "you" would be a full grown adult while the event horizon you're passing into is only the size of a nickel. How massive could the coin be while still allowing you to survive the resulting release of energy if the coin was a couple feet away from you?  Get that 35,000 tons of TNT number down to something like a large firecracker, I guess.

Since all this energy is being released, and extremely quickly,  would you be damaged by radiation, regardless of the mass of the coin? &gt; How massive could the coin be while still allowing you to survive the resulting release of energy if the coin was a couple feet away from you? Get that 35,000 tons of TNT number down to something like a large firecracker, I guess.


Using e=mc^(2), 1x10^(-12) grams of matter would turn into 89.876 joules of energy, which i believe is on the same order of magnitude as a fire cracker. That's a picogram, or about the weight of a single e-coli bacterium. Would putting something with the mass of Jupiter in Earth's place really only slightly perturb the orbits of the other solar system bodies? Other planets are too far away to be notably impacted.  Jupiter is big, but it's no where close to Sun big, nor nearly as dense.  https://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/a/a9/Planets2013.jpg/780px-Planets2013.jpg Also, space is stupidly large.

http://joshworth.com/dev/pixelspace/pixelspace_solarsystem.html

I like this example of how large/empty space is.  In the nickle radius case, how would my perception of time approaching the event horizon and passing it affect how I see things around me? Would the world around me appear to slow down? EDIT: Meant to say "speed up?" As far as you're concerned, there's nothing special at all about the event horizon - you wouldn't even notice it. It's only to an outside observer that it seems special, since it's the point from which light can no longer get out. &gt; As far as you're concerned, there's nothing special at all about the event horizon - you wouldn't even notice it.

Well, that depends on which side of The Great Black Hole Firewall Schism of 2012 you find yourself on... [deleted] Do black holes pull things in because of their insane gravity alone, or is there something else to it? Why do they have that amount of gravity in the first place? As far as I know the only times blackholes are actually formed is when really really big things collapse in on themselves. So there huge gravity comes from the fact that they are made from really big things. It is my understanding that blackhole don't pull anything in any more than our sun pulls us in. The light not escaping comes more from gradient created by the density and not so much the actual mass. It's all about mass.  Assuming that the sun were replaced by a black hole of equal mass, not a whole lot would happen other than the Earth freezing from lack of sunlight.  Black holes have an insane amount of gravity because they have an absolutely insane quantity of mass.  As described above.  A black hole the size of a nickel would have a mass roughly equivalent to that of Jupiter.  They don't really suck anything in any differently than any other massive object, they just have *more* mass which leads to *more* pull. It's because gravitational pull is inversely proportional to your distance from the center of gravity. You're approximately 6,000 kilometers from the center of Earth. If the nickel had a similar gravitational pull, but you were standing 1 meter away, the force of gravity would be 6*10^6 times greater. If you were holding it in your hand and your elbow was half a meter away, then it would feel 12*10^6 earth gravities. 

That's also why OP said your chin would be feeling a significantly different pull than your teeth (because their distance from the center of gravity is significant). [Spaghettification](https://youtu.be/UVhLzhWp0-o?t=34s) &gt; If atoms were made of atoms

wat

I kind of get the analogy you're making... but how are you figuring the size ratio between "atoms" and "atom atoms"...? Serious question, how can start dive into those kinda topics? Any tips or recommendation?  Check out the book "[What If?](http://www.amazon.com/What-If-Scientific-Hypothetical-Questions/dp/0544272994)" by Randall Munroe for similarly scientific answers to numerous hypothetical questions. Love that book.  And he also puts a lot up on his website. On mobile atm and can't link. sorry if this breaks the rules, but wow would I love to see a computer simulation of this...

Just imagine a documentary (similar to the one where the camera zooms from a subatomic particle to the outer limits of the known universe, but for black holes; showing scenarios where the holes were pin sized, coin sized, beach ball sized, football stadium sized, etc.)  Something with a huge, Hollywood budget backed w/ people who have the special effects talent of the folks who did the recent San Andreas movie, coupled with actual scientific minds like Tyson et al...

I would honestly pay 10-20 dollars just to see a 20-30 minute mini-documentary on something like that.  

BTW, as others have stated, thanks for the very well-written synopsis. Incredibly fascinating stuff. Not exactly what you are looking for, but there's an astrophysicist in Boulder names Andrew Hamilton who does realistic computer renderings of what it would look like falling into a blackhole. And they're free! Enjoy - http://jila.colorado.edu/~ajsh/insidebh/intro.html Best thing I've read today! Thank you for your very in depth answer. What would be the energy output and nuclear bomb comparison to the second black hole collapse? And how long would it take to do so? &gt; Tidal forces from the black hole could disrupt the asteroid belt, sending rocks careening through the solar system

Wait. If it's only slightly more massive than the Earth, why would it have disruptive tidal forces out past Mars' orbit? I can't imagine that magically doubling Earth's mass would do a whit to anything past the moon. So if it's tiny it explodes instead of consuming mass? It radiates away faster than it can interact with any meaningful amount of mass [deleted] &gt; This 5 grams of mass will be converted to 150 teraJoules of energy, which is comparable to the detonation of about 35,000 tonnes of TNT, and will produce an explosion three times bigger than the atomic bombs dropped on Hiroshima and Nagasaki combined.

My takeaway from this is that artificial black hole bombs are going to be the next big thing in first world military spending.
 I don't think so. I mean we have yet to really understand them, since our current physics models break down past the event horizon, I believe. 

Could we really make something (even if it's artificial) like a black hole when we can't even properly understand how they work? If this were to become a reality, I do not believe it would be possible before thousands of years into the future. [deleted] Hey, in the end of the XCOM game the enemy capital ship self destructs by turning itself into a black hole and one your soldiers pilots it away from the earth(it's hanging above the ocean when this starts) and up into what I assume is low earth orbit or just above.

Assuming it weighs somewhere between 100,000 and 1,000,000 tons(modern super carriers weigh up to 100,000 tons). What would the effect be if that alien capital ship turned into a black hole like it did in the game?

I still die? &gt; has a radius of about 10 mm. This black hole has a mass of 1027 kilograms 

Do we know if a black hole this small is possible? Apparently the smallest discovered is still around 15km in diameter. Is it simply not possible for something with such little (relative) mass to collapse into a black hole- or do they likely not give off enough radiation/ gravity to be detectable easily/ they die out too soon? Sidebar from the blackhole discussion, what if it went the other way? Suppose while monkeying around with warp field theory and other doodads, some bloke at NASA accidentally gets it very very right and catapults the bulk of the Earth's core into space. What happens when Earth's mass is abruptly spread out over a very large distance? Very interesting, but one thing escapes me: Little Boy and Fat Man had about 35 kilotons combined, so why would the combined explosion be three times bigger? Yeah I fucked up the numbers. The real answer is closer to 100 kT.  Could you expound on the point with tidal forces pulling asteroids in? To an observer in the asteroid belt, as far as gravity goes, the new black hole will just be the equivalent of doubling the Earth's mass, and I fail to see how this plays in to tidal forces. Feel free to use [this](http://nuclearsecrecy.com/nukemap/) to visualize what 100 kilotons of boom look like in your hometown. I read a few years ago that the LHC was creating "mini black holes" that disipated in fractions of a second with little to nothing happening. If the nickel mass black hole causes that much energy to be released and is unimaginably small, how did that happen at the LHC? Because in the LHC your talking individual atoms. A nickel has to an order of magnitude 1x10^22 atoms. So your talking over a trillion times more mass than 2 atoms smashing into each other. Now what I don't know is how relativity plays in. Since the 2 atoms moving some fraction of the speed of light would become more massive but once they collide and decelerate I don't know what happens. This would fit perfectly on Randall Munroe's blog What-If?. Thanks for the entertaining answer. The biblical sense of "awesome" and the dwarf fortress sense of "fun" seem basically the same. Can someone please animate this? &gt; a radius of about 10 mm. This black hole has a mass of 1024 kilograms - slightly bigger than the mass of the earth.

i know this term gets tossed around a lot but this is seriously some *mind-blowing* stuff here

really puts things into perspective.  Yeah but if Matthew Mcconaughey is holding the coin...he can contact his daughter and save us all. And the second black hole, notably, will not decay. The energy from the microwave background radiation that fills the universe that it consumes will be greater than its losses to Hawking Radiation. The smallest blackhole that has greater losses than gainz, even if it consumes no normal matter (gas, dust, asteroids, whatever) in the present universe would have about the mass of Mt. Everest. This was incredibly interesting to read, thank you!

I'm going to go tell my gf all about it and wait for her to tell me to shutup :D So if CERN accidentally creates a black hole the size of a nickel, we're totally doomed? Neil deGrasse Tyson is that you?? You really got my with this one. I am not only impressed but in awe of the awesome power of such a small black hole (either case). Just wow.  

Thank you.  Didn't the guys at CERN create a small and short lived black hole? How did they deal with all thay energy?? The black hole would orbit the sun? I had no idea they moved. [deleted] I find it very interesting and mind boggling how so many giant black holes exist, yet space in itself is so huge that we are not really affected by these black holes...or are we?  One would argue we are, since we are likely all orbiting a massive black hole at the center of the Milky Way. The novel *Earth*, by David Brin, presents a fictional scenario where a tiny black hole is accidentally dropped into the earth and starts orbiting the core of the Earth.

It's a little dated and definitely has a 90's environmentalist theme, but it's worth reading. That book was the first thing I thought of when I saw this thread. It orbited at a *highly* elliptical orbit and kept just punching small holes through the earth. I'm bothered by micro black holes. I think black holes are formed by intense gravity.  So anything smaller (in mass) than several suns would not hold.  I see it like a spring.  Enough mass will collapse it, but if there is not enough mass to collapse the bonds it simply will not collapse.  I've seen the math that says enough energy will collapse matter.  But as soon as the energy dissipates it would bounce back without the gravity holding it together.  The exact mortality rate varies by species, geographical location, and time, but in every species I know of, there is some mortality risk during hibernation, due to predation, disease, starvation, etc.

As a counterpoint to bats, apparently black bears have a really low mortality rate during hibernation, ~1%.  (Seems like that would actually be lower than their mortality rate during the summer!)

ETA:

1. Wow, I did not expect so much enthusiasm for bears!

2. Although it apparently has been a topic of controversy, there does seem to be scientific consensus that bears hibernate:
https://en.wikipedia.org/?title=Hibernation#Bears
https://scholar.google.com/scholar?hl=en&amp;q=bear+AND+hibernation&amp;btnG=&amp;as_sdt=1%2C14&amp;as_sdtp=
http://www.reddit.com/r/askscience/comments/3atd68/how_common_is_it_for_animals_to_die_during/csfwpvo The bear mortality rate is rather impressive, but does seem to make sense as well.  Because bears are typically on the tops of the respective food chains, predaation is a non-issue for hibernation.  Bears also have regulated and more strict hunting seasons, so human predation during their hibernation period is also a non-issue.  Furthermore there are no known diseases that have a heavy impact on bear hibernation.  All of this, coupled with the fact that bears become so freakin' anal about eating leading up to their nap, I can see why they don't have much of a mortality risk during their sleepy time.  Bears absolutely gorge themselves on food leading up to hibernation.  They just eat and eat and eat and eat, getting sooooo fat for it.  The only starvation risk they would have for hibernation would be if food was scarce leading up to it.   Outside of this, some bears exhibit alterations in skeletal muscle protein balance during winter anorexia. Lohuis et al. did a study that concluded that bears appear to retain muscle integrity throughout winter dormancy, despite the obvious risks for skeletal muscle atrophy and protein loss. [Source](http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S109649590700053X). Tinker et al. did a study prior to the Lohuis study that concluded that, while lactating females do use some protein in conjunction with fat catabolism, the protein use is moderate. [Source](http://www.jstor.org/stable/10.1086/515429?seq=1#page_scan_tab_contents). In all, bears exhibit unique physiological hibernation strategies that many other hibernating species do not and this contributes to their successful wintering.  I remember studying this back in grad school. Bears' cells when they enter hibernation elicit a very strange anti-inflammatory/healing molecular pathway. Point being: a bear that enters hibernation with nasty wounds will heal without having any scars (which would occur if they weren't hibernating)

This same pathway(s) protect the bear from muscular dystrophy and muscle loss. 

http://www.bbc.co.uk/nature/17404059

http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/j.1749-4877.2011.00280.x/abstract Well! That very interesting, thanks. That's absolutely fascinating. Thank you. I heard that bears twitch during hibernation to retain their muscle integrity. Is the mechanism(s) preventing muscle atrophy during hibernation well understood? Perhaps we could learn from how nature does it in order to make something that would prevent muscle atrophy in humans? The Lohuis study is the premier study on denning black bears. They found that the decrease in skeletal muscle protein synthesis and breakdown during winter denning leads to preservation of protein mass as well as muscle fiber integrity by overwintering bears (Tinker et al., 1998 and Lohuis et al., 2007). They concluded that bears may utilize other labile protein reserves to meet metabolic needs and thus spare crucial skeletal muscle. 

However, we don't current know what these nitrogen and protein sources are. I believe Lohuis concluded his study by determining that a comparison of protein synthesis and breakdown in several organ systems would be necessary to determine what these sources are. 

I'm not sure if T.D. Lohuis has funding or plans to conduct a subsequent study on black bears. The initial grant was funded by the NSF, in conjunction with Colorado and Wyoming Game and Fish Departments. I imagine that team has applied for a second grant to research the nitrogen sources, but it may take years before we get results. 

I do know that places like NASA would be interested in how bears manage this. The military would also be interested. So I imagine their team would receive funding.  I looked into it a little today. According to Fuster et al., 2007, in bears a proteolytic inhibitor is released in circulation during hibernation which prevent muscle atrophy. According to Harlow et al., 2004, bears also exhibit periodic muscle activity during hibernation. The paper states: "bears engage in bouts of muscle activity during the winter denning period that may result in the retention of muscle strength".

I wonder if we could synthesize a proteolytic inhibitor similar to what is found in bear plasma..? As you mention, NASA would probably be very interested in something like that both for the astronauts currently on the ISS and for future exploratory missions in our solar system.

Harlow et al., 2004:
http://www.bioone.org/doi/abs/10.1644/1545-1542%282004%29085%3C0414%3ABSTOHB%3E2.0.CO%3B2

Fuster et al., 2007:
http://www.clinicalnutritionjournal.com/article/S0261-5614%2807%2900124-0/abstract
 i heard before that bears eat their poop plug for nutrients after hibernation.  is that true? I'm not sure, but I can't imagine why this would be true. 

Bears are carnivores and have a digestive system similar to humans. Coprophagia is common in herbivores, specifically hind-gut fermenters. Hind-gut fermenters do this because most of the food products have reached the caecum undigested. Bacterial fermentation occurs in the caecum and colon allowing some volatile fatty acids to be absorbed, but then the digested food is excreted (along with the microflora). This is why some hindgut fermenters are seen eating their faeces  the food making up the faeces has been digested by the microflora making it of nutritional value. The ingestion of the faeces allows the restoration of the microflora population. [Source](http://vetsci.co.uk/2010/05/14/comparative-digestion/). 

Additionally, the fecal plug is made of intestinal secretions and cells that slough off during hibernation. During hibernation, bears accumulate feces in the lower 7 to 15 inches of the intestine to form a plug. The fecal plug is just feces that has remained in the intestines for a period that is so long that all the fluids have been reabsorbed. [Source](http://www.bear.org/website/bear-pages/black-bear/hibernation/18-bears-mysterious-fecal-plug.html). There would be no nutrients that remain in the fecal plug and coprophagia would be a fairly useless food source. 

Further, the fecal plug is often found in or immediately around the den. It seems like, if a bear has eaten their fecal plug, it's a fairly uncommon occurrence. [Source](http://www.nps.gov/yell/learn/nature/denning.htm).  Aren't bears omnivores?  A good part of their diet comes from berries and roots. Good catch! They are omnivores, and depending on the species, 70% (or more) of their diet can come from plants and berries. Other studies state the following: Grizzly bears eat meat wherever it is available, and meat provides the majority of energy for some bears and some populations (Mattson 1997, Jacoby et al. 1999). Meat is highly digestible to bears and contains high concentrations of energy (Pritchard and Robbins 1990).

The rest of the comment remains accurate, however. Bears cannot digest cellulose and their digestive systems are also more similar to pure carnivores in that their colon is smooth, simple, and short. 
 So basically the first thing bears do after hibernation is take a giant dump? [deleted] do bears go boom boom while they sleep? Nope, their body makes a super dense and dry boom boom plug which builds up  in their boom boom chute during hibernation. 

ninjaedit: [boom boom chute plug sauce](http://www.bear.org/website/bear-pages/black-bear/hibernation/18-bears-mysterious-fecal-plug.html) &gt;Fecal plugs have a light odor that is not unpleasant

Interesting, is this because it's so dry? Probably. Poop smells because of [Bacteria](http://mentalfloss.com/article/49033/why-does-poop-stink) and bacteria need food to survive and thrive. I'm not aware of any bacteria that can feed directly off of dry hair and calloused skin, so there's probably not much bacterial action due to the lack of food. 
 How light do they sleep during hibernation? Theoretically if I walked close to a sleeping bear on dry crunchy leaves would he wake?  Yes, they could. They sleep very lightly. Some animals hibernate - which means that they lower core temp to some ridiculous low levels and need some time to boot-up again, others (e.g. bears) just sleep tight to conserve energy.

Edit: More info here:

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hibernation#Bears If they get woken up can they go back into hibernation easily? Or does it return them to their normal state? I seem to remember reading somewhere about how pioneers/fur trappers used to "wrestle bears" as a show of toughness, but that the trick was that they dragged them out of their dens while they were still groggy from hibernation. Is this urban legend? I learned it long ago so I might be messing something up, but AFAIR they do wake up regularly for a short time move a bit and go back to sleep. So I would say they would go back to sleep after being woken up. The article you linked defines bears as "hibernators", characterizing hibernation as a reduction in metabolism--which bears indeed undergo Bears are rather alert while hibernating. They'd be able to respond to threats.  From what I've read, they can actually wake up quite quickly if they sense that they are being threatened Well, if we're talking about bears (which is usually the animal most commonly attributed to hibernation), then yes the animal would probably wake. You have to understand that hibernation is NOT a long sleep, but rather a very long resting period. Often times, the bear will stay awake for hours at a time. They just don't move from their den to get food. I don't believe that animals die commonly from hibernation, because they are living off of the massive amounts of fat that is stored. I wish I could do that. Would it work for humans? If a morbidly obese person was in a coma or something, could they live off their fat reserves for a time? [deleted] There have been a number of studies that included people fasting for periods of time exceeding a year, living only off of their body fat and some administered, non-caloric, nutrition to prevent diseases associated with nutrient deficiencies. I've heard they sleep fairly light. I have found two occupied bear dens - Once a male and one a mother with two cubs. I got closer to the male and he stirred, I thought maybe he caught wind of my scent but he didn't seem to "wake up." I also found an empty den once with tracks leading away in the snow. They don't stay put all winter. Dry and grassy. During hibernation, reducing any odors greatly improves mortality rates due to predation. This obviously means more when hibernating with cubs. Bears have just about mastered the no smell thing. They also don't truly hibernate but more of a torpor. What's the difference between a hibernation and a torpor? Think about it like this; in a true hibernation your body temperature and heart beat lower and slow down tremendously. Lots of rodents hibernate but when a threat is posed (wolf in the den) the rodent must shake and tremor for minutes upon minutes to raise their temp and heart rate. Too late you are dinner. A bear on the other hand only lowers their body temp and heart rate ever so slightly so as to still be effective sleeping but can also wake up VERY quickly when they sense company. I honestly think that bears have mastered hibernation so well it falls back into a 'torpor' class (if that makes any sense). They have simply perfected the deep sleep and can still wake up and be alert within seconds. Sorta like letting your computer go to sleep versus turning it off? One has you up and running in a blink and other needs a bit for booting up. According to the Wikipedia article there isn't really one, except hibernation is like a period of torpor (reduced metabolic rate) &gt; not unpleasant

Who investigated this? [deleted] There's even a word for it: [tappen](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tappen_%28biology%29).

I love the fact that we have a word for that, especially such a normal-looking word. English must have gotten that word from Norwegian. "Tappen" translates to (the) tap/plug. The cured faeces plug that the bear excretes upon leaving his den, is called bjnntappen or simply tappen. It's a telltale sign that a den you stumble upon was in use last winter, and that the bear has left. [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] Driving up for skiing in West Virginia a few year ago for an over new years long weekend, we saw a cabin with five! count'em five dead bears hanging up from tree limb. Kind of freaked out because at first they looked like human bodies hanging from nooses.  I guess the hunter was bleeding them out and cleaning the offal out of the carcasses; but my thought was "It's the middle of winter, wouldn't those bears have been hibernating?". Is it legal to hunt and kill a hibernating bear? The five bears makes it illegal. Hunters are limited to one per day and two per year. While true, it's possible that the person was a taxidermist or butcher, and was doing work for multiple clients. I'd bet fair money I'm typing this from a location fairly close to where /u/shiningPate went skiing, and it's not uncommon in the surrounding areas to see much higher numbers of game hung in a yard than is legal for a single hunter to harvest.

With regards to black bear however, if they saw those bear hung near Canaan Valley or Snowshoe (the 2 largest ski resorts in the state), it's likely that the animals were harvested illegally, as you may only take 2 bear per season providing that at least one of them is harvested in Boone, Fayette, Kanawha, Logan, McDowell, Mingo, Nicholas, Raleigh or Wyoming counties. Snowshoe is in Pocahontas county, and Canaan Valley is in Tucker county. Poaching is a real problem, especially in Pocahontas county, since the wild game population is abundant there and the best hunting grounds are, for the most part, privately owned and beyond the direct oversight of the WVDNR. Idk the hibernation schedule, but according to this quick google search: http://www.wvdnr.gov/Regulations/hunting_hrBearArchFire.shtm  West Virginia has a split bear hunting season from September- November, and December 8-31.  I didn't read any rules regarding killing a hibernating bear, but that sounds utterly pointless/ bad sport.   Isn't that the sort of problem facing polar bears? It's too many temperatures.
It's a polar bears only natural enemy, as top of its respective food chain. &gt;predaation is a non-issue for hibernation. 

I don't buy that. I don't think bears buy it either. [This study showed](http://www.sciencedaily.com/releases/2011/08/110817022136.htm) that bears remain very alert throughout hibernation. In the current ecological landscape, I'm sure wild canid or group of them would happily take a hibernating black bear that didn't stay alert. In the ecological landscape that bears evolved in (i.e. with pre-Pleistocene megafauna), they most certainly were not atop the food chain, and probably dealt with a greater predation risk. 


My point being: black bears have evolved to actively avoid predation during hibernation by staying alert in the deep sleep. They deal with predation risks today, and these risks were greater in the past.  [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] But a 1% mortality rate isn't very high. Maybe some of that is due their alertness during hibernation, but I doubt even a pack of wolves would go after a hibernating bear unless they are desperate. Not worth the risk of even a small injury before winter. Not so much that, a bear has a huge advantage when under shelter vs a wolf pack. The wolves can't encircle the bear to take advantage of numbers and any swats the bear takes against a wolf are going to do far more than the usual claw damage once the wolves hit the side of the shelter (bears hibernate in canyons, caves, or at least very sense vegetation, not the middle of a field). We're talking broken bones and internal bleeding in addition to the claw cuts so the wolves would have to be insanely desperate to try a hibernating bear. My understanding is that hibernation is only triggered when fast reserves reach the level that would let them survive.  If they don't reach that level they don't sleep.  (Animal planet) The back and forth from children story book vocabulary/phrases to undergraduate thesis terminology is wonderful! Aren't animals that have insufficient fat stores going in to hibernation, bears in particular, prone to just waking up? I was always taught that juvenile bears that are out especially early in the season are particularly dangerous because they're often severely underweight and desperate.

I would think this would minimize the contribution of starvation to the overall mortality rate during hibernation, if it is in fact the case. &gt; mortality risk during their sleepy time.

Just a note: hibernation is not sleep. Some animals (e.g. squirrels) come out of hibernation to pee &amp; sleep. It's an entirely different process. It seems like they'd be at greater risk in the period immediately after hibernation--when they're obligated to the leave the protection of their den, but they're still undernourished. It's still a bear. Just now a slightly skinnier and very hungry bear. I would still *not* want to bump into one. Maybe, but adult bears still have virtually no natural predators.

A mountain lion or something might be able to kill a *sick* bear, but it probably still wouldn't want to take the risk of being mauled. Just about the only things that ever kill full-grown bears are disease, starvation, accidental injuries, and people. I wasn't thinking as much about predators.  Mostly the necessity to hunt while weak and undernourished.  It seems likely that hunting and savaging would be more difficult immediately after hibernation.  Also skinny bear is more susceptible to the elements.  It might also take on more challenging prey due to hunger, increasing chance of injury. Bears rarely hunt, especially black bears.  For instance when a black bear leaves his burrow after hibernation it will eat basically anything ie: grass, leaves, twigs This past winter in BC, wolves were witnessed to prey on bears during hibernation. Leave it top wolves top figure out how to take down bears.  Wait, seriously can this work for obese people?  Induced comma and just let them sleep it off eventually. Figured I could chime in for some insects: while I have no figures sitting with me (because I'm actually at a field station conducting summer bumblebee research!) and the data is sparse, it's worth stating that insect mortality during periods of diapause can sometimes be very high. However, it's hard to say as it's extremely difficult to monitor these species naturally while "hibernating". 

For bumblebees and other bees that undergo some type of diapause (most), overwinter mortality is based off of fat content and temperature swings. People expect it is very high mortality, but afaik, there's no direct data on this. 

What is my point in telling you there's basically no data for these species? I guess I'm trying to say for most species (since insects, you know), the data is not there.  Except for honey bees, for which there are tons of data (and tons of winter mortality, sadly.)

For example: http://www.capabees.com/content/uploads/2013/07/2014-CAPA-Statement-on-Honey-Bee-Wintering-Losses-in-Canada.pdf I don't know how knowledgeable you are about it, but does the mortality rate of hibernation follow the trends of a species' reproductive strategy?

ie R strategists would tend to hive higher mortality rates while K strategists would have lower mortality rates?   Sorry, what's R and K? R strategists reproduce quickly, tend to have a high infant mortality, and reach sexual maturity quickly. The classic example of this strategy would be rabbits.

K strategists are the opposite; they reproduce slowly, tend to have low infant mortality, and have a long period before reaching sexual maturity. These animals also tend to be large. Humans are a great example of K strategy.  Cool - do R&amp;K coincide with specific survivorship curve types? Why yes! Take a look at [this graph](http://image.slidesharecdn.com/summaryoftopic2-140228125833-phpapp02/95/summary-of-topic-26-14-638.jpg?cb=1393592352). Is C just a baseline or is it an actual type? Like C always has a medium number of offspring that are equally likely to die or survive instead of the extremes of the others? C represents species that have constant survivorship. These guys are your lizards and some birds fall in this category. The [wikipedia page](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Survivorship_curve) on it does a good job of explaining it. 

I'll do a summary in case you don't want to read it though. Basically the C category represents animals that have a constant ratio between mortality/probability of survival with age. An animal in this category would be just as likely to die at age 2 as age 4 Neat! I'm not into biology or anything really, it's always awesome to get a snapshot of these areas of interest that'll otherwise never cross my path. I had no idea we as people had even quantified this kind of stuff, let alone set up standards and naming conventions. It makes sense, just not something I ever thought of before. are insects R strategists, or would THAT amount of babies be categorized differently? Most insects are considered prime examples of R strategists.

I say "most" to hedge my bets; I can't think of a K strategist insect right at this moment, but biology has a lot of quirks. Here's a link! Apparently the tsetse fly produces only one egg at a time, which resides in her uterus where it feeds off a 'milk gland' until it matures and is 'born'. There's a few more on the list as well - the useful search term in this instance was 'low fecundity'.

http://entnemdept.ifas.ufl.edu/walker/ufbir/chapters/chapter_17.shtml Lots of disposable children vs very few high value children, although I can't remember which is which.

edit: according to [wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Reproduction#Reproductive_strategies) k is few children, r is many  r and k don't just refer to the number of offspring, but their development strategy as well. r for many offspring that are basically emancipated at birth, and k for a few offspring with lots of parental investment. 

I remember it by associating "r" with "rapid" development. I would imagine that hibernation is more or less reserved for K strategists as they have the lifespans to fit in hibernation but I would also like to know if this applies to pioneer species or not as they are pretty much all r strategists. Could some/all bats be considered pioneer species? &gt;I would imagine that hibernation is more or less reserved for K strategists as they have the lifespans to fit in hibernation

I would argue that diapause is a form of hibernation. At least, they are both more extreme than mere torpor.  Mosquitos often go through a diapause to survive winter as larvae, and they are most definitely on the r end of the k-r continuum. I'm not very knowledgeable about that, and mostly I know about honey bees, which don't truly hibernate.

What you're suggesting seems like a sound hypothesis to me, though. Could the lower mortality rates also be related to the fact that bears have a lighter sleep during hibernation (i.e., they are not true hibernators and can be roused relatively easily compared to true hibernators)? I would imagine that being a lighter sleeper would be more protective against mortality. &gt; As a counterpoint to bats, apparently black bears have a really low mortality rate during hibernation, ~1%.

Does that include cubs? I was under the impression that a significant number of cubs were killed by predators (mostly other bears) while still in their den. I am learning so much about bears today!

Apparently the cubs do not hibernate, even though they are born in winter: http://bearstudy.org/website/images/stories/Publications/A_Bear_in_its_Lair.pdf

And it looks like they do have a much higher morality rate than adults during their first winter, mainly because other bears are eating them :-/   http://www.bearbiology.com/fileadmin/tpl/Downloads/URSUS/Vol_7/LeCount_Vol_7.pdf Yes, bears are notorious cannibals. Males specifically go looking for cubs to eat as soon as they wake up.  Do bears dream in hibernation? Just out of interest, how are these estimates made? I know there will have to be some degree of uncertainty and assumptions must be made but it must be difficult considering it would be impossible to track all members of a species from hibernation to the next season.  Bears do what is called a torpor which is a lighter form of hibernation. Torpor is not a true hibernation and the of sleep is much shorter and less deeper, so mortality rate is going to be different to the squirrel and other hibernating counterparts. [Hibernation allows a diverse range of small mammals to exhibit seasonal dormancy, which might increase survival and consequently be associated with relatively slow life histories. ](http://rspb.royalsocietypublishing.org/content/early/2011/03/22/rspb.2011.0190)

Hibernation actually increases lifespan and likelihood of an animal dying during this period is quite low.

/r/dataisbeautiful

Edit: TL;DR: Overall, monthly survival probability was higher (by a median of 0.08) during the hibernation season in 37 (93%) out of the 40 within-group (i.e. sex and age) comparisons. When survival estimates for sexes and ages were averaged for each of the 19 species, a phylogenetically informed model included a significant and strong effect of season on survival

Source: http://rspb.royalsocietypublishing.org/content/early/2011/03/22/rspb.2011.0190 This kind of article is what I was originally looking for to write a response to this question . . . thank you for posting it. You're welcome, definitely enjoy a visual representation of data! It always helps. 15% of european adders die during hibernation, but then they are cold blooded and hibernate for up to 8 months.  And to be honest i am baffeled by how they can survive Finnish winters at all

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Vipera_berus#Behaviour Hibernation physiologist here! 
  
Predation is not actually a huge risk for most hibernators - the biggest cause of mortality during hibernation is not having enough  fat (or food) stored. This is a bigger problem for smaller animals who don't eat over the hibernation season, since they have less room to store fat. Golden-mantled ground squirrels have about a 25% mortality rate for this reason.
   How come bears survive without water intake for so long while humans can't survive a week? Followup: how long can bears survive without water when not hibernating?

(I assume a state of hibernation lowers the body's food a water needs?) There are two main reasons.

The first is that [oxidization of fatty acids](http://www.biochem.arizona.edu/miesfeld/Miesfeld-Fall2008Lecs/Lec34-Fall08/Lec34-F08-Handout.pdf) (which is where the bear is getting all of its energy), also produces quite a bit of water, in fact you end up with about the same mass of water as the mass of the fat that was metabolised ([source](http://link.springer.com/chapter/10.1007/978-3-642-81105-0_8)).  

The second is that they reabsorb water through the walls of their bladder at a rate that matches the excretion of water by their kidneys (no source, sorry I'm lazy). Where do bears hibernate? I've always heard caves, but what if a bear can't find a cave? Depends on the bear, but caves are actually not that common.

[Black bears tend to excavate dens, den under windfalls, in hollow trees or caves, and in previously occupied dens \(Jonkel 1980\). Grizzly bears tend to excavate dens at the base of large trees often on densely vegetated north-facing slopes.](http://www.nps.gov/yell/learn/nature/denning.htm) [Dude here in New Jersey went down into his seldom-used basement recently and found a bear hibernating by his furnace.](http://newyork.cbslocal.com/2011/12/15/bear-in-mans-basement-went-undetected-for-weeks/) Just out of curiosity, why do people study hibernation?  Is there an application for humans? Why do people study any basic science? We want to understand the mechanisms behind a really interesting physiological phenomenon. That being said, there *are* some applications for humans... if we can figure out what controls metabolic suppression in hibernators, it's possible we can induce it in non-hibernators. Suppressing tissue metabolic rate could extend the life of organs for transport. And eventually, if we can induce whole-animal metabolic suppression in animals, it's possible we could use it in humans for space travel.  
  
We're pretty far from these things though, considering we're still not sure what's controlling metabolic suppression at a cellular level. But it's fun to talk about, though I only really bring up space travel when I get the inevitable questions about how my research applies to humans.  I feel like every advanced study in any field always comes back to "space travel" and that is awesome. It is one of the few things that the reinforce the quote "a society grows great when old men plant trees whose shade they know they will never sit in" and how the planet isn't just a bag of greedy dicks As someone who has worked with bats in North America, I'll point out [white-nose syndrome](http://www.nwhc.usgs.gov/disease_information/white-nose_syndrome/).   It's a rapidly spreading disease that routinely wipes out entire colonies of hibernating bats, typically at a 100% mortality rate.

It was introduced to the US from Europe by cavers within the last decade, and has been spreading at a frightening pace ever since.  It poses the threat of making the hibernating bats of North America extinct.  That's not a joke.  It's extremely sad.

Because we know so little about bats (they're very difficult to study), the ecological consequences (and the effects on YOU, other humans) are very hard to predict.  According to [this infographic](http://payload251.cargocollective.com/1/15/483921/7324788/White-Nose-Syndrome3_o.png), bats save us from the need for an extra $4 billion in pesticide use each year.

But that's just one example of the [ecosystem services](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ecosystem_services) that bats provide.  Just like honeybees, our lives would be a lot more difficult without them. but we dont hear anything about this because they're not cute and cuddling and they don't provide us with sweet sweet honey

would the lack of guano affect a lot of farmers just like lack of bee pollination would???
 It's not the guano that the bats provide, but the consumption of billions of crop-eating insects every night.  There are many other indirect effects bats have on ecosystems, which we indirectly rely on. Would bat houses help? You just made me extremely worried about our bat populations. And the honey bee population is dropping drastically to. It seems like we could live in a very changed world here soon. I'd say the bat problem is bigger than the bee problem, if only because we can turn the bee issue around dramatically by changing our agricultural practices.

For bats, there may be nothing we can do.  Consider that vast majority of the entire species of Indiana Bats (**Myotis sodalis**) hibernate in just a 4 or 5 caves that we know of.  They could be wiped out in one winter. I keep bees. It's fairly common that the hive dies over the winter. They don't exactly hibernate though - they cluster in a roughly spherical shape and keep the internal temp of their cluster at about 102 F (39 C). The real danger is temperature swings. They'll leave the hive to defecate (they won't do it in the hive) and if the temperature dips too quickly they won't get back into a cluster and they risk freezing. You typically leave a colony of about 50,000 bees 100 lbs (45 kg) of honey for the winter.

Also, since they're not working as much they live a lot longer during the winter - up to six months. During the summer they often on live for 6-8 weeks. They literally work themselves to death. I live near an area known for it's bat population and have been keeping up with this a little bit.

Lately I've heard that there may be rapidly evolving populations that are more resilient to white-nose. Can you offer any validation on that? Id love to keep not worrying about pests in the summer due to a thriving bat population. Adaptation can happen quickly, but not without a dramatic crash of a population.  Bats don't reproduce as quickly as, say, insects, so "rapid" evolution probably is out of the picture.  Little brown bats (*Myotis lucifugus*), if I recall correctly, can live over 25 years. Cool, thanks for the answers. I remember seeing that populations are actually rebounding in some areas. Can you think of any reason why this would be?

I'm really eager to hear good news about this but am dubious... There's been some promising new developments [such as a bacteria that can help them fight the infection](http://www.nature.com/news/bacteria-may-help-bats-to-fight-deadly-fungus-1.17820) but it will take decades to recover the over six million bats that have already died. The populations haven't recovered but caves that were down to a handful of bats have seen the trend reverse from a loss of bats to a slow gain in perhaps the low hundreds to thousands (I can't recall the numbers off hand). This may suggest that the bats are developing some sort of resistance. The fungus was originally native to Europe and while we do observe bats occassionally exhibit symptoms of white-nose syndrome in European caves (and some die) we don't see the mass die-offs there that we have seen here. This is a good time to bring up White Nose Syndrome or Pseudogymnoascus destructans. It's a fungus that is absolutely devastating bat populations in the Eastern US and moving up into Canada and West across the US. WNS attacks bats while they are hibernating while their immune response is slowed. It has a 97% mortality rate in colonies consisting of smaller bats. It's current death toll is approaching 10 million and pushing certain bat species to the brink of extinction. This has always been so sad to me. Very few people realize the importance of our bats, it seems. 

I've recently read a study that indicated the number of times a bat awakes during hibernation (due to threats, changes in climate affecting arousal time, etc.) may be related to how devastating the White Nose Syndrome is.  Well, the infection itself rouses the bats from their hibernation causing them to burn off their fat storage. The fungal infection is literally eating their skin scarring and even making holes in their wing membrane. After awakening and booting up their metabolism so many times, that storage runs out and they must forage in the winter when food is extremely scarce. Ultimately they succumb to starvation.   I work with conservation biologists in southern Indiana. WNS is becoming a huge problem here, and some of the people I work with are very concerned that we're going to lose our bats. 
 I have a pet hedgehog and his specific breed is originally from africa...they used to have the ability to hibernate without dying but lost it as they where brought over to europe and america. If he gets to cold like under 60ish degrees they will go into hibernation and if not woken within 72 hours they will die, they just end up starving themselves. Moral of story keep hedgehogs warm. [deleted] Never heard of pets going into hibernation. What animals do?  Weird question - of its a pet is it nessesary? Pacman frogs (AKA ornate horned frogs) are known to hibernate if the weather gets too cold or the conditions get too dry. Sometimes you can make them come right out of it by misting the tank or raising the temperature a little and it's kind of cool to see. 

My first frog died during hibernation. He was breathing but just wouldn't come out of it, then one day there was no more breathing. I was a young noob at the time so I think his overall care may have played a part. RIP in peace Murderface.  Hedgehogs will if they get too cold. Typically, they (or at least the species I own) have to stay above ~70F or they will attempt to hibernate. Not having access to the amount of food to 'fat-up' for winter, they would die.

I actually saved my hedgehog from this, though it was my fault anyways. I had just moved his cage/area down to the basement, and while the temperature was fine, the floor was not heated. I woke up one evening and noticed he hadn't moved or ate his food yet which he normally does anywhere from 10-12. So, I went to get him up and play with him a little, make sure he was fine and get some 'cuddles' in. He barely moved when I tried to pick him up, so I immediately knew something was wrong. His tummy was super cold. Way too cold. I freak out a bit, but he had reacted and moved just enough that I knew he wasn't dead. I went to The Google quick while I had him wrapped in his blanket, which informed me to place him on my chest and cover us with lots of blankets, using body heat to gradually warm him up.

It was a pretty scary experience, and it was likely more being too cold too quickly that would have killed him than the hibernation, but within the vein of thought.

Otherwise, no. It is not necessary and, generally, is a problem is they attempt it. A lot of reptiles do, think of turtles :)
They need to hibernate to sync their reproduction. And they found that by not letting your reptile go into hibernation, that they will live shorter. 

The specific way of hibernation temperature, light and surroundings really depends on the species! How do you tell if an animal is starting to hibernate? Is it a seasonal thing? What about places that don't have seasons? Yes it is a normal way for animals in nature when winter sets in, temperature drops and light decreases to get ready for hibernation. If you do not self decrease light/temperature then your reptile won't go into hibernation - causing it problems. Turns out reptiles that normally would go into hibernation but if you don't they will have shorter lifespan.

I don't know about places where there are no seasons.. I'm just a beginner in the reptile/amfibia species :D [deleted] Visited Oregon Caves last summer before we entered they went over this. They do not allow any gear that has ever been in an infested cave to enter.

Granted it really is just clothing as this cave is only a small stroll on a guided tour. Is there any hope for the bats? I live in NY and we used to have hundreds of them all the time. I never see them any more, and the bugs are getting out of control! I was in some new York caves recently and the guide said populations are very slowly coming back. Those that survived it/had some sort of immunity are breeding and hopefully things start picking up soon. [deleted] So if an animal is in hibernation or torpor, how long would it take for them to be in a state to escape a predator? Like if a predator showed up, I would assume the animal would be screwed. But can they regulate at all the speed at which they come out of that state? [deleted] This is not completely correct. "Hibernation" actually refers to the whole season of reduced metabolic rate in endotherms, which in most mammals does consist of periods of torpor. The two are not mutually exclusive.  
  
There are different kinds of hibernators. Some, like chipmunks, cache a lot of food in their burrow, and their survival depends on having collected enough food to get them through the winter. Other small mammals go the entire winter without eating or drinking (for example, the 13-lined ground squirrel, which I study). In this case, they need to build up enough fat before the hibernation period to sustain them for the winter.  Side question, why do you choose to study the 13 lined ground squirrel specifically? Well, I use 13-lined ground squirrels as a model organism for studying metabolism during hibernation. They're really easy to keep, and hibernate really well in captivity. But what I'm studying (mitochondrial metabolism) likely applies to most hibernators. I hadn't heard of them before, [they are cute!](http://wildlife.ohiodnr.gov/portals/wildlife/Species%20and%20Habitats/Species%20Guide%20Index/Images/thirteenlinedgrdsql.jpg) I studied golden mantled ground squirrels and can I just say thank you for clearing up some of the misconceptions around the terms torpor and hibernation! Also ground squirrels, marmots, and other "true" hibernates tend to reach near ambient temps (4 degrees Celsius!) which is a far riskier situation than bears, which lower their temperature far less. How do they avoid a metabolic/electrolyte crash when they start eating again? I don't really understand the question. Are you asking how their systems deal with a flood of nutrients after fasting? In humans and many other mammals, resuming normal food intake after living off your fat for a long time causes a whole series of problems. As I understand it, when we live off our fat without food for a long time, our basal metabolic rate drops and we use alternate metabolic states, like ketosis, to keep ourselves alive. The problem is that ketosis consumes many minerals and electrolytes needed for *normal* metabolism, so the body no longer has an intracellular reserve. When food is reintroduced, the normal metabolic process (glycolysis?) resumes, but there are not sufficient mineral reserves to maintain it. The resulting imbalance is very likely to kill you; it's called ["refeeding syndrome"](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Refeeding_syndrome). 

Since your squirrels live off their fat for months, they obviously have a way around this particular problem. I want to know how they do it :) Well, the squirrels do get ketotic, but they don't urinate during the hibernation season so they don't lose any ions. Keep in mind that when the squirrels are in hibernation, their metabolic rates are reduced &gt;95%, so it's not really equivalent to a normally active mammal fasting. &gt; Most mammals do what is call estivation or torpor. Which is a much lighter form. 

[Aestivation](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Aestivation#Mammals) isn't necessarily lighter than hibernation, the difference is that 'aestivation' refers to dormancy in the hot *summer* months, whilst 'hibernation' refers to dormancy in the cold *winter* months.

Also, aestivation is actually very rare in mammals, being limited to only a handful of species. Correct, most mammals torpor.  To add to this point, it's easier to rouse an animal in torpor over the winter as opposed to hibernating animals.  I would imagine predation is less of a problem for animals in torpor than one that's hibernating. "Torpor" and "hibernation" are not mutually exclusive. Many small mammals do hibernate, which consists of many months of repeated bouts of torpor. Also, while it is possible to rouse an animal from torpor, it takes several hours for the animal to be mobile, so that doesn't really negate the threat of predation. &gt; most mammals torpor

Teaching moment: Torpor isn't really a verb, it's more correct to say "are torpid" or "enter a state of torpor". The underlying reason for this conundrum was first outlined by Ronald Fisher and is still known as [Fisher's Principle](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fisher's_principle).  It doesn't just hold true for mammals, but for most sexually reproducing organisms.

To explain why, first I have to clear up a bit of a misconception.  You say:

&gt; So, I was thinking.. optimally as a specie to survive, wouldn't it make more sense to have X females per male?

But in truth natural selection favors things that help individuals, not species.  Something can be great for a species or terrible for a species, but that won't effect whether selection favors it.  Instead, it favors things that help individuals, even if those traits are less than optimum for the species as a whole.

So, why have equal numbers of males and females?  Well, basically, imagine a situation where 100 females were born for every male.  Now imagine some individual has a mutation that causes them to produce more male offspring, instead of just having 1 in 100.  All their male offspring will do _very_ well.  They'll go on to impregnate dozens of females and produce lots of offspring.  The gene for having more males will spread.  The gene for having more females will not keep up, because individuals with that gene will only produce females, and those will only produce a few offspring.  Eventually, though, there will be lots of males.  At that point, it will be the _males_ who have trouble finding mates, while all females are guaranteed a chance to get lucky.  And so production to produce more females will be favored.  This all evens out to favor a nearly 50-50 sex ratio at birth.  Basically, selection favors having offspring that have the most opportunity to reproduce, and this means having offspring of the less common sex.  This is known as negative density dependent selection. This really explained it well/succinctly for me. Thanks. This kind of stuff seems obvious when it's explained to you. It's very intuitive, makes you wonder why there are so many misconceptions and myths about natural selection. Yet beware of "[truthiness](https://en.wikipedia.org/?title=Truthiness)": the gut feeling that if something seems reasonable to you, it is likely to be true.

It seems obvious to us now that the continents shift (S. America fits right into Africa), but it was equally obvious to our predecessors that continents are big, immobile chunks of rock. I sense that this is true for a lot of "evopsych".  I have it in quote because I have a friend who actually is an evolutionary psychologist and she hates the pop psych articles and discussions that most people think of when we say evopsych.  Basically, all of the "evopsych" assertions seem to fit in with 1950s gender roles, and while there is probably some shades of truth to discussions about how "men like X trait because it signals fertility" and "women like Y trait because it signals he's a good provider" the full truth is actually way more nuanced and has a very broad definition of what constitutes X and Y, plus has a ton of influence from culture and isn't as ingrained as we think (e.g. breasts being very sexualized in the U.S., but not in many African cultures). That sounds interesting! Does your friend have any recommendations on books to read as an introduction to "evopsych"? The Red Queen by Ridley is a book that is relevant both to evo-psyche and, as fate would have it, OP's question. Great read! Nice call back to 1993. I think I must have have read it way back then. It's one of the major reasons that I got into genetics. I re-read it a little while back, and it totally holds up. Recommended reading for anyone. Thanks! I'll check it out this week :) There's this book by Richard Dawkins, "The Selfish Gene", you could read that. The ideology is very strong and comes off as misanthropic to some readers, but it explains the idea very well. How is there any ideology in The Selfish Gene? Honest question, at least I didn't pick up on anything like that. I really liked "The Gap" by Thomas Suddendorf. I was lucky enough to be able to visit his evolutionary psychology lectures at the University of Queensland. He has a very sophisticated but easy to digest style of writing and is simply a great teacher. His book explores the  differences between us and our closest living ancestors and how they came about. It's the only book that a professor ever recommended to the class that I read in bulk instead of chapter by chapter according to the lecture. "Sex At Dawn" is an interesting book at the topic. It argues against earlier evolutionary psychology ideas, and points out that our actual evolutionary background was in small, egalitarian, high inter-related groups without a massive division between men and women.  From a different discipline, Stephanie Coontz's books do a great job of presenting information about family structure from the social science perspective. She has a specific book on how the 1950s were an anomaly, but how they are held up as a model ([The Way We Never Were: American Families And The Nostalgia Trap](http://smile.amazon.com/Way-We-Never-Were-Nostalgia-ebook/dp/B001FSJ994/ref=la_B000AP9GI2_1_2?s=books&amp;ie=UTF8&amp;qid=1434550214&amp;sr=1-2)). 

And [Marriage, A History](http://smile.amazon.com/Marriage-History-How-Love-Conquered-ebook/dp/B002I1XRZY/ref=cm_cr_pr_product_top?ie=UTF8) which looks at a longer time frame in dealing with human relationships and how that relates to the current model of emotion based marriage and reproduction. 

 It's VERY easy to make pretty much any behavior seem intuitive and as if it's in line with evolution.  I can imagine that it's very annoying to actual evolutionary psychologists. I find it interesting that rationalization (what you're describing) and all the cognitive biases that produce logical fallacies seem to be universal human traits, and therefore biological in origin.

In other words, we need evolutionary psychology to figure out why we do evolutionary psychology so poorly.  &gt; all the cognitive biases that produce logical fallacies seem to be universal human traits, and therefore biological in origin.

Indeed, in my opinion (based loosely on cognitive science study at uni, mostly on being bored and thinking) most of these come down to our brain being hyper sensitive to recognising patterns.

We (unintentionally) employ logical fallacies because they give us an easy way to interpret data such that it fits in with our existing "patterns" - confirmation bias is probably the easiest and best example but I think a lot of them come down to the same basic idea of "disregard things that don't match the pattern, value those that do".

You could take something like ad hominem - we take one existing datapoint (this person is bad because X / wrong about Y) and extrapolate it (therefore they are probably wrong about Z). We've managed to make a complete (if inaccurate) set of observations from our single datapoint - anything this person says can be assumed to be wrong. Yay, patterns. Perfectly right, human brains are the best things we've ever seen when it comes to pattern recognition. Eerily good in fact, miles ahead of computers and other species. This is why IQ tests come in the form of patterns to be predicted, and why we have all these cognitive biases. &gt;  "women like Y trait because it signals he's a good provider"

Obviously we can't know exactly how the prehistoric people lives, but in most surviving hunter-gatherer societies women bring 60-80% of the food so they're the main providers, and there's some archeological evidence to suggest that "cavewomen" weren't just passively waiting in their caves for men to bring all the food either. Maybe it's more fitting to say "women like Y because it signals he has good genes".
 I was thinking more that both men and women like traits that signal a person is a good provider/more fertile.  Like, the mainstay of survival is that children are able to be produced and grow up healthy enough to have their own kids.  So, two parents who are more fertile and who both provide more to the family resources would be more likely to pass on their genes.  Men and women are likely not inclined to look for an entirely different set of traits in each other.

I definitely want to put a big ol' disclaimer on all of this that my degrees are a BA in Biology and a MD, so I'm certainly no expert on evolutionary biology or evopsych. Do you have any sources for men not being sexually responsive to breasts in many African cultures? The exaggerated breast size in humans compared to our close relatives looks like such an obvious case of sexual selection. Or it could be more a case of form follows function.  The form that would maximize infant survival would be favored as the surviving infants would then have the opportunity to mature and pass on the trait.  
 Can you elaborate on that? Why would round supple breasts increase survival? The oldest theory I know of is that its a signal of fertility and ability to feed offspring. A more recent theory puts forth that it's a secondary sexual display. As our ancestors transitioned upright and began having sex facing each other rather than from behind, breasts enlarged and became more round to mimic a well developed female posterior, so TL;DR: Butts on their chests. Is there something that we may one day discover that will disprove natural selection, do you think? You have to dig a little deeper into what you mean by "disprove". Since the scientific method became the prevalent means of determining truth, there have been relatively few cases where fundamental scientifically-established beliefs have been found to be completely wrong. What tends to happen is that the foundations of a belief are affirmed, and less fundamental aspects of the belief are found to be incorrect. So we may find that some aspects of natural selection don't match our current beliefs, but we are unlikely to find that the core tenets of natural selection--variation, differential reproduction, and heredity--are false. That's an interesting thought. Do you have any ideas of what aspects might be disproven, that might not match our current understanding of natural selection? Things like eusociality that might not fit in so obviously with natural selection as we understand? &gt; Do you have any ideas of what aspects might be disproven

I'm not well versed enough in current theories on evolution to elaborate. I just know that the core tenets have been observed so thoroughly (in bacteria and fruit flies, for example) that they are very unlikely to be disproven. No, eusociality works because we understand that selection at the level of genes also occurs; and selection applies to reproductive members of a species, kind of by necessity. 

We might get more of an understanding of horizontal gene transfer playing a bigger role than we suspected, for example. We know that overwhelmingly inheritance has been linear, but the examples of horizontal transfer have been very interesting. 

There's probably also a lot more *depth* to the story, especially with respect to our understanding of how genotype really interacts with phenotype. Epigenetics is a big thing. An epigenetic phenotype can certainly be selected for, and it seems that in some placental animals (ie humans) that epigenetic state can kind of be 'programmed' into offspring - the effects of starvation during pregnancy on infants born at term, for example. But that kind of selection is probably working on controller genes  - genes that switch other genes on and off, or at least up and downregulate them - so their effects are very hard to predict. 

So, overall, I think the story is likely to get more complicated rather than get shown to be profoundly wrong. Which is yet another problem for science education - biology is already hard to get across to the general population.  I can give you an idea of how ideas change in evolutionary biology. For more than a hundred years we thought that evolution could only happen over large time scales. In the early 1980's a couple of authors working on guppies transplanted between populations of high predation and low predation found they evolved very rapidly by natural selection.      
      
So we refine ideas, but on the whole natural selection isn't going anywhere.  It couldn't have been that much of a mystery, with how we quickly come up with new breeds of pets, plants, and cattle. But I do know what you mean about evolution being thought to happen very slowly in nature. &gt; It couldn't have been that much of a mystery, 

Yeah, it's surprising how some things that seem so intuitive in hindsight didn't occur to earlier researchers. On this point, you're more on point than the average argument. Darwin was a breeder and developed a lot of his theory with artificial selection. The Origin is *full* of information about artificial selection, basically saying "If I can modify this pigeon so much, then nature must have the same ability."  There have been some interesting disputes about how sexual selection should be viewed, and whether sexual selection, as it's conventionally understood, actually happens at all in nature. I can dig up some articles about that if you're interested. I would be interested, yeah. I have access to journal subscriptions but I don't use it for my own interest enough, it'd be good to be pointed to something to read about and help my research skills a bit. Okay! Here's the core of the kerfuffle (or most/all of it, possibly). I suggest reading them in chronological order, since many of them are responses to the previous articles. You can probably skip Roughgarden et al. (2006), but I don't think that the rest of the papers do a particularly good job of explain what Roughgarden's proposed social selection actually is.

Carranza, J. (2009). Defining sexual selection as sex-dependent selection. Animal Behaviour 77, 749751.  
Carranza, J. (2010). Sexual selection and the evolution of evolutionary theories. Animal Behaviour 79.  
Clutton-Brock, T. (2009). Sexual selection in females. Animal Behaviour 77, 311.  
Clutton-Brock, T. (2010). We do not need a Sexual Selection 2.0nor a theory of Genial Selection. Animal Behaviour 79.  
Roughgarden, J., and Akay, E. (2010a). Do we need a Sexual Selection 2.0? Animal Behaviour 79, e1e4.  
Roughgarden, J., and Akay, E. (2010b). Final response: sexual selection needs an alternative. Animal Behaviour 79, e18e23.  
Roughgarden, J., Oishi, M., and Akay, E. (2006). Reproductive Social Behavior: Cooperative Games to Replace Sexual Selection. Science 311, 965969. Maybe our understanding of it will be shook significantly, but the fundamentals are proven We're about as likely to disprove natural selection as we are gravity. We see it in motion today through studying modern organisms. We see it's effect on evolution throughout history.

One thing that's become increasingly more obvious over the years though is that natural selection is hardly the only (or even the most important) force that's shaped the way that the world has evolved. Genetic drift (random chance) has had incredibly important effects on our evolutionary history as well. Natural selection?  Doubt it, since it is a logical consequence of any system that reproduces imperfectly.  Evolutionary theory would have a very hard time if we started to uncover [precambrian rabbits](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Precambrian_rabbit), but I somehow doubt that is going to happen. We'd have trouble finding precambrian almost-anything-most-people could-think-of. Yes, partly from age and partly due to a lack of hard structures to fossilize.  Precambrian sharks would also cause problems, and they leave behind piles of teeth in an environment reasonably suited to preserve them. &gt;it is a logical consequence of any system that reproduces imperfectly

THAT'S the description I was looking for. I remember reading a Dawkins book where he talks about natural selection in galaxies, and I realized it's a logical consequence of something, but didn't quite put to words what it actually was. Thank you. [deleted] Disprove? Maybe. For a very interesting look into how we've had to *extend* natural selection, check out [Punctuated Equilibrium](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Punctuated_equilibrium), aka, "If evolution is constantly happening, why did the dinosaurs stay relatively the same for millions and millions of years?" The answer turns out to be very interesting. I think the hard part about disproving natural selection is that it can be explained by math. If gene A is more fit than gene B, those with gene A will reproduce more often (definition of fitness) thereby selecting for gene A. So the only way I could think of disproving it would be to disprove that more fit gene would be passed on less....but that's the opposite of the definition of fitness. So I'd go with a no on the idea that the very basics of natural selection could be found wrong. Other input? [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] You probably would be very interested to read The Selfish Gene by Richard Dawkins, which devotes hundreds of well written and fascinatingly detailed pages to questions like these.  Fantastic book. Also should be noted that the title refers to a paradigm where you look at it as "survival of the gene" rather than "survival of the individual" and especially not "survival of the species". I'm pretty sure most people would see the title and think it's about a gene that makes people inherently selfish. Also worth noting that while there are exceptions there is almost always some intricate reason for it. Social insects is the classical example, where the vast majority is sterile-female workers and only a small proportion consisting of queens and males reproduce. You're right, except it doesn't work for all eusocial insects. The termites don't have the same inheritance system that explains it bees and ants. We're still not sure why the termite workers don't 'cheat' and start reproducing to increase their own fitness.  How do naked mole rats work into this? Animals that have 'queens' can break things a little.  
Imagine you're a naked mole rat. If you help your parents have lots of kids then those kids will have a lot of the genes that you have. That means that by supporting the colony but not breeding you're still helping to spread your genes. Then if the queen needs to be replaced, the new queen will be your sibling (or you) and have a lot of the same genes that you do. [deleted] I am only familiar with this system in bees, so what I say may not be true in ants, but: The queen is not copying any DNA. The reason this system works out this way is because male bees (and I assume ants) are haploid, and thus only have one possible copy of each gene to pass on. There is no shuffling of the paternal alleles, because he only has one allele for each gene. This also works because the Queen can control the sex of her offspring by choosing whether to fertilize *each individual egg*. Eggs that get sperm are diploid and female, eggs that do not are haploid and male. Yes, that's true, I mis-remembered that part! She stores gametes from him though, for later batches of workers, but doesn't copy the genetic material. Bees and ants are members of the same group of insects so they have same inheritance system and this applies to both groups.  [deleted] Lol is this sarcastic? He was confirming it is also true in ants, as you said you weren't sure. Worth pointing out that while this is an important explanation that most ant colonies aren't monogamous (meaning the queen mates with multiple drones). So while ants are 75% related if they're full sisters, most ants in a colony are not full sisters. /u/AnecdotallyExtant up there giving me a hard time for not being confident that what I knew about bees applied to ants, and what do you know, there is a very important difference. 

Bees are monogamous due to the whole exploding penis thing. Though I'm not sure how effective it is. I know the queen mates with multiple drones. I'm sure this is just me being dense. But 75% + 50% = 125% right? I don't see how the "relatedness pie chart" can add up to more than 100%. Or is a pie chart the wrong way to look at it? [deleted] OOooooohhhh OK now I get it. Thanks! First, there's a thing called alleles I need to explain. Every particular gene may come in different variants, those are called alleles. So every individual always gets **two** copies of all genes (one from the mother and one from the father). Now, you can look at it this way: 

The queen passes on **one** copy of every gene  half of her alleles  to every daughter, which alleles are random (so there's a 50% chance for every particular alleles). Let's say she only has one gene, two alleles, for simplicity's sake, we call them A and B. All workers also get allele C from the father, which is identical for all workers.

Now, any worker may end up with either AC or BC, so they're guaranteed to share 50% DNA with all siblings, and they share 100% with half of the siblings. So, on average, 75% because (100+50)/2=75. [deleted] &gt;  because their paternal DNA is identical! 

No.  [A queen will mate with like 12 - 40 males on her mating flight](http://www.cals.ncsu.edu/agcomm/magazine/winter08/n_mating.html).

Pick any 2 bees in a hive, and they're almost certainly half-sisters with different dads. [deleted] You nailed it.  
  
However, I would point out one thing, while you may not be able to go "this person has a similar genome to me" there is some evidence in humans that people are naturally predisposed to have a more positive attitude towards people who have similar genes to them.  

For example a study on friendship and genetic similarity:  
[Washington post article on the study a year ago](http://www.washingtonpost.com/national/health-science/research-human-friendships-based-on-genetic-similarities-beyond-the-superficial/2014/07/14/8aea04fe-0ab5-11e4-8c9a-923ecc0c7d23_story.html)  
[Actual study](http://www.pnas.org/content/111/Supplement_3/10796)  
 &gt; Animals that have 'queens' can break things a little.

It's much more important than "break[ing] things a little"; these are the exception that *prove* the rule.

If you go look at Fisher's conjecture, you'll see that these exceptions break the guidelines he laid out. It's not just naked mole rats, but many other species as well.  Actually, sex ratio at birth in naked mole rats is 1:1 (TIL).  But then, mole rats have both male and female workers, so maybe that's got something to do with it.

https://books.google.com/books?id=5J3xQkF1sHwC&amp;pg=PA144&amp;lpg=PA144&amp;dq=sex+ratio+mole+rats&amp;source=bl&amp;ots=7A4elnC7hX&amp;sig=vsC9jlBiLyFfe9g_qVWkxHzoX1I&amp;hl=en&amp;sa=X&amp;ved=0CCkQ6AEwAWoVChMIiPz0-KWVxgIVQQisCh28sQCS#v=onepage&amp;q=sex%20ratio%20mole%20rats&amp;f=false Its also interesting to point out that the ratio of men to women born is not 50:50 but rather 52:48 historically.  




There are benefits for a population of a species that has a certain amount of competition between males; it generally improves the gene pool. There was an experiment with beetles where this was the conclusion, but I cannot find it ATM.  I'm not convinced by this argument. The difference in ratio that you underline may be more related to the fact that males die more often before reproducing than females ( males more sensitive to diseases due to testosterone). Competition may play a role too, but diseases take a bigger toll at very young age. [deleted] There isn't an actual 'gene for producing males'. This is a mathematical model for how sex ratio is maintained. If there was a highly skewed population and within there was a random mutation that made the Y chromosome 'aggressive' in gamete production, then there would be a 'gene for producing males'. In populations with even sex ratios that same gene would not have a selective advantage and would probably disappear over time according to an equation that describes 'persistence' of a neutral mutation (assuming it's neutral, it may actually be selected against.) In mammals, sperm either carry an x or y chromosome and eggs always carry an x. 50% of sperm have x, 50% have y. So you might think there is no way for sex ratios to be regulated because it's just a race to the finish line. Well, not quite...

The female of many species can "control" to some extent which sperm get to fertilize the egg, and the sperm themselves may be better suited to finishing the race depending on the genes on their X or Y chromosomes (and interactions with other genes, epigenetics, etc). Beyond this, the mother can regulate whether the zygote survives. Carrying young to term is energetically costly, so there is a benefit to terminating a zygote before it becomes an energetic cost if it gives the mother a chance at offspring with the most fit sex. The exact mechanisms are different from one species to the next but the ability of species to regulate sex ratios appears to be the rule, not the exception.

Here's a source (without a paywall to boot): http://icb.oxfordjournals.org/content/early/2013/07/26/icb.ict081.full

TL;DR: not a single gene, but many genes, epigenetics, and hormones that regulate gene expression Well, if nothing else you have plenty of species that use temperature to determine sex. Or the weird haplodiploid method insects use.  It's also possible to selectively abort male or female fetuses.

I wouldn't be surprised if human method really is just a random coin toss, but that's a convenient way to get a 50-50 ratio.  But there's still good theoretical reasons to do so. &gt; But in truth natural selection favors things that help individuals, not species.  Something can be great for a species or terrible for a species, but that won't effect whether selection favors it.  Instead, it favors things that help individuals, even if those traits are less than optimum for the species as a whole.

This may be true for the instant question, but is this true for everything?  Surely there are things that help social animals as a group but that might not be optimal for individuals in that group.  Like not every member of a tribe/flock/herd being a sociopath. 

Not a rhetorical question.

 It's important to realize that the operational level of evolution is the gene, not the population, nor the individual. (This is a loose quote from someone else and I'm forgetting who.)

One of the classic examples is animals that call out when they see a predator. At the individual level, this gene is almost suicidal. But if it kills the host and saves three siblings from being eaten(each carrying half the host's genes) then the gene has made a net win and will propagate.  &gt; One of the classic examples is animals that call out when they see a predator. At the individual level, this gene is almost suicidal.

There's an interesting variation on this where an animal will tell a predator that it's been spotted, so there's no use continuing the hunt.  This saves both predator and prey energy.

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Signalling_theory#Honest_signals but the prey doesnt want the predator to save energy. the prey prefers the predators to die off from starvation so there will be fewer predators.

also, the prey wants to not be spotted so that it can warn its offspring in the future. it's better to warn on two or more occasions .. than just once The idea there isn't that the prey cares about saving the predator energy. It's that the prey knows that if it calls out the predator, then the predator will be less likely to attack, because it would be a waste of energy.    
   
So the prey isn't looking out for the predator's energy expenditure, it's using it against the predator. And in the process saving itself the energy of having to run and hide.   

&gt;It's important to realize that the operational level of evolution is the gene, not the population, nor the individual. (This is a loose quote from someone else and I'm forgetting who.)

It's the primary theme in the Selfish Gene by Richard Dawkins. It's probably the most important idea in evolution after Darwin's theory. &gt; probably the most important idea in evolution after Darwin's theory.

How about that genetic information is stored in every cell and passed to future generations in DNA? The selfish gene idea follows from there. Clearly, it doesn't follow trivially, since it took about ten years after Watson and Crick to first be seriously formulated [deleted] &gt; It's important to realize that the operational level of evolution is the gene, not the population, 

This is not always true. The operational level of selection is phenotype, which can be affected by more than just the gene. Epigenetics for instance can change the expression of genes, the environment has phenotypic effects, etc.       
    
There are currently two highly opposed camps among evolutionary biologists, some that will argue the gene-centric view, and others that will argue a multi-level approach that includes individual fitness along with group fitness. Some of us think that the gene centered view is too constrictive, and the MLS view is misguided at best. I think it's important to remember that selection always happens on phenotype and individual selection is the major selective unit.      
     
(Edit: There was a [discussion](http://www.reddit.com/r/evolution/comments/38wxeb/are_genes_the_unit_of_natural_selection/) in /r/evoution about this recently and a few professional evo biologists chimed in, you can check it out to get a sense of what I mean.) Also, it's not always clear what a "gene" is.  When you've got a bunch of genes that interact to produce a final outcome, the fitness of any particular gene depends largely on what set of other genes are found around it.  Frankly, it's kind of surprising the "atomistic" view of genes (disregarding those interactions) works as well as it does.  

The difference between organism level and gene level is clearest in those situations where selection is obviously acting on single genes--transposons, things like that.  I think gene level views can be very useful elsewhere too, but I don't think they are the be all end all. &gt; Frankly, it's kind of surprising the "atomistic" view of genes (disregarding those interactions) works as well as it does.

This seems to fit into the general idea of using first order approximations while higher order effects add corrections. To first order, you can analyze the roles of individual genes. Going to second order you would look at interactions between gene pairs, third order would be looking at gene triplets or a gene pair interacting with a single gene, etc.. Of course there are cases where a high order term is anomalously important, but for the most part they apply corrections to the first order approximation.

I haven't studied much biology, but this is the picture that comes to my mind. So there's a lot of controversy about this topic, known as group selection.

Personally, I'm of the opinion that selection acts on lots of scales, but selection is usually strongest on the individual level.   But you have to think through the implications clearly and in detail.  For example, in your "sociopath" example.  In animal behavior/game theory, we call these individuals "cheaters".  They take resources but don't contribute value.  And under most conditions, they do actually take over the group.  But not always.  For example, cancer cells are cheaters.  But because only one egg and one sperm produce the next generation, cheaters are wiped out every generation and can't persist.  But if you have a situation where cheaters can spread from group to group (like for example flocks of birds, where birds can leave one flock and go to another) cheating behavior abounds.  Another way to reduce cheating is if all individuals are related.  In that case, helping relatives is genetically speaking a lot like helping yourself.  And finally you can have a situation like occurs in human groups, especially small groups...humans are really good at identifying cheaters.  Cheaters get noticed by other group members and excluded, so cheating doesn't actually wind up paying.

There's a lot more going on that I'm not getting into, but that's a brief introduction. &gt; Personally, I'm of the opinion that selection acts on lots of scales,

There is some groundbreaking work that suggests that shows there is "species" selection, described from the fossil record, but it doesn't closely resemble the "group" selection you show. 

The evidence for "group" selection as you describe it is very weak and generally takes the form of absurd what-ifs (haystacks etc). I'm sure there are some reasonable examples but the lack of common, strong examples really helps show that your claim that individual level selection isn't just "usually" the strongest, but is almost certainly very much stronger than others in most cases.  [deleted] &gt; It's called group selection and the math just doesn't work.

The [math](http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/j.1558-5646.2012.01835.x/abstract) works out pretty well, and there is [evidence](http://www.nature.com/nrg/journal/v15/n12/full/nrg3851.html) for group selection happening in nature. There's even [species-level selection](http://www.sciencemag.org/content/330/6003/493.short) happening in nature. What we don't know is how prevalent it is. Here's a simple example of group selection that works mathematically. 

Let's say **S**elfish individuals produce 3 offspring per generation, **A**ltruistic individuals produce 2, everyone starves to death if a habitat has a density above 20.

..........habitat1 habitat2 habitat3 habitat4  total

Gen 1     S3A0.....S2A1.....S1A2.....S0A3......S6A6

Gen 2     S9A0.....S6A2.....S3A4.....S0A6......S18A12

Gen 3     S27A0....S18A4...S9A8.....S0A12....S54A24

Gen 4     S0A0.....S0A0.....S27A16..S0A24....S27A40 But if I produce three offspring that are better competitors than your two, they will out-compete yours, then they will compete among themselves for the limited resources. So the best offspring I produce will have the greatest fitness, and the individual still prevails.  That's assuming at least one will survive, which doesn't have to be the case, which is pretty much how group selection works. Like altruism?   It's also important to realize that many species of animals live in symbiotic relationships with other species. In fact, I believe this is the primary reason for humans being so successful. We have more symbiotic relationships that any other species on the planet. &gt; We have more symbiotic relationships that any other species on the planet.

Source? Not condescendingly asking, legitimately curious. 
 This doesn't explain why the equilibrium is a 50/50 split. Does monogamy vs polygamy affect the ratio at all? What about other environmental factors? &gt;Does monogamy vs polygamy affect the ratio at all? 

Oddly, no.  Consider deer, for example, which are highly polygamous.  Female offspring have a very high chance of having a few offspring (because they nearly all breed, but also can only have a few babies over their lifespan).  Male offspring have a low chance of having a _ton_ of offspring (because they will either have none, or be the male in charge of a harem and father most of the babies in the herd).  It works out that the overall fitness (number of expected offspring) is the same for both male and female, it's just that the manner of getting to that point is different. Welleach child must have a mother and a father, so the total number of children had by males and females is the same. In that way the overall fitness being the same follows directly from having a 50/50 sex ratio. So the fact that there's equal fitness doesn't really seem like a reason for there being a 50/50 split, just a different way of saying it. Still doesn't explain why the Nash equilibrium is 50:50. u/clue_balls explained it's caused by the fact males and females each have the same number of offspring, as a child has both a father and mother. This makes more sense to me, and I found this paper that lays out all the assumptions in the model: http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/economics/14-11-insights-from-game-theory-into-social-behavior-fall-2013/lecture-slides/MIT14_11F13_Sex_Ratios.pdf &gt; But in truth natural selection favors things that help individuals, not species. Something can be great for a species or terrible for a species, but that won't effect whether selection favors it. Instead, it favors things that help individuals, even if those traits are less than optimum for the species as a whole.

This is not correct. Evolution selects for traits that further the chances of those traits propagating,regardless of whether its good or bad for an individual that possesses it. eg. Bees that have a very high chance of death upon stinging.

Fishers principle assumes that in a population with a male to female ratio of 1:1, a new offspring would equally contribute to the fitness of the population regardless of its sex. If we were to perhaps discover a very social species with division of labour based on sex, then evolutionary pressures may favour an equilibrium other than 1:1

edit:spelling In other words having 1:1 males:females is a [Nash equilibrium](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nash_equilibrium). Thanks, I never realized that Natural Selection is happening on the individual level.
But are even the lower mammals selective in finding mates? I would assume rodents would not be particularly selective when finding mates.. But I am not sure.  It isn't necessarily that a conscious selection is taking place. It's often that the 'weaker' candidates are already dead before mating occurs, ie they have been 'selected' out. Well, evolution does not act at the level of the individual.  Evolution is the change in gene frequency in a population.  It acts at the level of the gene. Interesting.. why would the ration of men/women not cycle as a sine way between say 70-30%? It probably would at first, but the fluctuation would level out over time and settle on an even sex ratio.  &gt; natural selection favors things that help individuals, not species.

That is mostly true isn't it. But in a situation where two groups of the same or different species are competing, random mutations that happen to help the group but make no difference on the individual will also be favored won't they? Hold on. This whole line of reasoning is based on the idea that there can be a gene or gene family or some other kind of genetic instructions that have something to do with sex determination other than the presence of whole chromosomes.

We would have to evolve *an entirely new sex determination
system* to escape the 50/50 male to female ratio. Every woman has only x chromosomes to pass on, every man has an x and a y. Since one sex chromosome (the first x) is a given, that means each individual offspring has a 50/50 chance of getting an X or a Y from the father and being the resultant sex. 

Now, that is a big change from one whole sex determination system to another. It's plausible that any intermediaries were not viable. And let's not forget that evolution isn't working toward anything. It just *is*. There are plenty of de novo mutations or gene variants that can bias sex towards one way or another, and it's not exactly uncommon for entirely new sex determination systems to pop up...in particular, reptiles have a multitude of different methods ranging from environmental to different genetic methods.  If there was no benefit toward a 50:50 sex ratio, you'd _expect_ to see it vary quite a bit across the range from all male to all female.  The fact that it is pinned to 50:50 very closely does demand an explanation.  It's not enough to say "evolution isn't working toward anything, so anything could happen".  Just like saying "God did it", it can be used to handwave any possible situation. &gt; We would have to evolve an entirely new sex determination system to escape the 50/50 male to female ratio.

But we don't *have* a 50/50 M/F ratio.  

Here's a [link](http://www.livescience.com/574-survival-fetus-males-rough.html) to a story (not the original place I saw it) that describes how environmental factors could affect the M/F ratio of embryos and live births, as well as an evolutionary explanation for why it makes sense to have the system in place.

tl;dr: cortisol levels allow mothers to be to cull male embryos, which can happen in response to low resource environments.  In low resource environments (when babies might starve), females are much more likely to reproduce.  In high resource environments (where all babies mature), males are more likely to have many offspring (fathering a child is so much easier than being a father to a child, innit). [deleted] &gt; the *primary* sex ratio is still 50/50, the *secondary* sex ratio though is not.

Ok, I'm not into the literature enough, but do you have a source for that. My layman's understanding is that more males were conceived than females, and higher embryonic mortality for males still left them with a slight majority at birth, but shortly thereafter is when the genders achieved numerical parity.

[Wikipedia link to support](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_countries_by_sex_ratio) Primary sex ratio is the ratio of zygotes or fertilized eggs.

Secondary sex ratio is the sex ratio at birth.

Tertiary sex ratio is the ratio of reproductive adults.

Sometimes Quaternary sex ratio comes up, and that is the ratio of post-reproductive adults.

[Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/?title=Sex_ratio#Types_of_sex_ratio)

I am under the assumption this conversation is about primary sex ratio. when using a 1:100 ratio, it sounds very reasonable.

but it is not at all obvious why the equilibrium should be exactly 50:50 .. why is it not, say, 40:60 ?

using your argument, mutations will pull it toward 50:50, but there would be just as many mutations pulling it the other way. 

remember, OP's question is looking at something which is not at all symmetric: the length of the breeding cycle, so my common sense tells me that a different equilibrium point to 50:50 is perfectly reasonable to assume.


if anything, given the differences between m&amp;f, explaining a 50:50 ratio in terms of random mutations feels "not quite right". i suspect we should look at how chromosomes mix and explore a "quantum"-type explanation behind it.
 I asked a related question a while ago and never got an answer - The above explanation seems fine but the problem I see is that only males can determine the sex of the offspring. So if a mutation happens so that males produce more Y sperm than X, his offspring will also produce more Y so it is re-inforced. If a mutation produces more X than Y, this cannot be passed on because the next generation (being the X half) has no say in the sex of the next generation.

So drift is only in one direction towards males. Mutations that produce X &gt; Y or Y &gt; X need not be placed on the sex chromosomes though.

Anyway, you're right that your scenario will drift towards males. However, going further, it will actually drift towards extinction (low reproduction rate) unless the change actually benefits the colony in some way. Males determine the sex of the zygotes.  However, the female could have adaptations that select for more successful female embryos or less successful males.  Things like different conditions in the womb, hormones, etc. could favor female offspring.  And, of course, after birth, they can also favor females with more care/milk/etc.  So a male producing mainly male sperm might wind up with far fewer surviving offspring than a more sex-balanced male. &gt; . The gene for having more females will not keep up, because individuals with that gene will only produce females, and those will only produce a few offspring.

If this is true, it implies that some individuals must be capable of having a specific proclivity for birthing more males or more females.  

Can we therefore assume that a pregnant couple who has produced 5 daughters, has a higher than average chance of their next child being a daughter as well? I had a question. If natural selection favors individuals as a whole why are there mostly female bees or female ants. Also why are there homosexual humans? One thing I disagree with on your explanation.  There are definitely traits that are hypothesized to help the species, and not just the individual.  The Gay Uncle theory is one such, and there are more examples in this very thread.  In fact, species that tend to live in colonies (like ants) tend to counter what you said about selection.  But I would agree that, in general, selection is usually about the individual.

Second, something I don't understand about your explanation: 

&gt;The gene for having more females will not keep up, because individuals with that gene will only produce females, and those will only produce a few offspring.

Why?  Since females are contributing half the genetic material to each offspring, why would they not continue to pass on the more-female-gene?  Also, why are the females at a disadvantage for reproduction in this scenario?  They are still mating.

The differences in male vs. female reproduction don't make sense with your example.

&gt;Eventually, though, there will be lots of males. At that point, it will be the males who have trouble finding mates, while all females are guaranteed a chance to get lucky.

This makes sense because females can't get pregnant twice (at the same time).  So too many males creates competition for available-pregnancy-time.  But the opposite is not true: men can impregnate multiple women simultaneously.  Having more male children doesn't necessarily give you an advantage if all the women are already pregnant. &gt; natural selection favors things that help individuals, not species

I'd challenge that statement. Group evolution is a common concept. https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/821380.Myths_to_Live_By mentions it and gives a good number of sources. Obviously not everyone agrees, but it's far from a decided issue. &gt;it favors things that help individuals, even if those traits are less than optimum for the species as a whole.

I'm sure this is true as the logic is sound.  But what are some good examples of this? Imagine a gene that confers some propensity to jump on a metaphorical grenade. It would save the group, but eliminate the individual. No gene of that nature could persist over time because the individual with that gene would have a severe fitness reduction. The individual without that gene would live on and reproduce.  If the whole group would die when a grenade isn't jumped on, then there is no survival advantage of avoiding to jump on it (as the single member would die too either way, being part of that group). If on the other hand we presume just some of the group to die, then there could be an advantage for the altruist gene to survive in groups with lots of same-genes (twin) offspring, provided of course not everyone will come across a grenade all the time. &gt; Instead, it favors things that help individuals, even if those traits are less than optimum for the species as a whole.

This is misleading, I think.   In the context of the rest of your argument it makes sense, but I think "survival of the fittest individual" is a common misconception of evolutionary theory.  There are a lot of complications and caveats.  For one, the fundamental unit of natural selection is the gene (go read the modern classic 'The Selfish Gene" for one sort of elaboration).  And there are species that reproduce via a "spray and pray" method - aquatic animals like salmon come to mind.  They lay tons of eggs and only a tiny fraction survive to maturity.  That method is horrible for "the individual", if you are one of the fry that statistically are going to be eaten, but good for the genes of the parents since at least some of the offspring will survive to keep those unique genes in the gene pool.

More generally, fitness is a complex trait that can include the fitness of your species (ie, if you are a social animal and your pack or troup is doing well, this can increase your hunting and foraging success, mating success, general security, etc).

As for sexual reproduction assuring a 50:50 distribution of the sexes, you argument makes some sense, although I think there are exceptions.  One that comes to mind are social insects - don't they have dramatically off kilter male-female ratios?

 [deleted] 
You mentioned that natural selection favors individuals and not species, but your example goes on to describe natural selection balancing male/female ratios on what seems like a species (group) basis. Can you elaborate on this just a little bit please.

Cheers For any _individual_ it makes sense to have male offspring if there are more females around, and female offspring if there are more males around.  This leads to a species-wide balance of sex ratios, but that's not the reason for it.  The reason is the benefit on an individual level. &gt; At that point, it will be the males who have trouble finding mates, while all females are guaranteed a chance to get lucky.

It seems like this is usually the case already in most species, with males killing themselves by making a spectacle of themselves to attempt to attract a mate, also attracting predator species.

\*not a biologist.
 Our evolution is driven on the individual level and the group level. How else would stealing and labor division simultaneously exist? Right? Good explanation but incomplete as it doesn't address epigenetic components [deleted] But if mating is seasonal and pregnancy lasts less than 1 year, then birth cycles don't reduce the effective population of females.  So I would guess the explanation is that in most cases "long" birth cycles are not long enough to make any difference. Can you provide an example of a trait that was beneficial for the individual but detrimental or just undesirable for the species? Great comment! I was thinking about this topic a while ago. Your resolution makes more sense than my half-baked theory.

I was thinking about the topic from the framework of not only why is there a 50-50 gender distribution, but also why do humans and some other mammals with long gestation periods and single offspring tend to favor the behavior of pair bonding, as opposed to say one male impregnating many females. I came to the conclusion that it's because pair bonding leads to greater genetic diversity than the alternative. Genetic diversity is especially important when the mammal has to invest a significant amount of time and resources into a valuable offspring. Humans have a very long gestation and development period. High genetic diversity ensures you have the best possible output from the long gestation period.

However, this conclusion gives rise to another problem. If genetic diversity is desirable why then do humans continue to remain in the same pair bonded relationship even after one offspring has been had? Certainly shuffling partners after a single offspring would lead to greater genetic diversity and as a result greater efficiency. Am I wrong? Perhaps I'm not thinking about something. &gt;If genetic diversity is desirable why then do humans continue to remain in the same pair bonded relationship even after one offspring has been had? Certainly shuffling partners after a single offspring would lead to greater genetic diversity and as a result greater efficiency. 

Well, shuffling around has lots of costs, for one thing.  You may not find someone better than your current mate.  You may not find someone at all.  You have to put energy into courting.  You might get chased by angry relatives after you leave their daugher/sister/brother/son in the dust.  

Plus, it takes a long time for a child to mature, so you might as well have more kids while you are waiting.

That said, even with all those considerations serial monogamy isn't exactly unknown among humans. The Selfish Gene by Richard Dawkins is basically the beginning of evolutionary psychology. I suggest reading it. Good answer. It all comes down to "stable evolutionary strategy". Contrary to many people's beliefs, (and as you almost said), evolution via natural selection works at the GENE level (as explained in "The Selfish Gene"), and the phenotype expressions of these genes act at the individual level, the highest level of organization that this can be said about. "Group selection" is more or less unsupported by evidence. Individuals who "deviate" from the norm would take advantage of the group and set a new standard, but from an stable evolutionary strategy no deviation (or almost no deviation) will provide a net benefit to the deviant. But what if in your example, there is never a mutation that where there are more male offspring.  

It seems to me that natural selection would would preferentially adjust the sex ratio to be female-biased, as only a few males are needed in order to fertilize all of the females.   If there were too many males, competition between the males will result in some failing to mate, and the production of those males would therefore be a waste.  
  Imagine your species has 100 females per male.  Great for pumping out more of you, right?

Now, imagine you are one of those females about to have a baby.  You want to get an advantage and have more grandchildren than the other females.  What do you do?

Have a MALE baby.  Because he will have like hundreds of offspring.

There is a metastable relationship between how the GROUP can reproduce faster (more females) and how an INDIVIDUAL within the group can reproduce faster (more males, up to a certain point).

So you will see some species with 1 - 1 pairing, and some with harems of females, but basically never have harems of males. Clownfish can be either female or male, at any point in their life, depending on their group dynamic.

There is one female and multiple males living in one group. Though, only one male is the "mating" male. &gt;optimally as a specie to survive, wouldn't it make more sense to have X females per male?    
    
The first thing is that evolution doesn't really care about the species very often. There are very few systems where selection above the individual level has any strong effect.        
  
Any individual offspring has a parent from each sex, therefore, each sex has an equal fitness on average. If there were more males in a population than females then the average fitness of females would be higher, because each female would have more offspring on average. Since females have a higher fitness, genes for daughters would be favored. That would select for more female offspring, which would drive the sex ratio back to around 50%. The same is true if there were more females, the sex ratio would be evened out by selection for more male offspring.     
     
&gt;Since most of the historical evolution has been based on survival   
     
This isn't as true as you might think. There are mechanisms of evolution besides just natural selection and one important mechanism is sexual selection. Sexual selection is an increase in fitness because of sexual attractiveness. In systems where sexual selection is important, the female is often choosy and the male usually has to compete with other males for mates. In these systems the female that chooses the highest quality male, will have "sexy sons", meaning that her male offspring will be attractive to the females, so they will have higher fitness. This increases the female's inclusive fitness, which includes the fitness effects her offspring have on her own fitness. So there are situations where it is advantageous for females to produce male offspring.   The fact that every offspring has a male and female parent doesnt mean that males and females have equal fitness. If 95% of females in a population successfully reproduce but only 1% of males successfully reproduce then they don't have equal fitness at all.  It does mean that on average.    
Each offspring still has a parent of each sex. Even if some males never reproduce, the average fitness of the sexes as a whole is necessarily equal because the sexes produce offspring at exactly the same rate..  [deleted] While increasing the percentage of female offspring would improve the rate of reproduction for each species, mutations that might lead to a greater percentage of female offspring wouldn't offer a survival advantage to any individual generation. tldr: If there are more females than males, genes that tend to produce more male offspring have an advantage and vice-versa. So they do, until the balance reverses and those genes are disadvantaged. What you end up with is a sex ration that hovers around 1:1, and tends to self-correct if it gets away from that ratio. normally sexual development is based upon a binary choice because of the way sex cells form its such a fundamental adaptation that each offspring has a 50/50 shot at getting the y chromosome.  The success of an organism isn't contingent upon it's ability to mass reproduce, it's the ability to have the right sized population to sustain itself in the biological niche that it has evolved to fill.  humans for example are apex predators, you can see what happens when our population overstresses the environment we live in, we deplete it, pollute it, and render it to be a marginal habitat so then we have to colonize other environments to send resources back to the heavily populated one.  Not all animals are capable of this level of organization.  With us we're starting to see negative effects on our atmosphere, the oceans, fresh water sources, etc. because of our populations in areas that cannot support that many of us.  

Long term success as a species is a balance that you have enough to reproduce left over after predators and natural causes of death, but also that your own food species are successful in outpacing your predation and other causes of death.  Populations with genes that result in this proper balance survived while those without it didn't reproduce fast enough or over populated and died of starvation. &gt;Why don't we see mammals where there are 100 females to 1 male?

there are some gator pops, that might be heading this way due to the way temps select their sex.. too high and they are mostly female and their are worries that due to global warming, the pops will die out because the cooler temps needed to make males will no longer be available.
 No expert here, but I think that its similar to "why haven't all plants evolve to be poisons" - because evolution does not work towards the "perfect" model, its just whatever works best at some point. If it survives, it multiplies then there is no need for improvements or the improvements do not stand out from the rest since they all pass on their genes.  [deleted] Thanks for the explanation. I especially liked the part about the gonosomes and autosomes. I had to read your answer twice before I understood it, but other than that it is good. Sorry, but this hasn't got much to do with the question. It seems like you are explaining how sex is determined, with the X and Y chromosomes, which in mammals are determined by the male sex cells (gonosomes). Your explanation of this is good, but it doesn't address the issue: what if males wouldn't produce a 50/50 ratio of X and Y sperm? What if 10 X sperm gets produced for every Y? Or, conversely on the fertilisation side of things, what if either the X or Y sperms get some kind of advantage over the other so that they swim faster or fertilise more effectively? Or if XX eggs have different survival probabilities in the womb compared to XY eggs? These are the things that would skew the sex ratio of a species. There isn't a "male" or "female" allele of a gene that can be favored via natural selection.  Rather sex is determined by a random 50/50 separation of homologous chromosomes during Meiosis I.  So it works on a different principle than other traits that might appear in populations to varying proportions.

Since it operates on such a different mechanism, it's not going to apply to evolution the way genes do.

Edit:  I'm just commenting on sex determination at conception.  I did not mean this to be a blanket statement about all populations necessarily being in a 50/50 ratio.  I'm sure there are many ways after conception that a species can change the ratio by allowing only a certain sex to survive past conception. That's completely true, but not all conceptions progress to birth. There could be genes which makes the foetus more likely to be terminated by the mother's body. Sorry, but that is completely insufficient to explain what we see.

If you read many of the other answers in this thread, you'll see that 50-50 is actually the only evolutionarily stable strategy for most species. Selection works on individuals, not a species, and the best strategy to have the most offspring is to have more the of the least common sex. If the population is mostly females, having males gives you more offspring, so is therefore advantageous. The population then trends back to 50-50.

Your answer completely fails to explain species that don't fit the pattern. 50-50 is a simplification; what is actually stable is equal parental investments in each sex. For example, with elephant seals, the male pups take three times the amount of parental investment because they must be raised for longer, and drink much more milk due to their size. A mother could raise 3 females for the investment of raising one male. This is exactly the ratio we see - there are 3 times as many females as males, which is exactly what you would expect when you realize individuals are selected, not species. Your explanation fails here - elephant seals also have xy for males and xx for females, and also undergo meiosis to make sex cells. Where did you get the fact that elephant seals have a sex ratio of three females to one male? Because i could not find any evidence for what you've stated. I was thinking about this the other day actually. It might not be politically correct, but my thinking is that it is because humans are so fragile for so long after they are born (most animals are adults in such a short time compared to us) so I figure the best chance for the survival of the child is to have a father and a mother ( I'm thinking caveman days, not trying to offend anyone). I was actually trying to figure out why people tend towards monogomy, and I figure this could be the reason. I don't think most single mothers with a baby would last very long in a survival situation without a strong male there to protect and feed them. That sounds so sexist just typing it out....  Forget about people's feelings what you should be most concerned about is the truth This shouldn't offend anyone its true, I've read some journals on why we evolved to live so longer. One good theory is that the older people could stay and tend the children while the younger went to hunt/forage.  The issue is you're trying to project relatively modern, primarily Western social norms onto our deep evolutionary history. Hunter-gatherers lived (and where they exist still live) in small-ish communities with different levels of hierarchical structure and a high level of cooperation between all members. Well it's less sexist then many other comments, at least in a way that the most explanation tries here focused on sexuality, breeding and evolution. I think the social and functional means of parenting are an important factor, and a single parent is per se a worse situation than having two parents (doesn't matter if male or female, though, but as OP's scenario featured a many women:few man ratio, it was reasonbale to asume single mothers anyway). Not to insult nowadays single parents of course, but it has some disadvantages indeed. [deleted] The okcupid study found that the women sampled rated 80% of men as less attractive than average. Men tended to rate women pretty much on a bell curve (a few unattractive, a few extremely attractive, and a bunch in the middle). However, they also found that these same men only attempted contact with the top 25% of women. The women, on the other hand, were interested in contact with the men fairly equally, even though they'd just rated them as less attractive than average. 

As far as STIs go, it's generally easier for women to become infected. A lot of STIs require the infected cells to actually enter the blood stream before a person can catch it. The nature of sex means the vagina is more likely to have micro tears that will allow an infection to occur. Your numbers don't necessarily mean that most women are getting laid by a minority of men. It just means that it's easier for women to get an STI. For comparison's sake, look at the rates of infection for gay men. They are *much* higher than the rates for straight men because the anus is *extremely* easy to tear during sex. If HPV was tested for, that would skew the results as well. HPV is extremely common (the most common STD IIRC), but there currently isn't a test available for men. You've got the right idea, transmitting STD's is all about mucous membranes. The mouth, anus, urethra, vagina are all lined w/ permeable mucous membranes, when you consider the surface area of the male urethra vs the surface area and design of the anus and vagina there's a much higher likelihood of transmitting disease through anal/vaginal contact.  Also while the mucous membranes in the penis are exposed to vaginal and anal secretions or blood these orifices receive a deposit of ejaculate.  Sex acts cause small tears in the membranes making transmission more likely.  Pretty similar for the mouth, while tearing may not be as likely an issue any open sores or bleeding gums would provide easy transmission.   Are you assuming that greater population/birth rate implies greater chance of survival as a species?  I don't think this is the case.  What you see instead in a lot of mammals is pickiness on the part of the female with regards to who to mate with.  A large talent pool of male candidates means a female can choose more carefully, and therefore have a better chance of having successful offspring.   We don't know if there's a maximum temperature.

In certain models -- string theory is one of them -- there is a maximum temperature called the *Hagedorn temperature*.  This arises because the number of possible high energy states increases sufficiently fast that as you put more energy into the system, it gets spread out over more and more states in such a way that the temperature decreases less and less for a given amount of heat put in.  Net result is that there's a temperature that is the upper limit of the temperatures that can be reached.

I'll add that even in string theory, some people think the Hagedorn temperature might not be an actual limit, but more an indication that there is a phase transition (like when a liquid turns to gas), but that's even more speculative. Could stuff get so hot/energeric that all atoms breaks into its componants. And moves about close to the speed of light? interestingly that is what happens. Above a certain temperature (temperature of the electroweak phase transition) all standard model particles become massless and will thus move at the speed of light.  Atoms will be decomposed at much smaller temperatures though.


Edit: In order to explain some things and hopefully create less confusion I decided to explain  it in a bit more detail.

If you go to higher and higher temperatures there will be some phase transitions (and interestingly it would be the inverse of cosmological history !). The first one is pretty basic. Atoms will be ionized and you will have a plasma. Increasing the temperature further will lead to a decomposition of the nuclei and it will become a quark gluon plasma. Due to the high temperature/energy also usually not occuring particles like exotic quarks will appear aat different points of temperature (this depends on their masses).  If you go to even higher temperatures the higgs field will leve its broken phase and go into a symmetric phase (there is an awesome analogy with a metal rod. if you do not know it you could look it up. It sows the other direction, but still is great.). When this happens the vacuum expectation value of the higgs field gos to zero. Thismeans that it will not lead to particle masses anymore I can't find the metal rod analogy - could you explain? Consider a metal rod that stands on the ground. The whole setup is rotationally iunvariant if you rotate along the axes defined by the rod. Now if you apply enough pressure on the top of the rod it will bend in a special direction (much better to visualise with a picture), which in turn breaks the symmetry of the system. This is what happened to the higgs field. A kind of pressure forced it into a non-symmetric state. If you go to high temperatures this pressure will be gone and it will be symmetric again. The same would happen to the metal rod if there was only elastic (reversible) deformation. 

At least for the first part of this was mentioned in the Nobel prize talk of Nambu IIRC. If something is still unclear feel free to ask.

Edit: I just checked the slides of the talk and indeed there is a picture of the rod. I guess if you watch the lecture there will be a nice explaination. I cannot check that because I am at work. Both can be found [here](http://www.nobelprize.org/nobel_prizes/physics/laureates/2008/nambu-lecture.html) interesting! thanks. If the particles are moving close to the speed of light, wouldn't their mass approach infinity, as m=E/c^2? The thing what happens at some point is a phase transition (think of liquid water changing phase to vapor). In the one phase (the so called symmetric phase) there is nothing that gives the particles mass and in the other one (which we are used to) most particles have a rest mass. If you have a massless particle it will not get any mass because of its energy as in the case of the photon. Okay, this thread is thoroughly confusing me now. We're discussing temperature. But temperature is just the speed/energy of particles, isn't it? If I'm understinding this thread, at a high enough temperature, particles lose their mass through a phase transition (unable to interact with the Higgs field?). But if temperature is just particle energy then what we're really saying is that at a high enough speed particles lose their mass. Am I misunderstanding the relationship between temperature, energy, and speed? (Or is it velocity?) Are we saying, for example, that if a human were somehow able to accelerate indefinitely, getting closer and closer to c, accumulating more energy, they would suddenly lose their mass at some threshold and fall apart, and all their atoms would "devolve" into subatomic particles as if in a particle accelerator? That doesn't make sense to me, and I don't think that's what you're saying, so clearly I'm misunderstanding something. Or is that correct...? Temperature is a statistical quantity of an ensemble of particles. This means a single particle does not have a temperature. So a single particle can be accelerated to close to the speed of light without getting massless as long as there is not a background of other particles that are hot enough.

To clarify once more. consider a moving  particle like an electron . It got a definite mass if it is using through space. If it was in a plasma of temperatures of a TeV (imagine a plasma lik in the sun ust imuch much hotter)  on the other hand it would be massless So, in a very real sense, _temperature_ is an emergent property.  I never really considered that.  Thanks. Temperature, if you commonly think of something inherit to an entity/object, is not real. Temperature is the energy movement from one entity to another.  Pretty sure that's heat. Temperature is the measure of the average kinetic energy of all particles in a system. Right?  &gt; If the particles are moving close to the speed of light, wouldn't their mass approach infinity

Yes, in one interpretation, but my opinion is that it's a very flawed one. Einstein used it a lot, but I think it can lead to a lot of misconceptions about relativity and mass. I find it's a lot easier to discuss *total energy* and *momentum*, which together form something called a Lorentz 4-vector, which have a magnitude equal to the mass.

&gt; as m=E/c^2

No, that equation is valid only for particles at rest.

The real equation is:

E = m c^2 / sqrt(1 - v^2 / c^2 )

where m is the *rest mass*, v is the speed of the object, and c is the speed of light. Note that as v-&gt;c, E-&gt;infinity because the denominator approaches 0. That's why you can't ever go faster than the speed of light, more or less: You would need an infinite amount of energy just to reach it in the first place.

This all assumes that m is independent of v (which it would seem to be, because it's the *rest* mass, after all; i.e., the one that you would measure if you were in the same reference frame as the particle.

The thing about this discussion is that you don't care about the reference frame of each particle, but the frame in which an arbitrary box will contain particles whose momentum, on average, cancels out. In *that* frame, the particles would lose all their mass, at least as seen in the effect mass plays in interaction whose center of mass is that frame.

But that doesn't mean they would have no energy, just that it would be proportional to their momentum. That's because my equation is actually not fully correct. The *real* equation is:

m^2 c^4 = E^2 - p^2 c^2

where p is momentum. That's the equation of the magnitude of the Lorentz vector, basically Pythagoras' theorem when one dimension has imaginary units (so when you square that length you pick up a negative sign).

For massive particles, momentum is just mass times velocity *but* multiplied by that 1/sqrt(...) factor if you need to take into account relativistic effects. But for massless particles, p = h f, where f is the frequency of the wave that represents the particle and h is Planck's constant. That describes all hyper-relativistic particles (ones for which mc^2 &lt;&lt; E), at least to good approximation.

But that's *not* what is meant when we say that the particle masses vanish. It's not just that the m^2 c^4 term remains constant but becomes insignificant in comparison to the other particles, but that it *actually becomes smaller* and then vanishes. There is an extra part to that equation if you want to factor in momentum *become virtually mass-less and thus move at 99.999999999999% C

Quarks still have mass! No quarks do not have a mass above the temperature of the electroweak phase transition. All masses in the standard model are proportional to the vacuum expectation value of the higgs. At high temperatures the higgs field is in a symmetric phase, which means that the expectation value is 0. Thus making all particles massless. how do massless particles make up an object with mass? confuzzled :O The tl;dr is that particles don't HAVE mass. They are given mass by interacting with the Higgs field. Physics hurts me in places I didn't know I could hurt.

I'll just sit over here in my little biology microcosm, where things are dead or alive, proteins active or inactive... Very simply, think of it like wind resistance.

The Higgs field is like the air, and the massless particles are regular objects.

Do you HAVE wind resistance? Like, were you born with it? No. If you start moving really fast, you'll get some though. And different objects will have different amounts of wind resistance - a dart vs a parachute for example.

Most of what people are talking about here around phase transitions and the like are sort of similar to asking what happens to your wind resistance when you break the sound barrier, when you crash into the ocean and start moving through water, or when you get into the vacuum of space. Brilliant analogy, thank you.  So staying with the wind analogy, surface area is the most important consideration in determining "wind resistance."  What attribute(s) of particles has the most effect on its interaction with the Higgs field? The Higgs field hasn't been measured to be increasing by any chance, has it? I'm struggling to find an explanation for all the extra mass I've acquired since college. Awesome analogy! 

How do massless particles like photons fit in here?  Wow, that made a lot of sense. Thank you. Is this to say that when something achieves a sufficiently high energy state it may no longer be interacting with the Higgs field, and thereby no longer have temperature, as such? That temperature is definably realted to mass? &gt; where things are dead or alive

How about viruses? (viri?) Viruses are non-living. They were never alive so they can never be dead.  Viruses are non-living because they do not metabolize energy, do not grow, and do not develop.  Don't sell yourself short. Nothing is simple in biology and anything that looks simple is only so because we can't handle thinking of it in its actual complexity so we simplify. Biology arises as an emergent phenomenon from the beautiful physics and chemistry that underlie it. Dead/alive...simple until you think of things like viruses and prions. What even constitutes a single organism when you think of super organisms such as ant colonies or slime molds or humans in a city? When does that live or die?Active/inactive proteins?? Proteins are chains of pieces of sticky chewing gum that fold in intricate ways to form vibrating blobs of atoms that jiggle through uncountable microstates and internal conformations with unbelievably complicated dynamics that utilize quantum-mechanical effects including quantum tunneling to catalyze all the reactions in the insane web of reactions we call life. (https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Enzyme_catalysis). We like to subdivide some of these internal microstates into ensembles that we call "on" or "off"....or inactivated...or pre-active or voltage dependent active, or use dependent active.... 

That all being said, discussing the upper limit of temperature by string theory is a serious mindfuck. I think with biology things are so actually complex and our understanding of biological laws so weak when compared to the laws of physics that we don't even know enough to be able to phrase similar questions so succinctly in Biology. 

Anyways tl;dr, bio only simple because too complex and we oversimplify so our heads don't explode. &gt; where things are dead or alive

Oh now come on, you can't say "physics is hard" and then follow up by saying "things being alive or dead is a black and white topic". Well in biology, if you accept the consensus for the [traits of life](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Life#Biology), it is pretty black and white. At what point exactly in apoptosis does a cell "die"? If an enzyme is denaturing due to heat or pH, at what point exactly does it cease to be an enzyme and become merely a peptide chain?  &gt; At what point exactly in apoptosis does a cell "die"?

When it no longer has an active metabolism. There are residual reactions after cell death but the nucleus does not have any control on the cell's turgidity or activity.

&gt;If an enzyme is denaturing due to heat or pH, at what point exactly does it cease to be an enzyme and become merely a peptide chain? 

At the point where it is no longer converting it's substrate. You know how people used to talk about aether and how it was that thing that permeated all reality, but then we decided that it wasn't real?

Yeah.  Fields are pretty much aether, and now we think it's real again. [deleted] I feel like this is something I probably should have seen before, but haven't. Thanks a lot for introducing this concept to me!

What an amazing and interesting universe we live in. What's interesting is that this mass only accounts for about 1/80 the mass of a lump of metal. The rest is approximately the quark binding energy. mass is generally a feature of the coupling between particles. For example the mass of a proton is much larger than the mass of the 3 valence quarks.

Also most physicists agree that there is particle called glue ball, which is made up only from massless gluons, but the whole system is a bound state of non-zero mass. He isn't saying that all particles are always massless, just that they all become massless above a certain temperature. So I suppose that at that temperature, the object made up of said particles will also become massless. Right? [Layman here] Since no one's answering I will try to tell you something. We always hear  how the Higgs boson is key to giving mass to matter. Now the Higgs field involves Quantum Field Theory which further develops on Quantum Mechanics and Special Relativity. It is used in conjunction with the Standard Model to explain a large chuck of our understanding of particles. You can simply treat the Higgs boson as one of the many faces/parts of the Higgs field (Yeah I am not explaining anything clearly because I suck at Maths). /u/majoranaspinor is saying that once a certain temperature is reached, the Higgs field turns into a special state where it becomes "symmetric". The particles becomes massless in this state due to it. If it cools down past that point the Higgs field will sort of becomes "normal" again and particles will again be massive. 

Don't worry. I am confused too. What would happen if you heated up a black hole to that temperature and made everything inside it go through that phase transition?  Would it then become massless?  Maybe explode? Anything you used to try to heat up the black hole would disappear into the event horizon. Increasing the temperature of those particles would make them less likely to cross over into the event horizon. I guess if you could massively heat up a tremendous amount of matter and project it directly at the black hole, from all directions at once, maybe it would do something other than just make the black hole bigger. I'll leave it as an exercise for the student to verify this hypothesis. &gt; I guess if you could massively heat up a tremendous amount of matter and project it directly at the black hole, from all directions at once, maybe it would do something other than just make the black hole bigger.

Isn't that roughly the principal of how the higher yield nuclear bombs work?   I'm not sure. With regular atomic bombs it's all about the neutron flux, but with thermonuclear bombs it's about the shock wave that causes fusion of the tritium or whatever fuel they are using. Most likely any nuclear weapon would benefit from some sort of targeted influx of energy, but what do I know? Is there somewhere i can watch an explanation of this?  I do not know of any resources that explains this in easy terms. You can try to look for "electroweak phase transition". If I got time later I can have a look if I can find a source for people who are not theoretical physicists. Are photons made of quarks or are they a separate thing? Photons are an entirely different thing, and result from excitations in the electromagnetic field. Alright, this is something that has always confused me then, do photons HAVE mass, or do they just behave as if they have mass? Also, photons don't have mass but they do have momentum, which can be imparted on things (like [light sails!](http://sail.planetary.org/)). &gt;photons don't have mass but they do have momentum

Wait, what?  If momentum is mass times velocity, and there's no mass, there's no momentum no matter how fast it's going, right?  Or is that one of the things that breaks down at the quantum level and all bets are off? momentum is not mass times velocity *by definition*, that's just the form it happens to take in Newtonian mechanics. The momentum of a photon is its energy divided by c. 

&gt;Wait, what?  If momentum is mass times velocity, and there's no mass, there's no momentum no matter how fast it's going, right?  Or is that one of the things that breaks down at the quantum level and all bets are off?

It doesn't work exactly that way in special relativity. Momentum being mass times velocity is only correct for slow massive objects. For very fast objects, the relation between velocity and momentum is nonlinear. The closer you get to the speed of light, the massive increase in momentum can bring only very tiny increase in speed.

In fact, at speeds very close to the speed of light, most of particle's energy is due to its momentum and you can ignore the mass enterely. These conditions are called hyperrelativistic and are very close to how actual massless particles (like photons) behave. That's the classical definition of momentum, but it's actually a little more subtle than this when relativistic concerns are taken into account. (Just Google "momentum of photon".) Momentum is mass times velocity at the classical *limit* because another additive term goes infinitely close to zero at low velocities.  When you are relativistic, *your* momentum isn't mass times velocity, either.   That's the definition given in Newtonian physics, which is sufficient for most things you'll encounter in your day-to-day life. The problem is that Newtonian physics is really just an approximation of how things work, but it's technically incorrect. 

When you examine things of a size that you're likely to encounter (like a car or a baseball) moving at speeds that you're likely to encounter (like 90 miles/hour), the difference between what the Newtonian model predicts and what's actually happening are so infinitesimally small that you can ignore it and make the calculations much, much simpler. 

When you start examining things that are reaaally really tiny (like electrons) or reaaaly realy large (like stars), or things that are moving near the speed of light, the insufficiencies of the Newtonian model become so exaggerated that it stops being a useful approximation, and you need models like relativity, quantum mechanics, or string theory to explain or predict what's going on.  photons don't have mass but are affected by things like gravity due to their energy When you say that they have energy, are you stating that they have a   non-zero GeV value as well?   Maybe in such a way that yes they're affected by gravity, but not affected by gravity in the more typical way in which only particles which interact with the Higgs field are.  According to the standard model, the mass you get from the Higgs is equivalent to the momentum that photons have. From relativity's perspective, it's energy, not any rest mass, that counts. Photons cause gravity due to the energy in their interaction with the electromagnetic field (that's actually all a photon is), and a particle like an electron gets its mass from the energy bound up in its interaction with the Higgs field, among others. The energy of a photon E = hc/, so it's effective "mass" is just E / c^2, or h/(c). 

This mass value determines how much gravity the particle exerts; get enough light in one place, and it can actually form a black hole. But you don't even need mass to be affected by gravity, since really it's just a change in the shape of space. Under the effect of gravity, straight lines curve into orbits. That's why your mass doesn't affect how fast you fall, you and everything else are just following the same curved path through spacetime. They don't have mass, but they do have momentum (defined by p=h/, rather than the Newtonian p=mv) photons are a massless particle that move at the speed of light, like all massless particles. However a given photon may have a different amount of energy (momentum) then another photon. This variable amount of energy determines a photons excitation state, which we perceive as higher and higher frequencies of em radiation. Radio waves are low energy photons for example, and gamma rays are high energy photons.  Neither of them will have mass, but the momentum contained in their excitation state can be transferred into objects with mass, which will heat and/or push that object. The photon in question will then lose a corresponding amount of energy (momentum) which will drop its excitation state resulting in a longer wavelength, lower energy photon.  Photons do neither. They do not have mass, and do not behave as if they have mass. Interestingly, a system of photons can actually have mass, even though individual photons do not.  Two photons moving in different directions, as a system, have mass. They have energy, but do not excite the higgs field, and thus, do not have mass.

the energy they have does warp space-time though... that's why (with a big enough magnifying glass) you could concentrate extreme energy into a tiny point and make a black-hole without ever having to add physical mass. Photons are elementary particles, ie they're not made up of components. 

Photos are Bosons, ie they're force carriers. Photons carry Electro-Magnetic force [deleted] There is no limit to how much energy you can give a particle by accelerating it, the energy can just keep growing while the speed remains below light speed. Another thing to remember is that as any particle gains that energy it also gains mass.

If a particle were to be accelerated to 99.9999% of the speed of light, it would have so much mass that the amount of energy required to add another nine onto the end of that percentage would be astronomical. In connection to this, also important to remember that this refers to relativistic 'mass' (loosely, the mass calculated from momentum), not the actual mass of the object.  Where "actual mass" means rest mass, the mass measured from within the particle's rest frame (the reference frame where it's stationary). [deleted] &gt;a more energetic particle would experience greater attraction through gravity just like a more massive particle would

Would it be wrong in speculating that black holes could be a single particle that contains so much energy rather than mass that it causes extreme attraction?  I'm assuming those terms when applied to quantum states are more connected than they'd appear.
 The concept of particles in a black hole doesn't really make much sense as the hole itself is smaller than any particle. I'm somewhat unfamiliar with this field are there any good articles to read regarding speculation on black hole interiors? But from the reference frame of the object traveling at that speed, it takes no additional energy than it did before to accelerate the same amount. From the perspective of the object, the rest of the universe is experiencing relativistic effects, not it.

I don't really understand what people mean with this relativistic-levels of heat thing as obviously heating an object to where its particles would be traveling some large portion of C would make it fly apart well before that point... Would it be wrong in speculating that black holes could be a single particle that contains the amount of mass you are describing? So... where does the energy go?

 It's kinetic energy just like you always have from moving objects, but the equation is no longer KE = 1/2 mv^(2). Instead it's 

KE = mc^(2)((1 - (v/c)^(2))^-1/2 - 1)

Which is actually very close to 1/2mv^(2) for low speeds, which is good because it means that's still a good formula in low speed situations. But near the speed of light it blows up to infinity (if you plug in v=c you end up dividing by zero), which means that things traveling near lightspeed have far more energy than we would have expected before relativity. [Here's a graph](http://www.wolframalpha.com/input/?i=graph+%281+-+v%5E2%29%5E%28-1%2F2%29+-+1+vs+%281%2F2%29v%5E2) in units where v = 1 means lightspeed, and with the 1/2mv^2 curve for comparison Couldn't the question be asked a different way: As a particle approaches the speed of light it appears to become infinitely massive and infinitely long - does it also become infinitely hot because it approaching an inability to accelerate? They wouldn't come infinitely long. Things appear to become contracted, not expanded, when approaching the speed of light.  Good correction, but his question still stands. As a particle approaches the speed of light, it appears to become infinitely massive and infinitely *thin* - does it also become infinitely hot because it approaches an inability to accelerate? You shouldn't say "infinitely massive" either, really. It just mixes some old and rather confusing definitions of mass which aren't necessary. It is acceptable mathematically to say that mass increases as you approach the speed of light, but the physical interpretation is wonky. What we're dealing with is momentum, which in Newtonian physics is:

p = mv

In relativistic physics, we can use the force and energy relationships and stuff to find

p = mv

Where  is the Lorentz factor, which scales with velocity (ie  is a function of v, I could write it as (v) but it's implied). The Lorentz factor also shows up in the equations for time dilation and length contraction, it's the "conversion factor" between reference frames in special relativity.

The Newtonian and relativistic expressions are different, obviously. One alternative is to say that the correct expression for mass is:

m = m*_0_*

where m*_0_* is the object's rest mass. This says that mass increases as speed increases, like what you said, and the momentum formula is p=mv just like in Newtonian physics, we just have to use the correct mass.

What I did there was collect the  into the m, and that's fine mathematically, but it doesn't mean anything *physical.* There was no reason why I should collapse  into m instead of collapsing  into v, ie:

v = *_0_*v*_0_*

And then I have p = mv, which is the same as the Newtonian expression^(1). I just have to make sure I use the correct definition of v, just like I had to use the correct definition of m before.

These are two equally viable approaches which say drastically different things. The first option says that mass increases with speed, the second says that speed increases non-linearly with itself, and the third unmentioned option is that momentum increases non-linearly with speed.

Option 1 is what you're describing, option 2 is... extremely confusing but correct, and option 3 is just a modified definition of momentum which disagrees with p=mv entirely. All produce valid results, so it's a purely interpretive matter.

The currently preferred option is #3. Modern physicists thus generally do *not* say that mass increases with speed. The reason for this is that on a more fundamental level, the momentum terms do not necessarily depend on mass (massless particles have momentum, after all), so it gets really clunky to try to artificially insert a scaling mass term into your momentum expressions. You literally have to cram a mass term into an equation which had none, it's a bit silly.

So, rather than saying that mass increases to make a 400 year-old definition of momentum fit, we just chuck out p=mv entirely and say that p=mv is the correct one. p=mv is just an approximation and we shouldn't screw around with the terms in p=mv in clunky ways just to force it to fit p=mv.

^(1. Here *_0_* depends on v*_0_*, not v, which is admittedly confusing but keeps the notation consistent. I'm substituting v*_0_*-&gt;v into mv and then defining v==*_0_*v*_0_* independent of the original meaning of v.) Thanks for the explanation! Great job at explaining. Another correction: an individual particle cannot be hot. Heat is a statistical property of a population.   

I have no idea what the answer is, in terms of a maximum temperature. It also depends in what definition of temperature you are using. Maxwell boltzmann temperature? That's classical by definition. Color temperature? Black body temperature? To be honest, my thermo is pretty rusty at this point. The other people in this thread have s much better grasp of the question.  Thanks for the correction &amp; response!

I should have realized that my question was essentially meaningless before I asked it, but thanks for the reminder regardless. The problem is that in Newtonian physics, there are two equivalent but unique definitions of temperature. In non-relativistic physics they are equal, but in relativistic physics they aren't.

Start with a cubic box containing an ideal gas. We know that:

pV = nRT

but let's break it down more. Pressure is force over area, so what we're saying is:

p = F*_x_*/s*_x_*+F*_y_*/s*_y_*+F*_z_*/s*_z_*

F*_k_* is the force(s) acting on the box's walls in the k direction, and s*_k_* is the area of the side(s) of the box which F*_k_* acts on. F*_x_*, for example, acts on the sides of the box which are in the yz-plane, so the shape whose area is s*_x_* lies in yz.

We can further say that the box has side lengths L*_x_*, L*_y_*, L*_z_*, so s*_x_* = L*_y_*L*_z_*, s*_y_* = L*_x_*L*_z_*, and s*_z_* = L*_z_*L*_y_*.

Since we're dealing with a cube (or, in a moment, a rectangular prism), the volume is, naturally, V=L*_x_*L*_y_*L*_z_*.

Let's boost our box to a new reference frame moving at constant speed v in the x-direction. We know that

F*_x_*' = F*_x_*

L*_x_*' = L*_x_*/

Where  is the Lorentz factor. F*_x_*' and L*_x_*' are the force/length we observe in the boosted reference frame, F*_x_* and L*_x_* are the force/length in the rest frame. All terms involving y and z are unaffected since the motion is purely in x.

Our new pressure is:

p' = F*_x_*/s*_x_* + F*_y_*/s*_y_*+F*_z_*/s*_z_*

Every F*_x_* term picks up a , and every L*_x_* term picks up 1/, so s*_y_* and s*_z_* pick up 1/. Simplifying,

p' = p

For volume, we know that

V' = L*_x_*'L*_y_*'L*_z_*'.

The y and z lengths are unaffected by length contraction, so

V' =  L*_x_*'L*_y_*L*_z_* = (L*_x_*/)L*_y_*L*_z_* = V/

So

p'V' = (p)(V/) = pV

n and R are constant, so 

p'V' = nRT' = pV = nRT

ie T'=T, the temperatures are the same regardless of reference frame. Boosting to a new reference frame increased the pressure (p' = p), but it decreased the volume (V' = V/) by the same amount, so T stayed the same. Temperature thus does not change with reference frame, it's the same to all observers (we call this a "Lorentz invariant quantity").

Well... sort of. The problem here is that what I found is a quantity - T - which characterizes a class of systems which are in thermal equilibrium. Every glass of water at 40 C is different in tiny ways (like snowflakes), but they all fit into a an "equivalence class" where the temperature equates all of them. It's what you get when you put a certain amount of energy into a certain amount of water under the same conditions: you get two different systems (in terms of random molecular motion), but the overall statistical properties are the same. This quantity - which I'll call "empirical temperature" - is Lorentz invariant, ie it's always the same no matter who observes it at what speed.

There is a second definition of temperature, though, which I'll call "absolute temperature." This definition relates the exchange of energy and entropy within the system. We write

t = dE/dS

where E is energy and S is entropy. A change in entropy or S (dS) incurs a change in energy E (dE), proportional to the system's current temperature t (t is absolute temperature, T is empirical). The same relation works backwards, naturally.

So, in two systems with different temperatures, if we add some fixed amount of energy to both, the one with higher temperature experiences a larger change in entropy.

Entropy itself is Lorentz-invariant. I can justify that using the informational definition of entropy (Shannon entropy), which is equivalent to Boltzmann entropy. The energy term, however, is not: we have:

E' = mc^(2) = E

where E=mc^(2) is the rest energy. Since t = dE/dS, we thus have

t' = dE'/dS = dE/dS = t

Which says that absolute temperature scales with speed. This is an *absurd* reduction of the actual math, but it works in the end and I think the point carries through - it's done with rigor [here](http://arxiv.org/pdf/1010.5701.pdf).

In the classical limit we take c-&gt;inf and thus =1, so t=T. In the relativistic sense, though, absolute and empirical temperatures are different things which only correlate at low speeds.

It's not clear which definition of temperature you would prefer to use, so we can't really say whether or not temperature scales with speed. It either does or it doesn't depending on how you want to measure it. This is what experiments like RHIC that try to create quark-gluon plasma are all about.

Well, actually "atoms" breaking into components happens all the time in many common situations because that's just plasma. Odds are you have some fluorescent lights around you - those contain a substance so hot that its atoms break up into ions and electrons. They're not bare nuclei though, just atoms with less electrons than usual.

At a higher temperature, you do get bare nuclei and electrons bouncing around, and then at an even higher temperature, the atomic nuclei "melt" into their component quarks and you have quark-gluon plasma. This has been created in a lab (almost certainly), but only for a very short time and in such a way that it's difficult to measure all the things they want to measure.

I think LHC has some QGP experiments planned or ongoing as well. Thats awesome!  
Also, what do they hope to learn from doing it?? You know, stuff about the early universe (less than a microsecond after the big bang), because it was filled with QGP at that time, as well as fundamental stuff about QCD (the theory of quarks, gluons, and the forces between them). Correct me if I'm wrong, as this is my 2 semester physics understanding... but is this not the basis behind E=MC^2 ?
 No. E=mc^2 just says that mass and energy are the same. That is valid at all temperatures.  If they are the same, and light is pure energy with zero mass, is there something that is pure mass and zero energy? No kinetic, thermal, or any other kind of energy? Fishify, as a fellow physicist I'm a bit disappointed in you for giving in to the standard lay answer here instead of educating people about what temperature actually is.

Temperature is not energy density.  Temperature is a *derivative* of energy with respect to entropy of a system.  It can be positive (the usual case), infinite (rare), or even negative (hotter than hot!).

For everyone who's not already a physicist: 

*Entropy* is the *logarithm* of the *state function* of a system.  The state function is the number of ways you can rearrange the elementary particles in a system, and end up with the same macroscopic description.  Take the logarithm, and you get a measure of how many bits of information are contained in that micro-description (or, alternatively, how many bits of information you're missing even if you have the full macroscopic description of the system).  So a low-entropy system can't be rearranged much without changing your description of it (you know a lot about the system), but a high-entropy system can be rearranged a lot (you don't know much about it).

The lower the energy of a system, the more all the systems in it settle down to their ground state until, at absolute zero, there's generally only one state the system can be in (OK, a very small number of them...).  To get more entropy in the system, you have to add some energy to give the components of the system "room" to jiggle around.

In some systems, the state function is invariant with respect to energy: as you add more energy, you don't change the number of ways to rearrange the system.  Such systems have *infinite* temperature and are "absolute hot" -- regardless of how much energy they contain.

Some even weirder systems can go the other way:  if you overexcite the system, the entropy *decreases* as you add more energy to the system, so the temperature is *negative*.  The obvious example of a system like that is a laser medium.  Such systems are "hotter than hot" and will leak energy into any surrounding normal medium.

So in the best understanding of what temperature actually is, there's no absolute maximum temperature of any kind.

/u/fishify's answer about the Hagedorn temperature relies on a model of flat, empty space and free particles in it: individual free particles in empty space happen to have a linear relationship between their kinetic energy and their entropy, so it's tempting for people to treat temperature as a sort of fancy term for energy density.  It isn't.  The Hagedorn temperature is more of a maximum energy density per particle, than an actual maximum temperature.
 This was the first time I've seen physics entropy put in terms similar to Shannon entropy - I'd only heard analogies the other way around. Neat connection! Thanks!  

It was really quantum mechanics that brought them into the same realm.  In the classical regime, entropy is only defined up to an additive constant since there's no definition of a "unit volume" of parameter space.  But in the quantum mechanical realm there are discrete states to any system, so there is indeed such a thing as zero entropy.  

Entropy is a slippery concept, because physical entropy, like Shannon entropy, really does measure ignorance -- which is something about you, the physicist, rather than something about the actual system you're studying.  It's deeply tied to the idea of quantum collapse, and it can do slippery and weird things like change from observer to observer based on the observers' states of knowledge.  I remember seeing an awesome example in the Russian dusty-plasma experiment on ISS:  they diffused some black and some white dust into opposite sides of the experiment, then imposed a strong magnetic field -- mixing up the black and white particles so the container appeared fully mixed.  At that point, an fresh observer would have assigned the experiment a high entropy (since the particles were mixed up).  But a knowledgeable obesrver would assign it a low entropy since the particles were still highly organized -- even though the organization was not directly visible.  When the field was turned off, the system relaxed back to its original state (black dust on one side, white dust on the other).

 I'm not at all a math major (Drug Rehabilitation), but I've always had a fascination with physics and philosophy, and your explanation actually helped me to understand something that I was previously unable to grasp with some basic research. Much appreciation Same for me here, well I'd actually say you have shed light into new paths and ways for me to think about these subjects! As much as I appreciate your attempt to be more accurate, your answer took me ten times longer to parse, and that's after being able to recall physics and chemistry I learned from ten years ago.

There's value in simplifying for laypeople as much as there is in being correct, so please don't chastise people for making a good faith effort to explain a concept as abstract as temperature. &gt; Fishify, as a fellow physicist I'm a bit disappointed in you for giving in to the standard lay answer here instead of educating people about what temperature actually is.

"Disappointed" is a very pedantic way to approach your criticism. Thanks for adding on more information, but you don't need to do it by defining yourself as better than.
 "is there an absolute hot?" 
Pfft seriously OP don't you realise that entropy is the logarithm of the state function?  The string Hagedorn temperature is entirely speculative. It shouldn't be conflated with the following. The colder quark matter Hagedorn temperature is a real phenomenon that is accessible in colliders. But it's not an absolute hot more than 100 C is the absolute hot in water. Like a boiling point, it is a phase transition. Once there is enough energy per massive particle, the particle can emit a boson that decays into two new massive particles. But if the compression is kept, this is a blob of quark matter.

The string Hagedorn temperature is a higher-temperature analogue. It would tear the strings apart and allow freedom of motion in extra dimensions. But this is another phase transition. It's not a logical hard limit like absolute zero. Is there any correlation between this speculative string Hagedorn theory and current cosmological models? It seems like the forces were unified at the beginning, is this thought of as just another phase transition due to unimaginable temperature?  Yes as far as I can remember Cumrun Vafa et al had written a paper about it. They had conjectured the hagedorn string phase being an alternative to inflation and it smoothly passes over to the radiation dominated era of cosmology. Do different materials have unique Hagedorb temperatures? Exactly the hagedorn temperature only signals the break down of the partition function.  Wouldn't at least the amount of energy and mass in the universe provide a hard upper limit, even in models that don't have the Hagedorn temperature? I mean, nothing can get "hotter" than there is energy in the universe, right? do you mean that the temperature increases less and less for a given amount of heat put in?

why would the temperature decrease when putting heat in? 

it seems like you meant to talk of diminishing returns of temperature with respect to adding heat, but you are talking about diminishing loss of temperature with respect to adding heat, which makes no sense. think it had to be a typo, but i aint a physical man Is it possible to calculate a theoretical max as all particles moving at the speed of light? isn't there a temperature that correlates with the plank length? like when something gets hot it releases higher frequencies of light but the wave length can only be as small as the plank length and if it gets smaller it is theorized that a black hole will appear. but couldn't it be hotter inside the black hole? So entropy keeps increasing since the number of possible states is increasing? In other words, this isn't a negative temperature scenario. Wouldn't the temperature at (or just after) the Big Bang be the highest possible temprature, since everything would be at one place? &gt; that the temperature decreases less and less for a given amount of heat put in. 

Do you mean *increases*? In a hypothetical situation, a giant sphere of lasers point at a single atom or quark or plank length at the centre of the sphere. All the lasers shot a single photon at the same time which will arrive at the same time. By increasing the radius, it seems like there should be no limit to the number of photons and thus energy hitting the point at a given time (other than the size of the universe/expansion). Would that simply create a black hole or could it increase temperature/have other strange effects? Putting enough photons in a small space *can* create a black hole. It's called kugelblitz. &gt; I'll add that even in string theory, some people think the Hagedorn temperature might not be an actual limit, but more an indication that there is a phase transition (like when a liquid turns to gas), but that's even more speculative.

That's extremely interesting, and certainly makes sense given how temperature fluctuations are less linear compared to the average when changing phases.  Plasma is the phase above gas despite never seeing it in practical use due to the high temperatures required, so it's certainly not far-fetched for a phase to be above that. You see plasma all the time, it doesn't have to be super high temperature. Plasma TVs actually do contain real plasma Lets get some comments on this: http://www.quantum-munich.de/research/negative-absolute-temperature/ The Planck temperature is 1.42 x 10^32 K.

At this temperature, the radiation emitted causes quantum gravitational effects.  Lacking a  unified theory of quantum gravity, our understanding of physics breaks down at or past this point. Just to finish off: That high a temperature would theoretically cause a black hole to form (essentially because of mass-energy equivalence)That's a pretty good argument for considering it to be a maximum irrespective of what we know about high energy physics. A black hole formed out of pure energy is called a kugelblitz just wanted to add that in there. So it is called a "ball lightning" ? Yes and no, that is the word used, which means ball lightning in german, but they are not related. Just was about to say that. But I have a question too. How does the matter know what percentage of energy to turn into mass. Let's say you have a baseball at rest. Then you throw it 60mph. What percentage of the energy given to it is used to increase its kinetic energy and what percentage is used to increase its mass? If you're using the convention of relativistic mass, then the additional kinetic energy *is* the additional mass.  How does that work? I'm a little confused. Is all of it adding to the mass? This is what E = mc^2 *actually means*. c^2 is a constant, that never changes, but if you add energy, E, the mass m must also go up too.  Except not quite. That is the simplified equation which deal with rest mass. Mass is just a form of energy. The full equation clears things up and allows you to see adding more energy doesn't mean an increase in mass nessesarily. Often it's in the frequency or kinetic energy increasing.  Yeeeah, that's a short version of a longer equation. Here's the full thing that is used for things in motion: E=(mc)+(pc) 

p here means momentum. If p is zero E=(mc)+(pc)  is the same as E=mc^2 It's mostly just confusing to think of mass as increasing with speed. You have a rest mass that is constant and can be converted to energy via E = mc^2 and then you have kinetic energy. As you add kinetic energy, the total energy of the object increases. This could be considered to increase the weight of the object and will affect it's gravitational pull, but the "rest mass" is not increased.

If you use energy to accelerate an object, you will increase its kinetic energy and therefore its total energy. If you want to be confused you can think of this total energy as the mass. Yeah basically. We're talking about very tiny amounts added though. That 60mph is a tiny tiny amount of energy compared to all of the atoms in that ball. Think of splitting atoms, and the preposterous amount of energy inside of such a small space. The total energy in that baseball, if you could release all of it at once, could probably flatten a small town. The lowest permissible mass for a Baseball is [141.75 g](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Baseball_\(ball\)).  
E = mc^2 gives [1.274x10^16 J](http://www.calctool.org/CALC/phys/relativity/emc).  
Since a [ton of TNT](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/TNT_equivalent) is equivalent to 4.184 gigajoules, then the total energy contained in a Baseball would be roughly equivalent to 3 Megatons of TNT.  
  
To put this into perspective:  

&gt;The Little Boy atomic bomb dropped on Hiroshima on August 6, 1945 exploded with an energy of about 15 kilotons of TNT (63 TJ), and the Fat Man atomic bomb dropped on Nagasaki on August 9, 1945 exploded with an energy of about 20 kilotons of TNT (84 TJ).  

Our little Baseball contains almost 100 times the energy released by those two bombs. Also:  

&gt;The total energy of all explosives used in World War Two (including the Hiroshima and Nagasaki bombs) is estimated to have been 3 megatons of TNT.  

Which is just about equivalent to the energy in the Baseball.

  

Edit: link It gives you an idea about the alcubierre drive needing the mass equivalent of Jupiter to function. Think of it this way:

I put that bat on your shoulder, almost all the weight you feel is caused by the mass of the bat+gravity.

If I *beat* you with that bat, you're still only feeling the mass of the bat, but now *there's momentum* + gravity increasing it's mass to the point that you angrily take the bat from me and beat me with a likely greater mass, as I am not that strong a person.

Energy is mass. The thing about Gravity is that it's not really attracted to mass. It's attracted to energy. 

This is where *e=mc^2* comes into play, it shows how much energy an object has, which is how much gravity attracts it. But that's not the end of it, *e=mc^2* is not the entire equation!

E = sqrt( (mc^2)^2 + (pc)^2 )

P is momentum in this case. The reason that the simplified form applies is because most objects don't have much momentum, on the galactic scale. It only starts being significant when you approach the speed of light. 

Still, when you accelerate something, you slightly increase its energy, and by doing that you increase its effective mass. 

For more reading: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mass_in_special_relativity#The_relativistic_energy-momentum_equation But wasn't the universe this hot in its early moments? Why do you say the word "but"? It's as if you consider there to be a contradiction. If a black hole formed in the early moments of the universe, and we were inside of it (i.e. inside of its Schwartzchild radius), we would have no idea. Life inside of a black hole is identical to life outside of a black hole, the only distinction is the two "societies" cannot communicate with one another, as one considers the other to be smushed. Whoa, I see what you mean now, interesting. I'm starting to think the term "black hole" itself is kinda misleading, at least to normal folk like myself. It sounds more like a "dimensional bubble" or something, haha. Does Planck have a constant on every unit of measurement? Five of the seven base units, yes. There is a Planck Mass, Planck Time, Planck Length, Planck Temperature and Planck Charge.

They're almost all either tiny or large (with the exception of the Planck Mass, about as heavy as a flea egg) and thus you don't see them in use often, but they have the useful effect that fundamental constants just drop to 1 when you do the equations in Planck units.
 Why is the Planck mass so...heavy? I would think there would be a lot of microscopic things lighter than a flea egg. Essentially, it's the minimum mass necessary to form a black hole, although it would only exist for an instant. See:

http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Planck_particle Did he discover them all or did they just give him the name?? I thought the planck temperature was when the wavelength is a plank length so maybe they are all connected. They are all connected, yes.  A body at Planck temperature would emit photons with a Planck length wavelength, which is also to say, photons having Planck energy.  Planck length is also the distance that a photon travels in Planck time, so a wavelength of Planck length corresponds to a frequency of 1/Planck time.  Also a black hole with a radius of one Planck length would have a mass of one Planck mass. :) Another note, just like under the Planck length, this is only a limit to whether we could use our current understanding of physics to predict something. Also at Planck temperature the radiation emitted would have a wavelength of one Planck length. There is no possible way with our current understanding of the universe to measure anything shorter than a Planck length. Isn't it because the wavelength of the radiation would be measured by a planck distance? Also want to add that at the Planck temperature, the wavelength of the released radiation is equal to the planck length. So we assume there IS a way to connect the two. We just don't know it yet.

Am I on the right track? Yes, that is the fundamental assumption that goes into physics research in general. We assume (which is very strongly based on empirical evidence) that all of nature can be described by mathematical models. Assuming that at some point there is a fundamental barrier beyond which we cannot describe nature anymore would be naive and contrary to the above mentioned fundamental principle. [deleted] Thanks for this.  I knew I had learned about the Planck Temprature from somewhere. [deleted] Huh? She couldn't physically possibly be hotter than a kugelblitz. You're not picking up any women spouting nonsense like that. He's saying that she's so hot she defies the known understanding of our universe. Totally beat me to it.
Michael is always fantastic at explaining such questions. If you're interested in "what is the hottest temperature achievable" that may be an unanswerable question (or at least one I cannot answer), but if you want to know the defined lowest temperature, it is -0K. 

It turns out any negative temperature (in K, not C or F) is actually hotter than any positive temp. The temperature scale goes something like this:

0K,... inf K, -inf K, ... -0K

This may seem odd, to answer why this is the case, you must understand a fundamental property of temperature. While temperature is defined as [T = dE/dS](http://scienceworld.wolfram.com/physics/Temperature.html), aka- Temperature is defined as the derivative of energy with respect to entropy. See, normally as entropy increases, energy increases, but you can arrange systems where the opposite happens, as entropy increases energy actually goes down. That means that temperature will be negative. 

Since we know from the Second Law of Thermodynamics that in a closed system, entropy will increase, that means that energy will flow from a negative temperature system to a positive temperature system, because when a system has a negative temperature, by decreasing the energy in the system (heat), the entropy will actually go up (and in a positive system, increasing energy will lead to increased entropy, so entropy goes up there too). 

And that's why negative temperature is hotter than positive- heat will flow from the negative temperature to the positive one, and a higher temperature item will have heat flow from it to a lower temperature one.  It is important to note that this can only happen in systems where there is a finite number of states, that is systems which have a highest energy. For systems such as atoms translating in space there are infinite states and hence all the temperatures are positive. Why do you need a finite number of states? Can't we for example have a system with infinite number of low energy states and then a rather big gap to a higher energy state? Could you have an infinite number of states under a finite energy? It seems like you would then need to have either infinite particles or infinite volume. Good question. I would probably need an infinite volume, which makes it a little less practical.  &gt; [...] aka- Temperature is defined as the derivative of temperature with respect to entropy. [...]

I guess you mean the derivative of inner energy not temperature here.

 Thanks, fixed Hmm, I believe you have a few typos in the text.

&gt; but if you want to know the defined lowest temperature, it is -0K.

Defined highest/hottest?

&gt; While temperature is defined as T = dE/dS, aka- Temperature is defined as the derivative of temperature with respect to entropy.

Derivative of *energy* with respect to entropy (as the linked page states)? Ethan Siegel on his [Starts with a Bang blog](https://medium.com/starts-with-a-bang/ask-ethan-92-is-there-a-limit-to-temperature-18c39d0e337c) wrote about this very question a few weeks ago...

He basically came up with 10^28 - 10^29 K as the maximum temperature because at this point you would be re-initiating the exponential expansion of the Universe (cosmic inflation).

Ethan says it would be like "hit[ting] the 'reset' button on the Universe... resulting in the Big Bang starting all over again." Maybe.

Steven Weinberg addressed this question in the 1996 updated version of "The First Three Minutes" (Afterword P 190-191)

*...the continued success of the "asymptotically free" theory of strong interactions has by now made obsolete the speculations in Chapter VII about a maximum temperature of two million 
million degrees Kelvin (10^12 K). At higher temperatures, nuclear particles dissolve
into the quarks they are made of, and the matter of the universe behaves, quite
simply, as a gas of quarks, leptons, and photons. The description of matter only
becomes greatly difficult at the much higher temperature of 100 million 
million million million million degrees (10^32 K), where gravitation becomes as
strong as the other forces. Theorists have been speculating about the theory that
governs matter at these temperatures, but we are a long way from any direct
experimental test of these speculations.
The most exciting speculative theories studied since 1977 have been the
string theories. These replace the description of matter in terms of particles with
a description in terms of stringstiny one-dimensional discontinuities in
space-time. The strings can be in any one of an infinite number of modes of
vibration, each of which appears to us as a different species of elementary 
particle. Gravity appears not only naturally but inevitably in string theories; the
quantum of gravitational radiation is one of the modes of vibration of a closed
string.* **There may be a maximum temperature in modern string theories, but it
would be in the neighborhood of 10^32 K, not 10^12 K.**

*Unfortunately, there are thousands of versions of string theories, and we do
not know how to evaluate their consequences or why one string theory rather
than another should describe our universe. But there is one aspect of string 
theories that is of great potential importance to cosmology. Our familiar 
four-dimensional space-time continuum is not a truly fundamental ingredient of string
theories, but arises in the approximate descriptions of nature that only become
valid at temperatures below about 10^32 K. It may be that our real problem will
not be to understand the beginning of the universe, or even to decide whether
there really was a beginning, but rather to understand nature under conditions
in which time and space have no meaning.* I'll give this a try based on logic.

So temperature is nothing more than energy right? And we know that energy in the universe is finite. So therefore if there is a finite amount of energy then there must be a maximum temperature. Except I have no clue what that would be. I like the way you're thinking but unfortunately the physics of everything may break down at some point before achieving that upper bound. So theorhetically I see where you're getting at.. add everything up boom, max value. But while doing that you're going to cause black holes to form and all kinds of things right so would everything just big crunch (and possibly big bounce)? Yess there is! It's the [planck temperature](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Planck_temperature) (141 * 10^30 kelvin). It's the point at which the radiation emitted would have a wavelength smaller than the [planck length](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Planck_units) (161 * 10^-33 meters). So it can get more energy but it can't get any hotter.

[Cool video](https://youtu.be/4fuHzC9aTik?t=6m59s) FYI, it's spelled Planck, not plank. An easy to make mistake, as both words sound quite similar. Thank you fixed it. All matter gives off electromagnetic radiation. Humans give off infared wavelength radiation; when something is hot enough, it gives off visible light.

When something gets so hot that the wavelength of the radiation given off reaches the Planck Length, it technically can't get any hotter. This is called the Planck Temperature: 2.55 x 10^32 degrees Fahrenheit, or 1.417 x 10^32 degrees Celsius. Is there anything in this universe at this Planck Temperature? The black hole discussed by others in the tread is formed by a concentration of light so intense that it forms an event horizon and becomes self-trapped.  This is referred to as a Kugelblitz.  A kugelblitz is so hot it surpasses the Planck temperature. Both the Plank temperature and a Kugleblitz are listed at 1.41x10^41 degrees Kelvin.  I haven't checked which is really hotter. Yes.

If you pack enough energy into a single point it turns into particles (thus removing some of the energy) meaning there's is an equilibrium in which temperature no longer increases as new particles are created as fast as you can pack energy.

Similarly you can't separate quarks. You just create new ones when you stress the gluon field enough. The last sentence isn't true, if you're talking about quark confinement. You can form quark-gluon plasma in which quarks aren't confined to each other.  [deleted] This is not correct. The Planck temperature is just the energy scale (as defined by k_B*T) for which the gravitational effects become as large as the quantum effects. You can derive it simply by combining all the fundamental constants in such a way that you get a quantity with the dimension of temperature. The relevance for this temperature or energy scale is that we do not have a theory at the moment which can describe physical phenomena at this energy scale. This is in no way a physical maximal temperature! The wikipedia article is not very well written in this case (at least the introductory paragraph). If you read the significance paragraph, there is no mentioning of any highest absolute temperature. Thermodynamics doesn't place a strict upper limit on temperature, although there clearly an upper bound if the universe is finite.  Thermodynamically, temperature is dE/dS -- the fundamental relationship between energy and entropy.  As it turns out, thermodynamic systems, by law, have monotonically increasing temperature with respect to increased energy.  Well, by rearranging, TdS = dE.  If T is huge, then a finite dS can require a dE exceeding the total amount of energy in the universe. I have a question.  Does a total vacuum have a temprature?  Why, then, is life sustained at so close a temperature to absolute zero? The difference between absolute zero and temperatures on Earth's surface is minuscule compared with, say, the millions of degrees of the sun and entirely negligible when we're talking about the scales of any theoretical "absolute hot." Short answer: Because the style of biological machinery we're built out of uses water &amp; various carbon chains as it's basic building blocks, and those only work in a limited range. 

Warming up: By say 1000K, most of those building blocks break apart and/or turn to gas, and aren't very useful as a biological component -- they're just too energetic to remain in a consistent relationship to form larger complex structures (e.g. life). 

Cooling down: At below 273K, things go the other way and the machinery starts to have too *little* energy to move around and interact.  Unlike really high temperatures, life's still possible in near-subfreezing, your cells just have to be able to handle things like ice crystal formation causing damage to cell walls.  Artic microbes have really slow metabolisms, just waiting for the chemical reactions that drive their movement takes *tiiimmmeee* under colder temperatures.  Unlike warmer, colder life is feasible. 

---

So why not some different building blocks?  Ones that can handle higher temperatures?  It's theoretically possible.  But their are two big advantages that our general structure offers: 

Unlike the heavier elements on the periodic table, the small elements as H, C, N, and O can make multiple complex bonds and chains, and even form mostly stable arrangements of molecular groups. This a quality which is pretty much required to form complex life, no matter the molecular machinery: for life to exist, you have to be able to form, sustain, and modify stable structures of *something*.  

Second, the smaller elements are much more plentiful in the galaxy than the heavier ones, helping life that gets starting using them find lots more food.  Two things which aren't (comparatively) true for the rest of the periodic table. 

So there *might* be life that could exist at higher temperatures, but it would likely have to be put together out of a complex structure that would be stable inside (and made) of gas or plasma, which is (to my limited outside-of-my-field knowledge) not something we've ever observed even experimentally. I'm going to start talking about speed, but I'll get around to temperature, so stick around. C is defined as light speed, and is also the maximum speed something can move at. The reason it's the maximum speed in this universe is that the energy required to accelerate something depends on its current velocity, and is exponential. This means it takes more energy to get something moving 50 mph up to 51 mph than it does to get something moving 25 mph up to 26 mph. This also means that there is a velocity where it would take an infinite amount of energy to get anything at that velocity to move any faster. That velocity happens to be C, light speed.

Now, to temperature. What you're asking about is called specific heat, which is a linear equation (E = c*m*deltaT, where E is the energy required to raise the temperature, c is the specific heat constant of the material being heated, m is the mass, and deltaT is the change in the temperature). You'll also note that there's no place in the formula for starting temperature, meaning that it's independent of the starting temperature and the same amount of energy will net you the same increase in temperature regardless of initial conditions. This leads me to believe that, at least in classical physics, the view is that there is no maximum temperature a material can reach other than the maximum temperature the material can survive without being destroyed.

tl;dr-Newton says the answer is no. does that assume constant pressure? or any other assumptions for that matter? The [Planck temperature](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Planck_temperature) is the highest theoretically possible temperature, at 1.417x10^32 degrees Celsius. Matter at any specific temperature gives off radiation of a certain wavelength, with the wavelength decreasing as temperature increases. Matter at the Planck temperature gives off radiation with a wavelength of one Planck length, the shortest possible length. Interesting stuff, I don't understand it completely (was never very scientifically minded) but I just had a question of scale. Between  - 273.15C and the average human body temp of 36(?)C and the suns temperature, which is in the thousands? How much hotter are we talking? Is the suns heat still only in the bottom 1%? Less?  Planck temperature, denoted by TP, is the unit of temperature in the system of natural units known as Planck units.

It serves as the defining unit of the Planck temperature scale. In this scale the magnitude of the Planck temperature is equal to 1, while that of absolute zero is 0. Unlike Planck length and Planck time, which are defined as the smallest possible measurable units of length and time, Planck temperature is defined as the largest possible measurable unit of temperature. Other temperatures can be converted to Planck temperature units. For example, 0 C = 273.15 K = 1.9279  1030TP.

The Planck temperature in Fahrenheit is 2.55*1032 degrees Fahrenheit (255 nonillion degrees Fahrenheit)/1.417*1032 degrees Celsius (141.7 nonillion degrees Celsius).

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Planck_temperature Because the wavelength of light emitted by an object decreases as the temperature increases there is a theory that you couldn't go past a certain temperature because the wavelength would get smaller than Plank's distance, the smallest distance possible. I think it's 1.31x10^32 K, but don't quote me on that number, not sure if I remember exactly.  Not confirmed but I believe I read somewhere about the [Planck temperature](https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Planck_temperature)

I believe if you cross that limit, you run the risk of turning that area into a [kugelblitz](https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kugelblitz_(astrophysics)) , a black hole formed by energy. Of course, once a black hole is made it doesn't particularly matter if it was made from a star or not.  I thought just recently, probably a few months ago. They discovered something colder than absolute zero by actually heating it. It was something along the lines of heating it and as it's energy potential neared infinite (nature apparently doesn't like infinite things) it essentially reversed and dropped negative or something. Dropping it below absolute zero by .000001 or something rather minute, but interesting nonetheless. it might possibly be 141 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 Kelvin. At that Temperature Radiation emitted from whatever gets so hot would have a Wavelength of 1616x10e-35 meters, the Planck length.
As far as we know, things can't get any shorter.
If things where to get any hotter we'd have no Idea what would happen then.
 [deleted] If there is an absolute hot, it is, surprisingly enough, -273.15C. The reason for this is that temperature is defined based on how much energy it takes to make a marginal increase in entropy. If there is a maximum temperature, then there's some lower point with maximal entropy where temperature is infinite. When it gets hotter, adding energy starts reducing entropy, so the temperature is negative. As heat approaches the maximum, the temperature approaches zero from below. So this will probably get buried and not answered but...

How do we know things can't get colder than Absolute Zero? Is that when particles stop moving? And even then what if it came down to quarks or strings, do those particles still move at AZ? And if those particles DO still move at AZ, then is it really AZ? The problem is that absolute zero is a hard barrier, like light speed is, where something completely impossible happens under the circumstances we are considering it in. At light speed, this is that mass would become infinite. For absolute zero, all movement would stop, including the movement of things that can't effectively stop moving. Temperature is the random vibration of atoms. It's essentially the combined kinetic energy of all the atoms in an object. So, the maximum temperature should be equivalent to whatever the temperature would be with all the atoms vibrating at 99.99999999999999999% the speed of light (or however fast they could vibrate with all the energy of the universe pumped into that object).  Oh, I didn't answer your question directly so here goes. The generally accepted maximum possible temp is the Planck temperature. There is an inverse relationship between temperature and wavelength of electromagnetic energy released by a heated body. We see this by heating a piece of steel. At one temp it glows a dull red. As it heats it shifts to orange and eventually white. If we had a material which was capable if infinite heat resistance we'd see UV, X-ray, gamma rays and on and on to the point where the wavelength of energy would be less than the Planck length which is a no-go. That temperature is on the order of 10^32 Kelvin. That's really really hot. In terms of the Universe, I guess there would be one we can say is a definite upper limit but it would be nonsensical. The max temperature would be equal to or less than the total energy content of the Universe.  Ah, I've answered this question before in /r/geek. The original that I answered was "Why don't we use really long snorkels? "

The average forced vital capacity (assuming you are breathing as hard as you can with every breath) is roughly 4200 mL. For a 2 cm wide snorkel you'd need about 13.5 meters of snorkel tube to waste 50% of that as dead space. However! Dead space is decidedly *not* the issue if you are heading underwater. Besides, you can inhale through the tube and exhale into the water, as someone cleverly mentioned. 

The average healthy male can generate about -120 cmH2O (-80 to -100 for females) of what's called **negative inspiratory force**, or "ability to suck" if you like. However, you need a *difference* of about 40-60 cmH2O to breathe effectively which translating to about 50 cm of depth under water, is the number at which other people in this thread have suggested is when it gets really hard to pull air down. 

Basically, the pressure difference between you and the surface would be significant when you push past about a half meter. That's a lot of extra work for lungs that are used to about 0 atmospheres of difference, so you probably aren't strong enough to take the entire forced vital capacity because inhaling will be *so hard*.

If you were just hanging out at ground level and attempting to breathe only through a long snorkel (or just a giant straw at this point) then dead space in the snorkel will be what makes you pass out. 

Edit: Frequently asked questions (too many to reply to individually)

* What is dead space?

It's air that's being pushed back and forth without any significant oxygen/CO2 exchange happening with your lungs. Basically, air that's not doing any work.

* What about SCUBA gear?

As someone answered already, diving cylinders are hooked up to apparatuses that allow you to breathe in a gas mixture at the same pressure as the surrounding ambient pressure, so there's no large pressure gradient to overcome.

* What if there's a pump?

Well, then you'd no longer be breathing on your own to overcome the pressure gradient. That's what [surface-supplied diving](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Surface-supplied_diving) is, and they seem to historically have been used in the 1800's.

* What if I have a large lung capacity? Does a higher FVC affect how far I'd be able to go down?

No. The limiting factor is the amount of negative inspiratory force you're able to generate, which is dependent on how powerful your diaphragm is. Even if you had exceptionally powerful respiratory muscles, you'd get maybe a few more centimeters or tens of centimeters down the water.

* Air compresses and you need to breathe in more air to get the same oxygenation

Someone had this misconception but this is actually *not* a significant factor because in our scenario the air is still openly connected to the atmosphere. If you are breathing in air through a rigid pipe it will not compress significantly. If you walked from the top of a flight of stairs to the bottom you are not suddenly gasping for air (unless it's for other, more medical, reasons).

* Guys suck more than girls lmao

Well meme'd, my friend, but 50 others have made the same joke.

* I would like this in freedom units please

50 cm (depth at which it becomes hard to breathe ) is about a foot and a half to two feet. 13.5 meters is 44 feet. Can I train my lungs to be able to suck air at higher depths like any other muscle? If you could, "greater depths" here would mean a few tens of centimeters at most.  Not really enough to make an appreciable difference.  Pressure rises fast underwater. Let me please ask you this: Movies that depict people swimming through motes or ponds using really long reeds to sneak up on someone else is thereby inaccurate for the average person? Not quite - the dead space problem would be less of an issue as the reeds are invariably very thin. As for the pressure, the reed is long but the character's head could be just barely submerged.

The question of unrealism comes in if they're much more than snorkel-depth underwater. Actually, I think it is the depth of your chest that is important.  You can test this yourself.  When snorkeling if you are floating on the surface it is easy to breath, but if you hang your body down with just  your head near the surface it is noticeably harder. (your chest is only about 20 cm down, so its not hard, but it is noticeable).  That would make sense. You're fighting the pressure outside your chest when you breathe. As someone who routinely snorkels and experimented with this in the past:  Yes.  It is the depth of your chest that matters. You can do it, you just have to stay near the surface. It's not the reed length that matters so much, just depth under the surface. [deleted] Jacques Cousteau found himself unable to breathe through a long snorkel, and he was one of the greatest divers of his time (if not the best of his time). This leads me to believe that, while you could probably increase your lung power somewhat through training, you could never increase it enough to use a super long snorkel. It would simply be beyond what your lungs could do. To use an analogy, you could train your muscles to lift more weight, but you could never train enough to lift an adult bull.  If you were curious, an adult bull weighs about 1,700 pounds. The deadlift record is just over 1,000 pounds. 
I'm sure people have lifted more in other types of lifts, though.  Squat and deadlift have the highest weights lifted I know of. What lifts are you thinking people have done that were heavier? This is just a guess but leg press? While true that people can generally leg press more than they squat, it is bad to use as a reference for strength. That is because unlike the barbell squat and deadlift, the leg press is a machine that bears some of the load for you.  

If you load 400lbs on to a standard 45lb barbell and squat it, you have successfully moved a load of 445lbs. If you throw 445lbs on a leg press machine, you arent actually moving a load of 445lbs.  Also, machines like that isolate muscles, where barbells require all of the muscles for balancing. Exactly. Using the barbell activates stabilizer muscles that would otherwise not be used. An incline plane is exactly one of the Platonic machines, and it does indeed let you trade strength for time when pushing things against gravity. &gt;The deadlift record is just over 1,000 pounds. I'm sure people have lifted more in other types of lifts, though.

Nope, deadlift is the way to lift the heaviest possible amount of weight without using mechanical advantage (like a lever or pushing a weight on wheels up a gentle slope etc.) Nope, the world record for squat is actually more then the word record for deadlift (both raw and equipped).  A lot of powerlifters and strongmen have a better squat then deadlift when lifting extreme weights

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Deadlift#World_records

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Squat_(exercise)#World_records I did not realize the record was so high! Maybe I should revise my analogy to an elephant?  Jacques Cousteau's reasons for being a great diver have little to do with the physical ability you're discussing.
 
Free divers like Maiorca, Mayol, Herbert Nitsch, et. al. would be better examples to this context. Even there, they never have to breathe against that kind of pressure differential.  The most likely people to have any sort of practice at this would be frequent snorkelers. Free divers are by necessity frequent snorkelers, but also as apnea athletes have extremely strong diaphragms as well as large lungs and strong/flexible respiratory system tissues. These are athletes that can 'pack' or overfill their lungs to 150% capacity after already having trained to twice the capacity of a normal person their size. They also practice 'negatives', when they dive past 20+ meters after exhaling beyond what a normal human can. This sort of thing would tear the tissues of a normal athlete. They also do workouts like crossfit while wearing a breathing restriction mask. 

Tl;Dr free divers would probably be the best candidate for this despite not actually breathing during a dive.  Source on 150% of 200% capacity? Free divers aren't "breathing", they are getting as much oxygen into their blood stream at the surface, and holding their breath for a really long time. But free Divers don't have to battle the pressure differential.  They take their breaths at around 1 atmosphere, and then just hold it. why don't you do what fry and friends did, they took shopping bag of air with them a straw, and just sucked out air when they needed it. There's heaps of air in a shopping bag You don't increase the power of your lung, but those of all the muscle that expand your cage.  After being a swimmer since I was very young, I pride myself on being able to hold my breath for long periods.  However as a kid I tried to breathe under water using a pool hose (1 1/2" diameter) and while sitting on the bottom of a 4' pool found out that my lungs could not do it.  It was amazing to realize how much pressure is involved. [deleted] Masks like these are regularly savaged by the fitness scientists at /r/fitness. The message is that they don't work. But they sell covers that make you look like Bane so they make you look cool therefore they must work! I always suspected that, but I never cared enough to look into it, got a link on any relevant info? A ton of hits here: http://www.reddit.com/r/Fitness/search?q=altitude+mask&amp;restrict_sr=on

e.g. http://www.reddit.com/r/Fitness/comments/29rhqc/altitude_training_masks/cioag58

Also: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Altitude_training#Increased_red_blood_cell_volume

From what I get from this (although ask the science guys at Fitness) the message seems to be that at high altitudes there is less pressure from the oxygen inside your lungs towards the insides of your lungs.  You fill your lungs up all the way just the same, but the pressure _from_ the oxygen to enter the bloodstream is lower. And pressure is a main driver of oxygen getting into the blood - the red blood cells are sitting there, and air pressure helps push oxygen into them. 

The body compensates by making more red blood cells to capture more oxygen. 

These masks basically just make it harder to fill your lungs with air, so your diaphragm has to work harder, but the actual air pressure inside is still the same. 

So whether it's easy for you (maskless) to fill your lungs with a 21% oxygen mix, or whether it's hard for you and you have to use your diaphragm a lot (with mask), once your lungs are filled with that 21% oxygen, the pressure for it getting into red blood cells is the same, hence the biological reaction of higher blood cell count never happens. 

Not sure if that's 100% accurate. 

edit: I suppose also, if you have a box connected to the outside air with a straw, or with a very big hole, the air pressure inside the box will be the same regardless. For the air pressure inside the box to get lower, you either need some kind of high powered vent and pump system which we don't have in our bodies, or for the air pressure outside to also be lower. 

 I own one of those said masks. They do make breathing very difficult. I can do a 1.5 mile run in about 8:30. With the mask, I will do a mile in about the same amount of time on the hardest setting. With that said, training with that mask is not for the feint of heart. It does work pretty well however. I actually heard that it doesn't work in the sense that it does not replace high-altitude training.

For it to work like high-altitude training, you have to be wearing the mask 24/7. And you're right. It does not lower O2 Partial Pressure. All it does is make  your lungs to harder to breathe. The lungs do become stronger and more efficient in how they work, but not changing the chemistry itself.  But your lungs are never the limiting factor. If you get out of breath during a run that's because you're body is scaling up your VO2 rate too fast and the only way to up that is either living at high altitudes or strength training. Having stronger diaphragm doesn't help at all!
 Nobody here has mentioned any studies on this. I might link later but it seems that the diaphragm has an unmodifiable mitochondrial density. No amount of training will effect the diaphragm   The lungs don't do anything, the diaphragm is responsible for all breathing. [deleted] Fun Fact: In one of Jacques Cousteau's books (I believe it was The Silent World) he wrote that as a young boy he had thought it would be possible to breathe through super long snorkels, but later in life found he couldn't even breath through one in a shallow swimming pool. Of course, he would go on to invent the self-contained underwater breathing apparatus: Scuba.  So as someone who has never scuba'd before, how does the self-contained system aid in this? does the additional pressure from the tanks sort of "force fill" your lungs, to an extent? is there a pressure adjustment to make sure it pushes a certain amount based on the ambient water pressure?

**Edit: Holy cow! Thanks for all the super informative replies! I think scuba just made the bucket list!** I have never scuba dived, but I think this was the breakthrough that Jacques Cousteau had when inventing "Scuba" technology. The air tank is at like 3000 psi and the diaphram of the regulator you breath through is exposed to the ambient pressure of the water. This allows it to provide air at the correct pressure for the depth you are at.

This is also why it is important to never hold your breath when scuba diving, a lungful of 130 psi air is much larger at even a few psi less. This is correct, but the bit about not holding your breath needs further comment. It's not because a lungful of air is 'larger' at high pressures, it's because if you ascend slightly - lowering the ambient pressure - while your breath is held, the air expands, and can damage your lungs. &gt; It's not because a lungful of air is 'larger' at high pressures

No it is indeed smaller at higher pressures. I just worded it a bit backwards, we said the same thing. and any part of your body with air space - this is why you need to constantly clear/equalize your ears and why you should never dive with a cold (sinus infection/swelling etc). The SCUBA regulator converts the high-pressure air in the cylinder to an intermediate pressure 7-10 bar above the surrounding water pressure. When the diver breathes in a valve opens up allowing the high pressure air to continue to convert to intermediate pressure making it easy for the intermediate air to be inhaled by the diver.

[Here's a video that explains it more clearly](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VJeSifGgeiA) The first stage (on top of the tank) leaves the air 10 bar above water pressure (in the hose). It's the second stage (mouthpiece) that's usually called the regulator. That's a matter of SCUBA parlance. They're both actually regulators, and function nearly identically. The difference is simply shape and pressures involved. The air in the tanks are pressurized to about 3000 psi and the regulator steps it down so you can comfortably breath. 

EDIT: much better explanation below from pioletdiver  The Encyclopedia Brown series actually goes into this by saying a man tried to hide from someone by using a hollow bamboo reed to try to breathe underwater.  Turns out the guy died because after a certain length you would be unable to move the air due to the pressure.  I know it's just a kid's series, but it was usually spot on with physics analysis that kids could understand.

http://tvtropes.org/pmwiki/pmwiki.php/Main/ReedSnorkel [deleted] I can't find the story you're referring to (though it sounds familiar), but the trope you linked to seems like it's saying the exact opposite?  

In that case it specifically talks about pressure not being the problem, but about rebreathing the same air until suffocating.  Though it's also mixing in the need for the snorkel to get wider (for pressure), so I'm not sure what to think =) This wasn't that series, but I heard it from two minute mysteries, by the same author. If someone can tell me how to post a picture on BaconReader I can send a picture of the page. 

Edit: figured it out, here's the link. 
http://imgur.com/a/wdiua What is dead space? Its the amount of air that moves back and forth through the tube, but never leaves it. You end up re-breathing a certain amount of air with a snorkel. I imagine you could breathe out through your nose and only have air going through the snorkel one way though. Not that it'd help all the other factors. Alternatively, it could mean the Sci-Fi Horror game released in 2008, but I'm going to guess in this context we're talking about the air that moves back and forth within the tube of a snorkel. Would you be able to train your negative inspiratory force if you spent months training at 30cm depth then? (Then moving up to greater and greater depths)

If possible, would you notice any difference in your every day life, i.e. above the surface? This I'm interested in. It'd be neat to exercise something that ended up helping you out a good amount in ways you haven't thought of  This seems like a really well informed answer.  Thanks!  What's your background? [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] What matters is the pressure _difference_ between the air in your lungs (and at your mouth) and the water around you.  If you use a pump to pressurize the air, then you can go deeper.  That's how those old-style diving helmets with the hose going up to the surface worked. Could you wear some sort of drysuit that takes the pressure of the water off your lungs?  Kind of like the rigid body section of space suits? The crazy super deep diving suits are pretty much what you just described. Then you are entering the [surface-supplied diving](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Surface-supplied_diving) area.  

Probably the most dangerous of those is compressor diving, basically just a hose attached to a compressor that you stick in your mouth.  
Here's a good documentation video about that: [Compressor Diving &amp; Pa-aling Fishing](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-G8_RPc_lks).  

Basically the same thing but with a regulator at the end is called hookah diving.  
Which is probably not much safer. This is how scuba diving works. The air is compressed, and the natural properties of gas under pressure work like a pump to inflate your lungs for you. There's a great full explanation of how the regulation works here: http://www.reddit.com/r/askscience/comments/3ap7dk/how_far_underwater_could_you_breath_using_a_hose/cseqrgu Is there a linear relationship between depth and diameter of tube? Or is it exponential in that the deeper you go the exponentially greater the diameter of the tube has to be? There is no relation, so long as the tube itself doesn't collapse.  The pressure is on the water around your lungs, the air pressure in the tube is atmospheric pressure. That diving "opportunity" I was offered in Mahahual didn't strike me as a good idea at the time. Now I know why. Thank you! How can SCUBA divers go lower than that? [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] From experience, not very far. 
It all depends on the diaphragm strength. But I would say about 50 cm. It is already very difficult to breathe through a 35 cm tube.

1 m seems definitely impossible (it would feels like you try to breathe with a horse sitting on your chest).


Even if you could compensate the overpressure, the other factor would be that the air in the pipe will contain the air you just expelled (high in CO2 and poor in O2). It would be like you are breathing in a sealed plastic bag.

A 40 cm pipe with a radius of 2 cm contains 1L of air. This "dead" air will be the first litre of air you breathe each time.

Note that at rest we normally breathe about 0.5L. What if you were only breathing *in* through the hose and out through your nose? In that case the first limitation will stand.

In order to breathe you have to compensate the pressure of the fluid around your chest. When your chest is below 1 m of water, you need to compensate 0.1 atmosphere (water pressure is about 1 atm per 10 m). Diaphragm is just not strong enough. How do divers breathe then?

Edit: thanks for the explanations : ) Rescue diver here. Modern scuba gear works by taking a tank of air (80-120 cu ft) that is under very high pressure ~3k psi. Then the regulator has two stages. The first stage (metal device clamped to the tank) bumps the pressure down to about 100-200psi in the hose going to the regulator in your mouth. The second stage which you have in your mouth has a diaphragm that has the high pressure air on one side and the ambient water pressure on the other. As you start to breathe you cause a change in pressure against the diaphragm the regulator's second stage will release air at the ambient water pressure so it ALWAYS feels like you are breathing at the surface. 100ft, 3 ft, whatever the depth. This is why the deeper you go the faster you use up the air in the tank. Each breath has more air molecules since it is at higher pressure.  +1 for explaining how it actually works rather than just saying "divers have regulators".

Edit: Question: Would it therefore be possible to take very small breaths deep underwater and still get the same amount of oxygen per breath in order prolong the air in the tank? Yes, this is called "skip breathing".  It is generally viewed as dangerous in SCUBA diving.  When I was certified it wasn't taught at all, and the dive masters would strongly advise against it when asked about it.  It could lead to breath holding and this is very dangerous if you were to decrease depth, pressure lowers on the outside so the air in your lungs expands and could cause an embolism if you are holding breath.  The other method is to take smaller breaths but again you have to regulate it and it could be dangerous.  Keeping your airway open and flowing is the golden rule of SCUBA, too many large pressure changes are possible. can you take smaller breaths? since you'd still be getting plenty of oxygen molecules?  Yes, but it takes focus and it's generally more efficient to just focus on what you're doing underwater and get it done before you run out of air. I don't know any divers who are willing to get "fancy" like that unless there's an emergency. To add, holding your breath is a bad idea as well.

If you ever pushed a ball underwater in the pool, you would notice it get softer. That is due to the pressure the water pushes on the ball. If you inflate the ball underwater, it would bust when it gets to the surface. Now replace the ball with you lungs

Buoyancy Control Vests divers use have an escape valve that lets air out as you ascend to prevent it from bursting. [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] For safety reasons, there are time limits on how long you should stay underwater.  The deeper you are, the less time you have to safely be at that depth.  So even though you are using up your air supply more quickly, you have less time to be there anyway.  It evens out a little. No, not really. 

There are basically two types of dives. Dives which require decompression stops and dives that do not. Recreational divers make the latter dives, and for them the rule of 120 applies (depth in feet + time in minutes can't exceed 120 -- dive tables are more complicated than that, but for back of the napkin dive planning, the rule works). But for divers trained to make deco dives, there is no upper bound for time under water. 

Once you have to make planned decompression stops the training level and danger increases, because any problem must be addressed at depth, you no longer have the option to return to the surface. But that is true of any decompression dive no matter the duration. 

The limits are about cost and logistics. 

Trimix is expensive. 125 steel tanks are expensive. Staging is logistically complicated. 

But if you had unlimited budget, you could stay down forever. There's no physiological limit to how long you can stay at depth that we know of. And, once you're fully saturated you won't increase your deco time.  Fully saturated is fully saturated, and off-gassing will take the same regardless of if your total bottom time once you're fully saturated. 

However, for practical purposes, unless you have a diving bell, few technical dives extend beyond about 4 hours of total time below surface. 
 That is why divers switch to exotic mixed like nitro or trim is to avoid toxicity issues. In my case, I dive to see fish, so going below 35 - 40 meters is a little pointless.  So I don't use any mixtures beyond the standard tank.  It takes more training and is more expensive to get beyond the regular tanks. Deep dives are fun for wrecks and stuff, but the really fun stuff are at 10-60m &gt; That is why divers switch to exotic mixed like nitro or trim is to avoid toxicity issues.

Nitrox is plain air with additional oxygen, and actually *increases* the probability of O2 Toxicity, although it does slightly reduce nitrogen absorption, which increases allowable bottom time and *may* reduce narcosis a little depending on the mix. So you can stay at depth longer, but need to remain within limits to avoid seizures, which are generally fatal underwater.

Hypoxic trimix with a lower level of O2 increases possible bottom times, increases maximum depth before O2 tox is a problem, as well as reduces/eliminates narcosis, at the expense of making an emergency ascent impossible due to He's fast absorption.

So with trimix you'll have a clear head and can do deeper  dives, but if you bolt for the surface and skip decompression stops, you'll die.
 My inclination is also that if you take smaller (lower volume) breaths, you will have a smaller uptake of oxygen into your body because your lungs are not filled with as much air.  Fewer aveoli are in contact with air.  Even though the air has a higher partial pressure of oxygen, an equal uptake of oxygen would take longer than if those same number of oxygen molecules were spread evenly throughout the lungs and contacting all of the alveoli.

Is there biological science to this?  Or should I go sit in a corner? The point you miss is that there are two things that matter: partial pressure of the gas and volume of the gas. 

Partial pressure applies to all of your tissues, not just on the gas coming in your lungs.  

You need a partial pressure of O2 of about 0.16 to stay conscious. Anything below that starts to get dangerous for you.  And that is presuming normal breathing patterns. 

If you try to breath shallowly the PPO2 you need to stay conscious increases because the volume of O2 in your body is too low.

The count of molecules has no real point in the discussion. You don't need a specific number of molecules to stay alive, you need a particular volume at a particular partial pressure. 

If you're breathing higher concentrations of O2, you can get by with a lower volume, but then you have an issue that at depth, O2 at too HIGH a partial pressure and can actually cause fatal complications at depth. 

Tech divers typically lower the amount of oxygen in their mixes for bottom gas (the stuff they breath way down deep) to keep the partial pressure where it needs to be. One real serious problem for tech divers is remembering to switch from the bottom gas to an ascent gas before coming up from depth -- failure to do so can cause blackout when the gas you are breathing doesn't have enough PPO2 at the shallower pressure. 

If you look at tech diver gear, you will frequently see a wide strip of tape on the tanks with a mix and minimum and maximum depth written in large size print (duct tape and sharpies!). When we go to switch gas we'll double and triple check that label before we switch over. Getting on the wrong hose at the wrong time can be fatal. [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] Is the lung affected by the higher pressure? Will it work less efficiently with high pressure air, because it can not handle the excess amount of oxygen, or might the oxygen intake become too high if you just take regular breaths that contain more oxygen than on the surface? Yes!  (Dive master here)

In addition to the commonly known problems with nitrogen narcosis, your lungs and central nervous system will also have a response to high concentrations of oxygen in the air you breathe.  This is usually referred to as CNS or pulmonary oxygen toxicity.

In fact, some of the more advanced dive computers used for SCUBA also track how much oxygen divers are exposed to because divers working more deeply and/or for longer times may exceed the permitted exposure in a given time frame, just as they may exceed the recommended nitrogen load for a given dive and require decompression to safely ascend.  Unfortunately there's no "decompression" for oxygen toxicity, only time (simplifying here).

Oxygen exposure must be limited by time and concentration.  For any given tank of breathing gas (or real time mix) oxygen exposure must be tracked cumulatively using the concentration of oxygen present, which varies with tank mix and depth (the more oxygen is in the tank the faster the clock runs, the deeper you go the faster it runs also, because it's the number of oxygen molecules in your lungs that matter). 

As well, there is a depth beyond which the concentration of oxygen in ordinary air exceeds the limit humans can safely breathe, and beyond that point divers risk convulsions due to excess oxygen.  that point is equal to approximately 1.6-1.8 times the concentration of pure oxygen at sea level (remember, it's the number of oxygen molecules that matter).  

So, any tank of breathing gas has a limit to the depth at which it can be used, because that is the depth at which the oxygen concentrations become too high to be safe.  Pure oxygen cannot be safely breathed underwater below about 13 feet of depth.

You may notice that this implies you could breathe off of a tank of "air" with less than normal oxygen in it at great depth, and this is true.  In fact, it's possible for a trained diver to breathe at great depth a mix of gases which would not enable him to remain conscious or survive if that same tank were used at normal surface pressure.

 At depths exceeding 100-130' (it all depends on the physiology of each person) the high concentration can cause an effect called Nitrogen Narcosis. This is the famed "rapture of the deep" and it feels like a drunken stupor. It is similar to when pilots or climbers experience hypoxia strangely enough. Your motor skills fail and you become sort of a euphoric dummy. On the flip side Oxygen at high enough of a pressure can become toxic. The same gas that gives you life can take it away. That is why pure oxygen cannot be used below about 2-3 atms. Closed circuit diving rigs like the military uses where no bubbles are released scrub the CO2 out of your exhaled air and add pure O2. This is awesome for Navy SEALs and the like but they cannot really go beyond about 40-50 feet before they are pushing the limits of toxicity. &gt; Closed circuit diving rigs like the military uses where no bubbles are released scrub the CO2 out of your exhaled air and add pure O2. This is awesome for Navy SEALs and the like but they cannot really go beyond about 40-50 feet before they are pushing the limits of toxicity.

Actually, that's only for first generation or non trimix capable rebreathers.

The more modern commercial, military and recreational units can hold PPo2 to a specific number dynamically as well as replace nitrogen as a diluent with helium, meaning extremely deep dives with rebreathers are possible (and in fact, rebreathers are preferred for this since otherwise very deep dives would require a huge number of air tanks).

Also, rebreather diving this way is safer than open circuit (tank) diving, because it offers complete control of nitrogen and O2 levels, avoiding narcosis and toxicity (assuming the rebreather is functioning correctly).
 So you are saying that the regulator is allowing just enough pressure to equalize the pressure around the diver + 1 atm for him to breath normally? Wouldn't that mean that if the pressure around the diver is 50 psi, the regulator is essentially allowing 64 psi (50 psi + 1 atm) to flow to the diver relative to sea level? Not generally, no.  The second stage regulator is somewhat tunable, but generally it takes about 130 psi input pressure (which itself can vary some with depth depending on the first stage) and matches output pressure to ambient pressure.

If properly tuned, the second stage will permit breathing effort to be no more than normal, IE it's just as easy to breathe underwater as it is on the surface because the pressures are matched.

In some circumstances the pressure is slightly above balanced and so finely tuned that a whack on the second stage or simply the pressure of putting it into the water back end first will cause the demand valve to open, releasing a stream of bubbles when it is not in the diver's mouth (and wasting air).  This is caused a "free flow" and it can also happen if the demand valve freezes open or fails.

So no, it's not 1 atm above ambient pressure, otherwise all the air would be out of the tank pretty quickly.
 Aha so that's why bottom time decreases with increased depth! Ignoring nitrogen absorption rates couldn't you have the same dive time that you would at 15 ft at 200 ? [deleted] Divers have a pressurized air source.  At depth divers are actually breathing much more air then they do at the surface.  This is why a diver will exhaust his or her entire tank at depth (say 100 ft) in a matter of minutes, while at 10 ft the same diver could breathe air from the same tank for a couple hours.  Note that there are also other safety reasons that divers cannot dive deep for long, but this is one of them. Divers breathe from a set of two regulators with modern scuba equipment. The first stage (attached to the cylinder) takes the high pressure air (3000psi) in the cylinder to an intermediate pressure (IP). This is usually around 125-150 PSI (or let's say 10 bar) above ambient pressure. 
 
This IP is what is present in the low pressure hose going to the second stage regulator. This is the regulator that is breathed from. The second stage provides air on demand at ambient pressure. 

Here's some further diagrams from the MIT scuba club. Wikipedia also has some decent text on the subtleties between the different first stage types. 

http://web.mit.edu/scuba-club/www/Everything_about_regulators.pdf We breathe using a regulator that provide air to local pressure. So at 30 m the air we breathe is delivered at 4 atm. That way you breathe with the same effort as if you were at the surface.

There is some drawback : As the air is delivered at a higher pressure, you actually use more air per cycle. At 30 m you use 4 times the air you would use at the surface from the tank. Thus the deeper you are, the less autonomy you have. Also the air feels "thicker".

Also the partial pressure of the gases in the air you breathe is increased, at about 65 m the partial pressure of Oxygen becomes toxic for your tissues. That is when you have to use different gases than normal air (Trimix) if you want to go deeper.

There is also the problem with Nitrogen that is accumulating in your cells. [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] What about some kind of crank, you pull on which draws air down into some container from which you sorta sip the air.  Could you crank, expelling old air, trapping new air and sealing the hose.  That would work. In that case, the energy needed to move the air down into the water comes from your arm, not your diaphragm. I imagine your arm is a lot stronger. That's basically how [these](http://gpsinformation.info/Jack/Columbia/7-Thursday/Columbia259a.jpg) worked. 

Still used today sometimes.   Yeah, as for your comment on CO2, the reason i ask is that we used to do "locked room mysteries" when i was in primary school (like forever ago),  one of the questions was how did the person die if they had a 2m long pipe underwater, and the answer was "because the hose was full of exhaled breath".  But i recently recalled that memory and thought A) you could just breathe through your mouth, exhale through your nose, and B) the pressure would make things almost impossible. I tried this a few months ago. The size and diameter of the pipe is irrelevant, even at a half metre its near impossible to breath in. Your lungs just don't have the strength to inflate. It's like trying to blow up a balloon by stretching it from the outside and letting the air rush in.   This is absolutely crazy! I don't doubt this but it's just blowing my mind to think that only a few feet of water would make it near impossible to expand your rib cage. We (humans) just got even more fragile than I knew we were. If you think about it, the mechanism by which we expand our rib cage is pretty inefficient. The muscles pull at the ribs at a pretty flat angle, so only a minuscule amount of force gets applied into the outward direction.  Intercostal muscles pull ribs outward, but the real work of breathing is done by your diaphragm, which pulls lungs *down* towards the abdomen.  It is not that mind-blowing when you actually do the math. Water is heavy ! 
At 1 m (3.3 feet) below the water line you get 1 kg (2.2 pounds) of additional weight on each cm (0.155 inch) of your chest. (or 14.2 pound per square inch). Imagine a 1m tall bucket full of water sitting on your chest. It would be pretty hard, if not impossible, to breathe. And that's just on your chest! When you're underwater you have that same force on every square cm of your body.  [deleted] It's good you didn't get more creative.

True story (recorded in textbooks if you want to look):  A set of kids playing in an approximately 8 foot deep backyard pool decided to "dive" using a heavily weighted 5 gallon bucket.  They weighted it until it would sink to the bottom of the pool while full of air.  They then took turns diving to the bottom, sticking their heads in the bucket and breathing, thus staying underwater for several minutes at a time.

The problem with this is that sinking the bucket to the bottom of the pool caused the air in the bucket to compress (physics, the ideal gas law) according to the depth of the pool.  This decreased the volume of air and also increased oxygen concentration, so it wasn't a problem to get enough oxygen for the kids.

Everything was fine until one of them held his breath while coming up.  Divers know never to do this, because SCUBA tanks and regulators produce air at ambient underwater pressure, meaning at 33 feet underwater you will have twice the number of molecules of air in your lungs as you would at the surface.

If a diver holds their breath while ascending even a short distance, the reduced water pressure causes the air to expand with no where to go, which results in a pulmonary air embolism (popped lung) which can be fatal.

This is what happened to one of the kids, unfortunately.  He held his breath coming up after filling his lungs from the bucket.  The bucket air was naturally compressed by being at the bottom of the pool and as he ascended it expanded in his lungs and caused a fatal embolism.

Incidentally, divers are told to always breathe normally underwater, and never hold their breath.  This is because without a great deal of experience or some kind of solid object or rope anchored to the bottom (not to a boat) to hold on to a diver can quickly change depth without noticing enough to cause a problem.

 [deleted] Yes, [here's some data](http://www.biomedical-engineering-online.com/content/5/1/29), if I'm converting the units correctly then yes, maximum inhalation pressure for a healthy male is about 0.1 atm (or 1 metre of water), and that only at full exhalation (it falls down more than by half as you inhale).

Solving the dead air problem on the other hand would be easy: just use twin tubes with one-way valves (or use your tongue). Would it be possible to increase your diaphragm strength (and therefore the depth at which you could breathe) through training? If your diaphragm was strong enough you'd probably start breaking ribs instead So the scene in kingsman where they are breathing through the hose underwater is not possible? There are a few problems with that scene - they're also not floating all over the place.  Humans are naturally buoyant, but they're just chilling out on the floor. But if you're breathing out through your nose, surely reinflating your lungs from the hose should be a matter of letting the air already in the tube - and already at 2ATMs - settle back into your lungs? What part am I missing here? The air in the tube is not pressurized by the water - it's still at 1 atm thanks to the rigid walls of your "snorkel". Your body is soft and surrounded by water, so it is pressurized. How did the air get to be 2atms? The air in the tube is isolated from the ambient water pressure. It is a closed system between your lungs and the air at the surface of the water. When you exhale out through your nose suddenly your lungs have very little if any air in them. At best the "rushing in" effect will be 14-ish psi. However your chest is feeling the ambient water pressure at whatever depth it is at which is higher than 14 psi. It would be like having a tube to breathe through but instead of water around your body you just had a ton of weights pressing on your chest. Breathing in would require your diaphragm to overcome the difference in psi. It just can't do it.  [Compressor diving] (https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-G8_RPc_lks&amp;app=desktop) in the Philippines is pretty crazy. These guys go 25-30 meters down  to place and gather fishing nets from the reefs, using nothing but a small compressor fed tube for oxygen. Then there is the risk of decompression sickness.....  The Philippines in general is just insane.

Balisong knives, Karambits, helmet diving, compressor diving.  It's crazy down there. Scariest part is how they drive. They have lines painted on the roads suggesting lanes, but they just go where there's space. Talked to an Aussie guy working there who had defensive driving instruction. The instructor pointed out that the conditions, despite the innumerable minor accidents encouraged situational awareness. It is still insane though. Do not drive on the shoulder. Posted Sign.

Wow thanks for the suggestion!  We did that as kids, without a compressor. Imagine an upside down bucket (diving bell) weighted down with a big bunch of rocks hanging on strings around it. A bunch of kids on the pier with foot-operated car tire inflators pump like crazy. These go into a home-made "manifold" and feed the hose that goes into the bell (actually under the bucket). The air simply mixes in the bell and excess bubbles out from under the rim of the bucket. We've spent hours doing this, lots of fun for the guy 2-3 m underwater, but the guys on the pier get tired rather quick. The part of the lake next to the pier was shallow like that and we'd wade around it, using a long garden hose to feed the air. It smelled rubbery and wet, but work it did. I'll never forget the experience, it was just cool. [deleted] [deleted] To violate the spirit of the question, yet achieve better *depth*, you would need to build a pipe large enough to enclose your diver. If we cap the top or the bottom, we should be able to lower our diver considerably, while they retain a column of air to breathe in. Mind, we do still have the issue of ventilation: the carbon dioxide our diver exhales will build up around the bottom of the tube.

Providing that we lower and raise our diver slowly enough, to account for pressure differences, and as long as the pipe itself remains structurally sound... I'd imagine 20 to 50 meters wouldn't be terribly unreasonable. The pipe would be acting like a very crude diving bell. Capping the bottom would be the best bet because capping the top would still cause the problem of increased air pressure in the tube. True, but is it still a pipe at that point? Also, the further down you go below sea level, you still have to account for greater air pressure. Not as much as if you were in a diving suit, but the column of air above you still has greater pressure than a person standing at sea level. Not enough to matter. Divers experience an atmosphere every 10 meters or so. We're just fine.

You'd need 20 miles of air before you reach the equivalent of those 10 meters. The truth is there would be many more complications in this operation from the buoyancy force forcing the tube back than from air actually raising it's pressure on the diver. I'm not so sure. If you lowered a 500 foot pipe with 4 feet of water in it, a person would be able to breathe through a snorkel as if they were only 4 feet underwater the whole way down. In that case, the walls and bottom of the tube would be resisting the water pressure, and the air pressure would be the same as that at the bottom of a 500-foot-below-sea-level valley; his ears might pop, but that's about it. That's ok. It's the pressure *difference* that makes the snorkel thing a problem. If the air pressure rises along with the water pressure you'd be in good shape. Look up the engineering device of a "caisson".  This was essentially what was done to enable the building of things like bridge pilings underwater.  The caisson was kind of like a huge diving bell.

Note that there were still some problems.  If the men who had worked all day at the bottom of the pipe climbed the steps to the top too fast, their bodies would start to form bubbles in their blood because of the dissolved nitrogen (which would remain in solution at the bottom, but come out at lower pressure as they ascended).

The pain they felt in their joints and elsewhere would be intense but would eventually fade as time passed, although future pain would be more likely to occur.  Experts eventually discovered that ascending very slowly would avoid these pains, which were termed "caisson disease".  We now know that these men were experiencing decompression illness exactly like deep commercial or SCUBA divers do now, and that the slower rate of ascent (what divers call decompression stops) enabled the nitrogen in the workers' blood to come out through normal breathing, thus when they finished their ascent they were close enough to normal concentrations to not feel intense pain from bubbles.
 Related question: how much air does a person need to breathe, in cubic meters per hour? [deleted] Thank you! I knew something like this existed, but for the life of me, I couldn't remember what it was called. No problem. 

From a quick scan, I'm not sure what the appropriate max depth is.

The water under the Brooklyn Bridge is about 75 ft (high water mark) but caissons have to be pressurized, so it "feels" deeper than that due to pressure. Your lungs can handle a *lot* of pressure, as long as the pressure difference is relatively small. Technical divers going extremely deep can encounter something called [high pressure nervous system](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/High-pressure_nervous_syndrome) that causes a host of negative symptoms. At this point the divers are breathing air at over 30 atm, and the lungs themselves are fine.

I suppose what you're really asking is how much pressure *differential* your lungs can handle. This depends on the strength of your diaphragm muscle, which expands the volume of your lungs, lowering their pressure and allowing air to rush in. As you go deeper underwater, it gets more and more difficult to expand your lungs. The limit will depend on the person. I'd imagine that respiratory training could increase the depth at which you could breathe.

Scuba equipment solves this problem by having even higher pressures in the tank, which forces the air into your lungs. This means that the diaphragm doesn't have to work as hard. Even with the tank pressure assisting you, anyone who's scuba dived will tell you that breathing becomes more laborious the deeper you go, because you're breathing high pressure (and thus higher density) air. It's important to note that all the compressed air in your lungs will quickly expand if you ascend. If a scuba diver held their breath, they could destroy their lungs. That's why they are taught to beath constantly, and to always exhale a stream of bubbles as they ascend. Ever dived down five meters or so with a balloon? Notice how it shrinks to 2/3 its original size or less?

You could open the balloon and breathe the air in fine. I've done just that. But you couldn't possibly suck the same volume of air from a balloon on the surface attached to the end of a hose.

I've never been able to breathe through an extended snorkel from much beyond 30-40cm deep (a bit over one foot for Americans). Seriously hard work, to the point where simply breathing in is exhausting. no... is that a common thing to do? Okay, scuba instructor here. 

The answer to your question varies depending on what mechanism is causing transportation of the air in the tube. 

If you are using a machine at the surface to push the air in, this is known as Surface-Supplied air source and is used in the commercial diving industry for many purposes. In this case you can exceed recreational diving depths as you can control the gas mixture at the surface and continue to provide the necessary pressure to equalise the depth the diver is at. 

If you as the diver/'submariner' are providing the mechanism of air delivery (i.e. You are using your lungs to move the air in and out) you may find it impossible even if you are at the surface with only your face submerged. The length and diameter of the breathing tube affects the dead air space you need to breathe past as well as the turbulence caused from the inhalation/exhalation process. This is a common trouble with snorkelers who have a snorkel which is too long/narrow/wide and they get winded quickly.

In the second case, you are correct that it is a matter of exchanging the CO2; if you do not exhale and inhale enough your dead air space (which also includes your bronchi and trachea) will accumulate CO2 until the obvious outcomes happen. 

I hope this answers your question. As you didn't specify if the person in question was propelling the air themselves or having it supplied (though your addenda indicate the former) I figure you could handle both possibilities.  Related is the way elephant lungs work while walking along a river bed with only their trunks above the water. 

Their lung design can inhale with much more force than humans' design. 

http://news.nationalgeographic.com/news/2002/11/1105_021106_elephantsnorkel.html I have done this before in a small hot tub. I am a fairly experienced swimmer; can hold my breath for over three minutes so I think I have fairly strong lungs. It gets really difficult at around 2-3 feet. I am fairly certain you couldnt do it at double the depth. It feels like someone is ripping air outa your lungs when you exhale (I would say its harder to exhale @ 2 feet deep then to inhale regularly) and inhaling is 10x's as hard. the "expert" thought even two feet would be unobtainable so the fact that you could start there... do you think you (or me or just anybody) could really train upto depth? [deleted] Because you're carrying a pressurized system with you, and you keep it within safe tolerances. Even so, human divers can only go down so far. Modern scuba typically uses 2 regulators, each which step down the pressure of the air in the tank. The first stage regulator steps the pressure down to about 150 psi above the ambient pressure (the pressure at depth, e.g. 2 atm at 10 m), and the second stage regulator steps the pressure down to the ambient pressure. The pressure of the air being breathed by the diver is therefore equivalent to the atmospheric pressure at depth, which allows the lungs to inflate.  I tried this as a kid with a long pool pump tube. I do not remember having a problem breathing because of the pressure but the air I exhaled stayed at the end of the tube and after a few minutes I felt like I needed real air. I tried to overcome this by breathing out of my nose but it became very hard to breath in this way. Tying rocks to a paint bucket and using it like a diving bell worked a whole lot better. These are definitely some of my fondest 'how did I not kill myself' memories.  Hah, we did the same! Our mums would be upset not because of the lake diving, but because if you are pumping with a foot pump for your buddies for a couple of hours, you get a serious workout and get seriously hungry afterwards. They'd always need to make more food when we were exploring the bottom of our lake. It of course took use a month to get into shape enough to pump for hours on end. But we'd take turns going underwater, usually every 30 minutes, so everyone on the pier would get at least one turn underwater per day :) When I was a kid I was amazed with how relaxing and quiet it was underwater in our 3-foot above ground pool. So I grabbed a hose and decided to lay on the bottom and breathe. I could not even generate one breath. Snorkels are effective until they are about 18 inches long.

After that, you rebreath  so much air that the oxygen gets depleted.

Air delivered under positive pressure through the hose would let you go as deep as scuba gear. I didn't make it all the way through the post, but a major detail no one that I saw had addressed; the longer that snorkel, the more recycled air (~15%O2 after the first exhale) you'll have to breathe in before attaining fresh air (20.9%o2) after a couple breaths the average % of oxygen in that dead speace will be low enough that you'll pass out. And then drown. What if you had 2 hoses, One to inhale and one to exhale? That way you'd be continuously receiving un-recycled air. This question also derives the mechanics of using diving bells as made about 200 years ago.  The air inside the diving bell was compressed according to how deep it was placed in the water.   A diver entering the bell was breathing compressed air which allowed his lungs to take in more air at less volume.  Once the diver was inside the bell, pressure equilibrium allowed him to exhale and inhale.

The best I recall, seawater weighs about 64 pounds per cubic foot.  Go down 3 feet and there is 192 pounds of seawater per cu/ft or roughly 1.3 pounds per square inch.  Chest muscles would find it impossible to overcome an additional 1.3 pounds per square inch differential. [deleted] What then if it has a valve to keep much water from going in and you just suck new air in and blow the old air out as bubbles? [deleted] A dollar coin has a mass of about 8.1 grams. For simplicity assume it to be all made out of copper (it's really about 90% copper). Copper has an atomic density of 63.55 grams/per mole, giving us 7.68 x 10^22 atoms in a dollar coin. The earth has a surface area of 5.1 x 10^8 km^2, so that if the coin were smashed until it was just a one atom thick layer of material (to maximize how far we can spread it) covering the entire earth, then each atom would occupy an area of about 7000 square microns. If the atoms were arranged in a square lattice, each copper atom would be at least 80 microns away from the next nearest atom. For regular bulk copper, atoms are spaced about 0.4 nm apart. So, the atoms would be about 200,000 times too far away from each other to form stable chemical bonds. Simply put, you no longer have a solid chunk of metal if you want it to cover the earth. You have a very sparse copper gas. 

If you subdivide the atoms, you don't have copper anymore. But subdividing won't really help anyways. If you manage to divide each copper atom into 29 hydrogen atoms (ignoring all the messy details of nuclear reactions), then the hydrogen atoms would still be 15 microns away from each other, still several thousands times too far apart to form bonds. To do it the other way round, the thickness of a dollar coin is about 2 mm, which is around 5000000 copper atoms thick. This means that we can cover an area 5 million times the area of the coin (in theory, you could do this by slicing the coin into 5 million atom-thick sheets). This gives a total possible area of 2755 m^(2). [According to WolframAlpha, this is around half the size of an American football field](http://www.wolframalpha.com/input/?i=%282mm+%2F+0.4+nm%29*pi*%2813.245+mm%29%5E2) The earth's surface area is 510.1 million km^2, so it would take close to 185 billion dollar coins! 

That's a lot of money. Precisely why a spilled barrel of oil, which spreads to be one molecule thick, does not cover the entire ocean -- despite it being composed of decidedly more molecules than a dollar coin.

Edit: noob word smith error This is English rather than physics, but A *is composed of* B = B *comprises* A. The usage is completely opposite, which makes sense because otherwise we wouldn't need a separate word like "comprise" at all. Indeed. Thank you. Very cool. But because I am dumb, I am confused. chrisbaird said the atoms arranged in a square lattice would be 200,000x too far to form stable chemical bonds. So does that mean if you had 200,000x more atoms (or 200,000x more dollar coins) it would be enough? How does it become 185 billion dollar coins?? Is some squaring involved or something?

I am dumb btw, not sure if I mentioned that before. It would be 200,000 squared which is 40 Billion. The difference between the 40 Billion and 185 Billion is just because these are inaccurate "back of the envelope" calculations where we are really only trying to get an order of magnitude idea of the answer. Don't atoms in Bose Einstein condensates massively increase in size. So moving away from a coin (although I vaguely remember copper having a supercooled property) if we created a 1 atom thin BEC that could cover the earth staying supercooled, how many atoms would it take? And in a more normal state and format how big would the object be? With regards to Copper, both stable isotopes of Copper are Fermions, so you'd have to do some finagling to get them to Bose condense (basically you have to cause them to form Cooper pairs). When the pairs condense you get a fermi superfluid. 

At the nanokelvin scale, the idea of an atom's size loses some of its meaning. You can estimate its size by calculating the thermal DeBroglie wavelength, but the atom will still interact somewhat beyond this range; it's not a hard cutoff. Similarly, the idea of 1 atom thin isn't terribly precise. The atoms can overlap even.

Finally, usually when we create BEC in the lab it is quite dilute. Like REALLY dilute. Several orders of magnitude less dilute than the air we breathe. So, it's not really clear how to fulfill the criteria of covering the Earth. Theoretically, as you cool the atoms to lower and lower temperatures, their average size continuously increases. So if you're willing to tolerate spreading your atoms very very thinly around the globe, you could do it with as few atoms as you like. On the other hand, if you want to pack them somewhat tightly then you're going beyond my theoretical knowledge and you might end up with something more like superfluid Helium than the BEC of cold atoms that I study. So in the square lattice, you have atom A and his neighbor to the right B, and his neighbor below C. We'll only worry about them, as the atom above and to the left will deal with connecting to A. So A is 200 000x too far away from B to form a bond. So we put 199 999 atoms between them and form a bond chain between A and B. 

If we do this for every atom and its right neighbor we'll increase the number of atoms in the system 200 000x. But we still don't have a full lattice, we just have lines of atoms. If you connect A to C with another 199 999 atoms you've increased the count by 400 000 times the original, and you now have a fish net of atoms. 

To fill the lattice up completely you need to use 200 000 x 200 000 more atoms. 40 000 000 000x more atoms.  &gt; How does it become 185 billion dollar coins??

&gt; To fill the lattice up completely you need to use 200 000 x 200 000 more atoms. 40 000 000 000x more atoms. 

For clarification: This is about the same. 40e9 or 185e9 are pretty much the same for such a back-of-the-envelope caluclation.
 &gt; This is about the same. 40e9 or 185e9 are pretty much the same for such a back-of-the-envelope caluclation.

I actually found it remarkable that they came out that close considering the drastically different ways it was ~~calculated~~ estimated. Hi. Can you please explain this logic? I dont even... The scales used in science range from the size of parts of atoms to the size of enormous astronomical objects.


Unless you actually intend to implement something, being able to determine the scale within a factor of 5 or so is fairly useful. In this example, both numbers give enough information to answer the OP's question. [deleted] A POG is about 1.59mm thick with a 1.5 inch diameter so probably around the same. I don't know if this shows how small an atom is or how big the earth is  [deleted] [deleted] If we had enough dollar coins to flatten them to their minimum theoretical thickness and cover the earth, the US would still be in debt.  [deleted] Well, technically, the secretary of the treasury has the right to strike any coin he wants...  even a [Trillion Dollar Coin](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Trillion_dollar_coin#Legal_basis)

    The Secretary may mint and issue bullion and proof platinum coins in 
    accordance with such specifications, designs, varieties, quantities, 
    denominations, and inscriptions as the Secretary, in the Secretary's 
    discretion, may prescribe from time to time.

 We could use Uzbekistan's one-tiyin coin which is equal to 1/100th of a som, and a som is worth 1.7 cents. So the coin is worth .017 cents. That is, if we had enough of them.

If we used this coin, we could do it for 1/5800th of the cost. So around 32 million dollars. Assuming the coin had the same mass as the dollar coin.

And if we used a coin made of Zinc, we could save nearly 3% because of the higher density. Again assuming the same mass. [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] &gt; the thickness of a dollar coin is about 2 mm, which is around 5000000 copper atoms

For some reason, I find this statistic very surprising.  Normally when dealing with atoms, we are used to working with numbers on the order of Avogadro's number.  Talking about millions of atoms at the macroscopic level seems a little surreal. My gut feeling was "it can't be right!". But it all checks out. A difference between an angstrom and a mm is only 7 orders of magnitude, and once you switch to area it gives you a linear increase of only 3 orders of magnitude. A pathetic stadium from a whole coin worth of atoms!

It's funny how we are so smart and can think about atoms and copper lattice, yet our basic intuitions of volume and scaling are so flawed! Bear in mind the difference between a line of atoms 2 mm long, and a cube 2 mm on each side. The latter would have around 10^20 atoms, which is approaching Avogadro's number Your reply is a good example to an engineer's approach to problem solving whereas the one above you is a physicist's 

kind of neat One is about finding the possibilities, the other is finding practical application. In this case, one is about determining that there is no possibility because the atoms would be too far apart for a bond, while the other determines that you can just attach the atoms to duct tape to form said "bond" and still technically accomplish the task. [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] Thats factoring the coin at its current density. Im sure it could be streatched a bit further considering atomic bonds. So, [you would need about 190 billion dollar coins?](http://www.wolframalpha.com/input/?i=surface+area+of+earth+%2F+2755+m%5E2) If somebody were to theoretically do this, what would it look and feel like to walk over 2755m^2 area of a flattented dollar coin? Well it would be one atom thick so you definitely wouldn't feel it. Not sure if you could see it though You wouldn't be able to see it because a one atom thick layer of material will not scatter or absorb enough, visible, light.

Scattering will only occur on the order of magnitude of the wavelength, or larger, of light. Since this layer would only be angstroms thick, you wouldn't get opacity from that.

Absorption occurs due to transitions in electron energy states, i.e. the energy of the wave is just enough to put an electron in a heightened energy state. For copper this happens in the blue/uv spectrum leading to the orangish color. The problem with this scenario though is that it is so thin that there aren't enough atoms to visibly affect what you see. Once an electron has been excited, it cannot be excited again until is reaches a ground-state (only absorbing one photon of blue/uv). A solid block of copper will absorb light in multiple layers of atoms, having a cumulative effect on absorbing multiple photons in the wavelengths that can return to your eyes (drops the blue/uv intensity enough to have your eyes interpret it as an orange color).

I'm sure about the scattering explanation. I'm a little shaky on the absorption, but that's my understanding. So maybe the earth is *already** covered in 1-atom-thick dollar coins, and we just don't know it...  
* Or *was*, until we stepped all over them and ruined it. If the absorption is very strong and the excited state is short, this does not matter.  What matters is the absorption cross section and the lifetime of the state (because of the eventual steady-state condition that you pointed out).  Of course, have you ever seen a sputtered gold piece of silicon?  It's RED because quantum well effects start to occur at this thickness.  Plasmon resonance, etc., all play a role on this scale.  After absorption, the re-emission CAN be scattered in any direction.  So, it would look blue. It may be visible if you get close enough to edgewise so that light has more time in proximity to bounce off or otherwise be affected.  Kinda like how roads look reflective if it's almost aligned with your sight. Wouldn't you just step right through it like any other extremely thin material? Yes. aluminum foil is much much thicker and you can easily step through that. [deleted] [deleted] I'm not good at math either but it is a very simple equation. 

**2mm/0.4nm** is to find how many layer of atoms there is. (Thickness of a coin divided by thickness of an atom)

**Pi times  square radius** is the area formula of a circle or a coin. (3.14 times coin's radius times coin's radius)

Together: How wide of a one atom thick layer of copper can we get out of a 2mm thick coin. [deleted] So, for the converse, then - how big of a coin (assuming the same dimensions as a US dollar coin) would be needed to provide enough copper to encapsulate the Earth one atom thick? If the atoms are 200,000 times too far apart to be solid metal in this scenario, then you need 200,000 times as much coin to make it work.  Squared.

http://www.wolframalpha.com/input/?i=surface+area+of+earth+%2F+%280.4+nm+*+0.4+nm%29+*+%28atomic+mass+of+copper%29

That's about 1% of Earth's annual production.  200,000 8.1 g coins weighs 1,620,000 grams which is 3571.49 lbs, about as much as a normal car. The answer you're replying to is wrong. It's 200,000^2. So like 200,000 cars. Ahh, thanks. If you are right another way to put that is 700 million lbs or 6 full size cruise ships, which seems more realistic. &gt;The answer you're replying to is wrong. It's 200,000^2. So like 200,000 cars.

I spent way too much time trying to figure how you got this than I'd like to admit. Thank you. That's the analogy I've been looking for. An everyday item to actually comprehend the values.  Woah very interesting. So how much metal of any type are we talking in order to get full coverage of Earth while still maintaining bonds?  &gt;[The earth has a surface area of 5.1 x 10^8 km^2](http://www.reddit.com/r/askscience/comments/38pxid/if_i_had_a_1_dollar_coin_could_i_theoretically/crwx6qh)

&gt;[We can cover an area 5 million times the area of the coin.](http://www.reddit.com/r/askscience/comments/38pxid/if_i_had_a_1_dollar_coin_could_i_theoretically/crwyaqe)

We would need 102 km^2 of laid out copper coins, assuming each coin is 5m atoms thick.

Edit: Assuming no gaps. How many dollars is that? If we say that a coin is about 3 cm diameter, then the radius is .015 m is .000015 km. Coin is roughly 7.068510^-10 km^2.

If my math is right, roughly $144,300,000,000. But I used a lot of estimation and assumptions.

To put this in perspective, the US national debt is $18.7+ trillion. That's $18,700,000,000,000. 

America's national debt is roughly equivalent to the cost of plating the world in copper, 130 atoms thick. Actually (and maybe this is interesting), as the melt value of a dollar coin is currently only $0.046 it would only cost $6,637,800,000 in copper to cover the earth. I'm also a big fan of this site I just googled: http://www.coinflation.com/coins/2000-2007-Sacagawea-Golden-Dollar-Value.html &gt; 130 atoms thick

would that be able to support itself? A grain of dust is generally at least 10,000 or so atoms thick, so no. Any kind of breeze will destroy it. That raises further practicality problems. Is there even that much copper on the planet? And if someone actually used that much copper wouldn't it inflate in value to be worth far more than the actual currency it was minted into, and therefore at least several times more than the entire US national debt? Lets assume that the 102km^2 is a perfect square. Each side would be sqrt(102)km in length, which is around 10.0995km, equal to 10,099,500mm. The dollar coin has a diameter of 26.5 mm. This means that each side would be 381,113.207 coins long. Square this number for total coins and you get 145,247,276,549 and a bit coins, equal to around 145.2 billion US dollars in coins.

This is assuming that the surface area was calculated for round coins instead of a giant area, and that may very well be an incorrect assumption. Someone please correct me if my math is wrong. Alternative Question: Whats the smallest common object that we could theoretically flatten in this way and still cover the earth in a stable way?

EDIT: Ok. That question is far too vague (But I never intended for right answers so much as having an interesting little factoid about an object that may be flatted)... So: What would be the easiest substance to 'spread' like this (cover the most distance while still forming stable bonds), and how much of it would you need to cover the earth? It depends on the material the object is made from, your definition of common, your definition of stable and your definition of object. Let's say a common object is something you may have used at some point.

Another person said it would be like 6 full sized cruise ships. Not small at all. Assuming it was only flattened enough to remain a metal, what would a 1 atom thick sheet of copper look like? [deleted] &gt; some unique properties of carbon

I believe those properties are similar to those that you would see in a metal (electron delocalization), and so they might be more similar in appearance than you would think.
 In only a single layer of graphene electron delocalisation is not as it is in graphite. The bonds between layers in graphite exhibit electron delocalisation but the bonds between carbon atoms in the hexagonal lattice that makes up one graphene layer do not. How about with a modern 1 troy ounce Silver American Eagle? They're  99.93% silver. Or how about a Morgan silver dollar? They're 38.1 mm diameter, 90% silver 10% copper. Total weight is 26.73 grams. 0.773433 troy ounces of silver, 0.085937 troy ounces copper, total of 0.85937 troy ounces (26.73 g). [deleted] [deleted] I love answers like this. 

I have no idea what inspires you to do it, but I'm glad that you do. 

Kudos to you.  We talking Sacajawea dollars or Eisenhower dollars?

Edit:  I'm figuring that you are referencing Sacajawea dollars.  Ikes are between 22.68-24.59 grams.
 So how many dollar coins would it take to have a stable area ? So is that a yes? How many coins would you need to fulfill OP's question? Area of the earth in m^2 divided by the area the coin would cover:

510,072,000,000 / 2755 = 185,144,102 coins [deleted] If you are still starting with the volume of a dollar coin, hydrogen would give you the most "coverage" when spread one atom thin. A dollar coin of hydrogen would have 4.7856 x 10^24 atoms, but still wouldn't be enough to cover Earth. How big would a piece of copper have to be to to cover the earth and retain a stable chemical bond? Well, the indicated coing is too light by a factor of 200,000, so a coin that's *not* too light needs to be 200,000 times heavier than the one given.  If we're keeping the material consistent, that translates to a volume 200,000 times greater.  This can be achieved in a variety of ways; r^(2)h must equal 200,000, where r is the scale by which you increase the radius, and h is the scale by which you increase the radius.  You could set r to 100 and h to 20, or r to 200 and h to 5.  This would be a coin 100 times the radius of a dollar coin and 20 times as thick, or a coin 200 times as wide and 5 times as thick.  This is, of course, assuming the initial case of a 100% copper coin. You need to square the 200k factor, because the amount of copper in the surface is quadratic in the distance between atoms. Is your measurement for earth is based off of the circumference of earth? Wouldn't this measurement exclude the surface areas of mountains and valleys? The radius of the earth ranges from [6,353 km to 6,384 km (3,9473,968 mi)](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Earth_radius), which is a change of about 0.5%. This is small enough that in these general approximations they do not make much of a difference. ~1% change in surface area or about half the size of the US.

Surprisingly these minimum and maximum points are probably not where you expect. The maximum is the [Chimborazo volcano in Ecuador (on the equator)](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Chimborazo) and the minimum is in the Arctic Ocean. How many dollar coins would you need to coat the earth in copper? So all you're saying is I need $200,000 to cover the earth in dollar coins?! Who's starting a go fund me?! Hey. Materials scientist here. The short answer is that one silver dollar coin would cover 1.99*10^-9% of Earth's surface. That's roughly 2 billionths of a percent. So let's look at the details.

Assume we're considering a US silver dollar. The US mint website says they're approximately 1 troy ounce of 99.9% pure silver. Let's make that and even troy ounce of 100% silver. One troy ounce is 31.1 grams. Divided by the molar mass of silver (107 g/mole) and multiplied by Avogadro's number (units of atoms/mole), we have 1.736*10^23 silver atoms. Now consider the atomic radius of metallic silver, 130 pm (picometers, or 10^-12 meters). One atom would occupy an area of pi*(130 pm)^2, therefore giving us a total area of 9217 m^2. But wait there's more. Pure metals tend to crystalize in a hexagonal close packed structure when considered in 2D. The packing efficiency of such a structure is 0.9069 (see Wikipedia's entry on Circle Packing). Thus and therefore, the actual area occupied by a 1 troy ounce silver good ole fashioned American dollar would be 10163 m^2. Considering Earth's surface area of 5.1*10^14 meters, our coin would cover 2 billionths of a percent. To add to this, suppose we wanted to know how many coins we'd need smashed one atom thick to cover Earth's surface. Working backwards through the aforementioned calculations, it would require 50.2 billion coins. For comparison, everybody alive on earth today would need 7.7 coins. After reading this I wanted to see how much silver there is on Earth

so with the power of google I found there's apparently [1,411,475 tonnes of silver, currently in existence and "lost throughout history"](http://www.zerohedge.com/news/2013-03-01/visualizing-all-silver-world), and unless I'm stupid that's 45,379,975,000 (43 billion) troy ounces of silver. So that'd cover about 90 percent of earth.

I'm not sure if the amount of silver is accurate (it was the first result, maybe you have a more accurate number) and I think it only includes mined silver, I have no idea how to figure out the un-mined amount of silver left (can that even be figured out? or estimated at least?)

again, this is back of a napkin math mostly based on your two posts, and I don't want anybody thinking I know what I'm talking about. Ben Franklin did this with a similar amount of oil on water:

'He "fetched out a cruet of oil, and dropt a little of it on the water."  Ben wrote that "it spread itself with surprising swiftness upon the surface....and there the oil, though not more than **a teaspoonful**, produced and instant calm over a space several yards square, which spread amazingly, and extended itself gradually till it reached the lee side, making all that quarter of the pond, **perhaps half an acre**, as smooth as a looking glass."

...  Importantly, he wrote about how a given quantity of olive oil would only cover a set amount of pond surface.  **Twice the volume of oil would cover twice the area of pond surface.**  Ben concluded that there was a limit to how thin the oil could be spread.  He carefully recorded the volumes of oil and the surface areas that they covered.  We don't actually know whether he calculated the thickness of the oil layers (it isn't recorded in his notes), but if he did, his measurements would have predicted a thickness of approximately 10 Angstroms (one Angstrom is approximately one ten-billionth of a meter).  This would have been a remarkably close measurement of the thickness of a single-molecule thick layer (called a "monolayer") of triolein, one of the major lipids in olive oil.  Had he written this down, it would have been the first recorded measurement of the size of a single molecule.  It wasn't until over 100 years later in 1890 that the scientist and eventual Nobel Prize winner John William Strutt, better known as **Lord Rayleigh, repeated these experiments and measured the thickness of the triolein monolayer as 16 Angstroms.**'

Source: http://www.themadscienceblog.com/2010/07/scientific-exploits-of-ben-franklin.html This piece of story shows exactly why lab notes must be as meticulous, extensive and detailed as possible. Here is my approximation, which is a bit simpler that some of the top answers here. Multiply the surface area of the earth by the thickness of a copper atom. Divide that by the volume of a copper coin: [wolfram alpha link](http://www.wolframalpha.com/input/?i=%28surface%20area%20of%20the%20earth%20*%20radius%20of%20copper%20atom%20*%202%29%20%2F%20%28volume%20of%201%20dollar%20coin%29&amp;dataset=)

You need approximately 120 billion coins to do this, which seems to be in line with the other answers here. Some very good answers here, but I've got another twist for you: The surface of the earth is approximately fractal at most scales until you reach the molecular level (where the term "surface" stops making sense). This means that the surface area of the earth, as "seen" by copper atoms is a lot larger than the 10^14 m^2 which is assumed in the other replies. Theoretically, it should be possible to flatten the coin enough that if placed in the correct location relative to the sun, you could cover the earth with the shadow.

In answer to your actual question, there is insufficient mass in the object to maintain molecular cohesion. According to /u/xilefakamot the coin could be stretched to 2755 m2. In a circle this gives us a radius of 29.6m.

From my understanding you are referring to the fact that the shadow of an object increases infinitely as the object approaches a point of light. However, this is not the case when it comes to the sun which is not a single point of light.


Take a solar eclipse as an example: the moon does block out the sun but only a small location on the Earth and this location would actually get smaller if the moon were closer to the sun.


This means that the coin would need to have at least the radius of the earth(6,371 km). but could you cover the earth in a shadow with an unflattened coin? I don't think so If you consider "covering the Earth in a shadow" to mean entirely covering the Earth in its [umbra](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Umbra,_penumbra_and_antumbra), then it is impossible for an umbra larger than the object to be cast by an extended light source. At most, for large distances, if you assume the light rays will be parallel, then the umbra will be as large as the object. So you'd need to be at least as big as Earth to entirely cover it in a completely dark shadow.

If you allow for a penumbra that entirely covers earth (think of a partial solar eclipse), then it should be possible. I'll try to do the math.

EDIT: Did the math, it was just two similar triangles. The result is: http://www.wolframalpha.com/input/?i=%28earth+distance+from+sun%29*%28%28diameter+of+a+dollar+coin%29%2F%28earth+diameter%29%29

The coin would have to be ~300m (or ~1000ft) away from the Sun if the Sun was a flat disc. So you can't do that, no! Most of the bans or restrictions on use have taken place in the last 5-15 years; this is probably not long enough to understand whether there are differences in the rate of cancer.  Cancer often has a latency time of 20 years or more.  

This is a big topic with a relatively new chemical safety law in Europe, REACH (Registration, Evaluation, Authorization (and Restriction) of Chemicals).  This was nominally one of the rationales for passage.  We will see in the long term whether or not it was effective.   &gt; Cancer often has a latency time of 20 years or more.

Not to mention epigenetic effects that may affect subsequent generations - possibly giving a latency measured in generation[s] to non-cancerous effects that would not usually be associated with that sort of latency. While possible, it should be noted that trans-generational epigenetic effects appear to be extremely rare.  Really? I understood there was evidence that something as simple as a caloric deficit near the onset of puberty could translate into a multi-generational effect. Yes, there have been proven effects of factors such as smoking and food availability across one or more generations!

The best known example is [here](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/%C3%96verkalix_study), based on the very accurate records of a small Swedish church in a place called verkalix over many years. There's a wikipedia page specifically about [trans-generational epigenetics](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Transgenerational_epigenetics#Contribution_to_phenotypes), I've linked to the section most relevant to humans and this discussion. 

I learned about this through a [Radiolab podcast about the Swedish study, which I recommend, along with everything else they've made!](http://www.radiolab.org/story/251885-you-are-what-your-grandpa-eats/)


edit: Apparently this is controversial, and they may only have got these results because they tried so many possible associations until some came out significant. Thank you to /u/majlon for pointing this out! Worth noting that they have been criticized for having issues its statistical legitimacy. I only have a swedish sources [1](http://www.dn.se/nyheter/vetenskap/karin-bojs-falsk-matematik-om-farmors-matvanor/) [2] (http://haggstrom.blogspot.se/2014/10/epigenetiken-i-overkalix-och-den.html) for that but the basis is that they dont compensate for testing many different hypothesises which is illustrated by [xkcd] (http://xkcd.com/882/) (known as data dredging).  While it could possibly point to correlation  they make strong claims in the report that aren't supported by the data. Thank you, I didn't know about that, and didn't realise this was controversial. 

Chrome's translation of the Swedish articles was totally readable (which I am amazed by), thank you for those!
 Thanks, this was the one I was thinking of. Good to know it's controversial, but still interesting. That isn't necessarily epigenetic; lower intelligence in a parent could very easily lower educational attainment and hence IQ in children due to poverty,  etc. Is this 'rarity' a reflection of the fact that we haven't been looking?  I mean, it is very hard to dissect out such effects in human populations, and as mentioned elsewhere in this thread, the statistics are dodgy.

But on the other hand, experiments with lab species broadly seem to support such findings. Experiments with dogs show strong support for ketogenic diets but no human studies ever have. We aren't lab species and can differ in critical ways.  Source? How can we possibly know that with any meaningful confidence intervals? Are you asking for proof that something is not happening in significant frequency? There was a double cancer peak for survivors of the Atomic Bombings in Japan, cases of leukaemia started showing up 5 years later and peaked 10 years after the bombings, there was then a second peak about 20-30 years later involving solid cancers.

310 people died of leukaemia between 1950-2000, out of 86,611 survivors studied.

So it's possible that a drop in leukaemia cases might seen now if the withdrawn chemicals are linked to e.g. childhood leukaemia. 

http://www.rrjournal.org/doi/abs/10.1667/RR1801.1 There is a drastic difference between cancer that comes at the response of heavy radiation exposure and cancer that would come about due to chemicals. For example, someone who starts smoking in their teens typically don't see any cancer until their 40s.
http://thechart.blogs.cnn.com/2011/04/20/how-quickly-does-lung-cancer-develop-for-smokers/comment-page-2/ (yes, CNN Q&amp;A, but the one who answers is the CMO at the ACS) Oddly enough, smoking partly increases Lung cancer via a synergistic interaction with radon exposure, radiation. Smoking increases a person's sensitivity to radon by 6 fold. Targeting smoking reduction may be more effective than reducing radon exposure. It appears smoking reduces the lungs ability to repair radiation damage.

Lantz, P. M., Mendez, D., &amp; Philbert, M. A. (2013). Radon, smoking, and lung cancer: the need to refocus radon control policy. American journal of public health, 103(3), 443-447. Wow,  very interesting,  thank you for sharing that.  Possibly because cigarette smoke has radioactive polonium in it, and exposes the smoker to a constant low-dose?

http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC2509609/

&gt;The major tobacco manufacturers discovered that polonium was part of tobacco and tobacco smoke more than 40 years ago and attempted, but failed, to remove this radioactive substance from their products. Internal tobacco industry documents reveal that the companies suppressed publication of their own internal research to avoid heightening the publics awareness of radioactivity in cigarettes. Tobacco companies continue to minimize their knowledge about polonium-210 in cigarettes in smoking and health litigation. Cigarette packs should carry a radiation-exposure warning label.

 That's the first I'm hearing of this, thanks for the info and a new way to look at cigarettes. Hopefully this gets more attention soon That's way cool. I didn't know that. I do think, however, that there still would be a difference in cancer-appearance time between direct, mass amounts of radiation (an A-bomb) and just having your sensitivity to ambient radiation increased.  Isn't there also some level at which the tobacco in cigarettes is also radioactive? I though I read somewhere that tobacco plants can function as radiation sequesterants or something to that effect-? &gt; There is a drastic difference between cancer that comes at the response of heavy radiation exposure and cancer that would come about due to chemicals.

So you could look at a cancerous tumor and figure out if it was caused by chemicals or caused by radiation?  Yes, most likely as the changes that occur with radiation are more random than those caused by chemicals, that is to say as long as we have seen cancer caused by a chemical many times in the past we could reasonably assume a person with the same cancer was exposed to the same (or similar) carcinogen. As a for instance, if you have mesothelioma odds are pretty good you didn't get it from long hours spent sun bathing.   Are you saying there are carcinogens which produce targeted mutations? I thought all carcinogens were just generic mutagens. Can't imagine how any non-organic chemical would target specific genes. No I am saying that certain types of cancers are normally caused by certain types of exposure to certain carcinogens, the location and type of cancer can be a good indication as to what damaged the DNA [mesothelioma](http://www.lung.org/lung-disease/mesothelioma/understanding-mesothelioma.html) is not normally associated with radiation exposure.  Mesothelioma does not directly cause DNA damage and mutation in cells that leads to cancer, there's three possibilities - Free radicals, chromosome tangling or adsorption and concentration of carcinogenic molecules (proteins, cigarette smoke) on fibre surface.

http://www.researchgate.net/profile/Shinya_Toyokuni/publication/24270119_Mechanisms_of_asbestos-induced_carcinogenesis/links/02bfe5125f9c360ebb000000.pdf I just always wonder how much of the chemicals can be attributed to the rise in ADD, Autism, etc. There really hasn't been an increase in the rates of autism since about 1992, if memory serves.   The [CDC](http://www.cdc.gov/ncbddd/autism/data.html) finds there been a doubling of autism rates from 2000 to 2010. However, there's also been greater awareness, so more people are likely to be diagnosed, and more recently, the diagnostic criteria for autism has changed. 
 http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25365033

http://journals.cambridge.org/action/displayAbstract?fromPage=online&amp;aid=9495906

There's a pretty strong case for any increase being a result of changes in diagnostic criteria and reporting.  These are just two articles out of a larger body of literature. The causes of autism and ADD are still not known. No one has discovered an autism virus, like there is an ebolavirus. In this situation any claims about causing autism are suspect. Maybe X causes autism. But, maybe Y causes both X and autism, so they appear together.

But, it's a valid question. Lead in gasoline was shown to cause childhood brain damage that manifests itself as low IQ and violent behavior. Anything obviously neurotoxic would have hard time surviving current regulations. Thank you.  Kind of. I really hope they put an end to lead in aviation fuel soon. It accounts for more than half of all US lead emissions. Baggage handlers at airports have poor health for a very obvious reason. Children living within a kilometer of an airport have elevated blood lead levels. Avgas for Private planes still has lead but it is phasing out. Jet Fuel for passenger or military jets does not have lead. I have never heard of bag handlers having problem related to lead exposure. Got a source? Wow that's horrifying! Do you have any data on this? I want to share it For those interested: NPR's Planet Money did an episode comparing the use of the precautionary principle in the EU and U.S. when it comes to farming and GMOs.

http://www.npr.org/sections/parallels/2013/07/08/199168194/EU-U-S-Trade-A-Tale-Of-Two-Farms This sounds like what is called an 'ecological study'. Countries wich allow these (unnamed) substances exhibit higher prevalences of unspecified cancer. 
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ecological_study
These are very weak studies, prone to massive effects of confounding. Comparing the EU (which is very diverse itself) to the US or Canada is not just comparing a region without these substances to one that allows them but there are innumerable other differences between these regions and no conclusions regarding causality can be drawn.

If studies have shown that an exposure to these substances means an increased cancer risk then that is powerful evidence for banning them. It is highly unlikely that the same substances are not carcinogenic to people in the US or Canada. Whether this compelling evidence actually exists has to be verified on a case-to-case basis. How do they decide if it is more likely to give you cancer or not? There is a decision-making tree for this in various countries.

You start with comparison with similar substances.  This is definitely not perfect.  This can be done with visual inspection, or through computerized modeling called Quantitative Structure Activity Relationships.  Generally, this is coupled with some basic assays like Ames or other in vitro type (there are several).  

If there is a sign that the substance can mutate DNA, then it'll be tested on animals, usually a small number to start.  

In numerous cases, carcinogenicity is tested in conjunction with a chronic toxicity assay with repeated doses, lasting up to 2 years.  These assays used to look only for general pathology throughout the test organisms (and I mean throughout - the list of tissues examined is staggering), but there is special emphasis on looking for neoplasms as well now.  

Sometimes epidemiology comes into play as well.  Very rarely, a substance can make it through all of these tests looking negative and wind up having an association with a particular type of cancer in occupationally exposed persons.  (More frequently, the substance tests positive in animals, and the evidence is incredibly weak in humans ... dioxin is a good example).  

The availability of alternatives is also a factor.  If there is another substance that still accomplishes the purpose but isn't carcinogenic (or doesn't have as much concern), then substitution is desirable.  

Does that answer your question?   what dioxins have weak evidence in humans? I was always taught these are like to worst of the worst in terms of carcinogens. Yes, that's the standard line.  Dioxin is a very, very potent carcinogen in laboratory animals.  But it clearly is not as carcinogenic in humans.  There are pretty few studies which robustly show the link between increased rates of cancer in humans and dioxin exposures.   Wasn't the issue with Agent Orange the high levels of dioxin in some batches? And then people who were exposed developed cancer and other issues. Wikipedia certainly makes the link sound convincing.

&gt;A 1969 report authored by K. Diane Courtney and others found 2,4,5-T could cause birth defects and stillbirths in mice.[24] Several studies have shown an increased rate of cancer mortality for workers exposed to 2,4,5-T. In one such study, from Hamburg, Germany, the risk of cancer mortality increased by 170% after working for 10 years at the 2,4,5-T-producing section of a Hamburg manufacturing plant.[17] Three studies have suggested prior exposure to Agent Orange poses an increased risk of acute myelogenous leukemia in the children of Vietnam veterans.[12] Yes, that was the issue.  But overall, the evidence from the Ranch Hand cohorts is not very convincing.   [deleted] In science a discovery is generally thought of as "shown to be accurate and statistically significant in two or more independent studies". In biology, independent means that the labs are not "geneologically" related, ideally competitors. This is to reduce the number of common causes of false detections. The number of studies doesn't matter; the number of independent studies does. So for instance a study on mice in Israel, a study on cats in Iran and a study on humans in Belarussia would be good, if each are valid, accurately reported and statistically significant.

Meta-analytical review of multiple studies is the only thing considered more accurate than this. A review article writer can look at the studies from the perspective of an uninvolved outsider. [deleted] One way would be a control study. Get a bunch of mice and split them into two groups. Have one group exposed to the suspected carcinogen and the other remain free of any exposure. 

Then after a period of time compare the cancer rates of the two groups. If there is a noticeable increase in cancer rates in the non-control group then it is likely that the suspected carcinogen is the cause. Just a quick disclaimer this is a big simplification of a cancer study.  Don't forget (i) that humans can get cancer from things mice can't and vice versa and (ii) that one study proves nothing until others replicate the results

I know you know that but wanted to mention it for others reading your post.  The EU prefers to abide by the [The Precautionary Principle](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Precautionary_principle) more than the U.S.   This is it in a nutshell. I don't know when we (canada) departed from the precautionary principle but I don't think chemicals should be considered innocent until proven guilty. They should be considered unsafe until proven otherwise. The problem is that it is not actually possible to prove something safe. Best you can do is say "we've not seen any issues where we looked". 

Conversely, if you prove a chemical unsafe, companies sometime change an inconsequential atom on the molecule, and now you have to prove it is still unsafe, even if it is very very likely.

Regulation chemicals is therefore very tricky business, and this is one of the areas where we can expect shenanigans from the trade agreements.  Another issue with the precautionary principle is that people often fail to take into account relative risks. There are most certainly cases where a small risk is worth having. Some would argue that the ban on DDT has done more harm than good, for instance.

Certainly, taken to the extreme, the precautionary principle will lead to many incorrect decisions, since zero-risk cannot be achieved. To some degree, the US has benefited from EU requirements.  In many cases, international companies have modified their products to meet EU requirements as opposed to carrying different products for different regions. [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] Most major companies (especially in pharma) have internal guidelines that force them to operate at the most stringent regulations - e.g., it is unethical to outsource a process or product to China that is considered too hazardous to be done in Europe or the US. Therefore, for the next few years, many European companies will operate at a disadvantage to US based ones.  I don't think that the unethical part is the reason.

It's more cost effective to do one product for the global market instead of doing 5 different product to target 5 different legislations. And to be able to sell the same product everywhere you have to target the most restrictive one.
 While I agree that looking at aggregate averages  between the EU and the US is too messy to get much out of,  is it not possible to look at aggregate trends. That is to say, if there is a sizable (statistically significant) drop in cancer rates after the ban takes effect in the EU and no similar change in the trend in the US it's likely that the drop is the result the ban. This is difficult because, as the person above outlined, there are huge demographic and environmental differences between the US and the EU. 

A statistically significant drop in cancer rates, on its own, is difficult to interpret. If we see a decrease in cancer rates after substance X is banned, we can argue that substance X was causing cancer. But maybe the decrease is due to diets in the EU improving, relative to the US; a decrease in smoking; better exercise... there are myriad alternative explanations.
 
It's not enough to demonstrate a statistically significant drop in cancer rates - you need to demonstrate that this drop is due the substance being banned. That is much harder to prove.  not to mention that any drop in cancer occurrence actually related to banned chemicals (many of them in foods) won't become visible for years. Attaching that to a cause outside lab environments could be difficult. In addition to /u/franklymydeer's point, cancer studies in particular have to deal with cancer's long and unpredictable lag time. A carcinogen ban passed now might start significantly affecting cancer rates five, ten, twenty years from now. Maybe even longer. The problem is that cancer doesn't just go away instantly once you ban something. It will take some 20 years to see results and then you can't really compare which substance actually did what. So why are they not banned in USA? lobbying? Uncertainty? Different standards of proof.

The USA will usually ban when you can demonstrate the substance is dangerous.

The EU doesn't allow it unless you can prove it is safe. No, this is not correct. EU may have tougher standards, but it can't prove a chemical is absolutely safe prior to use. The US also requires safety testing on many chemicals prior to use. It's a sliding scale, not black and white thinking.  [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] No organochlorine insecticide is 100% safe for humans; DDT just happens to be less toxic than others like dieldrin or chlordane.  They all work by the same mechanism, which is neurological disruption.  Enough exposure to DDT will kill you, it's just that it's not as readily absorbed as some of the other organochlorine insectidides.  [Here's a scholarly article on the subject from Environmental Health Perspectives.](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC1567810/pdf/envhper00420-0241.pdf) [deleted] There's always a trade off in regulation. Take a pesticide for example. If you ban it in favor of a potentially safer, but more expensive, alternative the cost of food may rise. That may result in fewer people eating fresh fruits and vegetables which may cause more harm than the pesticide you banned. 

The US takes a more restrained approach to regulation whereas the EU is more cautious. I don't think we really know at this point which approach is best in the long term.  On the other hand, some food additives are perfectly ok and common in Europe but not allowed in USA. Like [vegetable carbon](http://www.ddwcolor.com/colorant/vegetable-carbon/). There was a very clear downward trend in crime rates that correlated with the switch to unleaded gasoline.  The drop followed predictably as the ban on leaded swept across different regions.

There is precedent for measuring these kinds of effects.  It would be very interesting to see studies done on OPs question. &gt; If studies have shown that an exposure to these substances means an increased cancer risk then that is powerful evidence for banning them.

"Evidence for banning them"?  Way to leap across the is-ought gap. Why are they unnamed? I don't know about all the substances that are banned by the EU and in use in the USA, but I do know several that were banned in my country and had to be allowed as we joined the EU. A lot of these substances were banned because of allergic reactions in a small partition of the populace, as an example Azo compaunds ( https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Azo_compound ). The reasons for EU-USA bansa might be similar (relating to "other harms" in your question) [This paper goes a long way](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4399291/?report=printable) towards answering your questions on whether currently unregulated endocrine disrupting chemicals hurt- yes they do. 
  See 

*J Clin Endocrinol Metab. 2015 Apr; 100(4): 12451255.*

Published online 2015 Mar 5. doi:  10.1210/jc.2014-4324
PMCID: PMC4399291

**Estimating Burden and Disease Costs of Exposure to Endocrine-Disrupting Chemicals in the European Union**

http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4399291/?report=printable

***Conclusions: "EDC exposures in the EU are likely to contribute substantially to disease and dysfunction across the life course with costs in the hundreds of billions of Euros per year. These estimates represent only those EDCs with the highest probability of causation; a broader analysis would have produced greater estimates of burden of disease and costs."***

Some background on the interplay between currently pending trade deals and chemical regulation, globally. its [not a pretty picture](http://www.ciel.org/Chem/TTIP_1Oct2014.html). 

The trade deals are also [attacking public education and science](http://www.eua.be/Libraries/Publication/EUA_Statement_TTIP.sflb.ashx).  That's an excellent source, thank you. &gt;The EU acts on the precautionary principle and has banned many products suspected of being carcinogens or causing other harms.

In the above quote you talk about the EU specifically, but I am going to speak in more general terms and replace "EU" with "a country".

I work in a food safety laboratory as a chemist and in this lab we do a lot of import and export testing. If a company wants to ship a cargo container of X product overseas they may have to get it tested for certain contaminants banned in the country that it will be sold in. Some of these countries ban a certain containment under the guise that is is harmful, but are really doing it to set up trade barriers between countries. The example that I am thinking of, and that we deal with in my laboratory, is the feed additive [ractopamine](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ractopamine). This is not a steroid (steroids are a specific class of compounds) but it does help livestock put on lean mass. It is used in basically all US pork production, but is banned in China and Russia. The consensus around my lab is that the substance is actually safe for human consumption in the levels found in US pork, but is banned in certain countries to stop the importation of US pork. Basically it is used as a way to set up trade barriers without singling out a specific country in legislation.

I just wanted to make you aware of this point in this discussion, even though it didn't necessarily answer your question. ractopamine is banned in the EU as well, what would be the need to set up EU-USA trade barriers? Domestic Pig farmers in EU countries very much want trade barriers to importation of cheap American pork from gigantic efficient pig factories. Japan has this amazing habit of discovering a new and ever-more-implausible reason why imported American apples will bring diseases. Eventually after difficult and extremely expensive testing disproved every one of their claims they relented... sort of.

They said the test only proved the safety of *that specific cultivar* of apple and would have to be re-done for every other cultivar the American growers might like to export. Incidentally, the cultivar tested first proved to be unpopular with Japanese consumers, who found it overly sour.

Keep these kinds of problems in mind when you hear about how trade treaties are *empowering corporations to override national sovereignty and wreck the environment,* etc. But that's exactly what most trade agreements are designed to do. 

They are the tools of modern imperialism, a few pieces of silly bureaucracy may be swept out of the way in their wake and some might even argue that its a good thing to sacrifice national sovereignty in exchange for corporate influence, but either way you can't deny what it is. Free trade is a good thing, and it is impossible for free trade agreements to hold up without some kind of limitation or oversight on various forms of disguised trade barriers.

I do not like your style of arguing by bare assertion and trying to write your opponent's lines for them pre-emptively, either. Free trade has its benefits and I am generally not in favour of any disguised trade barriers such as the example in your earlier post, I am referring more to the unrelated conditions which so often come with trade deals, the much publicized TPPA of course being the most current example. 

Also I'm not trying to write anyone's lines pre-emptively I was just trying to simplify a complex viewpoint into a single sentence, which seems to be exactly what you did in your original post.  Japan has some pretty sick apples though, I can understand them not wanting McApples putting their growers out of business. I have a feeling that exporters from country A to B is always going to say safety regulations in B are a trade barrier, while for B it is of course a reasonable safety measure. I don't know about rates of disease, but there are some fairly undeniable changes as a result of certain bans.  For instance in North America almost everything we buy comes heavily pre-treated with fire retardant chemicals: furniture, electronics, baby clothes (legally required to be treated), etc.  In the EU these treatments are banned because they've been proven to cause bio-accumulation of PBDE's which are linked to developmental disorders and are suspected carcinogens.  Within only about 3 years of instituting the ban, Swedish studies showed a 30% drop in PBDE concentration in human breast milk, which had been increasing rapidly before the Swedish ban.  North American levels are about 75% higher than European levels.

The long term health implications of such data have yet to be proven, but it's pretty clear evidence that different environmental exposures can cause pretty drastic and rapid changes in our bodies, and this is just for one chemical class in particular.  Given more time and data there's a chance that these differences may be linked to health issues, but so far I don't think anything has been proven conclusively.  It seems to be a bit of a waiting game. but how many premature deaths by fire do they have? Fire retardant use as required by TB 117 in California (and because of the size of its market, across the US) does not appreciably reduce the risk of fire, actually. [Source](http://fire.nist.gov/bfrlpubs/fire83/PDF/f83013.pdf). As an American, I'm curious about the dynamics of this. In the U.S., there's this idea that we should *never* ban *something* without overwhelming evidence that it's bad, oftentimes backed by the clout of those parties who have an invested interest in that *something* (and even if there is evidence, people still fight like crazy to keep the regulators from doing their job). In the EU, it seems that if there's even an iota of evidence that that *something* could be harmful, they move to restrict it until science can better establish if that *something* is harmful.

This issue with the chemical ban is a good example of this. The EU would rather be cautious than risk playing games with people's health, but in America people (well, no, politicians and industry lobbyists more likely) would be up in arms about how these bans "hurt industry", all the while their poor constituents around the chemical plant are ingesting chemicals, for example.

I have a vague idea of the sociological and cultural aspects of this phenomenon, but I was hoping someone could elaborate. As an European, I think it's just the mentality. it's just two sides of the same coin.
When it concerns food and saftety, the EU is annoyingly conservative. For example the extreme strict regulations for GMOs and Irradiated food. I'm all for the environment, health, nature,... but some of our green politicians are just very naive. 

We should meet somewhere in the middle.
 
The American way is the other side of the coin. 
Seriously chlorinated chicken... sure, it's cheap but not something to be proud of. Our chicken is starting to be processed in China, chlorinating may now be the only way to keep it safe? (And even if there is evidence...)

And likewise even if there is no evidence some people will continue to think something is bad because they read it in a blog written by some "expert". 

There are substances banned in the US that aren't banned in the UK btw. When it comes to food safety EU is laxed on things like raw milk because consumer preferences  forced the bar lower. It's not black and white where the EU is always safer than the US.  [deleted] [deleted] What a load of baloney. /u/christ0ph is a well known conspiracy theorist (by reddit standards), who has bizarre view such as that all nuclear power should be shit down because of solar flares, that Obamacare is evil, that some journalist that he agrees with (and who tragically died) was killed to silence them, and that the U.S. shouldn't export things because of some upcoming global catastrophe in trade due to volcanoes or some such, that means the U.S. should remain self sufficient. 

He references provisions he barely understands, of trade agreements he hasn't read in their entirety to try and weave some grim vision of the future. When challenged, he'll force you to run a gish gallop until you give in, inundating you with countless links that he also hasn't read, but is certain support his view. 

/u/moptic has already countered his insanity with some actually authoritative sources (rather than blogs and biased NGOs that are completely unrelated to the negotiations), I just thought others should understand why not to listen to a word he says. 

I've called him out for this bullshit dozens of times in the past [such as here](http://www.reddit.com/r/BritishPolitics/comments/2j3m7x/uk_government_to_sell_eurostar_stake_before/cl8g0fd?context=3) where he doesn't understand some of the basic terminology he's using. 

To add to the list of actually factual documents supplied by /u/moptic, [here's a response from DG Trade (the body negotiating TTIP on behalf of the EU) to the UK House of Commons Health Committee](http://www.parliament.uk/documents/commons-committees/Health/Health-Committee-TTIP-correspondence.pdf). They rather explicitly contradict everything he says. [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] This is a good question hopefully more people will ask. Tough to find proof but if you look at stories like DDT you will see how hard it is to get people to agree on these things, and now it seems like it should have been a no brainer. I think the trend is that most things banned in the US were previously banned in EU, although not all.  There still isn't agreement on DDT, at least not between scientists and the layman.  A huge amount of the scientific community says it is relatively safe, even the WHO is championing for its use in the fight against Malaria, but the public perception of the chemical is too negative for any real movement.   What kind of movement would there have to be?

What prohibits China and India from producing as much DDT as they want to for application in Africa? [This](http://www.researchgate.net/profile/John_Giesy/publication/260282534_Organochlorine_Pesticides_in_China/links/00b7d5307783a819c4000000.pdf) paper from 2007 says China produced 459,000 metric tons from 1990-2003. India cranks out whatever it wants; the country refuses to sign the Stockholm Convention on POPs.

Resistance to DDT is common in mosquitoes, particularly in Africa and India. There are better options available today. Well both China and India signed and ratified the Stockholm Convention in the early to mid 00s.  But the Stockholm Convention isn't the end all of DDT, they actually allow its use, but in limited amounts.  What the WHO takes issue with is this limit, they have urged the international community to raise the limit to aid in the fight against Malaria.  But I think this probably goes beyond just the Stockholm Convention; I think public perception plays a huge role in it.  

As for resistance and better options; Perhaps, but [WHO's recommendation hits a few points:  1.  It has the longest residual efficiency, thereby requiring less applications than the alternatives.  2.  It's cheap to not only produce but apply (because less applications are required, therefore less labor cost).  and 3.  As recently has 2010, WHO was unable to find any strong evidence linking real world exposure of DDT to negative health effects in humans.](http://whqlibdoc.who.int/hq/2011/WHO_HTM_GMP_2011_eng.pdf)

 DDT is not very toxic to humans.

It was banned in the US for its (supposed) effect on birds.

From the somewhat useful Wikipedia article:

&gt;In the 1970s and 1980s, agricultural use was banned in most developed countries, beginning with Hungary in 1968[41] then in Norway and Sweden in 1970, Germany and the United States in 1972, but not in the United Kingdom until 1984. By 1991 total bans on the use of DDT, including in disease control, were in place in at least 26 countries; for example Cuba in 1970, Singapore in 1984, Chile in 1985 and the Republic of Korea in 1986 It's not highly toxic to mammals, but it does bioaccumulate, and it takes a long time to be eliminated from the body.  It also persists in the environment for years and is highly toxic to fish (LC50 1.5-56 mg/L for 96 hour exposure, depending on species).  
[Source](http://www.pan-uk.org/pestnews/Actives/ddt.htm) Its a great thing that the governments are banning chemicals now, because once TTIP comes into force, all that protection will disappear and we will be in the state as the US, with much higher concentrations of chemicals in food and health products.. and far lower standards. High fructose syrup is heavily regulated in EU and is being seen as an important factor for the obesity epidemic in the US where it is not as regulated at all. Couldn't find as quick a proper article, but here are some sources for more information.

http://www.eufic.org/page/de/page/FAQ/faqid/glucose-fructose-syrup/

http://www.livestrong.com/article/464851-why-is-high-fructose-corn-syrup-banned-in-europe/ The book [Living Downstream](http://www.amazon.com/Living-Downstream-Ecologists-Investigation-Environment/dp/0306818698) deals with this topic extensively. It's so stat packed I can't recall which chapter she deal with this topic. I want to say the 4th or 5th chapter. I'm bad because I didn't retain any of the solid statistics and studies she educates the reader on but it is a very good book to look at for this topic. Would infant mortality count?  As I understand it, the comparative rates of infant mortality differ rather markedly.  The causes of this are quite varied, but would a differing chemical exposure profile help influence this disparity in infant mortality?  (Has anyone even looked at this?) It would be very difficult to isolate a cause to a single permitted chemical even if there were significant differences in disease rates.

In fact, if it were rigorously isolated to a single chemical, it would likely stop being permitted and the point would be moot.

So to some extent the answer is in the question: The EU takes a precautionary approach that bans substances with any hint of danger, and the US (stupidly, in my opinion) waits for people to die in significant numbers and for the cause to be proven before it acts to ban the chemical. [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] Modern metals would make better and stronger swords than they had in medieval times, but it would make little difference in a fight. The sword would last longer before losing its edge, but it wouldn't be some kind of super weapon that could slice through plate armour or cut through blades. 

[This video shows what I mean](https://youtu.be/NF9ylTFbzYc?t=4m26s). He uses a modern high quality steel sword and tries to cut through a cheap knock-off knife. It is incredibly ideal circumstances with the knife braced against a hard surface and a clean 90 degree cut, something that would never happen in real life, yet it still takes a huge amount of force and multiple attempts to cut through. In combat you would likely never have a situation like that, and the force would never be completely transferred into the blade. 

This is especially true when talking about combat in plate armour, because they would very rarely strike with edge of the blade, if at all. It was all about thrusts and grappling with the opponent and they would hold the sword half way down the blade to use as a fast and accurate stabbing weapon to reach between the joints in the armour. You could hit plate armour all day long with a sword and make little more than a dent and some scratches.

While medieval metallurgy wasn't as advanced as modern metallurgy, by the end of the medieval period they had finely tuned the designs of swords to be very practical and good at their job. I doubt modern craftsmen could make anything better since a lot of the skills they had would have been lost so it would mostly come down to guessing and copying old designs. So the only advantage a modern sword would have would be the higher quality steel.

As for many of the advanced materials that are used in cutting tools nowadays, most of them are far too brittle to use as a sword and would shatter or break very quickly, and the ones that wouldn't would have be little improvement over steel. 

TLDR; Modern swords would be more resilient and hold an edge longer, but would make little to no difference in combat. You wouldn't be able to slice through blades and cut through plate armour, and the designs of medieval swords were already very well designed for their purpose and not much could be changed to make them noticeably better. What about the weight of the armour? Could equally protective but lighter armour be constructed?  What'd you want to protect from?

Getting shot at with a bullet proof vest on will still leave one hell of a bruise, even though you don't get shot the round imparts a significant amount of force onto the vest and into your body.

Also medieval armour wasn't that heavy, something like 35 pounds IIRC. 35-40

[Modern armor is just as heavy](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Improved_Outer_Tactical_Vest).  Modern fighting loads are probably heavier overall:  an M4 weighs more than the average longsword and I'm unsure what the weight comparison between a shield and ammunition is but it's about a pound per magazine. Modern armor like kevlar is designed for high speed projectiles like bullets or shrapnel and may not be able to stop a sword or dagger point (highly tapered blades point-on seem to penetrate best).

Medieval armor was usually between 25 and 45 pounds, plus tack on another 20-45 pounds for a shield (full metal shields especially, which is why most were metal plates on wood backing or just wood).

Later era armor hit a max of around 70 pounds (some heavier armor was made for cavalry, but rarely saw use). The French armor at Agincourt was 50-60 pounds and the good quality steel armor could stop longbow shots (in fact, many did not carry shields because the armor was so good). The poorer quality stuff (wrought iron) was not as effective. What really did the French in, though, was crossing a muddy field with visors down (impeding easy breathing) in heavy armor and high heat. Many arrived so exhausted they could "scarcely lift their weapons" and could easily be knocked down, and falling face first in the mud likely meant suffocation as other soldiers pressed over the fallen one. Generally a full set of platemail weighed about as much as a modern Infantryman's carrier rig.  &gt; Getting shot at with a bullet proof vest on will still leave one hell of a bruise

I've always wondered why that is. It seems like getting shot while wearing a bullet proof vest deals much more damage than, say, being punched really hard in the chest, but since the recoil momentum of the gun is equal to the momentum of the bullet, and we control that recoil momentum pretty easily with our arms, it seems to me that we should be able to create a similar (if not greater) impact with a punch. Aside from the other responses, also keep in mind that modern "lightweight" armor generally aims to defend against bullets, for obvious reasons. The mechanism for protecting against a gunshot, though, is very different from protecting against a sword strike. The former is essentially many layers of cloth (Kevlar) absorbing blunt force concentrated on a small area afaik, whereas the latter needs to stop a cutting strike.

For instance, a knife can cut through a bulletproof vest pretty easily. Why wouldn't knights in plate armor simply switch to knives or daggers when faced with an opponent with plate armor instead of gripping the sword's blade?  Ever hit two metal objects together? I'm betting even in armor, it's a lot easier to be incapacitated with a broadsword than a dagger.  True, I was thinking more of one of them closing the gap quickly since he knows a hit or 2 probably won't hurt him, then using the dagger to get between the plates easier One word: chainmail. Medieval armor was plate armor but usually the fighters wore chainmail underneath for the exact purpose you describe, countering knives and glancing blows that make it past a gap in the armor. Well at this point, why use a sword at all? Why not give everyone a mace or hammer? Were they considered barbaric or something?  Actually, maces, hammers, axes, and spears were extremely common, either by themselves or as a secondary weapon carried in addition to a sword. Also, certain types of swords were actually pretty good against armor, if you used the correct techniques such as various stabs, halfswording, and murderstrikes.

This video shows some of the techniques used to defeat armored opponents: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vwuQPfvSSlo&amp;ab_channel=Skallagrim Ooh, what's a murderstrike?! It's where you grab the sword by the blade and bash somebody in the face with the pommel.  Not only is it the metallest technique, it has the metallest name too. While that is insanely badass, wouldn't carrying a mace around with the sword just be more practical? Had to log in to say that doing this exact thing, while playing the witcher TWO, was of the most statisfying video game moments ever.  I had no idea it was an actual thing. The guy in the video actually calls it the murderstroke, which I think sounds even cooler, but I digress. Basically the murderstrike/stroke is a tactic employed by swordsman using the technique known as half-swording. Half-swording is where the blade is gripped using your hands in order to change the way the sword is used or to gain more control over the point/tip of the sword. When using half-swording to better control the point of the sword, you are essentially turning the sword into more of a dagger with the purpose or intent of finding and exploiting the gaps in armor to deliver a more lethal blow. Now to get to the Murderstroke, again the method of half-swording is employed but this time instead of gripping the handle with one hand and the blade with another, you would use both hands to grip the blade. In gripping the blade like this you are able to use the sword more like a mace or hammer and strike your opponent. The strike would be focused onto the pommel (end nub) or guard (the piece that protects the hand(s) holding the sword) and would essentially allow a fighter to deliver a more advantageous blow to an enemy wearing armor. Since cutting heavy armor would not get much done, a concussive blow from the pommel or guard may stun or even kill your opponent and as such was a common tactic taught to swordfighters. 

TL;DR- the murderstroke/strike is when you hold the blade of the sword and use the pommel or guard to beat the ever loving shit out of your opponent...or at least that's what the guy in the video says. In the medieval sources (the majority is german), its called ["Mordsschlag"](http://www.hammaborg.de/bilder/transkriptionen/phm_dresden_2/08_harnisch/07.jpg). Or if the cross guard is pointy enough, it turns your sword into a pickaxe  Skallagrim is fantastic. I don't own any weapons at all and I still love his videos. He's just so open and frank about what he knows and doesn't know, and his demonstrations are eminently practical. Quite famously, a bunch of middle-class Belgians beat the ever-loving piss out of a bunch of French Knights at the Battle Of The Golden Spurs in 1302, primarily armed with an exceedingly simple, yet effective, knight-busting weapon: the *goedendag*...because legend has it that as you caved in some French nobleman's skull with it you said "Good morning", as the Flemish have a pretty wicked sense of humour.*

In the simplest terms, the goedendag is a largish baseball bat with a heavy metal ferrule on the striking end (to act as a mace) and out of that a sharp spike (to act as a very short thrusting spear/piercing dagger). 

As you can imagine, incredibly cheap to manufacturer, easy to use, and incredibly easy to manufacture en masse. You took a heavy piece of hardwood, a pound or two of simply-shaped and sharpened steel, brought them together, and bam. Knight-killer. You can dent armour and transmit brute blunt force with the club, and winkle through gaps and mail with the point. Because they're so cheap and easy to make, you can make *thousands* quickly. Because they're so easy to use, you can train a bunch of blokes who have day jobs to use them, and use them well, very quickly and easily. 

There's plenty of other reasons that the Belgiums won that battle (good preparation, picking the field, and a well-trained militia), but the goedendag was a definite part. 

More importantly, it was a pivotal moment in history, one that's sadly forgotten. Agincourt and Crecy get credit as being where "knights were dethroned", but I'd reckon Golden Spurs was a lot more important - not just militarily, but socially and politically.

*Ok, so the goedendag naming story is apocryphal, but it's a good one. But that's what the weapon's called today. You beat me to it. By the time plate armor came around most combat between knights would have been with  blunt instruments. A good smack on the head with a warhammer would do the trick even if you did have a helmet on. Even a heavy axe would break limbs if you were wearing plate armor. The sword became a secondary weapon. However most opponents still wouldn't have plate armour at which point a sword is more useful. Maces and hammers were commonly used Medieval weapons iirc because they could break through plate armor. However the economics and needs of war probably necessitated the use of swords and other light weapons.

Armies need a mix of weapons, even now. You don't just hand everyone a bazooka and a sniper rifle because they easily deal with common armor. Even if you don't break through the armor with your mace or hammer, it would cause extreme denting, especially on the chestplate.  If your opponent's fancy armor suddenly gets collapsed and he can't get a full breath in, you've got a significant advantage.

Also, even through a helmet, a solid strike to the head could kill, or at least cause concussion and disorientation. Poor choice of words on my part. By "break through" I should have said "effective against", for pretty much the reasons you describe. [deleted] Swords were insanely expensive compared to just about every other melee weapon.

 Swords were incredibly versatile,,and most of the people you'd be fighting wouldn't have plate armor.  You are correct. The costs of labor for swords eclipsed that of blunt weapons. Important to know plate armor and chainmail were also insanely expensive. A fully armored knight was more akin to a tank than a soldier in terms of cost investment.

&gt;Maces, being simple to make, cheap, and straightforward in application, were quite common weapons.

https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mace_(club) That seems really unfortunate for any fully armored knights, the weapon they're most vulnerable to also happens to be one of the more common weapons. Makes me wonder how effective knights really were. That may be true for a simple club, but things like war hammers and flanged maces were weapons of the rich. The poor were much more likely to own some for m of sword then a specialized mace. 

https://youtu.be/s9SvgWJNSd8?t=8m6s

New, high quality swords could be very expensive, but there were many many second hand and cheap swords that could be bought. For so little  that the lowest paid soldier could buy 3 cheap ones a  day on their wages. 

https://youtu.be/s9SvgWJNSd8?t=1m37s

 [deleted] come the high medieval period, swords were not that expensive. There were many second hand ones from the plague and wars as well. Smithing became better as well. Depends on what time period, but there is truth to this for certain centuries.  [deleted] Once plate armor became widespread those weapons did indeed gain in popularity, however, swords remained an important status symbol and functioned as a useful sidearm.

Additionally techniques for sword combat began to reflect armor usage, you worked to trip/disable/stun your opponent and then finished him off once he was down, often with a [rondel dagger]( http://pics.myarmoury.com/rondel_daggers01_s.jpg) which was a specialized dagger to ****pierce gaps in armor. Because heavy things are heavy things in the end.

There is still an awful lot of force from a big heavy blade striking plate.  Big heavy blades also cut through the (much, much, more common) peasant conscripts extremely well.  

In some cases it became common to grip a sword by the blade and use the cross guard as a bludgeon.  Effective enough.  Something like a maul or warhammer might be *more* effective, but only because it is heavier and at the end of the day you've got to lug that big bastard around (swords can also be easily sheathed, which is another point in their favor when you consider marching around with the damn thing).

Perhaps the real reason to use a blade was because it was a blade.  Think about what goes into the construction of other weapons.  Heavy bits of metal with a wooden shaft.  Polearms, axes, and blunt weapons all worked out about the same (most polearms can trace their design back to improvised farming implements).  A blade is almost entirely metal and takes a *lot* of work to make.  A good blade is essentially a badge of your station in life.  Having a sword meant you could *afford* a sword.  It meant you could afford an object that was solely used for killing people.  It meant you were *someone.*

Ultimately blades were a problem against people in plate armor, but why kill them?    If someone can afford heavy armor, chances are they're someone important and can be used as political leverage (or at least for ransom).  At the *very* least they are a professional man at arms and can likely be persuaded to join your cause.  Would be a complete waste to kill someone in armor most of the time. Forgive me but towards the end you started to sound very speculative. Do you have any sources to back your claims up?  It's not really. You have to remember that knights are not government troops. They're nobles and other wealthy men going to war for personal profit.

In a medieval battle, the knights go to war in hopes of capturing other nobles in combat for ransom or blackmail. There was a lot of money in that and while it didn't mean people held back in battle it did mean it's quite a waste to just kill an opposing knight when you could have captured him.

During the famous battle of Azincourt this comes into play in several notable ways. During this battle a large force of French knights faced an English force with much fewer knights.

Before the battle, the English king Henry actually states during his speech that he'd rather die in the battle than be ransomed. Something opinions in his army were divided on. The men-at-arms were high ranking enough to be able to expect ransoming while the lowborn archers could only expect to be put to death if captured.

More to the point, during this extraordinary battle (really, [read the wiki article](https://en.wikipedia.org/?title=Battle_of_Agincourt)) the French knights have a truly disastrous time with their cavalry charge as they get stuck in the mud and die in droves.

The English capture a great number of high value French prisoners. People who would stay pretty calm since they fully expected to be ransomed and return home. The situation was so unusual that the French prisoners actually outnumbered their captors.

Which turned into a problem when it appeared that fresh French foot soldiers were moving in for an attack on the battered English position. At this point king Henry ordered his troops to start executing the French prisoners, fearing the possibility of being caught between the advancing French army and rioting prisoners.

Henry's knights refused this distasteful duty but his commoners started killing prisoners until the horrified French army backed away. First thing I found. http://www.bbc.com/news/education-21168437

It's an incredibly well documented phenomenon and I'm sure you could find more directly relevant information if you felt like it./ Commonly asked question. The vast majority of soldiers did not wear the sort of armour that would make a sword useless. In the 14-15th century, swords were also secondary weapon after poleaxes while unmounted. Swords were also useful in wrestling an opponent to the ground, when the one who has the upper hand can stab through the helmet's visor with a dagger. Also, swords can be used as a mace (see mordhau). Chainmail doesn't actually defend against thrust all that much, and not at all against points meant solely for thrusting, like rondell daggers and longsword points. Chainmail at the joints is only supposed to protect from cuts that find their way to them, not when grappling with an enemy that has a thrusting knife. Wrong. Nobody wears full maille underneath fullplate. That practice is largely a transitional era artifact. Plate weighs 60lb by itself, a maille shirt weighs as much as 30 lbs, a full hauberk can weigh nearly as much as plate. Nobody in their right minds would 'wear' 'chainmail'. Most remnant armors have small strips of maille pointed to the aketon or arming jacket. These only cover the gaps. There is no overlap between plate and maille.  Yeah, I fight in the SCA and the thought of wearing Chain and Plate together is ludicrous.  I would like to have this whole thread gone over by AskHistory. [deleted] Question though: Did they use riveted mail?  

I find a lot of "scientific experiments" use butted mail like some fools. In grappling they often would. But on a battlefield, where you will have to defend yourself from someone else after you kill the guy you are currently fighting, dropping your sword and engaging with a dagger is a decision not to be undertaken lightly. There are certainly advantages, especially in the grapple, but there are costs as well. I can quickly think of 3 big reasons swords would be better:

  1: Most people you fight won't be in full plate armour. Plate was expensive and most people couldn't afford it, or might not have a full set, and against one of these people the additional length of a sword would be very useful.

   2: You can generate more power with a sword held in a half-sword grip than you can with a knife. After you get the point between the cracks in your opponent's armour, you still have to push through thick cloth while your blade is likely pinched between the plates. Being able to apply more force would make this much easier.

   3: A sword can be used defensively. Bludgeoning weapons were the main weapon against armoured opponents. A sword can block much more effectively than a knife. (Of course, a shield is even better, but that is beside the point.)

   Bonus: There was a technique (I'm not counting it because I honestly don't know how often it was actually used) in which the sword was reversed and held by the blade. The guard and pommel were then used to bludgeon an armoured opponent. This is obviously not an option with a knife. They did. They typically used daggers design for thrusting so they could penetrate armor better or slip between plate joints. Grappling and knife fighting were both vital combat skills. Daggars used were like the rondel. 

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rondel_dagger The easier way is to cause blunt trauma to crush the plate and the chainmail. Thus flails, maces, war hammers, and the likes were invented. First of all they often times did carry a long narrow dagger that was designed to fit between the gaps between plates of armor. Additionally, they would also sometimes hold the sword with one hand on the handle and one holding the blade and then try to jam it in between gaps in the armor. Alternatively they would grab the sword by the blade and strike with the crossguard like a pick.

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vwuQPfvSSlo&amp;ab_channel=Skallagrim I would imagine because the sword's blade is already there and ready, you just grab the blade near the end and stab that badboy into a hole in the armor.

For anyone curious about halfswording or thinking it would be impractical to grip the blade of a sword, [Skallagrim](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UC3WIohkLkH4GFoMrrWVZZFA) on youtube did an excellent [demonstration of halfswording](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vwuQPfvSSlo) with a very real, very sharp sword. Why use a small knife when you could use something like an estoc?

If your opponent as a small knife, and you have a 5 foot long metal stabbing implement, then you have something of an advantage. I also don't understand why they wouldn't make some sort of handle midway through the blade or something, or why use a sword at all when you are going to be using it in that manner.  My guess is that they wouldn't always be fighting heavily armoured opponents, so having a piece of wood in the middle would be a disadvantage in all other situations. Also, combat capable swords are very flexible, so you'd lose total flex capability by making the blade two pieces, not to mention increasing complexity.

They'd also be wearing gauntlets and chain mail that would protect their hands perfectly fine when grasping a sword mid blade. A sword might not be great against an armored knight, but it's great against all those peasant men-at-arms in boiled leather. Besides, if you do run into a knight in armor, you can always hold your sword by the blade and beat him with the grippy end. A common feature of bigger swords was a dull section near the bottom of the blade that usually had smaller guards (those little hooks on the blade) for half-swording.  That way you can use a five foot sword to swing and thrash dudes when you want and you're able to choke up and use the thing as a short spear and grappling aid in close quarters or when there's an opponent in plate. [They did](http://static3.wikia.nocookie.net/__cb20100822034609/deadliestfiction/images/c/ca/Zweihander.jpg)

That's a *fairly* common design for larger two handed swords.  The leather bit can be gripped for a more effective stab.

For every heavily armored opponent on the battlefield there dozens of conscripted forces with little to no armor.  Arm yourself to take *those* guys out because there's more of them.

Don't even have to kill a Knight.  I'm not sure why everyone is so focused on killing.

If someone can afford *heavy* armor, then they're *somebody.*  They can be used for political leverage, ransom, or persuaded to join your cause.  Why kill them?  Would be a huge waste. Pretty much unnecessary. A tight grip will prevent cutting, especially in gauntlets. Plus the integrity issues. Further, longswords were properly thought of as sidearms, and thus as something to carry in civilian life as well, so having the grip would wreck that (half-swording is rarely advantages against an unarmored foe, because it cuts your reach dramatically).

Lastly, they often would use other primary weapons, such as the halberd or pole-axe, or the estoc which is a kind of sword purpose built for fighting plate armor. Better versatility.  If you have the choice between a sword that can also be used as a knife, or having to switch between a longer weapon and a knife, its far faster to just use the sword as a knife.  That way you can step back and parry enemy attacks effectively without having to fumble for a different weapon, or quickly close the difference with the opponent and stab him.  Using the sword over the knife also gives you more force with the blow, since the hand holding the hilt can really drive home an impact without changing the trajectory of the blade.

Also note that medieval knights did carry [specialized daggers](https://en.wikipedia.org/?title=Dagger#/media/File:De_Fechtbuch_Talhoffer_169.jpg) around and would use them if the opportunity presented itself.  In a fight its all about having multiple options available, and knowing when to use them.  Swords could also be used as a hammer in a pinch too, just grip the blade with both hands and bludgeon the opponent with the pommel. If you make a handle, you will lose a portion of the blade, which could otherwise be used to cut. Also even the most sharp of the edges will cut only if you move it along the thing you're cutting. If the hand holds the blade firmly and doesn't slip there isn't even [a need for gauntlets.](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vwuQPfvSSlo)  

Holding the sword that way turns it into a big lever, very useful against opponent in heavy armor. It's probably faster that way. Also you don't have to drop your sword in case you need it later like if your opponent backs off.  Or you become engaged with a different opponent.  Sword+shield+armor is a really good setup for dealing with a wide variety of enemies - it may not kill the quickest but it should keep you alive longer, which arguably is the most important thing.   They fought in ranks... One guy with a bow, another with a sword, another with an axe.  Redundant numbers of each so that as you lose people, you can maintain the front line with the desired variety of weaponry.

This guy explains it better than I:

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TniDOODI28g What about weight? Could we not make a weapon of similar strength lighter making it more feasible to wield a longer blade with a shield for better reach. [deleted] Aren't people today generally bigger than people back then though? Wouldn't we be at least able to wield a 7 lb sword the same way guys did 5 lbs back in the day? The main reason people today *might* be bigger today would be mostly due to diet (I don't know for sure if it's true, I've heard it is a myth).  Back then, if you could afford a sword, you could afford enough food to get strong.  And most of the knights would have been fairly strong, partly due to food, partly due to the fact that they would have trained a lot to use the sword properly.  

However, there were (and are), huge people sometimes.  Look at Hafthor Bjornsson (who plays The Mountain in Game of Thrones).  He would probably be fine with a 10-12 lb sword, or even up to 20 maybe.  For a short while anyway.  The heavier a sword gets, the harder it is to stop mid-swing.  If you over swing, the other person could simply dodge and then take your leg or arm after you're thrown off balance.  Instead, a lighter sword (yes maybe in the 7-10 pound range, properly sized for a huge person) would be better.  He could stop it faster if necessary, and his huge strength would still allow him to overpower an opponent. 

A heavier sword wouldn't necessarily help you, and it could hinder you in the long term.

Consider this: if you have a 5 lb weight around, or a somewhat heavy rock, try holding it straight out in front of you.  My guess is you won't be able to hold it out there for more than a few minutes.  Now, try picking up a broom, or a 3-4 foot branch.  try holding that parallel to the ground, straight out in front of you.  If you were holding it in the middle, try moving your hand close to one side.  The extra torque on your wrist would be quite noticeable at this point.  Your arms will get tired pretty quickly, and if you want, try swinging the branch/broom a bit. (don't break anything)

Even if it's very light, your arms will start to tire.  Even someone who has trained for most of their life will eventually start to get tired when swordfighting.  

Many battles back then could last hours, and even if you weren't constantly on the front lines for longer than 10-15 minutes, you would tire out very quickly.  

Adding a few pounds may not seem like a lot, but it could make a huge difference overall.   on average slightly taller (but not as much as you might think) but probably not really bigger.  Most of us don't spend our lives swinging swords http://www.economist.com/node/17722650

 Counterpoint: the people who are wearing plate and wielding swords back then we're much healthier/fitter than the average. I would think they'd be less malnourished, ergo the difference would be less pronounced.

Plus I imagine Knights had much more physical training and for longer than our soldiers today.  Ok, so I'm assuming some stuff for my question:  
1. We are fighting a medieval knight using medieval weapons. The only difference between our possible weapon set and the knight's is our access to modern metallurgy and tool making.  
2. Both physically and in skill level, we are approximately equal to our foe. 

Now, this being said, how much could we gain from, for example, a longsword of equal length but less weight compared to our opponent? How about the decreased armor weight and improved integrity (I imagine our ability to bind the armor together has also improved)? Would it become considerably easier to carry a secondary weapon (a short mace, for example)?

Also, since we're at it, are there any benefits of modern metalworking that could apply to historical archers? He doesn't even cut through the blade - he breaks it with a pommel strike.  I have to wonder how effective a war maul with a giant spring-loaded center punch in it would be for an armor piercing weapon, after reading your explanation. Sort of connect with the hammer, driving the punch in... ...I get the feeling a hammer with a good ol' steel spike on it would be equally effective, and less in need of reloading. The force requires to fire the spike would also act backwards on the hammer. So you would have to be incredibly strong to hold it in place while it punched through the armor. incredibly is relative. you would need a very thin spike, that much is true, but there are many different types of recoil management that you could use I've always wondered what the purpose or function of that line down the middle of a sword is for. The sword the guy uses in that video has one too, would you happen to know what that's for? https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fuller_(weapon)

Put simply, it helps to cut down on the weight of the sword while losing none of its structural strength, similar to steel I-beams used in construction.  What about a sword breaker type thing? Edge on one side, notches on the other. I feel a more durable sword meant to break other swords would be the way to go since that's the only advantage youd have. Breaking a sword is very difficult to do in the first place, and sword breakers were probably intended to [catch the sword, not break it](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Parrying_dagger#Sword-breakers).  At that point material science doesn't matter because a human simply can't generate enough force to break a sword in a combat situation in the first place. what about attaching some sort battery system to shock/stun opponent occasionally. that'd be a pretty good edge  I very highly recommend Skallagrim (the channel you linked) for learning all about swords. He is an excellent collector with a very extensive knowledge and library of videos. This deals with the OP's question about weapons.

But I'm wondering if we'd be able to create better armor. You mention going for the joints, which are not covered by plate. Modern materials could help protect these areas. Perhaps kevlar would be a good starting point? The biggest benefits of modern technology would probably only be available after you move away from a medieval design such as a solid metal blade.  A composite blade might well prove lighter and more flexible than a metal blade.  Most swords weren't all that heavy to begin with though.  Also, even with a lighter, more flexible, sharper blade, skill is going to be pretty important.  Such a sword would give it's wielder an edge, but probably not one sufficient to overcome a lifetime of training, as many medieval combatants would have had.  

One thing you're overlooking though is shields.  RPG's may portray them as defensive items, but shields were historically wielded in a variety of highly offensive ways. They really are weapons in the truest sense of the word.  Modern materials could likely do far more for shields than they could for swords.  A shield built with modern materials could be substantially lighter and tuned to be rigid when striking yet cushioning when struck, making them better at both giving blows and blocking them.  You could make them transparent, which would give the wielder better awareness of his opponent.  You might also make them permeable to air to reduce wind resistance to make them faster to move.  A modern shield might offer a much bigger edge than a modern sword.  

All that being said, it would take less expertise, effort, and work to produce a crude gun from scratch, which would actually *be* the superweapon you're after.  There's a reason why guns took over! But we do have modern shields like ballistic shields and riot shields. Would they be able to stand up to medieval weapons? A ballistic shield would. a riot shield. probably not for long, but neither did a wooden shield either.
making a shield with modern materials would probably be a nice upgrade. Yup, simply having transparent shields would probably be an enourmous advantage. I mean imagine a modern sniper against a small medieval army. Put a stone roof over his head to block arrows and he'd basically both be invincible and able to kill anyone at any distance by the standards of the time. Guns are really OP. Snipers aren't really designed to handle large forces. They're precision units meant for scouting and removing specific threats from a zone so that a larger friendly force doesn't have to. They're not gods of war that video games make them out to be.

If you really want one-man overpoweredness, get a mortar and an automatic weapon, maybe some grenades. Large groups of standing armies in bright colored clothing against artillery and grenades? It'd be the French front of WWI all over again. It's not about killing an entire army, it's about routing an entire army. If they can't even see the man killing them they won't stick around very long. I mean it'd basically look like people's heads are exploding for no reason even with armor. That's some black magic most armies of the time would not want to deal with. Surely you'd want something really showy like a flamethrower. A little bit of propaganda and a costume would go a long way to make people believe they are fighting an unstoppable dragon and route  Just integrate a taser into a sword so that making contact with your opponent's armor would incapacitate him. I would think that armour of the time(being metal) would render a taser ineffective. Electric current follows the path of least resistance, and a metal plate or mesh is a helluva lot more conductive than human skin/flesh. 

If you were to a guy in plate mail with a taser, chances are that he would not even feel it.  If they already know where he is and can thus shoot arrows at him, then what's stopping a charge of horsemen?  He'd need a lot of stones around him. Archers could be very accurate, and while the sniper would definitely have the advantage, enough archers could land a shot through the hole is gun is resting through easily enough. With even a mid-quality modern rifle they wouldn't even be close to being in range.  With enough archers advancing simultaneously the sniper couldn't kill them faster than they close, eventually the archers would get in range and be able to kill the sniper. I believe there are a few limited examples of composite sword design from back in the day too. I remember reading about a sword that had a braided flexible core with a harder steel encasing around it. They found out when they xrayed the sword. It would have of course probably been some super rich noblemans sword and likely never seen much if any real use. Depends what you mean.

My understanding is that in real battles, swords were never able to actually cut through plate armor of the late medieval era. In battle against an armored opponent, you would try to use a more concussive weapon such as a mace, axe or war hammer, that would be capable of delivering substantial force even through plate armor and possibly deforming the armor under the point of impact. If a sword was all you had available, you'd try to poke it between the armor plates where hopefully there's a lot less metal between the sword point and your opponent's skin.

Modern metallurgy is unlikely to change this. The main advantage of a sword made with modern alloys over an equivalent medieval sword is that, in a sword-on-sword fight where the swords are being used to block each other, the medieval one is much more likely to break sooner (assuming they're wielded with equal skill). However, as far as actually slicing through plate armor is concerned, the modern sword still won't be effective. Given that the usual method of defeating armor was applying a heavy object with a small contact patch, can we do that better? 

Specifically, could we use a dense metal (steel jacketed uranium?) more optimally concentrate mass further out on something like a mace, or get a smaller contact patch without losing significant strength?  Well you could just use a sniper rifle that definitely focuses a lot of force in a small area. Well yes, but a mace or similarly period appropriate weapon is at least close to the original question.  So like a small rocket propelled mace or sword? Would that count? Now we're getting into the realm of magitech, specifically Mahou Shoujo Lyrical Nanoha. And why not use some super-strong but lightweight material to make the handle, so that you can swing the mace faster without getting as tired. The problem is that the total energy of that heavy object is always going to be intrinsically linked to the person wielding the sword.  Medieval long swords usually only weighted about 5 pounds, and that for a good reason: F=M*A.  Essentially, any increase in mass decreases the rate that you can accelerate the sword.  So after a certain point, heaviness becomes useless because the swing up time required to hurt someone is too long for it to be a useful combat weapon. Angular momentum changes depending on the distribution of weight though. A rod of even density will have lower angular momentum than one with all the weight at the end, given the same rotational speed. So the question becomes how much you can minimize speed losses while shifting the center of gravity out. 

Given modern materials though, we can probably beat a rod of static length with something that looks like an extendable baton. 
 What about a modern estoc?

I imagine we could probably make something that is lighter, stiffer, and maybe with a finer point if that really matters.

So instead of looking for a better slicing tool, what about a better huge stabbing tool? Then you'd have to pick a steel that would allow a lighter, stiffer blade that isn't brittle and that holds a fine cutting edge.  What you're describing sounds a bit more like a short rapier than a longsword, you give up a lot of distance.   Estoc's do not cut.

They are only lethal on a thrust.

So we only need stiff, light, and preferably not brittle, but holding a cutting edge is not at all needed. AlMg3 with an inset TiC tip? Stabbing would be more effective than slicing, but you'd probably have to hit at a very steep angle (close to perpendicular to the armor surface), which in the heat of combat is more a matter of luck than weapon quality. Very little.  Sword tech was excellent at its peak, and saw plenty of production.  However, there were still plenty of armies which lost in part due to problems arming themselves with effective equipment.

There's not much better you could do.  A sword could already cut an arm badly on light hit.  Ceramic or whatever is no more likely to get through steel plate or chainmail.

In fact, swords were NOT the primary weapon in most of history.  Polearms were, and bows.  Polearms could pack together and make a deep barrier you just couldn't get through.  Swords need space to swing.

Swords were generally ineffective against plate or chain.  In fact, most armor was padded cloth/canvas that did a lot to stop a sword.  Swords with a sharp edge would more likely have the edge damaged on a plate impact rather than penetrating the plate. 

A polearm, with shaft, was relatively massive.  It could separate chainmail links or break your bones through unbroken chainmail.  On a thrust, it could travel up one steel plate until it got to a joint and pushed under the next overlapping plate.  What's underneath could be a padded gambeson or a gambeson over chainmail, which it could injure through.

One thing that WOULD be improved would be arrowheads.  Most weren't hardened steel and probably not effective at penetrating plate.  Also most weren't broadheads, broadheads cost too much to mass-mfg and were ineffective on chainmail, probably heavy cloth/canvas too.  And it was hard to carry a LOT of the shafts due to head width.    Instead they were narrow steel "bodkin points" which handily penetrated chain and cloth but, like I say, not super-effective on plate and also didn't cause really serious injury for immediate stopping power.  About like getting stabbed with a pencil.   Hardened steel points could penetrate plate better, and might be made wider to cause more dire injury.

The more interesting question- could modern materials and engineering make SUPERARMOR??

Yes, actually.  I think so.  Many plastics are more effective than steel at stopping these impacts.  Ballistic nylon is radically better at stopping blades from cutting, as would stainless mesh chainmail.

One primary limitation was what would be practical to both make and wear and still fight.  Modern 3D CAD design would go a long way to making effective, form-fitting, practical designs- especially covering the joints.  Making the armor bulky enough to absorb huge impacts without having the impact carry far enough to break bones.

Helmets... that was sort of a limiting factor.  Wearing steel plates all over was NOT as heavy as you probably think.  But an effective steel helm was hot, bulky, very restrictive for vision/breathing, and slowed you down overall.  Also a concussion through those things would take you down easier than trying to strike through plate or chain.

If you don't have an effective helm, going with super-effective plate over, say, chainmail isn't all that beneficial.  In the thick of things they'll just strike for your head regardless of how much armor you have elsewhere.

Modern football helmet would probably be super-effective in medieval combat.  Generally speaking you can't knife through the plastic shell, a sword won't do much better.  An axe would smash through it, but those are relatively slow weapons and due to the shape, most impacts would glance off.  The grille protects the lower face ok without impairing breathing or vision much.  You'd probably add a solid nosebridge to the design, but it's mostly "there". I disagree on the unmodified football helmet proposal -- even if it's mostly going to protect against knives/swords, it'll get pretty badly beaten up quite quickly.  Adding a (relatively thin) steel layer to the outside shell will drastically improve your longevity and make those blows do actually nothing rather than mostly nothing. Football helmets don't do much to protect against concussions either.  Granted they're better than a steel helmet, but a bicycle or motorcycle helmet is better protection against concussions than a football helmet. A modern hockey helmet? Full face mesh one?? Modernized spear-thrower type weapons like atlatl could be really effective.  Aztec atlatl was able to penetrate Spanish metal plate armor. 

 The thing is, while many modern alloys are superior, for a sword you dont WANT super hard blades. Im a knife maker, and the most popular knife making steel today is 1084. Its pretty much nothing but iron, .84 percent carbon and a touch of manganese. Its one of the most common steels in swords and knives made by craftsman today, and its pretty much identical to a medieval period steel.  Yup.  Harder blades tend to chip... and against strikes on other weapons or steel armor will just shatter.  A spring temper may be a much better choice.  Especially for the armor itself. You people have no imagination.

Thin gas powered chainsaw sword with diamond blades = wrecked medieval knights

Industrial strength drill latched onto the tip of a longsword/polearm/spear = wrecked medieval knights

Engines strapped to flail so that they rotate at 300 rpm's and turn any knights they come across into mush. =wrecked medieval knights. 

Bangstick attached to tip of a sword (https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Powerhead)  =wrecked medieval knights. 

A "sword" is open to interpretation.  I agree with the sentiment. Does seem hard to figure if these are practical. First things I thought of. Glad to see someone in here with an imagination. I actually work in an auxiliary role for a large metallurgical research program. The really frustrating thing is that over the years I've talked to all these graduate students, researchers and professors there about how cool it would be for them to have some kind of black/sword-smithing club to apply all that institutional knowledge in a fun and creative way. But have any of them ever made so much as a sheath knife? Nope. 

Why? 

Access to the world's full range of metallurgical materials and fantastically accurate and powerful forging tools? Sure. Knowledge about alloy design and microstructure control? Absolutely. The technology and knowledge needed to perform impossibly precise heat-treatments for annealing/tempering? No problem. Machine tools for sharpening and polishing that would send blacksmith hobbists into bleak bouts of depression? Scattered randomly about. But the creative vision and sense of fun and adventure to use all those things in a non-academic way? Absolutely lacking. FML. Talking about things is easy. Actually doing them is time consuming and expensive. I have machined a lot of steel and it is common to severely underestimate the time it takes to fabricate the simplest of objects. It often takes multiple attempts to produce the desired result. Days of labour. Mass production exists for a reason. Permission and/or funding to use the equipment and materials for sword-making *might* be a little harder to come by. But the thing is I've talked to the dean of the graduate school about this. *He* was the one person most excited about it. He was the guy who happily chatted away regarding the history of metallurgy and the historical technology that allowed smiths to make higher quality products.
 It's not that - the universities I've attended usually have systems where you'd need to input a billing code in order to use the equipment.  Sometimes it was a super-formal setup where the machine would be locked out until you entered a valid code, and sometimes it was just vaguely kept track of between a few research groups ... but at the end of the day, someone's grant was paying for the equipment usage.  No grant?  Sorry!
  
And *then* they let the Health &amp; Safety people in to play.... Actually yeah if the dean digged it and inverted was pursuing his/her masters they might be able to do a thesis about it and make a crazy sword. Because everyone in an engineering program is already killing themselves with their workload.  Also, depending on your institution, it can be pulling teeth to actually get access to the machine shops. Yup. There are a thousand and one projects i would love to work on in the little free time I have if they would only allow me to get within 5 feet of a lathe or CNC machine. Or even give me access to a 3-D printer. Yet I know several high schools that let kids use band-saws and welding torches without any formal training. I feel sorry for you. At my university there are three 3D printers scattered around for student use, not to mention the plasma cutter and laser engraver. Just used the laser the other day to make a few chessboards for my apartment. My highschool had a cnc machine,  and a mini wind tunnel. And that was more than a decade ago. Sign up for your local TechShop or DIY maker lab. They have then in most cities. This is true. In my undergrad in mechanical engineering, I had no time for "cool projects".

Let me introduce you to the wonders of grad school. You know how undergrad was *supposed* to be so much "better than high school" because now you choose the classes you want to take? It really wasn't as I slogged my way through thermo and fluids, etc. Grad school is finally that. Last quarter, I built a wirelessly controlled hovercraft for one project, and a 6' tall wood/metal longbow for another. I also got into basic blacksmithing, which is obscenely fun.

I didn't sleep, but it was great. If it makes you feel any better, TMS had a blacksmithing competition at their conference this year. Not a metallurgist, but I used to make all kinds of hobby electronics. Then I got hired to make electronics.

I still enjoy making electronics, but when I come home I've just spent 8 hours doing it, so I stopped making hobby electronics on my own.

If that, I don't know, helps explain it a little. I do all sorts of hobby stuff, just not electronics anymore. I wonder if it's that the people with creative vision and sense of fun just don't have the money to fund things. A friend of mine is doing his PhD in metallurgical research (I think), and he has a side business making knives. He tries to apply all of the most modern techniques and engineering to his creations, and they are pretty cool--massively over-engineered :). I can PM you a link if you are interested in checking them out. Why on earth wouldn't you just include a link in your post? Sorry, I didn't want to advertise. I'll be happy to post the info here as well as respond to PMs. He's actually in the middle of doing a complete re-launch with a new website and everything, so the sites below are still having content added to them. However, if you'd like to know more specifics about the materials he uses or his processes, I'm sure he'd be happy to respond to any emails. 

I was over at his workshop the other day watching him work, and it's pretty incredible the amount of detail that goes into each knife. He's about to ramp up production this fall, so the number of knives he can make per month will go up.

[Some images I pulled from the site](http://imgur.com/a/navUy)

[Here's the old site](http://schoopknives.com/)

[And here's the WIP new one](http://sct.circumference.co/) CutCo? Just imagine lol... Please send me a PM with the info as it sounds like good reading at the very least. Is there such a thing as knife porn? I'd pitch it as an outreach program to grad students and professors. They can use that on their grant applications. Grants are a typical source of funding for research in academia and many grant applications these days require an outreach program. Now, that is a great idea, especially if they pitch it as being relevant to Korean history...

Seriously, they could probably get all kinds of financial support if they were willing to wear traditional clothing while providing field trips to middle schoolers.
 I wrote my master's thesis on the Synthesis and characterization of tungsten carbide. Tungsten is really expensive and limited in supply. But yeah, you could probably make cemented tungsten carbide and grind it with diamonds, or even braze it with diamonds along the edge. 

Cemented tungsten carbide is the go-to ceramic for rock drilling and mining application. Extremely hard and with a very high fracture toughness. It's also very heavy! Around 20 g/cm3. Steel is still the best blade material.  Taking toughness and edge holding capabilities into consideration.  But steel technology is very advanced now.  As far as I know the most advanced cutlery steels today utilize the CPM process (crucible powdered metallurgy).  Most steel is ingot steel, which compared to cpm steel is less homogeneous and therefore not as tough/ less capable of utilizing the elemental makeup of the alloy.  Also the cpm process creates a finer crystalline structure.  Even with all that, steel is steel, and it would require a great amount of force to shear steel armor no matter what your blade is made of.  The difference in performance of steel alloy and technology is negligible as far as your question is concerned, I doubt it would give you a big advantage if at all, maybe your sword would be tougher and hold an edge longer, but realistically it wouldn't help you being bragging rights. The question has a mistaken premise. Can we make steel today that's harder than stuff from medieval times? You bet. But it's irrelevant.

See, contrary to every sword movie you've ever seen, REAL sword fights didn't consist of people clanging their swords together at right angles. No matter how good your steel is, that's how you get a blunt or broken sword. Looks great in the movies, not so much in real life. Watch some videos of real modern fencing or kendo, that's a *little* closer to what real swordfighting was like.

Rather, sword fighters parried blows, which is essentially using the sword as a lever to angle the blow off in a different direction. A sword fighter seeks to slash or stab, not hack.

Against armor, a sword fighter seeks to slash or stab into vulnerable areas between individual armor plates. Somebody with a more substantial weapon, like a big-ass battle axe, *might* hack at thinner parts of armor in an attempt to dent and weaken it. Coming down on chain mail with a substantial axe can break bones and cause blunt-force lacerations.

The very best sword we could make today in the hands of a mediocre fighter would have no chance against somebody with a POS sword who was a master sword fighter.
 Just assuming you're talking about Europe, medieval metallurgy was no where near as technologically advanced as it is today. We can now make alloys that are harder than their steel and less brittle. So their swords wouldn't stand a chance, modern technology would snap the blade off at the hilt in a contest.      
      
As far as armor goes, I doubt if we can make a blade that would readily slice through the armor, but penetrating the armor in a more stabby way wasn't too hard then. The life of the blade could probably be improved with modern alloys, so you could get more penetrations out of the same blade, but the penetrating power of a single attempt would probably not be changed too much. . Do you know of any examples of modern materials that are sword worthy? Just looking around a bit on other science forums, it looks like steel is still the best as far as holding an edge, so it is still preferred. ~~But the Japanese technique of folding the steel over and over produces a much stronger blade that the European steel.~~  (This was claimed by some, but as other redditors have pointed out, it's most likely a commonly disseminated myth.)   
    
It was also suggested by someone that:    
    
&gt;One could make a sword from a composite of materials such as long carbon or silicate chain macromolecules (allowing high tensile and shear strength) with a metallic or ceramic filler to give hardness and sharpenability   
     
But on the whole it seems that modern steel alloys are the preferred material.     
    
[Here's](http://www.spacedaily.com/news/meteor-01a.html) an article about a Purdue engineering professor who made the strongest blade ever from the iron in a meteorite (the meteorite iron was used to enhance the sword's "mythical" properties, but it was alloyed with tin to make it stronger and 'self-healing'.)     
     
&gt;production of a self-healing alloy composite in which thin memory shape alloy wires are imbedded in tin alloys. If the system is placed in tension, eventually the tin alloy will crack. By heating the material, the shape memory alloy filaments, which also had been stretched, return to their original positions, effectively closing the crack. To fully heal the material, it is heated enough so that liquid beads of tin form around the crack. Upon cooling, the tin structure is void of all previously formed cracks     
     
  
(Edit: Forgot to mention there was note of a modern steel that has a hardness such that it can only be sharpened with diamond. So modern steel seems to be best.)      
      
(Edit 2: Corrected factual inaccuracy.) &gt; But the Japanese technique of folding the steel over and over produces a much stronger blade that the European steel.

This is a common misconception. Folding the steel did not, in fact, produce a much stronger blade than a European blade. The whole reason that the Japanese folded the steel was that the iron they had access to had high carbon content and was impure. Folding the raw steel homogenized the carbon content and eliminated impurities in the metal. Beyond that though, further folding doesn't do much at all to increase the strength of the steel. Europeans didn't have nearly as low-quality iron ore to work with, so folding the steel before forging a sword wasn't necessary. Wait, you might be right about *why* they did it, but how would the cold-working not increase the strength of the steel? At some point, the carbon in the steel becomes homogenized enough for further folding to be useless. It's like mixing cake batter for 3 hours straight - it becomes a waste of time and you'll more likely end up ruining it.

As for cold-working, it is exactly that; working the metal when it's cold. Cold-working something makes the metal harder, but harder is not always better; a sword that is too hard is also brittle and will snap with too much impact. A sword needs to have some springiness to it. The proper way to harden a sword is through a heat treating process, which gives more control and precision over how hard or springy you want the sword to be. You need to heat up the billet until it's red hot, hammer it into a sword blank, reheat the sword blank to relieve any stresses from hammering, quench it in water or oil to harden the steel, and then perhaps temper the sword blank to return some more elasticity to the material. Why quench it in oil instead of water? Changes how quickly the steel cools which will affect the grain structure, altering the steels hardness and elasticity Does oil cool it more slowly because it's less dense than water? Cooling in oil is slower than water, and a slower cooling rate will give higher ductility and toughness, at the expense of lower strength and hardness. Just a note that the japanese folded their steel, because it was a.much lower quality than european steal (also scares), and the process was used to create more pure and therefore stronger steel. Sadly they weren't better than european. At best they were the same quality. This is the reason why the japanese started buying and fighting in portugese armor wich was cheaper. This is why their armor originally had many bamboo parts. &gt; (also scares)

Yes this is the reason why European swords were tougher than Japanese swords. They didn't scare as easily. Citations needed all over this. Yes, we have much stronger and less brittle alloys, but based off of the human mechanics for how swords are swung I am not convinced that it would be a matter of simply slicing through or snapping medieval weapons.  Yeah, the notion that a stronger, modern blade can sever/shear a primitive blade is fantastical.  the idea of cutting through the shaft of an early stone headed spear is enough of a stretch as is. What about something like a poleaxe or spear? Could a carbon fiber pole with increased rigidity and lighter weight give a advantage? The Nova program *[Secrets of the Viking Sword](https://youtu.be/nXbLyVpWsVM)* was about a sword known as the [Ulfberht](https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ulfberht). The metal used to make these swords tested favourably against modern metals. In other words, I don't think is possible to make a better steel sword today. Watch the program, BTW. A modern blacksmith recreates an Ulfberht. It's fascinating. Seems like the swordsmanship would trump the quality of the sword.  

It seems a medieval sword wouldn't be quite as sharp, strong, light etc, as a modern one could be,  but it'd still be strong and sharp enough to cause some damage to human flesh and likely won't break even hitting a superior sword.

Looking at Olympic records over the last hundred years, possibly the athleticism we have now would trump the medieval people, and certainly modern size would give an advantage.    On the other hand, lots of folks aren't work or battle hardened like they used to be.  Ok, so clearly modern metallurgy isn't up to the task by itself.  So let's get clever.  How about electrifying the sword (specially insulated from the hilt) so that if it touches the opponent's sword or armor it operates like a taser? Or better yet, why not attach an ak47 onto the hilt. Your naive enemies will believe its just a plain sword, until you pull the trigger. Their unwieldy platemail will be powerless against your sword shaped assault rifle. How about this cup, completely unnoticed right? But if you're in trouble, BAM, pistol ready to go Box of soda? Hardly, it's actually a concealed m4 assault rifle. [deleted] How about this spoon? Looks like a normal spoon, right?

Wrong. It is actually a deadly half-spoon half-serrated knife with tactical grip. One minute you are enjoying a bowl of cereal, next minute you are fighting off attackers with this deadly and disguised weapon. In the early era of small guns they put guns on f'ing everything including swords, canes, shields and even other guns. (It didn't really take off but a lot of people tried it, so it probably wasn't a great idea). To be fair, a lot of the gun tech back then was quite awful so that might be more the reason it didn't catch on.  Some of those pepperbox pistols were just about as dangerous to the user as the potential target, for example.  I think a very reliable cane gun or umbrella gun could be made today if it wasn't probably highly illegal. If by 'could', you mean 'totally were made and used by the CIA and KGB', I entirely agree. A full set of medieval plate armor would actually make a fantastic Faraday cage and block the current.  They wore steel plate on top of thick leather and fabric, which is a fantastic way to keep electricity away from your body and direct it around you instead. [Exactly,](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=a2DiN3oLFUo) [couldn't](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3FpjcOWwiI4) [have](https://www.youtube.com/watch?t=63&amp;v=pJqoRaphiEk) [said it](http://learning.blogs.nytimes.com/2012/10/03/high-voltage-analyzing-the-physics-behind-an-electrifying-stunt/?_r=0) [better](http://www.fastcodesign.com/3034217/get-zapped-with-500000-volts-of-electricity-in-style-in-this-futuristic-chainmail-dress) [myself!](https://www.google.com/search?q=tesla+coil+chain+mail&amp;biw=1920&amp;bih=943&amp;tbm=isch&amp;tbo=u&amp;source=univ&amp;sa=X&amp;ei=BQWFVYP3IYqryAS-5LTgCQ&amp;ved=0CCoQsAQ) Let's electrify it to the point the internal resistance causes it to glow red hot. And also attach an electric motor to its hilt that causes it to vibrate at super high frequency. At this point it's probably impossible to actually hold, so let's build a powered suit so it can be wielded properly. Let's power this suit with some portable nuclear device since nobody wants to carry around a rack of batteries or a generator. Actually, scrap the sword idea, you could pierce armor better with a super laser...or a big gun. Why not take the sword and attach a GPS guidance module and drop it on your opponent from orbit. I'm certain the penetrating power would be significantly better than a traditional sword. 

*edit* On second thoughts, I think we'd best attach a nuclear warhead to the sword tip to destroy the entire site. It's the only way to be sure. I'm not familiar with the universe but for a second I thought you were going to dive into the Warhammer 40k universe. I feel like a nuclear backpack powering a flaming dagger would be something from there. Knights wore padded garments under chain mail or plate armor, might limit conductivity.  Leather or lamellar armor would likely resist shock even better.  It sounds like cheating, you could just as well magnetize the blade or add a gun to it.  I thought the Op was more about metallurgy for the shape of a weapon rather than augmenting it with modern technology.    If you were going to augment it with technology and keep it non-projectile, probably a more effective thing to do would be to build some sort of lightweight chainsaw-sword.  Build it out of titanium with carbide teeth and use a very high torque electric motor connected to a backpack of lithium-ion batteries and you could potentially make something effective and terrifying.  It sure wouldn't be cheap though, and you'd have to spend a considerable amount of effort making the chain itself resistant to getting knocked off or jammed when parrying.  Plus armoring the backpack - someone stabbing your lithium-ion battery pack could end your fun real quick. I was saying this kind of thinking isn't fair, the op was talking about metallurgy and blade designs, not a new invention.  Chainsaw isn't exactly an evolution of the sword.   Impossible.  The steel will effectively short out the arc.  Nothing will affect the underlying flesh unless at least one contact hits skin, or the 2 contacts hit completely unconnected plates with flesh in between.  

If you could get to skin, you'd just stab them. The O/P's question has been answered quite well but I'd like to mention armor metallurgy. 

Its basically impossible to cut steel armor with a similar item. You can concuss a target or sometimes penetrate weak points with a thrust but it can't be cut.

Also we kind of assume plate armor or even chain mail is made of poor quality, cheap metal. This was often not the case and metal for say a suit of Milanese harness could be better than rolled hardened armor.

Our best  metal is better and cheaper than anything made in that era with less impurities but their best armor could be better than our mid grade armor.
 Sci-fi stories often feature monomolecular edges where a blade is capable of being sharpened down to a single atom/molecule wide.  Unfortunately, no materials are currently known that can be sharpened to this level without becoming too brittle for common use.  It is possible but not commercially feasible to produce a diamond edge only 3 atoms wide which is effectively the sharpest possible cutting edge.  Generally, the sharpest edge that can be achieved commercially is between 20 and 50 molecules wide on some type of amorphous glass such as obsidian.

Another common sci-fi meta material is monomolecular wire where a chain of single molecules is used for extreme tensile strength or as a weapon.  Larry Niven used this several times in his Ringworld stories. I'm skeptical that that would actually have the ability to eg cut through another sword or into armor. Picture a blade made of super rigid material only three atoms thick.  In theory, this should cut through ordinary carbon steel or armor like a knife through butter.  Obviously, no such material is currently known.  I agree that this is strictly pie in the sky flight of fancy.

Obsidian scalpels have been made and used for surgery where their extremely sharp edge is an advantage cutting soft tissue.  Google obsidian scalpel for some articles explaining their advantages and disadvantages. I'm familiar with obsidian scalpels, but that's a different matter entirely from slicing through steel. If you cut through metals with something that is too thin and short, the metal will just re-attach behind it. I mean, in vacuum, pieces of metal will just stick together.(not very strongly because their surfaces are typically very ugly)

Even objects made from covalent bonds also hold together and might stay together with vander waals forces if you cut it with just a few atoms width.. Nope. You would get a modest advantage in that your sword would be less likely to break, but the ability to win a fight, much less punch through plate armor or break through someone else's sword with your own depends much more on technique and strength. A medieval steel tipped heavy pole arm is already well designed to puncture armor, and would be nearly just as likely to punch through plate as a modern alloy one with a tungsten carbide tip.  There was a post on /r/DnD a few weeks ago where a guy was asking on how to make model combat more realistic in game.  One of the better responses outlined how it basically came down to what you are saying: pole-arms are the weapon of choice against heavily armored opponents.  Several reasons, IIRC, such as longer moments and heavier heads allowed for greater puncturing and sundering forces.  I will see if I can find it and link it here...
 I would attach [this](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=53GJJHwQ8BA) or incorporate a sword using lasers to blind the opponent. I would also create a taser sword to shock the opponent on contact with press, even when touching his plate. 

Wearing plate myself that would be insulated with a visor that can deal with blinding lasers, you could easily deal with any medieval opponent with your sorcery.  &gt;taser sword

[Won't work.](http://www.medicaldaily.com/pulse/survive-lightning-strikes-wearing-metal-suits-standing-your-feet-close-together-315630) The metal armor will conduct the current far better than the fleshy human inside. Unless they're not wearing sabatons(the metal boot things), the shock will go through the path of least resistance. umm... tungsten carbide is actually quite brittle

regardless. a sword is a sword is a sword you're ultimately limited by the power of the man wielding it, which compares unfavorably to the resistance of materials used in period armor

at the VERY best you could maybe try hiding a captive bolt gun inside a rapier or other relatively thin sword. stab, trigger, bam, bad guy has a hole in his armor protected face and no one is the wiser. I think something like [a sword breaker](http://www.coldsteel.com/Product/88CSB/SWORD_BREAKER.aspx) would be considered a weapon along the lines of Excalibur. It would be able to decimate most any medieval swords and armor with ease, and as far as I know maintenance is kind of a non-factor. What about carbon nanotubes, could we make a rigid buckyball capsule as long as a sword.  

Although even if it flexes you could make a bola, whip or net.

The theory being that if you can make something strong enough and fine/sharp enough it would cut through anything.

Or you could make a 'sword' from a material that can withstand super low temperatures and pump liquid nitrogen through it.  Should shatter all steel armour weapons on impact.

Or ditto but with super heated oxygen, could that rust through/oxidise steel. I'd say that if you got modern steel alloys and folded the metal together with modern furnaces and machines, the blade would be superior and more durable to a extent, but it wouldn't get you a advantage on just a 1 on 1 fight, but it definitely would be beneficial during a extended campaign. Based on the summaries already in the thread, a standard sword-shape made out of any modern material wouldn't be massively more effectively against medieval plate armor.

You'd have to cheat, or at least think outside the box. A long mace with an explosive head, for instance. Probably something which would be quickly banned from 'friendly' combat contests as dishonorable, but could be devastating on a true battlefield. Particularly if the mace-head itself didn't explode, but striking something with one of the nodules detached a nodule-grenade with a short fuse or even just a string leading back to the mace head. Tap someone with the mace, then pull the mace back, and they get a fragmenting spike exploding through their armor and turning them into chutney. Have a ball mace with multiple nodules sticking out of it (with replacement balls able to be snapped into place), or get fancy and make the shaft above the grip into a giant enclosed magazine.

Bonus: a shaped-charge explosive would mean less blowback outside the opponent's armor affecting the mace's wielder.

Downsides: if the charges needed to be struck against a hard object to arm and detach from the mace, the weapon would probably be less effective than a normal mace against an unarmored opponent, as a magazine-shaft would be a bit more unwieldy than a simple iron rod. The wielder would also most likely want to be armored themselves (with interior padding) due to stray shrapnel being generated at close quarters. An opponent striking the mace head with a sword or another mace may also be able to either set off a charge or damage/jam the feeder mechanisms. Yes! In order to handily deal with armor you need to pierce it. So the hilt will need adapted to have a bracing point so it doesn't give so much when striking. So elongate the hilt with a sturdy material and shape it so it contours the front of your shoulder. 

Then with modern technology we can actually make the blade rounded instead of a straight shaft. This allows it to handle compressive power better. 

You need to be very accurate in hit placement, so you need a mechanism like a camera has, where when you see it's at the right point, you push a button and it strikes. But how? You are controlling it with your body!

So instead, we will add the mechanism and inside the rolled blade we will place a small piece of metal and some modern explosive substance. Brace the hilt against your shoulder, wait til the tip of your modern sword has found the exact spot for maximum damage, trigger the mechanism, and the projectile will be expelled from the sword at high velocity, piercing the armor and handily dealing with the opposing sword wielder with his puny straight blade and standard hilt. 

Tl;dr - gun. Use a gun.  How about a thrusting sword made rigid with a circular cross section fitted with internal springs to store energy? I bet you make a sword that is essentially a giant sharpened automatic center punch that would pierce plate armor. I feel like no one is being creative enough to address your real question. 

Using pure steel in a very similar fashion to the old ways you'd only be able to improve so much. As stated in these threads it would mostly just increase the durability of the weapon. But what you want is total combat domination.

So for that answer I'll give you a couple ideas to try out:

You could EASILY equip a sword with an electric current. This would decimate anyone wearing a metal suit of armor. It wouldn't be quite what you want, but the result would be victory none the less.

You could fashion yourself a flame sword of some type using a super torch or some other device. This wouldn't have much blunt impact if any, but stabbing someone with this sword would metal away or warp their armor to the point of immobility. This could also be an attachment to a regular styled sword so anytime your blade got stuck or lodged in somewhere you could melt your way out. Your blade would of course be coated in a fire resistant seal. 

It's 2015, we can probably make a lightsaber of some sort. 

It's definitely possible to devise an OP weapon to take back whenever you head that way.


 Certainly we can, and do, make higher quality weapons than they did in the medieval period. Whether a modern steel blade is sufficiently 'better' in a range of metrics to actually be considered a 'super weapon' is very difficult to say.  Modern day swords would be much more lighter in weight, and sharper. It could be built with diamond edges, graphene composites, nano-reduction in material and architected to require with much less material but structurally very sound for combat.

Anyone wielding a modern day sword at the top of technology geared for sword combat would basically be wielding an extremely sharp, structurally sound sword as light as a feather. You could use modern technology to build a device in which [the stabbing point is projected at your opponent](https://youtu.be/4DzcOCyHDqc).


 The technical name for this device is a GUN. I think they may be the reason why swords have fallen out of use for combat in the military. Unless you're [Mad Jack Churchill](https://en.wikipedia.org/?title=Jack_Churchill); but he was mad. Ooh, this was my PhD thesis topic.

So let's go back almost 40 years to the Voyager 2 mission, which launched in 1977. It flew past Jupiter in 1979, giving us great close-up views of [swirling clouds, storms, and bands](http://i.imgur.com/BX4iYlF.gif). Awesome!

Next up was Saturn in 1981. Things were definitely hazier at Saturn - presumably because it's a good 30 degrees colder - but with a little CSI-style image enhancement, there were still plenty of [swirling clouds, storms and bands](http://i.imgur.com/QmoHwHx.jpg) to be seen. Good stuff!

Uranus was up next in 1986, and folks were very excited to see the planet through Voyager since it's only a tiny turquoise disc as seen from Earth - these would be our first good views ever! We got there and....[yeah](http://i.imgur.com/Ra54BVV.jpg). A bit of a bummer, really. Even with our [CSI-style enhance](http://i.imgur.com/UdTj7Tr.jpg), there's really just not much to be seen there. Maybe a cloud in the upper right.

Finally, Voyager 2 flew past Neptune in 1989, and what did we see? [This](http://i.imgur.com/nDABtu2.jpg). That's more like it! Swirling clouds, storms, bands...that's what a giant planet is supposed to look like.

So what's the deal with Uranus? Well, scientists realized that unlike the other 3 giant planets, Uranus seems to have no internal source of heat. Jupiter is warmer than you'd expect if it were only heated from the Sun, mostly due to gravitational compression from its formation; as it squeezes down, heat is released. Saturn is much the same, warmer than it should be due to compression, though also probably because of the separation of helium from hydrogen providing a source of heat. Neptune is also warmer than it should be because...well, actually *we don't know* why Neptune is warmer, and that's a great unsolved problem in planetary science, but a topic for another question.

Uranus, though, is exactly the temperature you'd expect it to be if only heated by the Sun. "A ha!" say the scientists, "Without any excess internal heating, there's no energy for all those exciting storm dynamics that we see on other giant planets! We are very smart!" And that's where the subject stopped for 20 years.

Uranus, however, had another trick up its sleeve. Unlike the other giant planets, Uranus has this crazy 82 degree axial tilt - it's essentially rotating on its side. When Voyager flew past, the planet was at solstice - in that Voyager picture, the North Pole is actually just about at the center while the rest of the planet spins around that point. All the areas in sunlight essentially stay in sunlight at solstice, and all the areas in darkness stay in darkness.

Now, fast forward 21 years - [1/4 of a Uranus orbit](http://i.imgur.com/1P7bzQi.jpg) - to 2007 when the planet was at equinox. For the first time in 42 years, the entire planet is getting regular day-night cycles. We point the Hubble Space Telescope at it...and [this is what we see](http://i.imgur.com/5LWnC98.jpg). Look at that, swirling clouds, storms, and bands! (That's also pretty close to the visible wavelengths seen in the Voyager image, so a comparison is fair here.)

Uranus woke up, and there's been a concerted effort by us giant planet folks to rebrand the planet with its newer, hipper image. This is a planet that clearly goes through quiet and active times...but why?

This is still up for debate, but the working theory here is that without any internal heat, changing sunlight patterns are the only thing that controls the climate of the planet. Based on what Uranus is made of and the thickness of the atmosphere, there seem to be a full season lag between sunlight and temperature - so the temperature is most equal between hemispheres right around solstice, meaning boring times. At equinox, meanwhile, the temperature difference is maximized, and it can form all kinds of interesting weather patterns by tapping into that difference in energy between hemispheres.

**TL;DR** Uranus is only boring *sometimes*. Just wanted to say, you explained this so beautifully and it was actually easy to understand a topic (that is obviously way more complicated seeing as how you wrote your thesis on it) so thanks for taking the time to answer.  You can tell how well someone understands a topic based on how well they explain it.  Tell that to all the barely intelligible math professors at uni.

There's more to teaching than knowing. I dunno, that flat surface is pretty beautiful! It looks like a perfectly spherical marble or something.  when i used to go diving in the marshall islands i would frequent a spot called the sandy flats. [it would just go on and on](http://www.wallpapersdb.org/wallpapers/beach/underwater_sand_1920x1200.jpg) (not the actual spot be very similar) and on those really calm days it was just the most serene thing to just sit there and listen to the ocean noise. I could see this happening in one way on Uranus. Totally off topic but Freshman year of high school I thought astronomy was the coolest thing and wanted to study it so badly in college, sadly I went on to study criminal justice. Everything you just said and explained made me remember how cool astronomy is and wish I had studied it instead. Similar here. 

I always was fascinated by astronomy, and was gung ho to pursue it as a career. But my highschool only had one optional science program. In grade 10 you take biology, in grade 11 you take chemistry, and in grade 12 and 13 (Known as OAC) was Physics. Each was a prerequisite for the next, no skipping allowed.

All the Universities required OAC sciences for Astronomy programs, and at the time, I was too squeemish for Biology. I got a 96% in Grade 9 science, but in grade 10 I tried Biology and had to drop it, so I was never able to progress that path.

I tried to go straight with Math, and see if I could get in through the back door, but it was slammed in my face. I needed the Science. I was so disheartened, I never did wind up going to University. Did a few failed stints in community college.

Now I'm almost 40, have a desk job in a big city where my telescope can't see crap, but the rare times, every couple of years, I get out beyond the light, when I get a chance to stare up at the heavens are when I feel the happiest. There's nothing wrong with maintaining an astronomy hobby.  You can keep up with the cutting-edge research at a place like arxiv.org, you've got your telescope, and a great purpose for trips out of the city.

I'm an experimental astrophysicist, I do my work with a big telescope (for now, at least), and I still get more excited over watching a meteor shower than my day-to-day work.  

I love what I do, but work is work, and even if you love it, it's never going to feel as good as when you're setting aside time to just enjoy something without any kind of responsibility attached to it.  Plus, getting into the guts of this stuff sort of "demystifies" it as you get into the nitty-gritty of making measurements and fitting data to models, etc.  

Just looking at awesome APOD pictures or reading summaries of recent breakthroughs isn't really work, but it's still the part the tickles that little kid sense of wonder. 40 is not old. You spent first 20 years growing up.. 20 years to settle down, now its time to explore :) What a rollercoaster of emotions that you just sent me on. Here's hoping you get to get out to look up more often.  [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] Have you ever played Kerbal Space Program? Way too much. I play with no mods, because I consider that cheating...at least after you've taken graduate level orbital mechanics, anyway.

I still can't quite get a manned return mission from Eve, though, which may have led to a few rage quits in my time. Well, previously, the problem was that the builder included zero statistics on the weight, and delta-v of each stage, and the combined rocket. 

So you basically had to guess, or copy someone's existing ship (NO thank you!). I think newer KSP has that built in now, but I remember when I first got a mod that showed the delta-v as you built it and all a sudden I had more than enough fuel to get to Mun and back. That's the only mod I used.

The other thing is that stock doesn't give you any ideas about atmospheric density/drag, so you have to read the wiki for the "ideal" maximum speed for an altitude--which differs from Earth because the KSP solar system is differently scaled.

I didn't realize I was burning up a ton of my fuel just trying to get up as fast as I could. I thought "the longer you sit there hovering, the more fuel you waste" but that's only without wind resistance. There's a sweet spot between too much resistance, and too much wasted energy from "less than max throttle". 

I'm sure you know that latter part, but a passerby reading my comment might not.

Oh, and lastly, IIRC, KSP rockets are all vastly under-powered compared to NASA rockets so people have more "fun" trying to learn to make good ones since money was limitless (till somewhat recently). So if you had a multi-trillion dollar budget, and NASA rockets, you really could go anywhere in the solar system pretty easily if you didn't mind casualties. Of course NASA rockets need to get into orbit around something with ~10x the radius and twice the atmospheric height as [Kerbin](http://i.imgur.com/otYaT.jpg), and travel [much further](http://i.imgur.com/VDMWDPC.jpg) once they're in orbit

Install the Real Solar System mod and see how underpowered KSP rockets really are! [comment has been rearranged]

I believe the system is smaller because they ran into precision issues with the floating point numbers. Floating-point numbers kind of explode when you have astronomical distances and thousands of tiny increments of distance (velocity and acceleration). 

(KSP runs on Unity, so it's possible they couldn't switch to something like fixed-point numbers.)

For example, a ship at 1 billion miles from the sun, incrementing 1 foot/second/60 frames-per-second game logic rate means a very tiny number is being added to a very large number, and floats are adapt at measuring ONLY either a large, or a very small number. 

It extremely explodes if your algorithm is dividing by a difference of two large numbers. Two numbers could be equal, but with tiny rounding error, you're now multiplying your number by almost infinity. The numbers cancel, but you're left with something like 0.000000000000002301.

It's really interesting stuff how two formulas that are algebraically the same, can produce wildly different amounts of error propagation depending on the order of computation.

Also, KSP doesn't support "true" gravity. The solar system is running on hard-coded paths and objects experience gravity only towards the closest spherical body. They call it "Sphere of Influence." It simplifies the problem of solving for those positions, but you lose some subtle things like [Lagrange points](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lagrangian_point). The lack of Lagrange points is a bummer.  Seeing how those actually behave and getting a rocket parked inside of one would be so cool. I wonder if there is a mod to fix this, cause I for one would love to play in an ultra realistic space simulator.

^(I also hope ksp goes on sale during thebsteam summer sale, I really want to play it :D) Check out Principia for KSP. It's an in-development mod that will ad realistic gravity for KSP.  Another large reason for a scaled down universe is playability. With a huge solar system travel times and waiting times take 3x-4x longer for everything. I know time warp exists but as you point out floating point errors reduce accuracy and a higher time warp limit only increases the effect.
  Well, MechJeb might be considered cheating, but Realism Overhaul certainly doesn't get anywhere *near* cheating. You're just making the game a million times ~~more fun~~ harder! Is asparagus cheating? I got a stock 32 stage section up in .23.5 once... refuel after launch, refuel at eve, refuel after lifting off at eve with one stage left... &gt; Now, fast forward 21 years

You can tell he definitely does. He sped up physics to see Uranus when it was more interesting. Can you imagine being a scientist doing this during these times.  Especially after the launch if the Hubble telescope.  Things being confirmed, questions being answered.  Man what an exciting time Well questions are always being answered, the answers usually just bring along a lot more questions! This sounds strange, but as of 2010, a lot of heliophysicists have been going through something similar when it comes to the Sun. Since the launch of SDO in 2010, heliophysicists learned more about the sun during its first three years since the start of recorded history. So apart from gorgeous pictures, SDO has contributed so much to heliophysics and I hope it continues to do so for many years more. Is there more I can read about discoveries made with the SDO?  Here are some links to some interesting talks, papers, etc.:
- Neat Talk about the Sun and how SDO helps understand it - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Di4v-vgCvtA&amp;list=PL7D437230CAAB6B9C&amp;index=7
- Website with information about the Sun which most has been found from SDO, MMS, and IRIS data - http://www.thesuntoday.org/
- 5 Year compilation of SDO data and article describing the contents of the video -http://www.nasa.gov/content/goddard/videos-highlight-sdos-fifth-anniversary

There are also a ton of scientific papers that have been written from the SDO data, but you normally require subscriptions to be able to read those.
 Yes, although I'm not the guy you replied to. I highly recommend it to him. Now I know a lot about orbital mechanics. To sum up what I learned: Orbits are *very* weird. Astronomy is really damn cool a topic, but if you do it full time, its really a shitload of complex math and computer modeling.

If you like looking at the stars and galaxies, however, it's never too late to become an amateur astronomer.

Plus, if you want to play Rocket Scientist while learning actual science, Kerbal Space Program will do a good job at that. Couldn't agree more. There's a big difference between "doing astronomy" and "being interested in astronomy," same as having an interest in the implications of physics is *not* a good reason for getting a physics degree (personal experience, can you tell...?)

Modern astronomy is a branch of computer-assisted physics, which is great if you're that way inclined, but it ain't smoking weed and looking at the stars. It's not too late for you to take up Astro-justice!

Or Criminal Asotronomy! Earth: "There I was just minding my own business where I see this comet just whiz right by."
Detective: "Do you know this comet?"
Earth: "Eh, maybe I-something. ISON? Looked like he came from the Oort Cloud. He looked worried."
Detective: "Worried?"
Earth: "Yeah, like it was sweating, didn't wanna be there or where he was going?"
Detective: "Do you know where he was going?"
Earth: "No, look I gotta get going. I don't want to start any trouble or anything. We done here?"
Detective: "Yeah. Take care." *sounds like another one of Jupiter's victims being yanked from orbit. I swear I'm going to get her behind bars one day.*

DUN DUNN [deleted] Great post, thank you!

&gt; separation of helium from hydrogen providing a source of heat.

Can you describe that more?  How are they separated, and wouldn't that take energy to do rather than release it?  They have a different density, so gravity can separate them. That releases potential energy. But aren't they in a state of lower entropy when separated? But the entropy of the system increases, due to the released heat (and gravitational energy). One way to think about entropy is in terms of usable energy. The more energy in a system that can be extracted to do work, the lower the entropy of that system. If the gases separated in a way that put the denser gas above the less denser gas, that would lower the entropy, because that situation could be exploited to do work. In that situation, the denser gas would sink and the less denser gas would rise, releasing usable energy, until the denser gas is under the less dense gas, and no more energy can be extracted from the system. I get it - though it seems less ordered, it takes energy to put it in the mixed-up state. Okay, so what are leading hypotheses about why Neptune is warmer? Unfortunately there are no really good hypotheses right now.

The obvious one is maybe, like Jupiter and Saturn, Neptune also has heat left over from from formation that's being released as it's compressed. However, the math just doesn't work out on that one - at 4.6 billion years old, it should have cooled long ago.

Maybe like Earth it has a lot of radioactive elements in its core generating heat. The amount of heat Neptune generates, though (about twice as much as the sunlight it receives) seems just way too large for this to be the case, and you shouldn't even get that many heavy radioactive elements that far out in the solar system.

Neptune is located right on the inner edge of the Kuiper Belt - maybe it got hit by something? That heat would dissipate pretty quickly, though, so we'd have to be pretty lucky to catch it at just the right time. We'd also expect to see some other evidence in the atmosphere like a huge abundance of compounds normally found in Kuiper Belt objects.

A new one that just came out suggests that maybe we don't really understand the "equation of state" - the equation that explains how matter behaves at high pressures. If you rederive it in a certain way, it suggests that maybe the math does work out to provide enough heat from gravitational compression...but then you're left with a new problem of why Uranus doesn't produce heat in the same way. could it something as simple as core size? What if Uranus just has a smaller core producing less gravity which in turn produces less heat and Neptune is "big boned" lol so shes puts out a little bit more heat. We know its size and mass, so probably the size of its core too. [see](http://www.oglethorpe.edu/faculty/~m_rulison/Astronomy/Chap%2011-12-13/Images/intstruct.JPG) Since we obviously haven't drilled down to the cores of any planets --even Earth-- how do we know their composition? Before seismic sensitive equipment was invented, theorists knew about Earth's orbital characteristics.  They also knew that the average density of crustal materials was between 3.3-3.6g/cm^3.  Going by the orbital dynamics, theorists expected the Earth to be composed of something with an average density around 5g/cm^3.  Splitting the difference, theorists realized they needed a material with a density of about 8g/cm^3 to compose the core, hence speculation about a core made of mostly iron. Wrote a paper about weather on Neptune in undergraduate (by no means an expert). It is true that we really don't know why there is such active weather. This was back in 2011, so there could have been advancements, but there were two theories that were considered the most viable. The first was gravity waves propagating towards the surface bringing heat and turbulence. The other, and my favorite, was that at the core of Neptune, the ridiculous pressure causes the compression of methane into liquid diamonds and long hydrocarbons. This compression into materials of different densities causes convection, again bringing heat and turbulence towards the surface. But we really don't know. That's why we need to go back! Kind of offtopic, but when and how was Uranus' tilt determined?

Tried to find this out myself but can only find people talking about HOW it happened, not when people figured out that it was. This is a really good question.

There were definite hints this might be the case going all the way back to late 1700's. Just after Uranus' discovery in 1781, its two largest moons were discovered in 1787, and their orbits were both oriented sideways, suggesting the planet might also rotate that way.

Better confirmation came when telescopes became powerful enough to see banding on the planet when the bands were visible. [This drawing](http://i.imgur.com/1y6dbeQ.png) from 1884 during a previous equinox was one of our best displays of Uranian features prior to the modern age, showing clear indication of banding and demonstrating the orientation of the equator (North is to the upper left). Wait, so we knew it had bands back in 1884, but then decided it had none 100 years later? I mean, sure, a probe is much better evidence than a 19th century telescope, but did nobody think to ask why it had bands then but none now when Voyager arrived? Well, a lot of folks assumed it was some kind of artistic embellishment. Don't forget that Lowell drew canals on Mars, which later turned out to not be true at all, and he was quite likely drawing internal reflections of his own retina.

Uranus is much smaller as seen from Earth, so any detail recorded about the disc was immediately suspect. I am curious about "The Brothers HENRY" referenced in that image.

I presume it refers to these guys:

http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Paul_Henry_and_Prosper_Henry Ooh, very cool. I love historical astronomy, not just because it's historically interesting, but because it can actually provide data for us about astronomical phenomena that take way longer than a human generation. I've heard that Uranus has a "depleted" core (but the inside is still plenty hot). But I don't get why having a hot core would create more weather. It would radiate the same amount of heat in all directions, and since the planet is fluid, the composition, and hence thermal conductivity, should be the same everywhere, too. &gt;  since the planet is fluid, the composition, and hence thermal conductivity, should be the same everywhere, too.

Well, not necessarily. Heat conduction is actually really weak for all the giant planets (cold hydrogen gas just doesn't conduct heat well). Their main mode of heat transfer is convection from the hot interior to the cold exterior.

This is still very theoretical, but the idea is that while Uranus may have just as much heat as Neptune, it might be trapped there. Convection that would normally occur could be prevented by strong vertical gradients in density, which we think we might have picked up in the noisy Voyager measurements of Uranus' gravitational field.

All of this is still conjecture until we get a Uranus orbiter, when we can really nail down the exact structure of the Uranian gravitational field. Dude, your posts were awesome to read. Thanks Mike!  Seconded. It is a little mind blowing to think of gas giants convecting like this. The usual model we see of gas giants is "top cold, bottom hot" without much detail on structure.  Yeah, Astromike is awesome! Seriously great TIL for me.

Also, does anyone know if a Uranus orbiter is in the works? I'm guessing there isn't due to more interesting endeavors elsewhere. &gt; All of this is still conjecture until we get a Uranus orbiter

Is this something that's in the works, or just a "would be nice"? The NRC decadal survey from a few years ago specifically asks for a Flagship Mission of a Uranus orbiter and atmospheric probe to be started before 2022. I think a few designs have already been proposed. NASA's response is basically, "we would love to, but we don't have the funding to do this plus our higher priority missions to Mars and Jupiter."

However I've also heard things about the SLS rocket increasing the possibility of a Uranus orbiter, as it can get the spacecraft there faster. The SLS doesn't really start operating until early 2020s, but they claim they can get to Uranus in 4 years or so. Any other launch system would take 10-15 years to get there. I'm cautiously optimistic I'll see this mission completed in my lifetime. (I'm 27) You don't even know how true that statement about funding at NASA is. They've gotten to the point of not having enough internal projects for teams to review so now they are reviewing external projects for companies so as not to go crazy from doing nothing. In the last twenty years they've had a grand total of $100,000,000 of increased budget. That's nothing compared to inflation over that period.  That's some pretty crazy math to get it to hit an orbit with uranus.  Are we that good? We currently have a thing orbiting around a tiny 3km piece of ice with a very feeble gravitational pull. And we even landed a probe on that. All that after a [12years trip](http://i.imgur.com/TUkKuhf.gif) and 4 flybys.

We *are* that good. And by we I mean they.
 It's not crazy math at all. The [equations](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/N-body_problem) needed have been known for hundreds of years and can be done on any pocket calculator. Also, we can figure out pretty much exactly where Uranus is (and will be), as well as the planets needed for the [gravity assists](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gravity_assist) to get us there. Yes. And actually the group that produced the Uranus orbiter mission originally was charged with examining orbiter missions for both Uranus and Neptune.  However, one ground rule for the study handed down by the Decadal Survey was that missions much launch no earlier than 2022.  By that time, Jupiter gravity assist options are not available for Neptune missions for a number of years.  While Neptune orbiters could still fly, they would require aerocapture (an untested technology) or loooong ass flight times.  This study group, therefore, dropped Neptune as a focus and concentrated on Uranus orbiter missions.  The lack of a Jupiter gravity assist would impact a Uranus orbiter by requiring a solar electric propulsion stage and several flybys of Venus, Earth, and Saturn to reach Uranus within acceptable flight times. Yep.   Orbital mechanics math isn't simplistic, but it's well understood.   Just look at the planetary assist paths the Voyager probes took to head out of the solar system.   That's some fun stuff.  Fun fact, orbital assist theory was heavily debated, interesting enough though a Ph.D candidate proposed a working model of the 3-body problem using one of the most powerful computers at the time.  Although he (Michael Minovitch) wasn't able to convince NASA to pursue outer-solar system missions at the time, http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gary_Flandro , a summer intern, built off this model and discovered optimal planetary alignments over the course of 12 years that would allow chaining gravitational assists to accelerate a satellite out of the solar system.  For more on the maths behind the voyager missions:  http://www.bbc.com/news/science-environment-20033940  How could we put an orbiter around it without knowing the gravitational field?  We know the bottom line of the gravitational field pretty well - the so-called "zeroth moment" - which is just it's mass. That's all you really need to just get a spacecraft into orbit.

However, there are higher order moments that we don't know very well, and ultimately describe how that mass is distributed throughout Uranus, the density variations, how large the core is, etc. These affect a spacecraft's orbit by slowly changing its orientation over time.

This is exactly what we sent the Juno spacecraft to do when it arrives at Jupiter next year. It will make very tight orbits around Jupiter, and the rate at which its orbit reorients will tell us a lot about Jupiter's core. Wouldnt it be a matter of using that mass that we know from the zeroth moment, figure out an approximation based on how the storms are distributed, and use that as a first approximation to the integral of uP(u)du? Ooh, someone here knows math!

So the issue here is that discontinuities like a sharp density boundary at the core surface creating a "ringing" across all moments similar to a Fourier transform description of a square function.

That means knowing one moment isn't enough - we need to find u^(2)P(u)du, u^(4)P(u)du, u^(6)P(u)du, etc. (In general, planets only have even moments, since they're symmetrical.) There's just not enough data to go that deep into the moments without noise completely overwhelming the function. To add to /u/astromike23's response, at any given distance from a planet and velocity vector, there's a range of planet masses that will produce a closed orbit. So you don't even have to know the planet's mass very precisely to get in an orbit - in fact, you could be off by a few hundred percent and still orbit, although maybe not the orbit you want.

Let's use a geosynchronous orbit around Earth as an example. Say you're 42,000 km from the center of a planet, and a velocity of 3 km/s pointed exactly perpendicular to the line to the center of the planet. If that planet has a mass equal to Earth, you'll be in a circular orbit (with a period of 24 hours, but that's not important here).

If that planet has a mass greater than Earth's, now you're at the apoapsis (farthest point from the planet) of an orbit (by virtue of having a velocity that is still exactly perpendicular to the line to the planet), and you might ask, how big can the mass get before you hit the planet? If the planet's mass is less than Earth, now you're at the periapsis (closest approach, again because your velocity is pointed perpendicular to the line to the center of the planet). So, the question becomes, how much can the mass of the planet decrease before you no longer have a closed orbit?

We have the Vis Viva equation, which relates the kinetic and potential energy in an orbit (which are conserved assuming no forces are acting other than gravity, and so this relationship holds at every point in the orbit,

* v^2 = GM\*(2/r - 1/a)

where v is velocity (well, speed, because it doesnt have direction here), G is the universal gravitational constant, M is the mass of the planet, r is the distance from the center of the planet, and a is the semimajor axis of the orbit. If the orbit is closed, a is equal to the average of the apoapsis and periapsis,

* a = (A+P)/2

So, 

* v^2 = 2GM\*(1/r - 1/(A+P))
* M = v^2 / (2G\*(1/r - 1/(A+P)))

We know that with M = Me (the mass of the Earth), r = 42000 km, and v = 3 km/s, we're in a circular orbit, and P = A = 42000 km, so

* v^2 = 2GMe\*(1/r - 1/2r)
* Me =rv^2 / G

Then

* M/Me = 1 / (2r\*(1/r - 1/(A+P)))

And, since we're at apoapsis in our orbit around the new planet,

* M/Me = 1 / (2r\*(1/r - 1/(r+P)))
* M/Me = 1 / (2 - 2r/(r+P))

If we assume that we don't want to get closer to the center of the planet than 7000 km (which is about where the International Space Station orbits; remember that this is radius, not altitude), then how big can the mass get? Just plug in.

* M/Me = 1 / (2 - 2*42000/(42000+7000))
* M/Me = 3.5

So, your planet could be 3.5 times as massive as Earth before you'd get within 7000 km of the center, starting at 42000 km and 3 km/s tangent to the planet. (Of course, the radius of the planet and its atmosphere might grow as it gets more massive, but that's the basic calculation.)

On the other hand, how small could the planet get, and still have a closed orbit? Well, that's where the semimajor axis goes to infinity, so 1/a = 0 - a parabolic orbit. Back to Vis Viva, if 1/a is 0, then

* v^2 = GM * 2/r
* M = rv^2 / 2G

for a parabolic orbit. We use

* Me =rv^2 / G

again to find

* M/Me = 0.5

That is, a circular orbit (any circular orbit, in fact) around the Earth will become a parabolic orbit around a planet with half the Earth's mass.

So, the conclusion is, if we can get to a point in space 42000 km from a planet with a velocity of 3 km/s in the right direction, the mass of the planet can vary 700% between the low and high bounds before we wouldn't enter a closed orbit around it. I think I see. So, this convection turns Neptune into a sort of giant lava lamp, then? Can we just all stop and consider how there are actually storms and clouds and wind blowing on these planets. There are sounds and things happening and if you were there (you'd be dead) it'd look like nothing you had ever seen before.

I'm not normally the kind to have my mind blown easily, as I've had this sort of stuff in my head for ages so it's fairly commonplace for my thoughts. But I'm just thinking about how massive those planets are, and how it would be if you could survive floating there and be in the middle of those storms. For some reason the idea that these storms are probably actually creating sounds (if not only just whirring wind), and thinking about what it would be like to appear there and somehow survive for long enough to experience it. Maybe it's just because the sun is coming up and I've not slept yet but jeez. I'm really kind of awestruck by this mental picture and thought process I'm having all of the sudden. A while ago NASA released "space sound" recordings where they recorded electromagnetic vibrations from various planets like Neptune, Uranus, Saturn, Jupiter, and quite a few other places and converted them into audio we can hear. You can Google NASA space sounds or find some here: https://youtu.be/-MmWeZHsQzs Related: a while back a planetary scientist put up an article on the colours of skies on various gas giants and exoplanets. I'm in my phone so I can't really look for it, but this should be enough for you to Google it. :) I'm not sure if it's what you're referring to, but [http://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Extraterrestrial_skies](this Wikipedia article) has the same idea. Found them: 

http://instruction2.mtsac.edu/jkido/Biology%201/Lec%20Handouts%20&amp;%20Articles/Exam%202/The%20Color%20of%20Plants%20on%20Other%20Worlds.pdf 

http://cgg.mff.cuni.cz/projects/SkylightModelling/sccg_2013_alien_sun_preprint.pdf

I have a big pet interest in extrasolar planets, so I tend to dive right into papers. Which is cool, but I'd also LOVE to hear some true audio from some of these planets (the ones with atmospheres capable of transferring sounds, of course) Got it, Jupiter sounds windy.  Miranda sounds a little windy.   Neptune sounds windy, Uranus' rings sound strange, Saturn sounds windy, Saturn's rings sound kinda strange and a little windy, songs of  Earth sounds pretty boring, IO sounds kinda strange, Uranus sounds windy, Voice of Earth is kind of odd. Is this actually legit? This sounds almost like something you'd hear in a video game. Those sounds are amazing. I was playing baseball a few weeks ago and had a thought like this, except I imagined that earth was a foreign planet I'd never been to. Stared at the sky for like twenty minutes after the game. That's how I felt after watching Interstellar. Go see it, you obviously haven't yet ;-) But they don't go to gas giants.
Is there any film where somebody descends to a gas giant? I'd really like to see it.
The more satisfying thing in this matter I've seen is [Cosmos](https://coub.com/view/3ak7d) Jupiter Ascending, but ... well, it was very superhero-comicbook-like. So none of the cool calculatedness of Iain M Banks' The Algebraist, but it was visual. [deleted] [deleted] Thank you. For several reasons.

I learned something completely new about giant planets weather.

I once again rediscovered how powerful Hubble is, never knew we could see Neptune with such detail from earth.

That's why i love this site. This type of discussion and education just can't happen in a normal news/blog website. You write very well, made it very easy to read and digest, especially with the accompanying images. I LOVE the "boring" picture of Uranus. I find it a little haunting and seems so unique compared to other bodies in space.  That is a great answer, never thought about half the planet being in constant sunlight for a good part of its orbit. Does the 'dark side' look the same as in the picture? Well, we just don't know since it was dark and Voyager couldn't observe it - but all our models suggests it's *not* the same, though, and should have had a lot of storms during its long dark winter, especially in late winter after the top of the atmosphere has had a chance to cool down in darkness.

This is supported by observations of the dark side coming back into the sunlight between 1986 and 2006. Check out [this video](http://hubblesite.org/newscenter/archive/releases/1999/11/video/b/) of time-lapse observations from Hubble during this period. You can see the part of the planet just coming into view has a lot of dark orange spots - each of those is a storm. That was incredible. I didn't realize how powerful Hubble was to observe Uranus and all those moons too. To see them in motion like that was awe inspiring. Man I love the universe. Pardon the quick &amp; dirty MSPaint edit, but I think it sufficiently illustrates my point. How come, if we're looking at the pole in the first picture, that it doesn't look more like [this](http://i.imgur.com/KOMC85s.jpg)? Because there was no visible weather system at the time, due to its position on its orbit. At least that's what I understood from the post. Yep, you got the point. :) So what's the mechanism for the seasonal phase lag? Is the interior under the pole heating for a decade, and then radiating the next? What's the heat capacity and conductivity of the interior? What does it tell you about the internal structure? And most importantly, can it be reproduced numerically in hydrodynamic simulations?  &gt; This
http://i.imgur.com/nDABtu2.jpg

Why does my mind fill with the feeling of dread while watching this picture and zooming in ?
 It should. Bear in mind that everything that's visible in that picture is just 60 K (-210 C, -350 F), indescribably colder than any temperature you have personally experienced. That 82 degree axial tilt is incredibly intriguing to me. Has anyone investigated how the planet developed that way? The most popular theory is that early in the planet's history, an Earth-sized planetoid collided with it, which it turned it on its side. This theory has actually been falling out of favor lately.

Now that we have computers fast enough to actually simulate an impact like this, it turns out to be exquisitely difficult to produce an impact that is both large enough to tilt the entire planet, but also small enough not to completely obliterate the planet.

The current working hypothesis is now based on one or a series of gravitational near-misses that produced enough tidal torque to tile the planet. This one is also tempting because a lot of the latest planetary formation models actually have Neptune forming closer to the Sun than Uranus, then switching places during the Late Heavy Bombardment, with some close passes between the two. Isn't this still the prevailing theory for the earth-moon system though? Mars-sized object hits just right to neither obliterate the planet nor deliver a glancing blow and keep going. Sure, it needs to be extremely precise, but with 100+ billion stars in this galaxy alone, it's sure to happen a few times.  Yes, a giant impact is still the very well-established theory for the creation of Earth's moon. The success of that theory actually led to impact theories everywhere - why is Uranus tilted? Maybe it got hit by something. Why is Venus rotating backwards? Maybe it got hit by something. Why does Miranda have huge cliffs and chaotic terrain? Maybe it got hit by something.

This is one of those cases where "if you have a hammer, suddenly everything looks like a nail." Giant impacts certainly have happened a lot in our solar system, but they can't be used to explain everything. Oh, okay. That's understandable then if the Uranus explanation was just hopping on some bandwagon. I think the main reason the earth-moon theory still holds up is because of how similar the isotopes are...? I can't remember the exact explanation, but there is some pretty good evidence supporting it. (Though I doubt we will ever be able to confirm it.) Isotopes and general composition are a good line of evidence to show that Earth and Moon are made of the same stuff, but doesn't rule out the possibility that Earth and Moon formed together at the same time. 

What does rule that out is the Moon's orbit. If they formed together, the Moon should be orbiting in the plane of Earth's equator (similar to Jupiter and its moons). However, it's not - the Moon is orbiting much closer to the plane of the rest of solar system, suggesting the impactor came from elsewhere in the solar system. Oh, so eclipses are more frequent on Earth than on other planets? Because we can have them anytime instead of only at the equinoxes. Thanks for the read. Was very informative, very enjoyable and the pictures to back it up are awesome! Interesting and illuminating response.  Thanks for this.  I wish they would give this planet another name. I feel like a silly 10-year old thinking you-know-what everytime I read "Uranus" in your text. How can you tell if a planet is tilted on an axis or not? In space, there's no up, down, left, right, north, south etc. Is it just in relation to Earth? All celestial bodies orbit the Sun in an almost flat disk plane, with some slight deviation particular to each celestial body).  
We measure how tilted a planet's orbit is in relation to this plane. For example, Uranus and Venus are almost on their side relative to this plane, their axis is tilted very near to 90, whilst the likes of Earth are usually tilted around 20 to 25. Isn't Venus upside down? No, it rotates in the opposite direction compared to the other planets though.  To be fair, that's identical to the only possible meaning of "upside-down" when it comes to planets.

Also, I don't know what the current best theory is, but it seems that "upside down" might be the [best description.](http://www.scientificamerican.com/article/why-venus-spins-the-wrong/) What explanation is there for reverse rotation other than the planet being upside down? From wiki: axial tilt, also known as obliquity, is the angle between an object's rotational axis and its orbital axis, or, equivalently, the angle between its equatorial plane and orbital plane.[1] It differs from orbital inclination. Did Voyager 2 take any pictures of the terminator of Uranus? That's where I'd expect the 'action' to have been at the time, driven by the difference in temperature between the lit and dark hemispheres... Is it possible that the weather patterns of Uranus as viewed in '07 are invisible when viewing from the north pole as observed in 89?   Viewing angle is part of it - the dark winter hemisphere does seem to be stormier, but is most certainly not the whole story. We saw the entire summer hemisphere in the boring 1986 picture. We now see storms in the formerly-summer hemisphere, too. I can't tell you how happy I am to click through and not see a butt-joke.  I realize the standards are high here at /r/askscience, but its still reddit. Wow this is super interesting! Also is that video of Jupiter realtime or is it fast forwarded? That seems like it is moving outrageously fast!  It's way sped up. It's assembled from one image for every rotation of Jupiter during spacecraft approach, so each frame is separated by ~10 hours. [deleted] Thanks for being awesome! Perfect answer. Thanks dude. You are really cool! Just in case everybody else hasn't mentioned it yet. Thanks for the science read!  Interesting &amp; well written. Thanks! Okay, I know this is not totally related, but does these gas-giants have a solid core? is there a big ball of rock underneath the gas? That's the assumption. It's pretty tough to form a giant planet without an initial "seed" planetoid made of rock/ice to act as a gravitational sinkhole to pull in a bunch of gas.

That said, it's pretty tough to actually make any observations that provide direct evidence of this. The Juno spacecraft (set to arrive next year) will take tight orbits of Jupiter. Depending on how that orbit changes, that should hopefully provide evidence of the gravitational signature produced by a dense rock/ice core. I love how every once in awhile I learn about a badass space mission I never even knew was happening. Space agencies need better PR! Not scientist here, but maybe there was a "rocky seed" in the beginning, but now with that much pressure it just got melted Not necessarily. All that pressure actually favors states of matter that we normally think of as "cold" - namely liquids and solids. So for Uranus, at least, the core is almost certainly still solid.


For Jupiter (and possibly Saturn), and the other hand, there's so much more pressure that the mantle has become liquid metallic hydrogen. This turns out to be a very, very good solvent, so while the cores of these planets wouldn't have melted, they might have dissolved. What gravitational signature does a dense core produce? I understand that there's a fantastic amount of heat in Jupiter's core relative to Earth. Wouldn't all that heat allow for more homogeneous rock? Its a big ball of heavier elements - but there's not really a solid surface because its 30000+ degrees down there so everything is molten, and above it lies dense metallic hydrogen which is 10000 degrees at its upper boundary.  The metallic hydrogen apparently is like a liquid.   &gt; degrees

Celcius? Fahrenheit? Kelvin? According to the wording, it shouldn't be Kelvin; since Kelvin is based on an absolute scale, the use of the term "degree" would be inappropriate. Uranus has a fairly large amount of methane, located at the top of its atmosphere. Methane absorbs near red wavelengths of light giving Uranus a fairly featureless, teal/blue appearance when viewing it from the human-visible light spectrum.

If you were to take a picture of it in infrared, you'd notice a lot of banding like you see in other gas giants.

http://stardate.org/sites/default/files/images/gallery/d_iotw_20100601.jpg That doesn't explain [this picture](https://i.imgur.com/5LWnC98.jpg) taken 20 years after OP's picture, also in visible wavelengths.

It turns out that seasonality is *very* important for the planet. So, Uranus has tremendous clouds of methane? That's almost *too* coincidental. Why would they color it cyan, like the natural-light images? Are they just trying to confuse us? [deleted] Well, people had thousands of years of bronze smelting before anyone figure out how to get iron from ore. People used meteoritic iron long before then too, but of course there wasn't much of that.

Iron isn't too hard to get out of [bog ore](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bog_iron) or [goethite](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Goethite). Some places where you could get bog ore also yielded [iron nodules](http://www.hurstwic.org/history/articles/manufacturing/text/bog_iron.htm). Maybe someone got some bog ore mixed in to their bronze smelting operation.

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bloomery

&gt; The onset of the Iron Age in most parts of the world coincides with the first widespread use of the bloomery. While earlier examples of iron are found, their high nickel content indicates that this is meteoric iron. Other early samples of iron may have been produced by accidental introduction of iron ore in bronze smelting operations. Iron appears to have been smelted in the West as early as 3000 BC, but bronze smiths, not being familiar with iron, did not put it to use until much later. In the West, iron began to be used around 1200 BC. Bog iron is clumps of iron oxides and hydroxides. It needs a very hot bloomery to become metallic iron. 

You're not done though. High-quality bronze is stronger and harder than low-quality iron. It is only a truly better metal if you know what you are doing, which early smiths definitely did not.

The "strength" of early iron was in its availability. Tin to make bronze is somewhat rare, and was [transported long distances](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tin_sources_and_trade_in_ancient_times) in ancient times to combine it with copper. Iron is a single ingredient which is basically everywhere including bogs. If you can make it locally then it's really tempting to use it as much as possible instead of the expensive stuff, and with centuries of practice and accidental alloying with carbon it became possible to reliably turn iron into steel.

[Steel swords vs bronze swords](https://youtu.be/ngjMtzJ6xgQ?t=612) One thing interesting from my link about Nordic bog iron is that the iron nodules are a renewable resource. You can harvest them every few years. They take quite a few years (often decades) to refresh though, and it is likely that you would exhaust your bog iron ores in much the same way as you would a regular bedded ore. 

It's worth remembering that ore outcrops are found because they break the surface of the land and either weather to fantastic colours (red, yellow, orange in the case of iron, green in the case of copper) and because they cause substantial variations in the type of vegetation that grows in the area. So in many ways, they are easier to find, and easier to smelt, than bog ores. What kind of variations would different ore deposits cause in vegetation? Different plants prefer different kinds of soil to grow in. For example, soil acidity can be strongly influenced by the bedrock. So, it isn't variation in individual species, it is variation in the species growing over different types of bedrock. Yes! Agricola talks about it in his [De Re Metallica](http://www.gutenberg.org/ebooks/38015) from the 16th century - it is one of the best, earliest texts on mining and mineral extraction prior to the Industrial revolution. Loads of awesome woodcuts too. Its interesting,and now I know what is the cause of those iridescent pools in the woods near my house.I always thought it was just pollution (it looked like gasoline,it was a fair guess).Id like to try and find some iron nodules though,they would make a striking conversation piece. During the bronze age, both the copper and tin trades were incredibly important.  One of the foundational shipwrecks of nautical archaeology is the [Uluburun Shipwreck](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Uluburun_shipwreck) which contained 10 tons of copper and 1 ton of tin in the form of large "oxhide" ingots, which is the ratio needed to yield 11 tons of bronze.

It also contained a lot of other stuff that's very important archaeologically as well;  Canaanite jars (from Israel) full of terebinth (turpentine) from that region, for example, indicating trade between modern-day Turkey and Israel and the export of that material from Canaan. This.  Tin was scarce and expensive,  and iron was ubiquitous and damn near free.  The Earth's crust is made of roughly ~~32%~~ 5% iron, whereas tin is less than ~~0.001%~~ 0.00022%.  Also, if I'm not mistaken, the principal reason why the Romans invaded Britain was to get at its tin deposits. 

Edit: Thanks to /u/amaurea for reminding me that I'd gotten the crust mixed-up with the entire planet 32% is the fraction of the whole Earth made up of iron, not the crust, which is mostly made up of lighter elements. Only [5%](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Abundance_of_elements_in_Earth%27s_crust) of the crust is iron. Tin makes up 2.2e-6 (0.00022%) of the crust by weight. Bronze weapons were much sharper and superior to early iron weapons as well.  Remember that the smiths of the time used hammer hardening techniques to create a strong, sharp edge.  These techniques do not work on iron weapons, and it took a while for blacksmithing and ironworking techniques to be developed that lent to better and more useful iron weapons.  Iron weapons were available during the bronze age, they just weren't as good. Add to this that in 10,000+ years, humans haven't gotten any smarter. We've been this smart. We just have way more access to knowledge and the ability to pass it on through language, writing, and developing civilization.  People still expiremented and were able to learn just as now. It's not a giant leap to discover and ponder that if a soft metal like substance can be melted at a lower temperature, that a harder metal like substance might melt if you made it hotter. It's also not an incredible leap for someone to figure out that adding bone, likely as spiritual at first, would lend to a more pure metal and decide that adding things like bone leeches out more impurities from the metal itself.  That's why I find it so offensive when people insist we must have had help from ancient aliens.  Modern man develops microprocessors, sure that's reasonable but the ancient mayans piled rocks into pyramids- must have been aliens!  The arrogance of that reasoning is just infuriating. I still find it unusual that so many people confuse the progression of knowledge for the progression of intelligence.  Why do you find that unusual at all? That's an extremely predictable and easily understandable misconception. People commonly equate intelligence and knowledge. Whether or not that's actually true is irrelevant, but it's not even remotely surprising or "unusual" that people use the two interchangeably. Thank you for this.   

I hate it when people shame others for common misconceptions. It creates an environment where people are scared to ask and learn. Let's foster inquiry and curiosity not shame people for it. I've found that it's easy sometimes, after learning something, to adopt the feeling that you've always known that thing. Or to forget that the knowledge came to you in stages over years.  [deleted] It's a very easy trap to fall into. Some things can seem really counterintuitive until you understand them--and then *not* understanding suddenly seems to make no sense. I have to remind myself of it constantly. [deleted] There *is* evidence that human intelligence is on the rise, though. It's not like we stopped evolving once you and I were born. My understanding is that rises in intelligence are primarily due to improved diet.  If anyone knows mores, please share. I was taught that that was plausibly the reason for major leaps in intelligence around the time humans discovered how to reliably create fire, since eating cooked food had a greater nutritional yield, but I've never heard of it being the case recently. I thought the agrarian revolution had a negative effect compared to those hunter gathers who didn't need to waste their time and energy farming https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Flynn_effect

The rate of growth of intelligence (according to IQ tests and the like) has been linear, which likely wouldn't be the case if it was nutritional. It has also seemed to level off in recent years. Maybe there was evolutionary pressure to breed smarter, not harder. Maybe there is pressure for stupid people not to have as many kids. Who knows... Has anyone actually read his book?  The Flynn Effect is almost entirely due to an increased emphasis on abstract thinking over the past 100 years.  Before then, it just wasn't important, so people didn't bother to learn how to, for example, classify cats and dogs as mammals, rather than ranking them in practical usefulness and strength. A good answer. To which I'll add

Teaching standards have improved. 

The quality of educational literature has increased.

The environment is much more stimulating due to radio and television and so on. There are often mental exercises in morality, linguistic gains and so forth contained within the media.

There are fewer manual jobs which tend to switch your brain off esp with repetitive tasks.

And has been mentioned better diet and less lead

There are other things too!



 I had to scroll way to long to find the answer. 

This here is the answer!  That's about 80 years. Can you really measure evolutionary changes with just a couple generations? Under "Proposed explanations" you have this statement: *"The Flynn effect has been too rapid for genetic selection to be the cause"* With enough environmental pressure, maybe. [These insects](http://www.nature.com/news/evolution-sparks-silence-of-the-crickets-1.15323) evolved to be silent in 20 generations, because the chirping ones got eaten. I don't see that pressure with humans, though. That's pretty nifty!

I wouldn't call 20 a 'couple' of generations, though. Plus, their gene pool would have been smaller from population and geographical limitations and inbreeding.

Even with inbreeding alone (and I guess the social pressures that might lead to that happening) you can see [some exaggerated features](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Charles_II_of_Spain) in offspring typical of their lineage in only a few generations... but to what degree you could call this an evolutionary change, I am not fit to say. I've also heard that fish such as trout in lakes are becoming smaller and smaller since fishermen are pulling out the big ones, selecting for the small ones. It was probably a conserved trait during some time in their past when predation was (more) prevalent. New genes don't pop up that fast, typically. Yes, but I very much doubt that's what drives the Flynn effect.  More likely IQ measurement contains more information on education than it's supposed to, and education has definitely been getting better over time. People have deliberately domesticated foxes (albeit through selective breeding, not 'natural' evolutionary pressures) in just a few generations, which doesn't just change temperament but physical characteristics. 

http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC2763232/ This is not natural selection, and there is nowhere near the selection pressure on humans that there is on selectively-bred foxes. No, absolutely not. Unless you're talking about specific populations like Jews and Poles in central Europe circa 1938-1945, there hasn't been the sort of near-genocide evolutionary pressure necessary to select intelligence in single generations.

My guess is that lead additives to fuel have smoothed some of the nutritional and educational gains. No you cannot.  The Flynn effect, whatever it's causes (these are debated) is *not* attributed to genetic differences. It depends on the situation.  If half the population is dying before breeding, sure.  In modern populations where most people have a few kids, nah, it wouldn't happen so fast. Yes you can. Though I can't find anything in human development, likely because of how long we live; there's a famous experiment with breeding foxes that gets mentioned here all the time. It's very well documented that even evolutionary changes such as how an animal looks physically (shape of bones in their snout, retaining youthful attributes into adulthood, etc) and how it acts mentally such as temperament specifically can happen quite quickly. 

I think the thing is the brain is very complicated, and increasing its capacity is a very taxing thing biologically, and it's also very hard to breed for actual raw intellect rather than just one specific trait. But the last sentence is obviously speculation on my part. I unfortunately don't have a research study on that, and was unable to find one.  Artificial selection (breeding) is significantly faster than natural selection. Sure if we only allowed the most intelligent people to breed then we'd see results, but we aren't doing that. We could just be raising people to better understand the kind of things we test for. This was my thought, probably more likely that education has improved the way we approach the tests than us actually being smarter  Jim Flynn was my professor at university and this is one of his theories to explain it! He is the first to admit that iq tests are still quite narrow in scope despite all efforts Even the explanations section in the wiki article you linked don't say it is due to any evolutionary effects. I am amazed you are able to make the claim that the Flynn effect has any evolutionary basis. Yeah it actually says outright "The Flynn effect has been too rapid for genetic selection to be the cause." A logistic curve kinda suggests that some factor like nutrition is the more likely cause.  I can't think of an ethical way to test that hypothesis.

However, people don't become curious or insightful just from having a full belly.  I think we are getting a little better about recognizing the neuroplasticity of children.  You never learned faster than you did before you turned one year old.  In that period, you learned how to operate (most) of your own body as well as taught yourself the rudiments of language.  All this is facilitated by neurogenesis, a process which slows down dramatically as we mature. "[From 29 to 41 weeks post-conception, total brain tissue volume increases linearly at a rate of 22 ml/wk (Huppi et al., 1998)](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3844860/)." 

From my own recollection, I know that conventional childhood is usually very boring and intellectually unstimulating.  Schoolwork proceeds at a staggeringly slow pace.  As an adult, it is impossible for me to be as bored now as I was then, at least in any discrete unit of time.  This likely contributes to an empathy gap.

Adults simply don't have the resources to engage children at a pace that is natural to them.  Machines do, however, so it is up to us to make creations that illuminate their worlds in useful ways.  The difficulty is that adults will apportion such resources in ways that only make sense to adults.  Government contractors will meet specs (maybe) in an uninspired way, private companies will make profitable platforms, and artists will wander.  The usual, really. It seems that the Flynn effect is based on IQ tests and started around 1930, while I'm referring to a more broad, time-wise, increase in intelligence, in regards to diet. If we're talking about the last 10,000 years or so, it's hard to say. We have no measure of intelligence for that period. Even 200 years ago would be difficult to assess.  It can be argued that in less than 100 years intelligence has increased from the addition of iodine to salt. We do have one marker of how fast a highly successful gene can spread throughout a civilized population - [lactose tolerance](https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lactase_persistence).

Once animal domestication became a thing (~10,000 years ago), the ability to digest raw milk as an adult became a major advantage - access to a highly nutritious food source meant more and healthier kids, greater survival in famine. The selection pressure for it would be higher than for a mild increase in intelligence.

Today, ~80% of European descended people are lactose tolerant. Based on that, an educated guess can be made at how quickly an intelligence increasing gene would have spread; ie, probably not a lot, and definitely not within the span of the Flynn effect. One of the proposed explanations listed in that very article is nutritional and it seems like a pretty solid explanation, especially when there's a correlation between growth rate/height of humans which we do believe is directly related to better nutrition.

&gt; Improved nutrition is another possible explanation. Today's average adult from an industrialized nation is taller than a comparable adult of a century ago. That increase of stature, likely the result of general improvements of nutrition and health, has been at a rate of more than a centimeter per decade. Available data suggest that these gains have been accompanied by analogous increases of head size, and by an increase in the average size of the brain.[8][26] This argument had been thought to suffer the difficulty that groups who tend to be of smaller overall body size (e.g. women, or people of Asian ancestry) do not have lower average IQs. [9] Richard Lynn, however, claims that while people of East Asian origin may often have smaller bodies, they tend to have larger brains and higher IQs than average whites.[27] better nutrition, but also better health, often from simple hygiene practices: http://www.nytimes.com/2014/07/15/world/asia/poor-sanitation-in-india-may-afflict-well-fed-children-with-malnutrition.html?_r=0 I think that the most plausible explanation is that education just got better and schools just got longer. In my opinion that's the most important factor. Then, nutrition and environment conditions as a whole. 80 years (4-5 generations) is not a lot of time for evolutions to make some significant changes like these especially when there were positive conditions for people with jobs that don't require any intelligence to have lots of kids. "Intelligence" is supposed to be independent from training or education, which is how we gather "knowledge". Obviously we can't *test* for intelligence without education, and so those tests will be skewed by one's individual knowledge.  It is difficult to measure intelligence in the sense you are describing it. While there is a general acceptance that there is a trait (or set of traits) that we might call 'intelligence', as opposed to 'knowledge', actually measuring it is difficult and time-consuming.

It is also not terribly useful, and is not generally how intelligence tests have been used. The basic use of IQ tests is pre-selection--for classes (or levels of classes in schools--intelligence testing and IQ started with French school systems), or for training (such as deciding who the US military would train to be pilots or navigators during World War II). Prior knowledge is useful for gauging how people will achieve in education and training programmes, and in deciding what programmes people should be on.

It is usually more useful to think of them as 'aptitude tests'. 

This is fairly useful as a starting point: http://www.apa.org/monitor/feb03/intelligent.aspx I believe you can train people to be more intelligent through schooling as well. Teaching someone how to learn rather than cramming knowledge down their throats, as I like to put it. Wouldn't this be more to do with basic education and a more intelligence centered society in general? Perhaps due to the fact that progressively humans have valued education more and more, which is an institution that improves intelligent as well as knowledge.

The brain is like a muscle and society puts more and more emphasis on exercising it.

That is until recently, where not much has changed in terms of education. Some would even argue it's gone backwards depending on your country.

I refute the idea that it could be due to evolution. Evolution doesn't take place that rapidly and it sure as hell isn't so immediately widespread. In a recent [meta-analysis](http://pps.sagepub.com/content/10/3/282.full.pdf+html) of this (sorry, probably paywalled), the proposed explanations aren't really focused on evolutionary effects; I get the sense that the researchers in this field don't necessarily need such effects to account for the gains. That said, they aren't really sure what's going on with the Flynn effect--it has interesting patterns of geographical, demographic, generational, and temporal variation. More educated people do better on IQ tests on average though, which makes sense. Using the mind and being taught things teaches you how to learn and problem solve better.  It's also possible that being educated just teaches you how to do better on tests.  Evolution doesn't work on those time frames, so there has to be a reason why we would become more intelligent.

I would say education and diet have more to do with it than anything else. I don't think it was evolutionary pressure, but a function of education. The Flynn effect is a measurement of recent intelligence gains and is highly correlated with nutrition. I find it more likely that our education system was just getting more directed at the traits that correlate well with IQ testing.  

Logic, deduction, puzzle solving... etc.   parasitic worms can have a huge impact also  there was a study done in East Africa about whether sharing or issuing individual students textbooks made a difference
they found by accident that the lowest performing students were all infected with worms And it's extremely unlikely that biological evolution is driving the rise in raw IQ scores (note: that's not the same as intelligence). Unless you think there's some dramatic adaptive pressure to higher IQ, acting on very short timescales (i.e., within a single generation), there's something other than evolution at work. Societal changes, shrinking family sizes, a general increase in test-taking skills (because children take *way* more tests now than they used to) and longer school days are all *much* more likely factors than biological evolution. A lot of my understanding is that it's not intelligence is on the rise.  It's our practice of things that are traditionally measured when we mean "intelligence".  I.e. pattern recognition is very prevalent in video games or Internet use, and word games have becomes quite important in language studies (as opposed to rote memorization of rules ~100+ years ago).  These lead to better results on IQ scores, but not necessarily higher baseline intelligence.  Just more practice using it. A fair point further showing how little we actually understand about human intelligence. Implying that I'm **not** the pinnacle of human evolution?

You wouldn't!

Real talk: people are possibly more intelligent on average now due to less malnutrition? It's only a hypothesis, but it sounds plausible. There are so many theories, and most of them can't agree what "intelligence" actually is, so it's kind of hard to conclude anything. And good luck getting data on the intelligence of humans 10,000 years ago. &gt;It's not like we stopped evolving once you and I were born.

Evolution isn't like an invisible hand seeing what is best and selecting it. It's things like natural selection and selective breeding. Both of those, arguable, are not going in the direction of selecting for intelligence.

Average group scores have improved because we've done more for the extreme outliers (on the lower end), most through dealing with things like poor nutrition in infancy. However the average person the same situation has no reason to be more intelligent than generations before. Actually I have more the feeling it's going backwards for the general population, like in Idiocracy. I do not believe that there is. The Flynn effect looks to have stopped in the late 90s. Many countries are now seeing a slight decrease in intelligence. I dunno, personal opinion here, but after studying anthropology(Hominid evolution) for the past 5 years, and observing much of modern human behavior... I really have built up this inference of feeling like humans during the late pleistocene we're a lot smarter than the average person now.

Knowledge=/= intellect. I have a B.A. in anthropology. Humans clearly have more knowledge than we did back then. As far as needing intelligence to survive, I would agree that it was more useful 10,000 bp. However, there's just no way to tell where they fall on the IQ range. They could have been the smartest things on the planet, but still only have an 90 IQ. 
 We certainly have more knowledge now, but the requirement of understanding it vs then and now. It's a wildly different comparison.

Some of the things ancient humans did, we still just don't understand how they were aware of such things.

And this doesn't account for all the lost knowledge either.

Retention, understanding, and application of knowledge know at least considering Americans, sometimes I just don't understand how people managed to get along with their lives.

I mean something as simple as knowing the moon is a giant spacerock in the sky... I can't believe how many people are unaware of this. And that's something I knew I was taught as a kid.

Like I said this is more of a personal inference, but really seeing how much knowledge is out there and how close it is to just reach out and metaphorically grasp it, versus the amount of people who don't even try.

It's bewildering.

The amount of thought that someone has to apply now here in a first world setting, compared to the past, It really leaves me to wonder how different ancient people were in their thought processes compared to an average person now. Really? I had heard the opposite due to people who'd normally die out from stupidity are still able to breed because there isnt anything really out there to kill them for it in modern society. This is just what I've heard though, could totaly be wrong! If you have an article about that I'd love to read it.
 [deleted] That still requires differences in the reproduction rate.  There is natural selection going on around the world, because of differences in access to health care and healthy items (it will always be a bit better for some people).  And of course an even bigger factor is sexual selection.  It's just weird that if you had a time machine and went back 15,000 years ago ~10,000 years before written language was invented and nab a person. Bring them to our time, and after adjusting they'd be able to function like anyone else from now (more or less).  If they are 3 years old then yes, if they are 20? No way. Don't even need a time machine.  Just kidnap a tribal from the Amazon rainforest. If they are past a certain age the brain has already developed in a way that they will no longer function like the rest of us. We have had a development of better nutrition for children and young which could play a part in improving intelligence? Better access to fats, etc, at least to more people. There is at least *selection* for intelligence. It's now more important than physical strength, although that's a very slow change. Not even that slow. In Before the Dawn: Recovering the Lost History of Our Ancestors, Nicholas Wade discusses how human intelligence has evolved, and how quickly it can happen. He mentions the Ashkenazi Jews, who implicitly selected for intelligence because they were forced into non labor jobs. The transformation in just a few hundred years was obvious and startling. 

It's probably incorrect to think human intelligence was the same 10000 years ago as it is today. Our society and social structure selects for (among other things) intelligence.  Just because our society often rewards intelligence doesn't mean we're being selected for it in the evolutionary sense. http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/m/pubmed/11276907/

&gt;This paper argues that during human evolution, mate choice by both sexes focused increasingly on intelligence as a major heritable component of biological fitness... humans evolved an unusually high degree of interest in assessing each other's intelligence during courtship and other social interactions--and, consequently, a unique suite of highly g-loaded mental adaptations Does that not speak of ancient human evolution more than modern times, though?  They're really isn't though. You don't die if you're not smart (with the exception of the Darwin awards), and you're not more likely to have more children if you are. So there is effectively no evolutionary pressure in humans anymore. The thing is, knowledge isn't the only thing that evolved. You can be really clever, but if you only get to live until you're 25, and you spend a lot of time sick, recovering from sickness, hunting, gathering food, and basically just surviving, you also have far less time to devote to problem-solving, studying the world etc.

There are millions of people today who are clever, educated, trained at problem-solving, and paid so that they can spend 40 hours a week inventing things, and these people will do so during 35 years of their life. Access to knowledge is definitely a big advantage, but it's not even the only one. Assuming you made it past childhood, you could always expect to live to 50. Interestingly, life is going to be so complicated one day because of the accumulation of knowledge that the entire education system will be based around just getting up to speed on how society works. It's already past that point now for any room full of people  to comprehend the complexity of the world, but imagine life in 10,000 years. 

Right now we've got to learn how to use appliances, computers, transportation, local economies, sanitation practices, etc. After a few millenniums of progress, life is going to be so complicated that we'll spend decades just learning how to function. Yes, robots will assist us, but then you'll have to learn how to properly interface with a robot, etc.  Nah. society is already like that. I could build you a house but couldn't fix your car or write you a sound financial investment plan. Plus things that are important now will become obsolete. Just like how kids these days don't know how to use old technologies from the seventies. You only have to know things that actually matter in your day to day. No one knows how to make something as simple as a ballpoint pen. No one person knows how to create the plastic, brew the ink, mould the parts, assemble, distribute, and package a Bic pen. That's amazing.  So you get some oil and like cook it I guess and that will make plastic. Then you pour it in some kind of mold(?) and maybe blow some air in the middle to get that hole. Then do the same thing but smaller for the ink tube. For the metal tip, idk, cook some rocks (ore) until they become metal then pour that in some kind of mold(?) then poke a hole in the top with something pokey so the ink can come out. Then, take a tiny little ball of metal, maybe roll it on the table like silly putty to make it round then stick that in the metal tube you just made. For the ink just smush up some ash and water and pour it into the ink tube. Kill a horse and, um, do something with it to make glue, maybe cook the horse, then pour that on top of the ink to keep in there.

See, making a ballpoint pen would be easy peasy with our common knowledge.  Making a ballpoint pen would be easy, yes. You could hand carve it out of wood. But recreating the pens that exist now would be difficult, and impossible for one person to do.

As far as I understand, plastic injection molding is a phenomenally complex process with a staggeringly large number of variables that need to be tweaked to mass produce defect free parts. I would imagine creating the precursor plastic pellets is an equally difficult process, as is the mold design for the injection molding machine. That is just to make the barrel of the pen. Ball point pens often use tungsten carbide for the ball too, would one person have the knowledge to manufacture even that?



 I was being facetious. Just showing how even with the most basic understanding of how something so simple as a pen is put together, we would be lost without our current society.  This is something I've thought about. How do we make cars, they're so complex! We use machines of course. How do we make the machines that make the machines? Other machines?  I'll back up your point.  I'm a web applications developer, that means I make fancy websites with comparable complexity to Reddit and Gmail.  To do my job I write in programming languages like Python and Javascript.  These languages are implemented in lower level languages like C. I know a little C, but nowhere near enough to write a Python interpreter or a Javascript engine.  In turn, the C compiler had to first be written in some other language.  Eventually you get down to machine code that once upon a time was written by hand.  I know nothing about what's in the middle or any of the x86/x64 instruction sets, but that doesn't keep me from doing my job.

&amp;nbsp;

There are MANY, MANY "stacks" like this in the computing/information industry, and it requires specialists at every "layer". (Though some "layers" are rarely changed anymore, and so there aren't many specialists left that have intimate knowledge of how that part works.)

&amp;nbsp;

Releveant xkcd: https://xkcd.com/676/ &gt; In turn, the C compiler had to first be written in some other language.

Interestingly, the first C compiler was written in assembly on a DEC PDP-11 machine.  Just enough of the C compiler was written in assembly so it could "bootstrap", that is, compile a newer version of the C compiler that was rewritten in the C language itself. &gt; Though some "layers" are rarely changed anymore, and so there aren't many specialists left that have intimate knowledge of how that part works.

I don't think this is true for any piece of the stack still in use.   

* Intel has experts in x86 assembly who very well understand every nuance of every instruction, they use this knowledge to design new processors.  Down to what individual bits in each instruction mean what.

* It's becoming less common to write very much assembly language, but there are still cases when it;s needed.  If you peak at the code of an OS (like Linux) there's a fair among of assembly required in the initial boot stages, and in the areas that do context switches (between the OS and your program).

* GCC and CLang (C compilers) are still under active development.  They are written in C or C++ themselves, it's true they haven't been written in assembly in a long time.  The C and C++ language standards still get improvements/updates every few years.
* The rest of these you probably know:
 * Java still gets modifications/updates/etc from Oracle.
 * Google Chrome has forced a lot of modernization into the Javascript stack, which has caused the same type of progress in rivals Mozilla and Internet Explorer.  And of course there are the changes from HTML5....  I would imagine that if those "instruction sets" were written by hand many years ago it would be possible to make them more efficient today? And if they form the basic components of every program or website, wouldn't even a small improvement in those "basic layers" lead to a huge boost in efficiency for the whole program/website? 

I know nothing about computers btw so I probably have no idea what I'm talking about.  It's not that they were written by hand years ago and never changed at all. It's just automated now, or it is more convenient to leave it unchanged for X reasons.

Automated assembly oddly enough is less efficient, but it saves *a lot* of time for the programmer. Compilers produce reslly good code these days and very gew prople can actually write assembly that would be faster, and even when they do, they usually look at compiller output and improve it.

There's basically no point in hand tuned assembly for speed these days, unless you're on an embedded system with a crap compiler. Hand written assembly is pretty much only used for things you can't write in C because it's too specific to the machine you are running on (mostly low level OS stuff) Yes, you do make a good point. The old instruction sets are still the foundation, but [additions](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/X86_instruction_listings) are made all the time, and they're often a combination of the basic ones. However, we're not switching out the fundamental building blocks any time soon. That's job specialization, which has been that way for time immemorial already. 

I'm talking the basic functions of life around you. 5,000 years ago nobody needed to learn how a toilet works, how to use a toothbrush, wash their hands, lock a door, dial a phone, type, drive a car, operate appliances, use a vacuum cleaner, pay bills; the stuff that we all do day to day. Certainly they had other things that we don't do any longer, like de-bugging our bedding, but life has become far more complex to participate in. 

By age 5 in a hunter-gatherer society, you'd have pretty much learned everything you needed to participate. Everything else was just specializing your job skills like hunting, skinning, and when to eat which foods. 

Someday, life now will look quaint and uninvolved. but back then learning how to trap animals, prepare animals, how to tell the time of the day using the sun position. naviagtion (eg how to remember where plant that fruits once year will be in dense woods), how  to  create a spear, how to make cloths out of animal skins

people then had to be hunters, butchers, ctanners, habdashers, tailores, explorers, calendars, timepieces. all things we know rely on other people or to provide Yes as we accumulate more and more knowledge, a greater proportion of effort has to be spent teaching and learning.  I see more specialization and a drive to increase learning bandwidth. 10,000 years is a lot of time for humans. Im willing to bet our brains will be highly synced with technology possibly making knowledge acquisition and retention a far more efficient process  Life has been getting continually less complicated. 

We learn to use appliances INSTEAD OF how to do everything by hand. 

We learn to use computers INSTEAD OF crazy tedious mathematics. 

We learn to use transportation INSTEAD OF how to travel long distances without dying. 

We use complicated things to make our lives less complicated.

Compare e-mail with traditional post.  Probably incorrect.  One thing that's changed significantly is access to nourishment, which has made us (among other things) substantially taller than people 500 years ago, and honestly, even 50 years ago (the average American male is 30lb heavier, and one inch taller).

With the brain being the most metabolically active part of the body, it's pretty likely we're actually smarter too.

If the basis of your assumption is that natural selection wouldn't work that quickly on this time scale, you're right.  But mere selection pressure isn't the only thing going on.  Epigenetic modifiers are rampant, and absolutely operate on remarkably short timescales. On average yes. However, there are plenty of instances of sufficient nourishment in pretty much all of history.

So to assume that everyone lacked nourishment is likely incorrect as well. I think it's plausible that human intelligence has not increased on average in the last 10,000 years (or even decreased), but with so many more people around, the top 1 million smartest humans are certainly smarter now than they were 10,000 years ago. And those are the ones who make modern discoveries, not the average guys. &gt; humans haven't gotten any smarter

I read somewhere that our IQ scale has to be adjusted periodically because the average keeps increasing (the "rule" is that the average must be 100; if the average has increased to, say, 105 then the scoring must be adjusted). Is that information incorrect, or are you talking about a standard of "smart" outside IQ? There's a discussion of the Flynn effect elsewhere in the thread. Main conclusions seem to be that we *might* just be getting better at taking IQ tests, because the modern world encourages (and creates more opportunities to practice) the kind of abstract thinking that does well on IQ tests. 

Or it might be a result of better nutrition, but the linear trend would be odd if it's nutrition-based, since nutrition hasn't improved in a strictly linear way. Ah, I see. That makes sense.

How do we know ("conclude"?) that humans haven't gotten any smarter, btw?  &gt;  People still expiremented and were able to learn just as now. It's not a giant leap to discover and ponder that if a soft metal like substance can be melted at a lower temperature, that a harder metal like substance might melt if you made it hotter. 

I wish a large swathe of Reddit science fans would understand this truth as well. 

Before the codified scientific method people still developed technology and skills through trial and error and good guesswork. 

So many people seem to think that everything that ever happens everywhere is "science" and somehow confuse "science" and "reality" and seem to forget what the "scientific method" is at its most basic level. 

 For sure. At base, the advent of the scientific method was just writing down and formalizing a pattern that had been in use independently by a LOT of people for a long time. It's more of a description than a discovery. whilst not getting any smarter is conventional opinion, there are anthropologists who dispute that hypothesis, and in fact we don't really actually have a consensus or accurate way of determining this at current. Intelligence isn't 100% genetic and it has been improving. Probably due to nutrition and social/cultural factors  [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] unsure. there are extraordinarily  strong arguments that our intelligence is shaped/formed by language.  &gt;Add to this that in 10,000+ years, humans haven't gotten any smarter.

Do we really not believe that changes in nutrition in the last 10,000 years have not made us any smarter? Following the correlation between height, nutrition, and mental capacity; hunter gatherers 11000 years ago were on average 5'9" tall for males (according to skeletons found in Greece and Turkey). 

Switching to super large groups and staying in one place by farming is what actually led to the malnutrition. The diet got less varied and one bad crop year was detrimental to the society. This peaked about 3000 years ago when the average male went down to 5'3". 

Really, it's taken humans the last 8000 years to make agriculture work well enough to get us back up to a 5'9" average.  

So no. We probably weren't any dumber 10,000 ago, because we were the same height back then as we are now. 3000 years ago may have been a different story. Stream worn pebbles of [hematite](http://thumbs.dreamstime.com/z/hematite-pebbles-closeup-raw-iron-oxide-over-clear-reflexive-surface-33663471.jpg) (iron) and [casiterite](http://www.minerals.net/MineralImages/cassiterite-stream-tin-durango-mexico.jpg) (tin) look almost identical to each other. So do the crystals of [hematite](http://www.allipacha.com/store/images/q2433.JPG) and [casiterite](http://webmineral.com/specimens/photos/Cassiterite.jpg).  Doesn't Peat burn super good and it's found in bogs. It's not that much of a stretch to assume at some point they had bog ore in with the peat. peat has about half the btu that charcoal does, and generally it is thought that charcoal was used to first smelt iron, though archaeologists are not certain on this.
however bog ore was indeed considered to be an early source of the ore.  Is there a reason the addition of iron ore is thought to be accidental rather than a result of curiosity? Bog ore is far more difficult to smelt than regular weathered ore outcrops ('gossan hat') found on top of bedded ores. The presence of phosphorous and sulphur can 'poison' the reduction process, hydroxides in bog ore require more energy to reduce than regular oxides, and the phosphorous from the ore can enter the iron metal produced, and make it 'cold-short' or brittle at low temperatures which makes it harder to work, particularly in early Iron Age contexts where people were likely relying more on cold-working (as they did with bronze objects) than they would later as smithing developed.

I would say brightly-coloured, weathered surface outcrops were likely the first ore bodies exploited for iron production. Are there any famous infrastructures or weapons made from meteoric ore? Tons - check out the [Inuit cultures who used meteoric iron to great affect](http://www.britishmuseum.org/explore/highlights/highlight_objects/loan_in/l/lance_with_a_blade_made_from_m.aspx). In terms of earlier cultures, we are uncovering more and more evidence of use of meteoritic iron prior to the use of smelted iron. Are there any good books in this history of smelting and ore use? &gt;Well, people had thousands of years of bronze smelting before anyone figure out how to get iron from ore.

This is actually incorrect.  [David W. Anthony cites examples of simple forged iron objects in *copper age* graves on the Pontic- Caspian Steppe.](http://www.amazon.com/The-Horse-Wheel-Language-Bronze-Age/dp/069114818X)  I don't recall if the finds were his own, but he is an archaeologist specializing in that area.  Metallurgical analysis shows that the objects were smelted from local ore, which is found near copper ore.

Iron found no practical application for thousands of years, but the rudiments of smelting and hot forging were discovered in that location, and may well have been discovered in others.  The purest iron ores are noticeable- hematite is greyish silver, and pyrite (fool;s gold) forms perfect cubes of gold in rock formations in sedimentary, metamorphic, and igneous rock types.  Both of those ores look metallic, and pyrite resembles chalcopyrite- a copper bearing mineral that would have been particularly valuable in the chalcolithic, because it produces copper with strong traces of arsenic, which harden it into a crude bronze.

The people of the Pontic Caspian Steppe did not forget iron working because they died out. After their experiments with iron, they became the first group to domesticate the horse, their genes and their Indo- European language dominate from North India to Ireland. yeah in the desert in africa for example there are large balls randomly scattered that are apparently iron, many too large to carry (meteors)

they should have figured they are a type of metal and just tried to melt it like other metals Not only is meteoritic iron rare, it is also notoriously hard to forge  due to its high nickel content. A lot of the evidence of a development connection between meteoritic and terrestrial iron extraction is based on the appearance of ancient Egyptian and Hittite terminology for 'iron from the sky' around the Late Bronze Age. However, by that stage, smelted iron was clearly in the archaeological record. The situation is complicated by the past incorrect use of bulk chemical analysis of early iron objects and that, basically, wherever there was a high-nickel outcome, it was assumed the iron was meteoritic. You can only really be sure an object is meteoritic is if you look at it metallographically and find the classic [Windmanstaetten] (https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Widmanst%C3%A4tten_pattern) patterning.    Iron doesn't need to be melted (1536 C) to be extracted. You can reduce iron ore in a solid state between 800 to 1,050 C depending on the composition of the ore. This is not much higher than temperatures needed for copper production. That's a clue in terms of the evolution of iron production. To cut a long story short, iron is often a by-product of copper reduction processes (in the form of an iron-silicon mix called fayalite) so the theories are that the skills of extractive metallurgy in copper opened the door for iron extraction. One of the nicest all round books on this is the seminal work by R. F. Tylecote (1992) A History of Metallurgy. 
 Just started reading it. Thanks for the tip. Nicely written. It'll keep me out of trouble for a couple of weeks. This is the only informed and believable answer here.  All the top posts are not addressing the fact that when you smelt copper you are separating out the molten copper form the impurities but when you smelt iron you are melting away the impurities (slag) to keep the solid "bloom". Your explanation ties these two technologies together in a credible way. You're right, you couldn't stumble on iron smelting by accident. The extremely high temperatures and high carbon monoxide partial pressure necessary to reduce iron oxides (the easiest reducible iron ore) are not something you can create in a bonfire. You have to have a container, such as a furnace. 

However, when you break it down to its most basic, iron smelting is not that different from copper smelting, which people were already doing well. Iron smelting in Africa is often extremely elaborated (particularly for performance to western ethnographers), so don't read too much into that documentary. You can smelt iron with wood, rather than special fuels, and you can use pigments such as ochre as ore, which we know people were using for substantial periods of time before they ever got around to smelting metals. Critically, you can also use the same kind of set up as people used for copper smelting (which likely also originated in the smelting of brightly coloured material like malachite) - very small, very low profile, low impact furnaces.

Basically, follow the same pattern for copper smelting, only add more fuel, make sure your furnace has a bit more in the way of walls to hold in the heat, and pump your bellows harder for a bit longer, and you can smelt iron.

Edit - and I realise that this is going to get lost miles down in the comment thread, but I basically just got my PhD in early iron smelting two weeks ago, so if anyone does have more questions regarding the chemistry and physics of iron smelting, I am all over that :) I have a question. Were people in the North and South Americas smelting iron and using it before Columbus came over? Here's a question: How many independent inventions of iron smelting were there likely to have been? I know some Africans skipped the bronze age and went right to iron, very early on.

Furnaces fired with dried grass no less. Could you just link your thesis? People didn't start with Iron, the first metal used was copper, which has a much lower melting temperature.

Nothing official, but it's speculated that when using [malachite](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_OrBw4L490Y) as stones in a fire ring, people were able to recognize the melted result as a malleable substance.


Once metallurgy was discovered, a LOT of trial and error developed bronze, then iron, then steel, then modern alloys. Don't forget that ancient people had already known what iron looked like for a long time before they started smelting it themselves, from meteoric iron. There was never enough to do anything with on a large enough scale, but the stuff was definitely known When I first heard about meteoric iron, I imagined some rich people might collect them and melt them into a stronger sword than what others were able to make. I don't even know if swords and iron fit when it comes to the historical timelines of metallurgy and warfare, but would that have been possible? Were there ever enough meteoric iron available to one rich person to be able to melt it into something superior to what others were able to attain? Obviously we don't know for sure, but it would fit. A weapon made out of pieces of nickel-iron meteorite would be so much better than a copper or bronze weapon (or one made out of bloomery iron, for that matter) that it wouldn't be a stretch for the weapon's owner to start making claims about its magic properties. This would only be something a particularly rich leader would be able to afford, though. there's very little meteoric iron to work with, a weapon made from the stuff would've been unbelievably valuable Iron wasnt completely superior to bronze for what it was being used for at the time, for one thing I believe it was easier to put a razor edge on.  

Long after the standard roman legionaire went to iron weaopns the officers kept their bronze swords. Bronze was superior to *smelted* iron, but that's because the smelting processes for iron were really inefficient for a very long time. Lots of slag inclusions in an iron sword would make it less sturdy than a bronze sword under some circumstances. The advantage of iron weapons over bronze was the ability to make a whole lot of reasonably good quality swords or whatever for much less effort than bronze weapons. It was a logistic thing rather than material

But anyway we're talking about meteoric iron, which is damn near pure. Pure iron is quite a bit harder than bronze, and while it wouldn't probably look like much compared to later steel weapons, a meteoric iron sword would be a remarkably effective thing I can just imagine the Roman officers saying "Yeah those new ferrous swords are fine for the legions, we can make a bunch of them cheaply and quickly and that's important to continue to spread Gloria Romana.  But I'm going to stick with the tried and true bronze.  They take *real* craftsmanship, you know?  I mean look at this -- look at the quality of that work!  You don't see that with the ferrite weapons.  They just don't make them like they used to, no ~~sir~~ domina." Probably considering there have many swords in legend pervasive to many cultures. Like legend of King Arthur pulling the sword from stone, the swords aren't run of the mill type. Eastern culture also describes swords of legend in their history used by heroes or generals and the like.  There's this manga that goes on a tangent to speculate that the Yamato people that invaded ancient Japan were early adopters of meteoric iron.
http://bato.to/comic/_/comics/the-legendary-musings-of-professor-munakata-r11095 Basically people were putting things in and around fire for millennia upon millennia and been curious and industrious and creative with whatever product came out.   And they still are! I throw things in the fire all the time to see what happens! Basically, we have the same problem now:


We know very well how to refine aluminum using electrolysis. In principle, the same method can be used on titanium. Yet it's too hot and dangerous on a big industrial scale. Some time in the future, titanium will be widely used everywhere since it combines the low weight of aluminum with the strength of iron.
  Will the fundamental laws of physics be different in the future? Won't the process still be too hot and dangerous? Whether something is "too hot and dangerous" is typically a question of engineering, not of physics. Physics things such as materials science that can lead to things like ceramic insulators, have a significant part to play was well, so it isn't pure engineering. 
High level engineering requires a solid understanding of the underlying physics to be used. 
For this reason if say you did a mechanical engineering degree you would likely learn about a bunch of stuff related to physics such as Classical mechanics, thermodynamics, the aforementioned materials science, the various physics elements of structural mechanics and the physics behind electricity....

So really it is a question of both, and if you suggest it is not a question of physics, you will get very poorly trained engineers.

I know a couple of engineers and they know certain areas of physics very well to do their jobs. I agree. What I meant to suggest is that engineers need to know much *more* than the fundamental laws of physics to answer questions like "is this too hot and dangerous on a big industrial scale?" In some ways, engineers need to understand parts of physics more deeply than physicists, because they need to use it to answer questions that physicists don't bother with.

Maybe a better phrasing is to say that it's typically a question of engineering, not *just* of physics. No but the materials and techniques we use/have access to may have changed.

i.e. The use of tungsten as a cutting tool was a huge boon in mass production even though the tools didn't necessarily change. 

Similar material changes may make other processes safer/allow reaction chambers to operate at higher temperatures. We might have better materials to make it less dangerous, or develop better processes, or automate more of it so you have less people around.  Of course, the laws of physics will be the same as we haven't detected any change of the physics constants.

But technology advances. At the beginning of the 19th century, aluminum was almost impossible to extract and it was more expensive than gold. With technology from the 1910s, a rocket motor able to put something in orbit would have been nearly impossible. Too hot and dangerous depends on the available technology. Is there enough available for such widespread use? Early smelting of copper and iron likely had little to do with melting, as oxides of both were reduced in solid-state reactions by proximity to charcoal/carbon monoxide within containers such as crucibles or furnaces. Are there any good books on the history of ore and smelting? I find it funny that when a discussion like this occurs, bronze is mentioned, but only in passing. Smelting bronze is more difficult, as not only do you have to have the correct amounts of tin and copper, but you would have had to figured out how to smelt it from Cassiterite.

Just a little quirk in the human progression. Even worse for bronze. Most early bronze wasn't copper-tin it was copper alloyed with arsenic which was smelted in one step using the correct combination of minerals.  More amusing, brass another alloy was also produced in one step smelting copper and zinc ores together.

One can also mention the old technique for winning silver from silver bearing lead ore. First smelt the lead, this is actually easy.  Then one melts the lead in a crucible made of ground bone. The lead chemically combines with the calcium phosphate in the bone leaving a small hunk of silver behind. The remained is then smelted yet again to recover the lead.

So yeah, in someways iron production is simple compared to other processes that were developed and used. And iron ore being heavy, it's not that hard to see early metal smiths taking an interest in it. Likely that the difference is, if you have high grade copper ore, it takes less fuel to smelt copper and tin to make bronze. Once that became scarce Iron becomes more attractive. And small deposits of Iron ore are actually common everywhere.
 Bronze can be made by co-smelting tin and copper ores, and probably was at the beginning. See also aresenical-copper, a very nice Bronze Age metal which doesn't get much attention but was beautiful and mechanically superior than low-tin bronze.  That's how it often works. Discover something crazy complex, then find easier way to do it. This is a bit theoretical, but it is interesting. The Bronze Age saw the use of - you guessed it - bronze. This is an alloy typically make with 90% copper and 10% tin, though back then there were lots of variants. The tin was very hard to get access to, as a result bronze could only be acquired from long distances for most people. This caused very centralized power, particularly in the East Mediterranean. 

That area seems to have been hit with a nasty cold spell with sent migrants invading lands (re: Sea People) and causing lots of destruction. Cities were abandoned, languages lost, and writing forgotten in many areas. Greece was strongly affected - it underwent a dark age that lasted from 300 to 400 years. 

Iron, unlike tin, is often locally available. Early iron wasn't as good as bronze, but with the trade networks shattered beggars could have been choosers. So there was focus on iron working and once folks realized that a bit of carbon makes a strong alloy, then the iron ages were off. And whereas before the world was typified by mercantile kings, now cities like Athens, Sparta, and Rome could arm and defend themselves, arguably setting the stage for new government types. 

Tl;dr people lost access to bronze, so they settled for the next best thing, which then became the best thing.  What is the name of the documentary and what channel / site did you see it on? Thanks  I wouldn't put it past 'em. [The neanderthals invented the first small scale industrial process.](http://www.pbs.org/wgbh/nova/evolution/neanderthal-superglue.html)

How'd someone get the idea to put ore in a fire and get it really hot? Well, empirically speaking, it isn't that hard to notice the fact that light gusts of wind can make a fire glow brighter. In fact the method of breathing on tinder to get a fire going is quite basic, foundational knowledge for fire starting. Perhaps an ancient person noticed that as fires are maintained for a while, certain rocks present in a fire pit become discolored or deformed. It's not a big leap to imagine that someone might attempt to augment the process, maybe out of curiosity, shits and giggles, or perhaps as a means to create and trade odd trinkets.

Curiosity and profit motive are inherent principles of human behavior, not to be underestimated in the past or the present.

Edit: typos I agree. It's not too big a leap to assume that somebody stumbled across something strange happening to iron ore, got curious and eventually figured out that it may have something to do with heat. From then on, it's "only" a matter of technical advancement. Another thing to consider is that firing pottery also takes days of extreme high temperatures, and pottery has been around for thousands and thousands of years. So they were already doing this for some stuff so not as much of a long shot for them to play with metal too. I think this goes to the nature of discovery, not man's genetic potential one way or the other, 3 factors beng critical, first, when man lived more on the edge from a food stand point, he delved less into experimentation and focused on production with known methods and materials, secondly, invention usually breaks out simaltanously (roughly) in different geographies because some other change has made the 2nd invention -- now much more likely, and finally, man is almost certainly needs driven, so as the population grew, it's needs did - and this drives innovation, but before recent times, these population surges were more modest and drove change slower. Even so, the first million person city; Rome, was among history's most innovative ever. I don't remember where, but I read someone speculating once that iron might have been accidentally smelted for the first time when someone was firing pottery. I don't know if anyone would ever fire pottery at that high of a temperature. Then again, I did read it somewhere, so it must be true.  Pottery has to be fired at high temperatures for a long time. At that point one might only need powdered iron ore tossed in to get iron. Powdered iron ore might have been something potteries would use in a mix for color. The pot would have already been surrounded with charcoal needed to reduce the iron. 

 Yep, pottery is fired as high as 2500 Celsius, more than enough to melt iron, and if I recall correctly, iron oxides can be added for a brick red colour. Yes, other metals were smelted before iron that refine at much lower temperatures.  The process could have been discovered from perhaps a rock of copper ore used in a fire surround.  We couldn't smelt aluminum until very recently.  When it first became available it was used in high end jewelry. It was a trail of breadcrumbs type situation. Gold is easy to melt and hammer and is found not only pure but also in situations where it can easily be melted out of rock. Copper and tin to make brass required more heat and alloying. Iron was a step beyond that. With every step mankind gained immense benefits and were pushed to further refine their techniques. Trial and error comes a lot easier when you already have a furnace, a fire, and bellows. Iron Age came after Bronze Age.

The people who discovered iron already knew how to make tools and weapons out of other, easier melted metals. It was not as much of a breakthrough as figuring out that some rocks melt with heat and can be poured into molds. I am part of a group called the Darc Ages Reenactment Company. Www.Darkcompany.ca and we regularly smelt iron from ore in Viking age barrel smelters that are much smaller than the African smelters. Bog ore can be nodules as well as iron rich mud and both smelt into iron equally. Size of smelter is not a factor but proportions of tuyere diameter, charcoal size and diameter of the   [deleted] [deleted] The Bessemer Converter was used to produce steel from iron though, not iron from iron ore.

 Smelting heat absolutely was a factor. The bloomery process came about because most people in most places couldn't get a fire hot enough to properly separate the slag from the iron, so they had to drip the iron out of the ore bit by bit, which made the end result really impure.

I'd also disagree that the Bessemer process was the first time humans were able to make good steel. The crucible steel process is probably around 1500 years old and results in steel as good as the stuff made today. Modernish blast furnaces don't really make better steel than the small-batch crucible stuff, but they do allow for production of much greater quantity with better opportunities for quality control Crucible isn't as good as modern steel. By ancient standards its great but it doesn't compare to powder metallurgy or even basic oxygen process steel. This is not a case where they don't make it like they used to. Steel has consistently improved as time has gone on and saying modern steel is only as good as ancient crucible is a massive disservice to the scientists who have made the massive leaps in materials science we take for granted.  Yeah I overstated my case, I just took exception to the claim that good steel didn't exist till the 1850s iron does exist naturally as in its elemental, oxide, and alloyed forms, which allowed humanity to come to understand its natural properties. combined with skills gained from other metalworking disciplines, and it's not that crazy.  Most discoveries from long ago were done by accident. They started very simple, and like other people already commented, they were already smelting bronze before being able to smelt iron. So the chances are that during smelting of bronze somehow by accident iron was used, too. The person responsible realized that and discovered that iron can be smelted, too.

He then started to experiment with it and shared his discovery. More people used iron, found out its usefulness and started to improve the way it was refined. many discoveries are still reached by accident, such as post it note glue, the discovery of penicillin, teflon, microwaves as used in ovens, vulcanised rubber, Viagra and how you can make graphene by peeling sellotape of graphite for example :)
 Never said it was otherwise, but nowadays many discoveries are made after years of research, because of that I can't say whether most are by accident or not. never said that you said otherwise, and didn't mean to imply that you thought that was the case if it came out that way, I just wanted to share some cool accidental modern discoveries that I had heard about :) Crap sumiited acidentally. The proportions for the smelter and how fuel and ore are added are as important as the temperature because creating the zone where the reduction zone is created is controlled in part by these things. My wild ass guess of where it evolved from was when pottery started using glazes that had iron in it because a kiln could create the conditions for reduction reactions.   [deleted] Am I allowed to expand on the question? Lets say we had a flame that was 20C, would we be able to light ourselves on fire and just be warm instead of burning to death? I'm gonna say no because of ignition points. For you to be lit on fire it would have to reach the ignition temperature of skin.

Now, you might be able to cover yourself in whatever burns at 20 C and that would work. So you're saying that the clothes from the Hunger Games aren't so far fetched? Lol if there was a material or liquid that could burn at that low of a temperature than no. Since fire is just a plasma of excited electrons it has no set temperature Except, the color of the fire is an indication of the temperature.  Low temp fires would not have glowing plasma.  

I believe red and yellow flames are all about the same temp.  That's how temp guns work.

Now, someone will probably shoot me down. I think you're kind of right, but it's important to point out also that color does not always indicate temperature. Generally, *radiative* heat I believe is better characterized by color ( we are generally used to thinking of things in these terms since we see things like stoves and coals, and we know phrases like "white hot"). 
I think the difference is that flames are just ionized gases, it's a chemical reaction going on. So color is one indicator in a similar gas or the same gas, perhaps, but the material that is burning is also very important. Remember, copper burns green!

[Here is a table of flame temperatures on wikipedia to show this](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Flame#Common_flame_temperatures)

To answer this thread if someone sees this, [cool flame temp on wiki](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cool_flame), which says

&gt;One of the lowest CFTs (80 C) was reported for a C2H5OC2H5 + O2 + N2 mixture at 300 mmHg (40 kPa)

neat! 40 kPa is about 1/3rd of Earth's atmosphere, isn't it? There or there abouts. It's a bit higher than the athmospheric pressure at the summit of Everest. The difference is a very hot object is radiating like a [black body] ( http://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Black_body).  It's a very broadband emission spectrum with a peak that moves towards shorter wavelengths as the object gets hotter.  That's why it goes from red to blue as it heats up.

Atomic emission spectra is different, however.  When you get an atom REALLY hot, that added energy can bump an election up to an excited state.  The number of possible states and the energy required to make that transition (the band gap) is quantized and fixed (ignoring line broadening) by quantum mechanics.  When the election returns to it's ground state, it releases a photon with an energy equivalent to the band gap energy.  This produces a very narrow spectra that is unique to the element (this is how atomic emission spectroscopy and lasers work) and is the reason different elements "burn" different colors.

Interestingly enough, the range of colors you see in a candle flame isn't plasma.  It's hot soot particles radiating like black bodies.  The blue edge of the flame is the point where the burning gas has cooled enough for soot particles to start to form.  As the move away from the burning wick, they radiate heat and cool, producing the full spectrum down to yellow.

If you look at a clean burning flame like one from a well tuned torch, it's blueish colored which is from the emission spectra of diatomic carbon radicals (called swan bands) But.. holding copper in a bunsen burner's flame produces a green flame... surely the green color is not because of temperature (since green blackbody radiation would be a very narrow band, and since the bunsen flame is the same temp with or without copper) Exactly, the colour of flame is caused by electrons jumping down shells and releasing particular wavelengths of light. So you can use it to tell what materials are in the reaction but not their temps. Or, if you have a known material, then you can tell the temp of the fire by the colour. Or with imperfect data of both constitution and change in enthalpy you can find the best regions of the system's probability space by the color. (i.e. physical spectroscopy) The green of burning copper is due to emission lines from ionized gas. 

It's actually not possible for a blackbody to glow green; it can have *peak emission* in the green portion of the spectrum, but because it spreads so far to the red and blue it will appear white to human eyes.

However, much of an everyday fire's light is in fact due to blackbody radiation from hot soot particles. I thought green stars existed? And that starlight was blackbody radiation. they do. They just don't look green. [The sun is a green star.](http://blogs.discovermagazine.com/badastronomy/2008/07/29/why-are-there-no-green-stars/#.VW4Xu89VhHw)  I think in this case you have an element giving off a specific color when it is excited and is out shining the other heat signatures.  
Some elements give off specific wavelengths because of the structure of their electron shells.  There is a specific energy level corresponding to a wavelength of a photon when the electron drops to a lower orbital.  This is a different process than just heating up a piece of iron.
I admit it muddies the water quite a bit. Those flames are due to oxygen reactions.  

Fire doesn't require oxygen.  Just a strong oxidizing substance.  Fires that we are familiar with all involve oxygen because our atmosphere is ~20% oxygen.  But fluorine or chlorine can produce flame even in the absence of oxygen and the colors would be different at different temperatures.   Don't temp guns work by gauging the wavelength of IR light given off by things, the part of light with heat information in it? There's no particular part of the spectrum which contains the "heat information", rather, hot things tend to follow the [black-body radiation curve](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Black-body_radiation). It just so happens that at the temperatures which temp guns are measuring, most of the light that is emitted is in the IR part of the spectrum. As you get hotter, you get more and more light from the visible spectrum emitted IR is a range of wavelengths of light. If something gets hot enough, the wavelengths it emits get shorter and enter the visible spectrum, making it glow. The entire spectrum actually is involved in "heat information."  Heat transfer occurs regardless of visible spectrum, but the amount of energy involved correlates to where it is on the spectrum.  For example you can clearly see that steel is hot when it is glowing red or orange.  At smaller wavelengths there is more energy, so no its not just IR light that produces heat. Not true. Fire *can* become a plasma but for the most part it is just a mixture of hot gases that are emitting light. 

http://chemistry.about.com/od/chemistryfaqs/f/firechemistry.htm Whats a plasma? when gases heat up they eventually reach a point where their atoms are moving too quickly for electrons to remain in stable orbitals. These electrons begin to bounce around between atoms and as they fall down an energy level, they emit photons. plasmas are actually very common, in fluorescent lights, fire, sparks, and many other things I can't be bothered to enumerate. also plasmas can be influenced by magnetic fields.  They weren't burning at a low temperature, they were burning at a normal temperature with fireproofing. You see the same thing with stuntmen in real life. Remember the low-light part. She's standing under some heavy lights on that stage. But then of course they have some crazy hologram tech so why not It is far fetched because while you could cover yourself in flame, it wouldn't be visible.

The reason fire is visible is because it is giving off blackbody radiation that falls in the visible spectrum. Flame at 20C wouldn't be visible in normal conditions.  I wouldn't recommend it, but I've lit my hand on fire with rubbing alcohol. It gets hot and burns after a little bit, but you can light yourself on fire for a few seconds. I recall doing something with a lighter when I was high a long time ago where you let the vapor collect in a closed fist and then light it was kind of cool but I was too high to remember specifics  Have you ever seen a Rammstien concert? While there would technically be flames, you'd have to be in a very dark room to see them. So no. I would be concerned with the availability of oxygen for the purpose of breathing if you were to completely cover yourself.  That's a problem you'll have to face when you get there. But definitely an issue worth considering [deleted] So is this why alcohol can flame but not burn your skin, as it is at a lower temp than what your skin combusts at?
 Alcohol evaporates so readily that as it burns, the evaporation provides a cooling effect for the remaining liquid that you feel as being cold. Indy racers can get burned by alcohol fires if they crash and the fuel gets on them.  From what I can tell it doesn't look fun. http://www.liveleak.com/view?i=e9e_1288624546 The peak flame temperature of ethanol is 1,920 degrees Celsius (3,488 degrees Fahrenheit). So i wouldn't recommend covering yourself it ;).

The reason why you don't usually get burns when you ignite a small amount of alcohol on your skin is because this happens so fast! Poof and it's gone, not enough time for your skin to 'notice'. 

 the other big reason is that heat travels upwards. turn your hand over. you'll notice real quick.  Heat damage to the skin does not require the skin to ignite. Skin can burn at 45 degrees C, if it is left exposed to a heat source for a long time.

A friend of mine once fell asleep drunk somehow in contact with the radiator next to his bed. He suffered first degree burns through lying on it overnight. What if it was something like alcohol that burns on you not burn you? I know there are words to describe the difference between the two. anybody who hes ever gone camping knows how wonderful it would be to be able to to take the fire with you to your tent and cozy up with it, like a fire blanket I have lit my hand on fire before with rubbing alcohol. As I understand it, the reason I was not burned was that the alcohol burned off too quickly, not that it was not hot enough to burn I've accidentally poured burning mixtures of alcohol and water on myself without sustaining any injuries.  It didn't feel comfortable, but it didn't leave a mark when I put it out.  You can make an alcohol lamp yourself, and see that the wick doesn't burn even though the flame is hot.  The reason for this is that the fuel loses heat when it evaporates which cancels out the heat that's added to it from the flame.  So the heat is all channeled away from the wick or your skin or whatever by the flame without burning it.

To answer your question, no, even if you had a cool flame burning on you, you'd still have to inhale its vapors, which would be low in oxygen, quite hot, and possibly containing carbon monoxide or something more exotic depending on the fuel. Would an 80C flame sink in a 90C room?

EDIT: I guess it wouldn't *cool* the air, so probably not. But would it be the same temperature as the air around it, then, and just kind of radiate outward as if it were in zero gravity? Would it not be able to keep going because of inability to generate convection? 

 No, a flame is caused by an exothermic reaction, meaning it releases heat. So if you were to light such a candle in a hot room, it would only make the room hotter (and of course, the flame would be hottest of all).  &gt; (and of course, the flame would be hottest of all).

Wait, are you saying that an 80C flame would still be hotter than a 90C room? If you moved an 80C flame in to a 90C room, it wouldn't measure 80C any more, so no.
 Obviously. A flame can't cool the room after all.

A flame doesn't really have a temperature exactly, it just releases energy. The temperature depends on what temperature the fuel started at, and how fast you cool it.

To make an 80 degree flame they probably start with cryogenic fuel and oxygen. So if you're in the Antarctic in the dead of winter at -85C, would you be able to light yourself on fire which would negate the extreme temperatures and keep you at a more equatorial (but survivable) temperature? No because 85C is nothing to a flame that can burn at hundreds of degrees.

If you had a flame that burned at 120C at room temperature, then that might work. But not yourself! Human skin does not burn at that low a temperature. The flame being 80C depends a lot on what environment it is lit in.

The same flame would be a lot cooler in space vs a 21C room.  If density is higher, yes  Source for the 80C experiment?  I believe it was [this](http://pubs.rsc.org/en/Content/ArticleLanding/1992/FT/ft9928803153#!divAbstract) article.  A couple notes as to how they achieved this:  

*  This is a plasma assisted ignition (think, shooting single O atoms into the flow).  This is highly active and promotes ignition even when auto-ignition would not occur 
*  DME has very active low temperature chemistry  
*  Low pressures (they mention up to half an atmosphere, but most are at ~72 torr)  
*  Incredibly long (in terms of practical combustion) residence times in the combustor, up to 6s vs milliseconds in practical applications

Why this is important:  

*  People have been studying using plasma to assist/stabilize ignition in newer engines, especially at very fuel lean / low temperature / high flow speed conditions which is the way most new combustion ideas seem to be heading This explains a cool phenomenon I saw while in the army. I was waring night vision goggles and noticed you could see "invisible" flames sticking out of our tent's chimney. These flames were completely invisible with your eyes alone, even in the pitch black night. It is my understanding that night vision goggles merely amplify the light available, so I guess that's why.  It was most likely just hot exhaust gas, not reactive fire proper. all matter produces black body radiation at a function of temperature, where wavelength decreases with temperature, going from IR up the visible spectrum and then ultraviolet. Worth noting that by IR i really mean everything below red, as we frequently use this in astronomy to look at very cold things in X-ray and radio frequencies, and we look at hot things all the way up into Gamma. Good night vision goggles can pick up on IR light or at least to some extent. Moreover, any light sensor can pick up on IR light, you can test this with your phone and a TV remote, point the remote at your camera and press a button, you'll see a purple-white light. normally cameras use a filter to try to mitigate this effect as it would cast weird shadows and make pictures look washed out, but no filter blocks all of the IR light, and most likely the high gain on the night vision goggles sensor picks up this light that makes it through the filter; perhaps they don't even use a filter as this would make sense and also probably be cheaper.  Would an 80 flame ignite, say, a piece of paper? Or would it have to get to its ignition temperature? So now i have to be scared of spiders AND invisible fire?? [dioxygen_difluoride (FOOF) will ignite at 90K or -183 C](http://pipeline.corante.com/archives/2010/02/23/things_i_wont_work_with_dioxygen_difluoride.php)
From the article: "When a drop of liquid 02F2 was added to liquid methane, cooled at 90K., a white flame was produced instantaneously, which turned green upon further burning." I love that this extremely volatile molecule has the chemical formula 'FOOF'. [Then you'll love to hear about how it's made, and other FOOF trivia.](http://pipeline.corante.com/archives/2010/02/23/things_i_wont_work_with_dioxygen_difluoride.php) That was a wonderful read, thank you so much. "Ask if they offer free shipping." :P I recommend reading his other stuff as well. All posts with the "things I won't work with" tag are pretty great. The classic terrible molecule is dimethylmercury (he probably has an article on that, haven't looked though).  [This woman was killed](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Karen_Wetterhahn) when a couple of drops spilled on her gloves.  Killed in a way that killed her a year after exposure.

http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Karen_Wetterhahn I'm on mobile. Can you please give me a link to a list of these? I would definitely appreciate it. &gt; Hydrogen sulfide, for example, reacts with four molecules of FOOF to give sulfur hexafluoride, 2 molecules of HF and four oxygens. . .and 433 kcal, which is the kind of every-man-for-himself exotherm that you want to avoid at all cost. 

0.43  energy released by explosion of one kilogram of TNT ( 1 kilogram of TNT )

Now unless I mistook a unit somewhere the average human burns 5 times this amount of calories in a day correct? Unless I misunderstand, the remarkable thing here is that a fifth of a human's daily energy budget is coming out of five molecules.

Edit: a *mole* of them, that is. He clarifies that this is per mole. Does anyone better-versed in chemistry know whether he would typically mean one mole of reactants in total, or one mole of H2S and four moles of FOOF? If it's the former, the total mass of all these reactants would be approximately (1/5)\*(34 g/mol) + (4/5)\*(70 g/mol) ~= 63g of material.

EDIT: For perspective, that's a kilogram of TNT worth of energy in only about 145 grams. They are referring to energy released per the mole amounts in the equation. In physical chemistry, reaction quantities like delta-H, delta-G etc are always quoted per mole, but a better way to put it would be the energy released if the stoichiometric coefficients in the reaction were equal to actual mole amounts. You didn't answer the question though, unless I'm just misunderstanding you. Per mole of what, exactly? Reactants? There's 5 reactant molecules for one reaction. Products? Six molecules of that per reaction. The least common factor of all the terms in the equation? That would just be 1, since there's a single molecule of H2S. Or is it always one mole regardless of these factors?

Which is the standard one to use that produced the 433kcal figure? I need this to figure out the mass of reactants that would actually produce 433kcal of energy. It's been a bit since I had chemistry, but I believe reaction heat is given per mole of product.

Edit- I am wrong. I was thinking of heat of formation. Heat of reaction is for the full reaction. How do you synthesize something at 700C, which is not stable at room temperature, and then cool it to minus whatever to store it without it decomposing? Very quickly?

EDIT: So I read the paper as /u/superPwnzorMegaMan suggested (I have JACS access). The JACS paper does not describe the synthesis but instead refers to a prior publication: "Dioxygen difluoride was prepared directly from the elements by the method described elsewhere.^9"

Reference 9 is: A. G Streng and A. V. Grosse, "Addition and Substitution Compounds of Oxygen Fluorides," Second Annual Progress Report for the Office of Naval Research, Contract Nonr-3085(01), Research Institute of Temple University, Philadelphia 43, Pa., January 19, 1962.

[The Office of Naval Research site](http://www.onr.navy.mil/) does not seem to have an archive, and searching the [National Archives](http://www.archives.gov/research/catalog/) was similarly fruitless. I was able to find a scanned copy of [Streng's Third Annual Report](https://www.google.com/url?sa=t&amp;rct=j&amp;q=&amp;esrc=s&amp;source=web&amp;cd=1&amp;cad=rja&amp;uact=8&amp;ved=0CB8QFjAA&amp;url=http%3A%2F%2Fwww.dtic.mil%2Fdtic%2Ftr%2Ffulltext%2Fu2%2F403447.pdf&amp;ei=6i1vVbOAK5OhyASe-oKQDA&amp;usg=AFQjCNF92jpBxrea8J4Viz1o3zBKq787uw&amp;sig2=k1M4mt1K4PIymEjlXCvQjw&amp;bvm=bv.94911696,d.aWw) (which does not contain the synthetic details), but not the second. 

The related patent ["Process for preparing compounds containing the oof group"](http://www.google.com/patents/US3634483) again does not describe the synthesis of FOOF and contains a reference to the same Second Annual Report.

So, the question remains unanswered. /u/thebigslide provided a reasonable suggestion for synthesis, but my question is what are the technical details for cooling the reaction from 700C to 90K (-183C). And does any decomposition of FOOF occur during the process. It is likely synthesised in isolation, use an apparatus that has been evacuated, charged with a noble gas, reevacuated, recharged, etc, until the partial pressures of anything FOOF, F, O, react with are low enough. So does that mean one mole of Hydrogen Sulfide and four moles of FOOF make 433 kcal? Because if so that is more than my average breakfast from less than 110 g. There are 717 kcal in 100g of butter. 

So that's relatively rich, but not absurdly so. Much less than gasoline, which clocks in around 1000 kcal for 100g.  Damn if only I could digest gasoline. Would make bulking so much easier. Do you regularly have gasoline for breakfast?  is gasoline somehow a more absurd breakfast then FOOF? This is a great article theme. He has a whole bunch of compounds he won't work with - [this](http://pipeline.corante.com/archives/2011/11/11/things_i_wont_work_with_hexanitrohexaazaisowurtzitane.php) is my favorite one so far. I love this guy. His entire "Things I Won't Work With" series is great, even if you don't like/don't know chemistry, he has such a way with words!

http://pipeline.corante.com/archives/things_i_wont_work_with/

Favorite paragraph:

&gt;The authors advise appropriate caution, of course - these things have to blow up under some sort of provocation, and they'll be bad news when they do. I would not advise scraping them out of a sintered glass funnel with a metal spatula. But the Supplementary Information file describes the prep of two grams of one of these things, which is a convincing demonstration of confidence. If you tried that with any of the previously known organic polyazides, you'd want to get your affairs in order first, hand out earplugs as a courtesy to the crowd, and probably get the cameras running so your descendants can make money off the YouTube ad revenues. No, that's really remarkable stability. &gt; A. G. Streng, folks, absolutely takes the corrosive exploding cake, and I have to tip my asbestos-lined titanium hat to him.

Great read, thanks! Why is it named FOOF and not F2O2 ? It's actually O2F2, but referred to as FOOF because that's the order the atoms are bonded in (F-O-O-F) as well as the onomatopoeia of it blowing up in your face. More FOOF related trivia: The original Intel Pentium microarchitecture had a [particularly trivial and nasty bug](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pentium_F00F_bug) nicknamed F00F. It was named after the hexidecimal encoding of the operand that would basically completely lock up the chip. Operating systems had to install special checks as the instruction required no special privileges. OP is asking for flame temp and not ignition temperature.  Given the typical heat release from fluorine combustion, I'd expect the flame temp to be well above that ignition temperature, and possibly even a few thousand degrees. What about lots of oxygen with a small amount of FOOF (or lots of nitrogen added in)? The gas would stay reactive down to a very low temperature and the excess oxygen would absorb large quantities of heat to cool the flame. But, is the flame itself -183 C or does it ignite at -183 C with a flame of a more conventional temperature? The flame is definitely much hotter, yeah. FOOF is just so unstable that it will cause ignition even at that temperature, but while it tears itself and everything else around it apart, a ton of heat is produced. Flame is defined as a kind of plasma associated with oxygen combustion of a material. If there is no heated, ionized gas, there is no plasma. As far as F2O2 is concerned, this is not stated.

Candles are this way, as are oxyhydrogen torches. We find this with burning butane, natural gas flames on our stoves, as well as when a platinum wire is within an Ethanol solution, which spontaneously creates a very blue flame, by oxidation catalyzed by the Pt, which is a plasma.

Without heat, oxidation, and ionized plasma, there is no flame. It's hard to say WHAT the F2O2 effect is without more data. To be super-pedantic (and because I only learned this recently), while many flames contain some ionized gas, not all flames are plasmas, because plasmas have to have sufficient charge density to react in particular ways to electric and magnetic fields. [source](http://www.plasmacoalition.org/plasma_writeups/flame.pdf)

Plasma seems to be more likely in hotter and denser flames, but something like a candle flame is just soot getting hot and throwing off blackbody radiation rather than a plasma. [source](http://www-spof.gsfc.nasa.gov/Education/FAQs7.html#q97) To be ultra-mega-pedantic, not everything that burns even does so with a flame.  There is smouldering combustion that happens on a solid or liquid surface, and there's condensed phase combustion in which even the products don't vaporize. Is condensed phase combustion at all related to the process by which iron oxidizes into rust without "burning", besides both being oxidation? No, condensed phase combustion really is combustion.  Also called gasless combustion.  It's just that the products have a higher boiling point than the maximum temperature achieved.  As far as I'm aware it's only possible in premixed systems, since it would be difficult for fuel and oxidizer to get together otherwise. So you could technically have an effect on some type of flames using a magnetic field? [deleted] Fair point. Let's say a effect visible to the naked eye on some types of flames? The size of the magnetic field that it would take to visibly impact the flame would also impact your ability to live. How large of a magnetic field do you need to kill a human? By what mechanism does it kill, exactly? Somebody please answer this. I've been wanting to know for a while now ...how big of a magnetic field are we talking here? How condensed?  Say, an MRI? Yep! And it doesn't even have to be a plasma flame. There are ions in normal, everyday flames that [will react to strong fields, such as these electric plates.](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=a7_8Gc_Llr8)

It's just that there isn't enough ion density to call it a plasma (as they mention at the end of the video). A candle flame will react to a microwave oven in nicely visible ways. (Caution: may damage your microwave.) This is because it is sufficiently ionized to be conductive. When you say "may damage microwave," is it more of a legal disclaimer or "this kills the microwave" type warning? You can stick speaker wires into a flame with a litle salt feed to make it more conductive and make a flame speaker.  Electric, not magnetic, but along those lines.   &gt; oxygen combustion 

Does this imply a flame can only exist in the presence of oxygen? Or do you just mean oxidative combustion?

I had thought that a flame is just a highly exothermic oxidative reaction, with oxygen as the usual oxidizing agent but other oxidizers were possible? Combustion, at its MOST basic form is simply an exothermic reduction-oxidation reaction. One atom donates an electron, one gains an electron, and heat is produced. The vast majority of what we consider combustion on our planet is hydrogen combining with oxygen. Most of the time the hydrogen comes in the form of hydrocarbons.

So I guess that is a long way of saying you're absolutely right, but most of what we consider burning uses oxygen as the oxidizer.  Am using the commonly held meaning of the word, flame. Not the technical, special cases of it, either. The picayune nitpickers can be damned!! Because as usual they are talking about off the wall , often dubious exceptions, rather than common meanings of the word. Fire is not always plasma. It is only a plasma if it is hot enough. Flame is usually just hot gas emitting light.  While interesting, this doesn't answer his question.

He's curious about the temperature of the flame itself, not at what temperature a substance can ignite. Why is it called FOOF and not F2O2? FOOF represents the arrangement in 3D space of the molecule, I believe. It's to do with the valence electron bonding between atoms. It's actually properly written as ^(O)2^(F)2, but it's called FOOF by a lot of people because it's amusing, is all. That is a tough question to answer, even having studied combustion for a few years in a graduate environment.  I would define a flame to be a reaction which is propogated by a 2-d front within the fluid volume (not on a solid boundary).  That is to say, the reaction is better represented by a 2d surface rather than a 3d volume.  The reaction front can then be pushed around by the local fluid velocity.  If you use this definition to determine the minimum possible flame temperature, you'd possibly look for two gasses (possibly liquids) which ignite on contact with each other, and release very little heat.  I'm not a chemist, but I will say that finding such a combination would be difficult as reaction speed typically increases with energy being released.

This leads to a second point: Combustion reactions (and therefore flames) also are characterized by a fairly large activation energy in comparison to their heat release (which is also typically large).  This means that they depend on the heat release of their products to ignite new reaction.  Again, I'm not a chemist, but to get to a super low flame temp, you'd have to investigate a wide variety of reactions here.  I'd start by looking at reactions with the lowest possible autoignition temperature, and then cool them way below that so that their reaction gets them a few degrees above the autoignition temp.  A diluent would maybe have to be added to get the temperature down.  And the final temp would have to be sufficiently high that the reaction region is still thin (milimeters) enough to be considered a flame.  A good place to start would be exotic fluorine molecules with autoignition Temps way below 0C.

Again this is a very open ended question and depends heavily on the chemistry involved, but I wanted to clear, up a lot of the misinformation floating around here about what a flame actually is. I know some people have tried to push flammability limits to extremes using heat exchangers and porous media.  Unfortunately I never learned much about that - maybe you know someone working on such things.  Anyway, with some active management of the cooling side of things and control over the reactant temperatures, I feel like you could push flame temperature extremely low.  For what it's worth, I figure it still counts as combustion if it would go into thermal runaway were you to "let go" of the heat management. I haven't heard of any of that work off the top of my head, but I have heard of (and done research on) using diluent to lower flame temperatures.  So for example if you mixed additional nitrogen, helium, steam, etc... with fuel and air, that diluent is just along for the ride but will contribute nothing to the heat release.  So it'll take energy to heat it to the flame temp, but will not release energy.  There's obviously a limit here tho, as too much will make the flame very long and more of a volumetric reaction, by slowing down chemical kinetics, reducing the flame temp, and allowing for larger heat losses.  For a given chemistry (say methane, air, and steam) you could calculate which ratio of fuel, air, and diluent would still ignite but would have the lowest flame temp.  This calculation would take a long time however.  This is the reason why there is no straightforward answer to OP's question... you'd need to do a very tough calculation on a huge selection of possible fuels, oxidizers, and diluents. [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] will it burn my skin or just be uncomfortable? It's kinda like touching a hot pizza right out of the oven continuously. Only use natural fibers though. I did this once, worked great with cotton cloth, not so much with the polyester thread. [deleted] [deleted] It depends on how you are defining a, "flame." Are you looking for a chemical reaction that is consuming a fuel and emitting light and heat? Are you defining it as something that must consume a certain type of fuel (presumably oxygen?), or can light be the source of energy? Also temperature is an average of heat, so it really then depends on volume as well. 

I think the simplest answer to your question would be, very very cold. You could consult the literature and try to find ultra-low temperature chemical reactions that emit light. It would take some time though... 

EDIT: This might satisfy your curiosity: http://motherboard.vice.com/read/once-thought-impossible-scientists-create-cold-fires-in-space While I was typing this EngineeredArt posted a great answer.  I'm going to try to the candle temperature challenge myself.  Anyways I hope this adds something to the discussion.

For me it helps to clarify what a flame is and what its temperature is.

Flames are the visible signs of plasma turning into the combustion products.  (If I am wrong about this bit please let me know - flames are a pretty common thing where I work!).  The little clear area at the base of a calm flame is the plasma and unstable intermediates, and as it moves away from the reaction center and cools and condenses into the stable products (H2O, CO2, CO and C usually) it gives off radiation.  Some amount of that is visible light, and there is likely some amount of other wavelengths UV and IR, and some heat is also transferred as the products cool by colliding with surrounding molecules in the air.

So if each tiny bit of heat has to come from one of these reaction steps, then the temperature of the flame (or flamons if Im allowed to coin a word for discrete particles of an apparently continuous flame) is dependent on the chemical reaction and cant really be changed.  Also, it would more correctly be called energy content than temperature.

What makes a flame hot and dangerous is that this happens in a bulk manner and theres more heat being put into your hand than can be radiated out or conducted away by your blood.  If you had one molecule of methane burning it would be a very short-lived flame that would seem cool - if you could even detect it - because you could handle the heat.

Or think of iron rusting, its a very slow oxidation but isnt usually considered combustion because its so slow its not usually a worry.  It gets noticeably warmer if theres a lot of it (like in an iron powder hot pack) and dangerous if its dispersed like in a grain elevator.  But while its rusting, its sort of a very very very cool flame.  (Also not considered combustion because the common school definition of combustion is a hydrocarbon plus oxygen combining to form carbon dioxide and water which is pretty limiting).  (I see after typing this that the oxidizing of iron has been mentioned elsewhere - I apologize for any overlap and I hope I have managed to add to the discussion!).

Your question reminds me of that apparent paradox that you can freeze to death in the thermosphere (a region of the upper atmosphere 80-500ish km up) even though the temperature can reach 2700 F.  This is because the hot molecules are so far apart that you  lose more heat by radiation than you gain from them by conduction.

BTW Im a chemistry teacher and if you cant tell I love getting asked questions like that; it shows youre really thinking &amp; I bet you would be really fun to have in class. 
 One of those hand warmer packets produces heat by oxidizing iron.  It is the basically same chemical reaction as burning steel wool.  

To produce light from an incandescent source, as in a typical "flame", generally speaking requires heat and temperatures too high to touch.   Light can be emitted from low temperature chemical reactions like fluorescence in a "glow stick", but this is not known as a "flame".  The question you are really asking is a question of human physiology.  The point at which you decide that there is no "flame" is the point at which the gas is no longer emitting EM radiation **at a wavelength that is visible to the human eye.** It is also important to humans in the fact that, at some point in the electromagnetic spectrum us humans would appear to be burning. https://www.reddit.com/r/askscience/comments/10glbj/what_is_the_coldest_temperature_a_flame_can_be/ I don't want to go really in depth, but I think this is worth mentioning. You said that you thought it'd be cool if fire could be cool enough to hold in your hand. [You can actually do this at home quite easily](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BDFDgUB_kP4). All you need is some cotton, and a low temperature fuel such as lighter fluid, or Acetone. Since cotton, and the fuel both burn at a relatively low temperature, you're able to hold the fireball in your hand for short periods of time without burning yourself. I'm afraid I don't know much about this topic, but I do remember seeing this question answered before. The most common answer had to do with [cool flame](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cool_flame).

Quotes from the article:

&gt;Cool flame is a flame having maximal temperature below about 400 C (752 F).[1] It is usually produced in a chemical reaction of a certain fuel-air mixture. Contrary to conventional flame, the reaction is not vigorous and releases very little heat, light and carbon dioxide. Cool flames are difficult to observe and are uncommon in everyday life, but they are responsible for engine knock  the undesirable, erratic, and noisy combustion of low-octane fuels in internal combustion engines.[2][3][4]

And:

&gt; Cool flame can occur in hydrocarbons, alcohols, aldehydes, oils, acids, waxes[9] and even methane. The lowest temperature of a cool flame is poorly defined and is conventionally set as temperature at which the flame can be detected by eye in a dark room (cool flames are hardly visible in daylight). This temperature slightly depends on the fuel to oxygen ratio and strongly depends on gas pressure  there is a threshold below which cool flame is not formed. A specific example is 50% n-butane50% oxygen (in volume percent) which has a cool flame temperature (CFT) of about 300 C at 165 mmHg (22.0 kPa). **One of the lowest CFTs (80 C) was reported for a C2H5OC2H5 + O2 + N2 mixture at 300 mmHg (40 kPa).**[10] The CFT is significantly lower than the auto-ignition temperature (AIT) of conventional flame (see table[8]).[2]

So there is no hard set temperature below which flame can't exist. Rather the lowest temperature of a given flame depends on the specific concentrations and pressures of the materials involved. The coldest flame ever recorded would probably be incapable of burning you, and would not even be able to boil water. Not a chemistry person, and i definitely think this is more of a chemistry question, but seeing as no one has responded yet, I'll give it my best shot.

First, i would ask, "what is flame?"  Flame is not a material thing, rather it is a chemical reaction in which energy is released in the form of light and heat.  So really you are asking about what is the lowest possible temperature of said chemical reaction.  

Now think about that chemical reaction.  All reactions require a certain amount of activation energy, so there is a minimum temperature for a flame to start.  Flames indicate exothermic reactions, meaning energy is released.  Thus the temperature of the flame will be higher than the temperature needed to begin the reaction.  Exactly how much higher depends on the rate at which the released energy is dispersed, essentially how concentrated the energy is.

Some reactions can have a very small amount of energy being released every second.  If such a reaction were in an environment where the energy could be dissipated quickly, I could imagine the temperature of the flame to be only slightly above the temperature at which the reaction began.

All of the factors i have mentioned depend on what the reactants are (what are you burning) as well as the environment in which the reaction takes place.  So unfortunately, I do not think there is a single answer to your question, as there are too many conditions to consider.

EDIT: Also, I apologize if i am grossly wrong on any point in this.  I figured answering wrong might be progress, as I have read somewhere that the fastest way to get the correct answer to something is to post the wrong answer on the internet. I don't have the exact temperature but a phosphorus cold flame is said to have a temperature low enough to put your finger in it without feeling anything. 


Source:https://books.google.co.in/books?id=rSgDAAAAMBAJ&amp;pg=PA74&amp;lpg=PA74&amp;dq=phosphorus+cold+flame&amp;source=bl&amp;ots=DdqwJ6nKeD&amp;sig=F-J5_hdNakAmhoJDJ8-hSDfyeWQ&amp;hl=en&amp;sa=X&amp;ei=U_ptVdqfF-avmAXopoLoBw&amp;ved=0CCgQ6AEwAg At standard pressure, O2 becomes liquid at 182.96 C.  "Fire" is not a specific term, if you define it as a chemical reaction consuming gaseous oxygen, no fire can start here because all the O2 is liquid!

If preheated to boil by an existing flame by dropping a burning piece of carbon into it, of course liquid O2 can make fire- lots of it.   The carbon will boil the O2 immediately around it and react so aggressively that 

In fact most all "fire" you're familiar with requires preheating to an ignition temp.  Gasoline vapor and air do not react at 25C, it requires some tiny part of the mixture to be above an ignition temp of 280C.  Then it generates so much heat iuts neighboring molecules and soon all of it is above 280C and thus reacting.

However, if your air/fuel mass is below a certain temp, combustion may not generate enough specific heat to raise more fuel into a gaseous state past the ignition temp.

In an ideal lab condition, the specific heat of combustion of 1 gram of fuel/air mix just has to be higher than the total energy required to vaporize and heat up 1g of fuel to the ignition temp, and fire continues.

In reality it's much less efficient.  A damp stick is ignited on one end with a propane torch and hung vertically with the flame on bottom.  The combustion makes very hot air but most flows on the outside and is lost to the environment.  

Now wood itself does not "burn" as a solid.  Wood undergoes pyrolysis where it generates flammable gases starting at 200C-300C, but it only generates a tar gas and reduces to charcoal at that point, it needs to be 650C-900C to convert the bulk of charcoal to flammable gas and burn to ash.

If, for every 1g of fuel burned, the heat transmitted into neighboring wood surface isn't sufficient to warm the air used AND dry another 1g of wood surface and raise it to 650C-900C, then the fire dies out.  Colder air does inhibit this, but wetter wood has a much more dramatic effect due to the high latent heat of vaporization keeping the wood surface at ~100C until sufficient heat is delivered to dry out all the moisture. "Fire" is light generated from gaseous combustion, as the excited electrons produced by the reaction return to lower states (thus generating such light).  As a result, one needs enough heat (or other) to excite such electrons, and the energy transfer must be high enough to create a large quantity of such excited states.

The FOOF reaction with methane is interesting because it may be creating large numbers of excited states in the ensuing vapor.

The hard part is measuring the temperature of such a vapor, and this goes into the actual definition of "temperature": the *average* kinetic energy of a *quantity* of particles.  As a result, one needs to be able measure a sufficient collective quantity to be able to provide a defined temperature, and it is hard to say that this can be done with such a reaction.

I must also add that if the cold "flame" is generating blackbody radiation in the form of light, you would not be able to see much of the radiation because a greater proportion of it would be in the IR spectrum. I remember reading that you would freeze to death in the Corona of the sun (which is like a million degrees K) because it is so diffuse. If you ignored radiant energy from the sun that is. To answer your question indirectly: there is no such thing as a flame "temperature".

Flames are created by an exothermic reaction (releases energy) when a fuel (hydrocarbon) chemically combines with an oxidizer (oxygen) to form new compounds (ideally, CO2 and H2O).  This reaction releases *energy* and temperature is the byproduct.

Think of it like this: the fuel is just a battery.  It stores energy.  Batteries store electrical energy, fuel stores chemical energy.  When I burn a specific amount of fuel (with the appropriate amount of oxygen), I release a certain amount of energy (typically the lower/higher heating value).  For the same mass, this certain amount of energy causes a specific and unchanging rise in temperature.

The temperature of the flame produced is the combination of the temperature of the air, temperature of the fuel, and the amount of energy added to the air.

If you want to have some fun with this, burn a candle in a room temperature room and measure the "flame" temperature with an infrared thermometer.  Now, put the candle outside in the cold and let it cool overnight.  Early in the morning before the sun rises (make sure the candle is cold), relight the candle and measure the "flame" temperature again with an infrared thermometer.

You should find that the flame temperature outside is colder than the flame temperature inside.  It will probably be colder by the same amount as the difference between the temperature inside your house and outside your house.  For example, if your house is 70 degrees inside and 20 degrees outside, you will see a 50 degree change in your flame temperature.

Because the air and fuel temperatures are lower, and we are releasing the same amount of energy (causing the same change in temperature), your flame temperature will be lower.

Hope that helps! I know that the oxidation of Nitrogen is an endothermic reaction so the flame would be cooler than the heat required to make the reaction.  This wouldn't be the coldest, but it is interesting.   Depends on the definition of "burning". If you define burning as an exothermic chemical reaction between a fuel and an oxidant accompanied by a conversion of chemical species, iron rusting is "burning". In wood, carbon reacts with oxygen to form carbon dioxide, carbon monoxide and heat. In an old car rusting, the iron reacts with oxygen to produce iron oxide and provides heat. The difference is the resulting product is not gaseous, and is not heated enough to incandesce(glow), which we really mean by "burning".

While we can have incandescent solids, like the wire in a light bulb, you can't say it is a flame. So you have to think of flame as what it is, super hot gas that is so hot it is giving off light. So the real answer to your question is what combustion reaction produces incandescent gas at the lowest temperature. The wikipedia article for [cool flame](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cool_flame) has a few examples.  Combustion is essentially really fast oxidation. Since that's too arbitrary...you can pretty much have oxidation reactions at any temperature you want, though it gets pretty nebulous if you're forcibly driving the reaction at some low temperature. Try http://www.reddit.com/r/Magic/  Magicians seem to have something that's cool enough to hold in their hand but doesn't light their clothing on fire. I would expect most alcohols to be extremely dangerous to work with on stage, but they do have something.  
I heard that flash paper is actually nitrocellulose and so a very fast combustion, not necessarily cool. It depends a lot on how you define "flame" in this context.

Let me take a different approach to the idea: let's define a flame as an ionized gas which releases light. Now all of a sudden we can do this at plenty of temperatures!

All you need to do is fill a portable ionizer with some kind of fluorescent aerosol that isn't toxic to breathe and I'd expect to have flamelike effects after some trial and error. &gt; Edit: Going to edit to clarify my intentions: 14 year old me, sophomore in HS, was bored one day, and wondered if there was a fire cold enough I could hold it, touch it, be engulfed in it, without being harmed.

I can't answer your title question, but I _can_ help you with this part. In 11th grade AP Chemistry, I spent the last week (after the final exam) learning how to juggle flaming cotton balls. You get some plain old cotton, soak it in a mixture of methanol and water (I can't remember the ratio, sorry), light the three of them simultaneously with a match, then quickly pick them up and start tossing them like regular juggling balls. Anglerfish males. They don't sleep or even eat. In fact, they don't have the organs to do so even if they wanted.

They hatch and have to find a female in a short period of time. If they don't, they die. If they do, they fuse into the females and survive as a parasite. Most of their body parts die off, except for the reproductive organs which the female can use whenever she needs. The series of events that lead to this being predominant gene expression seems so ridiculous, and yet at the same time makes so much sense. Males are (in most cases) simply gene delivery systems; other than the penis they really serve no life function. Take honeybees for example. The hive is  almost exclusively female worker bees, only a few male drones are kept on supply incase the queen dies and they need to quickly get back up and running. A virgin queen will make one mating flight, the drones will follow her out and mate with her mid air, they die in the process. But most of the time the drones aren't needed, all they do is eat the fruits of the labor of the workers, they can't defend the hive (no stinger) and they are essentially dead weight. When the winter comes the female works drag the male drones out of tje hive, rip their wings off, and cast them aside. They never served their purpose so why keep them alive?  To clarify, drones most likely won't be fertilizing a queen from the same hive. The new queen will fly in a different direction from the drones from her hive, so that inbreeding is minimized. The queens then go on to mate with multiple drones, so that they can introduce more genetic diversity into their new hive. Also, when queens are laying eggs, they can choose the gender of the egg by fertilizing it or not. Gender is chosen by measuring the size of the cell that the egg is laid into; drones are physically much larger than workers, so they need to have larger cells to grow in. And while there are significantly less drones than workers, there usually are still a lot of drones in a hive. If you start seeing too many drones in a hive, however, it can be a sign that the queen has been replaced by a 'laying worker'. Since workers have never mated, they can only lay unfertilized eggs, which hatch as drones. All of this seems to much complex for animals without reasoning... amazing. Bees and Ants have been studied for thousands of years due to their highly evolved social structure. It's just the behavior that ended up leading to the greatest survival. Genetic diversity is a HUGE key to survival, so instincts that coincidentally lead to genetic diversity win out. It's not necessarily the greatest survival. But it put them in a niche that they survived well in. Exactly, there is no best thing to invest in. There is only passing on the ability to pass on the ability to pass on. Nothing that is used to achieve this goal has any additional value above existing. If one can exist in a niche it doesn't matter how it did it as long as it's successful. A virus does it differently than a CAM plant. One could argue the virus is more successful because it exists in higher numbers, or one could argue the cam plant is better because it's very independent. In the end it doesn't matter because they exist and that's all that maters. May I ask how UNfertiilized eggs hatch? You know how mammals have X and Y chromosomes? This is called the [XY sex-determination system](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/XY_sex-determination_system), but not all animals work that way! Birds and some other types of animals instead use the [ZW sex-determination system](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ZW_sex-determination_system), where males have two of the same chromosome (ZZ) and females have two different types (ZW). Bees and ants use a different type, called [Haplodiploidy](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Haplodiploidy) -- unfertilized eggs will hatch as males, and have only one set of all of their chromosomes, while fertilized eggs will become females and have two sets of chromosomes: all of the chromosomes of their father and half of the chromosomes of their mother. That means that a brother and sister will only have 1/4 of their genes in common, while brothers will have 1/2 of their genes in common and sisters will have 3/4 of their genes in common. It's quite interesting and leads to some weird situations!

A male has no father and cannot have sons, but he has a grandfather and can have grandsons! &gt; Males are (in most cases) simply gene delivery systems; other than the penis they really serve no life function. Take honeybees for example. The hive is almost exclusively female worker bees, only a few male drones are kept on supply incase the queen dies and they need to quickly get back up and running.

The worker bees are also just there to serve the hive/queen. Who  in the end  is just propagating her genes. Every living thing is just serving its genes. Genes sure are selfish, unlike the worker bees who dedicate their whole lives to the upkeep of the hive &gt; Genes sure are selfish, unlike the worker bees who dedicate their whole lives to the upkeep of the hive

The worker bees are sterile. There is no true tendency to altruism unless it serves the genes. [deleted] Until mammals came along. Like a giant bull protecting its breeding females or a Gorilla doing the same. It works by culling out the week meaning only the strongest can reproduce (unless a weak male breeds unknowingly to the leaders knowledge). In a bear the sow protects the young but even then the male has around a 10 mile range of females he solely mates with and protects. There is a Gealic insult based on these bees, you would call someone a "ludraman" if they are a useless, lazy person, it's literal translation is drone bee. I like to think that one day they'll become progressive enough to overthrow the queen and create a democratic government that makes sure male bees occupy half of those jobs. [deleted] What I found funny is how the mammalian situation seems to be the exact opposite of that.   It could be turned around as well. You could really reform the statement. I could say females are (mostly) used as a temporary structure to hold offspring. ;) For example; orangutangs are mostly male dominated, females are usually stationary and knocked up by new males  And so biological life itself is only a temporary structure for holding sentient intelligence. So, perhaps we are really non-corporeal being that rely on organisms for us to latch onto and control.  Like how hermit crabs live in shells.   Or we're just the rudimentary precursor, the primitive kindling that gives way to a true blaze.  Intelligence has had a crude origin in flesh -- first in thoughtless but complex systems like bees, now in the minds of humanity -- but as genes have become less vital to the advancement of same we now work to create digital progeny.  Soon intelligence will abandon its natal flesh just as mammals abandoned the egg, and what results will be a brighter, purer flame than our base and convoluted structure ever allowed.  Sapience 2.0; the immortal digital consciousness to which we will contribute our intellectual code before dying off like drones in flight. Sapience 2.0...unlimited lifespan *and* no need to sleep (had to take it full circle) Yes, but it only takes a few males to repopulate with many females with most species.  Turn the tables and it'll take much longer to rebuild a population.

 How does the queen ant get bigger than the rest? Why isn't it the same for Humans? Why aren't females the bigger and stronger side? In general, when females are bigger, it's because being bigger = more offspring for females, but not for males.  Eggs are bigger than sperm, so, for example, a female spider that is large can hold more eggs and have more babies, while a small male can still hold all the sperm he'll ever need.    It works this way for a lot of cold blooded animals that produce large numbers of eggs, but not for mammals.  Females only have a few offspring at a time anyway so being huge won't usually help them have more.

The flip side is, males tend to be big when being big gets them more access to mates.  When males fight over access to females, only the biggest males get to breed so being big gets you more offspring as a male, but not a female (since females don't have to win fights).  Lots of mammals do this, including many primates.  Humans actually have a rather toned-down version...human males are bigger, but not to the extremes seen in some other primates, which reflects the fact that human males fight over access to mates, but not as much as in some other species. Wow! It's amazing how important of a role males have been to our species, recognizing that sentence!  All that is required evolutionarily speaking is that it happened by random chance once upon a time and worked well enough to pass on the genes long enough that it "stuck" so to speak. Of course this is a vastly dumbed down run over. 

Evolution is rather clumsy if you think about it. Things just kind of mutate,  and if they work okay they live,  at least awhile. If they don't they die before they can pass on their genes and fade into oblivion. How could all of that (lacking ability to eat, extremely short lifespan, etc.) happen all at once randomly? It's unlikely that all happened at once.  One happened which led to another happening and so on. The theory for why anglerfish do this is because of the vastness of the abyss. It's hard to find a mate down there. So it probably started by males attaching to females. The non-attaching males who found a female could mate once, and maybe never encounter another female. The attaching males who found a female could mate once, then again over and over. It's easy to see how this mutation could take over the population.

The rest probably came later. It's possible that males started out by attaching but not fusing with the female, and dying after "only" several mating sessions (which was still more than non-attaching males). So the ones that start fusing with the female to live longer would have more chances to reproduce. Once that's settled, the ones whose organs degrade were less of a "burden" on the resources of the female, so those pairs of female and male would live longer and reproduce more batches of offspring.

I'm not saying this is exactly how it happened. But it probably happened step-wise in this fashion. Some anglerfish species exhibit this, not all of them. Many are free living, and even some who attach to the female won't do so permanently.

Look for my comment for more details in the linked thread below.

https://reddit.com/r/askscience/comments/1ky8sh/how_is_a_male_anglerfish_not_rejected_by_the/ Wow, I didnt know about this until I just looked it up, in which I found [this](http://s3.amazonaws.com/theoatmeal-img/comics/angler/header.jpg) and [this](http://www.wired.com/wp-content/uploads/images_blogs/wiredscience/2013/11/Anglers-2-F.jpg) showing a male attached to the top of a female, and [this](http://www.wired.com/images_blogs/wiredscience/2013/11/2004.11.6-250x300.jpg) showing one's face, and how it has the largest nostril-to-face-size ratio of any animal on earth, which it uses to sniff out females. God damn is that a weird thing that I have never heard of before. Yeah, anglerfish are really strange. It makes me think of waking up from a one-night stand, and looking down to see the guy permanently attached to me now. That would be so awkward. So, an anglerfish is what others might call a sperm? So they get married? Dolphins have an interesting sleep cycle as they would drown if they were ever totally unconscious. They shut down one half of their brain at a time, closing the corresponding eye. Whales, Orcas and Porpoises sleep in the same "Unihemispheric slow wave sleep" manner.

This is not due to life-span but they are never fully unconcious.

Source: http://www.livescience.com/44822-how-do-dolphins-sleep.html Interestingly when a dolphin does sleep they often do so in pairs or groups with the open and alert eye on the outside of the group and the closed eye facing the other dolphins closed eye so they can still watch out for predators.  Lots of animals do something similar where one half of the brain sleeps while the other is 'awake' (ducks, iguanas, etc) to guard against predation.

I believe what makes the dolphins unique is that the blow hole is a voluntary sphincter so they must keep part of their brain awake to prevent them from inhaling water.

crappy source: http://understanddolphins.tripod.com/dolphinblowholeandbreathing.html Just to clarify, they close the opposite eye Well, technically the corresponding eye would be the one on the other side, I suppose OP inferred most would know that. Regardless, this is very interesting because many mammals have both eyes input to both hemispheres, which means the sleeping hemisphere would still be getting input from the ipsilateral eye. It's actually very interesting stuff. If you follow the schematics, with one eye closed and one hemisphere "shut down", the dolphin only sees the lateral half of what the contralateral eye sees. Could humans ever do this? Was wondering the same thing! It would be pretty neat! 

Although, most of us luckily don't live in environments where this adaptation would be of much usefulness.  I'd abuse this. I'd permanently have half of my brain asleep and both sides during the night. You'd be groggy all the time though if you were in perma-sleep, don't you think? Depends on your definition of sleep, but it's not really related to lifecycle. Giraffes, for instance, sleep no more than 30 minutes per day scattered in little micronaps. 

To try and answer your question: no, not really. Sponges don't sleep, of course, but basically any form of life complex enough to sleep does so. Even jellyfish, corals and insects have periods of lower activity which can be defined as sleep.

EDIT: And those who keep saying "mayfly" are wrong. Mayflies actually can have pretty long lifespans, for an insect; they can remain in their larval form for years at times, and they most definitely eat and sleep during that period. That's pretty incredible how giraffes would sleep in micronaps for less than a total of 30 minutes a day.   
Wonder what they do with all that free time/at nighttime It's more a survival mechanism than anything else. A big giraffe lying down to rest is basically sticking a sign in its back saying "Hey lions, come here and eat me!" So they can't do it any longer than a few minutes at best.

I'm hardly a giraffe expert, but perhaps they also nap like horses do, standing on their feet. &gt; perhaps they also nap like horses do, standing on their feet.

You're wrong.  [But you're going to be glad that you are](http://static.neatorama.com/images/2013-05/baby-giraffe-sleeping-2.jpg) Also, note that like baby giraffes, [foals lie down for sleeping](http://www.equinephotographers.org/portfolio/040607103.jpg).

(And I just learned that [adult horses need to lie down as well](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Horse_behavior#Sleep_patterns), but only briefly and not very often.) [deleted] Adult horses *need* to lie down, yes, but they also will frequently sleep lying down for the "pleasure" of it, i.e. beyond their minimum need, if they feel safe/secure in their environment. If you visit a ranch or barn before dawn, or just around dawn, you'll often find a good number of giant sleepy ~~babies~~ horses happily curled up and dozing in their stalls, or else just flat on their sides totally conked out. And lazier horses will lie down to sleep in the middle of the day, too. Yup, you just have to be careful because a horse laying down can also be a sign of bloat. Colic, but yes. Horses don't get bloated by itself (in the way that dogs can get it when their stomach flips, or that humans do either), but bloat is a symptom of colic or "hay belly". It's usually pretty obvious when a horse is laying down because it's just chilling, versus when a horse is laying down because it's distressed though. Usually if a horse has colic and is inclined to lay down because of it, they'll also be rolling and pawing at the ground.

Edit: not correcting you, just expounding on the information because this is askscience and I'm an INTP so I love trivia. &gt;  "pleasure"

Why did you put this in quotes? Can't really ask them if they're feeling pleasure?  Well...we kind of can, right? If we could measure 'pleasure' by correlating it to some chemical in your brain (like dopamine or serotonin), you could set up an experiment to see what impacts a horse's feeling of pleasure. It would seem strange to me that horses *don't* feel pleasure just like we do Because some people would argue a horse doesn't really feel happiness, or pleasure outside of the immediate moment, and I didn't know if this was that kind of sub. In my last/clinical year of vet school I was on equine emergency/overnight shift and had to go do rounds/medicate every 2 hours. One of the patients was sleeping on its side at the 2am check and scared me half to death because I thought it was dead. So then I went into its stall and woke it up like a jerk. :p I grew up with a pinto palimino paint and she would lay down to rest all the time, One time we were heading back home along the way she got tired and lied down right on top of my leg and wouldn't budge. I was stuck like that for 2 hours, there was nothing I could do to convince her to move from begging to pinching she was down and out. A narcoleptic horse. That's kind of like a car with some weird electrical problem that just leaves you stranded lol. I hope your leg was ok, that could cause injury I would think.  The ground was forgiving where she laid down all very silty , if it had been rocks, snakes or cactus I would have hit her till she got up but it wasn't so bad I could rotate my leg and I was pretty tired so we just hung out. To be fair I think ircc that was the first time I ever rode her to hard and I deserved it.

Edit: I was about 11 and 85lbs when this happened so "hitting" is a long stretch, I defiantly pinched her though a few times, did not care. There was a mare at my stable that did that. Scared the crap out of me the first time I saw it- I was on the other side of the fence and she was in the middle of the pasture, sprawled out on her side. I called for her and shook my bucket of treats and she would NOT respond. I thought she was dead. Nope, just very asleep. I finally went over and pinched her and she startled awake. [deleted] This is an incredibly cute image.  Do they all curl up like that or just this one? Boy do I have good news for you!

http://linzhouweb.com/wp-content/uploads/2015/319204-baby-giraffe-sleeping.jpg

http://linzhouweb.com/wp-content/uploads/2015/298706-giraffe-sleeping.jpg

http://www.livescience.com/images/i/000/020/671/i02/6-giraffe.jpg?1317828638

http://i3.mirror.co.uk/incoming/article2203477.ece/alternates/s2197/Baby-giraffe-that-has-been-born-at-Paignton-Zoo.jpg No wonder they don't sleep long I would have the worst kink in my neck if I slept like that.  No kidding why aren't there giraffe beds with pillows so they don't have to hurt their neck.   [deleted] [My favorite is giraffes drinking water]( http://onebigphoto.com/uploads/2013/11/two-giraffes-drinking-water.jpg) This is an amazing picture. Giraffes must spend a tremendous percentage of their life being uncomfortable doing various things. It's a very vulnerable position for them.  Giraffes can go without water intake for longer than a camel.  Fascinating animals really, quite quirky. [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] Makes you wonder if giraffes kept in captivity sleep more, since they have no danger of being eaten (even if it's a biological thing, there may be variations). [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] Horses do lie down ever so often. But they do sleep standing as well. I close friend of mine lives in a massive farm where they breed and train those massive horses to jump obstacles (the olympic sport) and I have seen it happen.
 So would a giraffe in the zoo sleep more then? Well, giraffes don't do it consciously, after all; it's a genetic thing that came from thousands of generations of sleepy giraffes being eaten and non-sleepy giraffes surviving. The giraffe in the zoo might feel more safe, but he would still sleep roughly the same.

Sort of like... we no longer really need body hair (for the last thousand of years or so - definitely), but it's not like we suddenly lost all body hair, have we? &gt; Well, giraffes don't do it consciously, after all

But couldn't they? 

Humans only need 6-8 hours of sleep but I would gladly sleep 10 hours a night and nap multiple times a day if my job and responsibilities allowed it.  Why should giraffes be any different?   Perhaps I wasn't specific enough. I meant that, of course, a giraffe in the zoo could sleep all day long if he really wanted to because there's no danger, and it wouldn't be a stretch to say that he understands it (he sees that there's no lion nearby to catch him if he closes his eyes for a few minutes). However, body functions dictate not only the minimal required value of something (like the length of sleep), but also the "recommended" value, I think, which should be pretty close to this minimal required value.

In your example, yes, you could sleep for 10 hours or even more, especially if you haven't slept much the day before. However, it doesn't mean that you would be able to sleep for 10-12 hours every day. Imagine a typical day when you can wake up whenever you want (such as a weekend with no plans): don't you have the urge to get of the bed eventually? And I'm not talking about going to the toilet, I mean the feeling of "lying in bed is getting unbearable".

Also, note that 6-8 hours of sleep daily isn't exactly the most natural restriction; it's something that we impose on ourselves willingly by having 9-to-5 jobs. It's a staple of the last few decades at most; throughout human evolution, other things were determining our sleep cycle. 2-3 generations aren't enough to break the pattern instilled by thousands. I had thought that the 6-8 hours of sleep in one solid chunk through the night was pretty much the way that humans had evolved because of how poorly our eyes handle darkness?

Rhesus monkeys sleep on almost the same exact schedule as humans at least [study](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC2542979/) Fair enough. I assumed that /u/Gumburcules wrote "6-8 hours" with the meaning of not sleeping enough - I had always thought that exactly 8 hours is the average value a grown up human needs. With that in mind, we would sleep the "required" 8 hours as soon as we have the opportunity for it (weekend), but we wouldn't start sleeping for 10+ hours every day even if our day job and everyday duties would allow it. Some researchers think two chunks around 4 hours each are more normal for humans: [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Segmented_sleep#As_a_historical_norm](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Segmented_sleep#As_a_historical_norm) do giraffes at the zoo sleep longer? If you ever want to watch something Interesting. Find the whipsnade zoo documentary (from when the BBC recorded animals sleeping in the zoo). 
Among the most interesting bits are the giraffes and the ostriches.
Ostriches use bi-hemispherical sleeping patterns... So half the brain sleeps whilst the other wakes. In between those phases, the bird does some pretty curious things.
It's a lot more complicated than "half the brain sleeps at a time" - the documentary explains it really well!  I've heard that bi hemisphere sleep is the norm for animals and that mammals are unusual for having lost the adaptation. Don't some aquatic mammals still practice this? If I remember correctly, dolphins do, and that is how they sleep but still surface for air when they need it. Not a total of 30 minutes, but intervals of 30 minutes. They total for more than that (hours) That is not what OP said.

 "Giraffes , for instance, sleep no more than 30 minutes per day scattered in little micronaps."

So do you have supplementary knowledge on the subject and you are clearing what OP said up? (Not trying to sound like a dick, I'd just like to know which one it is.) [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] What is your citation for giraffes sleeping only 30 minutes per day? That seems a gross underestimate compared to the figure of 4.6 hours from the only [study](http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1046/j.1365-2869.1996.00010.x/abstract;jsessionid=6B9ECE0AE97EBAF5B48F00E4A14F61D1.f03t04) I'm aware of.

As to whether less complex animals can be defined to sleep, it comes down to where you choose to draw your line on the definition of sleep. There's no consensus on this, and it may not make any sense to apply a discrete cut-off to what is almost certainly a continuum of sleep-like behaviors. Perhaps he meant naps of 30 minutes but the study found in the course of a day that they will total 4.6 hours cumulative?  His wording is absolutely wrong if he meant that. Totally implies the other way. Not even implies, totally says.  Ants do this as well (at least the common species). No more than 2-3 minutes at a time while the queens lounge about all day sleeping around a whopping 6 minutes per nap. Lazy queens. &gt; Sponges don't sleep, of course, but basically any form of life complex enough to sleep does so. 

Which once again raises the ever-pervasive question of, why *do* we sleep? To give a very simple answer: we sleep to improve our performance during wake.

Note, if you take that as your functional basis for defining sleep, and you are also happy to call inactive phases in other organisms "sleep", then it's difficult to find animals that *don't* sleep. Possibly you can even say sponges sleep.

To give a more complex answer: Sleep in humans consists of many different processes that in concert help to improve our bodily and cognitive performance during wake. To date, we know many such processes. These include:

* Flushing metabolic by-products out of the brain.

* Conserving energy and restoring ATP levels in neurons.

* Selectively pruning synapses and storing memories.

* Boosting immune function.

* Growing and repairing bones. Related question: I understand that sleep deprivation leads to death - which of these processes are responsible for killing us if we are prevented from sleeping? &gt; I understand that sleep deprivation leads to death

That's not necessarily true. See my answer to an earlier question [here](http://www.reddit.com/r/askscience/comments/2tfeik/why_do_people_die_from_lack_of_sleep/).

&gt; which of these processes are responsible for killing us if we are prevented from sleeping?

In the cases where sleep deprivation has led to death (i.e., in rats), the process is not completely understood, but a number of experiments have implicated impaired immune function. I would have thought that more meaningful question would be, why do we wake? I mean, the less conscious way of life came before the more conscious mode. Perhaps we only stay awake as long as it takes to maximize our safety while we sleep and not a minute longer. I wouldn't equate consciousness or sentience with wakefulness. It's most likely that sleep/wake cycles evolved out of circadian rhythms. Even the most basic lifeforms have circadian clocks that generate daily rhythms in their cellular biochemistry. This leads to times of day when the cells are more or less active in various respects, e.g., in their rate of cell division, in their expression of different genes, and in their metabolism. They are not uniformly in a single state (be that "wake" or "sleep").

Once you have temporally segregated cellular processes, you are not far from sleep/wake cycles, since sleep/wake cycles are essentially a division of our day into two states:

1. A state where we conduct processes that involve directly interacting with our environment (wake).

2. A state where we conduct processes that improve the nature of our interactions with our environment during wake, either through selective timing of those interactions or improved biological functioning during those interactions (sleep).

Viewed this way, sleep isn't a single biological process involving any specific organ (e.g., the brain). It's a collection of processes that have become grouped together over evolutionary timescales. To add onto what /u/hagenissen666 said, there is also waste buildup that drains more during sleep than while awake, meaning it's sort of cleaning itself. You also do a ton of things to do with memory(which is the leading idea behind why we dream as well.) I often think how different the world would be if we never slept. Like would we work 12 hours a day on the norm? 

I feel like we would work at night and just chill all day long. 

How many meals a day would we have?

If all that extra time would we all be smarter and the world more advanced? 

Lots of important things to think about.  IIRC the Wikipedia article on jellyfish mentions that there are a few tiny species that only live for a few hours each.  Do they count?

I will note that, last I checked, it did not provide any *examples* of these, so it's possible that this particular passage is based on flawed information, but I thought I'd ask.
 Even if they only 'live' for a few hours it sure takes much more than a few hours to grow and give 'birth' to them (I don't think it would be called birth for a jellyfish). [deleted] Hummingbirds don't sleep too, right? They enter torpor because of their metabolism? Yep Topor, go into hibernation. However I wonder if that considered sleep or not. Amazing little birds.  Well, it depends on your definition of sleep, but Hummingbirds dont sleep, because that would kill them because their metabolism is so high. Instead they go in to hibernation. Their temperature is lowered to more than half and their heartbeat sometimes slowed down o 20 times slower than during the day.

This might be totally irrelevant, but at least someone might have learned something today.  