That flour is ruined Flour? That's obviously baking soda. Baking soda, I got baking soda! got that PANDEMIC WMD right chea, right chea Get dat Rockafella'! Whip it. through the. glass Ni..........young african american gentleman  Reddit sings modern hits. Up next: "My African American fellow, we've made it". Wait turn this up female dog this is my jam (Where are the percussion instruments located?)

Here, take a picture worthy of damnation by a god

And tell Spike Lee he is an African American worthy of damnation by a god Ayyyyy Tyler! ###*WOOP WOOP WOOP WOOP* *ITS THE SOUND OF DE POLIZ* #WOOP WOOP That's battlefield. IM BLOWING. MONEY. FAST NI....... young African American gentleman 36 that's a kilo/ need a brick miss my free throw. Just remember, baking soda not baking powder. Ya use baking powder guys will have muffins growin outta there nose. I think I'll try me some of that there cacaine you dont want none of this Dewey Cox! It turns all your bad feelings into good feelings, it's a nightmare! A link to the [trailer](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WdJub3Kz2wI) for those that are interested. Game looks pretty damn cool !
 Holy. Fucking. Shit. This looks amazing. Tom Clancy games fuck yeah! Needs more radio towers  climbable, naturally.

And....this is just a crazy idea off the top of my head...once you climb them...you reveal points of interest around the map! I'm guaranteeing we see a mechanic like that. Instead of climbing, it will be placing an uplink box or something on a hilltop, camera will pan out and play some "beep boop" sounds, and  snap to the new locations and say "XXXX *acquired*" instead of "XXXX discovered"

edit: I'm calling that shit right now. !remindme November 30 I really hope it doesn't turn out like Future Soldier.  I hope it doesn't turn out like Advanced ~~Warfare~~ Warfighter. I played it on Xbox and DAMN was it overhyped. Also, you were required to abbreviate it as "GRAW", which raised the hype-o-meter an additional 10 points. GRAWWWWWWWWWWWWWWW!!! My dad loved that game.

My dad. 

He hasn't play a video game since. RIP dad Do you mean Advanced Warfighter? Remember how good Watch Dogs' first trailer was in 2012? Or The Divison in 2013 compared to the one we just saw last night. Ubisoft is forming a pattern. I'm still kinda stoked for The Division.. The scripted dialogue always kills it for me That's my gripe with all the showcases. I'd rather have the spokesperson talk more about the features of the game *while* game play is happening, maybe even have a little bit of developer commentary. I don't want to be that guy, but it looks worse graphically now. Another Ubisoft downgrade. I know that word gets tossed around so much and its so fucking annoying but Ubisoft is really trying to under deliver. Hey at least we saw it worse off before it got on the shelf. They have a lot to handle in that game. It's possible it was their only option to make it all run smoothly.  We saw Watch Dogs with the release graphics long before it hit shelves too. People were getting hung up on a years-old trailer. Same thing happened with the Witcher 3. But that controversy went away fairly fast since the gameplay was damn good. And to most of us, the visuals were still jaw dropping. Maybe game devs are finally learning that a game cannot survive alone on pretty graphics. witcher 3 looks absolutely breathtaking in PC. Play on Ultra its probably on the most gorgeous looking game ever! There are graphically prettier games, but I do believe it's the prettiest open world game. Especially for it's size. People were mad because the better graphics were literally just disabled (with only one or two exceptions like the smoke).  Yeah, and when they were accessible the framerate drop was basically negligible. My guess is that the drop wasn't negligible on the Xb1. Graphics are good, but I'm far more interested in gameplay. If I had a choice between a game with last-gen graphics and an amazing gameplay experience, or a game with movie-quality graphics and boring gameplay, I'd take the former every time.

I'm still pretty hype for The Division, even if the graphics aren't as amazing as we initially thought. Don't tell that to others, only how REALISTIC the graphics look determines how good the game is. That's not the point. 

People aren't upset if every game isn't the new Crysis. 

People are upset when they show you amazing graphics to build up hype and then decide to downgrade them.

Worst is when they try to flat out deny the downgrade.

I'd rather them show the graphics on the weakest platform than show it running on some SLI'd 980 rig that 1% of the gaming population owns. 

It's like online dating. I'm perfectly fine with going out with a 7/10 that looks like a 7/10 in her pictures. It's the 9/10s with MySpace angles that show up 50 lbs heaver with no filters hiding their flaws.  In-engine vs in-game  Watch dogs and the division in 12 and 13 were both claimed to be in game gameplay, not in engine. Actually, yeah, there seems to be less detail in the [2015 reveal](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f0SjtXRQKW4) compared to the [2014 reveal](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JhBAc6DYiys).  
I'm wondering if that's because the 2014 was a PC demo while 2015 was for the consoles.    
^^^^^^^^pcmr This always makes me sad, I wonder if they just flushed the original, better looking stuff. Even if it was all fake I'd still love to just walk around the one short gameplay scenario and look at all the assets.

Even beyond the graphics though the world looked considerably more static as well, though it could just be the section they showed. The last two demos had tons of destruction and bullet holes in things. As well as the small animation of the player in cover shutting a cop car door. That just looked too scripted to be real. Yeah, I want to be pleasantly surprised by it, that and Rainbow 6 I was excited for Rainbow 6 because I loved the old games. However, now it looks like another game for people with no attention span.  original rainbow six was amazing game...common ubisoft just give us good gameplay! I hope they do. Rainbow Six 3 and the original Recon games were really amazing and I feel like the games after that have been a let down.  The latest Rainbow Six games seem to be a result of them making the game more "action" based like traditional FPS, instead of the tactical, extremely unforgiving gameplay the series is known for. Rainbow Six Vegas was fantastic, too. The Division still looks cool in my eyes.  It's Ubisoft. Of course it LOOKS amazing.. but we'll have to see how it plays. That whole trailer was just stinking of awesome all over.  Is there a yearly contest of best trailer? Cause this one is definitely one of the contenders.  Then there can be another contest of which failed to live up to its original trailer the most, though UBI would win that every time. I'd totally take that as a compliment if I was one of their trailer guys haha Ummmmmm.... Dead Island. please don't remind me Hey, remember that game? About zombies? On an island? Remember that one? Remember how good that trailer was? Man that was disappointing right?

(To be fair, it wasn't really a *bad* game, just the trailer made it look like it'd, you know, HAVE a story...) To be fair, it wasn't a gameplay trailer. My fave was Hitman. Great, now i want to do cocaine. *Y-Y-Y-YEAAAH!!!* http://img.photobucket.com/albums/v738/thoughtless_psycho/Facebook/Random%20things/4299_79393847638_599847638_1908549_1134473_n.jpg cant fight the friction [Yay, Cocaine!](http://i.imgur.com/UPa9GRi.gifv) MMMNOM NOM NOM! It looks cool but these games are so far away from what ghost recon was, by now. I miss the heavy slow tactical shooters they used to be.  I couldn't agree more, I really miss the early games of series like SOCOM, Rainbow Six, Splinter Cell, and Ghost Recon. They're all about flashy explosions and missions where your little squad kills insane amounts of enemies. They used to be slow paced and tactical, where you would need to work with your team, not just go rambo everything that moves.   
      
Edit: I know it looks like you can be slow and tactical or loud and fast, and I know I'm the minority here, but nothing in this game looks tactical. I just don't like these games where you have all these gadgets that the enemy has no countermeasures for, half the ways of killing are scripted takedowns that require one button push, and the enemy can hardly hit the broad side of a barn or even see farther then 10 feet. In a lot of the older games if you poked your head around a corner it was blown off immediately, now you can take bullets like the terminator. I remember the first time I played SOCOM at my buddies house.  I finished a mission without ever reloading my gun, it was this slow approach type thing where you took your shots carefully.  It was like nothing I'd played before, and I was hooked.  I want something like that again. I've been saying for years that SOCOM was way ahead of its time. Such difficulty resulting from a real need to be precise. And your teammates were actually useful and not just set pieces to your one-man army. They contributed and it was really bad if you lost one or if you took damage too early in a mission. 

I miss the SOCOM series. Haven't played since Combined Assault. The closest I get to super deliberate, tactical game play is Splinter Cell but I don't have to tell you that it's not the same. 

This trailer made me think we might be on the verge of getting that sort of game play back again in a 3rd person shooter. But it's Ubi, so I'm very cautiously optimistic. If you have a PC (or Mac), we have Socom being ported over as a Workshop mod to Insurgency. It's still a work in progress, but it's coming along very well. 

http://socomsource.com

Video example of an older build: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=N9deZfotaac

The mod is free, [Insurgency is currently on sale for like $7 (normally $15)](http://store.steampowered.com/app/222880/).  They Socom guys are working on bringing over the popular maps (Frostfire, Desert Glory, Night Stalker, etc.) to Insurgency.  They actually have them already working on CSGO but they are moving to Insurgency since it already has lean/prone mechanics which CSGO doesn't.  So since the maps are already on CSGO, bringing them over to Insurgency is much easier since they share the same exact engine.  I really want those kind of slow careful gameplay back! Like SWAT 4 where you really have to plan or you can easily die or get wounded seriously making you move slower.  If they remade SOCOM I would be sooooo happy. It was the first game that fully immersed me as a young kid growing up with video games.  I first played socom 2 when i was 13.  I never experienced a game where so few bullets fired gave me such a long rush.  That first long level using the sr 25 sd, man that was the shit Socom was the shit. It was one of the few games that actually required team strategy.  Did you play Future Soldier? 

Because it was like that in a lot of ways, especially on the hard difficulties.

Yeah, you had high tech toys and active camo... But if you screwed up you were as good as dead.

And (spoilers) halfway though when you think you're hot shit Russian special ops show up with the same gear you have and jam your systems for a level taking your toys away to flip everything on it's head. I respectfully disagree. I think the open world setting and availability of vehicles that are drive-able, rather than just as assets, affords a greater range of flexibility for that tactical combat we all know and love. First game really was beyond even "tactical combat". Most of the time, it wasn't even combat. Crawling through trees for ages trying not to be seen by some invisible sniper god with eagle eyes.

Then missing your shot and getting skullfucked by 30 bullets at once.

Good times :D Perfect description, and still an incredibly fun game. Oh yeah it was fucking awesome :) I was more a fan of the "put all your teammates in Bravo and Charlie, be alone in Alpha, have them provide decoy and supporting fire while I run as fast as I can and reverse-rambo my way out of this mess."
Usually ended up with me being the last one alive or every enemy being dead. Sounds a lot like ARMA3 ! The original Ghost Recon was an awesome game that the second one failed to live up to.  I haven't played a GR game since the second but this one might make me come out of retirement. jesus.....is ghost recon making a comeback? this game looks amazing and hopefully plays amazing The last ghost recon game was one of my absolute favorites of last gen. The game was amazing and it looked great on PC as well. I am actually worried the open world will mess with the tight, infiltration gameplay of the last one. Infiltrating compounds is probably gonna be similar, there's just gonna be a lot more options it seems. For those wondering, the song at the beginning, ya'know, the one that gives you the boner you have the rest of the time? 

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5sCoHk34MgQ That was imagine dragons? I had no idea. Sounds really good! Just hope I don't end up hating it like radioactive. I couldn't stand how much that song was overplayed. birch please, this will DEFINITELY be overplayed. Also, their new album is pretty good. If you like them to begin with, you may be interested. 

[LINK TO YOUTUBE PLAY LIST OF ENTIRE ALBUM](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wmjyO-r1OhA&amp;list=PLY12G7iTHW7JR4khFRrO92GuZq2nDP8V1&amp;index=6) Haha birch. Yeah I'll make sure to check it out after work. Thanks for linking the whole album. My phone doesn't like me to make the swearz. But now, I have embraced birch as a replacement for bitch in every day life. You son of a birch. Birch please. Smack my birch up, et al.  The bad guy has a giant upvote on his face!? This game is made for Reddit, eh!  Please please have split screen Co-op campaign.   That looks fucked  This guy fucks Tres Commas God, I already miss Silicon Valley. its so depressing though.  Even when they win, they lose. FUCK MOTHER! You mustn't engage in these people's lifestyle choices WHY YOU STEAL DADDY'S CAR? 

*cue rubber chicken* "Hey Russ, I've been known to fuck myself." WOW The NFS Transition from live action movie to game graphics was smooth as hell also... I was like WTF? in-game?

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cPVgwz5aN1o#t=25s I thought they just record the actors on green screen and overlay it on the in-game world. Yeah it's something like that, it's probably one of those virtual stages with camera tracking so they can be put in the 3D game environment. I think it's more video to game engine translation like they did in company of heroes. You can see the stuff lying around in the garage in the first part of the video. Once the camera pans to the car all that stuff is gone. Nonetheless a pretty smooth transition I was surprised as fuck at that too... Game looks damn near photorealistic Don't expect anything. It's says something along the lines that it is representative of how it will look on all platforms at the end of the trailer. Either way, the need for speed games are always fun but  graphics don't matter as much when you're going 200 mph! Indeed, I love the car customisation and races myself. But people who go after graphics shouldn't be too uplifted. Those camera shifts when the car turns are gonna make me sick. I hope you can turn that off... Yeah but once you got out of the garage the graphics slightly downgraded. This was the same for Most wanted too iirc.  Lol, where is the transition!? When the camera pans to the white car on the right. Hidden under the 480p compression. 0:25-0:35 The camera pans to an empty spot in the real world.  In post-processing, they add in the car from the game into the center of the shot, as well as filming the car from the in-game garage from the same angle.  They slowly swap the feed over from the real-world shot to the in-game shot, but by the time you notice it, the transition is complete. Fairly certain that to the right of the on-screen talent there was a green screen that the game footage was comped onto. Then, they matched the camera moves in post, more than likely After Effects. The tracking in it has gotten way better in the more recent versions. Whats with the cornering camera, i hate it , its so disorienting. Poor white hat... dude gets his shit pushed in all day long. What a far cry from the original Ghost Recon. Tactical squad-based gameplay? Fuck that, shoot outta the fuckin' jeep!!

;-; It looks like you can still do tactical stuff, they're just adding more options.  That's what I'm thinking too. Or it's more of a mix now. Sometimes it tactical, sometimes it's not. 

They even had examples in the trailer of tactical stealth gameplay.  Ehh they could blatantly say "you can still be as tactical as before but now you have other options" and people are still going to complain that the franchise has changed for the worst.  Elitism at its finest. They did that with metal gear solid 4 and it was awesome. As a result there was so much replayability. It showed the "guns blazing" approach, "stealth approach", or the "ambush" approach... so we can still be stealthy, you just don't have to be. They're trying to appeal to a bigger audience :/ Uh, I know that this is kinda unpopular here, but I liked the old Ghost Recon's and this is still really cool to me. Dude.... You're supposed to hate it because it's evolving like everything else ever... That is the first thing I thought.

"This must be the Farcry 4 engine."

Then the sniper scope came up... yup. I used to love the old GR games, much more than the R6 franchise. This looks like it's almost combining them plus the open world. 

But, I'll never forget how awful the last GR game was.  Not sure if you mean Future Soldier or Phantoms. Never played Phantoms, but I thought Future Soldier was really good. Maybe it's not what you expect when comparing to older games in the series, but I found it a ton of fun. Fortunately the original Ghost Recon games are available on Steam and Good Old Games and are still fantastic to this day. I tried to enjoy the newer games in the series, I really did, I even tried ARMA and other games, but in my opinion, graphics be damned, the original Ghost Recon is the perfect tactical military shooter. Nice to know that other people still remember GR when it was first person and tactical. [deleted] This was my first thought too. I remember when you didn't even see your gun in Ghost Recon! Some of the most intense firefights of my childhood were fought in that game. Interestingly this new Mexican adventure does sort of hearken back to GRAW in terms of setting. &gt;  I remember when you didn't even see your gun in Ghost Recon! 

This is why I know these comments aren't based on merit, but nostalgia. This is the most absurd thing ever.  Or it points to the game being more about gameplay than looks. All of the early generation Tom Clancy games used that gunless style, and they were all excellent. All shooter games prior to the Tom Clancy series were based on the Doom and Quake style titles where you would pick up ammo and health as you went through the levels, and fucking up wasn't really detrimental - the total opposite of what Rainbow 6 would be. Rainbow 6 and Ghost Recon totally redefined what a shooter game could be. gameplay &gt; visuals...  every damn day.  

I dont need to see a finely detailed HD half of a rifle sticking out in front of my screen.  I need decent gameplay.  A huge aspect of old Rainbow Six/GR games was the tactical aspect, the planning, the punishing gameplay, the "hardcore" damage setups where one bullet could change everything.  They were as much puzzle games as they were action/shooter games and that style of gameplay is just completely 100% dead in favor of run'n gun I don't give a fuck HD remix.   The fact that I hide my gun in almost every shooter I play tells me that this isn't true, especially in Quake and arena based shooters I was blown away by that transition. Seriously. FFS don't blow, thats a million dollars flying across the room now https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eujCeBC4Lh0 We're in bat country! As your attorney, I advise you to take a hit out of the little brown bottle in my shaving kit. You took too much men... too much! That's a lot of ruined coca. :/ You say ruined I say seasoned ok Trevor i like my cocaine covered in the blood of my enemies  I can remember someone commented in the E3 Monday Thread....

&gt; That's not how blood works. That's true, it's not how blood works. It's normally inside your body. But it's how I want blood to work. Well, technically, if you have a low platelet count in your blood, blood *could* work like that.

Heck, since the guy who lost the blood is in a cartel, he could have even been force-fed some drugs that reduce blood clotting before being tortured.   Why doesn't it work like that? It is a bad thing if all of your blood will leave your body as soon as a blood vessel is pierced.  None of us would survive our first cutting injury.

Instead, our blood has evolved to have things called platelets inside of it.  They are spread around throughout our blood stream, ready to stick together when they find an opening in the system.  If you've ever felt a blob of blood fresh from a wound, you can feel that it is a sticky liquid, almost like honey, which then seems to dry out fairly shortly after being exposed to open air.

In a perfect world, the platelets would only stick together along the edge of the blood vessel, and only when an injury occurs, so that the body can stop losing precious resources and return to normal function as soon as possible.

However, biological creatures aren't perfect.  The relative stickiness of a person's platelets can vary wildly from person to person.

With some people, the platelets might have a hard time sticking to each other, even when trying to close an open wound.

With other people, the platelets might have a little too much grip, and can stick together in large chunks in the middle of your arteries, causing a clot.

Obviously, both of these types of people might prefer to take some kind of medication to bring the grip strength of their platelets back to "normal" levels.

However, equally obvious is the fact that it is a very bad idea to give either type of person the medication for the other type of person, as extremely excessive amounts of anti-clotting medication mean that you could practically die from a paper cut, while extremely excessive amounts of pro-clotting medication could make blood stop traveling through your body (quickly depriving your organs of oxygen). Well /r/gaming is the last place I expected to learn something about blood clotting and platelets. It's a good transition. What I don't get is why they used strawberry syrup for the blood in a damn rendered trailer. Blood isn't that transparent.  it's ghost blood So, Ectoplasm? [I swear it was a spooky ghost!](https://media4.giphy.com/media/1482hCQhu36bq8/200_s.gif) Who say's it's blood? Maybe they just punctured a Red Berry Capri-Sun that he had in his pocket. capri suns are clearish. 

Source: 29 yr old that crushes capri suns.  I agree.

Source: 30 yr old who has a fanny pack full of snacks such as capri suns and gushers next to his fanny pack full of condoms he needs for all the pussy he gets for his fanny pack full of snacks.

Bitches love snacks. All these new games coming out for next gen systems. And I'm still playing destiny on ps3..... One of the reasons SOCOM died was because of trying to "appeal to a wider audience" :/ Or maybe they are trying to do something new and different. Better they change it up then run it into the ground with countless sequels repeating the same thing. That's great. Very clever What? Ghosts downgraded from elite special forces to elite narcotics teams? Real special forces teams do this kinda stuff all the time. Its not just terrorists that need killing you know.  I would know I have 300 confirmed kills Whoa whoa whoa
Are YOU the top sniper in the entire U.S. Armed Forces?
I have heard your story Oh yes. And if you cross him, you're fucking dead, kiddo. I doubt they do it all the time, but it's certainly not unheard of especially in the 80s. Apparently nobody remembers the first few missions of Island Thunder involved taking out drug shipments in Cuba... Delta was said to have taken part in taking down Pablo Escobar. Counter-narco operations were kind of thought to be a thing in the 80s. Think Tom Clancy's Clear and Present Danger. It's kind of old school, I like it. The Ghosts are a member of a Special Forces Group. The 7th SFG has been involved in Central America (their area of expertise) for decades.  You're not fooling me again, Ghost Recon. Your last game was absolute shit.  Future Soldier? I thought it was pretty good.  It was broken on release and there was very little communication other than a few posts on the forum saying "a patch is coming" for a few weeks.  The game's MP was dead before the patch arrived.

Just some issues I remember:

* SP progress getting deleted/not saving
* MP infinite loading screen
* MP getting put into empty game (if you make it in)

edit: formatting I was on console, so that may have made a difference, but I had none of those issues.  I bought 2 copies and had 2 360s (other player with me) going in my house with no issue whatsoever. Oh I dont know about that I downloaded it I was merrily playing the game on release date plus with no issues whatsoever. Multiplayer on 360 was phenomenal.  Whether it was good or not, it was not the spiritual successor to Ghost Recon 1 or 2. Nowadays sequels never are.  Its so clever and creative, it kind of blew my mind as I had to rewatch it a few times. Awww yeah, Dredd soundtrack right at the end of the trailer! why are all of the comments in this thread downvoted? Ubisoft circlejerk. Will there be single player as well? I hate forced co-op. Their website says single player or 4 player co-op. No worries! This game looks excellent. Super hyped. Really hope it doesn't dissapoint. And the original ghost recon remains the best of the series. Just saw it several times, it's still awesome From watching this I'm getting some Shadow of Mordor vibes with a ghost recon twist. I'm so happy someone went through the time to show this. I was super satisfied myself when I saw that! Its a good and simple idea made well.  
Its realy just a copy/paste of the ground geo retextured. dude its not simple. less than 1% of the people in this thread understand it, let alone making something similar.  Great trasition but thats just not how coke and blood mix, cocaine is a coagulant so it causes blood to clot, think mixing water and flour. But because of cokes blood clotting abilities and the fact that it numbs make it a near perfect emergency first aid tool for things like bullet wounds.

Source: I'm basically Tony Montana  Hah, next thing you are going to tell me that you can't hear explosions in space! You can't


Source: I'm actually Tom Hanks It's not blood and cocaine, it's strawberry syrup and sugar. Why would drug dealers be making a delicious, albeit lacking in most vital components, sundae? Because that was the important part of the trailer, right?

I bet they didn't even get the thread count on the dollar bills right either. Its almost poetic. As if to say the soldiers are literally fighting on a field of cocaine and blood. As soon as people stop paying for them. ding ding ding! shame, shame, shame
 Ding ding ding shame, shame, shame ding ding dong Oooooh, you touch my tralala... Mmmm my ding ding dong..  DU DU DU DUDUDU DU DU DU DUDUDU DU DU DU DUDUDU DU DU DU DUDU DU! You forgot moan! [My Ding-A-Ling!](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UaEC-lWSlmI) [MY Ding-A-Ling](https://youtu.be/XpuRC-IV7dY) I'm a Lannister. Suck me off!!! BROTHERFUCKER! THE ROYAL TITS! THE QUEEN HAS HAD MORE COCK THAN ME! "I'M A LANNISTER, SUCK ME OFF!" I wish the community would boycott games from developers known to release unfinished games/games that are incomplete without purchasing DLC.  The fundamental problem is that even if 0% of "the community" buys the game, the game will still sell to hundreds of thousands of people who don't know any better, or don't even realize it's complete and think it's fine. I know. It's impossible. Still though, I wish a large group of people would stop buying the bullshit that is being released. Just enough to make the producers to rethink their bullshit. It blows my mind how much I doubt the game industry now because of how many games have been complete shit. I remember being so excited for the division when it first got announced and now I have convinced myself that it will be one huge disappointment, whether it's broken or just plain bad.  I don't wish that, because those people are the ones funding my 75%-off working version of the game that I get one or two years down the road. The thing is just because you or I are extremely jaded when it comes to games and don't enjoy something doesn't mean hundreds of thousands of less critical buyers didn't enjoy it.  Even if gamers who make their own financial decisions stop buying the games, kids are being born every day who have yet to be screwed over by gaming companies.  The problem is that parents or grandparents buy games that don't work for kids  and the communication of the broken state doesn't impact the purchasing habits.  Because they'll keep buy "the new game in that series that they play all the time."  So a series can be milked for quite some time before poor release state impacts release day purchasing in a significant way. There seems to be a lack of self control among the gaming community. Players can't wait for the latest AAA title, or even the latest "meh, title that is super hyped."

No, you don't need to preorder anything. No, you aren't going to be top 10 on the leaderboards. No, you don't need to buy Mt. Dew and Doritios for "double XP bonuses." No, you aren't going to be the first one to complete the game/accomplish a specific task.

However:

Yes, the game will be available several weeks/months/years after release. Yes, the game will be cheaper. Yes, the game will be patched/fixed/bug free when you buy it several months later.

Maybe I'm just old now, but I see no benefit to preordering.

If the gaming community had a little more self control, and refused to buy games that weren't finished, this wouldn't be an issue. Unfortunately the appeal of "hats" and "being first" are too great.  Preordering was made 100% obsolete by the current generation of consoles and on PCs several years back on Steam. Preordering was for the purpose of not missing out on there being enough copies on release! The last thing I preordered was a GameBoy Advance at ToysRUs. Preordering now is just giving the publisher a fucking loan with zero interest! They start generating revenue off a game 6 months before its release. It's fucking genius!  Great points. With digital distribution, most publishers make their games available day one (if not, predownload, with a key that isn't valid until launch). No longer is quantity an issue.

Although Gamestop built their business on preorders with "exclusive" goodies from them or the publishers. People have old (and bad) habits. I've gone to a few midnight releases, and each time I was able to buy the same game everyone else "preordered." The community is way too big and reaches too broadly for that to work on someone like EA or Ubisoft Eh, there's a growing group of people who won't buy Ubisoft products, but they're mostly PC gamers.  PC gamers are the demographic that's ignored and has sales figures that are more or less never shared. Because Ubisoft makes the vast share of their money off of console versions of the biggest franchises  I'd argue that the community has proven it's not intelligent enough to determine what's incomplete without the DLC and what's complete and has DLC available.  We still have people freakout over DLC existing as a concept.  :/

Ultimately, most of the time if you're bitching about a game not being "complete" without the DLC, you're preordering, or buying without doing your research. 13 years olds come out every year with undeveloped hype centres of their brain. Back in my day you had to buy a magazine to get the final review, play the demo disc for about a week and then maybe see about one trailer for the game on TV at 11pm. Oh yes I was a gaming  connasieur back then!

We still had patches put in later copies of the game, but then if it didn't work on release 99% it didn't get released. Of it was shit.

One is literally born every minute. I use to love sneaking a pen and a notecard into Wal-Mart or target so that I could sit down with a cheat code magazine and copy them down!  Why not just take a picture of it with your cell phone? 

Wait...Fuck.  WELL SOMEONE HAS TO BUY IT TO FIND OUT IF IT'S BROKEN GAWD HAVING A SELECT GROUP OF PROFESSIONAL GAME TESTERS IS SOOOO 2012 Now THEY pay us and we call it "Early Access!" I used to buy two or three games a month. Other than Cities Skylines I haven't bought a game in well over a year. Unemployment's a bitch.  Could just be hookers and drugs. Porn and balloons. Once you start fucking balloons you'll never go back.  Its outstanding.  Plus when your done you just let go and it flys off.  
  
**EDIT :** Holy shit this got gold?  uh... thank you? Wouldn't it spray cum everywhere as it farted around the room? My wife does. And you laugh and laugh, until it takes a sudden turn and comes straight for you! Sounds like New Zealanders and sheep.

They fuck them at the edge of a cliff causing them to push back and when they are done (or anyone comes along) they give a final shove and the sheep/evidence falls over the cliff. That's a waste of perfectly good mutton. Yeah, talk about an expensive hobby. They even went through all the trouble of tenderizing the meat first! This whole thing comes up a lot, and the overall response is usually "yeah!", but it really doesn't work like that, for two big reasons.  

The first is that the developer/publisher don't know how many units of a given game will sell. Any estimate they make is the result of hamfistedly juggling data on demographics, and other subjective data, in order to form an objective conclusion. They can't take everything into account, which is why they'll often misread their audience.  
The result of that is that a sale is not the same as a non-sale.  
A sale sends a clear message of support for the product in the form of a +1, whereas a non-sale doesn't send any message at all.  
Imagine Reddit without downvotes, you lose the simple metric that allows you to tell whether a post or comment is just not popular, or whether it's unpopular.  
The point is that not buying *doesn't* send a message.  
Of course, if a game is crap then you shouldn't buy it, because that's just a responsible purchasing decision.  

The second is that the developer/publisher aren't in your head.  
As an example, if I looked at Fallout 4 and thought "that looks good, but not 50-good" and didn't buy it, how would they know *why* didn't buy it?  
Even if they were able to determine the number of people who would have bought it, but opted against it, they wouldn't know why those potential customers decided against it (and looking at the feedback on the internet is really not a good means of determining, since people will bitch at length about pretty much anything, creating a very unfavourable signal-to-noise ratio).  
All they would see is that interest in the product isn't as high as anticipated, and without the context of the individual decisions they can't know why, and the simplest conclusion is just that "gamers don't want another [series] game".  

The TL;DR of it is that not-buying a game doesn't provide any meaningful feedback.  
Don't buy games that are bad, but don't kid yourself into thinking you're making a meaningful change to the industry with just that act alone. The best way is a refund system. "Oh, we sold 100,00 units!" "Yeah but, 90% of those were refunded within the first five minutes." "Shit. We should probably finish the game huh?" Steam just got a refund function. Which is why it was hammered into them for years, so that we could have a better product and say in those products. Seriously, how is this not a thing for digital game son consoles yet? I spent more time downloading AC:Unity than actually playing it because it was an unfinished POS. The saddest part? It's still completely broken.  I also think there's another angle here, and it's simply that some issues can't be uncovered by the small testing team most developers have.  Once you have millions of users doing every possible combination of things, unforeseen issues emerge. I mean even to this day Minecraft is constantly updating bugs uncovered by its massive user base.

Unless of course you're nintendo... those fuckers are like the SAT of game testing. They'll delay a zelda game 2 years if it's not perfect. Yeah, but nintendo isn't exactly known for large-scale multiplayer content and they only have to worry about their products working on a single paltform. This is honestly the real benefit of piracy: you get to see what you're really paying for before you do. You don't buy a car without a test drive.

To be clear, I don't condone not paying for games or other media, I just think it's a good idea to be able to try them out to determine what they're worth before committing to buying them. Steam's refund policy seems like a good fix for this. Buy it, and if it sucks, get a refund. I haven't really tried that yet, but is two hours really enough time to figure out if the game is worth it? Not an argument, just honestly curious if that's enough time for other people. I think so. If you've read reviews, played for 2 hours and you still don't like it or think you'll like it, its pretty safe to assume you won't enjoy the rest. People pay to see movies based on 2 minutes trailers and reviews, and people buy cars based on 15 minute test drives and reviews. It seems like a 2 hour test when compared to other buying situations is more than fair, in my mind at least.
 I should hope 2 hours is sufficient to see if the game runs and is basically the game you thought it'd be.

I've heard they're somewhat flexible, so if something really bad comes up afterwards you should be able to make a case for it. I love this. Up until recently my policy was to pirate, test my pc, then buy or ignore. 
I stopped in October last 2013 because I got slapped with an 800 fine for a game that I couldn't even run. Ironically, it was the first game in its series that offered no demo...

Now valve has the best policy as far as I am concerned.



EDIT: A few questions about how I got caught. I didn't... The server I was downloading from got caught, and everyone else connected got caught, myself included. Once they had the server they caught me, and a few other people. The servers owners got hit with a pretty big fine. The server was found by Austria's version of the NSA.

I just got slapped with the fine and a cease and desist. 

&gt;They looked at the IP address. Matched it to a physical address and then sent a fine to that household. 

  This is a pretty accurate summation of how it happened. Bear in mind I am in Europe, that's how things are done in this country. Also this was the first time I got caught. It seems that they don't mess about with giving people a second chance here. I'm curious. Who caught you and fined you? ISP? Publisher? I'm curious about this too.  Normally you get a cease and desist or two before the fines start and that requires getting caught a few times before that. How the hell did you get fined for that?

Edit: I understand this is an illegal act in which you illegally obtain access to a item that is normally sold, essentially stealing it. What i do not understand is how in the hell he was caught doing that, with the insane amount of resources that would cost much more than the item stolen. Here in the US, most people get away with it, and some of those people do it regularly.  Yeah, I wish all games came with a short demo (especially to test on your PC hardware) so for those that don't I just pirate it to test the game and then buy it once I know it runs well. They used to... remember the good ol' days when PC Gamer came with a disk of demos for games they were reporting?

Pepperidge farms remembers. BRUH, demo discs were my life when I was a kid. My family didn't have much money for games, so I played the shit out of the demos of Legend of Legaia, Gex 3, Spiderman 2, and one of the NFL GameDay games. Kids today will never know the struggle...  Steam will refund your purchase for almost any reason as long as you have owner the game for less than 2 weeks and have played less than 2 hours. http://store.steampowered.com/steam_refunds/ [Considering Origin  has had that option for over a year its about time](https://www.origin.com/en-ie/great-game-guarantee)  Exactly, everyone knows the answer but still people would buy games day one, or early access and the bitch about them.  I don't think I've purchased a game since Dragon Age 2 that I've bitched about. I just really limit the titles that make me want to buy them Day 1 (even though I usually get them the Friday after they come out because of work) and those titles don't ever come from EA, Activision, or Ubisoft anymore. Link to the full interview? I want to hear their answer [Here is the exact spot on YouTube](https://youtu.be/Pjh1Uo_xaSQ?t=3h21m21s) That was a very reasonable response on their part. If you buy a game that advertises itself as early, or beta, then you can't turn around and be a victim. If on the other hand you release a game as done and it is broken you should not be making games. Shhhhh.  This GIF was supposed to make them look bad. http://www.giantbomb.com/videos/giant-bomb-live-at-e3-2015-day-01/2300-10378/

Interview with Phil and Kudo start at 2:02:55 This question starts at 2:18:30 Man, the dead silence after that question was satisfying. I found it genuinly satisfying because he fucking owned it and said "Yeah, we fucked up"  

That means they're at least paying attention.  That's good to know. Devs know. As a dev myself I know when something can be polished or enhanced. Producers and publishers are the ones that have to listen. I'm also a developer.  I agree, but I think they were talking about delivery and QA from a platform perspective, as well as a dev/publisher perspective.  Basically, MCC and other games were massive clusterfucks.  They've acknowledged that, and they are (saying they are) working hard to prevent future cluster fucks (I think the move to Windows 10 is going to help with that for Xbox).  The fact that the MS guy was the one to call out MCC by name while the host was only sideways hinting at it is honest and I like it. His answer to it was very well thought out though in my opinion  [deleted] They're going to require demos for all games so the consumer knows what it is before they buy it. They compare it to Steam's new refund policy. Well hot damn. A good question gets a decent answer. Is this... Is this *journalism*? Gerstmann (really all of giant bomb) is great at this kind of stuff. Only gaming news outlet I've trusted for a long, long while. (Taken from /u/Jux_'s comment)

&gt;"I would separate out, say, MCC from the Game Preview ... I think your point is valid ... MCC was 'we need to do a better job' ... &lt;interviewer mentions Steam's early access&gt; part of us saying that every game in the Game Preview Program needs a demo is part of us recognizing that we want people to put their hands on what they're going to pay for before they make the decision to pay for it, and that was an important part of the program for us ... The other thing is, to be honest, we're going to curate the list a little more on console. We found developers who have been in Early Access before, we want to expand the program, but we want to be careful ... we're going to learn from the Game Preview program." Well he kind of side stepped the question and only answered in regards to the game preview program they are doing and not actual game launches.

In a nutshell this is what they said:

Every game needs to have a preview or demo so fans can see what they are purchasing and paying for. That is the core of the game preview program. Certain fans want to be close to the development process, others just want to purchase a disk and pop it in, having it work completely. Developers want to release a demo/alpha/beta/whatever in a malleable state so they can make some changes on the fly, hence the alpha and betas that the consumers see (which isn't really what was asked IMHO). Then they went on to say that if it works, it is fantastic for both the developers and the consumer.

They also said that they hand picked the developers that are participating in the game preview program. Reputable studios that are reliable to put out a functioning game without glaring problems. But again, he seemed to only be referring to the game preview program and not the actual releases themselves.
 He did a good job of both owning up to it and responding to Jeff's questions.  I really like that Phil comes on the show, because they have thrown him a curve ball like that every year and he keeps coming back.   I like Phil Spencer a lot. Xbox has really turned around since he started running the show. Is it worth the full two hour watch?  I only planned to watch that one question, now I'm an hour into it.. Will defo be watching more GB vids! You need to check their game of the year content. It's literally a week of them locking the whole crew in a room and having knock down drag out deliberations on who deserves to win what categories. Giant Bomb E3 shows are always worth watching. Actually a really interesting interview, particularly the 360 emulation stuff!

In context they didn't bomb at all, quite the opposite. I fucking love Jeff.  This is the best example of why I love the Giant Bomb crew. They seem to be the only gaming outlet that really sees the state of modern games.

However they also have a habit of being cynical with can be infuriating, but I'm sure by now they've learned to control their hype. Can you begrudge Gerstmann his cynicism? He was probably probably the single most prominent reviewer at the single most prominent games review website and he was fired for, as far as we know, writing a single accurate review of a bad game.

Ahh Gerstmangate. That must be over 10 years ago at this point. I remember it like it was yesterday. Seven years. Short version of the story, yes he was fired for writing a negative review of a game that was advertising on Gamespot. 

However; this was because Gamespot was undergoing management turnover at the time and a guy with more experience in marketing than games journalism ended up in a position where he could make that decision. He didn't last long after. To be fair, he's stated multiple times that it wasn't *just* because of that Kane and Lynch 2 review, although that was the catalyst. 

Edit: For anyone curious, check out [this video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=GagFPnSG0j4) that Jeff and Jon Davison shot about the whole situation right after CBSi bought Giant Bomb. That moment literally made me not go onto gamespot for a good few years in fact I still don't really go on Gamespot or watch their stuff even though I know they seemingly produce some of the best stuff now.  Giant bomb and GameSpot seem to work together now for livestreams so it's long since blown over with them They are both owned by the same company  (CBS) now. Absolutley! And while that cynicism is a serious pain in the ass, when they're proven wrong they tend to step right up and say it.

I think it takes balls to ask a hard question like that to Phil Spencer. Especially sine it could label you or GB in general as a "hard interview".

Also, in the last couple of days I've seen their cynicism turn around when they were wrong about the hype train.

In that same interview Jeff fumbles over his words and becomes speechless when talking to them about his experience with Hololens just a few hours earlier.

And the entire panel of GB shit themselves when Xbox backward compatibility was announced. Jeff mentioned that too. How they never saw that coming, and had previously said it would never happen.

Every other "game site" I used to follow have become whores and click bait advertising sellouts.

Giant Bomb gets my $5 a month. I find it worth every penny.  I do as well. Not to mention their premium content is some of the greatest/dumbest content available. Love me some Mario Party Parties and Metal Gear Scanlon. NOBODY WINS It's a game of skill. Mario party alone is worth it.  "What turn are we on? 13/50." And the dead look in Jeff's eyes. &gt; Every other "game site" I used to follow have become whores and click bait advertising sellouts.

The Escapists. You used to be so good.  I don't think it was ever good, people only went there for Yahtzee.

Which is why he doesn't review EVERY major game title anymore to give the rest of the site something to do. They had plenty of other great content. Unforgotten Realms and Doraleous and Associates. Movie Bob, Extra Credits [(The whole fucking ordeal that caused them to leave.](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Escapist_%28magazine%29#Dispute_with_James_Portnow_and_Daniel_Floyd) This is when the pool started to fill with noticeable scum, 2011). LoadingReadyRun (My favorite). Critical Miss. Doomsday Arcade.  
  
Most of these are gone, or thankfully moved on to bigger and better things. But they had lots of other great shows and comics that kept me around.  
  
Now though, fuck em'. Burn the site to the ground for all I care.  Giant Bomb is my main source of gaming news. Even when I don't agree with them, they always make good points. I am ging to be premium member for life. :P
 I don't how I'd make it through a week without the bombcast, the beastcast is now the bridge between the next bombcast.  I almost don't even listen to music in the car anymore.  The beastcast brought Vinny and Alex back into the studio and its fantastic.  Austin's a great addition too Man I was missing some Vinny hard too.  I think the tone of the bombcast is different with him on, lighter and funnier.  So glad he is back at it.  I made the mistake of switching to IGN's stream after the Sony Conference. "Wow! What an exciting conference! Gotta give this one an 'A+'! Now lets go to the twitter booooaaaarrrrd!!!1!!1!" 

"@BadDick69xxX420Xxx says 'OMG COD ON PS4?!?! IS IT REALLY HAPPENING!? #orgasm #IGNrules"

"Thanks @BadDick69xxX420Xxx, now back to you geoff on how Sony owned E3!" Yeah, maybe I'm just overly cynical but whenever I see a comment like "omg that Battlefront trailer, Darth Vader is in it!" I just roll my eyes. BAH GAWD STAR WARS HAS STAR WARS IN IT #HYPE There's something about Jeffs jaded cynicism that I find comforting and hilarious.  Absolutely love every minute of their content The only cynicism I've seen from them is either personal (like Jeff Gerstman's embittered sarcasm and Alex Navaro's straight up hatred) or professional (in the form of being in the video games industry and watching absolute garbage come out of people who know better for decades).

Their cynicism tends to be either comical or from experiance. Fuck Ryan Davis ^^dont ^^hate ^^me ^^its ^^an ^^inside ^^joke ^^rip ^^big ^^buddy

 Hey everybody... It's Tuesday. China don't care China don't mind really. "I think i'm going to pass out" CHINA DON'T CARE! Fuck, Ryan Davis The best goddamn man in games journalism I tell you what Fuck, Ryan Davis. Holy shit never balled so hard in my life. Fuck, Ryan Davis I'm confused on why everyone is upset about the answer. Its phil spencer answering the question. He's the boss of Xbox, not of Ea, not of Ubisoft, not of Activision. He can't control the state of games other studios want to release.

Personally I think he gave the best answer he could. Forcing every future game to have a demo is the best way to ensure companies do well. If people can try the games before playing them, then people can know if a game is broken or not before buying. This will make companies try harder to actually release a good game, because now people don't have to pay to find out its terrible. 

Edit: I think demo was the wrong word to use. Elite: Dangerous and The Long Dark both had 60 minute free trials. This means play as much as you can in 60 minutes. Since the first to games of the preview program have this method, its safe to assume every other game will also just have a 60 minute free trial. Play as much as you can in 60 minutes makes it hard for the developer to hide a broken game. This eliminates problems people have mention like developers making the demo perfect, but leaving the rest of the game broken. No, it isn't a flawless plan as people have mentioned. Things like Battlefield 4 campaign loss bugs that take time to happen might not be caught, but it is much better than nothing and still encourages the developer to try their best to eliminate a majority of the bigger bugs.  Only early access games will have a demo, but still, that's the best way to handle early access games. Without hearing the answer, it looks like they were just laughing in his face as if that's just how things are.  Definitely wasn't a laughing response, maybe a little evasive. The question was broad, asking both about early access games as well as broken full releases, and they mostly only addressed early access by having demos.  The interviewer made a broad observation about the game industry and the state of games that gamers are starting to be exposed to, then he realized he wasn't really asking a question :P I agree with their answer that we need to make a distinction between early access and broken releases, but they didn't really answer his question which was geared towards the broken releases.  I think part of the issue is publishers pushing for exact release dates regardless of whether the game is ready or not.  Because publishers put millions of dollars behind game releases and timelines are critical to a good marketing plan. 

They can't push a game with a release date of "maybe later this year", and missing dates is a hell of a death knell to their momentum. 

I'm not arguing in favor of releasing unfinished games but this is pretty much what's going on. It's a struggle between creative and sales. Creative always wants freedom to produce while sales wants something they can use to get to fucking work. Creative says "whoah" and sales says "come on". 

At the end of the day the real goal needs to be better estimates for the timelines and proper staffing to meet those deadlines.  &gt;They can't push a game with a release date of "maybe later this year", and missing dates is a hell of a death knell to their momentum.

I mean, I get that this is the current state, but why can't they? Teasers exist in movies, sometimes with no release date. I could have sworn I saw the first preview for kingsman almost 2 years before release, and had, honestly, completely forgotten about it by the actual release. I still watched the shit out of that movie.  A lot of AAA titles have contracts to maintain with retailers. They tell Walmart, Best Buy, and Amazon they'll be coming out on an exact date nine months from now. That lets these retailers set up their storefronts and listings accordingly. It would be very expensive to violate this contract, even a couple months before the planned release date, to say "sorry, won't be ready, maybe a week later." because people forget about it two months later. The problem is the balance between making a good product and making as much money as possible as quickly as possible. Could they push the release dates out 6 months from what they anticipate needing? Sure! The game would certainly be better because of it. but that's 6 months of not having a new product on the market raking in cash. Some companies (like hello games) wait to announce a release date so they can make sure the game is great. But how much money is Hello Games making right now? Very little I would guess. Other companies err on the side of pushing a product quickly and sacrificing so much on making the game actually good and different. CoD is a great example of this. The franshise makes tons of money, but earns a negative reputation of being cheap and unimaginative. Finding the balance between art and business is hard.  I've been programming most of my life and I currently make my living as a senior programmer with decades of programming experience under my belt.  To this day it's a crap shoot if an estimate I can give you for a given project is accurate.  Sometimes it takes me less time.  Sometimes it takes me weeks longer than anticipated.

I would *love* to be able to given an accurate estimate every time, but I'm starting to doubt any programmer's ability to accurately estimate the timeline of any sufficiently complex program. This is the giant bomb late show. People come on it drinking. It's supposed to be a show where you can let your hair down after being a PR guy for 12 hours. These guys all know each other and are just trying to make each other laugh and be honest with each other in a casual setting.

Don't take anything said at the late show as true. For example: I still don't know what firewatch is. Weren't you paying attention! Firewatch is about throwing stuff at naked teens and emotional explosions!  What was the answer? or source video would also suffice. [Full Question](https://youtu.be/Pjh1Uo_xaSQ?t=12082) Phil answered that perfectly. The Preview Program seems to be the best way to go about preventing titles from releasing in broken states. What worries me is AAA games doing this. This would work for indie developers, but the Preview Program doesn't say anything about big titles being released with bugs and issues.  That was accually a pretty good answer

edit: spelling It caught them off guard. This was supposed to be a fun post-day hang out and talk sorta deal, I just finished watching all 4 hours and this was really the only serious question the entire show. Going in expecting funtimes and getting a journalistic justice piledriver really makes someone do a double take.

The response was basically "we're trying to improve things, this is why demos are required for xboxs early access things"

Jeff then referenced Halo mcc and they just apologized.

The also said something about if their Early Access becomes as much of a shitshow as steams they'll shut it down, which is a pretty bold claim this early on. I Think the answer here is

STOP FUCKING PREORDERING GAMES

and

WAIT FOR THE REVIEWS AFTER IT COMES OUT BEFORE YOU BUY SOMETHING

edit: (and the wealth of other information sources, like user reviews, game support forums, gameplay vids, people online complaining)

I mean, if I was in an industry where I could keep having my userbase test our products for us and they would still keep coming back, you can bet your ass I will keep doing it. DO LIKE ME: GET A JOB AND HAVE NO TIME TO PLAY. BOOM SHAKALAKA! Currently in my backlog -- 


- Restarting Mass Effect 1 - got off track half way through. would like to finish

- Mass Effect 2

- Mass Effect 3

- Fall Out New Vegas

- Witcher 2 (the first bits, but have no idea where I am now)

- Witcher 3

- Dragon Age Inquisition

Having a job sucks If you play the witcher before DA Inquisition, you probably wont be playing DA..
 Dude, it's gonna be like 2019 by the time you finish all of those. But I know the feeling :(

 https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mOLxlzrxCv0 Wait til you have a kid  Preorders are not the **reason** games are released unfinished.

There is not a single reputable game developer alive who says "Hmm, my game's not finished, but 5% of my userbase have already preordered it, so fuck it, I'll just release it anyway, those dumb suckers!"

Games are released unfinished because they have a strict deadline imposed on them by publishers, they mistakenly agree they can complete the game in that timeframe, and they ambitiously try to make the game better than they can realistically achieve. Those are the 3 step by step causes of unpolished games being released. 

Every developer would love to have more time to make the game, but they don't, so they have to release it. Every developer would love to have enough time to polish their game, but they ALWAYS have more improvements they want to make, right up to the end of the project. So they either ship an inferior but polished game, or an ambitious but unpolished one. It's increasingly rare to be able to do both, not because of greed, but because of how difficult it's becoming. Then if you're like me, you don't complain about games that have glitches because you're just that fucking excited to play batman.

I'm so fucking excited.  but no, I really am going to preorder fallout 4 and get my fucking PIP BOY.  I would, but I know how I am and that thing will be sitting on a shelf, untouched for years and eventually probably get knocked off the shelf and broken in some way. A few years later I will find it buried in a drawer along with my sonic screwdriver, and light saber I bought off the web, and I'll think to myself, damn I wasted some good money on this shit. It's just plastic bullshit that I didn't need.

The game play is what's important, well, that and the save file.

 [deleted] The trick is to find a reviewer who generally has the same reaction to games that you do. but that's dumb. witcher 3 has run smooth as butter for me since launch, literally two crashes in 133 hours of gameplay, no graphical glitches at all, and yet all i see everywhere is people bitching and complaining about constant crashes, game breaking glitches, and their cards not running the game the way the card should be capable of. so on your theoretical website i'd give an emphatic YES to "is the game working?". but then you might be one of those guys crashing all the time. a simple yes/no just isn't specific enough.  Pretty much any semi big PC game has people complaining about their setups  And that's literally the biggest downside to PC gaming IMO, multiple hardware vendors and configurations, along with drivers, that could be causing any of those issues for any number of people who don't know what they are doing.  Consoles have limited hardware configurations to cause issues. The Witcher 3 has been so weird with it's glitches. I see the community complaining about glitches that don't affect me at all, then I get a random glitch where most of the doors in my game wouldn't open and I could only find one other person online experiencing that glitch. It seemed like you got different glitches depending on what choices you made. &gt; It seemed like you got different glitches depending on what choices you made.

Oh the depth of this game I've run into 4-5 quest glitches already and 2 of them are still unresolved and I can't finish the quest. I still feel that it's an amazing game, but I can't help but feel disappointed. Steam reviews is perfect, it also includes how many hours that player had sank into the game. And if it doesn't work, boy they will let you know  Steam reviews are awful. They are usually something like: 

- played 3000 hours

- "Yeah, I guess you could say I played a little bit" \&gt;Saw a bear

\&gt;Set bear on fire with flamethrower

\&gt;Bear runs into a cave and sets three more bears on fire

10/10 would bearbque again Best part about steam reviews.  If you post a negative review because a game is broken and only have a couple hours of "play" time people will lambast you that you never even tried to play it because you have not played for 100s of hours yet.

Yea the game is broken and is unplayable. The exact opposite is true.
"This is the worst game ever."
-1253.6 hours played

There is no right answer it seems.  Man, -1253.6 hours is tough to get. I think it would be nice to have a site that reviews the companies behind games and not the games themselves.  People can look back on a specific developer and see which of their previous games were considered "broken" on release and how long until they patched the major issues.  That way you can have an idea what to expect.

Edit - Just so people know, if **I** were to make a site like this I wouldn't allow user reviews or comments to affect the site's reviews.  I'd probably create a system to track various easily qualities like DLC, actual release date versus advertised release date, and a bunch of other stuff I can't quite think of now.  It wouldn't be based on "feels".  I would also absolutely **not** allow advertising on the site from game developers or platforms.  Well, platforms shouldn't be bad.  I would want to keep away from conflicts of interest.  I might do reviews of games, but if so they will all be purchased at the actual release date and not a free copy sent to me or a reviewer.  

Basically I'd want as much honesty in regards to what to expect from a game, by a specific company, as possible. What is this from? I would like to watch the whole interview. [Here ya go!](http://www.giantbomb.com/videos/giant-bomb-live-at-e3-2015-day-01/2300-10378/) Interview starts at 2:02 that should read 2h and 2m They have to meet shareholder expectations for revenues.  Pushing a product out another month and missing the earnings forecast could means hundreds of millions in stock values being wiped out.  So do you hand in an incomplete term paper to meet the deadline or take the zero? Not that i entirely agree but that's a great analogy.  As soon as the giant olympic swimming pool of money dries up  I think this more on the publishers fault probably setting a date thats unreasonable for the devs  Answer is good though

" We think early access games should give demo" 

steam now refund program, so if u dont like an early access game and if u play it less then 2 hours. you can refund unless you put the game in a package with a virtual item that is instantly redeemed.  

Just like what Rockstar did with GTA 5 during the steam sale. Asking the question on everyones mind The hero we deserve. This happens because development is kept on a very tight schedule as determined by the marketing department and company executives with little, if any, knowledge of the state of the game or what finishing development entails.

If you are a developer and they decide to release the game, it will mean cutting features and corners to ensure the deadline is met. 

For example, consider a physically distributed game, say Assassin's Creed. Marketing decides they want to ship for the Holiday season of that year. In order to get all the discs made up and distributed, you will have to have a working copy of the game ready, say 6 months in advance. You could work nonstop night and day, but you will invariably still have some bug(s)/issue(s) unresolved or incomplete content by that deadline. Unless it is something devastatingly game breaking, marketing/company execs will still ship the game for distribution and you will be left to push out any remaining fixes/content in the first update after release.

This is why smaller game development studios can have such a good reputation, less bullshit to deal with in order to ship a complete game.

Pre-ordering and reviews will generally have ABSOLUTELY NOTHING to do with the state of the game at launch.



 Jeff is great. Some people think he's just super pessimistic but he just really aware of where the industry is at right now and all the negative aspects of it. He's been in the industry since he was 16 he's seen everything and knows when people are getting fucked, just recently he made a fairly passionate speech about how Valve had to bring in a refund policy since people are getting sold unplayable games more and more often. My policy is wait for the goty edition. By then the game is usually cheaper, all the content that should have been included in the original is available and most of the bugs have been worked out. Also the hardware necessary to run the game in the first place is usually much cheaper as well. The question is at 3:22 

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Pjh1Uo_xaSQ Gerstmann is a pimp and a batman.  It's reasons like this that make Giant Bomb my favorite video game journalism site

Also has Kudo always looked like Jeff bridges?  To answer your question: yes. Yes he has. 

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eQCJ6caGAIY Developers not to be held to the fire when it comes to deadlines and the public not to lose their shit when games are delayed.  Exactly. Everybody bitches when an incomplete, broken game is shipped but the outrage is even greater when a hyped game gets delayed. Gamers are such fucking children...we want our giant, beautiful, flawless games and we want them RIGHT NOW. We also don't want to pay very much so there's a good chance we will bitch about it if it gets delayed and then wait for a steam sale anyway. I think the thing is, we really need to bring the demo back. There used to be demo/shareware versions of everything but that went out of style. Aside from that, I don't know what all the fuss is about. We live in an era of more fantastic games. As a veteran of the Anarchy Online rollout I just feel like there is a lot of whining about WHY DO I HAVE TO PAY FOR THINGS as well as I AM FRUSTRATED WITH SOMETHING THIS IS UNACCEPTABLE. Anarchy Online is a great example because I believe they HAD to release if there was going to BE a game, and it turned out to be an incredibly good game and one of the very very few MMOS still running from that time period.

tldr; as a community we gamers have become spoiled entitled brats. Honestly?  Less complex games, or a more demanding consumer.  Even Apple products are shipping as mature betas these days.    
  
Statistically, once you reach a certain level of complexity, only extremely large test populations will uncover all of the bugs. There's simply no way of beta testing to an arbitrary sigma level without a public release (consumer products) or massive amounts of money (DoD products).  If people were cool paying $3500 for a game, we could probably get to DoD level QA pretty easily (which is still far from perfect). Gotta love the out of context GIF.  Still though - kind of tough making two people answer for an industry-wide problem.

 he could've asked that question to the makers of Hitman and Kane and Lynch. His opnions on Kane and Lynch is well documented. As a student from Bath who gave us a guided tour of Berlin last year once told me... "True power is where you choose to spend your money."

Further to that, he also says (more or less) that despite the fact we can actively choose wherever to spend our money, we almost always give it to the big corporations. Furthermore, we will still keep giving it to people who fuck us. Companies could literally bend us over and go balls deep without lube, daily, and we'd be like... 

"Paypal or Direct debit?" The blame for this doesn't fall on one single party. Consumers need to stop preordering and buying games willy-nilly just because they are they next in a beloved series.  Publishers need to stop giving developers unrealistic timelines and rushing games out the door.



Really, more games just need to have more betas and demos.  Well, you know, if people stopped preordering games maybe they would stop shipping broken garbage. 

Don't give them money before you know if the game is good or not, idiots. It's 2015. You don't need to reserve a game as a hedge against sell-outs anymore. They dodged the question, making a quick reference to needing to do a better job on Halo: MCC, not controlling third party developers and then talked about the Game Preview program. 

Here's what I transcribed from it. The interviewer had prefaced the question mentioning Assassin's Creed and Halo:MCC needing patches:

&gt;"I would separate out, say, MCC from the Game Preview ... I think your point is valid ... MCC was 'we need to do a better job' ... &lt;interviewer mentions Steam's early access&gt; part of us saying that every game in the Game Preview Program needs a demo is part of us recognizing that we want people to put their hands on what they're going to pay for before they make the decision to pay for it, and that was an important part of the program for us ... The other thing is, to be honest, we're going to curate the list a little more on console. We found developers who have been in Early Access before, we want to expand the program, but we want to be careful ... we're going to learn from the Game Preview program."



 I actually think he answered pretty well. They can't really control how/in what state developers release games, but they can force every game to have a demo. 

If every single game has a demo, then you can try every single game before buying. Meaning you'll know if the game is broken before spending your money on it. This forces developers to do a good job, because otherwise people won't buy it if the demo is bad.  I wouldn't say they dodged the question. They went on to talk about a project providing early access to users who have a desire to give feedback before release, and also offering demos for games so people can experience the game before paying for it. To be fair, they probably didn't have much choice in how they answered.  Sure, they're part of the system, but they didn't create the system.  What could they say that wouldn't directly insinuate their company, and thereby put their jobs at risk, and probably screw them out of other job opportunities.

It doesn't make it right, but a couple of guys telling the truth would not actually change much immediately other than their employability.

The only other response would be to insult the consumers for being stupid enough to drink the kool-aid.  That's still career suicide. they didn't dodge the question. They said that developers preferred to open up early access so their solution was to give free trails on all games. If the can't control the sources ability to make a finished product then they can change the purchasing process to let you have a choice on if it's finished or not. A twenty year old problem.  How is this scathing?  PC games have been released and patched to make them work forever.  We buy, they rush to market.  Console or PC makes no difference.

Edit: words One of the interesting things I saw when I watched "the making of" on the halo 3 special edition disc was them talking about a specific bug on beachhead.  They suspected that you could get out of the map by jumping, but they play tested and play tested and play tested, but never once could they get out, so they couldn't really patch anything because it seemed impossible.  

Lo and behold on the day one release there was a youtube video of someone jumping up and out of the map in legitimate gameplay.  Sometimes game developers don't experience bugs in their play testing of the game to see to patch them.

There are exceptions of course, like Dead Island's day one release on steam where right after the tutorial you spawned in under the map...  How someone misses that is beyond me... All you guys do is bitch but at very least we don't have to pay 50 bucks for a game we've never seen gameplay for and pray its not completely broken in every way like people back on nes Games are never going to be 100% perfect at launch due to an inconceivable amount of client based problems that cannot be taken care of or pinpointed until field testing. You can closed beta test all you want but nothing beats 10s of thousands of gamers telling you what is broken or wrong. Phil did a great job answering the question too.

 This problem is very complex.  As I believe games like Killing Floor 2 made by Tripwire released a strong beta and is not a triple A title.  It also is a small company that needed the cash flow to continue development.  So, the problem becomes educating people on the difference between Ubisoft, EA and Bethesda versus your small time developers who are not linked to any major distributors either.  

We need a new kind of review site.  One where the interface easily shows us a strong separation of game title by affiliation; by title Expected quality; cost estimates; current State of the Game; pricing; testing; and if released whether the game is a worth purchasing in current state.  This should place all the large developers on notice that we are not going to pay for them to release broken games and that they expect us to pay extra to fix later. 

However, we won't destroy the indie community at the same time.    I remember when there was some big name game coming out a few years ago and everyone was bitching because it kept being delayed so they can finish it.

Now we get the games sooner, and have access to developer updates that fix issues that we complain about... but they're virtually unplayable out of the box.

We will never be happy. I suppose when people stop preordering. Or if they stop supporting companies who do that no matter how much they want the next big game. What ticks me off is shipping a broken game that has DLC on launch day.  The game is clearly not ready, and you want me to pay more money on launch to get the full experience.  I have no issue paying for a good expansion, map pack, etc, as long as the original game holds up on release.  The DLC should be free at that point or just part of the original game.  How many times have we've gotten a game and the DLC felt like it should have been included in the first place?  
 Just curious, but did Gerstmann ask this question to any other person at this year's E3? Not trying to sound like I'm defending Microsoft for the MCC, but considering the amount of broken games released this year and the previous year, I'd be curious on what other developers' answers might have been. You killed the rat controlling him!  You mean OP set him free. What is with your dumb username? I don't know which one is the real one! Throw each of them this kryptonite.. The real Superman will kneel over and die! then we'll know who the fake is! Nice try, Lex. So does that mean shoot both will be a better solution? *keel over they could feasibly kneel instead Zod wrote that.  [deleted] Well done detective. Case closed. We did it Reddit! WHICH ONE DO I SHOOT??? I'm seein' double here. [Four Krustys!?]( http://i.imgur.com/zinRSZc.png) We got a Bizarro over here. *So much time without love....* REMY! Lacroix? The internet is for porn. So grab your dick and double click for porn porn porn. Never in my life did I think I'd see an Avenue Q reference go together with Remy Lacroix. I love the internet! Dat ass.  No, it's La-CWAH. You mean the brain normally isn't in the stomach? YOUNG LADY, I am an expert on humans Now stick out your tongue and say "zzrbbrrfrrrbbbrrrpprrrbbrrrprprp"  "Ahem...zzzvvzzvzzvvvv"  What?! My mother was a saint! Get out. http://www.gfycat.com/TimelyNarrowAmericanrobin He killed the little chef! Is ze rat important? https://youtu.be/kxdQMziixmg That... that is strangely mesmerizing. That... is hilarious.

 fuck the rat
 Fuck the king Too old. Too soon. Poor Remy. LaCroix? Is there any other?  [Buxaplenty.](http://i.imgur.com/htZeL1F.png) Only on reddit will you see a reference to a porn star and a kid's cartoon show in four comments.  You can see a reference to a porn star and a kid's cartoon show in one comment on 4chan. You can see a kid's cartoon show *as* a porn star on both. Lol the haker 4Chan strikes again! Well on 4chan, they'd be the same comment Haha nice memory He's 10.  Danton. [LeBeau](http://i.annihil.us/u/prod/marvel//universe3zx/images/3/33/Gambit442.jpg) Sigh... *unzip* Obligatory /r/remylacroix  House of Cards  Is it La-KWAH or La-CROY? In Metro 2033, I once one-shotted a bandit by throwing a knife at what is commonly known to be a vital organ for Russians:

The Vodka bottle he was holding in his hand. You can also hit them in the cabbage The beets is also a correct choice. As is the turnip. Not my cabbages!!! Maybe it was a situation [like this.](https://youtu.be/izh-j8KUYjs) That guy's probably still laughing at how he fooled you. http://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/en/9/93/Coneheads_Poster.jpg French chef. ...from France. It is as if you have grabbed me by the base of my snarglies. Due to the fact that you have so few upvotes, I'm gonna say no one else caught the Coneheads reference. Affirmative! I was just about to [post this](http://static.gamesradar.com/images/totalfilm/t/the-coneheads-coneheads-.jpg). https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qztxrASEBtY What about [this guy?](http://img2.wikia.nocookie.net/__cb20070930185700/starwars/images/9/9e/KiAdiMundi.jpg) [This guy?](http://3.bp.blogspot.com/-Xzg4H4FF1eQ/TzxcT6ZUCdI/AAAAAAAAAO8/drYlGjEET4s/s1600/egg-head.jpg) White Huell? Yes. Gabe Nuell's cousin.  the guy looks like his heart is in his skull. That's because it is I didn't know this existed... I still didn't even believe it until the last couple seconds.. This is my new favourite commercial of all time. 




And I should throw in that I don't even like watching normal tv because of the commercials. So that's a pretty big deal. I hope state farm appreciates the privilege whitestguyuknow has given them. Well now you've posted it. Good job. Who you callin pinhead? [Pinhead Larry](https://s-media-cache-ak0.pinimg.com/736x/d8/ca/2f/d8ca2fb21828eb8e08ea1ea672003675.jpg) Parental units? It was a ~~90s~~ slang term that was actually coined by that ~~movie~~ SNL sketch, I believe.  It's an angsty and disaffectionate way of saying "parents."  

http://www.urbandictionary.com/define.php?term=parental+unit It's way older than the 90's, Coneheads have been around since 1977 on SNL.  I think its part of the first sketch even. The first sketch is from 1975 and it's John Belushi seeing a psychiatrist (psychologist maybe?) where he says, "I would like to feed your fingertips to the wolverines." Haha I forgot that was the very first sketch.  I meant the first Coneheads sketch :P  [I think this is it](https://screen.yahoo.com/coneheads-home-000000304.html) Oh I get what you meant now, I just misinterpreted, sorry about that.  I still quote that line.  Any time someone starts to say "I would like..." I interrupt them with "... to feed your fingertips to the wolverines."  &gt; It was a 90s slang term

...No? No one really knows for sure what percent of chefs are coneheads.  We only know they're everywhere. Maintain low tones Funny how Aykroyd ended up becoming the UFO nut that he is now...

And by "funny" I actually mean "sad". I'm not sure exactly what you mean. If it wasn't for Aykroyd's interest in the occult and paranormal, we wouldn't have *Ghostbusters*. He is a guy with a lot of different interests; I don't see how that's sad.

If you really want a sad UFO nut, look up Tom DeLonge (formerly of Blink 182). I... don't.... see..... anything sad in his biography? I think they mean it's sad because he's screwed up Blink-182. And that's sad for humanity No, he's sadly gone somewhat crazy from what I've read.

&gt;Search Tom DeLonge alien. I pulled up a ton of articles on it. [Here's one.](http://www.papermag.com/2015/02/tom_delonge_ufo_interview.php) Oh.. Well.. That's pretty gladdening.. Thanks, I'll read into that and look up some more.  I've never been the type to get into any type of paparazzi type stuff, like tmz, or really anything much to do with celebrity's personal lives. Even though I've always loved Blink-182. So even just hearing about Tom a while back was a surprise. I guess this *really* shouldn't be *too* shocking thoug Better hitboxes than CS:GO hatboxes TF2 ? [My hitbox vs. enemy hitbox](http://imgur.com/fjGxY84.jpg) [So your enemies are goombas from the movie](https://www.denverlibrary.org/files/Super%20Mario%20Bros_2.JPG)?

[And I guess you are a goomba from the game?](http://vignette2.wikia.nocookie.net/fantendo/images/4/4e/Goomba.png) What the fuck is with the movie one.  [It is a dark time in video game history](http://www.imdb.com/title/tt0108255/) CS:GO wants the same hitboxes for [this guys helmet cover](http://images.akamai.steamusercontent.com/ugc/613895702369189537/148FE4F24AF19099EB7A461B5E869CD7B3C91AE0/1024x576.resizedimage), for some reason... Reynad? Yes and this confirms  it: http://i.imgur.com/T1uy7ll.jpg Snuffalufagous Is that Reynad? Yes, his nose is bigger than normal in this picture, that's why he looks so funny. 5head Came here for this. Same was not disappointed  I totally expected this to be in the comments. Must be the [the Leader](http://img4.wikia.nocookie.net/__cb20050407054452/marveldatabase/images/3/3f/Leader_001.gif) with makeup on. [The leader is good, the leader is great. We surrender our will as of this date!](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RPpv9lAtr8M) BAT-MAN! I mean... LEA-DER! I LOVE THE LEADER Fish-innnnnnn' reminds me of [this fine gent](http://www.wearysloth.com/Gallery/ActorsF/6183-19402.jpg) What game is this? Looks like Hitman: Blood Money. Think it's the Dance with the Devil mission. Blood Money is the bomb. This game so fucking great. They kinda screwed the sequel. They conentrated to much on the graphics and not enough on the open world. I hope the next one will go back to the roots None of it was open-world iirc, and it wasn't even about assassinations anymore, it was segmented Splinter Cell.  If y'all want really really open world, you go for Hitman 2: Silent Assassin. Some of those mission maps were HUGE. Yeah but that game's awful.  It's sad you have to scroll this far down to find this. Should be tagged in the title!  It's sad there are people who don't recognize that bald head Well, I just played absolution and even I was wondering which particular hitman game this was. Best in series. I believe it's a Hitman game, not sure which one. Hitman Blood Money Thank you! Also, question: would you suggest the Hitman games? I was looking at either the Crysis collection or hitman colleciton Would recommend blood money, contracts and  absolution all for different reasons. They're  all good   in their own way :) Do Absolution on the hardest difficulty from the beginning. It's a really cool, organic experience. No HUD - just visuals and sounds to rely on, so you have to learn everything through subtle environmental cues. No "YOU ARE CARRYING A GUN" or "YOU HAVE BEEN SPOTTED" warnings covering half the screen; just slight changes in sound and color on the display.  

Seriously **hard as fuck** though, so only do if you like death, have mega patience and are prepared to master each level totally on your own to progress, but it is a really rewarding, unique experience. I wish they had a difficulty level that was like that but easier so more people could experience it that way. the mission "Curtains Down"  in HM:Blood Money, is perhaps one of the most perfect missions ever put together in a video game. Getting a Silent Assassin rating on that mission is pure poetry in the execution, as you set death itself in motion, in a chain of events that look like a series of tragic accidents that removes a child-molesting Diplomat from the world stage.

And you? You were just another face in the audience. everyone saw you the whole time, you didn't even ruffle your tuxedo. You collect your coat, exit into the cold night air and catch a cab home. Nobody would even remember your were ever there.

 I'd say no to Absolution. Every other game in the series is a ton of fun! Absolution just took the game and made it more of an action game than the classic stealth based fun I love Roller Coaster Tycoon! Platinum Edition. See, this shit is why Goldeneye should never be forgotten, no matter how poorly it's aged. You shoot a guy's hat, his hat flies off. You shoot his gun, nothing happens (Perfect Dark allowed you to disarm enemies this way). The enemies weren't just walking bricks of meat. They were designed to react according to where you shot them. Even in DK mode, where their heads and arms were inflated, the hitboxes were stretched to the proper dimensions. GE wasn't the best FPS ever, it hasn't aged well, but goddamn, that game was insanely ahead of its time. More like "fivehead" amirite? Guys?... Guys!?! http://i.imgur.com/D4fAJGu.gif https://media4.giphy.com/media/s5NXY1FJpswjm/200.gif Movies need to be this violent again. Thats awesome. https://media0.giphy.com/media/JLNecFlPy0OA0/200.gif http://i.imgur.com/xk9O3ih.gif https://media2.giphy.com/media/5HBuZQnOZNfck/200.gif [NSFW](http://gfycat.com/NaughtyChillyBunting) Weren't these *all* violent enough to be NSFW? This one had penises, though.

And of course, we all know that penises are the most offensive thing ever. Heeeey, you guys! *Workin' at the carwash* /r/fiveheads I think we'd be solidly into six- or sevenhead territory at that point. Gerald from hey Arnold This chef must have been...

(_) 

( _)&gt;- 

 (_)

...in over his head
 Cone Head. Peyton Manning NOOOO! He just wanted a chicken parm Literally the only time I can think of a commercial consciously affecting my buying decisions was that commercial making me buy a chicken parm sandwich. RIP Summit1G can i get some 1Gs in the chat 1G HE WAS FROM FRANCE!!!! That's why Chefs wear those hats.

They need to grow their brains vertically to store all the recipes.  Ki-Adi Mundi? Poor Reynad... The mans profession is his life. You take his hat and he has nothing.^nothing The plot to Team Fortress 2. No. Agent 47 is just that good of an assassin.  That's O.J. Simpson man he gotta big fuckin' head! 4Head
 He's probably just [faking it](http://i.imgur.com/ceRMktZ.jpg) Even The Leader is forced to take low-end jobs in this economy. Pinhead Larry who you callin pinhead? No I'm dirty dan It was Beldar after the relocation program. Such a shame... I think Charlie Kelly had a hand in making this game: http://imgur.com/QdBy4P5 He had a fivehead Welp! Time to reinstall the trilogy. Must be Peyton Manning. "This kills the Ratatouille." Reynad? Maybe he's from Castle Crashers... (http://farm4.static.flickr.com/3140/4596393461_14e063fd46.jpg) I JUST finished playing bloodmoney a couple days ago and that mission with the heaven and hell parties is by far the best one in the game. You killed his symbol of leadership, his chef hat. r/fiveheads Only this would make csgo players not complain about hit boxes. So Peyton Mannings a chef now. Awww shit he just started an intergalactic war by killing a Conehead.  [He's a jedi (heartshot)](http://i.imgur.com/prNKHyW.jpg) Some people have big foreheads. Stop the hate! [deleted] This reminds me fondly of those rosy days when I was playing JFK Reloaded, and my main goal was just to shoot off Jackie's hat.  He was a chef back in Remulak. We come from France! Chef Peyton Manning. The Peyton Manning of chefs. FYI everyone:  voat.co is back up!  The migration is on! CONEHEAD REVEALED Forehead big enough to get him a role on Code Lyoko... He must be from France The hat is the source of all his power. He prolly in Grim Fandango He comes from France.  France..[we come from france](https://s-media-cache-ak0.pinimg.com/236x/e9/45/48/e945480ce31243a5cfc894ff3a03d678.jpg) omg you killed Reynad :'(
 France!  He comes from France. conehead! Game? 5 total mentions of cone head thus far! what game is this
 Maybe [he's French](https://youtu.be/dD-vAWecEus?t=13s) Draw it someone. Which hitman game is this?  "Damn he figured out my only weakness, and I thought the hat would cover it so well" Found this looking through the developer tools interface.

PA system failure has occured.
Shutdown of the Masterbrain has been authorized and all sensitive materials have been removed for security purposes.
Please attempt re-access. Have a pleasant day. Hehe, they also named some of the scripts. "institute.js" which contains what appears to be the countdown script! Sooo this one *is* set in the Commonwealth, as many have speculated. We can only hope. Android wars are a coming!! PC is an escaped Harkness-esque android who has to evade then infiltrate and disrupt the Institute, who are planning something indescribably evil.

^^please?
 What is the Commonwealth? I haven't heard much about this game  The post apocalyptic remnants of Massachusetts. Hence "Institute" meaning, in all likelihood, MIT.  MIT of future does well for itself, forms the closed-off "Commonwealth". There's a quest with one of their members in FO3 regarding an escaped android you're asked to locate in Rivet City. took me ages to find that fucking android **TRIES DESPERATELY TO FORGET THE SURVIVOR 2299**    
     
IT'S TIME EVERYONE I literally teared up reading this:( It's okayit's over nowwe canwe can trust again... *Voiced by Ron Perlman*

"Introducing the Fallout 3 &amp; New Vegas HD Bundle for next gen systems" 

- FALL 2015



 Someone will die It will be the 10 times the size of the Baltimore riots. ISIS might even issue a threat against Bethesda.  No, Isis is evil they would help distribute the dlc. War. War never changes.

But it can look better with all new textures and dynamic lighting! Fallout: HD: The Vault Dweller Collection coming to Xbone and PS4. Fall 2015! I'd buy it. And [this](http://imgur.com/WJJLnze) just took place on facebook. I could cry right now. Great day, or greatest day? What a day, what a lovely day! This is gonna be soooo chrome [WITNESS!!!](http://i.imgur.com/ayWcYuo.gif) I *am* crying right now. I just shit my pants. Nothing to do with Fallout really. I just did it. WHY DID ELDER SCROLLS CHANGE THEIRS NCR vs. Septim Empire confirmed Caesar's Legion VS The Imperial Legion 

GET HYPE FOR LEGIONBOWL!!!!!! IT ADDS TO THE LOAD ON THE HYPE TRAIN Bethesda is trying to get their whole fanbase. I know I got into skyrim first, then picked up fallout 3 and loved it. Now I'm dying for the next of both titles. They probably want more of that Time to take off work boys Throw away your girlfriends, throw away your jobs! It's coming! Isn't the countdown just for the announcement? Well yeah Still. Time to start making my nest, no distractions. "MOM GO TO THE STORE. I need snacks, drinks, caffeine pills, and adult diapers! NO GO NOW. . . MOOOOOOOOM! I can't go, I must wait right here. In case something happens!" I feel bad for the people whose mother's are just as excited for the new Fallout as they are... I mean, they'll have to go to the store. They won't be able to revel in every moment of the countdown. Moms have moms too. I'm a mom and I'm super excited. :( Just have your mom go to the store for supplies then. Preparation is key. I found the domain in the webs source code. It's Fallout 4 alright.

http://gyazo.com/fb51f7cf7075109cfec538bf385a9ed7


Ok, so I did a little more looking.


There's code for a video embed.

http://gyazo.com/9856ae702b17c11a88205cdc77d3d840

There's also an age gate (makes you put in your age so you can video the content behind it) which is called "Institute.js"  PEGI

http://gyazo.com/7b0192341f6bda26a02a4ab8dd78fd50


There are also buttons that are scheduled to unlock on the page "Next and Previous" are named.

Credit to "Sharinghappiness" for this one.

There is code in the CSS referencing "Preorder" buttons, they are listed as Xbox one, Xbox 360, PS4, PS3 and PC.

http://gyazo.com/962c58bb14d6995141064d69e61cf6a1


Edit* Thanks for the gold dudes, but I was just bored while sick from work, your excitement for the game is enough for me. For the lazy, [fallout4.com](http://fallout4.com) has the exact same countdown

Edit: It seems to be down now. Either it got hugged to death, or someone made a mistake by putting it up in the first place.

Edit 2: It's back up. It may go on and off. ITT: 0 to **HYPE** in 8.43 seconds  &gt; 8.43 seconds

To be honest, I expected faster. I CAN ONLY GET SO ERRECT [deleted] It seems that The Elder Scrolls webpage redirects here, too. I don't know if it means anything at all, but I found it slightly interesting. Obviously Fallout 4 is set in a post nuclear Tamriel. The Empire and the Aldmeri Dominion must have been fighting long enough to go full nuclear and destroy civilization. Daedric Power Armour MY WALLET IS READY IT SEEMS LIKE THIS IS NOT THE YEAR WHEN I LOSE MY VIRGINITY AFTER ALL.  WHY ARE WE SHOUTING VIRGINS ARE LOUD. ..... Uh I mean they're loud.  BECAUSE ITS FUCKING *FALLOUT 4*.  http://imgur.com/uiaKjKb [Don't forget your ticket, guys!](http://i.imgur.com/e8jeuiR.jpg) First new release in 7 years, [this](http://i.imgur.com/ljeh5.gif) is the collective fanbase right now. New Vegas was 4/5 years ago and counts. Decent game Quote of the game: "NCR tries to put their stakes in everything they see. Nobody's dick's that long, not even Long Dick Johnson, and he had a ******* long dick. Thus the name." yes thank you. nobody gives New Vegas the credit is deserves, it was actually massively fun.  The Internet is about to break my dear friend. Somebody finally delivers. Good to know it's Bethesda this time round. I pray that one day valve will count to 3, my friend. I've already given Bethesda my SSN and full access to my bank accounts. They can have whatever they want.  (Speech skill 30)

(Persuasion 5% chance of success)


Just to make sure you aren't lieing to us..what would those numbers be... [It's happening!!](http://i.imgur.com/lx5ydA9.gif) [Better Quality](http://imgur.com/pzsCAHm) How bad of a person would I be if I were to edit your link into my comment? But I'm not ready! There is still so much I want to accomplish in life before I start staying inside playing Fallout all the time and growing a magnificent beard! It will just be an announcement with a date (probably just a year+season) telling you how long you have to accomplish all the other things.

The Fallout 3 countdown preceded the release by about 16 months. If I have to wait 16 more months, I might cry.  I'm just going to be happy to know it exists.  Twist: Bethesda realized they couldn't top Fallout 3 so they spent the whole budget on thermonuclear warheads and placed them strategically around the US. When the countdown hits zero they will detonate and Fallout 4 will begin. Aww man... So it's gonna be a US exclusive?  It's okay, like all good things, the Nuclear winter will hit globally in a matter of weeks :) I hate it when they have different release dates for different regions.  That's a relief. I've been patrolling the Mojave all day. Hey, I'm down for a little LARPing. start stockpiling bottlecaps, if there was ever a better reason to drink a lot of beer i haven't heard it Fuck it, I'll take it. Better than nothing. Double plot twist: Bethesda has been hacked by North Korea Wii U Exclusive!  "Now available on Android and ios" "Mobile gaming is the future" Earn caps with free to play *or* purchase pre-war bucks that can be converted into arbitrary crystals so you can skip the majority of the game! Tap the daily reward ghoul.  Nice Try, Smoothskin Hey, it'd make for an interesting Pip Boy screen.  Dude... That is so adventurous no one will ever try it. That's... That's an awesome idea, actually... I'd actually buy a Wii U if it was an exclusive. The tipping point that would convince me.

Edit: Throw in a new Metroid game, and there's no doubt in my mind, I'd be getting a Wii U TODAY. "Now available for ps3, xbox 360, Xbox one, and ps4"  You think we got mad about GTAs delay and paid mods? Let them announce it won't be available for PC. Bethesda, Maryland would burn to the ground.  Their offices (Zenimax Media) are in Rockville, MD. Not that I'd complain about Bethesda burning  Maybe if Rockville burns it'll fix the horrible traffic patterns. Fallout 5: Gary GAAARYYYYYY GARY! HA HA, GARY! ^gary? **GARY!** Gary, Indiana doesn't need an apocalypse to be a wasteland.  I gotta go get my spurs! Do they jingle jangle jingle? Ain't no spurs unless they jingle jangle. Holy crap is it actually happening?  I've avoiding getting excited about Fallout 4 because I didn't want to be disappointed if it didn't get announced, but now I can't control myself anymore!! [EVERYONE, GET IN HERE!](http://i.imgur.com/GVFbI3L.gif) So, based on source code + source .css
It is Fallout 4, and there should be a pre-order button on the site shortly (assumed when countdown is over). 
In the .css file there are a dozen calls to .png's with "preorder" as the class ... unfortunately all the .pngs are 404'd (haven't yet been uploaded). 

EDIT: Code shows it *MAY* be for Xbox 360, Xbox One, PS4, PS3, PC

EDIT 2: Provisional PEGI 18 rating

EDIT 3: US RP although I have now found links to 18+ images.
 Even old-gen consoles? Oh boy, this probably means they will use a ugly/outdated engine.

I hope I am wrong but seeing as it will also come on older-gen consoles probably means no next-gen graphics.

Please let me be wrong. Probably using the same engine from Skyrim with little to no changes. my thoughts exactly.  I will only be happy about the old gen inclusion if it means that this game is out in like 6 weeks. Fallout graphics have always been behind the curve though, I would rather quality gameplay than graphics, there are loads of shitty games out there with amazing graphics.               RAISE YOUR PIPBOYS  Pip-Pip Hooray! (  ) What you got b? **b**ortles GRIM PATRON IN FALLOUT 4 CONFIRMED?!?!? [I'll be on the hype train](http://i.imgur.com/EIL5rNE.jpg)
 http://i.imgur.com/0fi8Vde.jpg **CHOO CHOO** HYPE TRAIN LEAVINGTHE STATION. ALLLL ABOARD CHARGE FORWARD! Hearthstone player detected. FOR THE WARCHIEF My blade be thirsty.  ITS HAPPENING!!! I DON'T KNOW WHAT TO DO WITH MY HANDS!! At 25 years old I have decided to attend college and achieve a degree. 

"Fallout 4 set to arrive this fall."

Well so much for the whole school idea. I made it through college when new vegas and skyrim were released. You can do it brother Only a 24 hour countdown!?! Much hype! ***EDIT*** *since trailer is live: I am very pleasantly surprised. I forgot where I read this, but I think it describes the comment here before this edit.*

&gt;*I'm a pessimist, it's better that way. You're either right, or pleasantly surprised.*

___

Probably will just load a 30s teaser with a "See you at E3!" Message tacked on. Bonus: an extra timer at the end of the video.  if there's a button to [not] press, I'm in  Turns out to be 24 years lol my computer class right now

http://imgur.com/CPRuZwK

 Please don't be an MMORPG. Please don't be an MMORPG. Please don't be an MMORPG. Fallout Online announced!

$60 plus subscription! Free to Play, plus microtransactions! "Let's go sunnin" is free, all other songs 99 cents each! I don't want to set the wooooor ***please pay premium upkeep*** ***Error!*** *Please drink verification Nuka-Cola* NOOOOO!!! https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WWaLxFIVX1s
 Fallout: Online confirmed! Devs say they've listened to feedback and think this is the way the fans want the series to continue. if the internet could ever throw up one collective "OH GODDAMMIT" that would be its moment Minor correction - 

Fallout: Online for Mobile

*The Fallout universe will continue as a captivating point and click action adventure role playing game coming soon to iOS and Android devices worldwide!*

In other news... FBI investigating mass suicide... more at 9. Say no to MMO. Say yes to co-op.  I would go insane with excitement if this had a co-op feature. First XCOM 2, now this... My bank account can't take this!!!! XCOM 2?!!!!   WTF. I didnt notice I was living under a rock.  I litterally have shivers going down me. I have waited so long. I can't stop smiling. I haven't done any work since I found this thread. Not that I was doing work before I found it, but still! I WANT TO SCREAM BUT I DON'T WANT TO GET FIRED. 

THIS IS AWESOME. Hype. Hype Never Changes.

Since the dawn of human kind, when our ancestors first hyped the coming of rain or a particularly good mammoth kill, hype has been done in the name of everything: from God, to justice, to simple, unbridled excitement.

In the year 2015, after milennia of hype trains, the impatient nature of man could sustain itself no longer. The world was plunged into an abyss of overexcitement and anticipation.

But it was not, as some had predicted, the end of the hype. Instead, the twitter-post was simply the prologue to another hype-y chapter of human history. For man had succeeded in overexciting the world - but hype, hype never changes.

(Forgot to mention this was an x-Post of what I wrote on /r/fallout)

(Also: Thanks for the gold!)
 TL, DR: Get hype You think the Hype is your ally, but you were merely adopted by the hype. I was born in it, molded by it. I didn't see Fallout 3 until I was already a man; by then, it was nothing to me but blinding! You either die a dragon mmorpg, or live long enough to see yourself become Duke Nukem Forever. What if they just released Fallout 4 at the end of this countdown? Like literally, the countdown ends and Fallout 4 becomes available for digital download, retail box to appear in stores a week later.

Who would flip their shit? hm?

EDIT: FUCK YOU REDDIT, I AM CAPTAIN__CAPSLOCK! YOU THOUGHT I HAD LEFT MY UPPERCASE WAYS BEHIND, BUT YOU WERE WRONG! WRONG!! SHAME ON YOU HEATHENS, SLAVES TO THE FALSE GODS OF THE LOWER CASE. Just looked in the html. 

'announcement-preorder-aside-link' 

 Saw this error in the HTML as well:

            PA system failure has occured.
            Shutdown of the Masterbrain has been authorized and all sensitive materials have been removed for security purposes.
            Please attempt re-access. Have a pleasant day.
         My prediction: November 2015 October 23rd - the day the bombs dropped. October 23, 2077...
Shiiiit Whoah man chill, I can only get so erect  Same day as XCOM2 just to fuck with people. I think that would be the most brilliant thing they could do. We as a people have grown used to the crying wolf of all the past sirens. We wouldn't think it could be real... I would be so pissed because I get paid on Thursday. 

Edit: Everyone that is and did offer me the game, remember your offer when it is actually released and give it to someone who needs it. I can wait a day if it happens. I have a job and my own shit. The sentiment is nice but I don't want to take away from someone who needs it.  Go overdrawn, it's the only way. /u/honeypuff with the sound financial advice. I'm not being sarcastic, you have to overdraw fool. As a banking professional, I have to say that this is a case where you should overdraw.  I'll reverse your fees... If I can do that. No overdraft protection because I'm a child and don't know how to use it properly.  I guess it's time to get a cash advance. That 500% interest will be so worth it. With E3 so close and Bethesda running a press conference, I doubt that would happen. Bethesda also announced DLC and released it a day or two later on Fallout 3. True but DLC and a major release are two different things.  I would think you would have a teaser on the website, maybe even just the words Fallout 4 or something, then actually show gameplay / trailer at the conference. My pants would explode from my person I'm leaving for a nearly two months for military training on Friday, I'd either find a way to hide my desktop in the barracks or take my AWOL like man.  oh god its happening again.  ~~CLEGANEBOWL~~ FALLOUT 4 GET HYPE AAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAH
 Am I the only one who doesnt play Fallout but can still feel the sheer amount of sweat and heavy breathing from the fans right now? Hey fucker I'm not sweating. I have a feeling that Wednesday morning is going to be rather embarrassing at work. I'll have to remember to bring a change of pants with me. Where's the countdown? I only see a spinning cog? 23 hrs 11 mins away  I had the same thing but I paused Ghostery, reloaded, and then got the countdown.   PLEASE DON'T FUCK THIS UP! The timer finally hits zero, the screen fades to black, "I don't want to set the world on fire...", fallout logo appears, "online"

http://i.imgur.com/mzDLKIb.jpg
 Swear to god if they try and release a Fallout Online I will stab a bitch. [All of us]( http://img.pandawhale.com/post-47635-seth-rogen-no-fucking-way-gif-4u9T.gif)      PA system failure has occured.
    Shutdown of the Masterbrain has been authorized and all sensitive materials have been removed for security purposes.
    Please attempt re-access. Have a pleasant day. It's the Fallout countdooown. Da na na naaa, da na na na na. ALL ABOARD THE MUH FUCKIN' HYPE TRAIN! CLEGANEBOWL 2015 The full background http://fallout.bethsoft.com/assets/countdown/countdown-bg-grid.jpg http://i.imgur.com/WMx5PiN.gif I just see a spinning cog and the tab title is "Please Stand By."

Still, it's obviously something. A new Fallout with the writing from NV and the graphical quality of Skyrim (or better) would be sweet. And maybe this time around, we'll have some sort of *vehicle.* I mean, shit, even 2 had a car! :P Please no mmo. 


Please no exclusive dlc.


Please no timed exclusivity.

 http://i.imgur.com/lx5ydA9.gif Few game studios have earned my trust but i would literally pre-order that shit right now if they would let me. I don't need Trailers or game play footage Bethesda, I know your good for it. &gt;bethesda CEO comes on stage

&gt;walks real slow up to the mic

&gt;fans literally dropping dead from excitement

&gt;they know

&gt;it's happening

&gt;he begins to speak

&gt;it's so much closer now

&gt;i can feel it

&gt;his voice is silky like Three Dog's

&gt;"We at bethesda are proud to announce

&gt;we know

&gt;"the next installment in our hit series"

&gt;yes

&gt;"put your hands together for"

&gt;i am ready

&gt;"THE ELDER SCROLLS REMASTERED!"

&gt;angry nerds storm the stage

&gt;riots in the streets of LA

&gt;state of emergency declared

&gt;mass suicides in the streets

&gt;and you can tell in their eyes

&gt;they knew
 Bethesda board room meeting: 'So it turns out we can't legally print money, but i've got something better' Gaaaaarrryyyy. Garry? Garry. Garry? HAHA Garrrrrryyyy. Garry. GARRY! Garry? Garry? Garry! Garrrrrry Fallout MOBA incoming. Watch. [EVERYBODY STAY FUCKING CALM](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QyJBPfQv1wQ) YESSSSSSSSSSSSSSS 

https://www.youtube.com/watch?t=20&amp;v=Lnn2rJpjar4 Woooo!!! Better not be an MMO attempt. Fallout New Vegas 2 confirmed. I'd be absolutely enthralled by this. I wouldn't even be mad. Fallout Newer Vegas At the end of the countdown... A RobCo terminal with Very Hard difficulty we have to hack to see everything. That would be epic. TUNNEL SNAKES RULE WE'VE BEEN BAMBOOZLED!

EDIT: WE HAVEN'T BEEN BAMBOOZLED! IT'S HABBENING HYPE. HYPE NEVER CHANGES. TIME TO CHANGE MY UNDEEWEAR Just went from bethsoft to bethhard. Decompiling the institute.js file gives a classic programming interview problem, reversing a string, and the hard coded string "QcXgW9w4wQd"

Reversing that string gives dQw4w9WgXcQ, which I'm 99.999% sure will become a link to this 'private' video on youtube:

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dQw4w9WgXcQ a flying fuck [Since we're on the topic of flying fucks...](http://giant.gfycat.com/SecretReflectingHydatidtapeworm.gif) [If you can catch them, they taste quite nice in the oven](https://i.imgflip.com/mcv8c.gif) Is that [Breen](http://vignette4.wikia.nocookie.net/half-life/images/2/2e/Breen_upset.jpg/revision/latest/scale-to-width/250?cb=20100620192941&amp;path-prefix=en)? Yeah, it was probably made with SFM. Or, judging by the quality, gmod The quality of animation and particle effects make this look like either very high quality GMOD, or rather basic SFM. [Hey, I have one of those!](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r5wan1058Gc) When I clicked I thought damn you have a big [bicep and a super skinny wrist in that video.](http://imgur.com/zMJhcWK)  I still think that. How can you tell he doesn't? looks like a pillow.  are you guys high aswell?. I'm higher than giraffe pussy lol! never noticed that, [It's suppose to look like this](http://i.imgur.com/CoDKHaX.png), just a little hunched over I guess it is one of those blue dress gold dress issues. It cannot be unseen. [YUP!](http://3.bp.blogspot.com/_gqwfAUP-PL4/TQtZsbn940I/AAAAAAAAAIA/F0uxkU656Ko/s1600/quagmire-brazo.png) this seriously made me laugh, thank you for this  Hahahaha uploaded in 2013, brilliant I really thought it was going to be the flying dildo..

Was not disappointed. http://www.gifbin.com/bin/032011/1299505686_jackass-3d-steve-oport-a-potty-slingshot.gif first time I've noticed the apple on his head Risky click  what did you expect? super man and wonder woman? A lil OP gives a flying fuck. [Always Sunny Music Starts To Play] the public receives it kindly. He really gave one *Mile high club* i want someone to coordinate this with 30 people. that would be the best. Try the flying in formation mission at the flight school in GTA:O. I'm sure you will quickly change your mind! That was easy. It's the "collect these random rings in the city in an arbitrary amount of time with no guidelines" that was annoying. Formation flying I did with keyboard on the first try. What about the RC copter in Vice City? Oh god, I loathed that thing. Damn you, Avery.  The trick is to start from the top level. I usually try to kill off the dudes with guns using the rotor first, then start planting bombs from the top level on down. If I remember correctly, I'd just kill off all the dudes first and then plant the bombs, because the timer didn't start till the first bomb was planted right? Almost forgot the mission that nearly made me drop the series.  How about the Dodo in gta3 Curse you, Berkeley. CUUUUUUURRRRRSE YOOOOOOOUUUUU!  Strange, I found that one pretty easy but the formation was awful. Hard to control the speed of that aircraft (I was using the controller though). As formation qualified instructor pilot. Can confirm. And it's easier in real life because the controls are precise.  That was the last flight school mission I needed gold in. Good lord... staying in formation was such a pain! If memory serves you had to open throttle on the way up then slow as the loop heads downward... I'm not sure how I finally scored gold but I do recall the points being very close to silver.  Should mirror it so that the guy looking up at you can read it. npcs can't read How can NPC's read if their eyes aren't real? wait...that made sense...MOTHER OF GOD  We're all NPCs. Did you just call me illiterate?

I have no idea what I'm typing, I can't read. The irony of spelling illiterate without knowing how to read it. No its the awesomeness of autocorrect  Speech to text, bro. I'm a father of two and have no idea what sex is. Then I have some bad news for you He doesn't have to pay child support and gets a free trip to meet Murray Povich? I'm not seeing the bad news yet. Obligatory /r/outside My first time seeing this. Thank you very much! Are we NPCs? Or are we dancer? My hands are cold! Are we art? If a NPC gets run over in Los Santos and a PC doesn't see it, did it happen? Of course it does. Thermodynamics.

That's how that punchline goes right? Nailed it bro.   Brroooo.

Secretly in my head I read that like it rhymes with brew. I can't unhear it. According to quantum theory it both happens and doesn't happen.. it's only decided when the PC notices the body, or not.
 That's racist. I was going to make it read the right way from the ground but it's impossible to get the view far out enough to actually see it. Literally the only way to see the entire formation was to look at the shadow He can just roll the plane/formation over if he wants it to be readable from the ground. Came here to say this.  Good luck reading a 100m-wide shadow racing over you at 150kph. You can read mirrored text, you just need a bit more time.

The best insults are the ones the victim has to work for. Wh-what does that say??

F...fuck- oh god dammit.

Yeah, real mature, guy! The person that it was intended for read it just fine though I think they meant read the planes themselves, not the shadow.  What mod is this? https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1M9NCk5_m08 i came in here wanting to see it crash and

well

im kinda disappointed

but thanks it did crash.....but it didn't schrodinger's fuck 'Scuse me ma'am Yeah but cow rollerskates! Fuck, I wish I could be that infatile. Everything is so much more fun to that guy Now expecting the Dick Butt version We're gonna need more planes. And /u/dicknipples  And my axe! [So, this is what I see here, because the comment above yours is "below threshold" and therefore minimized.](http://i.imgur.com/2a9ZMMR.png)

&gt;**You've got AIDS**

&gt;And my axe!  I'm pretty HIV positive that's hilarious. Is that your fetish? () Why? [deleted] Out of all the memes, Ive never understood why dickbutt has survived this long Well, it's only one of the dankest memes out there. dickbutt is timeless. It is the nature of dick jokes. Almost a decade old. Created back before guardians of the internet would worry themselves over the expiration dates of memes and attempt to enforce them through constant whining.
Dickbutt is timeless indeed. because reddit only found out about it like a year ago I expected a swastika  GTA 5 modders sure seem bored Actually that's how you start modding in any game. Penis mods are the Hello World of modding. I'd say boob/butt mods, [more often](http://www.reddit.com/r/witcher/comments/37lz9d/the_modding_begins). My favorite mods. The end of the game, is the beginning. I'm just gonna say it right out. 

I want to see a dick formation flying at a mouth formation and a view from above as they collide and explode. &gt; I want to see a dick formation flying at a mouth formation and a view from above as they collide and explode.

Couldn't you just get a ladder and stand by your Mom's window? &gt; a ladder

You seem to be under the impression that engineers have managed to design a raised floor capable of supporting OP's mom. She's on the ground floor, but OP still needs a 30' ladder to get the view from above. &gt; engineers have managed to design a raised floor capable of supporting OP's mom.

We just recycle airport tarmac design.   Maybe he dug a hole and fell into it? Noice # Rekd /r/nocontext  I'm sure youd love to see that. [With music](https://gifsound.com/?gfycat=EqualWearyHake&amp;v=3YOYlgvI1uE) [Better if you you jump ahead a little in the song IMO](https://gifsound.com/?gfycat=EqualWearyHake&amp;v=3YOYlgvI1uE&amp;s=24) I think this would work better---https://gifsound.com/?gfycat=EqualWearyHake&amp;v=IPZuYwYxnL4&amp;s=34 The video is blocked in my country. :( This is amazing. Thank you also https://gifsound.com/?gfycat=EqualWearyHake&amp;v=pc0mxOXbWIU&amp;s=14 Winner. Have internet points. Not sure how I knew what it would be before I clicked. I should get off reddit.  Ritt Der Walkuren, called it! I was hoping someone would do this. You did. Thank you! Have an upvote sir. Haha.  That was the first thing that even popped into my head when I saw this.  

"You know what this needs?  Ride of the Valkyries!" Haha thats actually what i used in the video! SOURCE OF ORIGINAL VIDEO: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1M9NCk5_m08 Haha NOSAJ! I was going to post this myself this morning :) thanks for posting the source. yep! Sorry I saw this and had to make a gif. Hopefully the video gets a few views and whatnot. You're on the frontpage! Haha all good. I've made a gif from just about every one of my gta videos so far and they have all reached the front page. It never gets old.

It feels awesome to see them there but even when the source is the top voted comment i only really get max 1k views from reddit so I'm not really worried about that :)

Just nice to see people upvoting and enjoying the stupid crap I do. /r/geraldAUS was the creator of the video used in this gif Thanks buddy. It's all good though he's a fellow YouTuber and he sourced it :) Good thing there was that zoom in at the end or I might have missed it. Thanks for zooming in I didn't see it the first time See what? I thought someone was going to run across the wings, was not expecting this. What a time to be alive They're all controlled by one plane Solid detective work there bud.  we did it reddit! Now let's get back to solving that bombing! We did that too! Not very well! At least we got a good meme out of it! And that's all that really matters. dank times Does anybody have a link to the thread where somebody actually said "we did it!" [At the end of this post.](http://www.reddit.com/r/gaming/comments/388f47/hold_formation_gta_5_gif/crtilgq) I clicked that like 5 times And all owned by 2 Chainz. Who benches them for max gainz Fueling himself with only grainz. Truu Ya the helicopter mass liftoff from a couple days ago is a good indicator of how this would turn out if they were individually controlled. link? http://gfycat.com/FearfulRigidGrebe The propellor on the plane to the right isn't even moving. Yeah, kind of sad. Would have been impressive otherwise. Sadly it's literally the only way to do this unless you have 60 people online somehow a and can find 60 of these planes That's the easy part Yeah you'd need 60 people with identical pings. And superb flying skills And only 1 fuck left to give. call these guys.

http://gfycat.com/FearfulRigidGrebe
 well

call whatever the exact opposite of those guys is. The random plane wiggling makes that nearly impossible anyway.  The amount of planes is your biggest worry? My asshole friends would crash us all and it'd turn into a friendly kamikaze match. Well I have no idea how to program a mod like this so I am still impressed.  looks like you are getting some flak for saying that.  when I realized it was just one plane it kind of took away from the post,  like who cares they could have modded anything  What kind of sorcery is that?  Mods. What the flying fuck As seen from the ground:

  n

n but you only rotated it... shouldn't it be mirrored? I tried imagining I was looking up to read your comment, and now I'm stuck in that mindset. I feel like everything is above me. This is fucked up. [You've got to wangle a new dangle on life](https://i.imgur.com/y2ePHBu.jpg) No, that's what it looks like if your looking down on it from above. It would be backward, yours is just upside down.  Whoa.

How did you do the backwards 'b'?

&gt;d Magnificent :') Would've been much more impressive if all of those planes were different people.

Too bad they'd all crash into each other/shoot each other down. Worth. Be much better if it wasn't a mod, but actual players. Huh, /r/Unexpected  i might be overthinking this, but the spelling would be backwards to anybody on the ground looking up at it. promote this man GTA stuff has become less impressive since the PC version was released. Mods are awesome, no doubt, but seeing skill (or luck) result in something interesting is far more entertaining Well then, I'll be expecting more of these now. It would be really satisfying to see them crash they did crash https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1M9NCk5_m08 It wasn't satisfying though /r/unexpected The mods for gta5 just keep getting better and better. For a GTA gif in a subreddit completely over-saturated with GTA gifs, I actually found this quite amusing.  color me impressed formidable  Was that a message to the publishers of the game? http://www.corbisimages.com/images/Corbis-AU002705.jpg?size=67&amp;uid=a25dd0b8-445a-49d7-9f15-e626cba941dc is that real? that's awesome Object parenting is quite an awesome thing indeed. Clearly 1 model
 It would be cool if someone could recreate that with actual pieces and not a mod gluing a bunch of planes together and giving it the physics of a single plane. some people should actually do something like this not just mod planes together it's plane to see someone has anger issues. This needs to be done with dick butt. i havent seen this much spite and coordination since the last time EVE online was on the radar. Except this is one person piloting one plane. awww you ruined it for me. omg, thats fuckin amazing I see you flyin 'round town in the plane I love, and I'm like

FUCK U Yea, don't think this is really "hold formation" since it's pretty clear that it's modded in like that. All other seats on the rest of the planes are empty. I thought my computer was going to crash rendering that They should have an A.I fly that thing in dunce lobbies. Seriously, I wasn't even threatening. Fuck U well done ^_^ You really should crash that into tallest building in the city. flying swastika next? [Here](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fYiKyHxDI-o&amp;feature=youtu.be) you have the video for it and [here](http://de.reddit.com/r/battlefield_4/comments/2qj34r/the_true_gunship/) the corresponding post from half a year ago. They wanted to never fix it, let's hope they hold promise. lol. you linked to the German version of reddit. Got me confused for a while ^^^\(and ^^^then ^^^horny). Noooo! I've revealed my heritage! I'm doomed to die! =( [Say what you want about Germany...](https://pbs.twimg.com/media/B_KRQG-VEAAj8o2.jpg:large) No. No No No. This is roundabout 1% of Germany and not what you should be thinking about when you hear "Germany"! [when i think of Germany](http://images2.fanpop.com/images/photos/3900000/Germany-landscape-germany-3923149-1024-768.jpg) That was beautiful  rule 34 is getting weirder and weirder these days

*inb4 someone links to splatoon rule 34 subreddit* /r/slutoon

NSFW

RIP my inbox ...I don't know what I was expecting. You know exactly what you were expecting. (   ) http://i.imgur.com/QdbOW9a.gifv http://i.imgur.com/lJIy6J8.gifv I can't believe someone made this If you're referring to this: http://i.imgur.com/EucIfYY.jpg
Then yes, me too! Why the fuck is that jpeg moving. A wizard did it Right! I was wondering the same thing! It says its a jpg but it moves like a gif. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NgzhxebpDew Nani the fuck did you just fucking iimasu about watashi, you chiisai bitch desuka? Watashill have anata know that watashi graduated top of my class in Nihongo 3, and watashive been involved in iroirona Nihongo tutoring sessions, and watashi have over sanbyaku perfect test scores. Watashi am trained in kanji, and watashi is the top letter writer in all of southern California. Anata are nothing to watashi but just another weaboo. Watashi will korosu anata the fuck out with vocabulary the likes of which has never been mimasud before on this continent, mark watashino fucking words. Anata thinks anata can get away with hanashimasing that kuso to watashi over the intaaneto? Omou again, fucker. As we hanashimasu, watashi am contacting watashino secret netto of otakus across the USA, and anatano IP is being traced right now so you better junbishimasu for the ame, ujimushi. The ame that korosus the pathetic chiisai thing anata calls anatano life. Youre fucking shinimashitad, akachan. http://i.imgur.com/pv6j9vr.gif That's actually the most HD gif I've ever seen http://gfycat.com/HastyPepperyJaeger Well thats even more HD in all the right places Her mouth just looks like she's whispering "hapuhpuhpuh".  /r/HighQualityGifs  ^^^^^^_you're-welcome Spoken version:
https://soundcloud.com/xkiichan/nanidafuqamisaying Baka That was sugoi. This is the best version of this I have ever read DAYONAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAA
 cartoon porn? What a time to be alive oh new to the internet are we? i hope you dont fall prey to curiosity on the subject of /r/spacedicks or /r/nsfl. they really make all this and /r/wtf look tame.  Ooo new flair system! Well that was fast.  Hasn't it been around for a few months? I think it existed before it was out. It existed since roughly a day after the game's announcement.  
^^I ^^kind ^^of ^^was ^^the ^^third ^^subscriber. So there was porn of it before character design was finished? Or did they splash into marketing and advertise all their characters or something. Or is it like based on a preexisting IP?

I basically have no idea what this splatoon thing is. Okay, Splatoon is a third-person shooter game (to be reductive) that Nintendo announced at last year's E3. It's a completely new IP, new character set, etc. There were a few threads on /v/ (a 4chan board) where people were making drawings of their reactions to announcements. The announcement section was roughly 10 minutes long, if my memory serves. People had drawn porn of the characters (albeit bad porn) in less than 10 minutes. Yes, there was porn of the characters before the announcement trailer was over.  
When /r/Splatoon was created ~1 hour after the reveal trailer, it was pretty empty. There were something like 12 posts on there when I subscribed, and two of them were porn. It was kind of a wild west for a few days, no rules on what should be posted. Then a thread was made that was basically a moderator telling people that posting porn was a big no-no. A few names were thrown around, and we eventually decided on /r/Slutoon.  Your water dragonly advice is indeed sagely. Thank you! I... I thought this game just came out. The concepts have been in their heads for years, they just needed the game to give them models That place looks *strangely* familiar ... Been on /v/ in the past few weeks? Check the front page of the subreddit in question :O  How strange? NSFL? Yikes!


[Eye bleach!](http://i.imgur.com/rdflwIx.jpg) 



I am a robit.
 sum1 get me some rule 34 of this puppy Interestingly, this sub existed and had content way before the game was even released. ...people are fuckin weird... Literally game about tentacle girls. I'd be surprised if it didn't exist. Tentacle girls spraying ink. They were asking for it. made by japan, what else did you think was going to happen?
 In fact, I bet the game was based off some hentai that one of the developers had been watching. Pretty hot actually.. No really. I had a sexual attraction to the character when I first saw it truthfully. And this is the first time I can truly understand people being legitimatly turned on by this sort of thing. Pretty interesting. One of us, one of us I would a squid.

I mean it's technically a bj and anal at the same time B-but they've got *beaks!*

D: Nothing ventured, nothing gained my boy
 I used to mod that place. I made a dozen posts too. Oh yeah, you're the guy who posted all the rule34.xxx and paheal.net links that are impossible to view on mobile.  Sorry mate, but I was posting them from a shitty tablet with a piss poor internet connection. I wasn't going to take the time to post them to imgur. It's alright, there are more pictures of slutty squids out there. That was a link I should not have clicked. I should however have read before I clicked. 

I swear some people make rule34 stuff so quick its like their job.  Wow. Of course the tentacles are prominent feature in that sub. 

It's like Nintendo did this shit on purpose.  Wow that was first, My first thought was:

"Oh wow there was a NSFW sub reddit that was named Slutoon before the game?" So many pages already... Two in the blue, one in the doodoo. Of course it is. How the fuck is this a thing already. Didn't this game come out like last week? That subreddit was born the second we saw the Splatoon E3 trailer and thought "Damn, those are some sexy-ass squids." "Oh yeah shoot your ink all over her" We should just have a bot that every time some one mentions rule 34, the bot posts /r/slutoon. (if you don't know yet ***NSFW***) /r/boatsfuckingwarthogs BRRRRRRRRRRRT http://i.imgur.com/D80TF0L.png "_We may not be able to get the boat 
                         in.  The draft at the mouth of 
                         that river may be too shallow._"

_We'll pick your boat up and put it 
                         down like a baby, right where you 
                         want it.  This is the First of the 
                         Ninth, Air-Cav, son.  Air mobile!  
                         I can take that point and hold it 
                         just as long as I like, and you 
                         can get any place up that river 
                         that suits you, young Captain._

Seriously though - how is that A-10 not exploding? It's an A-10. They can stand up to worse. I know that. I meant anytime in Battlefield when I fly a plane into the water it kinda tends to explode. Unless they've made some nerfing patch to it that Im not up to speed on.

 Its not fully submerged. There's a shallow depth at which the game says "Eject the pilot, blow this shit up", and that depth wasnt reached. The water isn't very deep in the gif so the A-10 can stand there without sinking and exploding. Being that I sexually identify as an A-10 I'm triggered by your comment, people assume our standards are low because of the jobs some of ours took in the middle east, but rest assured not all A-10s. I sexually identify as a SAM missle and I will fuck your shit sideways I sexually identify as a thermonuclear bomb and I swear to God I'll use me.  I have no doubt you already do. :) Ah yes, a surface to air missile missile As long as I can surf Charlie don't surf! /r/youdontsurf stupid fucking shirt I just watched that today for the first time. Great movie.  Never get out of the boat. Absolutely goddamned right. The horror.   The horror. Water was shallow enough that the wheels could touch the ground under it would be my guess.
 I play Battlefield because it's more realistic. I love when people rank FPSs based on realism. First, you eat an MRE, then 3 days later you shit in a hole, then we talk realism. I'm almost as active as a real army sniper. Relevant Onion clip http://youtu.be/A5tRNs2X5Q4 Aww man, I remember that. I showed it to a friend back when it first came out and he had no idea what the onion was and he got soooo mad about it. On top of that, I also showed him the one of Justin Bieber actually being an old pedophile.

Edit: [Bieber Video](http://www.theonion.com/video/justin-bieber-found-to-be-cleverly-disguised-51-ye-18178)
   I'd never heard of the onion when I saw that Bieber video either, then I showed my brother and he called me an idiot. Hah, this is amazing. After eating an MRE, there is no shitting. Ever again. Your shitting days are over. There is no shitting, ever, in any FPS that I'm aware of. 

Realism: confirmed.  MRE's are like roofies for your stomach. Everything kinda slows to minimum life-support levels until you begin eating real food again. Then your gut wakes up, wonders where the hell it's been for the last eight months, panics, and begins purging. Kinda like popping the cork on a champagne bottle, only it's your butt. Can confirm, after a field op the best course of action is just to spend about $12 at Taco Bell and just go home and blast everything out, it will be a painful hour or so but then it's all over. &gt; there is no shitting. Ever again. Your shitting days are over.

Toilet manufacturers hate him! I don't even know why people bring up realism in regards to Battlefield. The devs have been pretty explicit in the past that realism is not their priority at all. yo, can we trade? I need cheese for my spaghetti.  (_  (  _ )  Calling /u/PleaseRespectTables . I'm in the navy and play bf4. Does that count I stayed in a motel 8 playing bf4 

Thanks for your service thou!  Obviously no one wants realism taken to the extreme, but when a gun feels like a lasergun instead of the real thing it's just lame.

People praised realistic graphics when skyrim came out without anyone giving them shit for "lol realism? You want to be eaten by a dragon?" Not realism - authenticity. I don't think anyone is really thinking that BF is realistic, but it certainly is one of the most authentic FPS (among the popular that is) Exactly. Where else can I set explosives on my allies tank and send them across the battlefield where they, in transit, may shoot down a few helicopters if they wish, just like in real war? Where else would I be okay with explaining realistic scenarios I can accomplish using comma splices? No where, that's where.  you're not playing hardcore enough. hate there aren't that many hardcore servers. 

i feel its how the game should be truly played If you had to ID people by uniform, that would be great Ain't nobody got time fo' dat! I'd just shoot anything that moves.  Ah, 'Nam rules. Now that's how I like to play my games. Bring on the burning village and running, crying naked children! It's all I played on Xbox 360, hardcore close quarters

On ps4 it's like hardcore may as well not exist  That's how I played BF:BC with my friend, always hardcore.  I believe you're talking about jeep stuff. I hate the lack of friendly fire in modern shooters. Battlefield 2 could have amazingly powerful artillery strikes and vehicles because they would also kill your allies. There was a risk to the big guns, so you could pull them out fairly.

They basically had to make everything weaker in order to accommodate friendly fire. Play hardcore Only in Battlefield. What game is that? Battlefield 4
 as someone who only played bf1942, vietnam, and bf2 on pc (NONE of the console ones because they were nerfed garbage) would you recommend bf4? there's been a lot of good patches for it lately so i say if you get it on sale for like $15 it's definitely worth the fun My mates and I played BFBC2 then BF3. When BF4 came out we played for about a month then lost interest. What's changed in the last year that might be worth our while getting back into it? Pretty much everything. New content in every category (maps, weapons, tags, what-have-you), a lot of the new maps are very characteristic and distinguished from others, 2142-eqsue tech (hover tanks!), completely overhauled weapon statistics (including projectile falloff), various bugfixes and optimisations... it's changed loads.

Oh, and there's a bunch of BF3 maps that have been 'upgraded' a bit as well (working elevators in Metro and extra corridors/doodads for cover, etc). sorry, you had me at "upgraded Metro". You might like the gulag level as well, [Operation Locker](http://battlefield.wikia.com/wiki/Operation_Locker). The most clusterflip map ever. If you want my advice, don't assume that there's someone behind the door that half your team is firing at every time. So many instances where there's been no one there and I just walked through (they stayed and kept firing at nothing, of course!). With the flares and bullets and the 'nades though it is spectacularly chaotic (BF4 as whole really). Operation Locker was the only map in BF4 that we lost our shit on. That was a good map. Haha, yeah man. Though, there is something in the larger maps for myself. Shooting down flying vehicles with RPGs and tank shells is satisfying.

Oh, and BOATS! I love the boats in BF4. they changed the gunplay a crap-ton compared to the mess it was on release. it feels a lot smoother now and "suppression" isn't much of a problem anymore If you lost interest before I highly doubt you'll find it different enough to stay interested this time around in all honesty, as much as I like the game. the guy didnt even mention the net code updates.

player uploads to server is now 120hrtz up from 30hrtz, server to player communication is now 60hrtz up from 30hrtz, and server internal update pacing is now 30hrtz gobal + 60hrtz in local bubbles emanating from each player up from 20 hrtz global.

in short the game is significantly more consistent with registering hits, keeping track of player movement, collision, and just about everything, average ping times are down. its overall a better expereience in terms of "net code" overall. I like you and your friend played it when it first came out and quickly lost interest, but recently bought it on sale for my Xbox One and haven't put it down since. They have added a lot of content and fixed many of the issues that plagued day 1 BF4.  Free content too! El alamein was the shizzzzzz! I was a student by day, pilot by night.  lol i remember that map like the back of my hand, i loved bombing either base. so much fun. That was a good map. Bf4 is good but BFBC2 is probably still the better one Man i sunk so many hours int BC2 and the vietnam expansion minus the hit rego and rubberbanding issues lol I DEFINITELY would. Since BF:Hardline came out the community shrank so you typically only see high-level players. Not really a problem if you are w good player. Huge amount of guns in each class. Excellent game engine. Many kinds of game modes. If you've played Battlefield you know all this though. I think BF4 is one of the best FPS shooters out there (multiplayer focused at least). I would also recommend getting the DLC, the majority of players and some of the better battles take place in the latest DLC(forget the name). It's not so much fun on your own. If you have friends who you could play with definitely get it. The game is pretty amazing despite what everyone says about netcode and whatnot, which is largely fixed now anyway. The scout heli feels amazing and the gunplay is good. Between the beautiful explosions, tank shells and sniper shots, you really feel like you're in a warzone, unlike other war games.   
However, if you'd end up playing on your own, meh. All the game modes are pretty squadoriented and playing with random people makes my skin crawl at their apathy. No one drops ammo, no one drops medkits and most importantly, no fucking squadcaptain EVERRRRRRR marks a target.  Some people like it, some people don't. Like every other game out there. This is why we need a rule to mandate what game it is in the title, honestly. Or at least sign game flairs "IIIII can showwww you the wooooorld" &gt; "IIIII can BRRRRRT you the wooooorld"

ftfy [It works so well together!](http://www.youtubedoubler.com/?video1=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.youtube.com%2Fwatch%3Fv%3DfYiKyHxDI-o&amp;start1=0&amp;video2=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.youtube.com%2Fwatch%3Fv%3D-kl4hJ4j48s&amp;start2=14&amp;authorName=snoopsagan) A WEAPON TO SURPASS METAL GEAR I'll just leave this here... https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=K-3FOeBXDHA I'm glad I watched that. Amen.  Hallelujah.  Peanut Butter. Amen, [halleluja](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ieZdrhlO9_k), peanut butter. I like how the boat inked itself cause it was its first time flying. God damn BF4 is such a great game. As the commercial says:

"only in Battlefield" TASTE THE BURNING FURY OF BOAT-PLANE!! IN THE ***FURY SKIES*** [mario did it first](http://vignette1.wikia.nocookie.net/mario/images/9/95/SuperMarioBros3-World1-Airship.png/revision/latest?cb=20090918175835) War.  War... sometimes changes...  That's so romantic, riding off into the sunset like that. AC-130 INBOUND!!!!! ........ wait... wat? Wow. The cinematography is really breathtaking in modern games! Too bad I am not a gamer. I'mma fly this boat to the moon somehow! you can land the A-10 in the water? That particular area of the map is shallow for infantry/light vehicles to traverse over without being submerged. Jets also get high faster than an ethiopian child on 10 hits of DMT. Yes, and they are piloted by transgender unicorns and double as ice cream trucks on Tuesdays...just like in real life! This post triggered me.  It's very shallow water. You can walk in it. GI Joe!  Real American Heroes! Boatiful. https://gifsound.com/?gifv=KWhUvnQ&amp;v=U1mlCPMYtPk

Had to be done. This is Ponylion.  His team does some pretty cool stuff. That boat keeps sliding backwards, where is the video of it falling off? &gt; I prefer battlefield to CoD because it's more realistic

 What game is this? Battlefield 4. I WANTED TO SEE IT FALL Was I the only one who expected the ship to just start flying off on it's own? I thought that propeller looking thing was going to go faster and make it take off like a helicopter ...  I can show you the woooooorld... So I was listening to Wind of Change by the scorpions while watching this and it was somehow perfect.  This was Pearl Harbor  [I see me runnin' through that open door...](http://img2.wikia.nocookie.net/__cb20110403031903/legouniverse/images/3/3a/I_believe_I_can_fly.gif) Godspeed, gentlemen. Damn, I was more impressed by the water graphics, I haven't played BF in a loooong time. I love video games. Stuff like this just makes me smile. The battlefield 4 theme song was playing in my head from start to finish  Ahh the boat-plane.   Classic! Something something danger zone.  Wait a fucking minute... that plane IS FUCKING AMPHIBIOUS! ALL THE WASTED TIME! I can show you the wooorld! For anyone who hasn't seen it, this is also how Lost ends. Anyone else think the boat was gonna take off like a helicopter because of the radar? Wheres the part where they fell off? :D Row, row, row your boat..

gently up the plane Wow, I didn't even realize it was a game until the boat got on the aircraft! source - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fYiKyHxDI-o Now I want a seaplane version of the A-10. No, I don't care about practicality. I just want the awesome. Imagine this on Kerbal Space Program. SHINING, SHIMMERING SPLENNDORRR "a weapon to surpass metal gear" Those graphics are simply beautiful.  Wait, the A-10 can float? When the daddy boat really likes the mommy plane... Battlefield theme song starts playing in my head as they lifted off... This gif has sound! And the best thing is, nobody can lock on to them because it keeps alternating between trying to lock on one or the other. In Arma

Attempts .gif

both vehicles explode when they touch each other And that, kids, is how seaplanes are made [Is this the A-Team?](http://www.youtubedoubler.com/?video1=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.youtube.com%2Fwatch%3Fv%3DfYiKyHxDI-o&amp;start1=7&amp;video2=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.youtube.com%2Fwatch%3Fv%3Dwyz_2DEah4o&amp;start2=0&amp;authorName=snoopsagan) What was the though process behind this?

Boat Pilot: We're under attack!

Plane Pilot: Don't worry I have a plan so crazy it might just work!

Boat Pilot: What?

Plane Pilot: Drive your boat on top of my plane and we can fly away with absolutely no repercussions...

Boat Pilot: Yeah whatever.

If that was it they're geniuses!

Edit=Fix formatting  The redneck gunship. Deal with it That lava placement could make for some difficult peeing angles. Just pee straight into the lava, it's not like it can get dirty. Who would want obsidian flooring?  yeah one wrong step and you have a floor made of optical surgery grade cutting fragments At least white walkers wouldn't be able to reach the throne... Pretty sure they can still pee on it if you're icy cold, how do you pee? wouldn't it be frozen? Maybe they pee antifreeze, or liquid oxygen? Or shit (ice)bricks You grab the tip and pull out the pee icycle, hold over toilet, then let it go. If their touch freezes steel, does their pee stay in liquid form? I would be affraid a powerup spawns and levels up my Johnson. Anyone who plays Dwarf Fortress. When you live in the North and just want to shit in peace. The Aztecs. Definitely. Or Sumerian You don't want to do that.  The heat from the lava will transfer through your pee stream and burn your peepee hole.
/r/science /r/shittyaskscience We're talking bad science about the shitter, This could never be more appropriate. And most of us are probably on the shitter browsing reddit. Redditor on the shitter reporting for duty.  Reporting for *doodie Relevant username. I know I am. What did you call me?  /r/pissyaskscience in this case? Is that something that could actually happen? How quick could heat move through pee/water? And would it be quick enough to move up your pee stream? Water has a very high specific heat, heat doesn't travel through it quickly. No, it would not be quick enough to move up a Pee stream, which is constantly flowing away from you. theres also the fact that pee fragments into little droplets as it falls, so any heat source would have to deal with alternating mediums like a hundred times before it reaches your junk Out of curiosity to prevent me from getting a bad dream, would heat thus be able to transfer up a gasoline stream, enough to reach the source?
Yes I know that rhyme was lame, just trying to get into the habit of posting under this name. Heat, no. Flames, yes and very fucking dangerous. Never EVER pour gasoline onto a fire like that. That's a great way to end up in the hospital and lose all four corners of your firem'n chit. So TIL, never pour gasoline into lava. Got it. I approve this rhyme/name. Pee in short spurts That couldn't happen. What would happen, though, is that it would flash to steam, so you'd soon be breathing pee. Not to mention there would be active spatter, not just splashback. Eh, I've had worse. The pee would evaporate and then you would just inhale it... Would not small too good though, don't ya think? [This comes to mind.](https://i.imgur.com/KNfSBg8.jpg)

Edit: Apparently NSFW. What in the... why...? &gt; difficult peeing angles.

This guy is practicing it.  maybe the only way he can get a bowel movement nowadays is to tense all of his muscles enough to stiffly suspend himself horizontally in air between two walls? I don't see what's wrong, because that is, apparently, how everyone does it in public bathrooms  I'm sorry that that was previously in your mind in the first place.

Now it's also in all of ours... NSFW What is even happening in the picture...? Nothing out of the ordinary. Just a fellow human being using a public toilet the way public toilets are used.  Peeing angles? What about the poo angles? Nah, just do a nice wide straddle. My hop game would be strong. Those lava tiles would give me some fierce vertigo. Having strong urge to try to enter the toilet feet first..  There's really only one way to find out where it goes... We're all hearing it... 
https://youtu.be/2MD61S5pzjM Well you have to stand *in* the toilet and flush to get to the Ministry of Magic. [Good luck to whoever decides to take a shit on that](http://vignette2.wikia.nocookie.net/mario/images/c/c9/Piranha_Plant,_New_Super_Mario_Bros._U.png/revision/latest?cb=20121119025023) This plant is used when out of toilet paper. I thought it was the waste disposal system.  I'd rather use sandpaper and duct tape. Everyone knows that Piranha Plants are safe while you stand 
(or sit) on them! Not the RED ones, only the green ones. The red one would bite your star off in no time. I like to think they still tickle your butthole a little bit. I was imagining mario flying through the pipe and a flying shit torpedo just hits him right in his fuckin face Bullet Bill's "special" cousin Built in bidet Suddenly I have a great idea for a chair fucking machine. Gaming stores have bathrooms in Sweeden? None of the gaming stores around here are big enough to have their own bathrooms. Not ones open to customers, at least. this one has, at least. it also got its own caf: http://images.webhallen.com/files/butiker_fridhemsplan_1.jpg Webhallen Fridhemsplan is really cool, they have free Hearthstone tournaments and stuff and nice staff. Cool place all in all. Webhallen is really great in general. Bought a Wii U and a couple of games at Webhallen Sveavgen today. Yeah, my local Webhallen (Barkarby) is also cool. Small but nice staff. Wababa Yadda Yadda Wobble Wobble FacePlan I don't live in Sweden. Wait there's a Webhallen at friedhelmsplan!? Only one I know in Stockholm is Sveavgen! They have a caf and that toilet there. It's very nice! There is loads of em in Stockholm. If you count just the City there is Sveavgen and St: Eriksgatan 44 (Fridhelmsplan) But on the larger scale you have Tby, Solna, Farsta, Kista, Nacka,. Frungen, Upplands Vsby, Jrflla. All of em are awesome I had no idea that there was one there! Must go past there next time I need a PC upgrade... Yeah! Webhallen's growing. Plopping up like weeds everywhere. :)



Or to quote Mulan.. "De sticker upp ur snn. Som krokusar!" So, like a better replacement for _Game_ :p America needs new gaming stores....... needs cat cafes first Agreed. Doesnt Japan also have a tame fox island? I want that, too.  Why? Doesn't everybody just buy online now? I actually live in the same building as the girl that works at the cafe. Been there several times. 

It's less of a Gaming Store, more of a Nostalgic lan/arcade with a Webhallen just being there. Really cool place to hang out.  I wondered for too long who Nostalgic Ian is. Is this a gaming store or is it a place to play games? Because here in Texas there are some places that have a cafe and a bathroom, but it's not a store. You pay to enter there and have access to a bunch of systems and games for a few hours, basically a modern day arcade. it's a game/computer/tech store Webhallen started as an online tech retailer. This is at one of their physical locations, which has become more focused on gaming stuff. They opened a caf there a while back, and have been doing a bunch of stuff like hosting Hearthstone fireside gatherings and whatnot. Not really a gaming caf, but a place for gaming and games that happens to have a caf?

**EDIT:** Well fuck me for giving a descriptive answer, apparently?  It's a gaming store but in many of their stores they have some consoles for use if you're queueing or just wanna try games Streaming twitch TV? Awesome! It would be cool to attend an actual barCraft in a plac e that didn't look like ass and people where somewhat trendy. Fan va fet, min lokala Webban r dtrist. Ser ut som en industrilokal. Mste glida frbi butiken vid Fridhemsplan nn dag ser jag. Cool, I live close to webhallen in Sveavgen. I'm even a Gold member.  you better be a gold member if you can afford to live close to sveavgen! I have to "panta burkar" everyday to afford living in this tiny closet in Htorget. Ericsson is not paying me enough!  the struggle is real! rental appartment or did you buy it? I bought it. You can't get rental in downtown anymore. Alliansen sold out all the apartments to rich hipsters.  You're not thinking of stores like Game Stop are you?  Because that's a totally different kind of game store. This is reddit. Dont you know on here sweden is a magical utopia where everything is absolutely perfect. &gt;This is reddit. Dont you know on here sweden is a magical utopia where everything is absolutely perfect.

I don't get how this is relevant, unless you think that's actually the case, as if anything this post would corroborate that.

Seems like you just wanted to be edgy. &gt; sweden is a magical utopia where everything is absolutely perfect

Sadly, I have to disappoint you. The lights at the St. Eriks gatan/Karlbergsvgen crossing were broken today and it made my commute about three minutes longer from Kista to Sdermalm. Do NOT press *down* while sitting on that thing. If you do, everyone else will have^to^press^F [What happens when you do.](https://youtu.be/Vdd4rBlsj2o?t=34s) http://www.sharegif.com/wp-content/uploads/2014/05/17-anchorman-quotes.gif ~~Link to YouTube please!~~
Thanks! I want to poop there, but I don't want to poop there. Schrdinger's Shit Yeah let's just say Schrdinger-anything without actually knowing what it means right.
 Ok. It's really a Schrdinger's want to shit. But let's say he went into the bathroom both wanting and not wanting to take a shit. I came in after. The lid was closed and I had not heard a flush. Until I open the lid, I can consider the toilet to both contain and not contain a shit. Then it's a Schrdinger's shit.  best throwaway nick i've seen yet. probably not a throwaway though? Until you open the lid there is both shit in the toilet and there is no shit in the toilet. . . Nevermind, I can smell it from here. . . Username checks out.  You could be a Poopa Troopa. soo.. the floor IS lava? You know who to call if you need a plumber  I'd hope that this would be a plumber's dream call.  Taking a number 2 into level 1-2. actually, this looks like 1-4 I work at this store! AMA can i get some stuff for getting you guys to the frontpage? ;) just kidding, thanks for running an awesome store! just kidding ^totally ^^not ^^^kidding Was the design of the floor set up to make people step close enough to actually hit inside the bowl? Nah What is the name of your store?  Do you guys have any trouble with vandalism?  I can't imagine trying to keep something like that looking nice. Yes... Where in Sweden??? Need to go back there and pee that... Webhallen in Fridhemsplan, Stockholm. You can see some more pictures [here](http://www.webhallen.com/se-sv/info/vara_butiker).  It appears to also be a gaming caf. The floor IS lava!
 Sorry, but the princess is in another shitter. That toilet is bigger than my room I would totally take a shit in there.

Does it make the mario bros "through the pipe" noise when you flush? They really took it to the next level I would avoid walking on the lava like the plague.  I swear, 26 years old and I still avoid walking on the cracks in the sidewalk AKA lava that only I can see.   My first thought: haha awesome, but a waste of money!

My second though: I wonder how much plane tickets to Sweden are? I kind of want to visit this place... And since it actually never gets dark in Stockholm this time of year, you really don't need to get a hotel - just stay awake.
 from new york (or newark, rather) you can get a round trip to sweden for around 550$. Houston, TX (IAH) to Stockholm (ARN) with layover in NY (EWR) is like $1,800 USD...  FML.  -.-  
Maybe I'm missing something here... it depends on what date/day you choose to fly. [here's an example](https://book.flysas.com/pl/SAS/wds/Override.action?SO_SITE_EXT_PSPURL=https://www.sas.dk/SASCredits/SASCreditsPaymentMaster.aspx&amp;SO_SITE_TP_TPC_POST_EOT_WT=50000&amp;SO_SITE_USE_ACK_URL_SERVICE=TRUE&amp;WDS_URL_JSON_POINTS=ebwsprod.flysas.com%2FEAJI%2FEAJIService.aspx&amp;SO_SITE_EBMS_API_SERVERURL=https%3A%2F%2Febwsprod.flysas.com%2FEBMSPointsInternal%2FEBMSPoints.asmx&amp;WDS_ACTIVATE_APP_FOR_CC_MOP=FALSE&amp;WDS_SERVICING_FLOW_TE_SEATMAP=TRUE&amp;WDS_SERVICING_FLOW_TE_XBAG=FALSE&amp;WDS_SERVICING_FLOW_TE_MEAL=TRUE) of a flight that's around 1150$ from houston to stockholm.

edit: that link didn't work. but go to www.sas.se and search for 1st of september to the 8th. Please tell me when you flush your shit it [does this](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2MD61S5pzjM) oh my god...why isn't this in my life? Jesus, if that's the bathroom what does the actual store look like? That toilet better play the goddamned pipe sound when it's flushed. Reminds me of the bathroom in Bobs Burgers. I'd be afraid to poop as I don't wish for a piranha flower to bite me in the butt. 10/10 would bang. ugh i want Is that real lava? yes Anybody on the other end of that pipe is in for some serious shit. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=uJmhHa3hGcc Can't believe Mario's getting shitted on just for exploring a pipe.  what evil ahole put the lava where the feet would go? no normal man will put their feet their now... you don't need to mix toilet business with a game of the floor is lava So unfair. Sweden gets hot women and kick-ass bathrooms? Forget the taxes, I need to move there right now. **THE FLOOR IS LAVA** I'd be afraid to accidentally fall into the pipe toilet.  That's probably a bitch to clean. http://img2.wikia.nocookie.net/__cb20130914012346/cardfight/images/f/fc/Shut-Up-And-Take-My-Money-1024x1280.jpg man mario is in for a nasty srprise Dat lava tho... The joke is that MineCraft is shit. Dude, come on.. I mean that's just.. it's great, but.. we all know some ass is gonna smear crap on the walls.  the floor is lava
 Apparently I missed the Super Mario room layouts in IKEA?  How does a physical videogame store have the money to do this?  Is this what their legendary social programs enable? they've branched out into other tech, home electronics and the likes. That makes more sense. My bum is on the Swedish....Swedish  Totally read this as battle room before I opened 10/10 would pee there again Gamer poop &gt; homeless poop Is there the mario pipe sound when you flush? I want there to be the mario pipe sound when you flush. I would take so many shits in therr upon seeing it I immediately heard the music. That's not even the toilet! That's the entrance. I hope it make the tube noise when you poop. that toilet has seen some of THE most rancid toxins.  This is why they charge admission to bathrooms in Sweden.  Blaaaaaaaaargh! I hope that toilet, when you flush it, makes the 'going down the tube' sound. /r/Peeviews would love this. One of two things are gonna happen if I sit on that toilet 1.my dick is gonna bite of 2.I'm gonna fall in and get teleported. I wonder what the plumber looks like. The porcelain pipe. So I wonder if they are planning for when people jump into the toilet? I want my bathroom to look like this I would be worried about a chomper plant... Cool but not sure if halal though. Awesome, but I don't want to warp to the poop world. I'll pick: "Toilets I don't want to use while on acid" for 100 coins, thanks Alex. It is still one of my favorite games ever. This is beyond epic. I have a friend living in Stockholm. I'm so getting her to go here just to take more pictures for me. Omg, I want to poop there so bad. I would have the hardest time pooping in that bathroom it's too colorful I have never wanted to take a dump as much as I do now.  I wanna poop there!
 Wait they have a bathroom... We don't have those in my country. I picture 2 goombas at the bottom of that tunnel having the worst days of their lives "Sir, you have to leave the bathroom." 

"Never! This is my home now!" Don't let any Chinese tourist in there.   I wonder if the toilet makes that "dadum dadum dadum" sound when you flush it. Bucket listed! Mommy can we go to sweden!? They got mario poop pipes! In this version of the game, the fireballs shoot straight down the pipe. Put out the lava! Put out the lava! Good thing it's a store and not a bar: drunk me would lose its shit walking in there all beer-o-vision and seeing this I don't like dark tiles in bathrooms because you just KNOW there's piss everywhere and you can't see it. Better if the lava squares are heated. In related news, King's new IP *Candy Fallout Crush Shelter* set to hit iTunes app store by the end of June.  King also said they would be trademarking the word "shelter".  To be fair, remember when Bethesda sued Mojang over Scrolls? Wich now makes a whole lot more sense considering their Elder Scrolls card game. Yep, games don't just pop up, they take years to make. I'm sure Bethesda's lawyers knew about the Elder Scrolls card game when the lawsuit happened.  More then likely, yeah. Though at the time everyone was right to be a little "Wtf dudes, really? Over the word scrolls?", sooo..I guess its all good now :D Developers also have a responsibility to pursue their trademark rights so as to maintain a clear history that shows they're trying to protect the brand.  If a dev doesn't make clear attempts at protecting it (even against clearly non-threatening titles), they have a much weaker case when they really do have to throw down in court against a serious infringement. Yeah, in the US, your under no obligation to pursue copyright infringement cases, your lack of enforcement cannot be used against you. Trademarks, on the other hand, you have to dogmatically protect and strangle everyone who even sneezes in your trademark's direction.

This is because Copyright is governed by the Copyright Clause of the constitution (article 1, section 8, clause 8), but Trademarks are governed under the Commerce Clause (article 1, section 8, clause 3). TIL It's even possible they were going to call the card game Scrolls They also filed a cease and desist on Jordan Maron's (CaptainSparklez's) new app, "Fortress Fury", as its original title was "Fortress Fallout". Granted, Fallout is the whole trademark. It'd be like if a game came out called The Banner Candy Crush Saga and King sued them to change the name.  You're not wrong, but Bethesda's whole reasoning (if I understood correctly) was that they didn't want people confusing Fortress Fury (formerly Fortress Fallout) with the Bethesda game series.   

Personally, Fury sounds a little cooler.  I could kind of see that argument, though. If I see something with fallout in the name I'd be interested and check if it has something to do with fallout. It makes a lot of sense when you consider they've been working on their own mobile app so fallout 'shelter' and 'fortress' fallout are even more confusable.  TBF I'd totally see the title "Fortress Fallout" and think of Fallout first.  Actually I read in this Notch-Minecraft biography that ZeniMax sued Mojang and Bethesda didn't want them to.

edit: [For those that are interested.](http://www.amazon.com/Minecraft-Unlikely-Persson-Changed-Everything/dp/1609805372) I was surprised about how good it was. That would make since Bethesda is the studio and understands the importance of keeping good will between other studios and developers.  ZeniMax would be the controlling interest and only focused on protecting their IPs and "the bottom line." Actually, ZeniMax sued Mojang, not Bethesda. Well ZeniMax owns Bethesda and the Elder Scrolls trademark, so it's understandable. Well, that's nothing. King trademarked the alphabet and the digits 0 through 9 as well as the sound of flatulence. Bummer. I owe him a ton of money for the last one.  Candy Fallout Crush Shelter *Saga*.   Dude, king is going to serve reddit a cease and desist order now.  Why you gotta ruin shit? Reddit Crush Saga *Clash of* Candy Fallout Crush Shelter Saga: *Age of Fire.* get a half naked woman to be in  the ad and we have a game In response, Bethesda sues for having released their game first.

In counter response, King buys 10 year old game that has Shelter in the name so they can illegitimize Bethesda's claim. THATS GREAT. IM REALLY HAPPY FOR THEM....





 -An Android Owner.  *sigh*

-A Windows Phone Owner There's more than one of us!?!?!

-A Windows Phone Owner You're the same person stahp. i run a summer camp and literally every kid is playing this game... none of them even know what fallout is Then the marketing is working perfectly, I imagine.  Exactly. This only makes Fallout's victory over Candy Crush so much sweeter! like taking candy from a baby That just makes me sad...not that they're playing video games at summer camp, but that they've never experienced Fallout... Actually, you should be happy, because they have yet to experience fallout for the first time First time you every see a Deathclaw launch itself to the moon is a magical experience.  they have no idea what greatness awaits in FO4 Oh, to have that feeling of walking out of a vault for the first time again... Well, I don't know how old these kids are, but actual fallout may be a bit brutal for them. &gt; none of them even know what fallout is

What a horrible childhood... For the first time as an android user, I feel sad. My friend keeps sending me screenshots of her vault. I have a Galaxy S6. I don't really like her much right now. Send her pictures of your balls in various states of undress.  ^

I've got a S6E, careful on the pictures of the balls you send her, the camera may show details of your balls even you're not aware of. As long as you zoom in close enough she won't be able to tell it apart from aerial photos of the Iraqi desert anyway... &gt; Hey, I've seen that before! "We're lookin' at balls, let's turn it around."

"Copy on balls." Those are balls!  &gt;Look honey...I'm on TV at least the Iraqi desert show some activity..... &gt;at least the Iraqi desert gets some action 

FTFY Can confirm, just learned last week that I have a near-perfect heart-shaped mole next to the ol' cash and prizes. I am unsure how to feel about it. "I wanna give my heart to you, girl." Just looked up "trepanation" because of your username.  Dude.  That's metal as fuck.   Okay, you can't talk about a near-perfect heart-shaped mole and not show us. As a Windows phone user, I've grown used to the disappointment. :( I think us iOS and Android folks can both sympathize with your situation.  Yeah, the phone itself is awesome. But the app store is so shit. Hopefully that changes with Windows 10. Mobile Game Developer here. It's a chicken-and-egg problem, we don't want to spend the development time making a game for a store that has so few customers, and because nobody wants to develop for the store, there continues to be so few customers.

Microsoft could've stood to have a decent review process for apps in their store as well, instead they let the store go to shit and it ended up with all kinds of malware or apps that didn't even work. By letting the quality of the store drop, customers are less likely to want to use it, which just means even fewer people will see your app, making it even harder to make a profit on the platform.

Microsoft did themselves no favors by using DirectX on the phone, forcing developers to support a different graphics API than Android and iOS use (OpenGL ES 2 and newer). They also didn't support native code (C++) on Windows Phone 7, which drove away a lot of developers early on that didn't rush back when Windows Phone 8 was released. Developers that had already made multi-platform apps for iOS and Android often did so through C++, and now their multiplatform app couldn't run on Windows Phone 7 without being ported. These things aren't as big of an issue for developers that are using game engines to abstract-away most of the hardware and platform, but that's not a luxury that all devs get to enjoy.

Unrelated: To speak to why many apps launch on iOS ~~first~~ before Android. There a handful of reasons, but there are two big ones that I often see:

1.) Apple will often hint (they never directly promise) that they will promote your app upon its global release, if you launch on iOS-exclusively for a few weeks or more. This allows them to advertise iOS-exclusive apps, and for the developer it can mean a good promotion. Just getting your app in the first 5 slots of 'Best New Games' often translates to at least 150k downloads per day, trailing off to 75-100k minimum by the end of the week long promotion. That's about 750k-1m downloads from a promotion. Without promotion or advertising and your game gets lumped in with the other few dozen games that are submitted each day, and you'll likely see download numbers less than 100 per day. Basically that means that if your app has even a decent ARPDAU (Average revenue per daily active user), that the promotion will bring in hundreds of thousands of dollars.

2.) Developing for iOS is easier and takes less time. The development tools for iOS devices are better. But most importantly, the number of hardware devices you'll likely need to test on is maybe 10-15, if you want to be safe. For Android you'll be releasing an app that will run on literally 3-5k different types of Android devices, depending on what kind of restrictions you place on minimum OS version, and some other stuff. Trying to get a game to run properly on most Android devices is a complete nightmare. If you don't have the backing of a decent game engine company (like Unity), then you may have to deal with all the individual qwirks of the different hardware and software issues between devices on your own. Subtle and ridiculous differences that aren't well documented and you often won't know about until the game is released and customers start complaining that your game sucks because it doesn't run on their obscure device. For example, Nvidia GPUs are some of the only mainstream Android devices with 16-bit depth buffers, everyone else is using 24-bit. Your game could run perfect on all iOS devices and not on any Tegra GPU for that reason. Or Qualcomm, who assigns non-sequential unique-identifiers to textures as texture handles, instead of the way just about every other OpenGL device out there does, which is to just increment a counter for each texture, which allows textures to be indexed in an array/list/vector. I've seen a game that ran fine on the Galaxy S2, S3, S4, and then the screen coords were completely screwed up on an S5. I can't remember the exact reason behind that one since it's been awhile, but Samsung made some obscure change in their hardware that forced us to handle the S5 specially. You end up with special case code all over the place to get things working on more and more devices, and that's the kind of shit you almost never have to do with iOS. Well microsoft is introducing 'porting' tools for both ios and android with windows 10. Appaz it runs some sort of android subsystem as well. Should be interesting.  &gt;we don't want to spend the development time making a game for a store that has so few customers, and because nobody wants to develop for the store, there continues to be so few customers.

You just described why the PS Vita doesn't have many Western games as well. So many words, so little upvotes  Few* So few words, so little upvotes. [http://i.imgur.com/hvbkxmG.jpg](http://i.imgur.com/hvbkxmG.jpg) What? Nothing.  Developing for Android sounds like a nightmare... If you're making a game? Yes. But if you're making some other kind of app? Yes. Well supposedly Windows 10 is going to make it *very* easy for devs to convert their existing Android and iOS apps to Windows Phone.  I'm really hoping it works... Give it time, the Windows store is still relatively new to the app game. And questionably too late unfortunately.  Mobile OS pretty much has 3 contenders including Windows. Microsoft has gone against worst chances than that. RIP Zune I love my Zune, even if I have never met anyone else with one. I still have my original Zune, and let me tell you a quick story. I moved somewhere for a new job, met a lot of new people. Out of this small group of friends I made, like 5 of them had Zunes. The end! i had one. damnthing still runs pretty well. I still think the way you can scroll through your albums (and the really cool background the PC program has - using all your album covers- is really fantastic) I use my Zune HD every single day. Love it. [Relevant penny-arcade](http://www.penny-arcade.com/comic/2007/01/03) Windows phone 10 will allow iOS apps to be recompiled for Windows phone and many android APKs to be used as is. 

That'll be a fairly significant game changer for Windows phone. As the cost of porting will be so low that it won't make much sense not to port your app. I was telling a friend years ago that windows phone would get big one day, all they needed was to make it easy to port apps and to harness their userbase of PC and Xbox users.  Windows 10 looks like they're finally getting close but it's still not good enough.  Streaming between all devices like a second screen is what they need to do, and allow PC applications to run on the phone and tablet.   People said the same thing about Androids when they came out barely pushing 10k apps while apple had over 200k.  The phone is a lot better than previous versions and outside of apps is a strong competitor. Android had open source app creating though so it boosted the market super fast. Microsoft has nothing to brag about. Yeah but that was years ago.  MS has had the chance to catchup but hasn't. I was watching an interview with the development team of Android 1.0. They mentioned that when IOS came out, they started scrambling for completion, because they were worried about what Microsoft was going to come out with. If you're not first, you'd better be second, because no one ever remembers third. I mean, not really? It was relatively new when I got a windows phone 4 years ago... Now it really should be caught up. It's a shame it's not though. Yeah, it seems like everybody is holding onto the "it's gonna be huge in no time" card when "no time" has seemingly already came and went. 

Unless they pull a rabbit out of their ass (which they are completely capable of) windows phone will likely die, which is seriously a bummer. Those things are pretty neat.  I've had a Lumia 1520 for 18 months after having a Samsung note and iphone in the past. Once my contract is up ill be switching back to iphone. I love my 1520 for the hardware, but the lack of apps and app support is embarrassing. Such a shame. SHAME.   Just ditched my winphone and went back to Android. I loved the WP platform and the hardware but the crippled app store ruins it. :( Well... [weeks or maybe months](http://www.idigitaltimes.com/fallout-shelter-android-release-date-bethesda-staffer-confirms-game-weeks-maybe-451001) away. [Why!?](http://i997.photobucket.com/albums/af92/MyBabydow/why.gif) I don't know whether to upvote or down vote Wait a few weeks or maybe months to decide. Soon^tm Yeah... so, if it's a matter of 'months' I will forget about it completely, and if its a matter of weeks, wtf, why didn't they just release them at the same time? Shenanigans. perhaps the rep heard that info weeks or maybe months ago!!! :DDDD Oh god. I imagined -- well, hoped -- that it was at most going to be a week and a half, but months? You're killing me. We must write to congress that we need more Fallout Shelter! The best part? They did it all without a pay wall

Edit: for those pming me about wether or not it is on Android your answer is literally one Google search away Truth. It is nice to see an enjoyable game that I do not get hounded to pay for all the time. In regular app-makers defense, Bethesda doesn't need to make money with their app.  Its meant to support the Fallout brand, and specifically the launch of Fallout 4.   Well the game is also in the top 10 highest grossing apps, so they are making bank anyway Getting character out of those lunchboxes is a god send. I haven't bought any but got Rothchild and he fathers all the children. Yay insest. Until you go to breed generation 3 and they won't mate because they are just "hanging out with family". My lvl 30 harkness spawned a large 2nd generation by parading all the women in the vault into the living quarters wearing the ceremonial +4 C robes. Now 3rd generation is a bit harder to find partners who aren't related.  That's mostly the selling point at least for me as well as it just looking fun as hell. Ironic that it's a selling point when you don't have to pay for it. So you are saying it's 100% enjoyabe without _having_ to pay? I would have no issue with buying the app, but I refuse IaP on principle. You don't have to pay a penny. The lunchboxes might help, but everything is built instantly and you can progress 100% without needing to ever purchase a thing. You can even get free lunchboxes by doing optional objectives that usually occur from normal play anyway. You can buy boxes, but I haven't felt the need to at all. If anything, it'd feel like cheating. As if I have to pay money as a penalty for being an impatient d-bag. You CAN pay if you want. The only thing you can pay for is "lunchboxes", which contains 4 pieces of loot. Loot can range from anything to food and money to weapons and armor. These lunchboxes can also be earned by completing tasks in the game.

So all in all, there is no downside to not paying. And residents. Some of the legendary residents are OP as dick and come with some good gear. Nothing you can't make yourself midgame though just helps at the beginning. You get like 3-4 boxes free from objectives your first couple days which is where I got mine. It is 100% enjoyable without having to pay. My 4s doesn't run it very well :/ Mine doesn't at all. Crashes in the tutorial every time.  My friends I have a running joke that crashing is part of the Fallout experience! No wonder, game is fun as hell Its really fun until you get to this point (pic my shelter) http://imgur.com/mEqOZlo then you run out of things to do. Its a great game but sadly theres no endgame.

Update: maxed out my available buildings now with 2 x nuka cola 3 wide rooms: http://imgur.com/i07oWq4

/r/falloutshelters How did you get so many people so fast  No bullshit, here's what I have without purchasing a single lunchbox:

http://i.imgur.com/mpCF34T.jpg

**Just read the spoiler if you want to know how.**

I found a loophole. I can write it here (with a spoiler tag of course), which will likely get me a lot of shit from people for boosting.

~~EDIT 1: If you want to know, please PM me, don't reply to this comment so that I don't write it in this thread by mistake.~~

**EDIT 2: The PMs are gonna become too overwhelming for me, I can tell. I'm gonna write it here with a spoiler tag.** 

[So just go into your phone's settings and turn off automatic date and time. Then you can progress your game forward by however much you want, so then you can level up your stuff really fast. You can also use this method to complete the objective really quickly (so you can get a lot of free lunchboxes). Another thing I've been doing is sending out my highest level guy with badass armor and a good gun and a bunch of stimpacks and radaway. I'll fast forward time several hours and keep checking he's still alive. When he's out of stimpacks or radaway, or I have to revive him (costs 1000 caps), I call him back to the Vault. When he comes back he's be stocked full of guns, outfits, and caps so make sure you have your storage upgraded!](/spoiler) This is possible in like 90% of 'play to wait' games like this. Been doing it since CSR Racing. Doesn't work in server based games though, like Plunder Pirates. Basically any game that works offline that has any timer is based off of the devices clock. *cough*BloonsTowerDefence5*cough*, if you want those daily prizes to level shit up fast! I'm interested in this since I've already gotten to the point where it gets a bit boring.

Edit-thx. Slight bug with this glitch. If you have any dead people you're waiting to revive, they'll disappear and you can't get them back. I lost  a rare character (James) this way. It is 2 days old. The popularity it has justifies numerous expansions and updates. They will not let something like this burn out. Brahmin Armour DLC Beware the battle cattle!  You only have 84% happiness.... There is more you can do.  Can't let the be completely happy, gotta let them struggle in life to be fulfilled. Are you sure you would rather manage your own Vault then match different candies together? than*, otherwise you pretty much mean the opposite. I dunno, a reskinned Bejeweled is much more original. /s A reskinned tiny tower is much more original. /s It's been so long since I got addicted to an iOS game! Just wish they'd patch the crashing issues on all the devices that aren't current gen iphones or big Ipad. My little current itouch crashes pretty often. I just wish they released a copy on Steam.  Shit I'd even pay for it. Me too. The mod support would be awesome 2d nudity. 2d nudity everywhere... Modding. Modding never changes.  Ah, mods for a Bethesda game on Steam; what could possibly go wrong? But with it's graphic style it would be hilarious.  This. I would pay 4.99 for it on Steam. 1.99 please. 5 dolllars for a port of this game is too much. It always crashes after I try loading a vault :( I'm assuming I just can't run it properly with an iPod 5 or whatever.

EDIT: looks like I didn't even know what model my iPod was...I think. Also, updated my iOS and now it works fine so thanks to whoever suggested that.

EDIT 2: I did, in fact, know what model my iPod was. I got confused but it's all apples and grapes now. [deleted] Same problem for me on ipad 2.

Only app that crashes for me so far. I havent even made it to 15 dwellers yet, get to about 10-12 ish and the game wont even open up without crashing i can get to where you click on go to vault (whatever number) button and thats as far as it goes.

Ipad 2 may be a bit older but i simply cant afford a new one so im stuck with it. Didnt even really want this one but was given a hell of a deal on it due to a friend going to jail and being unable to use it and needing commissary money so i was like fuck it and at first didnt even use it but now love the thing lol. I have an Ipad 2 as well, and I have the same issues. However I wouldn't say that "no other game" does this. Any game that is graphics heavy leads to this sort of thing.

Hearthstone also had this issue... 

I find now with my Ipad, that I have to make sure no apps are sitting in memory. I clear them constantly. Currently trying to decide if it's worth upgrading my Ipad.
 Are you up to date on apple updates? Its more how old the ipod hardware is, its about the same as an iphone 4s(both are a5's).     I doubt the app runs well on a 4s either.

Edit: it looks like it requires at least an Iphone 5 so it probably needs at least that a6  processor to run, the ones before that probably are just too slow. I have a 4s and it crashes a ton probably is a Hardware problem. 4s owner here, can confirm that I can't even load my vault anymore. My 4s crashes often, especially during the rushes  I'm having the same problem on my ipod 5th gen :( Same. I tried to play it yesterday, and just couldn't handle the constant crashing. Last night I couldn't even load a vault, when earlier I could at least get as far as collecting from one of the rooms once. I'm so freaking addicted to this app and I have no idea why they made it that way.
 Exactly. They took all the addictive ideas from the popular addictive games and made it fallout-themed. Lots of achievements, timers which make you come back later, click-and-reward. It's designed to get you thinking about Fallout every few days until the game comes out, and it's working on me.  Been playing non stop for a couple of days, here are a few helpful hints that will get your vault up and running in no time!

-Dwellers have certain S.P.E.C.I.A.L attributes which make them produce more resources when assigned to certain room types. ( Dwellers with high agility stat produce food from dinners quicker than dwellers with a lower agi stat.
-Dwellers are happier when working in a room that compliments their highest stat
-Complete challenges ASAP to get lunch boxes. Lunch boxes give you resources, weapons, armor, and rarely, elite Dwellers. Confessor Cromwell pwns.
-There are 3 methods of gaining new Dwellers:
 
-Waiting for them to randomly show up at your vault door(low    chance later in game)

 -Sending a male and female dweller into a Living quarters room. Give it enough time and they will make a baby! To make the baby making process faster, make sure your maters have a similar charisma level. It takes 3 real hours for the baby to be born, and 3 real hours for the child to become an adult. A bit of warning, children drain resources at adult level, but can't be assigned to work, so be sure not to have too many pregnancies at once. In addition, pregnant women will not fight Radroach infestations, fires, or bandits. 

-Occasionaly, your base will be raided by bandits!!! They can chop through your vault door in seconds at level 1, so I recommend upgrading it ASAP! Also, make sure your best armed and armored Dwellers are assigned work close to the vault door, ensuring quick transit to the Vault door room. When bandits are inside, they will drain your resources, and occasionally switch rooms, so make sure you have additional Dwellers waiting just outside the vault room.

-A room of CRITICAL importance is the Radio Room. It is the third method of gaining new Dwellers! Once every few hours, the room will broadcast a signal, and bring a new dweller to your doorstep. As if that wasn't good enough, it also boosts the happiness of all your Dwellers!!

-Perhaps the most important tip however concerns the building of rooms within your vault! All rooms, with the exception of the vault door room, can be expanded to 3 room lengths. The expanded rooms can hold 6 dwellers, is cheaper overall to upgrade, produces more resources, and at a faster rate! "Sounds OP as fuck!!!!" You say? Well the downside to 3 long rooms is they consume MUCH more power than a 1 long room, forcing you to balance room size with power consumption!

-once you have some decently equipped Dwellers, you will want to send them to explore the Wasteland! Resist the temptation to send Dwellers out untill you have at least 3 armed Dwellers(1 to explore, 2 to fight off marauding bandits). When out in the waste, your survivors will earn exp killing monsters, find caps, and even find new armors and weapons for Dwellers! Your Explorer will take physical and rad damage in the wastes, so if you're going to send them out for more than 45 minutes, equip them with stims and radaways. To send a Dweller to explore, simply drag them outside your vault door, then add the stims and rads necessary for the length of trip. The longer the Dweller is outside, the more exp, caps and loot you can find!! To see what your Explorer is doing, simply tap the wasteland outside your base, and a event log will pop up for your Explorer. To recall your explorer, click the red recall button bottom right. It takes half the exploration time to return to the vault, goodies in tow!

- Later in the game you can build med bays and science labs to produce stims and rads, but lunchboxes are a decent source if you're lucky early on.

-Eventually you can build stat training rooms, such as gyms, classrooms, and game rooms. Higher stats means more production in given rooms! 

-Another danger to your Vault is fires and Radroach infestations. When one pops up, IMMEDIATELY SEND DWELLERS!!!! These emergencies will spread like wildfire(excuse the pun) and can quickly overwhelm you at early levels!!

Well folks, that was a bit more than anticipated! Hope this guide will help you Overseers expand to a massive, thriving community! Good luck!

 I love how your "helpful hints" are basically the hints the game gives but with more words. Lol.  Android version please Bethesda, not sure how they weren't developed side by side.  Ha!

About time something beat that garbage.

Candy crush is the gaming equivalent of click-bait with the majority of the articles hidden behind a fucking paywall. Now we wait for it to beat out Game of IAP(fire) and CoC When I saw CoC I did not think clash of clans... Fenoxo pls I'm glad I'm not the only one! Man i love Corruption of Champions What's wrong with candy crush? I've never bought anything and I'm almost at level 800. People only pay for Candy Crush if they want to, there's really nothing forcing you to. That's very true. Although I will admit I'm annoyed they got rid of quests for moving on to the next episode. Now I've got to bother other people to help me get to the next episode. Fortunately I never linked to Facebook so it's random people I don't know, but I still feel weird doing it. I enjoy candy crush. It's a fun casual puzzle game.  [deleted] Not on Android? What is this 2010? To me, Fallout Shelter definitely benefits from a role playing aspect you'd expect in other Fallout games.

In Fallout 3, I created an ugly and dumb yet oddly charming woman who did anything to take every hat out there. Be it killing, stealing, or trading, all hats are mine.

I brought a similar level of role play over to FS. Some of my upper level workers were also guards in certain cases, and since these guards happened to be mostly female (combination of agility favoring women in my vault and having my largest diner up top), this spawned a strange cult of warrior women who abstained from having sex. After changing their names to end with "The Pure," they were forever bound to a life of abstinence and badass gun fights.

I'd also name some of my dwellers after people I know, and try and fit them to that role. I named one guy "Robbaz of Sweden" (YouTube guy) and buffed the shit out of his strength. Then he banged every woman in the vault. After banging one of the Pure, Robbaz was banished to the Wastelands for a full day with the armor and weapons he held and 3 of each health/RAD item (he got lucky with his good armor and I forgot that he served as the third floor roach exterminator so he had a decent gun). The Pure lady was renamed to "The Unpure," and was also damned to a day outside the vault. She wasn't so lucky with her items, but so far she picked up better items in the Wasteland than Robbaz. 

Fallout Shelter is similar to most of my experiences playing Bethesda games. The actual gameplay isn't exactly the best, but the world is yours to manipulate, and by the gods is Vault 666 being manipulated.  Want to know Bethesda's secret? *They're not fucking stupid* lol, suck it King!

Cant wait to play it on Android. I would have installed it on my phone.

HAD THEY RELEASED THE ANDROID VERSION AT THE SAME TIME!!!! Every time I see one of these Fallout Shelter posts my mood just drops. I want to play the damn game, you might as well just come door to door and spit on us Android users. Fallout is my favorite series, so much so that I'm currently playing through NV on an i3 with integrated graphics. It has crashed 3 times in the past hour, on lowest settings, but seeing New Vegas peak out from behind RobCo when i finally pass the death claws was worth starting it up 3 times. Bethesda you made so many great memories among these players, but now you've created a bad memory of your games for a lot of Android users. 3 months on the App store before we get it is 100% a limited timed exclusive and I'm just kind of hurt. It should be about your fans Bethesda, not about developing for the App store first because their user base is bigger. I see no reason why both versions can't be out :( fuck... 4 months, 3 weeks, 1 day and 22 hours until Fallout 4. I'm curious to see how long it will be before the appstore is full of F:S clones. Wouldn't be surprised if King.com tosses out an almost exact copy and sues Zenimax for copyright infringement. Microsoft, please include a PC version of Fallout Shelter with Windows 10 instead of Candy Crush. I did like the game, but only for a couple of days. After a little bit I just realized the pointlessness of the game when I'm really not trying to achieve anything that difficult. Literally the only thing you have to do is breed every single woman you have, and make living quarters, diners, generators, and water treatment plants accordingly, which all happen to be the first rooms you unlock. The buildings to train everyone are a joke and take obnoxiously long for the minimal benefits where simply more people solve the problem in the same way. The only interesting thing in the game is the logs when someone is exploring, and even that gets boring after the hundredth radroach is killed. I truly wished for this game to be more exciting and than it was with all of the fallout hype, but it just could not live up to its expectations after the E3 announcement. It's a mobile game. Sounds like par for the course to me. I didn't like dragging people from room to room on an iPhone.  Too small.  And trying to place people by stats was annoying.  You can click on the clipboard to see who is available but then i'd end up taking them from somewhere they were needed instead of living quarters. I'm hoping they expand on it because, like you said, after a certain point it gets really easy and there's probably little to do, but I dunno. Not sure what they could do to really make the game more interesting. There's definitely some stuff they could do to make the interface easier to play though. It'd be nice to be able to set a "home" room to a dweller so if I want to grab an individual person and send him to train or to a living quarter to make babies, I could easily press a button and send him back to where he needs to work.

I think its better enjoyed at a slow pace though. I've had it for a couple days now and my vault is still only a few levels and I have maybe 25 vault dwellers. I just never really sit with it for a long time. I usually check it every now and then to grab my resources, collect some caps, and check on my wastelander(s), then if I have time I might spend 15 minutes or so adding on a new room or dicking around and rushing my people. I know it'd be easy to just get all my women pregnant and skyrocket my population, but I don't really want to be done with it in a couple days. I think it would make it much more enjoyable, for relatively little effort, to turn the exploring logs into a choose your own adventure style game. 


e.g., if you send out a character with high charisma...

1:02 I can see some rouge slaves in the distance

A: Approach, B: Attack, C: Hide

1:03 I approach the slaves to see if they want to trade

1:04 The slaves seem friendly

1:05 The slaves are going for their weapons. I should not have made a pass at that Ghoul.

1:06 The slaves are dead. I found 42 Caps. 


ecetera


You can ignore it, and they will do what they want, or just jump in and play. Text-based Fallout, until F4 is released!  The game being in it's infancy and the popularity it has already gained... should lead to future expansions to the game. One can hope. I've had more than a few friends talk to me about how iphones are so much better. Never once did that bother me. Games would come out for iPhone first and months later they would come out for Android. Never batted an eye. I'm now legit jealous I don't have one. I'm not about to tell anyone that though. Oh wait..  I sure am enjoying it on my iPhone...IF I HAD ONE! Good. King sues Bethesda for controlling the market. Good. Fuck Candy Crush and it's asshole developers. All these idiots defending Candy Crush, aka ripped off bejeweled with more paywalls, owned by a company that makes satan feel squeamish. Never understood the draw of the generic, overdone Candy Crush games... Candy crush is still a thing? Amazing news. It's so refreshing to see a mobile game that actually feels like a game. It'd be nice if they fucking put it on android Isn't Candy Crush a stolen IP anyway? Good riddance.  Still baffled on why the Android version wasn't released at the same time, it's such a letdown to us Android people Why no android support? :( It's almost like when micro transactions aren't forced into your face, people will want to support you. BRING IT TO ANDROID!  I'm a very sad Android user :( There IS an android version but they won't let it leave The Institute. The app ends up making five times as much as fallout 4 and Bethesda decides to make apps full time and stop all non app game development. Their next release is "Angry scrolls". I can't play it. It keeps crashing on me, any news on when they will fix it? Iphone 5+ on IOS 7+ is required.  Do you meet both of these requirements? Android please Only on ios. Lame TIL of an app called fallout shelter Not only can we bring the wasteland of Fallout with us on our phones, it is also free! Hopefully this will bring about the Android launch quicker For video games, 2015 was a good year.  

*pops a bottle*

Like a fine wine.  You can cheat by changing the time in General Settings. Happy for this, but still confused as to why a game which was heavily advertised at Microsoft's E3 show - and will also be on a console owned by Sony, whose phones use Android - have decided to release on iOS long before either Android or Windows. God damn it. Now I have to upgrade my iPhone 4S. It crashes every 2 minutes.  As an android user this drives me nuts, whTs the app like Where is my android app  I have no idea what Fallout Shelter is, I get it has something to do with the Fallout series, but anything that removes Candy Crush from the number one spot gets my upvote! Sorry to sound nooby but is there any way you can pause the game? I leave my phone for an hour and I run out of water and electricity  I just need to know if you can still land safely by grappling the ground and accelerating yourself towards the earth. In JC 2 the best way to get around was grappling the ground then deploying your chute an inch away from the ground launching you 100 feet into the air then repeatedly doing that as soon as you were in the sky.

It was like popcorning across the lands. 

 There was a great rhythm you could get into where you could continually slingshot yourself faster and faster as long as you aimed the hook right, god JC2 is one of my favorite games ever. Then the hook accidentally auto-targets a person, instantly halting your momentum and pulling them off the ground while a jeep full of people shooting at you and shouting "pandak panayyyy!!!!" Appears out of nowhere. Next thing you know, the whole village is on fire and you're grappling from helicopter to helicopter throwing out each pilot.  That game gave me such a freedom boner I played 12 hours of *Js2*,11 of them never landing with a parachute. But that's the best part. See, you open the parachute a millisecond before you hit the ground and watch your ragdoll body tumble across the mountainous slopes. The best part is destroying water towers "for the people"  "I'm destroying your necessary infrastructure so that you won't be  oppressed by this despot anymore" lol that's what I was thinking when I watched the trailer yesterday. "Free your people from this oppressive regime, while also blowing their shit up." Chaotic Good: when finding the truth, and blowing shit up go hand in hand. Chaotic Neutral best alignment. [Chaotic Neutral.](https://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/e/ee/SMBC_comic_25_March_2008,_with_caption.png) Wouldn't that be more of a Neutral Evil?
I wouldn't consider chasing children with a lance especially good.
Or lawful for that matter...
Heck, I've changed my mind, he's chaotic evil! Jump on my sword while you can evil! "Fuck your bridge" CREATE JOBS REBUILDING BRIDGES!
 I hope that rebuilding that bridge will take just as much as driving away a minute and then driving back, cuz I wanna be blowin that shit up more often than in that trailer! Uhm, isn't almost every game using flimsy pretenses to justify shooting people and blowing shit up? Maybe it's a parody on that idea, hence why they called it "Just Cause" which is a silly name on its own. I just realised that it's a double entendre 

*facepalm* Is it a just cause or is it just 'cause? It's a triple entendre. Its a Just Cause, you do it just cuz, and the first game was based on Operation Just Cause. It is a parody idea, Just Cause was also the operation name of the US invasion of Panama. I like to think you're right, but I dunno. Then again, maybe it explains the terrible acting in Just Cause 2.  I've never heard more convincing accents in my life  The B action movie trope is basically what the game is made around. You can't be a dictator if there's nobody left to dictate! Hey, it worked in Iraq... Was it "for the people"? I was under the impression that Rico's sole motivation was the destabilization of the country so that the US could topple the dictatorship on Panau. It's basically 1980s Foreign Policy: The Game. Well he was actually helping 3 separate guerilla factions, so pretty much terrorists. Exactly. On top of toppling a foreign government, he was actively helping criminal factions (mobsters, communist revolutionaries, and religious fanatics). These are the people who were being set up to replace Panay's regime. Just Cause 2 is about as cynical as a game can be and I love it! &gt; These are the people who were being set up to replace Panay's regime.

Yeah, as a puppet government so the USA can keep on receiving Panauan oil. In the desert. There's communism in the water. [Yep](https://jaysanalysis.files.wordpress.com/2015/05/water.jpg) &gt; Js2

Just Sauce?  You don't use the superman mod? I thought the 1km long grappling hook was more fun That was my favorite too. "Oh, I can see an island in the distance!" *fwip fwip fwip fwip ker-chunk shwooooooooooop* &gt;That was my favorite too. "Oh, I can see an island in the distance!" *fwip fwip fwip fwip fwip fwip fwip fwip fwip fwip fwip fwip fwip fwip fwip fwip fwip fwip fwip fwip fwip fwip fwip fwip fwip fwip fwip fwip fwip fwip fwip fwip fwip fwip fwip fwip fwip fwip fwip fwip fwip fwip fwip fwip fwip fwip fwip fwip fwip fwip fwip fwip fwip fwip fwip fwip fwip fwip fwip fwip fwip fwip fwip fwip fwip fwip fwip fwip fwip fwip fwip fwip fwip fwip fwip fwip fwip fwip fwip fwip fwip fwip fwip fwip fwip fwip fwip fwip fwip fwip fwip fwip fwip fwip fwip fwip fwip fwip fwip fwip fwip fwip fwip fwip fwip fwip fwip fwip fwip fwip fwip fwip fwip fwip fwip fwip fwip fwip fwip fwip fwip fwip fwip fwip fwip fwip fwip fwip ker-chunk shwooooooooooop*

 Apparently Cubans are very interested in this technologly I used the [blackmarket mod](http://justcause2mods.com/mods/everything-unlocked-available-though-the-black-market/) and the [increased grappling hook](http://justcause2mods.com/mods/increased-grapple-range-speed/). I like to think that making things *more* realistic than JC2 was strictly off limits If you enjoy that, get Dying Light. Its a great game, and can confirm you can grapple straight down to prevent fall damage. In, you know, the second half of the game Yeah, but the game is still tons of fun before you get it. I really only use it to make a quick escape or to grapple to the ground  Yes, it is tons of fun, and the hook is a good balance between keeping the existing movement as is and enhancing it with "too-far" jumps or using it offensively. Just griping that it took so long to get lol. I remember when I unlocked the grappling hook in Dying Light I didn't even want to use it.  Then I loaded back into my game at some point and accidentally had the grappling hook equipped and accidentally used it and accidentally never unequipped it ever again. I'm also mildly perturbed that it didn't have a dedicated button to use. Would've made it much more convenient. Yeah, I got through a fair amount of the story before playing coop, and all my friends had the grappling hook and wayyy better weapons than me :( Appeared so.  He went from Batman to Spiderman to Superman within 6 seconds. And he's gonna go Terminator within the next 3 seconds. Tagline He's Batman Beyond, grappling and little flying wings. Sweet, I can't wait for countless more hours of grappling hook flying all over the map and completely ignoring missions.  There are missions? MY NAME IS BOLO SANTOSI
Edit: wow my highest rated comment so this is how it feels to have a comment in the thousands! I am the leada of da revolutionary army known as da REAPAS!! Yuu are the Scorpio, no? I heer yu are veeery skeeelled! Esc  ^^Esc 



^^^^Esc     Esc




Esc   ^^^^Esc     






ESC Who skips cutscenes??? Never since I was a 12 year old playing on Playstation have I skipped cutscenes!  You obviously haven't played Just Cause 2. The story and cut scenes were terrible. Just a segue into blowing shit the fuck up.  But they were so delightfully terrible. Pretty intentionally terrible too, I thought.  Yea, it was like playing a B action movie. Cheesy, corny, over the top preposterous unintentional comic relief is the best.  Just Cause 3 should keep the original JC2 vibe.  It was great.  Ain't nobody got time for that. go ahead and destroy that for me, would you serdadu? Dah Roachezz They tell me I am the best. We can only dream of the return of "WHAT AH YU DOOING TO MAH CAAAH" *"OH MY GAAAAAAAAAAAAAAHD"* *Comb-RAID* Ahhhh he hooked me with his wire thing! that like always cracks me up, especially when i hook them to one of those tanks that shoots off like a rocket Our goal is for the people of paaanaow to rise up and break the chains of OOppression  booooohroooh san tohhhhhh see REEEEEEEE PAZ Damn, I haven't played JC2 since the year it came out yet can still hear her say that. Yes, but they pretty much just involve blowing stuff up, so you don't even notice you're doing them. "Why would you do that?"

"...just cause" I thought that was the meaning to the title for the longest time....or I still think it is...i dont know anymore You and me both. Fighting for a just cause, or blowing shit up 'just cause'. Works either way. Or maybe it's also referring to Operation Just Cause where the US invaded the tropical, Central American nation of Panama. 

Triple entendre.  This game is going to be amazing!  I played JC2 to death.  The destructible environments look great also.  In the trailer you can see him grapple kick a guy into a random short wall and it breaks.  Looks like everything is breakable.  I'm going to break so much stuff! The bridges collapse.

I really hope that you can blow up a bridge and then come back later where some poor locals with horribly racist accents are rebuilding it and then you can blow it up again. As a bridge engineer, I suddenly have mixed feelings about this game. Whatever you say, goat fucker.  I don't get it, am I tagged as goat fucker for some reason? You ever fuck a goat?  I think it may be related to that adage of "you can spend your life building bridges and eventually become known as a bridge builder, but if you fuck one goat.."  your comment is the only think to make me laugh on reddit so far today job security for you. &gt; then come back later where some poor locals with horribly racist accents are rebuilding it

I want it to be in a partial but nearly complete state before I blow it the fuck up again. You monster! I picked up JC2 for five bucks a few years ago not knowing anything about it.  I spent the first hour or so just breaking everything I could. Then immediately started doing stunts.  I *eventually* played the storyline but it took a few days.  There were just too many sweet jumps to do off mountains and shit.  I read sometime later that the developers made the physics over-the-top on purpose to increase the fun factor.  They did a great job and JC3 has my money on release day.  Can't wait!   I never played the first one but tried the demo and was amazed at how fun it was.  And the area to explore felt HUGE.  But it was a timed demo and when it ends it shows the demo area, and then zooms out to show you that the fully explorable map was 10 times bigger than the area in the demo.

THAT sold me immediately.  It's one of my favorite games to just pop in and start tearing shit up.  I keep finding new fun things to do like stick yourself to a tank and then make it shoot up in the air, or stand on one of the friendly gang's vehicles as it drives around and shoot the tether at bad guys chasing you.

It's just endless fun.
 I played the demo for two years before I bought the game. It's probably the best demo I've ever played Sounds like you played it exactly as intended. JC and JC2 were games that I absolutely loved but didn't play very much of. Same with every Far Cry game there's ever been. Same with Minecraft.

I'm beginning to question whether there's any point in me buying sandbox games. I really enjoy them while I'm playing them, but there always comes a point where I have a short break, and then end up never playing them ever again.

Linear story-driven games I always go back to, but sandbox games I play to death for about 5-10 hours and then never play again. I wish I didn't do this, but it always seems to happen. Holy shit. I can't wait. If the game had no story and no combat--nothing but a gigantic world with a grappling hook and a wingsuit--I would still buy it.  The story and missions were quite dull in JC2, I never finished them.  Dat moment when JC2 missions were fucking awesome and you never got to jump from nuke to nuke while they were blazing through the air. Oh and you fight a midget dictator with your fists while doing that. "So what do we give the people that *don't* just go full ADD grappling around the map?"

"...fist fighting a midget dictator on nuke-back."

"Why a midget dictator?"

"...[shades] Just Cause." "Alright, how are we going to do this for JC3?"

"...easy, just add 3 midget dictators on nuke-back"

"But, why 3?"

"...[shades]Just Cause 3 is better than 2." Damn that was good. I'm with you on that.  The early missions were a bit dull, but after that they just added to the sillyness that is JC2, especially the whole island base raid and eventual nuclear missile fistfight that's like a 90's action movie on crack.  I really thought the game was trying to be serious until the ninjas showed up, then that masterpiece with the nukes. Not to mention the whole Lost island gimmick with the WW2 vets.  I liked that mission until the very end, when you had to get the shitty truck down to the beach without losing crates. The driving was bad enough normally, but that part seemed even worse. It'll never beat Assassin's Creed and its fistfight with The Pope, mitre and all. in the sistine chapel no less.  such a fantastic moment in gaming. My friends mom came into the basement and made him turn it off during thst fight because "hitting the Pope is offensive" we were 20 at the time :/ She clearly doesn't remember reading about THAT Pope. What all popes are good people and are the path to salvation /s The Pope fucking started it! I knocked his hat off but he wouldn't stop. End of II or beginning of Brotherhood. Or both. Can't really remember.  Uhhhh, which one was that 2 The very end of Assassins Creed II  Huh, I swear I beat that. Was that the Borgia one? I'm pretty sure I only plated through the first 3... The one with Da Vinci right? Borgia and Da Vinci. The very last chapter is in Rome, Borgia has become the pope. [Pope Alexander VI](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pope_Alexander_VI) That's like the best part. And it's not even a hard fight. Never bring fists to a gun fight. Hot damn! You just sold me on this game. Is the first one good too? Honestly i would skip the first one. It more like proof of concept compared to 2. The first one is so bad that I can't believe someone paid for them to do a second.  I'm damn glad they did though! * Racing across an icy lake in a limo with a dozen vehicles pursuing you.

* Driving a vehicle down a ski course.

* Riding on nuke(s).

* Trashing the Mile High Club.

I was disappointed that I couldn't replay missions I had already beaten.

Even the missions that weren't particularly interesting were still "go to a place and kill guys or blow things up," and that's what you were going to be doing anyway. Wow. You really missed out. Honestly, it's worth going back and doing it, especially once the ninjas turn up. Some of them were fun. I remember one mission you had to blow up three missiles before they were launched to save the island or something, and as soon as you blow up the third missile the bad guy had a 4th hidden missile and launched. The only way you could stop the missile was by hijacking a jet from the bad guy's base and shooting the missile down in the air. Or you could have done it like I did and just aim the jet at the missile and parachute away, while looking at the awesomeness that it caused. well spoiler alert:

The final mission is you vs a midget and some ninjas while riding 3 nuclear misiles.

i have an erection just by remembering that. You don't play JC2 for the missions... You play the missions to casually guide you through JC2 destinations.  I reached out to Avalanche Studios about the gameplay footage. 

[Here is the spokesman's official comment when I inquired about the parachute suit.](http://i.imgur.com/0OEkGPm.png) That's pretty awesome This guy is just batman without the costume and morality.  If also mixed with Spider Man, and bits of Bionic Commando. And Cyborg Jesus. And Cyborg Jess. [source](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QJhWeRyVDD0) I wish there's gonna be a big, upscale town like this: http://www.hdtimelapse.net/content/HDtimelapse.net_City/HDtimelapse.net_City_0777_hirez.jpg

You really need the variation from wilderness to midcity. &gt;big, upscale town like this

That's not a town, [that's a country](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Monaco). Okay, that was amazing. These guys get how to make a fun game. holy shit. Love the motorcyclist who goes over the edge at 6:23 This is what AAA developers should focus on. Throw all that money at making things huge and fun, fuck realism.

*I really hope the game doesn't actually cut away to those camera angles, though I highly doubt it, I'm sure the cutaways are just for demo purposes.  Yeah because every game needs to be about blowing shit up, if every game was you would be moaning there were no big, epic story games.

This game has its niche. Realism games are good too, the problem is there isnt enough of them and the big AAA games have literally no realism to them other than some visuals. What you are referring to would be games that claim to be realistic to appear cool but are actually just the same as all other, atleast that seems right. What a stupid ass game.

And hell yes, I'm gonna buy it. I also love a good ass game. Oh. Is your mother still making games?  You sonofabitch. Suck it, Trebek! They really should have made the name of the series "Just Cuz" "YOLO" setting: a town i built in tropico 4 last year. UNLIMITED. C4.  This.  This is the best part of JC3. Wait, really? 

Pre-order, here I come!  What sold me is that Just Cause 3 will be same size as Just Cause 2 (400 square miles (1,000 km^2) ) and more beautiful terrain. Perfect, the map was so freaking huge I can't imagine any map bigger being anything but a pain to get around.  Not gonna lie, when I heard it was the same size, and on superior consoles/PC, all I could think of was [this](http://i.imgur.com/Nu8ocEx.jpg). 

Can't wait to experience friggin' Medici. I just hope it has some random events like GTA V. I wont be complaining if it doesn't, but that would be a nice feature because at points in JC 2 it was just empty terrain once you blew enough stuff up Just cause physics don't matter. Not to Rico Motherfucking Rodriguez they don't. Woah, you remember the protagonist's name.

I'm pretty sure I played through it and I have no recollection of what the story was. I think there was a boat involved at some point. Theres a guy who apparently went rogue but hes doing something good then you blow everything up by riding on nukes. Having played through the story, pretty much this And in the end it was all about fighting for oil.  HUGE twist that no one saw coming...except you spent the whole game blowing up oil rigs and fuel dumps. Spoiler alert? Nah, too late to be a spoiler now I really enjoyed the Mile High Club, who doesn't want a massive airborne nightclub?
 What's funny is I had so much fun blowing shit up that I didn't realize that the "just cause" was oil even though the signs were everywhere. New patented Fiziks engine.  Another beautiful world to completely ignore the story in and engulf in flames :) This is a game that makes you move in your chair as you play it. Because of how uncomfortable your boner is? Because you have to pee but you are too busy wingsuiting? That flight suit is awesome and all, but did anyone else notice the **LARGEST MOVING LAND MACHINE IN HUMAN HISTORY, THE BAGGER 288 GIANT BUCKET WHEEN LOADER** in the preview?? 

(im assuming it's the bagger)

pics: 

http://imgur.com/a/b1uR7#0


link in /r/justcause: 

http://www.reddit.com/r/JustCause/comments/3a37xz/screen_grabs_from_todays_this_is_just_cause_3/

if there's a just God, we should be able to drive these and mow down mountains. But thenagain programming that might overburden the development team.  [Obligatory](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=azEvfD4C6ow) Welp, I guess I better play Just Cause 2 now.  Yes. You should. Quit your job if you have to. Play it. At this point I've concluded that Rico must have some inertia canceling device  A parachute? I remember my friend persuaded me to get Just Cause 2, best game I played on my PS3 but I still only got 98.4% completion, which drove me nuts... If it makes you feel better, console its impossible to 100% JC2. There's a few things missing. "only" Just imagine the stress his poor ligaments are under with the constant grappling at high speeds. Dislocations everywhere! This make me super pumped for Batman: Arkham Knight Just Cause Arkham Knight.  Exactly what I was thinking.  Arkham city with guns instead of fighting.  Plz stop, my dick can only get so erect.  DUDE IM FUCKING CRYING, IT'S SO BEAUTIFUL.  Are they not including multiplayer again?  No multiplayer in Just Cause 3.

[Here's an article on it](http://www.franchiseherald.com/articles/27527/20150518/just-cause-3-release-date.htm). The **TL;DR** is that the modded Just Cause 2 multiplayer is chaotic and fun, but a buggy mess and they can't possibly include that and expect people to pay for it. I can respect that  Motherfucking batman with motherfucking guns. Take all my money! Just put him in a superhero costume already.

He's basically Batman if Batman put away his morals and finally put his money to good use and bought an arsenal. I get the feeling this game series is to Far Cry as Saints Row is to GTA.  How to Train Your Dragon style GTA V mod, go.  Looks rad.  Beating Batman at his own game! Now that, is like something out of a dream. [Eagle!!](http://stream1.gifsoup.com/view2/2379528/scrubs-eagle-o.gif) Reminds me of Batman Arkham Series. Goodbye physics. and hello funsics!  Tenchu will always have the best grappling system of any game.  Omg. Does anyone else remember the grapple hook in the JA Plus mod for Star Wars Jedi Academy? 

I miss games like that. I missed the Bat signal So uh...what's the point of having a batman game now? That feels like a scene from my lucid dreams. My body is so ready for this.  It looks absolutely perfect.

I loved Just Cause 2.  Played through the campaign (which I enjoyed) multiple times, got every steam achievement, put over 100 hours into the game, and bought all DLC to support the devs.

I'd preorder, but I'm holding out for the collector's edition.  Hoping they announce the items you get with it. That's some batman shit If Batman were real, he'd sue  I've never played these games, but from what I can tell on the internet, it seems to be a "What crazy shit can I do with a grapple hook" simulator.  

Hence the title:  Why the fuck did you do that?  "Just 'cause"  Not sure why they leave out the apostrophe.   Just Cause's story is all about liberating countries from shitty dictators. As in doing things for a just cause. The jokes likening the title to just because were not initially intended. &gt; What crazy shit can I do with a grapple hook, explosives, and the ability to hijack airplanes in midairFTFY Q: "So what made you want to make a third installment?"

A: "Just 'Cause" 8 P 

(I'll see myself out... Game looks great!) EA's CEO looks like a super villain, holy shit. No, Mr. Bond, I expect you to *buy*...^some^overpriced^DLC Have you seen the DLC prices for Dead or Alive 5? HOLY SHIT. http://i.imgur.com/WWpc2Ho.png They know porn is free now, right?
 I don't know what you're talking about, i used to play DoA for the *plot*... Of course /r/PlayItForThePlot [deleted] Is she tiny or are his hands huge yes uhhhh NSFW No! Plot. great big tracts of plot &gt; there's a sub for everything!

No, there's no sub about hate directed towards obese people. Who the fuck plays DoA? Idk man did you see the gameplay? The plot? Looks good to me. The plot you say?  r/watchitfortheplot (nsfw) more like /r/PlayItForThePlot in this case I can't properly convey to you just how glad I am that's a real thing. It was among my more regularly played games back on the Original Xbox. Always thought it was a very fun series. I do :( How's your weiner going? The fighting mechanics are solid. I felt 5 was a downgrade because of that slow motion crap, but overall, the game has a VERY solid rock-paper-scissors style of play. Not to mention that cornering an enemy actually means something. It's not Tekken Tags level of greatness, but get some competitive and knowledgeable people playing and you're in for a shit ton of fights with last move upsets. People who like fighting games with insane amounts of mechanics  "This is a Madcatz controller, Mr Bond. You must only use this device if your friends are too stoned to care". He actually looks *more* evil than the character. "I am going to take ALL your money..."

Say it with a thick British accident, calm and stoic, and it sounds like a real villain Any British accent? Even Glaswegian? gis al ya doh ji fookin cunt!  nah everyone knows Scottish people can only be good guys even when they are bad guys No no, a thick British _accident_. Must be talking about the chavs in A&amp;E having their stomachs pumped after a neet aht. Oim gawing to toik awl yo monay Loadsamoney [deleted] Yar eh weezerd, 'Arry. Yu fookin cunt!   u avin a laff m8? AHAHAHA 'E WEN AN' DONE A STEALY WHEELY AUTOMOBILEY. He's Australian actually. "Come on George, we've got to tone it down. He looks like a caricature."

"Tom, that's the photo." Yeah the other dude looks like he might actually have redeeming qualities.  EA dude you can tell is just pure evil from the get go. it looks like the one on the right could be a hero but the one on the left looks straight up bad http://i.imgur.com/8iJQpZV.jpg http://i.imgur.com/Kumnm.jpg That lazy fucker would be eating pure gravy with a pack of cigarettes by his side. Cigarettes are quite low-calorie, so it sounds like a balanced diet. I don't know why, but your comment caused be to go back to the picture and laugh hysterically. Thank you. [You haven't even see my final form](http://i.ytimg.com/vi/nPoqU_FqKrs/maxresdefault.jpg) Is that from Luck of the Irish or whatever it was called? 