Hi Michael! In what phase are your plans for the new Star Trek series? And what ideas you have in mind for it?
 The script is done. We've talked to CBS / Paramount, and they haven't said no. So that's a victory in itself. 

I think it would spoil it to share now. But don't worry, they will be out very soon. That's great news! Who has written the script? Ronald D. Moore for the first few episodes, he's amazing at starting off a show.

Be sure to fire him after about 2 seasons though, and replace him with Vince Gilligan.

Edit: Gold? I don't mind it. Thats some specific yet solid advice. Are you from the future? Nah, he is probably from the past. He stole someone from the 26th centuries time machine so he could come to our time, take our gadgets and shit, then go back to his time and "invent" them! 1. How is the Worf TV show progressing? 

2. When would it take place in Worf's timeline and would any other Trek veterans return?

I hope the TV show works out! I loved Worf on TNG (and I'm watching DS9 now) so I'd love to see a show focusing on him. I'd like for there to be some classic Trek in 2016 personally, not just a reboot movie.
 1.) Slowly but surely.

2.) In the timeline, it would be after Deep Space Nine. We don't want to put a particular date or time on it, but it would take place after Deep Space Nine. And there's always going to be room for the Star Trek veterans to make an appearance. Plus if I don't bring them into the show, they will kill me. 

 &gt; they will kill me

That day will be good day to die *attempt A year or two ago in Portland, I went to see Brent Spiner play the violin and sing, and you stood up in the audience and demanded a Picard impression. Do you just follow him around everywhere demanding he do Picard impressions? I just went down a youtube rabbit hole, apparently they do this to each other back and forth all the time.  can you provide a link to get started on the rabbit hole? I can't find anything :( I started with ["brent spiner picard impression"](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eQcammV9G1Y), which lead to [Spiner heckling Stewart](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EvJ7xR4D1ZI), and [Stewart heckling Spiner,](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=F8ZLwjDQ0Fw), then to bring it back here's [Frakes heckling Dorn and Spiner](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PjUXY8PWO9c)
 Thank you for these. This made my night. No idea how much fun these guys are.  Hah! The 3rd video is mine! I recorded it back at Star Trek Con 2010 using the OG iPhone! I had no idea it has had so many views, so I'm glad people are enjoying it and embarrassed because of potato quality :D Damn that Frakes! 

He' so witty and good lucking... I was there! Right above him. That was a wonderful show. Hello, Mr. Dorn. Can you tell us what steps need to be done to get the Star Trek back
on our TVs? Yes.

CBS / Paramount needs to know they can make a pile of money with the series.

And that is part of the reason for the mini-muffins, and the online and social media platforms that are abuzz with the show, is to let them see there is a groundswell of activity, specifically designed to bring Worf back to television. 

So please get involved with our campaign. Every little bit helps. The hashtag is #wewantworf Klingon inspired mini muffins. Trying to wrap my head around that. Do they have nails in them?  Yes, they do.

Rusty nails. And prune juice. ah, a warrior's drink [After eating the muffins..](http://i.imgur.com/Qg0x2V3.gif) i cant help but to read everything in Worf's voice Thank you for improving this thread 500% Do the Muffins have Gagh in them? the Gagh has to be sprinkled on top. it's not fresh if it's been baked!  Part of making a pile of money is putting out a quality product.

Depending on whom you ask, the quality of ST spin-offs has been uneven since TNG/DS9. With so many groundbreaking, must-see shows on broadcast and cable in the past decade, how do we ensure this Worf series will receive the treatment it deserves? One of the reasons that I wanted to come back and do this was to have a fair amount of control. 

And being a fan of the original, being a fan of Gene Roddenberry, being a fan of science fiction, I have a grasp on what fans want to see, what the public wants to see, and *also* I wanted to go back to what made the show what it is - not just our show, but the show in general. And that is the stories. Going back to really great stories about the human condition, about what's going on in our lives right now that everybody can identify with, and bringing it back to more stories, great special effects, and (especially with Worf) action. I really can't wait to watch a new Star Trek series. It needs to happen! #wewantworf Make it so! This should have been the hash tag. come on worf, what were you thinking?? He was thinking he was Worf, not Picard. Probably. Although I can't presume to get inside his bony, weirdly-ridged skull. Picard can just pick up where  he left off. He didnt age a day! They'll probably make him an admiral or something, for special guest appearances. I agree, but I believe Worfs story has been told well enough. The character has had two shows and most of the themes and perils of the character have been given enough time to come to satisfying conclusions. Also, I wouldn't expect 'the general public' to see the character Worf as a selling point. I doubt that that show would have been green-lit, even during the TNG/DS9 era.

Why not do something new?

Anyways, any Star Trek would be most welcome, but I just don't see Worf, as a character, to be that deep and compelling to revolve a whole show around, seeing how much time he's been given. Maybe not as laser-focused as the whole "Emmisary" shtick was for Sisko, but if it were to "revolve around" Worf in the way that TNG "revolved around" Picard, I could see that working pretty well. We've seen a lot of his character through multiple shows, and one of the last major arcs left for Worf as a character would be seeing how he deals with a true leadership position, such as Captain. At the same time you could have a lot of different crew members and situations to follow as well, as with any good Star Trek show. Definitely hope this goes through, if only to see how Dorn chooses to make it happen. Enough with the Federation.  That angle is played out.

Lets see a Klingon soap opera.  Lets see the most interesting non human race do what they do best, have ego's, faults and tear shit up. Okay. Well that was easy I don't remember seeing AMAs with actors answering questions that far down the comment trees. Good on ya Mr. Dorn. It was a good one, methinks. I got an 'okay' from Michael Dorn.  I've peaked in life.   Or just a Klingon opera? A Worf series could have an episode where he goes to the opera he's always listening to. Why not? &gt; Or just a Klingon opera? A Worf series could have an episode where he goes to the opera he's always listening to. Why not?

Where the "women roar, and they... *hurl heavy objects...* and claw at you."

"What does the man do?"

"He reads love poetry. He ducks a lot." I don't entirely agree with this. To me, Star Trek has always been about optimistically fantasizing about where Humanity could be and what it could be capable of in an ideal future. The entire point was to watch something that said "we can and will get better" when there was a lot of cynicism about the Human race with all the doomsday movies/t.v arcs about us blowing ourselves up. To focus entirely on the Klingons would be to abandon, or at least, lose focus of the message of hope for Humanity. 

Also, from a purely pragmatic perspective, Humans tend to need Human characters in their stories so they can relate more easily to what's going on and form an emotional connection or philosophical interest in the story. A series without recurring Human characters with Human problems to overcome will probably fail to land with a large part of the show's audience. I'm sure there are a few niche movies, t.v shows or video games that focus more frequently on other species and races, but all the major licenses I can think of are very Human centric. 

However, the Federation angle is a touch worn out as you said. Perhaps a Klingon soap opera that focuses heavily on Klingons as well as looking closer into the goings on of other races, who only usually got a few episodes a season and were constantly shrouded in mystery to make them appear more threatening to the Federation, would be an interesting direction for Star Trek to take. But, to counteract the lack of Human connection that could cause, Klingon-Human relations could be seen to have progressed some more, so that more Humans could be involved in Klingon proceedings and customs and it wouldn't be so strange for Worf to have a contingent of Human friends permanently lodged in a Klingon environment. 

Oops, sorry this reply got so long, but hopefully it makes sense.  Mr. Dorn, my father and I have been huge trek fans for as long as I can remember, sadly my dad passed away back in 2010 but I want you to know that Worf was his favorite character and when you went on your kamikaze attack against the Borg in "First Contact" id never seen him smiling broader. Worf is a truly honorable warrior and deserves his own series. Thank you for what you do.  Great stories will do it! As someone who has watched the full 7 seasons of TNG at least 10 times - the stories and lessons remain as relevant today if not more so than when they were made. 


I would love more and TBH the subsequent series with you guest starring were always my favorite. They had the immediate comfortable feel that there was going to be something important happening. 


This came out of nowhere  --  Thank you!! I always loved your character on TNG but finally watching Deep Space Nine all the way through on Netflix brought the character to a new level in my mind.  Gotta say you seemed to be one of the most committed actors on the shows and it reflected in the character.

I'm excited as hell for a new series.  There has been a StarTrek series going on on TV for most of my life but when Enterprise ended the hole was never filled.  Newer generations of fans need a StarTrek to call their own, and hopefully learn to be better people from it like we did.

I'll be helping out for sure. Hi Michael! Among your other work, I loved your guest appearances on Regular Show. What was your experience like working on that? **Very strange.**

I didn't understand what I was doing, *while* I was doing it? And when I saw the show.  I feel the same way about my job. And after you saw the show it made even less sense How long did it take to put the face of Worf on? Did you have to put it every day on anew or did you sometimes sleep with it on? Oh no, it was *every day* a new face.

And just so you know - we added up that I did a *thousand* makeups. 

Mm-hmm!

It took three hours.  3000 hours of steady sitting? You must be either a very patient man or have a very amusing masker. A warrior does not complain of discomfort. If only he had a smartphone. Or a android! With a Data plan. My Dad loves to tell a story about a journalist asking you how you maintained the anger of Worf's character and you replied that after 3 hours in the makeup chair, you **were** angry. 

Is this story true? That's over four months of sitting for makeup over your Star Trek career! Hi Michael. I'm a big fan of Star Trek and the Worf character. I have a few questions I'm hoping you'll answer:

Can you tell us your favorite episode in TNG? 

Who was the actor/actress you performed best with on TNG or DS9?

Is there any future for Worf's character? We'd love a new series.

Can you describe what would be the best day in Worf's life? I have two favorite ones. One is "The Drumhead," and the other is "The Offspring." 

Well, on TNG, it was Marina Sirtis, who played Counsellor Troi, and on Deep Space Nine, it was Terry Farrell.

I'd say yes, there is. If there's going to be any new Star Trek on television, I think that Worf has the best chance.

The best day in Worf's life?

When he got married to Jadzia.  My favorite scenes of Worf are in Phantasms: [Being asked to care for Spot](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=46fKmI9sVaE), Qpid: [Smashing the lute](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YKiAhTbpL4Y), and Violations: [The Smackdown](http://www.dailymotion.com/video/x2d178f_star-trek-the-next-generation-season-5-episode-12-violations_tv) @ 40:40.

~~What was your favorite Worf scene?~~ Already answered. What, Worf saying "I AM NOT A MERRY MAN" isn't your favorite Worf moment from that episode? It sure as hell was mine. that one's great, but my favorite is from S02E20 The Emissary.

K'Ehleyr: "You are not even looking at me."
Worf: "I am familiar with your appearance." I forget which episode, but my favourite Worf line was:
"Good tea...nice house" yeah, the one where there was only 1 house on the entire planet and the old guy lived there with his wife and he had killed a whole species by "thinking" them out of existence  Mine will always be

Q: What must I do to convince you people?! (in regards to him losing his powers)

Worf: Die. Good tea. Nice house. What was your reaction to Terry Farrell leaving DS9?  Were you personally angry at her or did you understand her desire to quit the show?  How did you feel about Jadzia being replaced by Ezri?

I recently watched the last episode of DS9, and the final flashbacks were eerie because they showed Worf with Ezri but not Worf with Jadzia.  &gt; Flashback scenes of Jadzia Dax are conspicuously absent from the end of the episode because the producers were not able to obtain permission from Terry Farrell to use her image.  Originally, however, the script had called for clips of Jadzia to be included in the scene. As Ira Steven Behr explains, "We had planned to see Terry Farrell in the flashbacks but she refused to let us use any of her clips. The way I see it is this: Her manager was informed that we were thinking of using Terry in a scene in the final episode. It would have probably been three hours of work... maybe four. The price they quoted us was too high for the budget. After all, this was a show where we had to cut out hundreds of thousands of dollars from the original draft. Her manager was informed that we weren't going to be able to use Terry. And on top of it, the scene we had been thinking of for her was really not that germane to the plot. I think Terry's feelings were hurt. When it came to the issue of the clips, they again felt that they would prefer that we went a different way without using the character of Jadzia Dax. So we did. I wasn't happy about it. I'm still not happy about it. But it is a reminder that even Star Trek is just part of the great showbiz sludge." As a result, this is the only season finale not to feature Jadzia.

TLDR; Terry didn't want them to use her character in any capacity without her involvement. The Executives didn't to want meet her financial requirements. So they opt for the Ezri flashbacks instead.  That's an interview from 1999, and I think that Terry and Ira finally spoke in person about this maybe a decade after wrapping the show, and discovered that there were a lot of misunderstandings, between the producers and her people talking, instead of Terry and Ira talking. Ira found out what Terry's requests (about Season 7) had been, and that he totally could have accommodated them, while Terry was told by TPTB that her demands could not be met. So yeah, there were some hurt feelings on both sides. This isn't about the Season 7 series finale that you're talking about, but they would've likely been the same players, so I would take a 1999 interview with a grain of salt.  Terry's agent really fucked things up.  It's a shitty story.  I've heard of too many stories where agents have screwed up things that the actors themselves would have had no issues accommodating.  My favourite story about actors getting screwed by their agents is George Lazenby's agent who told him not to sign on for more than one Bond film because spy movies were on the way out, and he would end up over committed and underpaid for his work. So Lazenby only did On Her Majesty's Secret Service, and then didn't do any more. Diamonds Are Forever and Live and Let Die nicely proved that Lazenby's agent was wrong, and the story goes that that particular agent never worked as an agent again.

Now, admittedly, Lazenby was pretty poor because he tried and failed to copy Connery, but still, he effectively got screwed over by his agent's advice. /u/Chooter, her name is spelled "Troi". Counselor Deanna Troi.    
edit: Thanks! :) 

(And The Offspring is my favorite too!) Thanks for catching, I fixed it!

Also, thanks to /u/Rarek for helping connect the dots to make this AMA possible. Hello Mr. Dorn. I've been a fan for years. My wife and I loved your performance in DS9. You were one of the most interesting and compelling characters. We always loved your episodes. 

If you had to fight the Dominion today, and you got to assemble the dream team to take them on from all Star Trek history, who would be on your team?

Also, what is your opinion about what Klingons represented on Star Trek? Oh gosh. Probably Captain Picard... Data...Odo...and Major Kira...and I think that's enough.

Well, in the original episode, the Klingons were the Russians. That's what they represented. And as we discovered over the years, the enemy is *really* within. It's not the Russians. The enemy was really within us, ourselves, and that's what Gene wanted to say when he had a Klingon on the bridge of the Enterprise. What, no O'Brien in there?  :'( Give the man a break. He's been through enough. Seriously all of the worst things happened to just him. I have no idea how he didn't snap and kill everybody.  This.
And Garak should be there too. When Picard's diplomacy fails, Elim tries a different approach. Give me a show of Garak pre-DS9. Or just anything with Garak. He is the best.  Or a sitcom of Garak and Bashir. Garak and Bashir as partners, agents of a resurrected, less scary Section 31. &gt; resurrected

Ha! You really think Section 31 is gone?  Damn they're good. Oh God, a spinoff following Garak's exploits in the Obsidian order?  A literal fucking spy show in the Star Trek universe?  That is fucking gold. How does it feel *never* being allowed to fire the photon torpedoes?

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=edflm7Hh3hs Oh man I wish Michael would respond to this classic video.  He tried to submit a reply but was denied Funny part was he was completely correct in some of those situations.. I made this video. I edited the description to include #WeWantWorf
I don't want Worf to be denied this show!!! It's incredible to see the burden shouldered by Worf for being right so often [Sisko already did](https://youtu.be/XGcAbI-4_io) Three Questions.

1: What was working on The Next Generation like compared to Deep Space Nine?

2: Do you like Deep Space Nine or The Next Generation more?

3: What are your thoughts on the Star Trek fanbase in general?

Thanks for doing the AMA, trekkies like me appreciate it a lot! 1.) Next Generation was like going to high school every day. There was a lot of good work, but we had a HUGE amount of fun. Deep Space was a quiet, serious set to work on. Until I got there.

2.) That's not a good question? It's a good question, but I don't think of it as liking one more than the other. They're two different shows. And Next Generation was the first show, the first spin-off. We were sort of the trailblazers, so we were a tight group because we had to be. Deep Space Nine was a different group altogether. But I enjoyed it because the character was explored even more than on Next Generation.

3.) I've always loved them. I've thought of them as loyal, and they're loyal to this day. 2012 was our 25th anniversary from when we started The Next Generation, and it was like it's never been gone. The crowds were huge. And even up until last year, when we were doing the reunion shows, the crowds were humongous. So I think they're probably the loyalest fans ever.  &gt; Deep Space was a quiet, serious set to work on. Until I got there.

So you ARE a merry man.. [Not so merry...](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YKiAhTbpL4Y) I recently watched the series again (thanks Netflix) and that was a great episode.  AFAIK the only time was holideck with robin hood, or maybe it was Q. I LOVED the 2012 convention. Although I think my favorite moments during the whole thing were when I would stand on the sidelines of the casino floor and watching the confused non-convention folks' reaction as the flood of Klingons, Borg, Redshirts, etc. departed from the convention area and headed for their rooms.  Hi Michael!
What was your reaction to the episode of South Park with you in it? I absolutely loved it.

I'm a big fan of South Park, and I was *totally* blind-sided when I was watching the episode - which was a funny episode - but what *really* blew me away was that my character in the show was wearing a shirt that said "Pasadena City College." 

And that's where I went to junior college.  It was great. Captain, this whole thing is ridiculous. 
Edit: Here is the scene http://southpark.cc.com/clips/153383/wharf What was your favourite Star Trek episode/movie that you worked on? There were two favorites, absolute favorites - the movies was "First Contact," that was my favorite Star Trek movie that I worked on. On the TV show, there were 2 episodes of Deep Space Nine that were my favorites - one was "Once More Into the Breach," and "Soldiers of the Empire." The movie I thought was the best Star Trek movie that was made. And I *love* Star Trek. I'm definitely a big fan of all the movies, but that was my favorite. And "Once More Into The Breach" was a wonderful episode about a Klingon Warrior, and a wonderful actor that I know, John Colicos, he's not with us anymore, but he was *wonderful* in that show. And it was an honor, a great episode, and I absolutely loved it. But those episodes from Deep Space *really* showed the Klingons to their *fullest.*  I know some people dislike how the movies were more campy and action packed and less philosophically deep than the show, but IMO "Assimilate this!" Is the greatest moment in the saga. You rock, Mr. Dorn! First Contact struck a wonderful balance. It had depth, literary inspiration, and it was also a fun romp. Yes it's not perfect, but considering how little money it was made for I think it's stellar. Right up there with you, sir - First Contact is my favorite ST film! is there a viable path for Netflix to pick up rights to do a Star Trek series? How was your cooperation with Seth MacFarlane?
 Wonderful. Seth is a big fan of the show, and he's a good guy. I loved you in Ted 2! It's a good movie but even more so worth it to see you and Patrick Warburton harass nerds at Comicon :-) Hi Michael!! SO EXCITED. 


You've been doing conventions for so many years now. I love watching you, you always seem so serene and calm in the midst of the craziness that is Marina and Patrick and Brent and co. (Is that an act or a coping mechanism?) 

Is there any story that you still love to tell, every time you're asked, every chance you get? If so, which one? 

(If not, what often asked question would you like to replace and what would you like to be asked instead?) No, that is not a coping mechanism or an act, that is really who I am.

I've been (not to get *too* woo-woo-woo about it) but I've been on a spiritual journey for many, many years. And it's helped with acting, with life, with everything. And so it's not an act. 

Oh gosh. There's so many. Just say that there are so many stories. I can't think of one in particular! 

As far as questions, they always want me to say this one line that Worf always says, which is "**I'm not a merry man."**

And I'd like to replace that with "How was your day?" How *was* your day? "I'm not a merry man" was a perfect comedic delivery. Hai there! 

Do you ever look at/post in the Star Trek subreddit? This is my first time on reddit.  You should stop by /r/startrek, it's a friendly place. /r/DaystromInstitute is friendlier. One of the best subreddits ever. I hope it never changes. As much as it frustrates my humor sometimes, I must say that I fucking love that subreddit.  I don't think he has, or at least what I've seen. I know that William Shatner, Will Wheaton, and Patrick Stewart have stopped by.

EDIT: Just Wheaton and Shatner. If Patrick Stewart was on Reddit that might break the internet Imagine if Patrick Stewart and Ian McKellen did a joint AMA

u/chooter please make this happen I'm working on it. I might have some very exciting news soon. Were I unwed I would take you in a manly fashion. I am wed, so it is not to be. But your sense of appreciation is duly noted &amp; reciprocated. &gt; I might have some very exciting news soon.

...you're pregnant? _

It's AMA-related. I am pregnant AMA. **_** Keep being amazing, Victoria! Thanks for all your hard work *salutes* &gt; Patrick Stewart have stopped by

That's news to me, and I've been a moderator there for 3 years. Are you sure? http://i.imgur.com/W2WccZ7.jpg
I looked at it while I was browsing through the top section of Star Trek, saw Patrick Stewart in it, though he posted there. Now that I look at it again, it's not him posting. Sorry, guess I looked too quickly. Thanks for taking the time to do this AMA! 

1.) DS9 did some fabulous "one-off" episodes in the later seasons, my favorite of which was Far Beyond the Stars. What was your feeling (or the cast and crew's in general) about going in to film that day, with the makeup and setting being so different from the usual? 

2.) Why's everyone so down on Klingon opera?!  1.) It was very interesting for me, just because - it was a wonderful episode - but for *me,* it was seeing the actors out of makeup. Because you forget how *really* wonderful they are as actors, outside of Star Trek. Seven years on a  show behind makeup, you begin to see them do one thing. *BUT* every actor on the show, I was re-blown away again by how good they were. 

2.) Because they don't understand it.  
Everyone talks about how musical [everyone on TNG](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M7ub-CUOlbY) was. It looks like Frakes would always [sing "Volare"](http://www.treknews.net/2012/05/07/new-jersey-philly-star-trek-convention-report-2012-patrick-stewart-jonathan-frakes/). 
Did anyone else have theme songs or songs they typically sang? What were they for the different cast members, or (if none) what *should* they be? Oh gosh. What can you say to a question like that?

Jonathan was the only one that had a repertoire of songs. The rest of us were not quite as enthusiastic about our singing ability as he was. 

If it was Marina, I'd say "The Bitch Is Back." Patrick, I think, would be "I've gotta be King." That's not really a song, but...that's it. That's all I can come up with. From watching various episodes of various Star Trek series, it is clear many actors playing Klingons had no idea how to properly speak tlhIngan Hol (Klingon).  Were you or any of the main cast given lessons by Okrand or others on how to speak the language, or was it entirely self-taught? It was *entirely* self-taught. And we had one rule, when it came to alien languages, which is: *Whoever said it first, that's how you say it for the rest of the episode.* This is something Stargate never got right but Star Trek did quite well I'm pretty sure in Stargate they had about a hundred different ways of saying Goa'uld. My favorite was Hammond: "Goold" That was fair though. Hammond was a no shit taken attitude from the south. He did as he pleased. Hammond of Texas... I miss him. Indeed. I liked it. It's kind of what we do in real life. People pronounce things differently, especially when they're only read for a long period of time. Hi Michael!  

What were the differences in group dynamics between casts on TNG and DS9?  I thought i read somewhere that there was a lot more goofing around on TNG.

What do you like/dislike about the reboot films? Since we were all together, and we started together, and there was nothing else on television like it, we were all basically very close, and for some reason, the cast is STILL very close. Deep Space Nine was a group of very talented actors whom I get along with extremely well, but they weren't - for some reason, their chemistry was on-camera, not off-camera, which is normal, I mean, that is the normal thing. Our show was the exception to the rule - usually you come in, do your work, and go home. But we enjoyed each other very much, so we spent more time with each other than with our respective family members. Except for Siddig and Visitor... You've said you think you've spent over 3000 hours in make up. What was your thought process while you sat there? I was the smartest person for those 11 years in Los Angeles, because while they did the makeup, I read the LA TIMES from cover-to-cover, and did the crossword puzzle. Imagining you slowly becoming more and more Klingon and possibly frustrated with the puzzle is cracking me up right now. Thank you for doing this AMA!! 

P.S. Can I get an autograph? Dear Mr. Dorn,

I have 3 questions (one from me and two from my Dad).

My question is this:  You participated in the production of two audiotapes: [Conversational Klingon](http://en.memory-alpha.wikia.com/wiki/Conversational_Klingon) and [Power Klingon,](http://en.memory-alpha.wikia.com/wiki/Power_Klingon) but you were given almost no dialogue in Klingon (most of it being supplied by Marc Okrand). How did you feel about this?

My Dad's questions:

1. Which is your favorite episode of Star Trek: The Next Generation, and why? And

2. You're a pilot, but while acting on The Next Generation, you weren't allowed to fly--how did you feel about having to (temporarily) give that up?

Qapla'! I feel fine.

*chuckles*

It was - we were doing the show at the time, and to actually *learn* all of that Klingon was *very* time consuming. But I thought that what they did with it was actually very funny.

1.) Well, the one I love the best is "The Drumhead" which, once again, is a story-driven episode where we are on a witchhunt, and it turns from just a "trying to find out who sabotaged the warp drive" into dragging an officer's name through the mud unnecessarily. And it was *wonderful* performances. Jean Simmons, the wonderful actress, was in it, and it was powerful.

And it had one of the *best-shot* endings of any show.

2.) I *hated* it. I was gonna quit the show. (Not really). And down the hall, to the left! Hi Michael! I've got three questions for you:

1) What is the best part about being an actor?
2) How much of you and your personality went into playing Worf?
3) What's the favorite thing you've been part of as a professional and why was it DS9? 1.) The art of it. I consider acting an art. And the creating of characters is exciting. Also, going to work and having something different to do every day is the best part.

2.) Very little. I do share his honor, and loyalty. But I'm not exactly gruff and surly.

3.) Um, I think it had to be Deep Space Nine. Eat any good books lately?  Q, "Q the desperate. What must I do to convince you people?"

Worf, 'Die!"

Was that written in the script or did you improvise that? [video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=x012BnKWi3g) Very clever, Worf... Eat any good books lately? Which Star Trek cast member were you closest to? Marina.  Anyone who needs a longer explanation can watch them [fight like beloved siblings](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=uaE6JTgHdBg) in appearances together. Good choice.  Hi Michael,

My good friend John insists you came to his house to film a gardening show in Chico, Ca and jumped on a trampoline with him. His mom says this is not true, but he refuses to believe her. Can you set the story straight?  This would have been about 20 years ago. 

 I've never been to Chico, California in my life.  then how were you on that TRAMPOLINE man? Big fan, Michael. You played a role in Adventure Time not that long ago, a show which has been host to a few different Star Trek alumni. Can you tell us how you got involved in the show? Did Jonathan Frakes, Marina Sirtis, and LeVar Burton take parts on the show because they were following your lead? Nope! I'm sorry, but it's not very interesting. They called my agent, they said "would you be interested," I said "yes," they hired me, and I went there, did the job, and came home.  Do you like Game of Thrones? Did you like performance of Alexander Siddig in the last season? I didn't watch Game of Thrones. I'm a little prudish, because when it first came on, it seemed like it's soft porn. But Alexander is a wonderful actor, and a good guy. But I have not watched Game of Thrones.  Alexander plays the Prince of Dorn(e)! He's basically your prince, you should watch it :D In fact, the porn is about the only thing that's soft about it. Holy shit, I just realized Doran Martell is Dr. Bashir. Truthfully I can't unsee it.  It's like I'm watching Bashir spend some quality holodeck time in Westeros. Which Star Trek series did you enjoy more to work on?

Did any work on Star Trek help in Mass Effect?

Would a Krogan or a Klingon win in a fight? I loved them both, but each was different. I loved The Next Generation, because they were my friends and we were close, but I loved Deep Space because it was really good work. And Worf became a major character in that show.

No, video games - the voiceover work is *totally* different. It's just acting. There wasn't anything specific to that that made it easier or harder. Just acting.

Klingon would win. &gt;No, video games - the voiceover work is *totally* different. It's just acting. There wasn't anything specific to that that made it easier or harder. Just acting.

For what it's worth, I thought you did great in STO, and especially so as Tassadar in StarCraft 2.   You had one very brief (and wonderful) cameo voice-over in *Family Guy* which consisted of one line: "You can both suck my ridges!"

What is the process like for a job like this? Do you need to go into a sound studio just for that line? What about the episode where Stewie builds a transporter and kidnaps the TNG cast?  I'm pretty sure he was there too. In [Ethics](http://en.memory-alpha.wikia.com/wiki/Ethics_%28episode%29) Worf asks Riker to help him commit suicide.

How did you feel about this (euthanasia) going into the episode and were your views changed in any way? Hi! Long time Trekker here.  

Do you have any good stories of people coming up to you and describing Worf as an inspiration to them?  Oh yes. One guy in Las Vegas, who was dressed in full Klingon makeup and costume, said that I saved his life.

And I said "Why? Why do you say that?"

And he said that he'd gotten to a point in his life where he was doing so many drugs that he had lost his job, he'd lost his family, his home, everything. And at his lowest point he started watching the show, and he took from the character this sense of honor, of loyalty, of stick-to-it-iveness, and somehow he said after he watched the show, and he identified with Worf, that he got his life together. He's got a great job, he's got a great family, and he's back.

And that was *incredibly* moving. And I'm very happy for that.

I tried to tell him "Look, I appreciate that this character had something to do with it, but you have to realize that came ALL from you. Never forget that." It was a great moment. A great moment.  Do you think that being raised by humans may have ironically caused Worf to become an ideal Klingon? That by being raised on romanticized tales of Klingon honor, Human compassion, and away from the dirty underbelly of Klingon culture allowed him to uphold Klingon ideals with sacrificing his integrity or compromise for the sake of personal ambition?
 I think that's pretty much an accepted part of his character. Did they polish Patrick Stewart's head between takes? That's not nice. He didn't say no Shut up. Wesley! Hardly! It's only natural to assume regular effort went into the care and presentation of such a magnificent dome. Asking the important questions. Michael Dorn, thanks for the AMA. A few quick questions:
A) Are you aware of [The Worf Effect](http://tvtropes.org/pmwiki/pmwiki.php/Main/TheWorfEffect), and who would it apply to on the new show if not Captain Worf?
B) How was your experience as a voice actor, particularly on [Gargoyles](http://www.imdb.com/title/tt0108783/?ref_=fn_al_tt_1), and could you imagine an animated version of Captain Worf?
C) Finally, there was an interview with LeVar Burton where he said you had made the most of your TNG money, any tips for budding entrepreneurs? What did you have for breakfast? What did I have for breakfast?

I'm a vegan, so I had fake coffee and toast.  TIL that Worf is a Vegan.  Coffee's not vegan? Klingon coffee is made out of the boiled intestines of your killed enemies' children. I *think* raktajino is just made from normal coffee beans that were imported into the Empire at some point.  It was your time to shine and you delivered. Never been prouder to be a vegan!  Do you have that new vegan gagh in the stores where you live? Would you be interested in bringing Worf back if it were as part of an animated series or web series? No. Only live-action.  Did you ever realise that if you kissed Hitler, your moustaches wouldn't touch?  Only if they didn't tilt their heads. Only if they had no passion in their kiss! Kissing Charlie Chaplin would be more fun. Hi, Michael! Thanks for doing the AMA!

With so many seasons and episodes between TNG and DS9, Worf is certainly one of the - if not the most - established and explored trek characters. Ive always enjoyed his expanding depth and charter quirks that you and the writers brought to him over so much screen time. Thanks for bringing the son of Mogh to life.  

What do you think youd absolutely need for a Captain Worf show to make sense/be appealing to you as an actor, or to continue to make Worf interesting as a character?

Thanks!

EDIT to get to the point quicker. Well, go to [this link](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qsXsMCmlCwk&amp;feature=youtu.be&amp;list=PL2RINV0RduRxiMXSju2Z-8uQPCemfCnbY) and your questions will be answered.  What would be your go-to programs for the holodeck? It would have to be Top Gun.  Oh my god you spoke to me I love you! Thanks! Mr. Dorn, will we be hearing you in Fallout 4? not unless marcus decides to uproot his community again and resettle in boston for some reason Can you give us the tl;dr version of what they did with the money?

EDIT:  Thanks for the gold, whoever you are. The tl;dr of this story is:

- RCA collects $500m in donations for Haiti;
- Five years on the money is nigh on used up;
- There is huge disconnect between what RCA said they delivered by projects and what is actually done in Haiti, e.g. RCA said they would build 1600 homes vs have built 6.
- The AMA people uncovered the huge gap between claimed projects and projects delivered, and have done a superb job of verifying the absence of RCA investments in Haiti;
- The huge question is "RCA, where the heck did the money go?" Indications are Congress may instigate hearings on this - huge outcome. Too bad military spending doesn't get this level of outrage... But at least people know where some of the money goes to:

* contracts
* training
* supplies
* Intel (some cases)

Not saying that we do know exactly how it's spent in those individual regions - but at least we have a (mostly) working product - hmp [definitely not talking about the F-35s]... I'm not too sure how they do manage to spend so much on an inefficient system - for example, the average $190,000 a person per training - how do you even spend $190,000 on a person? Right. They know where *some* of the money goes. How about the [6.6 billion in cash that went missing in Iraq](http://articles.latimes.com/2011/jun/13/world/la-fg-missing-billions-20110613).? That's just one example. Are you talking about [this?](http://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2014/apr/4/state-dept-misplaced-6b-under-hillary-clinton-ig-r/?page=all)


 I can easily see that it might cost 190k per person if you include facility maintenance cost and everyone's salary into account  Tl;dr: we don't have a full answer. Laura and I repeatedly asked the American Red Cross for a detailed breakdown of spending by specific project/overhead, etc. They wouldn't provide that. They do release a pie chart of spending in their annual report: https://www.documentcloud.org/documents/1568746-haiti-five-year-update.html#document/p1/a210740

But it's broken down only into very broad categories. So if you want to actually figure out what happened to the money, it's not very helpful.

Apart from tracking the money, here's the nut graf of [the story](https://www.propublica.org/article/how-the-red-cross-raised-half-a-billion-dollars-for-haiti-and-built-6-homes):

"The group has publicly celebrated its work. But in fact, the Red Cross has repeatedly failed on the ground in Haiti. Confidential memos, emails from worried top officers, and accounts of a dozen frustrated and disappointed insiders show the charity has broken promises, squandered donations, and made dubious claims of success." This document shows a typical reporting tactic that the vast majority of NGOs use; not just Red Cross.  Admin (or "overhead") expenses are allocated to various functional areas such as Sanitation, Shelter, etc. based on some (hopefully standardized) methodology.  It's used for M&amp;E (Monitoring &amp; Evaluation) purposes which abstracts financial data for use in calculating the social return on programs.  The thing about this data is that there's no standard framework they are required to use to produce these numbers.  They could allocate their admin/overhead down to zero if they wanted to (it looks like that's what was done here).  So... incorrect?  Technically no.  Misleading?  You betcha.  That's good NGO marketing!

They couldn't report this stuff to the IRS, as GAAP accounting principles are required for actual regulatory bodies (duh).  That data exists, of course, but as you've pointed out, they have no legal obligation to comply with requests for such data.

Source: I'm a non-profit consultant accounting, systems, and management consultant.   Hi -- I'd love to chat more about your work, if you have time shoot me an email justin@propublica.org  What kind of organizations do you work with normally, out of curiosity? Do they receive their money from large donors or individuals? I work for a large iNGO that gets a lot of USAID money and that changes how we work a ton. Project Administrators (such as myself) live in anxiety daily that the money we spend can be deemed allowable, allocable, and reasonable to the point where our host countries and local subs go crazy working with us because we know that at the end of a project the A133 audit will pull our pants down AED style if we screw up. And we have internal services that act as a second control in case programs are missing something, and they are huge pains in our asses too (but for the right reasons). As for indirect/overhead expenses, again, this is based on Negotiated Indirect Cost Rates that are submitted to the government for review and approved by them before we can charge that to them. I'm not saying we run a clean ship all the time but it's worth noting for clarification that for all the bad there's also a lot of self regulating that happens as well (for God's sake, I had more concerns when I was working in the private sector) because we have seen how one screw up can tank a whole organization. And I know how reddit likes to raise their pitchforks when news like this comes about. &gt; t as you've pointed out, they have no legal obligation to comply with requests for such data.

So what you are saying is I need to get into a non-profit  :). No. Open a church. It's even easier to make a profit and it's tax free. Actually lots of modern churches offer open books and a full accounting of where their money goes.  People get confused with the mega churches with pastors that drive around luxury cars, but most community church pastors live rather humbly and have to get approval if they want something like a new car.  Like the rest of life, it really isn't like it is on tv. Sounds about right.  FYI, I worked with The American Red Cross for about 5 years, and from my experience, even they probably don't know where the money went. They have an institutional problem with tracking expenses. Whenever they are flush, they spend, and when they are low on funds, the do donation drives.

They most likely can't give you a breakdown because they don't have it themselves... That's worrying for an organization that handles that much money. It definitely dissuades me from giving them any money in the future.  Man wait until you hear about the Pentagon... That donation drive has been going a long time.  Not really donations, though. I'm not exactly *willing* to give them money. Especially, when I see how much of it is spent on bullshit. Hey! We *need* holographic dragon tanks! They really should just put up a kickstarter for wars they want to fund. Oh god, yes, yes we do. 

But is it a holographic-dragon tank or holographic dragon-tank?

(why not both?) To anyone shitting on this guy who works in government, your experience probably differs than the mass overhead misuse/loss/waste of pentagon funds and property. 

http://www.reuters.com/investigates/pentagon/#article/part2

http://www.globalresearch.ca/report-reveals-8-5-trillion-missing-from-pentagon-budget-2/5453618

tl;dr the Pentagon and Military have a history of losing weapons and supplies they spend money on, paying wrong amounts to employees, and simply losing funds. 

Your experiences with other government agencies or with specific funds in the pentagon aren't invalid, but the pentagon is most definitely misusing/losing/wasting money.  Quick personal story on defense/gov spending: 

I sell things to the gov on occasion. Recently got a request for quote on some nylon tubing (typically used for air or fluid lines) from an army base. Guy asked for my price, I asked how many feet he needed. His response "quantity doesn't matter, just make sure it's $10,000 or just under."

My contracted price for that item was $0.49/ft, so I sold him 20,000 feet. I don't care what they were doing with, there is no possible way they had use for 20,000 ft.

Another one where I didn't get the order but saw the bid and the award. 40ea high dollar tools (~approx $5k), bought in 2012. A few months ago saw another bid request come out for the same exact part number, same Air Force base, same contracting officer.  Once again, they definitely didn't need 40 when they bought them the first time, and to replace them in less than 3yrs is rediculous. That's just small time shit but equally as offensive.  I worked for several years with a major defense company (they produce a vehicle called the Stryker and that little thing called a tank, if you want to know for whom I worked). My God, the inefficiency and waste! Due to my experiences I support an immediate, massive reduction in the defense budget. I've never seen anything like that mess. The worst part was that nobody gave a single shit about the waste and inefficiency, and that goes for both sides of the coin, the company and the government. See, the pentagon probably knows exactly where they spend all their money. They just prefer we think they don't. "Oh, man, where did I put that [8 trillion dollars](http://www.reuters.com/investigates/pentagon/#article/part2)? I could have sworn it was in my wallet!" Just a point: the Red Cross in the US is terribly disorganized, but they may be much better if you live in another country. The Canadian Red Cross is very well managed AFAIK and is worth donating to.

From what I have heard and read, if you are looking for a worthy charity to donate to Doctors Without Borders is one of the best, and is more internationally focused and managed. personally, I am wary of giving money to any large organization, be it red cross or wwf or what have you

I just don't trust them to spend the money in such a way, that the great majority of my money goes serve its intended purpose

I don't mind *some* overhead, I can't expect all of those people to do their work for free, but I sure don't see the point of financing the absurd amounts of marketing wwf produces for example But what if every dime invested into marketing then produces a dollar of donations to the charity? I kinda think that from one perspective, it'd be wrong for charities to not do that kinda thing (obviously this doesn't apply to this story, but charities in general). And also sounds like complete bullshit. *Someone* knows where that money went. Maybe I've been watching too much TV, but that money could be siphoned off into personal or business accounts under the radar. The fact that they're not sharing their records of spending after an accusation like this is worrisome. That's troubling if it's true.  I agree that the ARC should be accountable, and should be more transparent than they have been about what they actually did do and didnt do. The linked pie chart is .... quite general. For example, they should be able to say "We (or our partners) did XYZ to this hospital, XYZ in this community, XYZ with these roads, etc". I dont think that necessarily needs to be a line by line breakdown of every single project, and I could anticipate that would be difficult and nebulous by the time you have project partners and sub-contractors etc etc, but I think they could provide more information than they have.

Although I agree the ARC should be more transparent, I think the headline chosen for this AMA and the report does a disservice to the journalists and the credibility of their work. It seems like you've gone with sexy headlines for the sake of media attention, which is practically the same as what you are accusing the ARC of doing. 

The ARC seem to have been reasonably explicit that they didnt use all that money on building permanent homes. Normally, I understand that disaster responses like this would talk about 'shelter' rather than permanent homes. Shelter is a fair broader concept than 'homes' and it better captures what happens after a disaster - straight away, the NGO is trying to get people under cover so they're not out in the heat or rain (tarpaulins and emergency shelters), then looking at intermediate steps that might be rebuilding and repairs, rental subsidies etc, and then finally looking for longer term housing options. Maybe some ARC marketing person thought it would be better to talk about housing rather than shelter, which created some of this ambiguity. 

Having said that - I'm sure you as the authors know all this, and you know the ARC says that they spent some of the money on hospitals, roads, the cholera response, shelter etc etc. So, it seems to me to be a bit of a strawman argument to focus only on the lack of permanent housing.

On the issue of permanent housing, ARC wrote that they built some houses as a pilot, but that there were lots of challenges with permanent housing - including corruption, land title, government land policy etc. They decided not to go ahead with that part of their work. So.... basically, an NGO does a pilot exercise, decides that it doesnt work, decide to change their programming strategy to something else ... and then gets criticised for it? They should have been criticised much more if they stuck with a strategy that they (and all the other donors trying to build houses) could see wasnt going to work. 

TL;DR - ARC should be more transparent and accountable. But - this fixation on the 6 permanent houses is just a distracting straw man argument, which is disappointing because otherwise the authors make good points. 

  This needs to go straight to the goddamn top. "Well loved charity horribly mismanaged money!" Is such a well-consumed plot on Reddit, the truth is much more nuanced. 

Also regarding pilot projects: businesses can throw tons of cash at R/D and initiatives just to experiment with potential solutions. Something doesn't work out? Hey that's OK because we're trying new solutions, one of these might become a winner. NGO has a failed pilot? Corruption! Reduce overhead now!  
I think there is a lot of tolerance for failure in some sectors - for example, think how many IT startups dont make it. The aid sector is generally a whole lot more risk adverse than the business sector.

The ARC might be horribly mismanaged - certainly their reporting is pretty terrible. But, it's a bit hard to know from this report how much is actual mismanagement and how much is just the realistic cost of delivering aid in a situation like Haiti ...  the ARC should be able to do a better job of explaining it, but the sensationalisation in this report really doesnt help make things as clear as they could have been.

Think about someone working on an oil-rig in the North Sea. They're probably quite well qualified, they're doing a job in demanding circumstances, they get paid pretty well, their company provides them with accommodation and transport and they get leave sometimes to go back home. 

Now think about an aid worker in Sierra Leone working to stop the ebola outbreak. You need someone with some decent skills, you have to accommodate them, transport them around, pay them, send them home sometimes so they dont burn out...  it's smart business when the private sector does it, but when an NGO does it, it's 'overheads' and 'expenses'. Oh, and the oil-rig worker is making a load more money than the ebola nurse too ....   There is also a ton of specialized knowledge and proven better practices at work here that the general public just has no clue about. Even saying shelters were provided immediately brings out "why not real homes", "that isn't sustainable", "a tarp isn't a real solution", "teaching people how to build homes isn't the same"... When really going into a place post-disaster and just building tons of permanent homes isn't the right way to approach this.  

Thing is the ARC is a large, old organization that has been doing this for a long time, and has benefited from amazing public opinion for decades. Do I think they are a nefarious group of old white men cackling as they pocket hundreds of millions of dollars? No, I think they just have never really had to give the sort of transparency that people demand nowadays. 

As for accounting some of this: Man i've built schools in Uganda and water wells in Ghana and even working with "small, grassroots, community based" NGO's just accounting for a simple project like that is a nightmare. Everything is in cash, all local contractors dick around with you, prices change, there is no accounting done by any local organization. It all becomes this nebulous "cost"... and then turns out your land title or permit is wrong and you have to pay off 5 corrupt local officials. 

 Tl;dr 

Reddit: So, what happened?

Justin: I don't know

Reddit: Thanks for the AMA, Justin! Great investigating! They did goto Haiti, and know what *didn't* happen, which is the important thing. That wasn't the question. The question was "where did the money go?"  Unless Red Cross gives a specific account or an insider blows the whistle, it's impossible to know. What the investigation found was where the money *didn't* go, such as their stated goal of building houses.   
  
That alone is a huge revelation.  It *is* good investigation to find out we don't know what we thought we knew, and that we don't know what we should know. My understanding is that there is evidence some projects where chosen for good optics rather than how much good they do.    Were there any bullying or other efforts by the Red Cross to stifle the release of your investigations? When we went to Haiti to track down what happened to some of the money, we went out to a neighborhood called Campeche where the Red Cross was doing a project. We asked for a tour and interview, but Red Cross officials declined. So we went on our own. These residents had as many questions for us as we had for them. They wanted to know what was happening with the project. We didn't have a whole lot of answers, but we did have a Red Cross press release. We showed it to them. They were stunned when they read the project consisted of small interventions, not new homes as they had been promised. And that the project in Campeche and the surrounding areas was costing $24 million. When we left that night, we got an email from the head of the Red Cross' public affairs office. It said we were "creating ill will in the community which may give rise to a security incident. We will hold you and your news organizations fully responsible." No security incident happened. But the neighbors did ask if they could keep the press release! Wtf!? That sounds like the kind of organization that I will NEVER donate money to. I literally called the red cross a scam organisation a few weeks back and got down voted... The Swedish Red Cross have pulled the same type of shit and using something like 70-80% of the donation to run the organisation. It is not a good charity at all. You'd be surprised how much money goes to the organization for all these fund raising charities.

Most charities work like thus:

1. Initial investment, say $1000.
2. Spend $800 on advertising/wages, spend $100 on events, $100 on charity related projects.
3. Raise $10,000 from the events.
4. Spend $8,000 on advertising/wages, $1,000 on events, $1,000 on charity projects.
5. Raise $100,000 from events.
6. Spend $80,000 on advertising/wages, etc.

They could've spent the initial $1,000 on charity projects, but it would be difficult to earn addition money for more events.  But as long as they spend money on advertising/events/wages, they are going to earn more money to put towards charity agendas, which ends up far outweighing the initial monies they had.

So when a charity spends 80% of the money on internal or events, it is to raise more money via expanding the organization and donation audience.  20% of $10,000 is far less than 20% of $1,000,000.  Even if they were to spend $800,000 on internal expenses, they are more likely to create addition revenue to be used to fund more charity projects.

Think of it as a business like Walmart which people use to buy supplies.  1 Walmart will cover a small area of town, but if they use their revenue to build another Walmart, then they can cover a larger area.  Rinse and repeat until they cover the entire town/state/country/globe.  This is how charities work.  If that 1 Walmart doesn't expand, they could lower their prices so their profit is low and the customers get better deals, but in terms of % of the town population, only a small amount will get these deals, and everyone else has to shop at Wallmart which charges 150% more.





 There's a great TED talk that elaborates on this thought: http://www.ted.com/talks/dan_pallotta_the_way_we_think_about_charity_is_dead_wrong?language=en

I understand the way of thinking but I don't think it works without complete transparency and evidence of results. We don't see that from the ARC. Maybe money is just too powerful. Wow they got super defens~~e~~ive. We tend to mock North Korea for putting out propaganda and their citizens believing it. Feels to weird that I'm on the other side of it, I wouldn't have known about this on my own. Also feels a bit embarrassing that they're looking at that brochure wondering how people could believe it's true. In the spirit of this AMA - which is about accountability - I'm concerned about what you wrote in the bold face part of your headline.

**For instance, the charity claimed it provided homes to more than 130,000 Haitians. They didn't. They built only six permanent homes.**

That inclines the reader to compare those, but you've added the word permanent in one of the comparables.

You've given the details just above, and they are damning, but I think you mis-represented it at the top and that isn't right. Given that the environment both in Haiti and within large NGOs appears to be so pervasively corrupt, what can donors do to ensure that their money gets to where it should go? Thank you for asking that question. First, I don't all NGOs working in Haiti are corrupt. There are many that do tremendous work in all sectors of the country. Having said that I think what donors can do is  to work with local organizations that are connected with the population. Too often these groups are not even recognized.  This can be done in several ways, one of which is to help these groups build capacity to manage funds and keep proper records.  Regular donors have no means to sift through all the local NGOs and do a due diligence on their efficiency and governance. What we donors need, is a Global NGO that for each crisis of this type - Haiti, Nepal, etc - that will use the funds in the way that is best for the country. F.ex they would be politically independent, ensure western style transparency and anti-corruption safeguards, establish a governance board consisting of representatives of the government, local NGOs and community reps that would decide allocation of funds, and ensure good follow-up on project execution.

Red Cross has traditionally represented credibility, and their current "wander in the desert" leaves a void. Medicine sans Frontier holds that mantle today, but their focus is too narrow to adequately fill the void.  Hmmm... sort of like the U.N. was supposed to be? I'm all for it, but unless something changes in international politics, my cynicism says this isn't going to happen. Too many special interests on the nation-state levels.  Well, the UN was to be a conduit between nations and countries in crisis (at least if you're thinking WFP and WHO). This would be more a conduit between individual donors and affected people.

I've worked with similar "ground rules" when doing Corporate Social Responsibility, and find it to be effective. But you have to be absolute: "abide by the ground rules or there will be no funds". there are a couple reasons why this isn't feasible.

first, creating an NGO per crisis just adds more noise at a huge cost. start up costs are not insignificant. on the ground learning is not easy or cheap. you'd basically be throwing money at an unknown organization with no track record of success.

second, it takes forever to get registered in these countries. a new NGO without legal status would not be able to spend the money on anything.

if you want to give to an NGO during a disaster, it's worth the homework to see who was there before the bad things happen. then you should measure their performance against their stated mission. and you should feel aligned and invested in that mission, so that you, the donor, are invested in the success of the programs long after the crisis has passed. No, the point would be for this to be a permanent organization, exactly to avoid the need for new organization every time. 

I think you and I are actually aligned on idea / vision. Bypassing the government is really a systemic problem with our foreign aid system. For example, in the immediate aftermath of the earthquake, less than 1% of aid actually went to the government. This has a big impact on the development of the state and its institutions. Instead of building capacity within the government, weve set up a parallel public delivery system.  But that leads into the classic problem of empowering a corrupt government vs undermining it Yeah, a tough question, but what we've done with our foreign aid system is basically legalize corruption. If a government minister takes money off the top, its corruption, when a development company does its called overhead. When Haitians see NGOs driving around in fancy SUVs, living behind gated communities and partying on the beaches they see that as corruption. In the end, the question is what will have the most effective results. 

 That indicates the NGOs hired idiots and/or had too little oversight. I've worked most of my career in developing nations (in the energy industry) and cracked a hard whip about how I and my staff behaved - you show respect for the host country and it's culture, as an expat you are always the outward face of the company (act morally, respect all laws, adapt to the culture, don't be flashy - but maintain focus on safety).

I honestly think NGOs ought to get more management from business. These are terribly basic management failings! This is the problem that we're facing in Nepal right now. Many of our big bilateral donors have refused to channel their funds through the government. We Nepalis know that our government is terribly corrupt but also that INGOs aren't perfect either. My opinion is that we have to think in the long term. Empowering the government is always a sustainable choice. If you run everything through NGOs, the people tend to distrust the government, which is terrible for any country, especially a poor one. Also, NGOs have overheads that siphon off so much of the aid. Everything, from the consultants brought in, to the cars used to ferry them around, to the costs incurred by the visit of the head of the INGO to some remote part of Nepal, is factored into the aid that they pledge. In the end, very little ends up going to the people even as INGOs like the Red Cross boast of having spent billions of dollars and built thousands of homes.  &gt; If you run everything through NGOs, the people tend to distrust the government

Do the people have any reason to trust government? I don't think eliminating more trustworthy organizations to get the people to trust a non-trustworthy organization is a viable solution.  But the organisations aren't that trustworthy either. And the problem with bypassing the government is that who takes care of the country in the long run? As a democracy, we can always vote to elect new leaders, who might be better and not so corrupt. But if the people don't have any trust in the state's institutions, how is a country going to function? We'd become a republic of NGOs. 
If you look at South Sudan during the war, it basically _was_ a republic of NGOs. The Government in the North was providing no services to the South, and all services - education, health, water and sanitation was being provided by NGOs ... because, if they didnt provide the services, then basically people would die. 

You can now see the transition from NGO services to Government services with the new'ish Government of South Sudan .... and frankly, that transition is not going so well, since the Government seems quite preoccupied with a whole lot of things other than providing basic services to its citizens. 

You assume that people can just vote to elect new leaders who might be better and not so corrupt ... but ..... that's just not possible in every country ... as you'd know from your own experience of the elections in Nepal ... You're right, yes it is exceedingly difficult to elect new leaders who might be better. God knows, we've tried in Nepal. But its more than that now. Its become an ideological thing. We have to believe in the democratic process because we sacrificed so much just to get it. NGOs aren't terrible but they're not good for long term nation-building. The state will always need to fill that role, and if we undermine the state's structures at a time of crisis like this, the damage might be irreparable. 

I know this will be a long and arduous process and we will need NGOs, but their roles must be clearly circumscribed and Nepalis should be able to decide what we need most, not NGOs or donors. We are not laboratories for experiment, which is what India, the US, the UK and even European countries have treated us for so long. 

I just don't know how exactly to do this, that's up to people cleverer than me.  &gt; large NGOs appears to be so pervasively corrupt

Citation needed here, please. In the original story, there's the following bit:

NPR and ProPublica were "creating ill will in the community, which may give rise to a security incident," the email says. "We will hold you and your news organizations fully responsible."

What was it like to receive a response like that? It seems to me like a blatant intimidation attempt, so I'd be really curious as to both your initial takes and any broader perspective you've gained, as well as if there were any other questionable American Red Cross statements. We were fairly shocked to get that email. Earlier that day we had been talking to Jean Jean Flaubert, who is the head of a local community group in the neighborhood of Campeche that was actually set up by the Red Cross. We were accused of providing false information to community members when in fact we had shown them a Red Cross press release about the project from the group's website. Thanks so much for the response! Many critics have said the American Red Cross can at times be more concerned with their image than with their actual aid work. I found the criticism of "creating ill will in the community" in response to allegations regarding their effectiveness to be particularly emblematic of that branch of allegations. 

Moving forward: besides your calls for increased transparency what changes would you like to ultimately see in the ways the ARC and NGOs like them operate? This reminds me of the Wounded Warriors non-profit.  They're having issues with their money mismanagement.  It seems that WW and ARC are guilting you into donating to keep their organization alive.   I guess the pamphlet contained false information...

edit:thanks for your work.  Can you provide details of the other problems with their work? I give money to the Red Cross and am wondering if my money would be better elsewhere. What are some of these 'string of failures'. Also is the claim that they provided home's to 130,000 Haitians true? They only *built* 6 houses but provided rental subsidies - does this 130,000 figure stand up to scrutiny? thanks.  We went in search of how the American Red Cross spent the nearly $500 million in Haiti and what we found wasn't good. When we reviewed hundreds of pages of their internal documents, we saw a number of mismanaged projects, like one in the northern part of the country that has left residents angry and another in a neighborhood called Campeche, where the Red Cross has spent or committed $24 million but has accomplished very little. We found an instance where the Red Cross hadn't built anything useful for residents but was using some of the money to teach residents to wash their hands with soap or water. Only problem was these residents did not have access to soap or water. The Red Cross has repeatedly said they have provided homes for more than 130,000 people. But the bulk of that number is made up of people who attended a seminar on how to fix their own homes, received rental subsidies or got temporary shelters that disintegrate in three to five years. After five years and almost half a billion dollars, they have built exactly six homes.  How many of that 130,000 received rental subsidies for permanent homes? I'm a Red Cross disaster volunteer in the US at the local level, but I'm speaking only for myself.

Much of the issue with the Red Cross in Haiti seems to me to be that the things that the organization has been trying to accomplish there are things that we *don't* do in the US, under the National Disaster Recovery Framework, Voluntary Organizations Active in Disaster, etc. For instance, we don't build homes here. We don't run sanitation projects. We don't deal with land title. We come in, help people with basic needs after a disaster -- food, clothing, shelter -- and then help people connect with and transition to the correct organizations for longer-term recovery needs if they have them. That's how the US system basically works. Normally, complaining that the American Red Cross didn't build a house would be the equivalent of complaining that Habitat for Humanity didn't operate an emergency shelter -- that's just not what it does.

I don't know how or why the American Red Cross took on the role it has in Haiti since national Red Cross/Red Crescent organizations usually don't do long-term work outside their own borders, but my personal suspicion is that there was a recovery vacuum where Haitian NGOs and government couldn't handle response and no other international organization had the resources to even begin to take on something that size. Whether or not that was a great decision is open for debate, but at some level there's probably a "If not the American Red Cross, then who?" question to ask as well.

(And I'll add my standard disclaimer when discussing the Red Cross -- Disaster relief is *really, really* complicated. Until you've tried to accomplish anything in a disaster environment, you have no idea. The Red Cross is there because important things aren't functioning, so expecting everything to work well is deeply unrealistic. The amazing thing to me about disaster relief is that it ever goes *right*.) Thank you for the reply. I'm finding it very hard to decide what I think. Is the Red Cross a failing organisation, badly managed that does not deserve my money, or is it an organisation doing it's best in very difficult circumstances and not always succeeding. Guess I'll never know! The truth is that it's almost certainly both simultaneously. Such is the reality of most organizations and especially large ones. &gt; After five years and almost half a billion dollars, they have built exactly six homes

How many hospitals? I think if you are asking this question, you should be looking at MSF (Doctors without borders).  My wife and I have designated them in our wills and we donate monthly. thank you yes, I also donate money to these guys. Hi, my name is Jonathan, and I'm work for the Reporting and Analytics team with the International Services Department of the American Red Cross who is very familiar with the data behind some of their claims. What Justin and his fellow reporters fail to do is accurately explain what the 130,000 number means, and the context that would help someone understand why the Red Cross planned its strategy as it did. My team and I responded to over 100 questions over several months about the details of this number, which these authors chose to ignore. 

As someone that lives and breathes what are called "logframes" (or logical frameworks), I can try to explain what the authors failed to. Indicators are built into these logframes, which organize your work in order to show progress towards your goals. The 130,000 people are shelter beneficiaries from different indicators across many different projects. Justin failed to capture in his article the context of the housing issue in Haiti. Simply building houses would be an easy indicator to measure, for sure, but wouldnt solve the problem. A build it and they will come is a strategy that has been tried, and does not work in Haiti. People want to remain close to their families and livelihoods. So greenfield development is out. When it comes to building in cities, obtaining land rights from the government became a challenge that was too difficult to overcome at the scale we were looking to work on.

So what else goes into the 130,000, if we only build six permanent houses? 

We put tens of thousands of people into new transitional shelters, built with the help of organizations like Habitat for Humanity. Helped pay the rent for people to move into apartments (after all, the vast majority of displaced people were renters to begin with). Weve trained people how to build stronger, more disaster-resistent homes. We helped relocate people with unconditional cash grants. And much more.

And not included in this count are those that benefitted from more than 850,000 tarps distributed in the first days of the response.

EDIT: I forgot to mention one of my favorite projects, a retrofitting project that fixes and strengthens existing homes!  Hey Jonathan, 

As we noted in the story, the Red Cross has said it provided homes to more than 130,000 people. But thats not accurate. That figure includes people who, for example, got construction training  not a home. 

The story also notes the Red Cross did repairs on several thousand of homes and built several thousand transitional shelters. 

We focused on permanent housing in part because the head of the Red Cross, Gail McGovern, announced early on that that would be the Red Cross focus. But a number of programs to provide permanent housing either failed or fell short. For example one of the planned projects to build new neighborhoods was delayed for years because of turnover in Red Cross leadership that resulted in shifting approaches to housing in Haiti  thats from a GAO report:
https://www.propublica.org/documents/item/1669909-gao-haiti-testimony.html#document/p18 Yeah but I mean, give a man a house and he only has a house til he dies, teach a man how to build a house and he probably won't build anything because he lives in Haiti and everything is destroyed so good luck with that. Fishing lessons are of no use to a man who lives in the desert. Hey Justin, thanks for the reply! What I don't think your article did, however, was give context. Our approach to housing has shifted as the needs of people in Haiti shifted. In the early response phase, we looked to provide tarps and other goods and services to meet the immediate needs of disaster victims. Permanent homes, as we learned in Haiti, posed too many challenges given the environment (see other comments for what those challenges are). But does the Red Cross give that "context" when they trumpet their achievements (e.g., in fundraising appeals)? 

It seems fair, to me, to hold them to the plain meaning of their public words. &gt;But does the Red Cross give that "context" when they trumpet their achievements (e.g., in fundraising appeals)?

No. That is the issue. It's deceptive marketing used to increase their donations. Including 'tarps' when you're talking about housing seems almost mockery to me. I agree, but they say the 130,000 doesnt include tarps. 

If they provided tarps for 860,000 people and some form of emergency shelter for 130,000 people, its hard to see how 860,000 people could be included as part of the 130,000 figure ...
 i'm sure they appreciated them at the time. Disclaimer: I know nothing about the Red Cross. So this is just a thought:      

What would you do if people gave you half a billion dollars to help Haiti, and you went to Haiti intending to use that money to help Haiti, but when you got there, the situation was so out of control (beyond your ability to control it) that you ended up not being able to spend the money how you first thought you would?      

You do your best to spend the money to help Haitian people but shit is *messed up* and just throwing money at it is getting you nowhere. So you try different things to get the money to help people.       

Then you have to raise money to keep helping people in other places in the world, which sometimes you can do very, very well, and sometimes you're not as good at (for reasons beyond your control that are related to crises, local political corruption, etc.). What would you do and say in your materials? How would you react if you knew journalists were out to write a story painting you as wasting all this money?  &gt; How would you react if you knew journalists were out to write a story painting you as wasting all this money? 

I would probably spend some (very little needed) to properly account for what I did spend (including any graft I felt obligated to pay) so that I could properly answer those journalists' questions (or properly refute them if I felt they ignored my data).  This whole thing would go away if the red cross would disclose how the money was spent. Even if it got wasted because of the chaotic nature of trying to rebuild a country, people like me would be more understanding if we could see that in dollar figures. The PR response from your organization just makes you guys look worse because we only want a specific answer to a specific question.

Your organization raised millions of dollars to help haiti. In approximate dollars, how was that money spent? Jonathan, from my reading of the article it seems the publication does show other projects focused on helping build, repair, or maintain shelter for Haitian victims. However, the fact still remains that the Red Cross claimed, and you have claimed as well, that you are trying to build sustainable shelters for disaster victims. In the very same breath you counter the numbers from the piece with tarps and shelters that fall apart after 3-5 years. How is this sustainable? 

To add insult to injury, there are widespread claims that obtaining land permits essentially prevented the production of any new residences. Is this not something that should have been thoroughly researched before putting out mass amounts of monetary investment, press releases, and reports claiming this was the plan? It isn't as though there aren't any Haitians outside of the country who could have spoken to the community, both legal and on the ground, required for relief efforts.

Lastly, it is very disheartening to have a data analyst jump onto issues like this to speak about "logframes" and "indicators."  Perhaps this is the very issue with the Red Cross approach to this disaster in particular. If "logframes" and "indicators" are the primary focus of the organization and so little emphasis was put on practical planning and implementation, it's no wonder the administrative costs ate so much of the budget meant to help the victims. 

I would implore the Red Cross to stop trying to pass the buck for their failures onto their partners and NGO's on the ground. The Red Cross is supposed to be professional and experienced at dealing with these types of entities. If they cannot vet and reinforce appropriate NGO's, what is the point of sending them my money? I have just as good of a chance of choosing the right NGO on the ground as the Red Cross seems to have had despite the millions and millions of dollars at their disposal.  Is it true that the Red Cross [diverted emergency vehicles for PR reasons and told empty emergency vehicles to drive around just to be seen](https://www.propublica.org/article/the-red-cross-secret-disaster) during hurricanes Sandy and Isaac? Damn that's scummy You're representing yourself as an employee of the Red Cross without providing any proof. Because your comments thus far are contradicting what the OPs are saying, you may want to either schedule your own AMA or at the very least provide proof that you are who you say you are. Without that, your replies have no credibility, especially considering your new account status. 

I know all of this because I am the President of the United States. I would be happy to verify my identity with a moderator via my work phone or work email! I'm also the contact person for the ARC work on the NGO Aid Map. &gt; logical frameworks

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Logical_framework_approach Why aren't you providing a detailed breakdown, Jonathon?

I have donated money to the Red Cross in the past.  Beyond that, I trust NPR.  If you don't provide that breakdown, how can anyone ever trust you again?

Please, provide a detailed breakdown. They probably can't because they probably don't have strict enough accounting practices across their organization to know where the money actually went. Which is just begging for waste and corruption, if it's not there already.

Half a billion dollars is a LOT of money, and it doesn't leave the door a few hundred dollar bills at a time.  Hell, even if it does you can describe that as "$200k as petty cash to our senior, on-the-ground supervisors."  And then you should probably have receipts for most of that.  

If you're spending $250k on something, it only makes sense to have a few lines describing where that money went, and to track if it actually had results. Thank you for this reporting, I was in Nepal during the earthquake and heard similar concerns about the actual extent of the Red Cross's relief work in the immediate days after the earthquake. What implications do you think this incident in Haiti has for their efforts in Nepal and the International Red Cross as a whole? Well, if it encourages donors to take a closer look at who they're giving their money to, and to direct more funds to local groups, then that will likely lead to a more effective response. One of the best ways to hold the Red Cross accountable is to "vote with your wallet", if their donations aren't coming in as quickly, they'll have to change their practices to regain trust.  Have you seen the Vice special on the Haiti disaster relief failures? What did you think of it? I liked it...then again, I'm in it. But in all seriousness, I think it did a good job showing how these issues are really systemic problems with our foreign aid system - not simple fixes or simply the problem of working in a difficult environment. We've built the system, now we have to change it.  First, thank you for that report. I am a journalist in Nepal and I am sure you know that Nepal is going through a situation that is very similar to what Haiti went through. Here too, international aid agencies like the Red Cross and other are extremely pervasive. After the devastating earthquake here, we are trying to rebuild in a way that is transparent, accountable and sustainable. These seem to be the catchphrases for every I/NGO, though they are rarely practiced.

My question is, how do we do what you did? But not five years on. How do we hold to account international agencies like the Red Cross, who are so powerful in poor countries like ours that they can pretty much dictate policy. 

Nepal doesn't want to be another Haiti. What would you recommend we do to stay vigilant so that we don't become another Haiti? One simple thought of what you can do as a journalist: keep on it. What's happening to all the money that was donated?  Demand an accounting of the money from big agencies (and governments) and if they don't give it, write that they won't give it...  Have any large scale, legal investigations been launched to look into what's going on?  Can those who lead the Red Cross be held responsible if it's determined that they've mishandled funds?

Also, what's the best thing that the average person could do to assist in this situation? The GAO (the investigative arm of Congress) is currently working on a report about the Red Cross (though not focused on Haiti). And a congressman has called for hearings about the Haiti program. Not clear if that will happen yet. It turns out that even though the Red Cross is private, it was chartered by Congress and so lawmakers can do oversight of the group. 

In general -- not just with the Red Cross -- if you give money to a group, you should know that you're in a position to demand meaningful transparency. Write letters/emails etc.  [deleted] This actually happened last time we did an AMA on our Red Cross/Sandy reporting last year: https://www.reddit.com/r/IAmA/comments/2kw3dj/were_propublica_reporters_just

But obviously the AMA is open to anyone!  Thanks for the reply! I have worked at many NPO's and this story is an important one. When people ask me where they should give, I always tell them to do their research and give to those who have boots on the ground in the areas affected first. I'm glad we are on the same page. Just wanted to say **thank you** for the hard work that must go into doing things like this. Its good to see there are still people who care!  &gt; What's your guys thoughts on the fact that right now there is someone from the Red Cross trying to do PR damage control on this AMA?

Why shouldn't they?  This kind of dialogue is amazing.  Two large organizations are in dispute over facts as present via the media and they come here to debate.  It's awesome. This.  First people are pissed at ARC because they aren't saying enough, then people are pissed because people from ARC are saying things here.

I think there were some shenanigans somewhere.  But I have zero problems with a legit rep of an organization being called out in the AMA sticking his head in. Great research and information regarding the entire issue at hand. I've always had interesting thoughts towards the organization. I did not donate, and would not donate to the RC.

But, I did read one of their defenses was that they donated almost $6 million to help fund the building of PIH in Mirebalais, which, working in the central plateau, is doing a lot of great work.

While their issues are inexcusable for 6 homes and various other red flags - are there good things that were done with the money that you uncovered, such as the PIH contribution? If so, what are they? If not, what are the real stats on their claims of not building homes but doing major other work? That's a good point. The Red Cross gave many millions to other organizations and other projects, in effect functioning as a donor or development agency. The problem is that's not the Red Cross's mandate or expertise. But as the Propublica/NPR piece shows, the lacked the capacity of expertise to effectively spend the $500 million that they raised. While some of those investments may have gone to worthwhile projects, it adds layers of overhead. Because the Red Cross gets such high-profile fundraising support, they get more money than everyone else, but often can't find effective ways to use it. 

 How do we begin to bridge the gap between big money/ donor agencies to the smaller orgs who are the experts and have the cultural background for a region? As you mentioned, the RC subcontracted for many of those projects because they won the big grants. It's very, very difficult for smaller aid organizations to win grants directly from large donors. What do you foresee as being a possible solution? Excellent question. There are many efforts to try and change this, first and foremost, donors need to be more committed to actually working with these smaller local groups. Also, there are many contractual barriers, for example, USAID requires multiple years of audited financial statements, something that not all local groups (especially after the quake) had. Breaking down aid contracts/grants into smaller pieces would also really help smaller organizations compete with the big players in the development industry.  Hello, thank you for your AMA!

Your investigation seems to observe and question the "mismanagement" of the American Red Cross. Did you try to investigate the management of other societies of the Red Cross that were involved in Haiti? We didn't look closely at other RC societies, which are autonomous entities. We do know there were a lot of different societies active in Haiti. Though the American Red Cross by far raised the most money.  Thank you for your reply and your work! Is there a history of the Red Cross  failing in its claims and promises, or is this more of an isolated situation?  We have found that it's not isolated. We were told repeatedly while reporting on the response to Hurricane Sandy that there is reason to doubt the Red Cross' claims about their work. 

https://www.propublica.org/article/red-cross-ceo-has-been-misleading-about-donations

From that story:
The Red Cross says that it served 17.5 million meals and snacks during the Sandy relief effort. It has used that number in responses to inquiries from New York State Attorney General Eric Schneiderman.

But multiple current and former staffers and volunteers raise questions about the accuracy of those numbers.

During major disasters, the Red Cross often counts meals that are prepared as meals served, according to 11 people ProPublica spoke with. (Most spoke to ProPublica on the condition of anonymity because they still worked for the Red Cross or feared alienating the charity.) That difference is important because large volumes of meals that are prepared are ultimately not served, but rather thrown out because of poor planning and the chaotic nature of disasters.

One former staffer, from a chapter in Massachusetts says, "The idea that the numbers are based on people getting the meals is ludicrous," adding that "there's no mechanism to report how much is actually served." 

The Red Cross told ProPublica and NPR that it stands by its public "meals served" numbers and says it has a policy in place to count them. It provided us with forms volunteers are required to fill out to track meals. I'd also just add that one of the main responses from the Red Cross to this recent story was that Haiti is an incredibly hard place to work, with poor governance and land titling issues. Well, the reporters saw very similar problems with the Red Cross' work in New York. Do those problems exist there as well? I don't think the working environment is a valid excuse any longer.  I spent a week drilling water wells in southern Zambia with Engineers Without Borders after planning the project for about a year. We had more setbacks and delays when we got there than one could imagine. Getting parts to repair drilling equipment is a 6 month ordeal, however we were able to drill wells that produce clean water for hundreds. I have no experience with Haiti, but Amazon ships my packages within 2 days in the U.S. 

Claiming a difficult working environment would be fine if they had only say a month to complete tasks... five YEARS later... Within the Red Cross, everything is a "body count" when it comes to reporting items such as snacks, people sheltered, etc. and the numbers are ALWAYS inflated for public consumption. If they reported what was actually given out instead of their fluffed numbers, it wouldn't look as good in the next fundraising pitch. What tipped you off to this story?

Is there potential for a class action lawsuit? Good question. Laura and I (and another colleague, Jesse Eisinger), did a lot of reporting last year about the American Red Cross' response to domestic disasters. Our main story was about issues with the response to Hurricane Sandy in New York: https://www.propublica.org/article/the-red-cross-secret-disaster

After we published that, we began to hear from current and former Red Cross employees recommending we take a look at the Haiti program. Generally these were people who were troubled by what they had seen and thought there should be an accounting. 

In re: class action -- I'm not a lawyer so I wouldn't want to weigh in I've heard that the money donated vs. what is actually used for the United Way and for the RC is just sad, specifically for the disasters in Oklahoma. Have you see the Red Cross spokeswoman that went on The O'reilly Factor? How do you respond to what she has to say? How would you respond to [this Skeptic's StackExchange answer disagreeing with your report completely](http://skeptics.stackexchange.com/questions/27927/has-the-red-cross-raised-half-a-billion-dollars-for-haiti-to-build-6-houses)?

TL;DR of the linked answers:

&gt; TLDR: The article has accidentally or deliberately confused the earthquake relief project with the much smaller neighbourhood renewal project, and attacked them both for not doing things they weren't intended to do. The Red Cross did much more in Haiti than build six houses, but it may not have been as much as could be expected. ProPublica/NPR:

In face of the PR semantics going on regarding the difficulties of building permanent homes vs providing shelter (or 'transitional' shelters) I really feel the fact that [7,500 permanent homes were built by the Canadian Red Cross] (http://www.nationalpost.com/m/wp/blog.html?b=news.nationalpost.com%2F%2Fnews%2Fcanada%2Fcanada-did-it-better-scathing-report-accuses-american-red-cross-of-bungling-500m-after-haiti-quake) really hits the nail in the coffin regarding the excuses the American Red Cross is giving.

In [this comment] (https://www.reddit.com/r/IAmA/comments/39l8cv/we_wrote_a_report_on_what_the_red_cross_did_with/cs4a3ay) from a Red Cross PR guy in this AMA, he states:
&gt;A build it and they will come is a strategy that has been tried, and does not work in Haiti.

Do you feel that the Canadians were less effective in their approach at focusing on permanent structures vs transitioning homes, and do you feel that the downplay of difficulties being expressed by the American Red Cross is just excuses to cover up poor decisions vs foul play (read: profiteering off catastrophe) ?

 I would hesitate to judge relief groups by the metric of how many permanent houses they built. I live in Haiti and I could show you a tour of a few nice new housing developments that are essentially empty. People don't want to live out in the middle of nowhere, yet that's the easiest place to figure out land titles. Are the homes being used? Excellent piece of investigative journalism. I've always been a fan of ProPublica's reporting.

How has the response to the investigation been, from the public, governments, Red Cross? Has the lack of specific information about expenditures in Haiti triggered any sort of external audit? Ultimately, who holds the Red Cross responsible? Thanks. Let's see, the Red Cross has released several statements you can read on their site: http://www.redcross.org/news/article/The-Real-Story-of-the-6-Homes-Answering-Questions-about-Haiti 

The story has gotten a lot of attention from the media in Haiti -- we actually just published a piece about a press conference that was held this week during which Haitian journalists demanded answers from a Red Cross official: https://www.propublica.org/article/haitian-reporters-demand-answers-from-red-cross-and-dont-get-many

And a congressman has called for hearings here in the US, as well. Unclear if that will happen or not. 

(addendum: there are also some really interesting comments on the story from various aid workers who have been in Haiti https://www.propublica.org/article/how-the-red-cross-raised-half-a-billion-dollars-for-haiti-and-built-6-homes#disqus_thread  The link about the hearings isn't working. Can you give more information about it? Here are some of the top (parent) comments, copy pasted...

----

I am a US educated engineer, having received my education from commendable universities located in New York and Washington, D.C. Following the Haiti earthquake in 2010, I submitted my resume to the Red Cross and other notable aid agencies and never received any responses. I indicated on my cover letters that I was a Haitian American and that I was fluent in French, Creole, Spanish, and English. My engineering background and experience were extensive, having worked at several major corporations (i.e. PdVSA). My references were excellent, describing the co-worker/cohort confidence in my professional abilities. Head hunters and human resources personnel from major US and Canadian corporations were contacting me during this period for high paying opportunities in my field. Yet, I was never contacted by the Red Cross. I wanted to work in Haiti and make a direct contribution that would benefit my people. I guess that I was not foreign enough or considered a 'viable' expat. Perhaps, the Red Cross was only interested in using Haiti's misery as a means to satisfy its own debt relief. If the proof is in the pudding, the Red Cross baked a lemon (six houses). So, for all of you who say that it was not the fault of the Red Cross because they just could not find qualified Creole speaking personnel....Hogwash! Myself and other Haitian Americans/Canadians tried and we were never given the opportunity to get to stage no. 1. To Justin Elliott: Thank you, for bringing this issue to light. In the words of William Cullen Bryant, "Truth Crushed To Earth Shall Rise Again!"

----

The Red Cross is a classic example of an organization that's been around too long and whose focus has shifted from fulfilling its mandate to guaranteeing its own success and survival. Typically, they're arrogant and unassailable. Individuals behave much the same way, only within a shorter time span. We have much to learn about how we handle change.

----

I worked in the global health field for years, and ran projects with USAID, the World Bank, Gates, and the other major funders. I also have many friends/colleagues who worked in Haiti after the earthquake (though none for the Red Cross).

I wish I could say that this story is unusual, but it isn't. There is an awful lot of waste, dysfunction and hypocrisy in the aid industry. Yet I would caution readers who do not know much about how global development and aid works to remember a few things:

(1) Overhead is not evil. "Overhead" makes an organization function. Like everywhere else, donors get what they pay for. You want a bunch of inexperienced, idealistic 20-somethings to run a multi-million dollar program? Then insist on razor-thin overhead. If, instead, you need professional management (as you would choose for any other kind of major initiative in, say, the States or Europe), you need to have a professional organization run by people who make sustainable (not unreasonable) salaries.
(2) You cannot simply go into a country like Haiti and do whatever you want. Haiti is/was not a blank canvass for foreigners to begin anew with. For starters, government there is so far beyond dysfunctional and corrupt as to make working there extraordinarily hard even before the earthquake. Absentee landlords will demand extortionate prices for land use (i.e. building homes) when they learn an international group is involved, because they know NGOs have deep pockets. Gov't officials demand endless bribes, and insist on orgs hiring their family/friends/people who have paid them. The gravy train never stops.
(3) Local talent that has the needed competency level is often hard to find. They've also been bid up already by competing NGOs/agencies who want to poach them away. Experienced expat talent who's willing to relocate to Haiti is often hard to find, and definitely not cheap. Not only is it extremely hard working there, but don't forget that the security situation is constantly hairy.

There's no doubt that the Red Cross programme in Haiti is demonstrably not a success. But be very careful before concluding that the people involved were incompetent, venal or stupid. They have been trying to operate in an extremely hard situation, often with donors/agencies - like USAID - that are more interested in good press than results. They could've done much better. But there are reasons why they didn't.

----

We owe a great debt to PP for persisting in this fine investigation. Wiki says that Gail McGovern's original background includes a Johns Hopkins degree in "quantitative sciences." I'm guessing that makes her extra skillful at conflating statistics. This has been going on a very long time in the Red Cross and is typical of most large, bureaucratic non-profits: they stress donor collection skills over anything else. And they justify large CEO salaries with the excuse that it all starts with gathering funds. Well, that may be true, but if you can't deliver on the ground, you're useless. Corporatism (which has certainly spilled over in the non-profit arena) has become micro-focused on making money at the expense of production and quality. It shows up well in the boardroom. How can we expect less from a major non-profit like the RC? They get their leadership from private industry. And frankly, theyve become greedy.

Sure, we know it's difficult to work with locals in other countries. Non-profits should know that going in and spend most of their overhead on educating and sophisticating the actual development workers who must interface with the afflicted populace. Learn to do end runs around local corruption. Learn to target and manage efficiently. Above all, ASK the locals what they need. And be more transparent with your donor public.

This much of a disconnect between the publicly stated purpose of the Red Cross and what has actually happened is a disgrace and it sounds illegal. Certainly, they shouldnt be tax exempt when theyre not using this money properly.

I stopped trusting the RC years ago when I discovered that they didnt always use donations the way they said they were going to. Youd donate for one purpose, and theyd use it for another. Charity Navigator is a good place to check before donating and we need to educate our friends and neighbors about that.

And Im going to complain to my legislators.

----

Spent two years working in Haiti after the earthquake. I could write a book about all of the problems. Somewhat surprised that writers have chosen ex PM Bellerive as a source, as he was a very large part of the problem.

Someone should ask him why he blocked delivery of Typhoid medicine to the country, and later the Cholera kits.

Bill Clinton's IHRC turned into a joke, because Bellreive had ultimate veto authority over the projects the committee approved. Many of the major projects approved by the committee such as sanitation improvements hit a brick wall due to him. The Haitian Government does have imminent domain powers in their Constitution...One needs ask why he never exercised them.

Going in, we knew from experience at other disasters that the NGOs were very good at the basic rescue portion of their mission. The could get doctors on the ground, food, water, and shelter. The problem is none of them are geared toward, or capable of fixing the basic infrastructure issues on a long term basis. Haiti has a lot of basic infrastructure issues from lack of sanitation, electrical power, safe water, and basic construction issues having to do with the low quality concrete used in buildings - concrete failure, which killed most of the 250,000 or so victims. There are no building or construction standards.

The Red Cross' disaster was pretty standard for the course for all of the big NGOs. Rick Nolan, Minnesota's 8th district.  
   
Source: google One of the defenses of the Red Cross is that they never claimed to literally *build* 130,000 homes. Much of their work was invested into placing people in existing homes. This is because they have a policy not to buy land from corrupt governments, and it wouldn't have been a good use of their money. Is their any evidence that this may be true or are these claims unfounded?  The Red Cross public affairs office told us in an email, "We have committed $173 million to provide homes so far to over 132,000 people in Haiti." 
David Meltzer, general counsel of the Red Cross says the charity "moved 132,000 people out of tarps and tents and into homes." http://www.huffingtonpost.com/david-meltzer-/3-lessons-from-haiti-that-will-help-nepal_b_7214592.html
It took us two months of questions with the Red Cross to figure out that they had not actually "moved 132,000 people into homes" or even provided them homes, but had in fact provided a seminar to many of them to teach them how to repair their own homes, gave them temporary rental assistance or gave them temporary shelters that start to disintegrate within a few years.  &gt;They've allowed the American Red Cross to help build or operate eight hospitals and clinics, help stem a deadly cholera outbreak, provide job training, small business loans, clean water and sanitation and move 132,000 people out of tarps and tents into homes.

So, basically, there was an unclear exaggeration in that article.

Let's compare to your own exaggeration:
"How the red cross raised half a billion dollars for haiti and built 6 homes"

Now, given that they spent money on: Temporary rental assistance, temporary shelters, etc, why are you lying about what they spent the money on? They didn't just build 6 homes, they did a lot more work that affected a lot more people. How are we supposed to trust you if you are so willing to be dishonest about the extent of what they did?
 To rebuild so much, they need to teach people how to repair. It would also be wasteful to tear down a damaged home to rebuild it in full, not to mention how much more time that'd take. While I agree that the Red Cross could use clearer language, I'm not sure why you keep promoting the article with the 6 homes title. It seems a lot like clickbait and takes away from an otherwise good article. Honestly, I don't see the issue in providing emergency aid first, then educate, and only then finally do the work for the people. Teaching a man how to fish versus providing him with fish.  Not to be that guy but can we define the term home?

Is it a detached single family home with a garage and backyard?  Is it a two bedroom flat in an apartment building where two families live?  Is it the temporary yurt you live in your nomadic life?

I agree that tents that last 3-5 years don't count (Though that is basically what a yurt is).  But I would say paying for rent in an apartment building is "providing a home". As is investing the the repair of damage, otherwise uninhabitable former homes.



So can you define what YOU mean by home so we all know what we're talking about. Hello all! Who do you think should have jurisdiction over international NGO's accountability?

It seems like this case was fairly simple, since the American Red Cross was responsible, but what about the NGO's that are more international - like FIFA or UNICEF? Do you think every country that is affected by the NGO at any stage should be able to prosecute what it sees as corruption, mismanagement, etc? Governments have their own rules regarding NGOs that they fund. EU countries have different set of rules as comapred to the US or UK for example. What's going on in Haiti is that due to a weak government and outdated laws, many NGOs  take advantage of these conditions and lobby against changing them. Several Haitian governments in the past have tried to amend these laws that govern foreing NGOs and there have been strong resistance from the Mega international NGOs to the point in which they contribute to overthrow these governments. It seems like you guys (except for Jake and Francois) are more experts on the Red Cross than on Haiti. How did you overcome the steep learning curve to understanding aid in Haiti? How long did you spend in Haiti? Who/what were your primary sources for background?  Why did you choose the title "How the Red Cross Raised Half a Billion Dollars for Haiti and Built Six Homes" when you knew that the Red Cross also used those resources for water and water tablets, hospitals, sanitation, vaccinations, tents, temporary shelters, and food (in addition to failed housing projects)?  There is already plenty of damning information in the report; why was it necessary to make the title such an extreme misrepresentation of your findings?

Do you find it concerning that, due to your report's title and its reverberations in the press coverage, many people now think building six homes is all the Red Cross did with the $500M (e.g. [this Washington Post article](http://www.washingtonpost.com/news/morning-mix/wp/2015/06/04/the-red-cross-had-500-million-in-haitian-relief-money-and-it-built-just-6-houses/) divides $500M/6 to arrive at a misleading figure of $83.3M per house)?  What steps are you considering taking to rectify this widespread incorrect belief? &gt; What steps are you considering taking to rectify this widespread incorrect belief?

They have been asked this several times, and they keep defending themselves saying that they mention some of the good projects the Red Cross took part in, buried deep in their report. They know very well the majority of people don't read much beyond the headline, and those that do, have already been influenced so much beyond the headline, it is very unlikely many of them will be able to form an educated opinion free of bias. It seems like the Red Cross is not the organization it once was. Last year NPR reported on the Red Cross' seemingly bungled handling of relief efforts during Hurricane Sandy. Reports of Red Cross trucks being used for PR purposes instead of delivering aid, an incredible amount of wasted food, and meal prep at great expense with no one to actually deliver them to. 

There have been reports of administrative mismanagement within the organization as well. 

The Red Cross I remember was a well run and incredibly helpful organization that I happily donated money to each year. Now, I am hesitant to donate money because I don't feel like their true goal is helping people. 

**What do you think has led to the deterioration of the Red Cross over the years?**

**Is this problem limited to the US or is the Red Cross failing to uphold its duties in other countries besides Haiti?** McGovern happened. She launched a consolidation program back in October that dissolved chapters in a lot of towns because, as she put it to everyone, ...we need to save money because there haven't been any disasters to help us raise money. Local presence is lost, volunteers were once the lifeblood of the organization, but now they're treated as slaves by the paid staffers on the local level who are paid paupers wages, so they have no motivation to learn their jobs... In an environment like that, created by greed from the upper levels, the whole thing breaks down. Is there any transparency in how compensation works for Red Cross employees and executives? Do they potentially receive more money if more money is raised, like a commission? There are some disclosures on their annual tax return in terms of salaries -- but only for top officers: https://www.documentcloud.org/documents/1102501-2013-american-red-cross-tax-return.html#document/p11 I've seen some stories that the majority of the money for Wounded Warrior Project goes to the executives at the charity and to marketing. Have you thought about investigating Wounded Warrior Project?  Not familiar with them but we're always looking for story ideas. My email is up above and you can find other ProPublica contacts here: https://www.propublica.org/about/contact How did you discover the fraud? Isn't it kind of an open secret how, er, opaque the red cross is?

I survived Katrina and volunteered with the RC as soon as I was able to escape to a less damaged area. I wanted to help other people who'd been affected; New Orleans was flooded, the Gulf Coast was a mess and there were thousands of people in desperate need. They trained us for days, then refused to send us out - they said "volunteers are not needed at this time; please stand by." This was during a natural fucking disaster, it was all hands on deck, and the Red Cross, as far as I could tell, was inflating their numbers by recruiting volunteers and then refusing to use them.

Since then, I've said I would never give to the Red Cross and have discouraged others from doing it, because I know their modus operandi. I was so frustrated when the earthquake happened and phone companies teamed up so you could text and donate $10 through the Red Cross. I'm not the least bit surprised they did this. I do hope people will give to better charities. And I thank you for taking the time to investigate and expose them. To take advantage of people like this is unconscionable.
 This is a question for Laura Sullivan.

NPR has a well-known preference for reporters with unusual names. Was there a period of time, perhaps before the quality of your reporting was recognized, that you faced overt or covert discrimination inside the organization? Or is the alleged bias against more common names just a myth? I feel very strongly my plain-jane name has been a significant disadvantage. Mostly because I long for a name like Neda Ulaby, Yuki Noguchi or Ofeibea Quist-Arcton.  Thanks for the chuckle! John Smith died during the hazing. Did the same thing occur with the money donated for Japan? Who The Fuck Made This Title? Do You Always Capitalize The First Letter Of Every Word? Clearly not. Only 75% of the words are capitalized.  Hi guys, I listened to the whole piece last week and was blown away. Obviously the Red Cross is a PR powerhouse and seems to have lots of agents and spinners in this AMA replying to top level comments in lieu of your responses, almost like theyre trying to hijack this AMA to defend their vague financial disclosures and dubious recovery accomplishments. Is this a common problem having Red Cross mouthpieces paid to follow you around and try to distract or sway the opinion of your audience?  As I was mentioning above, this actually happened last time we did an AMA about previous Red Cross reporting: https://www.reddit.com/r/IAmA/comments/2kw3dj/were_propublica_reporters_just

But again, it's not a problem -- we're happy to discuss our story with anyone. We had extensive correspondence with the Red Cross before publication and their answers are reflected in the story.  Is working in a nonprofit news org -- like NPR or ProPublica -- different than working in a for profit news org? If so, how? You report the news instead of delivering advertisments. This is a bit closer to home, but with the research you've done into the Red Cross as an organization, do you feel comfortable donating blood to the Red Cross, or are there better alternatives?   Holding organizations accountable for what happens to money people donate is a great thing. What is the goal of your investigation? What does resolution look like? If you could get your ideal response from Red Cross, what would it be? And how will all of this lead philanthropy to a better place? Is there another non-profit you would recommend funding as an alternative to the Red Cross? This is one of the most common questions I get. I don't think there is any best answer here, except that you should research organizations you're considering giving to and keep an eye out for local groups with strong community ties. Or, fund a group that focuses on a single issue that you support, that way you can be sure the money you donated is going to a cause you support.  Hi NPR  / ProPublica team,

Apologies I haven't had time yet to wade through all the comments, if this has been answered please point to it. I did read the NPR report last week, though. 

As a policy student, this report is the type of thing right up my alley, including NGO accountability and efficiency. However, from beginning to end you've strained my credulity in your report. Starting with the "Six permanent homes" headline, which is Buzzfeed clickbait, plain and simple. And you keep repeating that. Right away you've made me skeptical to anything that follows. You talk quite negatively about any work the Red Cross did that wasn't _directly_ helping a Haitian in need, and that makes me less inclined to take you seriously. If the Red Cross didn't have people on the ground before the earthquake, it makes a lot of sense for them to use local organizations.

I understand that you are trying to make a point about transparency and accountability, but if you're willing to take liberties with this misleading fact, I'm not sure what other liberties you've taken. If you want the Red Cross to be better about making claims, that's fine too. I am totally open to hearing valid criticism about the Red Cross. But I'm not sure I can trust a report like yours. 

I'm very disappointed in NPR for this report, I have to tell you. 

So my real question is : **What is it you hope to accomplish at with this report? What is it that you would like to see changed? And what do you expect those changes to cost, and I don't just mean in money, I also mean in services.** Because there's gonna be overhead. The people working for the Red Cross need to be paid. There is a difference between professional work and volunteer work, and I have no problem with the Red Cross paying them for professional work. 

(edit~ credulity =/= credibility) Seems to me that both sides ITT are being a bit disingenuous.  The headline is "Red Cross spent 500 million on 6 houses" which is misleading and doesn't list the other services and solutions the Red Cross provided.

On the other side, not releasing a detailed breakdown of how the money was spent, even after all this negative press makes the Red Cross seem guilty by omission.  Why wouldn't they release this info? Is there any way, any chance in hell, that this was the result of innocent mistakes and just poor management, and not something worse? Is there any reason to remain even vaguely optimistic about this organization? Hope never dies. But what I can say is that the employees of the Red Cross have lost faith in the current leadership of the organization. We obtained and published an internal employee survey last year that goes into more detail: 
https://www.propublica.org/article/internal-survey-shows-the-red-cross-own-employees-doubt-the-charitys-ethics

In response to the statement, "I trust the senior leadership of the American Red Cross," just 39 percent responded favorably.

In response to the statement, "The American Red Cross shows a commitment to ethical business decisions and conduct," 61 percent responded favorably. That means about 4 in 10 respondents doubt the ethics of the venerable charity.

 I'm a local disaster volunteer with the Red Cross, have been for five years or so. They don't pay me, nobody asked me to post this and these are my opinions: 

I'm not surprised that an employee survey last year showed poor morale and faith in leadership, because the Red Cross has been going through a massive transformation that's created a lot of upheaval and cost a lot of good people their jobs. But *good* journalism should have noted this beyond "latest in a series of layoffs" since I think anybody concerned about donor dollars should actually note the organization's changing business model and view it as a positive, not a negative. The word "transformative" gets thrown around a lot, but in the past few years the Red Cross truly has transformed and virtually nobody outside the disaster relief community even noticed.

Until four years ago or so, the Red Cross (outside of blood services) ran virtually in a franchise model, where each chapter had its own bank account, finance people, HR people, purchasing, marketing/PR, board with fiduciary responsibilities, health &amp; safety product sales force, fundraising, etc. with all of the overhead that entailed.

The national board brought in McGovern from AT&amp;T with the intention of stripping all that inefficiency out of the organization, doing things like centralizing HR or accounting or purchasing at the state level or higher; taking marketing away from local chapters and making it a district function, combining smaller chapters into bigger regions, etc. She did. It was really painful. In some cases, I think it's gone too far. Locally, for instance, we've probably got less than half the number of staff members in disaster cycle services than we did three years ago but we're responding to the same number of disasters regardless.

Having lived through this as a volunteer I hated watching a lot of people lose their jobs or have to move around the country, but as a *donor* to the Red Cross it's clear to me how much more efficient we are today than we used to be and how much lower our cost structure must be just given the empty cubicles in the local chapter. Again -- bad for the folks involved, often frustrating to volunteers who're trying to figure out who's got a particular responsibility these days, but done entirely with an eye toward fiscal responsibility. 

I'm not against independent reporting on the Red Cross -- I'm a former reporter myself, I value good journalism -- but I do feel that I've yet to see *any* reporting on the Red Cross that truly understood and explained it in all its complexities to an audience. I've joked that it's the best-known and worst-understood brand in the world, and when I see the discussions here and elsewhere I'm increasingly hard-pressed to think of a competitor for that distinction. Do you at ProPublica really put much weight in survey like this? I can't imagine these numbers being all that different than a typical major organization. How do they compare, considering you find that 4 in 10 to be significant? It's a good point to ask for reference when we're determining if something is significant... but 60% not trusting leadership and 40% believing their own company is unethical... Well your summarizing fits into my question - it doesn't say they are "unethical", it asks about a "commitment to ethical business decisions" which on a survey reads very differently. For example, I don't consider Coca-Cola or Frito-Lay "unethical", but at the same time I don't think they have a strong commitment to ethical business decisions.

EDIT: The more I think about it, they are really entirely different things. One would certainly get a much higher positive response rate because of it's ambiguity, like in this case. A commitment to ethical business decisions from Coca-Cola is vague. A commitment to ethical business decisions from an organization dedicated to disaster relief and helping people is not vague.  [deleted] The earthquake is but one of the many disasters, both natural and man-made, that have struck Haiti. Read up on its history, ever since French colonial times Haiti has been wrought with problems. When Haiti gained its independence it was made to pay a massive debt to France and it never really recovered after that, american and world bank neoliberal reforms have also worsened the local agricultural economy leading to mass migration to cities where there isn't much work. Thats why the earthquake was so appalling because it hit those most vulnerable in the cities. There is also the legacy of violence, political instability and mistrust of meddling foreigners who only seem to compound the country's woes. Its a pretty messed up situation I do not doubt the issues with money allocations, but don't you think that the headline is misleading?  Your implication is that every single cent outside of building 6 houses was wasted, and that clearly is untrue.  A major part of any disaster response money is spent for short term consumables: health care, waste removal, clean water, and temporary shelter.  How much of the money was spent on response rather than recovery? Exactly. They keep defending themselves saying they don't know where the money went, but that is untrue. They have been told and seen how a lot of the $500million was spent. So why don't we AT LEAST subtract what we DO know from the $500million, and then go from there. Your proposal is much more reasonable but then the journalists don't get to use a juicy headline.

And if the headline is not as juicy, the story doesn't get as much publicity.  

And if the story doesn't get as much publicity, then Justin doesn't get as much career advancement.

So you see how a misleading and sensationalist headline can directly benefit Justin's career.

I think Justin actually makes some very good points, and he has exposed some gross mismanagement in the American Red Cross.  However, it is sad to see he is willing to sacrifice credibility for sensationalism.

However, we all have to eat. Great report. How do you think the "trained people how to build stronger, more disaster-resistent homes" impact the Red Cross rep mentioned below should be counted? Do they report a number of houses that those trainees build? Do you think the American Red Cross is still an organization deserving of our dollars, or are there other charities with similar missions that will make better use of our donations? Are you worried that this investigation may be a double edged sword in that while some ugly truths are brought to light, on the other hand this could cripple the organization and leave a huge void in not only their ability to perform work due to the skepticism with the organization from governments and local organizations but also a big decrease in charitable donations? In once sense the best case scenario would be the Red cross gets their shit together but worst case could be the organization never recovers. 

Let's say the worst case scenario happens, do you think the other organizations can pick up the slack?  Is there any visual budget for donations received that the red Cross shows?  What would you guys say is the biggest obstacle for Haiti to tackle in terms with developing as a country? What can they do to eliminate that obstacle, and what can an average person like me do to help a country like Haiti? You have looked at the Red Cross before and their response to Sandy.  I was rather shocked by both the continued mismanagement and the handling of your reporting on them (e.g. blaming you for creating ill will in the community). This time around, did you feel like the organization had made any attempts to change for the better? How do you feel about the way that your work was presented?

When the story first broke it made the rounds in social media as, "Red Cross spends $500bn and builds six houses". 

Does this kind of click-bait headlining harm the actual work you did to shine a light on the response in Haiti by obscuring the actual facts and scope of the problem with sensationalism?

I appreciate you clarifying in your post that it was a matter of claimed vs actual houses built.  You claim that the Red Cross claimed to provide homes to over 130,000. But the [link](http://www.huffingtonpost.com/david-meltzer-/3-lessons-from-haiti-that-will-help-nepal_b_7214592.html)  you provide says the Red Cross moved 132,000 out of tarps and tents.

Why do you equate moving people out of tarps and tents to building homes? How do you explain the following about your article:

* The exceedingly poor quality of writing, in which you walk around points, make admissions, then turn back on those admissions to cover them back up, thus confusing the reader?
* The claim that Red Cross did nothing, while simultaneously admitting they spent hundreds of millions on sanitization, on cholera vaccinations, on temporary housing, on thousands of home repairs, on improving Haiti's infrastructure for disaster recovery, and on building hospitals and otherwise supplying healthcare?
* The suggestion that Red Cross did spend 91% of the money raised for Haiti on Haiti relief, but somehow did *not* spend 91% of the money raised for Haiti on Haiti relief, simply by claiming that The Red Cross is not a vertical monopoly and thus has to pay people like construction companies and health care providers to build shit and provide health services?
* Your constant slew of attacks on the Red Cross over the past years on the basis of framing effective and efficient behavior not well understood by laypeople as failures, including holding up the documents in which they cite the problems they had and the steps they're taking to reduce those problems and claiming that the Red Cross is secretly hiding their ineffectiveness and pretending problems don't exist?

I've reviewed your current and prior rips at the American Red Cross.  You consistently write in such a way as to smear the organization, covering over the facts and telling a narrative disjointed from reality.  You mislead the public perception away from what's actually happening, creating a false story from inaccurate and invalid commentary on facts.

As a final thought:  several organizations tried to arrest the Cholera spread; the Red Cross took weeks to finally get vaccinations and sanitization organized, in which time over 6000 people died.  Their efforts arrested the spread of a deadly disease that quickly claimed thousands and would have continued to claim millions of lives, especially the old, the young, and the infirm.  The Red Cross proves to be one of the most effective organizations at doing what the Red Cross does:  organizing disaster recovery.  How do you reconcile your unethical journalistic practices against the lives which will be lost as you damage public support for the Red Cross with what amounts to bureaucratic lies? [deleted] Hard to know what to make of that, but if you have information, please email me justin@propublica.org I somehow doubt that. If that were the case the red cross could just publish the numbers and leave the corrupt sub-contractors out to dry. They'd look dumb but not as dumb as they look right now.(pure speculation) Fantastic investigative journalism, here. Thank you for reporting real news. Did you uncover any evidence that the misappropriations extended beyond mismanagement and into corruption? Should the salaries and bonuses of charity leaders be a matter of public domain? Considering the international effort  (NGO'S/ IGO'S) for Haitian relief and aid programs what has been the reaction from other organisations in response to the investigations findings?

Is there any evidence of other organisations misrepresenting results of programs ?

If I remember correctly this isn't the first time ProPublica has investigated and discovered the American Red Cross being complicit in misleading the public (i.e. Superstorm Sandy rebuilding efforts) so is this a systemic issue within the American branch of the Red Cross or are the two cases unrelated Maybe you can give me an answer - if I shouldn't give my money to Red Cross, can you tell me which disaster-relief agency I SHOULD give my money to? Can you give me the tl;dr on why you capitalize every word in your post? It's hard to read. So it can be said they built TEMPORARY shelters for 130,000 people? I think its a little biased to only bring up the 6 permanet homes. How many temporary ones were built? Is it accurate to say that they didn't do their job simply because they didn't build any new houses? From what I had heard, providing housing didn't mean building new houses; it meant repairing existing homes, and renovating existing buildings to be able to better hold more people. The cost of these things was supposedly much less than that of buying land to build houses. Assuming that the Red Cross did indeed do these things, then, would you not say that they provided housing? When there is a massive disaster of such kind, we want to provide aid and donation as quickly as possible.  But it seems like there is no time to sift through the numerous aid organizations that request donations for the disaster aid.  ARC always seems to have the large name recognition and size to provide aid anywhere in the world but I am so disheartened by this report.  What would you recommend that the average person do when they want to help from around other side of the globe?  For Jake Johnston, are rental subsidies a viable solution for displaced victims? In statements the American Red Cross said that they put funds towards Rental Subsides. They do fill the need immediately in the area vs having to build something but I don't know about the sustainability, corruption, ect involved. Thanks! Do you have any feelings on the adoption of Haitian children that ended up splitting up families? How can we know we're actually doing good? Can you give us a list of maybe the top 5 organizations that we could donate to instead? I can't endorse a list of groups, but I can say: 

(a) if you're going to give, do a bit of research before giving to see what's been going on with the group in question to make sure it's the best place for your money

(b) groups that are local or have deep local ties are often the best option

(c) if you do give, you can, as a donor, demand meaningful transparency

***

This is from Jonathan Katz's book on Haiti after the earthquake:

"Usually, the discussion boils down to the same question: What should we do differently next time? Should we bother giving again? My answer is yes; but that by then, we will have waited too long. Donations toward immediate relief will bring doctors and rescuers when people are still pinned under concrete, stranded by floodwaters, or fleeing the firestorm. Still, its important to give wisely. Dig deeper to find organizations with long experience in the affected region. Find people who speak local languages and have strong local ties that will help ensure they understand what is needed, what is available, and to whom the help should go. Best of all would be to send help to NGOs and organizations from the affected countries themselves, so that they can lead the way. All that is important. But its now, in the ample time between emergencies, when the heaviest lifting has to be done."

http://www.amazon.com/The-Big-Truck-That-Went/dp/1137278978 Do you have any plans to look into the Girl Scouts?  Or the Pink Ribbon Campaign? Will you do the Clinton Foundation next? Apart from those 6 houses what else have they done (that can be proved)? Should I still donate blood to a organization like this? Were your investigations about the International Red Cross or the American Red Cross?

(Big difference, and you seem to be very vague about that, which is not at all helpful. If it's just the ARC that is run poorly, your report, by being unclear, is harming the IRC&amp;RC, which is still doing good work.)

I skimmed through, and saw an identification of an ARC logo, and then throughout the rest you say "Red Cross" with no identification of which Red Cross organization you're talking about. You even refer to the "Red Cross CEO" when, googling her name, shows it's the American Red Cross CEO.

Especially given that Haiti is not in the US, just saying "Red Cross" suggests it's the International Red Cross that is rife with problems. Very misleading.

Given that repeated error, why should I trust that the rest of your work was done well?
 Back in 2005, after a tsunami I don't remember where, I was hanging out with a few friends, one of whom worked for the Red Cross. I had graduated college the previous spring but lost my job in January of 2005 and was about to give up my house and move back in with my parents until I could get back on my feet, and had just given some of my last money to the Red Cross' fundraising effort in response to the disaster. It wasn't much, not enough to help me out of my jam, but possibly more useful to someone on the ground in the disaster area, so I gave it. Maybe $25 or $50. So my friend, who of course had no idea I had just given my almost literally last bit of cash to the Red Cross, makes the remark that they were receiving so many donations they "don't even know what to do with it."  My first thought was "Fuck. I could've spent that on beer," followed closely by some doubts about whether they could be trusted with money. It just sounded so messed up. "We're getting so much money we don't know what to do with it."  Assholes. How do you not know what to do with it!?  You give it to the poor people who just had their whole lives swallowed by the sea, for crying out loud!!  Buy food, build homes, whatever they need.  Honestly I haven't trusted them since that moment, and don't think I've donated to them much, if any, since then.   How about a visualization of Bernie Sanders fundraising? How does it compare to Hillary's? Here you go! https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=uu7vHxxDHrw

Since so many people are interested in Clinton and Sanders, I would be happy to do follow up screencasts to answer any specific questions. Just reply to this with more questions.

Edit: Just a quick tidbit for people who can't watch the video: Bernie Sanders consistently raises the least money of any Senator. Clinton raises the most money of any Senator. This is so clean and easy to navigate! I'm so glad you're doing this. Thanks for all your work to make this free and available to all. Can we see a CLINTON - SANDERS _ OBAMA comparison?

i'm wondering if Clinton &amp; Obama are basically bought by the same people... Yes, the major players under financial are the same. That is what I'm most concerned about seeing as they made the most, if I recall correctly, in president Obama's stimulus package. Where's my mistake?

Clinton 2006 = $27,190,129

Sanders 2006 &gt; $2,400,000

2006 Population New York state = 19,100,000

(2006 Population New York city = 8,251,000)

2006 Population Vermont = 622,892

Clinton 2006 per capita = $1.42

Sanders 2006 per capita &gt; $3.85


edit: had NYC population, not NY state

 This is an interesting way of looking at things!

In general, the reason people don't look at the numbers in this way, is because we are worried about the strings that come attached to money, and the positions a candidate has to take to be appealing to the people who fund them in order to get that money. 

In that sense, the absolute numbers matter far more than the per capita numbers. You can have policies that the primary funders of our elections (the extremely wealthy) disagree with much more easily when you're trying to raise a small amount of money compared to when you're trying to raise a large amount of money. Each Senate seat is equal in legislative power.  Hillary spent more than the UK did on their entire recent election.  Your per capita figure would be more relevant for comparing $ per donor, not resident.  And the point of the tool is where the money comes from.  Much of Bernie's money comes from retired individuals.  If individuals all donate small amounts, even if it adds up to $100 million, the corrupting influence is much less. Also, how do their opponents' numbers compare to their numbers? [deleted] A seat in the senate is a seat in the senate when it comes to interest groups.  Doesn't really add any context as it's not a per person thing.  Bernie or Hillary didn't get money from just people, but rather, in Bernie's case, it's been people and unions; in Hillary's it is corps, special interest groups, etc.  A vote in the senate is a vote in the senate; doesn't matter if it's the most populous state or the least populous state. &gt; Bernie Sanders consistently raises the least money of any Senator. Clinton raises the most money of any Senator.

For more context, you should probably mention that [Clinton's opponent in her 2000 Senate election spent 35% more than she did](http://www.opensecrets.org/races/summary.php?id=NYS1&amp;cycle=2000). Very true, that would have been good context. Sorry I missed that, it was a quick screencast. But apparently Sanders does raise the most in VT, by a lot. It just takes less money to win there. Vermont knows what Vermont wants. Are there many other politicians with a similar profile to Sanders, or do almost all of them depend on finances from big corporations like Clinton does?  This isn't money from corporations, it's money from individual donors--the list is just broken down by the employer of the donors.  But to answer your question, yes, any politician who is expected to get the presidential nomination will have a donor list like Hilary's, and someone campaigning for a smaller position, or someone who is campaigning for president but isn't expected to receive the nomination, will have a list like Bernie's. [This compares the two's top contributors.](http://i.imgur.com/GCOVi0J.png) This is extremely telling. One is dependent on multinational corporations and banks while the other is almost entirely funded by workers unions. Priorities follow the money... Whats the deal with U of C donating $300,000 I wonder.  I wondered the same thing. Isn't it publicly funded? I don't understand how/why this would happen The school administrators want Hillary so she can continue federal subsidization of student loans so UoC schools can keep charging 40k+ a year and passing the profits back to the admins Don't you mean the "not for profits"? Little dishonest to use out of state pricing, isn't it? It's  $14k for tuition for residents. Yeah, but that's how much room and board costs, too. Throw in books and other essentials, you're looking at $34,500 a year, for PUBLIC school. That's a crime. 

http://admission.universityofcalifornia.edu/paying-for-uc/tuition-and-cost/ This is just an accounting of where the donors work when they donated. The UC system just happens to be a rather large employer of fairly well-to-do liberals.  Oh wait nm, it was donated by individuals. Makes sense now It just means that people associated with the U of C donated money, not he university itself. 

[This is the full list of people associated with the university who donated money](https://www.opensecrets.org/usearch/?q=university+of+california&amp;cx=010677907462955562473%3Anlldkv0jvam&amp;cof=FORID%3A11) All of that is from people (professors, staff, etc.) who listed their employer as the U of C. There is $0 money that the institution gave. Aha! Thank you! Had this same question. Check out this [relevant article](http://www.dailycal.org/2012/11/06/uc-affiliates-top-donor-to-the-obama-campaign/) about U of C donations to the Obama campaign totalling over $1 mil. Wasn't that about the same amount of money she got for speaking there recently? I am not disagreeing with your assertion. Howver, look at the size of the donations. The list only shows the top donors and maybe those unions and workers groups also give to Hillary and maybe they even give more than to Bernies Sanders but it just doesn't make the top of the list. That's  true. But it's also important to note who's  not funding Bernie Sanders. You don't see large corporations funding him like they do Clinton. Therefore it's  safer to say they won't  be able to shape his opinion. Contrarily, one is dependent on *individual donors* from those multinational corporations, while the other is almost entirely funded by the collective decisions of the unions.

Further, we don't have data in that chart showing that all of the donors supporting Sanders are also supporting Clinton. Sanders' highest donors are less than half of Clinton's lowest on the list.

Without significantly more data, these are simply two different lists and we're comparing apples and oranges. We only know that Clinton is more effective at raising large sums of money than Sanders. Anything more that we try to take out of this is just a misinterpretation of data.  &gt; One is dependent on multinational corporations and banks while the other is almost entirely funded by workers unions. 

No, this is not what the chart says.  Though it's certainly what the people who always post this chart want you to believe.

Clinton received that money from **individual people** who work for those companies. Note the column at the top telling you that these are contributions from individuals. Clinton ran two Senate campaigns in New York, where people who work for banks were her constituents. She also ran a year-long national presidential campaign.

Sanders, on the other hand, gets more of his money from **political action committees** and less from individual people. He's also only ever run in tiny, inexpensive Vermont.

To further break it down:

The contributions are broken down into two columns: individuals and PACs.

The money from individuals comes from individual people. When you make a contribution, you must disclose your employer. The individual contributions counted in these columns are from individuals who were employed by those companies. Clinton ran two Senate campaigns in New York, where individuals who work for banks were among her constituents. This is not money from corporations.

The money from PACs is from political action committees set up by corporations or unions that are funded directly by the corporation/union.

Clinton has received a lot of contributions from people who work for big companies, which is unsurprising given that she ran two expensive senate campaigns in the state where many of these companies are headquartered (and where most of their employees live) and a year-long presidential campaign. Clinton has actually received a higher percentage of her contributions from individual donors than Sanders has.

Open Secrets has amazing data. It's just a shame how often it gets misused to dishonestly promote an agenda.
 So you honestly think that hundreds of employees at the biggest banks in the country just happened to independently decide to donate to Hilary Clinton - a democratic candidate with no openly avowed dedication to supporting their business - and drove their companies to the top of their donor list? That doesn't register as even a little bit suspicious to you? The fact that the only large companies in NY or NYC who made this list are telecommunications and finance - two industries subject to a lot of federal financial and trade regulation - and none of the other huge companies in that state doesn't ring any alarm bells for you? All the while, Clinton has been offering increasing lip service against big financial institutions but for some reason the Wall Street types continue to support her, doesn't seem like talking out of both sides of her mouth to you?

Like the other commenter said; you're either extremely naive or deceptive. And law. DLA Piper, Skadden Arps, Kirkland are all AMLaw 50 firms. Or maybe, just maybe, people give money to the candidates who support their interests. Damn, Hillary loves the shit outa banking policy.  You're  completely right. It's  interesting to see how a candidate's  "views" are shaped by their donors.  Or when a candidate's platform says one thing while where their money comes from says the opposite. Hillary's platform says one thing and her votes in Congress say the opposite.  Alternatively, people are throwing their money behind the candidate who they think will win. Big companies might consider it a waste to drop a billion dollars on Sanders. Thanks a lot for this. Reddit is already pretty pro-Bernie but I think concrete numbers like this help people understand more of what he's about, and where he's coming from. Check out /r/SandersForPresident. There's a lot of data that shows how he differs from Clinton. It's  your take on the data of whether he is a better candidate or not. WOW! Hillary Clinton gets all of that money from the University of CA and she doesn't support the free education act.... The school is in it for the money and they are actively lobbying against free education. &gt; The school is in it for the money and they are actively lobbying against free education.

You seem surprised.  she doesn't get it from the university. The data is aggregated by the employers of the donors &gt; CITI Group $782,327

Aren't there laws against any single group/individual donating more than a certain amount of money? The way that this instance works is that individualf who work for CITI Group cumulatively gave that amount of money. At least, that's how I've seen it explained every time this image is posted and somebody inevitably asks your question.  I wonder why law firms have been making contributions to Hillary's campaign. They employ lobbyists whose jobs are to influence politicians on behalf of their clients. Here's an article on how Akin, Gump is trying to curry favor with Clinton 2016: http://thehill.com/business-a-lobbying/business-a-lobbying/242766-at-k-streets-no-1-lobby-shop-ties-to-clinton-run-deep Those are large super firms that handle sophisticated corporate transactions and commercial litigation. Big business needs big law.  Where does Rand Paul get his money from? Here you go! https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qWBoUPv51fg

In this screencast, I also spoke a bit about superpacs and undisclosed donors. Looks like he gets more from smaller businesses than larger ones. For some reason I like it. Feels like it speaks for leveling the playing field.  I know reddit doesn't like his policies but he is very genuine by congress' standards. you said that he does get a lot of Koch money through superPAC's but you showed no evidence of that. It might be true, but I mean, where is the evidence? That is exactly what campaign finance reformers are trying to fight against. We're pretty sure where this money is coming from, but loopholes let the massively wealthy flaunt the spirit of the law so they can keep their spending secret.

Look at the lengths funders go, and look at how hard we researchers have to work to try and understand who is funding elections: https://www.opensecrets.org/news/2014/01/koch-network-a-cartological-guide/ How do you categorize SuperPAC funded advertising as "in favor" of a particular candidate? Is both the campaign spending and content restricted only to the media markets aligned geographically to that legislator's district? Or are you presenting this data in such a way that it appears alongside a candidate even if the advertising generally targets any politician based on their stance on a particular issue?
Since the candidate can not legally coordinate with representatives of a SuperPAC, how are they responsible for this advertising? Also how can you even imply that it influences their decision-making in favor of donors while also pointing out that those donors are undisclosed?

Also, are you quantifying the costs of producing editorial media slanted in favor of or opposed to a particular candidate or issue as spending on behalf of a candidate? Or are you asserting that you should be able to spend millions influencing public perception on a campaign issue or politician if you own a talk show without it being seen as finances "contributed" to that campaign effort, but those who independently purchase airtime for commercials to broadcast their side of the argument are contributors of the non-complicit politician that aligns with their viewpoints?
 *Republican candidate gets campaign donations from good sources*

Let's question everything Also curious about this because the [Koch brothers said](http://www.cnn.com/2015/04/20/politics/2016-scott-walker-david-koch/)

&gt;"...let me be clear, I am not endorsing or supporting any candidate for president at this point in time," he said in a statement.

So the typical "Paul is in with the Koch brothers" argument doesn't work, at least right now. I'm interested to see who is actually supporting him. The Koch brothers have partnered themselves with Scott Walker in the past so I would assume they will back him in 2016. You'll never hear Bernie Sanders speak out against Tom Steyor, George Soros, and Michael Bloomberg, each who outspend  Charles and David Koch. Interesting point to make, but in my home state Vermont where Bernie Sanders is Senator,  Mike Bloomberg lobby-money is increasingly influencing our state elections, but sadly, Bernie Sanders turns a blind eye to the steering of local politics in Vermont by out-of-state Bloomberg money. You're a brave man to speak ill of Sanders on Reddit. Some politicians have publicly condemned the campaign finance system. _Retired_ politicians, who no longer fear losing their donors, broadly condemn it. But the current system has three obvious forms of lock-in:

1.  **Collective Action Problem**: Any politician who chooses not to work within the current system is dropping her gun first. Voluntary disarmament must be mutual. *Result*: Politicians cannot change their own behavior without losing their seats.
2. **The Fist of the 1%**: Any politician who tries to change the law faces opposition from the lobbying industry and from politicians who have gained power and success under the current system. *Result*: Politicians cannot change the law in the face of powerful opposition.
3. **Ignorance and Apathy**: Americans care about this issue, but hardly anyone realizes that it is a _hard requirement_ for the improvement of government. People like Lawrence Lessig are trying damn hard to change this, but I don't believe they're making much headway. *Result*: Upstarts cannot win elections campaigning on this issue.

Your tool could really help on the "Ignorance and Apathy" side, especially if journalists can use it to find stories, but I'm worried that targeted muckraking won't have much effect on the system itself. Do you have any thoughts on that, or on the other two issues?

(Disclosure: Sol is my co-worker, and I think this project is awesome.) Hi mysterious coworker (find me on Monday to tell me who you are)!

You bring up a lot of great points. I don't think this project alone is enough to bring the massive change the system needs, but I think that, in conjunction with other changes, it can make a big difference, and hopefully it can make it easier to make the other changes we need.

Many of the proposals from people who want to reform campaign finance aren't about getting money completely out of politics, but are about giving people who are powerless in the current environment the tools (money) they need to compete with a few massively wealthy people. 

Under those changes, politicians who were dependent on serving the regular, politically powerless people, would have the resources to compete with rich, vested interests. I'm hoping that when people understand more about what's actually happening, we will be in a better environment to accomplish the meaningful changes that will be necessary. &gt; Many of the proposals from people who want to reform campaign finance aren't about getting money completely out of politics, but are about giving people who are powerless in the current environment the tools (money) they need to compete with a few massively wealthy people. 

I think this is *key*, and I think a huge obstacle is how badly most people who are aware of money in politics being a big problem actually understand the nature of the problem.

Most people jump first to "politicians with more money win elections", which is actually somewhat untrue - if multiple candidates in a race all have more than enough money to run an effective campaign, having more money than another candidate gives some advantage but it's statistically a fairly small one.  It's far from decisive.  A better run campaign, or more effective message, will nearly always trump more money in that kind of situation.

After that, people also are aware of what most seem to think is a secondary problem, which is that contributors buy access or get what they want from elected officials - although people don't always understand that a lot of this is a mechanism of *selection* rather than direct pay-for-play.

What hardly any people think of, though, are things like this:

 - [The Wealth Primary](http://cos.livejournal.com/123909.html) (that's a blog post I wrote while working for John Bonifaz's campaign for secretary of state of MA in 2006, but the original blog is gone so that's my update on my personal blog).

 - How it skews a politician's outlook and work when such a large chunk of their day to day job is fundraising, personally.  How someone who spends many hours a week making phone calls asking for money is going to do a very different job than someone who spends all their time on legislation, committee meetings, constituent meetings, and other things that we imaging an elected legislator's job actually is.

 - How the need to spend much of their time fundraising actually turns a lot of people who away from even running.  People who would be great at the job, who have some experience working as staffers for elected officials and/or on campaigns, but who know that the job is half fundraising and that's not a job they want.

 - How it changes the tenor of a campaign when the candidate spends so much less time talking to voters door to door or at town hall type events, because they have to spend so much time fundraising.  This is much more salient in state and local elections, where candidates really could spend most of their campaign talking to voters if they didn't have to fundraise, but these kinds of campaigns are what build up the pool of likely candidates for governor or federal office.

So many people out there are fed up about how money corrupts politics, but are focused on solving the rather minor problem of duelling Senate candidates competing for who has more millions, rather than the things we really need to be focusing on, like the wealth primary.

This matters a lot, because these problems are different enough that they call for very different kinds of solutions.  While *some* things (like a Constitutional amendment undoing *Citizens United*) will help with all of it, many other measures are more targeted at the more important problems - and these are exactly the kinds of measures most people don't know enough to care about.

Edit: For people who clicked on it earlier, there was a stale link in my Wealth Primary post.  I fixed it.  This is a post I wrote exploring ways in which money distorts and corrupts politics, many of which a lot of people who aren't in politics don't usually think of:
http://bluemassgroup.com/2006/05/money-and-campaigns/ &gt; find me on Monday to tell me who you are

Lol this is reddit, no one can know who you are on reddit! Or even that you use reddit! &gt; but are about giving people who are powerless in the current environment the tools (money) they need to compete with a few massively wealthy people. 

BTW, these kinds of tools aren't just money.

When I grew up in Israel, for example, I remember during election season everyone would watch the regularly scheduled election broadcasts on TV, where each party could make their pitch.  Every party was allotted time based on how many votes they got in the previous election, not by raising money and buying time.  And even small parties got enough time to catch people's attention, since we were all watching the whole hour every time.

I'm not saying the exactly same system is suitable for the US, but you can imagine things along the same lines.  An independent nonpartisan debate series that was heavily promoted by the government, for example.  Or, like we do for ballot questions, a mailer from the state with a page submitted from each candidate running for office in your district, and having the TV stations cover those mailers extensively enough that people would be curious and open them when they got them.

Just brainstorming, I'm not sure how great these specific ideas are, but you get the point - it's not just money that we should be thinking about, it's more broadly about how we can give candidates with fewer resources (or wealthy supporters) real access to the election process. Senator Dianne Feinstein? Sorry I didn't get to this, and now my son is asleep in the next room so I can't do a screencast. This didn't have nearly as many votes a few hours ago, otherwise I would have done it before I finished.

I'll definitely go through Dianne Feinstein in two weeks when I do the part 2. Thanks for acknowledging this; Reddit tends to get salty when a highly upvoted comment is ignored.

For those itching to find out about Feinstein's campaign finances, you can do your own digging [here](https://www.opensecrets.org/politicians/summary.php?cid=N00007364&amp;cycle=2014), although you won't have Mr. Kahn succinctly explaining it to you. I'd also like to see where this blood sucking, real-life Dolores Umbridge gets funding from. I fucking hate this lady. As a Californian, I would also like to know where the Congressional embodiment of evil that represents my state gets her funding.  http://imgur.com/L1xJuJK

Source: Greenhouse extension 2.1 for chrome Feinstein gets her funds from all her husbands friends in business that hope to get sweetheart deals on government spending. this woman and her husband have been plundering California for years.   As your brother from the east coast would you mind giving a quick one or two liner as to why she is so evil? Also, we have a guy famous in the RI/MA area called Allen Shawn Feinstein. I wonder if there's a distant relation. Also, who's Dolores Umbridge? haha sorry for all the questions Dolores Umbridge = mega bitch headmaster from the Harry Potter series. Feinstein just supports stupid things for stupid reasons. The whole universal spying apparatus comes to mind. What impact do you think this will have on the  general public? People have been worried about money in politics forever. I saw one of Bernie Sanders old speeches from the 80's and he was complaining about the influence of money in politics.

I think people don't realize how much worse the problem has become. Back in 1992, Clinton only raised 33 million to win the presidential election. Now, we're estimating that the presidential candidates will raise around $2 billion each. The scope of what's going on is so much more than it used to be. It seems quaint that we used to be worried about $33 million.

I'm hoping that people and journalists can use this tool to get an accurate picture about what's going on, as opposed to the vague ideas that there are bad things going on with money in politics, no different than it's been in the past. Explain like I'm 5 what 2 billion dollars is spent on in an election?  If I say Just Do IT, what do you think of? If I say Yes We Can, what do you think of? Spend 1b(about a dozen corporations spend over 1b a year in branding costs) and you can have excellent branding and name recognition just like these 2 examples. Then you have an ever growing ground game that has nearly no limit in expenses(driving granny to the poll). Money in the pot can go towards other things later. 

Finally, a lot of the 2b isn't from single bilionaires/corporations but rather comes in the form of small donations from individual donors. The mere act of getting these people to donate radically increases their likelihood of voting for you and for being a proponent for you throughout their social network. 

 "Just Do It": [Shia Leboeuf](http://youtu.be/nuHfVn_cfHU)

"Yes We Can": [Bob the Builder](http://youtu.be/vD0vHZxAmso)


I'm roughly 65% serious about that.  I read the Shia Leboeuf quote screaming... when do you think that will stop? if you're tired of starting over... STOP. GIVING. UP

\v(o_o)v/ *flex pose* 3b fundraising target incoming I played those at the same time... and [it is basically awesome.](http://youtubedoubler.com/fEBJ) What is the alternative to pols spending crazy stupid piles of cash?  Would Cspan and NPR be utilized to get their message out?  Would that be enough?

I am a libertarian and have to break with my party on political spending.  Money isn't speech, corporations aren't people, and the politicians will sell our freedom down the river to collect enough cash to run for election.  It has to stop. The alternative was the [Presidential Campaign Fund.](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Presidential_election_campaign_fund_checkoff) From the time it was created to 2008, every major candidate had taken the public funding option. Barack Obama didn't and won with a ton of money left over. Now it's for all intents and purposes dead.

Money is speech in that it buys the stage from which the speech is given. Contributions to campaigns can (and are) limited but you can't legally stop someone from buying airtime to express their political opinion. 

Also, corporate personhood has nothing to do with campaign finance law. Corporations are allowed to contribute to PACs because legally speaking, they're entities created to represent the financial interests of their shareholders. If you deny the shareholders' representative the ability to express a political view, you're denying the shareholders that right by proxy. 

There's really no good way to fix campaign finance without destroying the letter and intent of the First Amendment. But aren't shareholders getting to opportunity to speak twice? Once through their own selves and once through the corporation they have a stake in? Also aren't you speaking much much louder with $50 million dollars than you are with a reddit post?  In my opinion buying the stage on which to speak isn't the same as expressing your political opinion when your stage blasts it straight to the ear holes of a politician while another's gets read by an intern and politely discarded.  Patty Murray and Maria Cantwell? Here is Patty Murray! https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=s2__ivJSzb4 What is Scott Walker doing in terms of fundraising?   Scott Walker is like Jeb Bush, we have no idea what he's doing.

Or rather, we know that people affiliated with him are out raising millions of dollars, but they don't need to report that yet to the FEC. Check out this tweet: https://twitter.com/wisvoter/status/600690498739826688 What's my boy Jeb Bush up to? I am SO GLAD you asked this question!

I, and the rest of the American people, have no clue what Jeb Bush is up to. Even though we all know he's running for president, he hasn't filed any statement of candidacy with the FEC, and so he hasn't disclosed any money he's raised.

There are currently complaints to the FEC right now, accusing a number of potential presidential candidates, including Jeb Bush, of violating FEC regulations by fundraising but not announcing themselves as candidates / disclosing what they're doing.

Here's a politico article about it: http://www.politico.com/story/2015/03/fec-complaint-jeb-bush-rick-santorum-scott-walker-martin-omalley-116552.html

Here's a perfect example of how politicians are using every loophole in the law, which has already been weakened to a pitiful state, to raise an unprecedented amount of money from the tiniest fraction of extremely wealthy individuals. What can I do about this? Anything?  Based on my experience, I'd say bend over and think of a pleasant memory. Maybe we like rough, unlubed ass fucking?

Or maybe I've convinced myself I do... I at least want a courtesy spit. What happened to the courtesy reach around?  Chivalry is dead, that's what happened. You've just been conditioned over the years to like it That's kind of hot. Don't vote for him for a start. Hillary did it for a couple of years and nobody gives a shit. I'd bet folding money that it's from many of the same groups as Jeb too.  Look up the Wolf-PAC, they are working to get Citizens United overturned. To both eliminate the ruling that donations are a firm of free speech and that corporations are considered people. So it appears that they're doing the same thing Hillary did.   Could you show me from whom Sen. Ron Wyden and Sen. Jeff Merkley get their money? Here's Ron Wyden: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qLIIunVf8yA&amp;feature=youtu.be

To answer the below question, yes, seems like there have been some interesting changes from security contractors recently! Oregonian checking in. Would love to see how our senators are getting funded.  Go Beavs I"d like to see how much Wyden has traditionally got from national security contractors and if that's changed over the past 10 years. How about ol' Mitch McConnel? Here is Mitch McConnell! https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_5n2oOtiyZI How about Bobby Jindal?  I would love to see this! Please! I've been watching this dude destroy my state since he was our DHH secretary. Rep. Scott Garrett (NJ-5)? Here you go! https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9SOkCyvfTEg

Looks like the first few seconds are blank space, but skip to five seconds and you will be good to go! Watching you use this tool compared to the way I'm trying to find the data makes me want access to your tool. Sites like opensecrets.org are great, but the data you would logically seek from point A to point B simply doesn't flow as well. 

Great project.

 are you saying that watching that video of him made you horny? I wonder where my girl, Elizabeth Warren, gets her funding from? Here you go, Elizabeth Warren! https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qifp0i0Zcb4 This is coming late, but earlier you mentioned that since Jeb did not officially file, his details are not available. Didn't Elizabeth say she was not running for presidency? How are her details available? This is from her Senate campaign, not any presidential campaign.

Jeb Bush has never run for federal office, so he has no other historical campaigns to look at. How exactly are you categorizing Ideology/Single Issue contributions?   Holy crap, one of Elizabeth Warren's parents is on this AMA! Ha, ok, I'll do a visualization for her next! You think one of her parents has the name "bakbakgoesherthroat"? You never know, I'm not one to judge. Where does the Texas Sen. Ted Cruz get his money? I heard the reasoning behind his tweet about net neutrality was because of a relatively small donation from Time Warner(somewhere around 40k).

 Does U.S. Rep. Bill Shuster (R-9th) of Pennsylvania get a lot of money from transportation lobbies? Yes, he gets more money from transportation than I have ever seen any other candidate get from transportation!

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QJT7MCx035U How many Rep.s and Sen.s who chair committees get their primary contributions from industries overseen by the committees they chair? Trying to find out just how deep the regulatory capture is going? For background, as a general rule Reps often pursue positions on committees that are of greater import to their constituents and also are more likely to receive donations from associated industries. 

EXAMPLE:

A senior congressman from southern Mississippi Chairs the sea-power subcommittee, promoting a larger navy which in turn would create and protect jobs for the constituents in his district This rep is facing a tough reelection fight because of the changing political landscape and southern ship building unions and magnates who prefer to have someone with similar interests at heart at the head of the committee support and give money to him. A new rep, even if he had the same priorities, would not have the seniority or sway to snag that position and it would instead likely go to a different shipbuilding district.

This example actually played out in 2010, when Gene Taylor lost to Steve Palazzo to represent Southern Mississippi, and Forbes (VA) took over the helm of the Seapower Subcommittee. 
 Thanks, for this! Btw, CSX is freight rail. Have you received any threats due to the nature of your work? Not yet. If you're paranoid enough to add a [warrant canary](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Warrant_canary) I'd probably add a checker to my rss feeds, though you might think it's unnecessary I have never heard of nor have I seen this. This is certainly the most bittersweet thing I have seen come from the patriot act.

A loophole... *for* the people? Way cool. I noticed reddit is on the list of companies that have one, where can we see it? https://canarywatch.org/


Reddit's is [once per year, in the transparency report](https://www.reddit.com/wiki/transparency/2014#wiki_government_content_removal_requests) Have you looked into your own member of Congress? Who do they take money from? Do you feel like they represent constituents like yourself or the corporations and lobbyists that give them the big bucks? Thanks for this question, here you go! https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JiZ3D-Nh5U8 This is fantastic. Thank you! I'm backing the Kickstarter! How bout our guy Al Franken? He's not your guy, pal. in not your pal, buddy.  Can you tell me what Sherrod Brown (OH) is doing? And as another Ohioan: John Boehner? What's up with Jim Inhofe? Obviously backed up by oil money (hates our planet) but any others I should know about?  I believe Vice did a piece linking him to the evangelical Americans in Uganda, and their strong support for recently repealed anti gay laws. I actually ctrl+f'd "Inhofe" knowing someone would bring him up. He is a real grade A quality gobshite of the highest order. Damn I hate that man, op please answer this one!
. What can you tell me about chris christie? You asked for senators and congressman but in my state he's the most polarized figure. There any insight you can provide on how corrupt the guy is? I'd love to see Rick Scott actually. He seems insanely corrupt from what I've read. I second your interest. One thing that I've been aware of and that bothers me is that he owns/owned (his wife know owns it, iirc) Solantic health and wanted mandatory drug testing for welfare recipients.

Forget the political angle on that. How much does he stand to profit from the policy? It's old news, I know. It's still very bothersome to me.

TL;DR: I don't like Rick Scott. I think he gets money from Medicare scams and self-tailored policies. My tool only looks at federal data for now, although it's going to be open source, so we could put it on top of state data, or data from other countries in the future.

Chris Christie seems pretty corrupt to me, even if you assume he's done nothing technically illegal. Withholding Sandy aid money to people who were his political enemies, spending millions of dollars of taxpayer money on a commercial glorifying his family while doing very little for New Jersey, all these are legal things he's done which seem pretty corrupt to me. A little bit off-topic: your last name, is it related to the "Khan" name, but just spelled differently? Or is it entirely related to "Khan"? No worries! The typical Jewish way to spell the name is Kahn, and in other countries and cultures, it's more common to spell it Khan. I'm not sure if there is an original basis for the name that predates all the individual spellings of it. So which one are you? Salman khan, or Solomon Kahn? Jared Polis? Lamar Alexander, Jim Tracy, Marsha Blackburn, please? How about Ben Carson?

Edit: Thanks for doing this btw, hope it becomes a hit. Just donated! Where does Obama get his money from? 
What about Diane Feinstein? Anything dirty on Tom Cotton?
Bernie Sanders? 
Rand Paul?
Hillary Clinton?  I second Tom Cotton. I would LOVE to know where his money comes from  Kind of off topic to why you're here...but,

What's working with the data team like at paperless post?  I'm just getting into Python and love it! We also just used PP to send out post wedding party invites and I think that is a great site.  So glad you liked using Paperless Post for your wedding!

Paperless Post is a great company to work at, and the data team is awesome. Full disclosure, I run the team, so I am biased. But, we're hiring for multiple data roles, so if you have data skills, you should come in, meet us, and form your own opinions! how often do you get mistaken for Sal Khan from Khan Academy  Over email, once or twice a year. In person, never. This doesn't have anything to do with your great new app, I hope you don't mind.  I'm about to receive my PhD in math, but don't want to continue in academia after graduating.  Big data is clearly the wave of the future and I would love to get into it, but my research now is in abstract topology and not relevant.  I do have programming experience, but not much.  I have no doubt that I could learn what I need quickly, but I'm worried employers would just see overpriced and underexperienced.

My question is, how seriously would a resume like that be taken in your field?  Is it worth trying for this career jump? It's really tough to find good data people. If you can program, have a solid background in math, and understand the basics of business, it should be straightforward to find a job.

I highly advise doing public side projects. What's up in Arkansas?  What about Corey Booker? Senator from NJ? Really interested to see Senator John McCain, and Senator Pat Toomey (PA). 
  
Also, what are some of the more surprising/ironic donations you've come across?  What about Al Franken? What is the most pronounced find in the data that shows the link between donations and legislation? Or if you need just one, Diane feinstein? Scott Walker. Who funds him? Libertarian presidential candidate Gov. Gary Johnson ? Rep Zoe Lofgren? How about Lamar Alexander of Tennessee? Where does his funding come from? for South Dakota; where do Kristi Noem and John Thune get their palms greased? Where does Senator Chuck Schumer (NY) get his money from? As someone who seems honest but is the second highest Democrat in the Senate I'd love to see who he had to get money from (if anyone) to get to the top.

Also if you can, Steve Israel (NY-3) just because I know nothing about him. I second Schumer. Although, I would not call him honest! I would be very curious as well. How does Justin Amash get his money? Oh, neat!

How about Darrell Issa (CA 49)?
 Here you go! https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SSNwouAtLVA Rep. Paul Cook (CA-8)? Do you do acting Governors? If so Andrew Cuomo? I live in Ohio, so what about our Republican Governor John Kasich? He keeps hinting at a 2016 run for president, but he won't straight out say yay or nay. Senator Tom Carper (DE)? Rob Portman? 

Also thanks so much for your educational videos! Saved me many a time!  I live in Westchester County, New York. So I would like to know who funds my senator (Kirsten Gillibrand) and representative (Sean Patrick Maloney)?

Thank you so much for doing this public service. How can we find out about other countries' politicians? I am in Canada. 

Also: anybody out there who DIDN'T receive any dubious contributions? Seems like it's just par for the course... What about Rand Paul, Marco Rubio, and Hillary Clinton?  Thanks for doing this AMA! Where does Joe Heck, Nevada's 3rd District, get his money? Rep Mike Doyle? (PA-14) Pat McCrory, North Carolina governor please? US representative Ed Royce from California. Who give him the most money? Please show us Rand Paul? Is a similar thing going in Canada?
Why isn't Obama doing something about this? Thanks so much for doing this! So long as the laws allow for an absurd amplification of speech through money, the public absolutely needs to know who is donating to their politicians' campaigns. 

I'm curious if you can tell me more about who contributes to Senator Sherrod Brown's (D-OH) campaigns? Although not the most well known member of the senate, his stances on labor make him something of a personal hero to me. How about Chris Collins of New York's 27th? Where does Thad Cochran receive his money from? How do you get this information? Is it publicly available or do you have special means of some sort? Would it be possible to get a visualization of the PM of Canada Stephen Harper and the current Premier of Ontario Kathleen Wynne? Thanks in advance Unfortunately, this is currently for US only, but I will be happy to help anyone who wants to port this over to Canadian data! How about a visualisation of Orrin Hatch fundraising? Any chance in expanding this work and coupling it to their voting history? Yes! That is in the pipeline! I live in Madison Wi and am not the biggest fan of Scott Walker. Lots of people around here say the Koch brothers funded him excusivly in 2010. Do you have a visualization of his fundraising and may percentages of the Koch brothers compared to other sources? What was working with Macaulay Culkin like in Party Monster?  He bought me my first pack of cigarettes, which I had to smoke as the character.

And strangely, I have since met the true-life person that he was portraying in PARTY MONSTER - a guy named Michael Alig - he just got out of prison for the murder in that film.  Kevin McCallister bought your first pack of cigarettes. 

So fucking metal. Stolen from Buzz's secret chest Woof... What is your favorite untrue rumor you have heard spread about you?  Hmmm.

Well, there's always - I never can really pick one. But the one that *never* goes away, and it's never been my favorite, is that I had a rib removed.

The other one is even more strange, just the idea that people don't - it's not so much a rumor, the idea that people will never really know or understand me from afar. 

It's a one-dimensional thing. Sometimes people treat me like I'm a cartoon character, or I'm something that isn't a real person, and they don't realize that I'm actually a human being.

Maybe that's not one of the worst ones, but someone has to have some sort of emotions to be an artist  in the first place.

Or at least *pretend* that I do, when it comes to it.  When I was in the 6th grade a kid was wearing one of your t-shirts, and the librarian sent him to the office and gave us a speech about how you threw out a bag full of puppies before a show and refused to play until the crowd killed the puppies.
 I heard this one, but it was only one puppy. I like the bag full of puppies twist though. Depends on the tour budget I guess! He threw a bag full of baby pandas at the height of his career. Ha, I was around the same age when someone told me he stuck a back stage key up a puppies ass and threw it to the crowd who ripped it apart looking for the key. Whoever even came up with the idea has to be a hundred times more fucked up than Manson. The combined rumors made me laugh. MM throwing a bag full of puppies to the crowd, telling them one has a key inside it. They tear the puppies to shreds and nobody finds anything. Just then, MM turns his back to the crowd and shits all over the stage, announcing it was in him the whole time. The crowd rushes up and scrambles in a pile on the stage, writhing in his shit as they wrestle for the key. ...The Aristocrats! I had a teacher do a similar thing. Except she said that he burned a living person...like, an actual human being...on a cross onstage.  She said the person died, and then they did a satanic ritual over the dead body to make sure the person went to hell. 

I was only 10, but I remember thinking, "I'm pretty sure you can't just kill someone on stage..." &gt; I was only 10, but I remember thinking, "I'm pretty sure you can't just kill someone on stage..."

You'll like this bit by [Patton Oswalt](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9PxQWhC_qSY). 

&gt; You know how, when you're growing up, up to a certain point no matter what an adult says, it's just gospel? It's just "well, an adult said it, it must be true." And then there's that first thing where you go "I think that's fucking bullshit." It's the media against shock rockers. 

Before Manson, it was ozzie Osborne, before ozzie it was Alice Cooper. 

People like to have a scapegoat to blame.  I personally like the rumour that when you were younger you were Kevin's best friend on The Wonder Years. Yeah.  Paul.   &gt; It's a one-dimensional thing. Sometimes people treat me like I'm a cartoon character

Blame Clone High? ;)
http://imgur.com/esNTx1E ...which he actually voiced himself in :) That rumor about the rib is actually 2 parts:

* 1) You removed one of your ribs.

* 2) You sucked on your own dick.

If not the first, is the second part true? Joe Rogan talked about guys that could blow themselves in one of his stand ups. He said he ran into Ron Jeremy and the question came up about whether or not he could still do it. Ron patted his gut and said this belly got in the way. Joe's reaction was priceless. He was floored. Here is a guy that could suck his own dick, supposedly every man's dream, and he decided sandwiches were better. lol I've heard the ability to suck your own dick is more like sucking dick than getting your dick sucked Could you do it after getting a local anesthetic at the dentist? That way it would feel like getting your dick sucked, but not like sucking dick. Just brainstorming here guys. 90s kid, can confirm.

The other biggie was that he was in Wonder Years. Thinking back on those days, I was in middle school and it's truly impressive how that rumor was able to become so widespread without the internet.  I'm pretty sure that everyone in the world had at least one sketchy cousin that told them that you had ribs removed so you could suck your own dick.

Thanks for answering that one. When life gets to be too much, what or where is your happy place? I'd say with Lily White, my cat. When I'm sad, or if I just need alone time, she'll come up to me, and she knows, and she'll usually lie on my head. Or she'll come up and meow, like she did just now - like she knows it's dinner time. 

But I like to distract myself by watching movies. It takes my mind out of my own world, and puts it somewhere else. And it's helpful for me. Thank you so much and I love this answer! &lt;3 Lily White is a good name for a cat. Damn.  My cats names all suck With a username like poop_giggle, I'd really think it be quite the opposite. I get lucky sometimes. What was it like collaborating with Eminem on the remix of The Way I Am? I actually only collaborated with Danny Lohner, the guy who did the remix. I didn't physically work with Eminem in the studio. But I was in his video though, and I was only there for about 30 minutes, for the making of the video. I walked in, and walked back out. But we performed onstage a couple times. I haven't seen him in many years.  Okay I have to ask, what is your opinion of Eminem?  Oh cool! Thanks for hanging out with us!

What's something you wish more people knew about you? Less. 

*Hehehe.* *He says while doing an AMA*, lol Are you and Trent Reznor cool? I know *I'm* cool.

I mean, are you asking are we cool with each other?

I mean, I don't have a problem with him. I have a problem with some of the things he's done to me in my career. But at the same time, I have to give him credit where credit is due, as being inspiration when I was starting out and giving me my break.

But we're not at odds with each other. I just don't have interest in being friends anymore.  Can anyone shed some light on what exactly he is referencing here?  As posted below, the lyrics to Starfuckers Inc. are essentially about the situation. Essentially Trent signed MM to his label (Nothing) back in the day and helped to distribute MM's music. I can't remember who talked shit first but they had a falling out, Trent basically felt that MM wouldn't have happened without him, made a big fuss, MM got mad because his "credibility" took a hit (so to speak) and distanced himself from Trent.

That's a really, really glossed over version, and really, its been a long time since I've thought about it so apologies for the lack of detail but that's it in a nutshell. Basically power trips and ego  games between star musicians of a similar genre, nothing too earth-shattering here and I say that as a fan of both artists.

EDIT: I believe I was incorrect about the origin of the lyrics for Starfuckers, Inc. As corrected below, it likely was about Courtney Love, I just didn't remember correctly. Everything else is generally correct to the best of my knowledge, and I apologize for unintentionally contributing misinformation. I can honestly say I've always thought it was about the MM situation until I was corrected. He also produced Manson's greatest album.  Manson's personality and vocals undoubtedly had a huge impact on his success in the 90s, but without Reznor and Twiggy/White it wouldn't have meant as much.  ICP can sell shit albums with facepaint.  Those guys elevated the songwriting of Manson's career and made legitimately great music out of it. Found a pic of these dudes hanging out. Bonus [Jon Stewart](http://i.imgur.com/gawKPq1.jpg)? If starfuckers is about their falling out, then why is MM in the music video? You would assume he wouldn't want to From a while ago, but I found [this](http://www.rollingstone.com/music/news/trent-reznor-says-marilyn-manson-has-become-a-dopey-clown-20090602) [deleted] Well played, bot. Well played. Do you plan on writing a new book anytime soon (or releasing Holy Wood)? Thanks! Both.

In one answer. YES!!!!!!! Any cool stories about The Matrix set? I never went on the Matrix set! I do recall meeting the Wachowskis that directed it, and they had me into their strange office-building that they were working out of, and it seemed very much like something that would be in a movie. And I'd not seen the movie. And they asked if they could put "Rock is Dead" in the original one, and the timing when the video came out, there were clips in the film of Keanu wearing a trenchcoat with a gun, and then Columbine happened, and we all know how *that* turned out... And then ironically this year, Keanu Reeves comes back this year, with JOHN WICK, also gun-oriented, and put my song "Killing Strangers" in the film twice. So I think that sometimes, once again, life comes around full-circle. And one door was closed, and so you throw a rock through a different window, I decided.  Your interview in Bowling for Columbine was very eloquently spoken and succinct. It is of my opinion that it is still very applicable to similar tragedies happening even today. 

Since its been 15 years and you were at the helm of the blame, what is your opinion on the handling of mass shootings today compared to that of the past? For instance, there has been a noticeable shift of the blame from music to video games to mental illness. Also the need to concentrate on the killers instead of the victims. Would you say that anything has changed?

Thank you!

Edit: link to interview. 

http://youtu.be/1NOFSOeOBsk "I wouldn't say a single word to them, I would listen to what they have to say. Because thats what no one did" - One of the best quotes from Manson, and one of the best lines in that movie. Someone asked if I would do anything differently looking back on my career: I probably would've been a little less lenient with the way I handled some of the people who betrayed me in the music business. I would have ruled more with an iron fist. But that would have not led me to where I am now, where I have a greater sense of control. So it really frees ambition, to be back in the spot where I have total control over what happens - from the music happens, to recording it, there was a period at my last record label where when I would control the music, I would be record the music that I wanted, but when they got their hands on it, the way they treated it as a product wasn't the way I would've treated it. I probably should've beaten some people about it. But I'm glad to be where I am now.  Not a frequent listener of your music but I'm a fan of you as a person. I've seen a couple interviews with you and I was surprised how intelligent you are, and I mean that in the least offensive way.  I saw an interview MM did after the movie Bowling for Columbine came out. He specifically says how offensive it is when people would say they were "surprised he's intelligent." His whole bit in Bowling for Columbine was pretty great. The media really tried to demonize him, but his interviews were really eloquent and thoughtful. I've gotta say I'm a fan too.  I remember thinking that his bit on Bowling for Columbine stood out like a sore thumb in that he was the only intelligent person speaking amidst a sea of morons. "Manson. Manson would be another person who's a hero. The music he's created over the years, I don't really listen to it, but the fact that he's making it, I respect that."- JM2845
 I was one of those kids that was more interested in what bark was made out of Yea, before listening to his music and seeing his interviews, I definitely had fallen into the trap of believing what the media said about him. Then I found out he was the opposite.  Your watercolour artwork is amazing - how did you get into using watercolours as your preferred medium? Any specific artistic influences? I started using watercolors when I was recording "Mechanical Animals" one night when I had some time off in the studio. I was waiting for something else to be recorded. I went to the drugstore, I just purchased a kid's set of watercolors, then started painting. And I found it to be a calming thing for me when I couldn't get my creativity out musically, I was able to paint. And that just became part of my life. I use watercolors because they remind me of stains, like a bloodstain. And I think influences, I would say, Egon Scheille and Salvador Dali and Marcel Duchamp. All 3 for different reasons.  Imagine being the clerk and Marilyn Manson walks in to buy a kids watercolor set. That is awesome! Would you ever release a full acoustic-only album, whether covers or new songs, even if just online releases? Your voice works beautifully alongside an acoustic guitar.  I've found a bunch of old recordings form when I was making "Holy Wood", I was rehearsing for the album, and I was doing a bunch of different covers and John Lennon songs and Elton John, just various Johnny Cash, and assorted things, the Doors also, things that I could use to just warm up my voice. And I think my voice was really *raw* at that time, because I think the physical stress I was putting on myself (and mentally) when I was making that record. But that is my favorite record, "Holy Wood," it's one of my favorite moments of music, and it does have a lot of moments. So yes, I think there will be some things dug out of the past when we get to that point. But I like doing things acoustically. I actually like to - I'm not afraid to sing in front of other people with a microphone, acoustically, which was something I was shy to do in the past. I would never want to have people in the studio, I would want to sit in the sound booth. But now I don't have a problem with it at all. In fact, I wouldn't mind performing live acoustically as well. I even crashed some innocent strangers' bachelorette party karaoke a few weeks ago! I don't know if they wanted a concert or not, but they got it.  AMA Request: the innocent stranger bachelorette. [deleted] Hi Marilyn,  I loved the photos with you and your father, they were brilliant and funny and touching.  I wondered how hard was it for them (your parents ) to accept your image, the gothic look you have and the rumors or if it was something that came easy to them?  Well, my mother (when she was alive and when I was growing up) LOVED Elvis. So that was probably the inspiration behind me dying my hair black, in some way.

My father wanted me to follow his footsteps, and become a salesman.

But after he saw that I was following my dreams, from writing to singing, he loved it. And also, he loved hanging around because then he could hit on girls.  You're a GREAT salesman [Here are a few photos of Marilyn and his father, Hugh](http://mashable.com/2015/03/03/marilyn-manson-dad/). Who are some artists that you would like to collaborate with? I have some plans to do more work with Shooter Jennings. He and I recorded for his album a cover of David Bowie's "Cat People," and we also wanna do some more music together. I did a couple songs with Johnny Depp recently before he left to go to Australia. And I plan on starting, maybe this week or next week when I've got some time, with starting with Twiggy on going back to the core of where Marilyn Manson started. And there's a strong possibility of doing something with Billy Corgan, while we're out on the road together. And Jonathan Davis from KORN and I plan on doing something together.  Next year Antichrist Superstar turns 20.  This was a landmark album.  Is there any chance of a concert where you perform this album in it's entirety?

Thanks for all the music &amp; clever lyrics over the years. Yeah, Twiggy and I were just talking about that a few days ago.

I think that might be something we'd really want to do.

I've always really enjoyed that time. The idea of doing that, even when we first put the album out, we played nearly all of it, back in 1996. So I think that there's a very strong possibility that that's going to happen.   It's so hard to describe to younger people that missed that era the amount of effort and theatrics you put into your shows. Ozzfest right after that album came out you played Shoreline and it was the best performance I've seen to this day. I imagine it being like someone trying to describe Pink Floyd The Wall tour. I just really wanted to say thank you.  i wasnt there for that show :( but i saw MM at ozzfest some years later where he had nazi women with rubber vaginas on marching around stage

at one point he laid one of them down and shoved the microphone into the rubber vagina and screamed at her stomach to sing

shit was magical I'm a huge fan of your work... and your makeup! Mind sharing your go-to products? Sure!

One thing I do when I do my makeup is  I use my fingers a lot. And I can do my own makeup probably in less than 5 minutes, depending on what type of makeup I'm doing. I usually use a combination between M.A.C. and AquaColor and Makeup For Ever. And Christian Dior. 

I usually use Christian Dior foundation, and AquaColor blue-whatever, and then when it comes to black, I like to use a mixture of different things.

But I like to try to use things that stay put, and I find that Makeup For Ever does a pretty solid job of that. So does M.A.C., for different things.
 You need to do a MAC collection. I'd buy the shit out that. I'm gonna start buying these lines because I know it must have some staying power for you to wear it, being under hot spotlights and all.

EDIT: Also, it would be kinda neat if you were their spokesperson. [You may be onto something](http://i.imgur.com/AbyYGBG.jpg) Marilyn Manson on a makeup commercial would be amazing.  Maybe he's born with it... Maybe it's the souls of virgin sacrifices to the blood god?

An Alice Cooper/Manson skin care and make up line would be bad as fuck. Sell that at spencers. So, I saw you in NJ last year and caught one of your towels. I'd like to know what you secrete that makes your sweat so alluring to cats. Why am I asking this? Because I brought that sweat towel home and my cats started beating the SHIT out of each other to "own" your sweat towel. 

Also, you rock!

*edit* Holy fuck, that show was in 2012. I am losing my mind. [Here's a pic from where I stood!](http://i.imgur.com/UNtcQMq.jpg) Hahahaha!

Maybe it was because I was holding my cat Lily White earlier before I went onstage, and I still had some of her cat pheromones on me. Or...it might be that I exude the scent that attracts pussy.

*He says sarcastically.*

You kinda walked into that one.  I read that in your voice, have only heard you speak in a few interviews and on a cartoon, but I read that in your voice.  Clone High? Best cartoon ever. You need to watch Sons of Anarchy.  Wait... He's in that? Yeah he plays a white supremacist in prison named Tully. He's mostly in the last season. Yeah but he really gets some *juicy* scenes act *in* http://img2.tvtome.com/i/u/2ea4ef1ab75e415ec1ebc0490dfd2f90.jpg Who gets *you* starstruck? When I see movies that I like, I always identify with the person that I see, and if they're a great actor, then when I see them in person, I still think of them as the character in the movie. So I get excited. I'm not jaded, especially living in Hollywood, you'd think I'd be jaded from meeting a lot of people that are famous, or people that you respect. And I'm not jaded.  Jaden. Nice! Lol this is so stupid but I laughed Do you ever think about doing a "throwback" record, one that is similar in sound to Antichrist or Mechanical Animals? Big fan I've always enjoyed the imagery and lyrics of your music. It's hard to go backwards. But it's always important to stay true to the core of the essence of who you are as a songwriter.

So I think that starting another album with Twiggy, because Twiggy was not involved in "The Pale Emperor" - I think that, if you want to call it, the "throwback sound" - will work its way into there, with a natural way of happening, now that he and I are together. That'll come back.  I feel like John 5 did a lot of great work in the albums he was a part of. I know you two had a couple of rough patches but, any chance of bringing him in again?  Tell us about working with Die Antwoord?  What was it like? You were a pleasant surprise in their video. 

Also massive respect for your music, self awareness, and empathy in the face of haters.  I've known them for a few years now, because we share the same management, and didn't really get a chance to work so much together musically. I really enjoyed the brief experience of being in their last video. They didn't tell me my ex-wife was going to be in there, that was a little prank they played on me, but we get along fine, so it was okay. And I did do a performance on Halloween, and Ninja came onstage and sang "Beautiful People" with me. And that was a little chaos. So yeah. And thank you. Thanks for replying. 

Your thoughts on Columbine really turned my opinion of you upside down followed by your various TV interviews. It takes a special kind of person to stand up through what you did through the 90's and 00's. Respect. 

 source http://www.stereogum.com/1715984/watch-marilyn-manson-play-the-beautiful-people-with-the-beautiful-johnny-depp-and-die-antwoord/video/ Hey, You grabbed my boobs when we met! So glad you're doing an AMA.
My question is:
Ass or boobs? 

Edit: IT WAS OKAY WITH ME FOR HIM TO GRAB MY BOOBS!  It's always about the nipple.

It's not the boob, itself.

I'm very specific what kind of nipples I like. Not the shape of the boob, or the size of it.  And that will remain a secret, my preference.  Pepperonis. Large pizza or lunchable size?  Bologna? :D Dont forget about Hershey Kisses Why do they call them kisses in the first place? No one really knows. Some people speculate that its the way or the sound the machine drops the chocolate onto the conveyor belt. Kind of like how it sounds when I take a shit The best part about this is that Victoria had to write it. Mr Manson is long gone, this is Victoria opening up to us. I wish I was cool enough to have my boobs grabbed by Marilyn Manson. Do you watch Hannibal? What TV are you into right now? Hahahaha. Yes I do watch HANNIBAL. And that's why I - as a fan of it - ended up buying a lot of things on an auction that took place today. I find HANNIBAL and a lot of episodic series to be the new form of cinema, because they tell things in chapters. I loved the first season of TRUE DETECTIVE. So far, I love the first episode of the new one. I was worried that I wouldn't, because i was so attached to the first storyline. But so far, I enjoy it. I really enjoy your acoustic material. It sounds so raw. Is there a possibility of you recording an unplugged/acoustic album? Um...as a matter of fact, that's some of the plans, of the style of music that I'm working on right now. 

I don't know what it'll turn into. Some of it will be with Jonathan Davis, I think. Because he has plans of doing something similar as well. Something that might even cross over the boundaries of being more Southern-sounding.

It is strange, when I think about it - I did record "Smells Like Children' in Mississippi, which is where the blues came from. So there might be something more acoustic and blues in my future.

I like the rawness of it.

I definitely like the rawness. When I worked as a youth pastor at a Baptist church, I was occasionally approached by parents concerned over their children listening to your music. Usually, I would pull up your segment in Bowling for Columbine. I would follow this by encouraging these parents to listen to their children, and to experience their kids' music together. Maybe ask questions like, "What do you identify with in this music? Why is it meaningful to you?" And to actually listen to the answers. Some dismissed me, but others took me up on this suggestion. For the ones who tried it, both the kids and their parents actually learned a lot about each other. All that to say, thank you for being a thought-provoker, question-asker, and notion-challenger. My question: Has the wave of "concerned parents" over the years been draining to you as an artist, or has it pushed you further in creating art?

**EDIT:** To those criticizing Marilyn Manson for not answering, I don't think it should reflect negatively on him. I posted the question about five minutes after the last answer he posted in this thread. It sounded like he was exhausted, and was probably just finished with the AMA. I would have loved an answer, but I really appreciate everyone who weighed in on what I shared. You're all beautiful people. (Also, insert heartfelt TY4TGold sentiment here.) You seem like a really cool pastor.  Thanks! I'm in a different part of the nonprofit world now, but it was a good time in life. It was a perpetual struggle with the bureaucracy of the religious elite, but I'd like to think that some kids out there learned that they had value as human beings, and that liking rock or being gay or smoking pot didn't make them bad people, no matter what other church people told them. I always felt like my job was just to help them survive adolescence and find out for themselves who they are and who they wanted to be. For some of them, faith helped. For others, it didn't. I cared about them regardless, and tried to get other adults to do the same. I wish he responded to you !  It's all good. Some of the best ones stay the shortest amount of time, but I thought I'd give it a shot. He's definitely on my top ten list of "interesting people I'd love to meet for lunch." I'll readily admit I never gave Manson any consideration beyond he's weird/crazy and is music is insulting. Then I saw his interview on Bowling for Columbine and was blown away by his demeanor, intelligence, and even humility towards the victims of Columbine. "I wouldn't have said anything, I would've listened to them."  You should really read his autobiography (and I'm not saying this in a snarky way, more of a *it's a damn good book* way) I love this. So many people assume all religious people are stuck up Bible bashers who don't actually live by what Jesus teaches in the Bible at all. Thanks for being a positive influence and really caring for those people. Cause that's what it's all about really.  This guy, he might just be doing the religion thing right. &gt; You're all beautiful people.

thebeautifulpeoplethebeautifulpeople... My mom always used to give me hell for listening to Manson, until I showed her that very same segment. She quoted it to everyone! It's one of the things that absolutely fascinates me about Marilyn Manson. In every interview, he seems to surprise the interviewer by being intelligent and well-spoken. It's brilliant, because he knows exactly how to read any type of audience and then speak to them accordingly. I was kicked out of a Baptist youth group when I was 14 because I owned Marilyn Manson t-shirts and cd's. It was amusing to me then as a dumb kid who felt like I was taking a stance, but it infuriates me today as someone who eventually went into part-time pastoral ministry. 

I didn't listen to Marilyn Manson because I hated Jesus or church, I listened to Marilyn Manson because I hated nominal Christians and was happy that an adult seemed to "get it". I was a straight - A virgin teenager who listened to my parents and volunteered at nursing homes. But I was a "bad kid" because I listened to rock music and wore a lot of black. Meanwhile, the shining stars of the youth group listened to Relient -k while they cheated on their tests, banged their boyfriends/girlfriends and treated other kids like garbage at school. They made sure to wear patches on their backpacks about how much they loved God, but couldn't tell you a single thing about the Bible because they never read it. 

Anyway, the final straw for me was when our youth group pastor told everybody to bring their naughty CD'S to nail to a big wooden cross at church during a summer retreat. I refused, so they kicked me out. 

Now most of the kids from that youth group are drug addicts or had kids at 17. I grew up to work at non-profits (kind of like you) and now a church. If I have to give anybody but Jesus the credit, I'll give it to Manson long before I give it to some BS youth group hypocrite factory.

Thanks for trying to give some of those parents a different perspective.  &gt; the shining stars of the youth group listened to Relient -k while they cheated on their tests, banged their boyfriends/girlfriends and treated other kids like garbage at school.

Yeah this was my sister.  I remember her getting on my case because her Youth group told her that Magic: The Gathering was evil and I was doing Satan's work playing the game in school.

You know what REALLY grinds my gears about what your group did to you:  Let's say you really *were* a bad kid?  Why the HELL (originally swore harder here but trying to show a little respect) would they kick you out for that?  Shouldn't they embrace you all the more?  The worse you are the *more* you'd need a youth group yes?  The more good the group could do for you.

How DARE they, in the name of religion, turn you away.  What the hell kind of religious lesson is that?  Pretty sure exclusion isn't supposed to be part of the deal.  

There are FAR too many youth groups out there that are really more about being Club Jesus and less about connecting and helping teens.  That said the ones that DO reach out to work with troubled teens, with folks like you in them, those are something special.  I say that as an unabashed atheist.  Jesus dined with tax collectors and prostitutes, but never approved of MtG players.  Nerds. ;) Thanks for doing what you do! Me, I was one of the "good kids" who crashed hard after high school. Turns out you don't get an award for having high standards, and in the real world, acting morally superior just makes you an asshole. I don't regret my own youth group experience growing up, but it drastically shaped the way I approached youth ministry when it was on my shoulders to lead one. The so-called "bad kids" are often the ones with the most amazing potential. I don't see them as needing to be changed so much as simply developed and encouraged. Just telling someone "I believe in you" can make a world of difference. I would really like an answer to this question. I don't have any religious faith myself but my father was very concerned about my sister being a fan of yours and I found it difficult to explain to him (a man in his 60s) that it wasn't evidence of insanity or satanism that she would like your music. That documentary was honestly a seriously eye opening experiece.  I was 12 when that came out, and I will always remember the interview he gave.  I was afraid of his music.. If I'm honest.  Then somehow his interview in "Bowling for Columbine" Solidified the "Don't judge a book by its cover" Cause that dude can handle some of the worst slander you can image. But he never let it effect how he conducted himself to the media.   That takes a seriously grounded person with a genuine desire to entertain people. Marilyn Manson, for what its worth, you're a god damn coold dude.
 [deleted] Can you give some context for those of us who don't know what you're talking about?

edit: thanks guys. Talking Dead season 3, Manson was on. The entire time he was on he looked bored and doped up, he kept going off on random tangents that had nothing to do with the current episode or even the current season, and he was just generally being kind of an asshole. My personal theory is that he either didn't want to be there or got into an argument pre-show and pulled a Billy Bob Thornton  &gt; pulled a Billy Bob Thornton

I had no idea what you were talking about. [This is amazing](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IJWS6qyy7bw). What was your favorite part of being on the final season of 'Sons of Anarchy' and working with Theo Rossi so much in those last few episodes?  I think my favorite part was getting to become close friends with Tommy Flanagan, and Charlie who plays Jax, and Mark, and D.L. - those guys all are really, I guess, like their characters in some way. They all ride bikes, they all took me in, we all became drinking buddies or whatever the case may be. And it was nice to have that camaraderie, because I never really had a lot of best friends other than Twiggy. So I enjoyed that. And as far as the acting went, I guess I liked the challenge of trying to grow a goatee - my facial hair doesn't grow very quickly! So the challenge of growing a goatee wasn't too easy.

And I liked that i got to be part of one of my favorite shows of all time. And kill somebody after I had intimate...what we like to call "the struggle snuggle" in prison. Hopefully I never end up on the other end of it in life.  Your acting was great btw, loved your character  When youre in NJ,Will you come over for dinner? Well, this morning I just was bidding on a bunch of props they were selling from HANNIBAL. So considering that i got some of the more dangerous ones - I don't think you'd want to invite me over for dinner! Because i'd end up cooking you and eating you! Woah baby.....invitation stands [deleted] Sir, how do you eat your eggs? Sunny side up.  What is something you want to accomplish or experience but have not done yet? I'd like to direct a movie that I'm not in. Not the one I was planning on doing for many years, about Lewis Carroll. 

I'd like to get back to writing, I'd like to take from one of my great inspirations, Hunter S. Thompson, to tell my stories. As anyone who knows me knows, I love to tell my stories. And I like writing.

So it's about finding the time to balance the two.

I just did a major acting role that I've never done before. It's in LET ME MAKE YOU A MARTYR. It was in Tulsa. I played a hitman named "Pope." So that's in the process of being finished up. It was great to try something that was *more* elaborate than what I've done in the past.  Can I just say, when I first heard about your movie, I literally kept tabs on its going ons every single day of my 16 year old life. I wanted to see it soooo badly. What made you not go through with it? I saw recently that you said you were interested in Madonna's new album, Rebel Heart, so, did you ever get around to listening to it? 
Also, The Pale Emperor rocks! In an age where everything is bought digitally, the physical CD is badass! I love the black disc!  I haven't actually gotten around to listening to all of the Madonna album. The thing that I wanted to do with the people who collaborated on the album artwork - it's the first album I've never included the lyrics on, and I've just now recorded a visual version of me reciting the lyrics, spoken-word, that will be released soon, and also a video for "Third Day of a Seven Day Binge" that was actually recorded many months ago, but that was stopped before we decided to change the order of how it was put out. The CD - I wanted it to be black, because your CD player is thermal, so it turns white, so it starts to fade away. I thought that was a metaphor. And it's also interesting, when you put your hand on it, it will leave a thermal handprint that fades away. Can I have a hug? Is that a question on the internet?

Well, when I meet people, if they are nice enough to me, I'm usually the hugging kind of person.

I like to treat people with the same courtesy that they treat me. 

If they are courteous, I can be that way as well. 

I'm a person that hugs. &gt; Is that a question on the internet?

I like to think he was interpreting the question as Victoria needing a hug.

And if he didn't hug her, then fuck Marilyn Manson. Victoria deserves hugs! /u/chooter, can I have a hug? Yes. Thanks Who played drums on Eat Me Drink Me? I don't remember. I think that Tim Scroll was responsible for a lot of it. And maybe it might've been Chris Vrenner. I think on that record we used a lot of drum programming intentionally, because we wanted a specific sound. But that record - that was a blurry part of my life, not that i don't remember it, but I felt a lot of different things. Drums weren't on the top of my list.  Tim Skld. And Chris Vrenna. Are you truly a satanist?  What's your view on that I've never considered myself a Satanist. I was a part of the Church of Satan, with an honorary position, simply because it was one philosophy - because I've never looked at it as a religion. Anton LaVey (who wrote the book THE SATANIC BIBLE) taught me a lot of things about life. You know, I've been a scholar - self-taught, self-read - I wouldn't want to limit my view on the possibilities of what there is out there in the spiritual realm to just one thing. Because there's always something new to open your mind. To let you see things from a different angle. I do believe in the power of the mind, and the power of certain things. I think that music definitely has to have some element that back in the beginning - and I'm not talking about once Christianity took over America, blaming Rock n' Roll for bad things - I mean back in the times when music was first invented, and the chords that were used in most rock n' roll music, they were considered evil - because I think when you put those notes together, they have the ability to disrupt or distract the brain from whatever sort of "virus" of language that religion is, in a sense.

If you have things like a Bible from any different religion - it does have a powerful reign over people's minds. And music does as well. So there had to be something - if we go by religion's view of "good vs. evil" - that would be evil, meaning it didn't agree with those views.  Hi Marilyn, thanks for hanging out with us tonight! 

What would you say you are looking forward to most about the upcoming tour? And what was the best experience of the most recent tour you just completed?  I think the best experience was...well, I wouldn't call it the best experience, but one of the most amusing things was I refused to continue playing a song until everybody in the crowd threw their bras at Twiggy, so there were 50-100 bras on his mic stand, that was amusing to me.

But I thought all the shows were great, amazing crowds. And when we did some smaller shows, they were really intense. And I think this one coming up is gonna be interesting, seeing how we meld together, Marilyn Manson and Smashing Pumpkins. I'm quite excited if the rumors that Jimmy Chamberlain is back in the band are true. Hearing more of the original songs I first listened to for the Smashing Pumpkins, before *I* even had a band. Billy asked me if I knew any drummers, I guess he needed a replacement drummer, and on my flight home from France, i had a strange dream that I told him Jimmy Chamberlain, and then I woke up and saw that it was true.

So I don't know if that means that dreams come true, or if the flight was so long that something strange happened, and synchronicity brought it together.

It continues to be one of those years for me and a lot of people that are in my life that special synchronicity keeps happening, and I feel like it's going to continue to build.  Several years back, I was visiting my girlfriend in Lyon, France. On one of my first nights there, we went into town with her brother, and found a bar. Due to a musical festival happening in the streets, we were the only people in there.  In walk two guys who were clearly not french.  I overheard them speaking american English and bought them a drink

Turns out, one is Twiggy and Steve (a manager of some sort).  They didn't really have a plan for the night, so we invited them to hang out with us since I was already on a tour of the town.

Twiggy is a great guy. He carried around a little figurine of a smurf and, when confronted by a bouncer, would just hand it to him or make it dance in his hands, much to the bewilderment of the bouncer.

We wound up drunk and eventually they ditched us. One of my favorite nights of my life.

Fast forward 2 weeks and I round the corner to my flight back to the US and there is Twiggy, Steve, and everyone else.  I spot him and roll up, looking like a guy who was just backpacking through Europe, and throw out a very warm 'Hey Twiggy!!'   He's very warm back and asking about my time and what I got into.  I thought it was sweet that he remembered me, despite only sharing a few hours together.

While this was going down, you were sitting right next to me completely perplexed about how the hell this guy just rolled into the situation and knew Twiggy. You leaned into him and said "Who the fuck is this guy?" The same reaction the first time I saw a music video of yours. 

Years later, I saw a picture of you, him, John Stewart, and Trent Reznor backstage [(here)](http://41.media.tumblr.com/tumblr_ljzl56a7Wu1qearaqo1_1280.png) where he was way more into a toy C3P0 than anything else going on.

My question:

Does Twiggy always carry around toys?  I know that he collects toys, and it really depends on what you define as toys. He is a fan of science fiction, it started with STAR WARS, and that's actually one of the first ways that we became close back in Florida, because i'd stolen a bunch of STAR WARS toys and I sold them to him.  I really want to hear the story behind the great Marilyn Manson Star Wars toy heist.  &gt; i'd stolen a bunch of STAR WARS toys and I sold them to him

A good salesman! What made you want to become a musician? I think when I read NO ONE HERE GETS OUT ALIVE, the biography of Jim Morrison, it really interested me in his writing, his poetry.

But I would say The Doors, I think, was the first thing that lured me in. And it was more about the lyricism than even the idea of being able to play an instrument - although in grade school, I started taking drum lessons, so I was originally a drum major. But traditionally jazz players play in their left hand, the drumstick is sideways, and I was always more interested in beat-driven music. And you know, my playlist before I go onstage - I spend about 3 hours listening to music. That's my sort of meditation before I go onstage. It really only takes me about 15-20 minutes to physically get ready.

My playlist is quite a strange range of different things. Anywhere from Jay-Z to Johnny Cash and everywhere in between.  Hey Marilyn. i'd like to ask you how is it to work with Billy Corgan? Thanks. Billy's - he's very similar, I guess. And quite the opposite of me.

Both, at the same time.

He has the childish enthusiasm that I have. And he has a vision of what he wants.

It's two strong-minded heads at the same time. That could potentially be troublesome. Not that we've argued. He's always been very helpful and guiding. He gave me one of my first guitars, and taught me how to tune it. Back in 1998. What did you have for breakfast today? What did I have for breakfast today?

Um, let me think...I think I had grilled chicken.

Really, rather bland, sliced chicken. Haha. 

And since I have extreme jet lag, I woke up really early, I think about 6 AM, and so now i'm having a second breakfast.

But this time, it's vodka. Breakfast of champions.  So you're a spoiled hobbit &gt; so now i'm having a second breakfast

What about elevenses? Luncheon? Afternoon tea? &gt; second breakfast

[yesss](http://cdn.slowrobot.com/12520122139172.jpg) How do you feel about people with marilyn manson tattoos?.  I feel flattered  - whenever people tell me or ask me about getting one, I always advise against it. Because I tell them "if you hate me, you're not going to like the tattoo."

So if it's something that makes people happy - it's just another mark on your body, it's just another part of your history or your tale. It's another tattoo that tells a story about you.  Smooth or crunchy peanut butter? Smooth. You ARE the fucking antichrist. How was it being on Sons of Anarchy? Yeah, was Juice any good? Just let me finish my pie. How was your experience working on Californication? What does it feel like to have people you've never met before ("strangers") tell you that they feel understood by you? Tell us about your relationship with Lily White.. She stays at home while you're touring?? What ever happened to Phantasmagoria: The Visions of Lewis Carroll, and will we ever get to see it one day? Met you in Charlotte, the black guy with the grill. What do you and Jonathan Davis got cooking? When is that awesome shit going to be served to the famished?  Saw you in Prince George and you were brilliant! Do you have any idea why that guy punched you in Alberta? He was hitting on the guys girlfriend in the Denny's and offered to pay her to come up to his room. Boyfriend didn't take well to that.

Source : live in lethbridge and go to that Denny's alot. What is the most random, silly thing that brings joy to your life?

Some of your music videos are pretty hot.  Have you ever had issues with getting turned on or having awkward boners while making these?


Also just want to say I've been a huge fan girl since middle school and part of me is super disappointed that I don't have an epic question to ask that would spark a conversation that would somehow result in us becoming super duper best friends forever. Hey! Quick question: what's it like seeing your face tattooed on someone's skin? What's something that people don't know about you that you'd like to share? If you had a playlist for sex, what would be on it? Marilyn Manson One of my favorite mental games is pairing two artists together and thinking about the song they would produce. For the record, I've always wondered what you and tom waits would do together. 

My question is this: what two musical artists would you choose to produce a song together- or to cover a duet together?  what really happened in Lethbridge? (for those of you that never heard, Manson supposedly got in a fight at the Dennys) All Ive heard is rumors. Would you ever do small venues like that again? (less then 5k people)  Would you please post a pic at /r/ladybonersgw?
 Hello Mr. Manson, Family Guy once did an episode with "you" in it.  Were you aware of it?  What did you think about it? Here's the video clip for anyone who hasn't seen it. [Clip] (https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3djcZf-5XsI) What are your thoughts on Lamb of God? What would you say is the best advice that you have ever received? What *exactly* did you mean when you said "I am the god of fuck?"
 I can't sleep. :( Do you have any tips on how I can go the fuck to sleep? What would you say is the main reason you stopped writing politically-inspired music (Lunchbox)? Was it the effect you said Columbine had on your career? Would you say you've still got a piece of punk in your heart?  How much of what goes on in North Korea is kept secret?  A lot. I mean, especially in the West media. So much political conflicts and issues. Just about the leader. But I think what we are really missing is that because of heavy subjects, we tend to forget that there are people like myself who have hopes and dreams for a better life. And people who want to be happy. But because of all those heavy subjects, I think we sometimes don't get to see the average North Korean, and you can't really connect or relate to them because of heavy subjects.  I feel the same after visiting a lot of countries. I just got back from Russia. Everyone was very good to me, and I felt welcomed and just got the sense that these were people like everyone else who just want to live well and hope that the bullshit their government is up to doesn't fuck their lives up. I ate BBQ with Russians, but we did not lay on the ground or squat. &gt;Russians 

&gt;but we did not lay on the ground or squat.


I call bs

 this makes me sad :( Your username determined that was a lie. No, he is sad the traitor escaped before he could steam him to death or something equally adorable.  A lot of stuff goes on that we don't know about, example:

In 2012 a large group of civil engineers, and other professionals to include US military members where sent to China with 1 million dollar check which was to be presented to the N. Korea Embassy in return for "a digging permit"  in the Chosin reservoir area O yea and "Visa fees" even though no passports where to be stamped in the Chosin reservoir area. In addition three large container ships one filled to the brim with comm equipment, tents, generators, gasoline, diesel, heavy equipment etc and two filled with food stuffs where meant to be sent to N. Korea in return for the rights to recover US Marines who died in the battle fought in the Chosin reservoir. Also as a part of the deal EVERYTHING besides the people where to stay in N. Korea forever. To include the ships themselves. 

The trip never happened because Jim Jung Ill passed away and the state department decided it was too risky to do the mission.

A similar mission was done in 2002. It ended when sat imagery indicated the N. Koreans where moving in more military personnel then agreed and the expedition force was rushed to the DMZ and let across the border...they had to leave the SUVs as the N. Koreans wouldn't let them drive across the border.

Another interesting tidbit about N. Korea

They have a black hawk. Yes the same black hawk that the US has. A pilot was conducting a training mission near the DMZ when he got lost after an unlucky series of failures he ended up flying something like 60 miles into N. Korea territory. He was forced to land, the US eventually secured his release by providing food aid. 

The pilot and crew where treated well, no beatings or anything like that. About that last part: Didn't the blackhawk carry a few grenades for demolition?

Even our recce vehicles carry a few. Our old Fox has three: One WP for the mass spectrometer/GC, one frag/HE for the engine, and another WP for the electronics bay. Procedure is for the system operator, commander and driver to each grab one and chuck it in when the vehicle has to be abandoned.

I imagine one could make a helicopter unsalvageable with one frag to every intake, plus maybe something to wreck the avionics. This is really interesting. Do you have anything more? What was the political backlash of North Korea just fucking keeping a black hawk? Well, not much happened when they kept an entire Navy ship. What were you most surprised to learn about the world once you left North Korea?  Also, what are some of the biggest cultural differences youve encountered, and what do you miss about North Korea?  Thank you for taking the time to do this AMA!  I mean, I didn't really know much about the outside world until I got to China. The biggest surprise was probably when I was watching TV in China, with the commercials or advertisements for medicine to help you lose weight - that was really something I never expected to see. 

I think that was the biggest cultural shock. Because we were in a completely isolated country, I was not able to access information, even just going to China was culturally shocking. Coming to America, probably the biggest shocking moment was how everyone was living different lives. I guess one thing would be, for example, going to public parks with family, refreshments and barbecues, laying on the ground - I think that was something I never really imagined. I never had that in North Korea. We never had those kind of things.

I definitely miss some things. I do miss my friends, and also my hometown, my hometown has so many memories. It's a place that I learned how to swim in the river there, there were mountains we climbed for fun, and one thing I do really miss is the pear tree from my backyard. Even if I go back to North Korea, which is not going to happen, I won't be able to say "Oh, this is my home" because most of my family is no longer there. So seeing the pear tree I planted would give me some memories.  Despite the conditions in which you grew up, that's a lovely memory and made me smile :) I know a fair number of immigrants from poor backgrounds/countries, and it's always nice to hear stories like this. In the face of such harsh, unforgiving surroundings, there are still some happy memories in there, however small. Immigrant here (grew up in 3rd world war country) and one thing that's always frustrating a bit is sharing memories of my childhood (which to me are very happy memories) but having people comment that "[I'm] being depressing." For example: I recently shared with my S.O. a story about how much I loved (and still love) SPAM because when I was growing up we had no food (we'd sometimes go a few days or a week without anything other than 'soup' made of water &amp; re-boiled vegetables), so when my father would bring back a can of SPAM once a month (it was given to him as part of his army rations but he always kept himself from eating it so he could bring it to us) the entire family would gather for a "feast." To me that's such a happy memory because it was a time when everyone was happy, the whole family was around and safe, and we would all laugh and enjoy something which to us was a huge treat. However, sharing a memory like that can definitely bum some people out apparently.  My husband was born in bumfuck Russia. He told me once about his first banana; an uncle brought a single black, mushy banana from China for the family to share at New Years or something. Another year, it was an old mandarin orange. It was memorable because there was basically never any fruit. These stories have always seemed really depressing and I never thought that maybe those were positive, fond memories for him.

What a lightbulb moment. Thanks for bringing this up, I'm embarrassed that this never occurred to me.  That's another thing I like about hearing about these kinds of stories and experiences. Sometimes I even see things from a point of view I hadn't considered or given much thought to before. In the end, I feel like it helps me understand people a little better in general, which is something I admit I have trouble with sometimes. Out of curiosity, where do you come from? Maan that is depressing as fuck - i mean, this is empathy, it makes other people like you because of the hardship you faced. If people act ''bummed out'', as if you personally annoyed them with your sad story, well fuck those selfish pricks, they make my blood boil. Bastards.
 See, this is exactly what I mean! I love that. It's something that a lot of us in the so-called "first world" would take for granted, but for you and your family, it was a big deal, and it brought you together and put smiles on your faces.

I'm sorry you've had people dump on your experiences like that. Some people just have a hard time seeing things from other perspectives than their own, I guess. You should plant a new pear tree now, in America. I know it's not *the* pear tree, but it would be symbolic of starting a new life in America. WOW...Of all the things you could say that you appreciated, you said laying on the ground in a park...I guess I take that shit for granted, because I'm constantly outside in public, barbecuing, and I lay wherever I damn well please. I consider myself a fairly worldly being, but you just put my in my place sir...Welcome to the states, and have the best damn time you can doing whatever you please! Sir, Sir, how many times do I have to tell you to respect the do not trespass sign, you can't just bbq and lay wherever you damn well please. &gt; I guess I take that shit for granted

You should. You should also fight anyone who tries to take it away. Like free speech, it's not a "oh boy I'm glad I have it!" kind of thing, we've established that this is not optional.  If you're fighting people in order to protect it, you aren't taking it for granted...  
  
That's like, the opposite of that &gt; Even if I go back to North Korea, which is not going to happen, I won't be able to say "Oh, this is my home" because most of my family is no longer there.

It's funny, I just said in my head that I have something in common with you, a North Korean 'escapee'.

I think its something that an element of which happens with anyone who migrates anywhere: it's not just a place, its a time. I dearly miss a couple of places that I've lived but, having been back to a couple of them, it's never quite the same. Things change, people move on. Anyone who isn't your best friend probably has a million memories that make them a stranger to you; differences that would have been subtle as a resident become jarring as a returnee. So my take on it is to think about it in both space and time. I can go back to a place, and I can yearn to do so, but I can't go back to a time, and that helps me stay in the present. I'm very sorry about your family.  Thank you for responding.  Was it a big tree with hard, mostly flavorless yellow pears? I have one in my yard, too. I'll send you some pears in the fall, if you'd like. Studying International Relations means you probably want to make a big difference to the world, what would you do to prevent others growing up in cruel conditions you were subjected to? Well, as you probably would know, studying for undergraduate, it can only give you some tools. But I don't think I have the solution to make a better place for North Korea overnight. But what i believe is that education will help me to be empowered and overcome those issues one day. But as of now, I don't see much hope, but one thing I can do is help make sure that we are prepared for ex-North Korea someday, with education.  Such a great sentiment. I truly believe education is the cure to most of the world's problem. Does the average North Korean really believe all the propaganda put out by their government? I hear about them being told that the Kim family are divine, that America controls most of the world outside of Korea, and other difficult to believe things. Do most average North Koreans really believe all this? Well, it's hard to say. Yes and no. Because if you're talking about nowadays North Koreans, it's a little bit hard for me to say that a majority of North Koreans believe propaganda. But I do think that older generations definitely believe government propaganda, because in the 1970's, economically the North Koreans were better off than South Korea, but after the 1990s famine, things have proven that it is not the best country in the world as the government or state claim, because how can you accept the propaganda when your best friend dies of starvation? So I think nowadays more and more people are critical of government propaganda, but I can't say what all North Koreans do now.  &gt;Yes and no.

I have heard this repeatedly but I never understood why until now. That explanation makes perfect sense. I am from Romania, our country was communist until late December 1989 and we still have a bunch of old people who claim that it life was better before '89. These are the people who have learned to live by the old rules (stealing, cheating), who have lived through the 70's which was a very prosperous decade for my country and who don't understand how capitalism works (you get paid for the work you do).

In contrast, the younger generations who were born in the 70s and remember only the 80s famines understand why that system was bad. When Ceaucescu visited the DPRK in 1971, that really influenced him in terms of building a cult of personality and he idolized/mimicked a lot of what the DPRK did.

My best friend is Romanian and his mom would tell me, name any product in the world, they did not have it in the 1980's. Newspapers for toilet paper and so on....Even if you had the money, there was none to buy. Ceaucescu would export everything for cash. 

My friend's mom was a school teacher and they turned her school into a giant silkworm farm. Aka, they taught classes outside while the silkworms filled the actual school, the product to be exported for cash. Every school had to turn a profit for the regime somehow. I assume that was all due to Ceaucescu's austerity policies in the 1980s designed to pay off their foreign debt: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/1980s_austerity_policy_in_Romania Im from Lithuania. We were occupied by The Soviet Union for years and years. After they were gone people were missing something. They had the freedom but didn't know where to start or what to do. That's why older people still say the same damn phrase which im going to translate directly: "It was better with the Russians". The whole mentality is still there, which is: don't trust your neighbor, if his house burns, bring a beer and watch it and so on, which is very upsetting. But im the new generation, i was born in free Lithuania already, and i have big hopes for future generations. Reminds me of a joke I heard in Lithuania : A man meets a Djinn, who tells him that he can make any wish, but whatever he asks, his neighbour would be given double. The man then says "take away one eye from me !" I know that joke with "I wish for 38C fever" Twist: The guy loses an eye while his neighbor just becomes Lthuanan. "Beat me half to death." Lol, yup, sounds lithuanian enough for me! Same in Russia. It doesn't help that young people died massively during 90's. It doesn't help that the government is delusional soviet loving kgb agents. It doesn't help that there is like 60% of nation who are old women enough to have pleasant time during USA paycheck (70's 80's) period. The country goes downhill and sucks because of the people. And there is nothing youngsters can do except either leave or rollover and be penetrated, pardon my french.  Your french is prefect. 
 Labas my friend. My family is from Lithuania but had to leave in 1918 or 17 in the face of Russian occupation. They took everything as far as I've been told, the Farm, the house and the estate. Only one brother escaped to the US with money sewed into his clothing. It's crazy that anyone that is Lithuanian would have any nostalgia for those cabbage thieving red bastards.   &gt; It's crazy that anyone that is Lithuanian would have any nostalgia for those cabbage thieving red bastards.


Even under the most 'broken' of Governments a section of the population are going to end up as relative 'winners'.  Yep, unfortunately older people still say those were better times. Of course those were better times for you, because those were your young days. I've heard a speculation that if we hadn't been occupied back then there would be 5-6 million people living in Lithuania right now. There are less than 3 million now and the number is getting smaller fast. Im sorry for what your family has been trough. As far as i know, the only people who were happy with their lives during those times were the ones who betrayed our country and had been working for Soviet goverment. They had sort of a VIP status because of snitching people in and helping them. They would receive some stuff that normal people were only dreaming of. In all honesty, the way capitalism was implemented in Romania screwed a lot of people over. People in their 40s and 50s being thrown out of their lifetime jobs without any real alternative, industry being sold for scrap (not that all of it could be saved, but there was a lot of plunder as well) and hundreds of thousands of jobs being crushed along with it, pyramid schemes, mass privatizations without any long-term planning, former Securitate officials making big bucks while others starved, hyperinflation, a meager social safety net, etc. The country was a mess in the '90s.

It's easy to blame the people who regret the '70s if you forget that their actual lived experience was better back then. It's not about "the system", those people aren't actual communists and don't care about ideology, they just relate to a period in time in which they could live decently, and not necessarily by stealing or cheating. Yes, there were a lot of informal ways of doing things under communism, but you can't really blame individuals for playing along with the rest of society.

Casually claiming that they "don't understand how capitalism works" is a huge understatement which gives very little credit to the monumental changes the lives of these people went through. Why would they support capitalism when capitalism threw them away?

I'm not trying to praise communism, I'm glad that Ceausescu is gone, but to frame the problem in terms of capitalism vs communism is simplistic and has very little to do with the minute details of people's lives. It's not about ideology, it's about having a decent life. My grandmother, polish, is the same.

During communism she had a good work, an m4 flat, she traveled all around the world (mostly soviet block countries, but italy, france, ecc, aswell).

She will say that things were good back then, not as bad as painted in the media, especially western, nowadays.

But she also has a bias. I mean, everybody would remember its 20s and 30s with nostalgia when you're 70. This comment is the truest on this topic. I'm from Latvia. It's not that my grandma is a filthy communist and hides red flags in her closet, it's just that her quality of life was actually better back then: she had a fine job, her husband had a fine job, her kids went to camps for free (no GULAG jokes, pls, I mean like boy-scout-camp-type-thing), she got free tours to USSR resorts for her and her kids, she remembers food being much better quality (more natural, fresher, etc) and since her family had some sailor friends she could also get foreign "luxuries" like jeans, perfume and sweets. She's Ok now as well, but she was a whole lot better back then. Many people her age are in deep poverty in my country, so it's no wonder why so many of them long for the good old times so desperately.  That's interesting. Was her experience typical or did she and her family have "connections" that allowed such luxuries (for example you mention that she knew some sailors that gave her some items not normally available) that wouldn't be attainable to to the majority? My family emigrated from Poland after the fall of the Soviet Union and all I hear are stories about waiting in line for your rations and government crackdowns on any protests or demonstrations  That's a very typical experience. Communism is all about equality and it kind of worked...sort of...in some cases. 

You had a job. If you didn't have a job, a job would be given to you. If you didn't want to work or did it poorly, there would be a person attached to you to supervise you and guid you. And I am not talking about shitty jobs, a job would be given based on your education and experience. The job might require you to relocate to a different city, but as my parents told me that was no doubt in their mind that there would be a job given to them once they finished their university education. Can you imagine this now?? That you don't have to worry about getting a job after all of this.

BTW education was truly free. If you pass the tests to get into university, you'd study for free. And USSR had one of the best unviersities in the world back then, so you were getting the best possible education for free with a guruantee to have a job afterwords. Sounds like a sweet deal right? I mean I can go on and on about cummunism and how it workds but overall there are certainly some upsides to that. medicine is free...and again, pretty damn good medicine as well. You were given an appartment for free after you give 20-30 years of work.

Now to the negatives. I am not going to go into politics. Obviously freedom wasn't up to the standard we have it today and I probably wouldn't advise you to speak out your mind about Communism and btw communism had to be studied by everyone in the university, so there was no escape from it. Everyone had more or less the same pay and it wasn't a very big one. About 100 rubles, enough not to worry too much about future, but I don't see you saving enough for a car. BTW all of the luxuries were out of price range or more so out of buying abilities of everyone since they were non-existing. People still joke about oranges being avalable only on New Year or candies being given out on holidays only. It's not like you didn't have money to buy them, they were just not available. That's why you see those ridicolous lines in the movies about USSR, because if anyone was selling something of value you better be there to buy it. Same with cloth...if you want anything nice, you have to buy it from people illegally getting it from other countries. My mom bought her first pair of jeans for 200 rubles (so that was 2 monthly paychecks for her). Pretty much anything imported had to be bought illegaly from people. 

Noone was waiting around for rations. Everyone was fed and dressed and lived live without worrying too much about the future. People waited in line for the good stuff, which was nice to have, but noone was starving. 

I guess it up to the people to decide what's better. I bet a lot of poor people would love to have a little more communism in their lives, but none of the system is perfect. There are downsides to everything, but let's not pretend like there are no upsides to it as well.  Well written post about Romania, thank you. &gt;  the way capitalism was implemented 

Part of that is how the political systems changed too. For the former bloc countries, there wasn't much in the way of a deliberate Constitutional Convention beforehand to map out government and the social contract. With the Communists out, it was a free for all for a time period, and it allowed many to exploit the situation. It was a very chaotic change. Wow, fascinating.  My heart goes out to Romania.  You guys certainly develop some of the best hackers in* the world lol.  Always impressed by that fact. Their internet speed is inside the world's top 10 (results vary according to who you ask but it's lightning quick in Romania). I switch my region to Romania for Steam downloads because its way faster Woah does that work? Do you know why? And webcam girls, they have some really nice looking webcam girls. Romanian gymnasts need to pay the bills somehow. Well I'm from Slovenia(ex-Yugoslavia), also an ex-communist country. I do believe that people had it easier in those days. People were not worrying about things like jobs and surviving. Yes they had to wait  10 years for a car, yes they were limited with what they could buy in a store. But they were happy with what they had. 

Note that Yugoslavia was far better of that most of the communist countries in Europe. 
Too bad the system was not  sustainable. 

 I'm a bit familiar with the former Yugoslavia and their modified-socialism under Tito, I'm curious why you say it was unsustainable? Different nations, different people, different mindsets. The only thing uniting Yugoslavia when Tito was alive, was Tito. You know what happened after... My parents swear life was way better in communist jugoslavia. They all worked and got paid for the work they did made a good living and didn't have to work as much as they do here. Maybe my parents were just lucky to never see the negative side of it or maybe Jugoslavia in our part of the country wasn't bad. Idk but sometimes they make it seem like it was really nice to live there until the war. And Yugoslavia had a great basketball team. Can you guys like, send some people to the USA to educate young college "revolutionaries" that no, we really do not want communism/socialism and why?  In North Korea, did you believe the whole world was like life in North Korea? Also, what would happen if someone said something about Kim Jong Un in front of a large crowd? Thanks for doing this AMA, I'm really interested in what life is like in a country like that. It just all seems so surreal to me. At an early age, yes, because I remember growing up, seeing documentaries or clips from so many documentaries where you had people who were poorly dressed, struggling with finding food and drinkable water. But I think the concept, the images were fading away slowly, because knowing that China - even though it was really a small village my town, they always had light, versus we didn't. So I think I wouldn't say that i started *doubting* about it, but I started recognizing things that were from China. I definitely knew that China was better off than North Korea.

Those kind of ideas are not even imaginable.

So I never really heard an actual story that actual happened like that, but I can only imagine that they would be either public execution or put in prison camps.  Are you ever worried about repercussions for going public about escaping North Korea? Definitely. I mean, I can't say no, because I know that North Korean government is crazy enough to do anything that rational people would not do. At this point, in the US, one thing I could do for my people is to take my story public.  Thank you for your answer!  Can't say I know a lot about what could protect you, but if I were you, my first priority would be doing everything in my power to become a U.S. citizen. From there, God speed. I think I speak for all of us that I hope you never have anything happen to you because of your bravery. Thanks for a great AMA.  Did you ever have any situations where it could be life or death? So many times.

Just becoming homeless on the street at a young age, if i didn't learn how to beg, I could have died of starvation. I also used to work in a coal mine when I was teenager, so yes, there were times that I was risking my life.  I think this is such a crazy concept for the average 'westerner' to grasp. Being homeless at a young age (or any age for that matter) is horrible enough, but being homeless and begging for food in North Korea where people are short on food to begin with....  

I just can't imagine what that must be like. North Koreans civilians that donate foods to starving beggars are the type of people that can actually change the world for the better if they're given power. That this guy is still alive after that period of having to beg in North Korea shows there are some truly amazing civilians there. People are people and people relate to the suffering of others. Don't you think it'd be ridiculous if even the people were like the regime lol. It is funny the way media makes people think of the world. Of course they help each other. That is what normal people do. I don't generally advocate fasting - but being homeless for a period and not having food i gotta say the feeling of hunger is pretty enlightening. It really let's you know what principles are *really* yours, and how much you believe in them. 

Being, *really* hungry and walking by shops with absolutely immense amounts of food in them is a strange feeling. Especially when you know how the food is shipped there, how much is thrown out all the time, the 15 year olds who run the place, etc. 

Even if you *have* money, if you stop eating for a few days, you'll see what i mean very soon. I really is quite the change in perspective!
 No thanks. How long were in China before you resettled in the United States? How was the transition and 1st year of being in the U.S. like, and the cultural differences during that time? And thank you again for doing this AMA! It's really insightful. Exactly one year.

I mean, definitely the language and cultures were the biggest obstacles, but what really struck me was not knowing what to do with my life. That was hardest. Because in North Korea, my daily dream was to find food and have enough food. But then in some sense, the food was love, the food was entire dream for me. But coming to America, I think the food was provided, so in that sense, my dream was already achieved. So I didn't really know what to look for afterwards. And a lot of people told me i had freedom to do *EVERYTHING*, but nobody explained to me what freedom meant.

So I had to figure that out on my own. I think meeting new friends, and talking to older people, helped me.  What's your favourite American food? What did you eat in NK? Maslow's Heirarchy of Needs in action. What are some misconceptions that Americans have about North Korea? Not many Americans know the difference between North Korea and South Korea until recent years, so I think that we are missing so much information from the ground level, the average North Korean family lifestyle. When we talk about "North Korea," we talk about nuclear weapons or communism or dictatorship. It's important those things be highlighted, but they also overshadow the ordinary people. North Korean men, when they reach age 17 or 18, they must serve in the military as a duty for the nation. So in some sense, almost every average North Korean family is somewhat tied to the military. When I was in North Korea, about 9 years ago, a lot of people lost jobs. They didn't really know what to do. A lot of people become jobless, and I think it was confusing, the moments when people were still trying to figure out what to do with their lives that were not appointed by the government.  Why did so many people lose their jobs? Did the government eventually get them new jobs? I remember North Korea did their first [Nuclear test](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2006_North_Korean_nuclear_test) 9 years ago. Probably not related though. ^^^^right? Hey Joseph,
I'm very proud of you for doing what you did!  Did you know that the political prison camps in North Korea existed when you lived there?  If so, what did you know about them?
Thanks! I had heard of Camp 22, because it was nearby by my hometown, but I definitely was not aware or knew about the level of severity or the harshness that they were facing. The prison camps are even more isolated than North Korea itself, so I didn't really know much about it. I actually learned about them after i came to the US, from other North Korean defectors or survivors from the camps.  Did you know about the three generations rule? What is that? If you try to escape or something severe like that then you + generations of your family is sentenced to prison camps. Basically, when you go to a prison camp, three generations of your family born in the camp are also prisoners. Only your great-grandchildren will be free. There are still some people in DPRK prison camps because their grandfathers fought with the South Koreans during the Korean war. Do you think we'll see North Korea liberated in our lifetime?  I hope so. And I have some hope, because as I mentioned earlier in the conversation, I think more and more North Koreans become more and more critical about the regime. And the activities, people tend to become more independent. Before they did what the government asked them to do. So I hope the North Koreans become more aware of the wrongness of the government. And also, another reason why I feel like I have some hope is North Korea government is not stupid enough that they will step down on black market, but the black market is really the engine that helps eye-open North Korean people. So at some point, the government will have to compromise with the North Korean people, or come up with something. There will be pressure from the ground level, from the people. So I don't know how they will respond to it. I hope more and more people will become aware of the situation, and find some leverage to pressure the government.  do you have an opinion on whether and how NK should reunite with SK (assuming the regime falls)?

the only time a country was in a similar position was with germany and its split between east and west.

there were and still are many problems caused by the reunification. though I would say germany is eventually better off as a united nation, and I would like to say the same for korea. but to me it seems the reunification of korea poses greater challenges than the reunification of germany A follow up question: Do you think that, if the 'DPR'K (I put DPR in quotes because seriously: it's about as much of a Democratic People's Republic as I am a tunafish) ever becomes a free nation, will it come from within, such as a revolution or collapse of Kim's government, or from outside, in the form of possible military action from a coalition of countries wishing to end the atrocities Kim's government commits every day?

In the latter case? How would you guess this war would go? How determined would the average DPRK soldier would be to turn back an invasion? Would many surrender and defect at the earliest chance, or are they so brainwashed as to fight to the last man? Without any military defections, how well would the NKA stand up to a coalition of developed, far more advanced militaries?

(Oooooohkay, I'm apparently a dick for asking this. Can't imagine why, but pheh. Downvote away.) I'm also not sure why you're being downvoted so much, but I think the main reason why countries like the US don't interfere is because North Korea is backed by China. So really we'd have to worry about China's reaction, the DPRK soldiers aren't a problem in comparison. China and by extension Russia are very concerned with who surrounds their borders. It would be very dangerous for an outside force to overrun N.Korea's regime. External military action against North Korea is extremely unlikely because Seoul is within conventional artillery range of the DMZ. Even forgetting that they have nukes that can hit Seoul and Japan in retaliation, the loss of civilian life if they turned the artillery guns on Seoul makes an invasion impossible to justify. That is my understanding of the situation as well.

The US is unable to take action because DPRK has a huge number of artillery pieces pointed at Seoul, while DPRK has little incentive to attack because that would cause the US to come down in force and end them.

That is why all we see are stupid little toeing the line moves every couple of years. DPRK sinking a ship here, firing a couple shells there, squawking about something or other violating some other thing, and so on. 

EDIT: The US could probably end it with little collateral damage via a pre-emptive, surprise attack, but that would be simply unacceptable politically. I'm not an expert but militarily speaking it would be a war that would be over in less time than the NHL playoffs.  I also do not believe China would militarily back North Korea, not against the US anyway.  We buy all their stuff, why go to war with your biggest customer?  
I believe that change must come from within.  The United States is horrifyingly bad at nation building.  Try and try again; fail and fail again.  If the United States or an outside coalition instigated revolution in the DPRK I imagine that would create a substantial power vacuum.  As bad as Mr. Jong Un seems to us, I truly dread of someone worse taking over if he was suddenly deposed by external forces without a serious government ready to step in.  I mean a serious government, not just a US-backed shill. "militarily speaking it would be a war that would be over in less time than the NHL playoffs."

Said the Vietnam experts in the 60s and the Iraq experts in the 2000s and every other know nothing that dragged a country into a quagmire of a war.

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9mTlnrXFAXE
 What kept you going?  Like what gave you hope during all of this? My only hope was to see my sister, and I guess what really kept me going was that I had believed that my sister would come back and find me one day. And that was really the hope that kept me going.  Did you eventually find your sister? He has not. He has a TED talk out where he gives a short speech to her at the very end, it's extremely emotional. I just watched that Ted talk for the first time. It was really moving and msade me want to learn how families sign up for fostering Here's the [link](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nLeeTVmVrtA) if anyone is interested "And can I also make a small message to my mom?"

...not even Hitler could deny that request. :( I live in Gimcheon, South Korea and have volunteered for LiNK before as well as doing some work at the Mulmangcho (Refugee/Relocation) School in Yeoju, so I have had some contact with younger-to-teen North Koreans before, but rarely are they outspoken and knowledgeable enough to get insight from.

There is one aspect I've been wondering about lately, and that is how the North Korean media and North Korean people view South Korea as a whole. 

Do they take a militaristic, angry stance very often, and talk about taking over the country by force?

 Or do they feel as many of the older South Koreans do - that the two countries are still one people, and that someday peaceful re-unification should happen?

I have been to the DMZ multiple times, and I really hope someday the bridge with all of the South Korean's long-lost notes to their North Korean relatives can be taken down.

 Well, I guess one thing I can say is that it is true that more and more young South Korean youth are becoming less and less motivated about the country to be united. I think this is what happens, in South Korea, even young people know that the real exchange is something we must achieve in the future, they know it's the right thing to do, but I don't think they are as motivated. So I think that's the biggest part. And also South Korean older generations, they were really dealing with working on their own way to achieve their success, whatever it was. I don't think they had enough time to educate and emphasize the unification for their children. And I also think South Korea, because it's such a competitive society there, everyone has to work really hard. They don't have as much time to think about ideas like unification. I think it's something that is hard to think about. But we just don't know how reunification is going to happen. 

I think in general, North Koreans don't see South Korean people as enemies. Because the schools taught that we should love and respect South Korean people. They are just in a bad place with their government. Their government is American, so they definitely have hatred toward the politicians, but not necessarily towards the average South Korean. We realize they are our brothers and sisters.  &gt;Their government is American, so they definitely have hatred toward the politicians, but not necessarily towards the average South Korean. We realize they are our brothers and sisters.

That's beautiful to hear.  Until you realize that "the evil American government" part is all bullshit. Just like an evil American bastard to point that out. How much of what we read in the western news about north korea is not true or is propaganda, would you estimate?

Like:  Kim Jung executing a member of government for falling asleep  or  the recent Sony/American hacks I mean, in terms of what's going on in the government, we don't know because we don't have access to information as far as I know. I think it's just kind of interesting that Western media speculates stories based on mostly on assumptions. We really don't know how much is going on in North Korea from a political perspective. We all know it is a terrible place for common North Korean people.  I have a similar question so I'll ask it here.

Have you seen many western documentaries about North Korea, like the one that Vice News did on HBO (season 1.  I think episode 9 or 10)?

Are these documentaries accurate portrayals of life in North Korea?  If not, what do you think they get wrong? Western documentaries about North Korea that don't focus on the defectors are almost always about Pyongyang, the capital of North Korea, because that's one of the few places North Korea allows you to visit. That's where the elites, ie. the 1% of North Koreans, live, and everything a foreigner sees in that city is heavily curated by the authorities. If you watch enough documentaries or even simple travelogues, you start seeing a pattern where the exact same sites are visited by different people even though they went years apart. Furthermore, people allowed to live in Pyongyang, let alone interact even a bit with Westerners, are people who have been carefully selected by the regime. 

In other words, documentaries about North Korea are not representative of the average North Korean experience at all.  I'm not a big Vice fan, but the Inside North Korea documentary was one of the best Doc's I've seen. I think Vice is hit or miss, I've seen some really poorly sourced information on there, but the documentaries done by the group that did the NK documentary are typically very good. If you haven't seen it they have a follow-up one where they look at the Russian/NK border that shows how Russia supports and gives money to NK  Have you ever been to South Korea, or met South Koreans? How do they usually react when they find out you are from North Korea? I have not been able to go to South Korea yet, even though I am allowed to. But I have met many South Korean people. Especially students that are studying abroad. And I would say their reaction varies, but mostly they are surprised to learn that there are North Korean defectors living in the US. And I think living in the US, I have seen being a defector here has some benefits, because they are not necessarily targeted or discriminated against as being North Korean defectors, whereas in South Korea there can be prejudice and discrimination against North Korean defectors. One thing to describe is that North Koreans in early 1970's, South Korean society was very developed, so you can only imagine how difficult it must be for two communities to be engaged. So living in America, I have been treated by South Koreans and Americans as a friend.  That makes me happy. It's a shame the world can be cruel to people for having the misfortune of being born into bad circumstances. It's important to see everyone as a person.  What does the youth do with their free time? I mean, I became homeless at a very young age, so I don't really know what is a traditional activity for youth. But according to what I observed, hanging out with their friends, outdoors more than in America, because in North Korea there is no internet, no computers, not much video games or things that you have in the U.S. So I'm assuming there were more outdoor activities, such as exploring the city.  How did you manage to connect with LiNK, when arriving in China? At what point did you start feeling safe again? What do you consider your home now? Well, I was able to be connected with LiNK through South Korean missionaries. And where do I consider to be home? Now I consider Richmond to be my home in the U.S. because that's where I settled down first in the States. It was probably about 4 months while I was waiting in American Consulate. Because when I was in American Consulate in China, there were armed security agents, and I felt very protected because I knew they would protect us.  How are relations like with other Koreans in Virginia? If you go to a Koreatown does an accent identify you as North Korean? I've heard that Koreans in South Korea have prejudice toward Northern refugees trying to assimilate there, have you encountered any such behavior in the United States? I can help with a few of your questions. I currently volunteer with and am a teacher for North Korean defectors in Busan. 

Speaking in general, there are still many South Koreans who harbor bad feelings toward North Korea and, by extension, North Koreans. This can and does carry over to North Koreans who have managed to make it to South Korea and decided to stay. 

Some of the stereotypes are that North Koreans are lazy, brutish, violent, liable to be criminals, etc. 

Generally the first thing North Koreans get when they arrive in South Korea is Korean lessons, partly so they can learn the many loanwords common to modern South Korean lexicon, as well as to hide their Northern accents. 

So to answer your question, yes, the North Korean accent can and is noticed by southern Korean speakers as well as those of the Korean diaspora, assuming native fluency in Korean. 

Another interesting tidbit is that there are well over 25,000 NKD (North Korean Defectors) in South Korea but only about 100 in America. 

This means that most Koreans in the US would never expect to run into a NKD the same way Koreans do in South Korea. 

Of course, this isn't a substitute for a real answer from OP but it's something! Sounds like you're doing good work, congrats.

Also, Busan is awesome. I really like it up in Seoul but if I were going to be anywhere else in SK it'd be Busan. How does the North Korean accent differ from the South Korean one?  Or from the way people speak in Seoul, for instance? Another person living in korea here: accents are different and some words are different. The words that are different are mainly words that developed after the split, so a lot of words referring to technological things that the south Koreans use "Konglish" (mixture of korean and english) for that didn't develop in the north.  That's interesting!  Does anyone here know if the same thing happened in East Germany? Not so much, because German is already a collection of linked regional dialects anyway.  The differences were more cultural than linguistic. This cool app sums it up nicely,  
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ym3HnjBxPsw Come to Los Angeles and visit Koreatown! You'll love it. Hit me up if you need a tour guide :) Do you get the opportunity to meet up with other North Koreans that have resettled in the US?  Yes, I do.

I mean, America is a really big country, as you know. So it is quite difficult for us to physically be near. But we can also stay in touch through telephones, or social media.  Hi Joseph.

I'm really excited to read your book and it's great that you're supporting link with it!

What do North Koreans learn about European countries, if they learn anything at all?
I know they learn a lot about Japan, China, South Korea and America, but in no book or article have I ever found a Korean perspective about European countries. Are they educated enough to know European countries, do they know the typical stereotypes (eg Germans wear leather pants and it always rains in Britain etc)? 
Thank you and good luck! Well, based on my experience, I didn't really go to Middle School or High School, so I don't know if High school learned about Europe. But I can say that there is a really limited concept or even images of Europe. Because North Korean government is heavily emphasizing how bad Japan and America are, because there was so little information about Europe, I don't think they didn't even have stereotypes of Europeans. For example, when I was in China, because I was offered to come to America, I wanted to learn more about America, so I decided to find an American movie so I could learn about the country. And it was in Chinese, so I didn't understand the movie, and a Chinese friend came to me and said "What are you trying to do?" and I said "Trying to learn about America" and he said "Well, this is a German movie." That is how little i knew. In my mind, I thought it was American movie because there were white actors.  I believe coming from North Korea or even China, Germany and America are so much alike that it's a good approximation anyway. Thank you very much for taking the time to do this AMA. It's important that people know about the things happening in the world, to human beings, right this moment. Too often people in the west believe that violent nationalist totalitarianism is something that stopped with the end of the cold war.

That said, what aspects of North Korean culture do you feel most proud of? Are there any cultural aspects you find yourself missing now you are in the USA?

Similarly, if people in North Korea were able to freely share their culture and expression with the rest of the world, what do you think would be the country's biggest cultural export?  That's a bit of a tough question. But i think one thing that i kind of miss is that back in North Korea, before the economic collapse, there was much more communal sharing. And I feel like everyone was really sharing with each other. I think North Koreans used to be more communal and family-oriented, celebrating the holidays together.

I mean, again, I am going to speak from my experience, but I don't think freedom of expression or freedom of religion - for me, when I lived in North Korea, all I worried about was getting food. So I don't know what North Koreans would say, but I can say that having been so isolated for so many years, even though nowadays there is much more foreign media smuggled through underground organizations, I feel that North Koreans could take a bit of time to figure out what freedom really means. For example, when I was in China, I was offered to come to US, and I said "no" because I was told that in North Korea, the US is our enemy state and we have to destroy it someday. So I said "no" first, and then the person who offered me told me to discuss this opportunity, so I went back to my underground church pastor, and I asked him "Why should I go to America?" and he said because i could continue my education, and the second thing is that I could have freedom. And that didn't catch my ear, because I knew what freedom was, but until he was elaborating what freedom *WAS* - I could go outside anytime I wanted to go out (because when I was in China, I was hiding, and then I stayed in an apartment for so long, so going outside was something luxurious). That was a real turning point for me.  Chinese here. It's a shame how our government treats the north korean defectors. I'm glad that you got out successfully! I know you're not the one doing the AMA, but if you don't mind, is that changing or no? I mean, I read a few months ago that Chinese officials allowed North Koreans through instead of handing them over to NK, so is this just an isolated incident, or is it gradually becoming Chinese policy for how to handle this situation?

[Source 1](http://news.sky.com/story/1317909/n-korean-defectors-held-on-laos-border)

[Source 2 (which says that the defectors were released to go to SK)](http://www.nknews.org/2014/10/north-korean-defectors-laos-south-korea-bound-after-release/) This reminded me of an interview I saw with Ladysmith Black Mambazo and Paul Simon, about working together originally, back when Apartheid was still in force in South Africa.  They recorded in New York, and the band at some point told Paul and his people that they wanted to visit some places like Central Park and so forth.  They asked how they should obtain permits to do so.  The response was confusion  why would you need a permit to visit Central Park?  It was an enlightening conversation from both sides. Speaking as a Chinese person, I am deeply sorry about the way we treat North Korean defectors. 

That along with the death penalty it is one of the two things I wish desperately that my home country will change. Thank you very much for your response.  In the books I've read it suggests a few times that North Koreans might just be aware of the state of their government and country all together but are too scared to even show the slightest knowledge of it. Would you say this is true or is the isolation really as heavy as it seems? I'm only unsure of this as I'm aware of the smugglers who move between the DPRK and China all the time.

ps. I look forward to reading your book and I wish you all the luck. :) I mean, yes. The way that North Korea keeps absolute control over its people was by limiting access to information. So definitely that is one way to control the society in the past. But I don't know how long that is going to last. I think that there would be a general consensus that things are bad. It's been almost 10 years since the great famine began, and over 1 million people have died of starvation. So it would not be completely illogical for people to think that there is something wrong about it.  Thank you for doing this Joseph! You are an inspiration and a beacon of hope in the world. Do you believe in this lifetime that we will be able to travel freely to North Korea? My father is 80 years old and left Hamhung just after WWII. He never speaks about having hope to go back, but I am curious to visit there one day. I hope that the day comes, when your father can go back. Sooner or later.

 I loved your video on TED!! Tears were shed...

What was the most surprising thing you've learned upon coming to America? When I was in American Consulate in China, I saw a car in the building. And I remember going to see that car more and more every day. I was hoping to have that car one day. But then I came to America, I realized that the same type of branding car was used as a taxi, and that was really surprising, because I thought that was the best car ever in the world.  I expected coming to America, thinking that I would end up in New York, with high buildings, tall buildings and really city, big cities. But I ended up going to Richmond, Virginia, where I realized that i was almost in the middle of a forest. The next morning I woke up, there was a deer around. That was confusing for us. Because the America I imagined was a *big* city, with really tall buildings. So that was also where I was surprised. I thought I did something wrong to be in some other place.  This made me chuckle because I grew up in a part of America that was, and still is very rural - literally in the middle of the forest. It was not unusual at all to have deer or bear walk right up to the house, and most years my father would hunt deer for food.

If you haven't yet experienced our more rural areas and lifestyle, I would encourage you to check it out sometime. There's really no freedom like a walk in the woods with no other people around for miles and miles.

Anyway, I'm glad you made it here, and I do hope that one day soon North Korea will know freedom and prosperity. And our national parks! Really one of the best things about America. I would encourage OP to visit Shenandoah National Park, it's not far from Richmond and it's so beautiful. Love the honesty and innocence in your reply. Maybe they think of America the way we looked at the Earth in the Matrix movies, just a wasteland of electric cities and evil and stuff. Did you ever end up buying a car like that? Link for the lazy / CTRL-F TED

http://www.ted.com/talks/joseph_kim_the_family_i_lost_in_north_korea_and_the_family_i_gained?language=en

Sorry if this was posted somewhere obvious but I couldn't find it posted in here.   What was/is the most difficult thing about transitioning to life here in the United States?
And if you could give the world one piece of advice for us to best assist the North Korean human rights situation, what would that be?

Thank you so much for doing this AMA and all your efforts to shed light on the human rights injustices going on in NK.  To find out what I like about, and what I don't like about, and what I wanted to do. Just to understand American society was probably the hardest part.

One thing I can recommend is just to respond. I think to know the situation. I think information is the key to helping the issue. I don't think many people know about the harshness and suffering that North Koreans face, so learning about that is probably the first step. And there are so many resources out there. There are FOI out there, so many documentaries about average North Korean lives, how difficult it is, even the small YouTube clips can be very informational, and i hope that would motivate people to respond to the issue.  Hi Joseph! I started a chapter of LiNK at my university, and we held a vote for which question to ask you. Here is our question:

What in your opinion is the most important thing (other than donating to LiNK and similar organizations like NKHR, etc.) that students in college can do to help North Korean defectors overall?

Thank you for doing this AMA and having the courage to share your story! We have shown your TED Talk in classrooms, LiNK chapter meetings and at fundraisers and it always has a really incredible effect on people. We love you and appreciate everything you do, and look forward to seeing what amazing things you do in the future! There is a chance he may have unknowingly overlooked it-- you should send him a PM of the question!  what is the largest black market profit to be made in NK? Would it be possible to improve conditions by the black market? In terms of the numbers, I am assuming that a lot of imports from foreign countries like China or Japan might be the biggest profit. But I don't have answers for that, I'm sorry.  did you find that life in general was improved by black markets in NK? What do you think of the idea of aid and regime change being encouraged by black markets? What were the pros of living in North Korea? We all know it sucks, but surely there must have been something positive to come out of it.  I mean, my answer is very biased, since I am from North Korea, it is still my home country. I think North Korea has beautiful nature, and there is so much resources that can be used to develop better economy for unified Korea.  [The DMZ has been credited recently](http://news.nationalgeographic.com/news/2013/08/pictures/130820-wildlife-korea-dmz-war-culture-biology-science/) for acting as a sort of preservation for plants and animals due to lack of human intervention. Animals that are normally rare to see in Asia are far more commonly seen at the DMZ Hi Joseph, 
Your biography has been really hard to put down! Thank you for your dedication in sharing your story for the North Korean people and for us. 
What has been the most lasting effect from living under the  regime to this day? I definitely have nightmares. And I think in a sense it actually helps me, because sometimes I forget how grateful I am to live in America, and whenever I have nightmares, it reminds me of where I have come from. And so that is probably one thing. 

And I think knowing that we have so much food here. But not being able to deliver that to so many homeless kids that live the life I was living only 8 years ago. So not being able to be so helpful can also be frustrating.  Thank you again for sharing! You're doing a wonderful job speaking out for, and representing those homeless youth. Keep up your fantastic work and know that you have so much support from around the world! Why did your mother and sister go to China without you? I guess it is extremely difficult to get out, and his mother had to make some very painful choices.  In Escape from Camp 14 Shin Dong-Hyuk describes his relationship with his family as really toxic (his family was planning to leave without him) and makes that out to be the norm. Of course, the critical distinction there is that he was in a labor camp, but there's a possibility it could have been a similar situation.  Is it difficult to find western, or non-North Korean, media and entertainment in underground markets? (dvds, films, newspapers, etc) Again, I am not currently living in North Korea, so I can't really say for currently, but what I have learned from recent defectors, I am told that access to foreign media, especially South Korean dramas and movies, are more accessible. And it's definitely easier than decades ago. So I would say it is getting easier.  If North Korea ever gets liberated, will you go back? He said yes in other questions. Here is the TED talk:    
http://www.ted.com/talks/joseph_kim_the_family_i_lost_in_north_korea_and_the_family_i_gained?language=en
 Do you think that the recent troop deployments by the Chinese along the Tumen River will impact the ability of North Koreans to escape, as well as hurt LiNK's ability to help them? Thank you :) I actually don't know the answer.  In your personal opinion, do you believe that Kim Jung-un is aware that he is failing his country? The execution of Jang Sung-taek showed the world that Kim Jung-un is ruthless, but do you believe that it also showed that he knows that he isn't a strong and beloved leader like Kim Jong-il or Kim Il-sung? Do you think that maybe Kim Jung-un knows that he cannot control North Korea and he is acting like this because he is afraid?     .              ,          .          !!       Joseph   . Praying for a reunified Korea. ~!! rough translation. "I'm american but I studied in Korea last year. When I was in Korea I took the DMZ tour, and saw how North Koreans lived. It was so moving/touching/profound/  that I decided to study Korean. I made a friend in Korea who was a north Korean defector, he often talked about you. (Joseph)"
 Do you think that Western media does a disservice to North Koreans when they focus on the absurdities of Kim Jung Un? Do you think it takes away from the everyday plight of North Koreans? If so what do you think the response should be? Have you seen The Interview? What did you think of it? What caused you to leave NK? Mostly because I didn't see much hope to survive in North Korea much longer, because at this point, I lived on the street as a homeless kid for about 3 years. And I could die of starvation like my father did, or try to escape North Korea for a better life.  I hear that a large majority of North Koreans inside the country consume western media smuggled in through flash drives. They often watch K-dramas, shows like "friends" and movies with friends illegally despite government crackdowns. 

If you could choose one movie or show for every North Korean citizen to see what would it be? 

What impact do you think it would it have? 

What movie, tv show, or book had the biggest impact on you?  Was you family ever targeted, also when you were defecting what was the closest you came to getting caught, or was your plan executed perfectly? What was your plan? What made you realize that the government was evil? How can the average person make a difference and bring freedom to North Korea? Did your mother and sister abandon you?  Do you have any intentions of finding them?   Hello! Thank you so much for doing this! I'm volunteering in South Korea at the moment and a topic that often pops up is if North and South Korea should be unified. What are your thought on that? What do think that would mean for both countries since they are so different now regarding politics, economy etc? If the two countries ever get unified, would you then move back to Korea? Wish you the best of luck in the future! I will definitely buy your book! Thanks for doing this AMA. I'm really interested in North Korea and only found out about this because I've donated to LiNK in the past and got an email from them.

What is the worst thing you've seen happen in North Korea? Have any strikes or riots been initiated by people who've had enough? On a lighter note, what is some of the good you've seen occur there? What are you most thankful for? This could be an experience, a moment, a person, etc. I can't imagine the life you've lived, but I'm inspired by how you talk about hope; and I'd love to know what you're most thankful for. 

I'm an English Teacher in South Korea, and I did a lesson on the DPRK with my students showing them your TED talk. I don't think many young students in South Korea know a lot about North Korea. Your talk was very enlightening for them. Thank you. Did you know of anyone who open spoke out against the government in North Korea? If so, what happened?
 I've read a few articles on your experience, and I'll definitely check out your book nextyou've been through an incredible amount of suffering, so I'm glad you were able to survive and escape. I think making your story public is very brave, so thank you for adding your voice.

Considering that you were thrown into such an ugly situation so young, can you share the happiest moment you can remember from your childhood? Hi Joseph, thanks for doing this AMA! There was a recent news article describing how North Korea will be entering into another state of famine. Do you think this, with the aid of government resentment, change the attitudes of the population? If things get truly desperate, would they be able to liberate themselves or continue enduring under the oppression? Have you read George Orwell's "1984"? how closely does life in North Korea match it? Did you hear about the New Jersey teen who went to North Korea presumably voluntarily)?

What do you think is happening to him right now? What are his chances of escaping? what can we learn from North Korean culture that we can bring to America to enjoy? What does your daily life look like now? Do North Korea-related events like this one take up most of your time, or do you get time to relax? What do you like to do for fun? What are your current goals/dreams for your future now that you are a US citizen? You've spoken about your experience several times but how was the process for writing a memoir? Was it a difficult process and what were some new thoughts you had as you tried to share a complete story of your life? A two part question here. What surprised you the most about the United a
States? And what's your favorite meal to eat in the states? Thanks How was your experience speaking at the UN?  Hello Joseph,
First I want to say that you are an inspiration to all of us. You are incredibly strong and I'm grateful that individuals like you exist, who are public figures for human rights.
What is the best strategy at this point in time suggest to liberating as many people as possible, while keeping as many refugees as possible alive during the rescue mission. Ex: Media infiltration/black market causing an inner revolution or one-by-one rescue or gaining international support of toppling the regime? Where should we invest the most? During the development of Banjo-Kazooie, what inspired you to have the player control a character duo instead of a single character?  [Steve Mayles] Banjo was already designed with a backpack and we needed a double jump, so we just had some wings come out of it. Then later we needed a fast run move so had some legs come out. Eventually it just made sense to have a whole character in there... it was never the plan to start with! ([Gavin Price:] This is a good example of naturally evolving game design) Ha, awesome! I can't imagine B-K without Kazooie's big head spewing sarcastic quips! Thanks for answering! [PECK-POCK-PECK-POCK-PECK-POCK-BREEEE-PECK-POCK-PECK-POCK-PECK-POCK-BREEEE-BREEEE-PECK-POCK-PECK-POCK](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TuBi7KJtqKE) Hey Playtonic Games! Your team has created some of my favourite games ever, from Banjo to the DKCs, so I'm super excited about Yooka-Laylee! I always appreciate the 'Rareware' humour and secrets scattered around your games. My question is, can we expect to see any easter egg nods to old Rareware games in Yooka-Laylee? Such as the banjo and kazooie instruments inside Yooka's home?  Only ones that don't get us sued. I still find this crazy that the people who created something can later be sued for referring to their old work. Copyrights are weird. I mean, a single person or entity has to own the rights, you can't give the rights to every single person involved. If everyone that worked on it had rights to use the ip all you'd have to do is hire 1 person from the team and then you'd be able to make your own legal Banjo Kazooie game.  Has Rare contacted you guys at all? If so, has it been positive or negative? [Gavin Price] Well Gregg Mayles sent his CV in the other day... joking! We still have friends at Rare, some of whom pop in to check on us from time to time. So far we've failed to persuade any of them to smuggle over honey from the on-site bee hive. In fairness, those are Manor Park's guard bees. Without the honey to keep them in check, the place would be ransacked in a week by hordes of aging fans. Will you guys add a "Title" to each boss before the fight starts? I loved those.  That was so great in Tooie. I hope they do that again, too. Banjo-Kazooie featured a fairly involved backstory about Gruntilda and Mumbo Jumbo.  For the uninitiated, Mumbo was her magic instructor, but she betrayed him and created the skull mask he wears to this day.  The story originally said that the mask could only be removed once she was defeated.

Of course, she's never been properly defeated, still hanging on as a skull.  There are a few things we can infer, though.  

Nosy Crow's Ed Bryan (character designer of Mumbo and others, on the core Banjo team) confirmed that Mumbo was originally a jinjo.  We ALSO know by way of Grunty's Revenge that her Lair originally had a giant stone Jinjo head instead of her own.

So was there ever any discussion about continuing this storyline into Tooie, or was it a forgotten-about artifact of B-K's early development?

As you can see, these are VERY important questions!

Chad M (DK Vine) It's also interesting to note that Mumbo and Gruntilda may have had a romantic relationship in the past, as shown during B-K's game over cutscene.  Mumbo comes in and asks Grunty to take him back, offering her a flower. This confirms it, this now needs to be replayed. Banjo Kazooie has the deepest lore, obviously. Wow, this is a really good question. I've been a BK fanatic for fifteen years and I've never known of this. I personally prefer Wendy's  The one question that needs answered is avoided -_-  I mean, what are we to believe, that this is some sort of a magic xylophone or something?  During your tenure at Rare, it was a notoriously secretive studio. Any juicy bits from those days you can reveal now?  Scrapped projects, internal drama, anything like that? Do Playtonic plan to maintain an air of mystery? Is secrecy a conscious choice or a side-effect of how you naturally operate?  

Thanks for doing this AMA! Super geeked for Y-K, and glad to see some of my all-time favorite game makers back together under one roof. [Chris Sutherland] Re: Internal drama: Towards the end of Donkey Kong Country, we had to prepare a build to send to Nintendo so we were working all days - it was a Saturday morning and I awoke to hear a noise at my window, which was odd as I was in a first floor flat. It was Gregg Mayles and Tim Stamper throwing stones at my window! I had overslept and they had driven around to wake me up! I rushed in and Tim had bought a fast food breakfast and placed it on my desk so I could get started typing right away! For the Americans:

1st floor = 2nd floor

Our 1st floor is their ground floor.  That sounds like a great contradiction for a potential Ace Attorney case. I remeber this being used to break someones alibi in case closed Was wondering why they would be throwing rocks when they could just knock on the window. For the programmers:

1st floor = floor[1]

Their ground floor is our floor[0]. *Thank you* I love these kinds of stories, thank you for sharing! How many eyes does Trowser have? Definitely two. He needs to have one. He does have one.  He just also has another one. Calm down there, Mitch Hedberg. You've mentioned in passing that Yooka's color change ability might change his properties. Is that basically to say that Yooka's colors will be like Kazooie's shoes only they don't disable your other moves? Like if you became stone you'd still be able to roll albeit slower and with more wall knock downery. [Andy Robinson] Well done: We are absolutely going to use the phrase "wall knock downery" in the game. RemindMe! 516 days "Check game for phrase, 'wall knock downery'" RemindMe! 517 days "Check Reddit for post of the game with the phrase, wall knock downery shown"

 If all goes well, and Yooka Laylee gets a sequel, will you call it Twooka Laylee? Which would be followed by Yooka Laythree, natch. Don't forget Yooka Laylee: Nails and Screws. ALWAYS forget Nails and Screws. That sounds like some kind of Rule 34 version. In Banjo Kazooie there is an audio file that isn't coded to anything, it's just in the sound archive of two guys saying "Steven Mayles, boys and tails" and it's been heavily slowed down. What does this actually mean and why is it in the game? If you watch the [Game Grumps episode with Grant Kirkhope](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=t70l-9n1rCQ), they mention that some of the sound effects (character speech, I believe) were made by cutting up vocal samples and reordering the parts - perhaps this is one of the samples that gets mangled. Direct timestamp in the episode: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=t70l-9n1rCQ&amp;t=7m20s [Steve Mayles] Ask Grant. Exactly the sort of deflective non-answer we should expect from the nefariously shady Mr. Mayles.

 #BoysAndTailsGate #WinkyTruther #InsideJob \#BushDidEekumBokum  #JetForceGeminiCantMeltJiggies Fire eggs can't melt steel beams &gt; "Steven Mayles, boys and tails"

Youtube video and Grant Kirkhopes Twitter reaction: https://twitter.com/grantkirkhope/status/606144455523958784 https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7E_Sbgs9LH0 Sounds like poison pales to me Will the main antagonist for yooka laylee rhyme? [Andy Robinson] Well dear redditer, that question's the best, and to your point, the answer is... maybe. Your answer has me wondering if the villian speaks in iambic pentameter instead of rhymes...  also kinda of sounds like they will try to rhyme and always mess up the last word This would be amazing. We've seen so far a Jungle world and concept art for an Ice world. Both look spectacular, and I can't wait to explore every corner of them! Will we also see levels that are more strange in nature, like Clanker's Cavern (based around a giant garbage shark) and Witchyworld (an evil theme park)?

Thanks for the AMA! [Gavin Price] Yes. Awesome! I can't wait to hear more about what you evil geniuses have come up with :) Fucking love Terrydactyland Aw, man, I loved Witchyworld. Hope there's something sorta similar in YL. How did you all feel about the general reception of Banjo-Kazooie: Nuts and Bolts?  Are you happy with the way BK was used in that game?  I know not all of you had a part in its development.  I personally love it, but the game receives a lot of flak, and I can't help but feel that it would receive *less* hate if it didn't have Banjo-Kazzoie in it.  People expect it to be Banjo-Threeie, which it is not.   This is the question we all came here to ask.  And evidently one he didn't come here to answer. I had never played the earlier games but I absolutely love Nuts and Bolts. I have a friend who had loved the series from the beginning and was very disappointed with N&amp;amp;B. To me and my son N&amp;amp;B is one of the all time best games ever, especially on the xbox, and I really think that the disappointment is a case of people's expectations interfering with their ability to enjoy the game. It really is too bad as that game was so completely unique and so inspired that I think many people gave up on one of the all time greats.  If they said from the start they were making a car racing game featuring banjo that would have probably been decently received. But they initially had strong implication of it being a new platformer. There was even a small teaser trailer that showed Banjo/Kaazooie and some collectibles on mountain tops. 

Then a year or so later it's revealed to be a car game out of no where. 

The general reaction was a grumbly 'fine. . . ok, guess I'll still get it'.

Then when turning on the game it's treated fully as the next installment for the series, not just a 'mario kart' like spinoff. They go over the backstory etc. 

Then the game begins. . . *as a platformer*. This lasts a few minutes before a robot suddenly appears and tells you collecting things and platforming "isn't what the gamers want" and gives you cars isntead.

It was multiple face slaps in secession really. So while the gameplay wasn't awful by any measure, it was really soured by how they handled it.  As the creators of the original DK Countrys, how do you feel about the rebooted series on the wii/wiiu? [Mark Stevenson] Retro has done a really great job of capturing the spirit of the originals. I wish there were more Kremlins though! Oblique references to Wrinkly's final words. That's Playtonic for yah. What is the creative process like?  Banjo-Kazooie and the DKC series are such detailed games with witty dialog, scenic environments, and easter eggs galore!  It seems like no ideas ever get cut from the final product. [Gavin Price] We don't try and make the entire game all up front - we evolve ideas as development progresses and the need for them arises. If you do it that way, you can spin new ideas off the back of your work in progresses. In comparison, I feel that planning everything up front can sometimes restrict your creativity. Hey Playtonic! Your team is behind some of the most amazing games of all time and I am so excitied to see what Yooka-Laylee has to offer. Anyways, I have a few questions if you would be so kind.  
1. What is the philosophy your team lives by when making a game?   
2. What is a genre of video games you have not taken on that your team would be interested in trying down the road?   
3. What do you think about the modern video game community as a whole? Is the community more toxic? Any improvement?   
That is all I have. Thanks for being here and I hope you like the r/yookalaylee subreddit we made for your work. We all wish Playtonic the best in luck for all you do! 1. Gameplay first.
2. Survival horror... in a volcano!
3. Our community is one of the most positive places on the internet. &gt; Survival horror

Oh hell yeah! Donkey Kong Darkness Darky kong Danky Kang: 2Spoopy4Me Edition Which Kazooie and Tooie worlds are your personal favourites? [Steve Mayles] I've always liked Treasure Trove Cove because you got to fly for the first time, which was a great moment. Jolly Roger's Lagoon is my fav in Tooie because Captain Blackeye made an appearance - originally he was drunk but we had to change it to seasick! I spent hours and hours in Treasure Trove Cove just flying around. I'd go eat supper.. then run back to fly some more. It was the first 3D platformer with a real flying mechanic - Mario only glided.

I didn't care much about level progression..But you can bet I was thrilled with the bee transformation later on! I spent years playing around in levels. Years.

Now You Can Fly High In The Sky

I still remember that cheat.

Ah.. and now Click Clock Wood's spring theme is stuck in my head. Oh god yes, turning into the bee! When I was little I didn't even play the rest of the game, I would just go to Click Clock Woods and fly around for hours. I've heard mixed things about this. Was he originally the protagonist in Project Dream or was he a villain or side character of sorts? What's the creative process behind coming up with all the grunts and guffaws that make up every individual characters voice? [Chris Sutherland] Honestly, we just make stupid noises in the office and see which ones get the most laughs! I'm a little disappointed that this response wasn't "REE RA REE" /r/EnlightenedBirdmen Will we see a very specific fish tapping on a bowl? [Gavin Price] Such an incredible character deserves their own game! Just thought I'd throw this out here. I would love to play as the fish if you ever decide to create another DKR type racing game in the Playtonic universe as an unlockable character. In his bowl. On wheels.  Any idea if the original N64 version of Dinosaur Planet is out there somewhere...? I was so crushed when half the content got cut and it was turned into a Star Fox game. It was good, but I wanted the original. [Gavin Price] I remember playing it a lot, but it was never completed on N64. The framerate was pretty bad at that early stage! Maybe Tim Stamper has a version somewhere. On a related note, where is the team that was responsible for Star Fox Adventures' graphics? That game had some of the best graphics on the Gamecube, and I'm curious where that talent has ended up. In Banjo-Kazooie, does the picture in banjo's house represent the original concept of the game like rumored? Or is it something else? [Steve Mayles] I think one of them may have been from Dream, yes. What other animal combinations did you have before deciding on a chameleon and bat? [Steve Mayles] My initial idea was a tiger as they are great-looking animals, but he never got past the sketch phase. He was deemed a bit too much of a hero when all of my past characters were more like underdogs. We even tried a witch and a broom with eyes at one point! &gt; We even tried a witch and a broom with eyes at one point!

Alternate universe Grunty. I guess Timber could have been used for reference lol http://www.mariowiki.com/Timber For more on Timber: 
http://dkvine.com/games/dkr/characters/timber.html

Rooowr! This discussion exploded at Playtonic forums without end in sight, save the day: Will the game use blob or dynamic shadows? [Jens Restemeier] We're going to have both. Argument solved! Blob helps with platforming and dynamic will kill the framerate. "N64 mode" at 8-12 FPS confirmed! Thumb blisters not included. This character appears in some of the DKC2 promo art, but isn't actually in the game:

http://donkeykong.wikia.com/wiki/Mr._X

What's his story? [Steve Mayles] He was replaced with the giant skeleton that chases you on the fairground level. It's great to finally have this mystery solved! Thanks! I love how this answer caused a wiki to be changed. Ooh, I've always wanted to know this one myself. I also want to know what's the deal with the [fedora wearing Kong](http://24.media.tumblr.com/tumblr_l1wrpmNlqq1qbj9xwo1_r1_500.jpg) from the Donkey Kong Land promo art, too! 

**EDIT**: Huh, looks like "Mr. X" was a grunt after all, cool!  Are you guys gonna try and push the limit with immature humour in this game?? [Andy Robinson] We're aiming for an E10 rating... so whatever we can get away with! The Trowzer Snake is a great start! Trowzer Snakez Rule! I'm counting on you to create Trunker-type diolague from Gobi's Valley, Andy! 2 questions from me, sorry to make life difficult
Do you have any other characters planned out so far that you're ready to reveal?
Also do you have any concept ideas planned for the main villain(s) on what kind of creature he/she/they will be? [Andy Robinson] yes and yes. I've heard about a few of the BT worlds that were originally planned to be in BK.  Are there any other worlds that were worked on or at least planned for BK and BT that didn't make the final games? [Mark Stevenson] There was definitely nothing worked on. I think Crystal Caves in DK64 might have originally started off as a Banjo-Kazooie world though. Great to know!  Thank you for the reply! Hey guys. I'm just gonna put this out there. What's with the hidden penis in Banjo-Kazooie? Big fan btw. [Gavin Price] Steven Hurst claims the Terrydactyland one was an accident. The rest he probably snuck it, the cheeky git. Pictures plz Wait hold on what? I guess [this](http://i.imgur.com/j01PO.jpg) was "Unintentional". I read that it was unintentional and had never heard of this before. I opened your link thinking it would just KINDA look like a penis. Then I saw it and burst out in laughter.  And it happens right after mumbo uses "Enlarge" magic. Where did Tooty disappear to in Tooie? http://banjokazooie.wikia.com/wiki/Rubbish_video_game_character_police You're charging $15 for the base game. Should we assume that to give us a sense of how big the game will be? Or can we expect a game as big as a full priced Banjo-Kazooie? Something in the middle perhaps? [Gavin Price] $15 is a special Kickstater price. The aim is, with the amazing support we've had from fans, to now make Yooka-Laylee bigger than Banjo-Kazooie. I do believe that is entirely possible.  If you had one of Banjo &amp; Kazooie's abilities in real life, which would you want to have? [Gavin Price] Wonderwing so I could walk into people down the highstreet. Pooping eggs would save on the shopping bill too. confirmed: Kazooie doesn't lay eggs, she poops them. Do any of you guys hold the secrets to actually obtaining the secret eggs and the ice key in Banjo Kazooie? 

I don't care if they are completely useless. I just want them.  [Gavin Price] I didn't get to use SNS in Tooie, but I did get to bring the ice key into DK64 as a tester! That feature was canned obviously. Followup - what happened when you "brought it in"?  I remember seeing beta screenshots of DK's treehouse with what looked like a B-K refrigerator. Was that used to keep the key from melting? Some people actually dug DEEP into DK64's code and found this, just text of course, and a menu icon. The hacking that's gone on for Rare N64 games is astonishing. Obviously? You mean I spent the last 15 years frivolously trying to get these items? You bastards. You can get them pretty easily, but yeah, they don't do anything. Find the codes [here](http://banjokazooie.wikia.com/wiki/Stop_%27n%27_Swop).

Finding this out was one of the most memorable, most exciting things I can remember growing up.   You can get them by using codes in the sandcastle in Treasure Trove Cove.  Grant Kirkhope once told me to ask Robin Beanland about "Baldy Nozz"...what does this mean? [Steve Mayles] That's a nickname for [fellow Rare composer] Graeme Norgate. I think it came about when one day Grant was calling out 'baldy!' at Graeme and at that exact moment Chris Stamper - who is also bald - walked in, so he had to quickly stick 'Nozz' on the end. For those unfamiliar with Northern English nicknaming conventions, anyone who has a name beginning with "Na" or "No" will generally be referred to as Nozz at some. Hence, Norgate becoming Nozz.  Will there be a DRM-free version (GOG)? [Gavin Price] Watch this space. Any of you had some experience with Unity before working on Yooka-Laylee? If not, how difficult/easy was it to learn it? What is your favourite thing about working with this engine? [Jens] I worked with Unity 4 before. It's useful because you can start making your game straight away without wasting any time. What tips do you have for aspiring game developers? [Gavin Price] Go and make something - even if it's a mod - and if it's good you'll get noticed. Unity and Unreal are both free and have lots of tutorials and learning resources, no better time than the present! Quote: "collectables will not be as 'tedious' as in DK64" 
Banjo Tooie introduced "note nests" I honestly thought it was a step backwards from "notes" in Banjo-Kazooie.
I actually loved DK64 for the many collectables (coins, fairies, bananas, golden bananas) 
Will "every nook and cranny collectors" be happy with the end result? It adds major replay value. I kind of agree.  BK had it pretty right, but BT took a step back.  I think DK was overwhelming, however.  Right. 100 notes. 10 jiggies and 5 jinjos were solid, I like finding everything but not if there are a million things.  I just hated having to scour each level five different times with each character. The recently Betwittered Tim Stamper said he has a copy of B-K's SNES predecessor "Dream" in some form or another.  Do you recall if that game ever got to any semblance of a playable state?

Not that we condone ROM dumping or anything. Perish the thought.

Ahem. 

(Chad from off of DK Vine) Did Microsoft kill Rare?  [Gavin Price] From my perspective Microsoft were always really supportive and positive. All of the creative decisions since the buyout were made by Rare management and Microsoft backed them. There are a lot of talented people at Rare and we're really looking forward to seeing what they've got to show at E3.  Very PC. Aka the management at Rare went to poop and Microsoft supported it. What has been your favourite game to develop for and what has been your least favourite?  [Jens] Fav: DKC for GBC because it was my first. Least Fav: DK Pilot, because the tilt controls were broken! Are we going to get any special mechanics for the Wii U version that make use of the gamepad? Is there a chance of a new trailer at E3?  We've seen what they can do in just three months.  Imagine the fully-realized worlds they'll be able to show off after FOUR AND A HALF months! How fat is the main antagonist?  Any plans for controller support in the PC version of the game? We're currently playing using Xbox 360 controllers! hello....congratulations for all of you...my question is for Chris Sutherland, please answer me..... do you like your previous work in Killer instinct? and now that you are not part of rare, you will continue to work as the voice of the announcer, for futures seasons or games of the franchise? i know is a yooka laylee AMA sorry but i need to make this questions. Best witches for everyone and i'm waiting anxiously your game.... greeting from Chile!! [Chris Sutherland] I really enjoyed the previous Killer Instinct work - although it did make me a bit hoarse after each recording session as it usually involved a lot of shouting! I was an alternative announcer in the Killer Instinct reboot by Double Helix and Iron Galaxy, which was fun to record too! I don't know any info about future plans for that franchise though! C-C-C-C-COMBO BREAKER!

Your voice is hype, man. Will there be some type of quiz show at the end of Yooka-Laylee? [Andy Robinson] Yes and we have some clever ideas for it... ! First of all, Im a huge Rareware fan and I havent been so excited for a game since the N64/Gamecube era. Couple of questions. 

1.	The coins with the start button on it, do they have the same function as the musicnotes in Banjo? And is this their final look? 
2.	In Banjo, you needed to open a new world with jigsaws. Do you need to place the pages into a book before  you open a new world in Yooka-Laylee?
3.	Is there a Yooka Laylee Mumbo Jumbo in every world? I really like to transform into the strangest things again. 
4.	Which kind of worlds can we expect? I really liked the more dark worlds in Banjo. Mad Monster Mansion (L).
5.	Besides Grant Kirkhope playing the Ukelele, are you also showing us some new characters/gameplay at E3? 

Good luck and I cant wait till I get my hands on the game. Ive been waiting for this for the past 15 years. 
 Which football club(s) do you guys support? just curious =) We all support West Ham. How the hell do you guys keep the quality of your games so consistent?

At Rare, you guys couldn't miss the mark. Even games outside of platforming like Diddy Kong Racing were top-notch.

Also, how much faith do you guys actually have in the current team at Rare? Gregg Mayles is obviously a legend, but is there enough talent behind him to create another great platforming game?

Thanks loads for doing this AMA! Looking forward to Yooka-Laylee. By disappearing for a few years at a time. One of my favorite things about Rare games, and the Banjo games in particular, is the sense of mythology in regards to material that was cut or reworked, but still left in the game unintentionally adding an air of mystery (e.g. Stop 'n' Swop, Ice Key, Sharkfood Island, Captain Blackeye, etc.), as well as a feeling that the worlds were organic and there was always more to discover. The playful coyness about it all always made it better, too. Can you speak a little on that (with a little less coyness), and if we can expect anything similar in Yooka-Laylee?

Also, what are your legal bounds as far as references to Rare IP in Yooka-Laylee? I'd like to lay something close to your heart, something that some developers never think about if it doesn't affect them: making the game playable for handicapped people by giving the ability to remap the controls for non-ablebodied hands.
In an interview you already mentioned a jinjo-equivalent audio-based puzzle (the ghost writers?), which is fine of course as they can be found regularly as well. But there isn't much that can be done for the hearing impaired people, but reduce high frequency sounds to lower ones, reducing unnecesary ones and loudening up the important but quieter ones.
And lastly colorblindness. It's a bright and cheerful game, but the graphic team might want to check out what it looks like with various colorblindness filters and adapt it at least somewhat to it, or actually implement a colorblind mode for the more common types there are.
None of these things have to be implemented of course, as especially the audio one would more than double the workload.

**What will be done for handicapped players?** [Gavin Price] This is something that's incredibly important to us and we're actively listening to handicapped fans to make sure our game is as accessible as possible to them. We've already planned features and settings based around this feedback. In fact, our world artist Steven Hurst is colour blind. He says that's why we have pink trees. &gt; our world artist Steven Hurst is colour blind. He says that's why we have pink trees.

Cheeky with a hint of dark humour, this is why I love you guys. who had the idea for the company playtonic games? and had you contact to the other people all time? what think the team about speedruns of old rare games? do you hope that people speedrun yooka laylee? [Gavin Price] I started in testing so I've always really liked speedruns. We'll definitely be putting something in the game for them at some point. You've famously* claimed to have beat DK64 101% on a daily basis whilst in testing. Seems an impossible feat even for the likes of AGDQ.  No doubt you've got a few tricks up your sleeve.

*your definition of "famously" may vary from mine. I am actually a DK64 speedrunner and can confirm that currently the Record for 101% is 6 hours 9 minutes and 50 seconds. So it is doable :p If nintendo asked you to work on another Donkey Kong Country would you do it? If a magic wizard came in to the Playtonic studio right now (with extra googly eyes), and you could have the game finished by magic tomorrow, would you want to?

Or is the process of making the game a big enough thrill, and enjoyable enough, to outweigh the hardships, stress, and months of hard graft? If there are dinosaurs in the game is there any chance they can have feathers like everyone knows they actually did? Leathery dinosaurs were cool in DKR, Tooie and Dinosaur Planet, but wouldn't it be cool to have more modern dinosaurs should you use them a 4th time? [Mark Stevenson] I've already designed a dinosaur and I'm afraid he doesn't have feathers. Too many polygons. Wait...didn't Kazooie...ahh nevermind. Why does Steve(n) have the nickname Winky?  Is it an affinity for the enormous frog, or is he just extremely precocious?

Thanks in advance for answering this and all the other hard-hitting questions. 

Chad M (DK Vine) [Steve Mayles] I honestly don't know. It's just Grant being a plonker. He also calls me 'Sluggy', which isn't very nice. What is the official word on the content included in the Kickstarter reward tiers from 30  55?  The phrasing implies that those tiers come with both a console and PC copy, however the recently launched alternate PayPal-backing page doesn't include the same phrasing.  The communication from Playtonic has been and still is mixed, and I feel this would be a good opportunity to straighten things out.

I feel that if those tiers don't come with both a PC and console copy, that's fine, but I think the Kickstarter reward tier descriptions should be updated to reflect that. [Chris Sutherland] Unfortunately Kickstarter won't allow us to update the actual reward text post-launch, but if you check the reward graphic on our Kickstarter page that should be a bit more clear. Thanks for your support. Would you support Yooka &amp; Laylee being featured in Smash? "would you support your characters getting free advertisment" ? Will Jon Jafari be doing any voicework for Yooka-Laylee? For those who don't know who that is, Jon Jafari is commonly as [JonTron](https://www.youtube.com/user/JonTronShow) on YouTube. He has uploaded an excellent [review of Banjo and Kazooie: Nuts and Bolts](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=l69BP1uhlMs), and generally produces excellent videos.

If you still don't know who he is.. Then I'm sorry, because you've missed some hilarious content. Go check it out!

Furthermore, I believe the question above arose from a few tweet exchanges between Jon and the Playtonic Team about him voicing a character in the game. Would be pretty cool if he did.

Edit:[ The tweets can be found here](https://i.imgur.com/iXQTjnv.jpg)

Edit 2: Added relevant links.
 Also they had grant on game grumps I mean, they straight up asked him to voice a character and Jon agreed to it on twitter back at the reveal.

Why is this the top question? You are correct. [Twitter link](https://twitter.com/PlaytonicGames/status/567435283332079616) &amp; [screen cap](http://imgur.com/iXQTjnv). 1) Were there any original name/main character idea for Yooka-LayLee?

2) What do you think of DKC Returns(and its 3DS port) and Tropical Freeze, knowing you didn't develop it? Is there anything that you've always wanted to include in a past game but never had the chance to? 

Huge fan of your games. [Chris Sutherland] A chameleon and a bat. I don't believe you! You had mentioned you talked about making other games after Yooka-Laylee. Would you ever consider a spiritual successor to Battletoads (for those that don't own an Xbox One), Conker, Diddy Kong Racing or Golden Eye etc? Hey Playtonic, what inspired the design of Yooka? With the other sort of partner based platformers, the bigger character always had a characteristic article of clothing (tie, shirt and hat, shorts and backpack).

Is there an reasoning behind Yooka not having any distinctive article of clothing? Or is that a design portion that might be obtained layer and is still in the design process? Have you thought of any ideas to use the GamePad in the Wii U version? And have you made any progress on the Amiibo front (I know that part is very unlikely)? 

Also, is there any chance of more merchandise? I'd love a Yooka-Laylee soft toy. Actually, I'd absolutely love a Banjo-Kazooie soft toy, but I doubt I'll be able to get hold of one.

I spent a bit too much money backing the game, but I'm sure it will be worth it when it comes. Firstly, big BIG fan. Your work is my childhood. Just thank you.

Second, I have two questions. 

1. You have set a goal of October 2016 for this games release. Was that based around your inital game without the stretch goals or with that included? If it is without, do you anticipate/ are you willing to have the game being pushed back so you can complete everything rather than deliver an unfinished product? 

2. Can you discuss anything about how the levels expand with more Pages? Is it that you start off in say Zone A and then Zone B, which was previously blocked, gets opened (with the area being off to the side of the map)? Is it a start in the center and open rings around the map to make it bigger? Or is it more substantial than that? (My favorite idea is going with the block theme you sort of have is that when you get enough pages, all the blocks shift and it uses old blocks and new ones to create a new map meaning you can walk through it noticing old things from the small map that feel completely new [complicated, but awesome]).

Honestly, I don't really mind about the specifics, if you make the same quality as I have always received from you then I will enjoy the final product for many years to come. 

Thank you again for making my childhood amazing for you were the bulk of it. Are you guys ever gonna make another game like Conkers Bad Fur Day?  I know this is over, but I really wanted to say this.

Back when I was young and I first bought Banjo-Kazooie, my mum and I would sit down and play it every afternoon to try and beat it, she used to print off a walk through and follow it so strictly.
It's one of my fondest memories of her.
I lost her in 2010 to lung cancer and to this day, my best memories are of her and I playing Banjo-Kazooie, Donkey Kong and Zelda: Ocarina of time.

In her last few weeks, I took my old nintendo over to the hospital where she was and set the nintendo up on the shitty little tv there for her where she managed to play almost 3/4 of the way through the game while she was sick.

I finished it off for her just last year, I could never bring myself to touch her save because she'd always put so much work into it.

I don't know what I'd do if I ever lost those games or her saves, they mean so much to me.

So, thank you so very very much for supplying my Mum and I countless hours of joy and giving me some of the fondest memories I could possibly have of her :).

Will you guys ever consider making a Banjo-Threeie?
I know there has been a release on the Xbox but it just doesn't feel right.
If that's not on the cards, will there ever be a HD remake of the 2 classics, Banjo-Kazooie and Banjo-Tooie?
 Hey guys! Really stoked for this game, thanks so much for coming back and making my dreams for another banjo game come true. I was curious as to why there are no physical copies for xbox one and ps4, Im speaking on behalf of many game collectors in saying that physical copies would be HUGE! My question is, will there be any chance of having physical copies for this game? Cheers (: [Gavin Price] We would love to be able to do it at some point if we can, but for launch it would mean having to finish the game 2 months earlier in order to get the discs printed. We want more time to make the game! Makes sense! Once again guys thanks, HUGE fan!  So after your current game, would you be interested in ever working with nintendo again on something? Can we expect more collaborations between you two in the future? Your styles definitely complement each other's and it makes for great learning/entertainment.

(On a side note, thank you both for being awesome. Got to meet you both at an Australian meetup and it was such an amazing experience to hang out and chat with you!) This is the third time that I can remember that we collaborated.  

* The first time was for the helicopter series I was doing.  [Derek explained Gyroscopic precession.](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ty9QSiVC2g0)
* The second time was when [we did the Transit of Venus together.](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=riwc3UgPaHw)
* [Then this of course](http://www.smartereveryday.com/toiletswirl) 

I for one would love to work with Derek any time he wished, but it will probably be a while just by nature the other irons we have in the fire. All great videos - for anyone reading, definitely go watch!

Guess we'll have to wait and see how things play out for the future - either way your content is always super awesome.

Good luck and keep up the great work guys :) I'd love to work with Destin again! This was not our first collab by the way. We did one on the transit of Venus years ago. Most of this was shot and edited in one day: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=og1CzUmnSlE [deleted] GASP... I can't breathe.  If you say they're Red Tails I'm going to scream like  a little girl.  YES YES a THOUSAND TIMES YES. &gt; YES YES a THOUSAND TIMES YES.

Sounds like you just got proposed to. Fighter jets are bro equivalent of proposal.  A broposal if you will Whoa. I've watched your vids since, forever, I think I'm witnessing history right now. Lol We're always witnessing history. Quit blowin my mind man I'm trying to go to bed YOU CAN'T GO TO BED YET WE STILL HAVE SCIENCE TO DO! Today on Dumber Every Night, we study the effects of sleep deprivation on redditors.  What was OP's comment here?  They asked me if I wanted to fly in a fighter jet. I said yes. I think it got real too quick for them.  That's a rhetorical question, a "yes" is implied. What kind of human being would say "no" to flying a fighter jet? (well, maybe Grey, but he's a robot). Sending a PM your way good sir! If Destin doesn't take it, I'm in! Yea me too sure.  Seriously I'll have the flight physical you need to make this happen already in hand. Wy have you not responded?  You can't just say "fighter jets" and not reply! I'm dying here! This is the first ama that I have seen where OP is the one left hanging. Judging by her post history she's definitely genuine, but she's also not posted since that comment. She's probably offline. You should shoot her a personal message. 

Edit: gender.  She**  A couple messages down in post history:

&gt;I am a female disabled combat veteran who worked in a male dominated career and was the only woman in my unit... I had high PT scores and was very strong. I still suffered career-ending injuries from overuse and abuse. This led me to research my injuries (pelvic and hip fractures, herniated discs) and found many medical journals full of military research regarding these injuries in women and their very high occurrence. You can't fuck with biology no matter how tough you are. Bone density and geometry can't be fixed with a little "hard work." I cannot even conceive of Destin not wanting to do this. Whether it's feasible, I cannot say... What the hell was the comment? It's deleted.  They asked if he wanted to fly in a fighter jet.  Loved the videos!  I've definitely wondered many times whether it was true.  I was more intrigued by the explanation you guys gave. 

My question is about the editing actually.  How did you do it?!  Did you use some program that edited them simultaneously or did you painstakingly have to make everything line up perfectly? (I'm thinking specifically of things like making the globe shift from one video to the other).

I'm glad you guys liked my dual-screen setup on Twitter! It's the best use for dual screens I've had so far!

Thanks for being awesome and for making learning fun and interesting! The most efficient editing happened when we were sitting across the table from each other.  We would call out individual frames to enter on, stop talking on etc.  Derek uses Final Cut Pro and I use Adobe Premiere, so we had a few issues when we exported our final videos.  FCP kept removing some phantom frames and we had to manually tweak that a bit frame by frame. Gordon (/u/fatjesus) did the heavy lifting on the audio stuff.  His methods were really rad.  He split some songs up and put some instruments on my track and some on Dereks.  Derek split up the first song and we cross faded it between videos depending on who was talking.

Man, it boggles the mind to think about all the technical things we did on this.  It was certainly awesome to work with someone as technically savvy and rigorous as Derek!

 You guys also did a lot of pre-production planning! A vertical spreadsheet-script blocked out the shots/narration which I thought was quite clever. the script was essential. Without it we wouldn't have gotten anywhere. But one hindrance was I did the experiment TWO YEARS AGO so we couldn't redo anything on my side. We only had clips of what I said, not what I wished I had said to fit with Destin. I keep thinking I can't get more impressed by this project but then I am.  Yeah that was pretty interesting actually. "Destin, wish me luck" was said by Derek 2 years ago.  So future Destin is wishing past Derek luck.  I was actually Skyping with Derek when he did one of those first pool drainings.  It was really awesome. Now[ this](http://i.imgur.com/RmZur3X.png) is a chain of replies that I can't help but smile at! 3 of my favorite knowledge-bomb YouTubers. Keep up the great work guys, been learning and will keep learning from all of you! I swear if Michael from Vsauce pops in on this thread, I'll pee myself.  Grey showing up to a Veritasium+SED AMA IS THE THE BEST OR WHAT The only thing that could make this better is if /u/jeffdujon showed up. What's more impressive is that Grey responded at 3:30am London time. It's about 8:30 over here now and iirc from Hello Internet Brady doesn't get up before 9. Followup for /u/fatjesus. Did you add the audio after the final videos were exported?  I'm trying to understand how you were able to crossfade between the two videos unless you had a way of controlling the audio of both simultaneously.  This is so cool! Not this time due to time restrictions. I received stems for one track and split them into rhythmic and non-rhythmic sections (one video would get rhythmic and another would get non-rhythmic, so they'd complement each other) and composed and separated another looping track specifically to be lenient with sync. 

Audio for Smarter Every Day is pretty fast and loose, and a perfect audio edit/mix actually doesn't suit the run &amp; gun aesthetic of the channel so I usually provide Destin with the necessary audio and let him cut it in. Then rag on him when he forgets to fade his regions.  or when I double a track to make it louder.... Louder = BETTER THE HORROR. Gordon tries his best to keep me straight with respect to sound. Thanks for doing this AMA guys. 

Derek, how often do people really get the questions on your videos wrong? Do you have to hunt for footage of wrong answers, or is the sample you show in your videos similar to the real distribution? This is a very important question. For most questions the vast majority of people get it wrong, I'm talking 90-95%, sometimes all of them. My goal when I edit the videos is to show people's perceptions as they are, not to embellish them, but to accurately represent what people think. Yes I generally don't show the one or two right answers I may come across because they don't fit with the flow of the video.

So it is a little troubling how little most people know about science, and that's one of the major things that motivates me to keep making videos. It should also encourage you to talk to everyone you meet about science! I think this is one of the great things Derek does - when these misconceptions are so prevalent, someone who believes the misconceptions will benefit from first seeing the real reasoning behind why it isn't quite true, then getting the correct answer.
I believe there's a video on 2Veritasium about his PhD research and why we learn better that way.

EDIT: It's on the main channel: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eVtCO84MDj8

And a bit more here: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cY_o4A1wzsg I felt so much better that Destin had the same intuition I did about [shooting the block off-center](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vWVZ6APXM4w). full disclosure: I had the same intuition too.

But the person telling me about the experiment told me the outcome too quickly so I didn't have to confront my own errors out loud. Still good to own up to them though. He addressed part of this in his ["Why Do You Make People Look Stupid?" video ](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cY_o4A1wzsg) too. By whom did derek got star struck the most? This is a tough question. I like to think I don't get star struck. I think of all my inspirations, the one I enjoyed meeting most was Bill Nye because he's a very down-to-Earth, unpretentious guy. And he taught me how to tie a bowtie, very patiently. He was an excellent teacher (as you might guess) and made me tie the bowtie again and again until I had it down. Repetition is the most important thing in learning how to tie a bowtie. Have you payed it forward and taught Destin (or anyone else) the skill?  :-)   
 good q - don't think so. Destin taught me to shoot my first firearm, however. When in Alabama... Learning new skills is great!

ps: THANK-YOU for answering several of my comments tonight, it's been a treat to be here when the AMA kicked off.  I have learned lots and been entertained  by your videos.  Keep up the great work! Well hey! Do a "how to tie a bow-tie Bill Nye style" video! :) First, you guys are awesome and so was the video!
Question time, what were your major obstacles to overcome other than the distance between you two?  Making two videos that you could play at the same time with different editing software that did its best to thwart syncing at every turn! *Shakes fist at Final Cut Pro* Schedule.  My schedule is quite difficult with the family and being an Engineer.  Derek went to the ends of the earth to make this happen (in an airplane). Derek, your collaboration with Physics Girl was awesome, and introduced me to one of my new favorite channels. I'd love it if you guys could recommend some more relatively unknown educational (or otherwise) Youtubers. Question Format for the automod: Who are your favorite "unknown" Youtubers? These people are not unknown but Kurz Gesagt is awesome: http://www.youtube.com/kurzgesagt
Anna Rothschild recently launched Gross Science:
https://www.youtube.com/grossscienceshow
And I love Zogg:
https://www.youtube.com/ZoggFromBetelgeuse
For high level physics taught with a smile:
https://www.youtube.com/LookingGlassUniverse
I used her videos when I was first trying to explain Quantum Entanglement Have you guys asked Grey and Brady about being guests on Hello Internet?

Or rather, you guys should start your own podcast so you can do a collab with them.

Wow, the possibilities of collabs are endless. YES - but they have a thing going which is 'two dudes talking' and adding a guest would mess up their flow.

I have joked with MinutePhysics about creating Goodbye Outernet, the companion podcast to Grey and Brady ;) How do you feel about Brady constantly messing up your name and brand? Don't you mean Brodie from Numberflex?

Haha, in all honesty I don't mind. At least they've stopped with the "pretty Derek" business I live in Toronto, and while you were at fan fest, I wanted to find you and ask if you were Dirk from Veristerblium while wearing my CGPGrey polo. Alas, I was only passing by on my way home and you weren't around. I hope you enjoyed Toronto.  I did! Michael (Vsauce) and I were hanging out near YD square and went for dinner at a nice Thai place Honestly the first time I heard "pretty Derek" I laughed and shook my head yes.  Wife was wondering just what I was listening to! I have often laughed out loud listening to HI, usually on planes were I attract funny looks. And where I seem to have no problem with plane crash corner. Asking the important questions. To you and /u/veritasium, how did it come across as a running joke(?) to hide Grey's face in absolutely everything? Like how did the request come from him and what were your initial reactions? (Also, what does he look like?) When we first met him we were filming and he said he'd rather not have his face out there. That was cool with all of us because we're all friends and each person should be able to say how much of themselves they want to share with the world. But now Grey has revealed his face which he did at the Random Acts of Intelligence event in Hunstville and all went well Doooooo ettt. I'll throw money at you if I have to. Derek has threatened to make "Goodbye Outernet" for quite some time now.  A podcast though?  Geeze... I don't think my life could allow participation in another big project. I agree!! Not just as guests but I would love all the random act of intelligence guys podcasts... Time for 'Goodbye outternet!'  I heard that Grey started a new podcast today or something.  [Here it is... Cortex.](http://www.relay.fm/cortex/1) Damn I was so close to finishing my backlog of Hello Internet. Derek: After visiting Chernobyl, what is your view on the risk/benefit ratio of nuclear power? 

Destin: What aspect of space science do you feel has contributed most to society as we know it today? I think in some places nuclear power could provide tremendous benefits, e.g. in the US, Germany, Australia - places with stable governments, infrastructure, planning oversight etc. In Germany, for example, I think it was an odd decision to shut down nuclear plants since they are producing clean power, safely and inexpensively now that all the capital costs have been recouped
In other places I'd be quite concerned with the planned rollouts of lots of new reactors.
I am hopeful that as the cost of solar continues to come down we will see more localized production. That way we can make use of the great fusion reactor in the sky rather than build our own down here. Just wanted to say thanks for the radiation exposure video. I sent that one to a co-worker, telling him he had to watch the "great twist ending." He wandered over to my desk afterwards and told me he was quitting smoking. I've heard a lot of stories like that and I'm really glad it's happening. So sweet of you, Dirk Hey! Only Brady can get away with calling him Dirk. I can't recall Brady's reddit username, but I know it doesn't contain the word "Fucking". I wanted to tag Derek so I could recognise him in this post, so of course I went with 'Dirk from Veristablium." Saw that video back in January, quit smoking within the next 2 weeks. You sir, deserve the gratitude that people are showing you. 133 days tobacco-free today for me, after 20 years as a smoker.

 Thank you! Any chance for a link? I would be interested to see this one! [It's worth watching the whole thing](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TRL7o2kPqw0) Thanks buddy! Satellite communication has changed the world.  That being said, there are things going on the ISS right now that are HUGE for understanding how our bodies work.  They are also pushing the envelope on life support systems.  I'm eating lunch tomorrow with the guy over the urine  drinking water system on the ISS. Can you imagine what systems like that could do for placed like... oh.. I don't know... drought stricken California? What are you going to ask the guy with the urine to drinking water system?! The obvious question.  "Can I drink my urine". I believe Professor Grylls has covered this topic extensively... "You already are, how does it taste?" he responds Bear Grylls would like to have a word with you. haha. You should be asking if you can drink *his* urine. It could be a real bonding experience. Hahaha... man.. that's a plot twist.  I might do that. Dirk from Veritaslium, how would you describe your friendship with Brady Haran? strained LOL.  Now I have to call Beyonce from Numberfest and let him know about this.  Heck, we'll just summon him.  Hey /u/jeffdujon! Usually you have to say it three times for this to work. /u/jeffdujon /u/jeffdujon /u/jeffdujon  Do you mind if people use gifs of your videos on reddit if they provide proper credit? I have used a couple of your gifs before, and always give credit. I just want to know if you mind us doing that.  I don't mind, as long as there's a prominent link back to the video Thank you for your response. :)  I personally don't like it.  My videos more often tend to be more focused on a single shot that took me months to capture.  By taking the GIF and posting it I feel like I'm being robbed of an opportunity to teach someone science.  They scroll through and say "hmm... that looks neat" and never think about it again.  My goal is to engage the viewer mentally.  A good example of this is my AK-47 underwater video.  That video is not about an AK-47 underwater.  It's about cavitation and the Rayleigh Plesset equation used to define bubble dynamics.  By posting the GIF.... the viewer will never care about that.  To me it's just another form of freebooting.  Why not just link to the video instead.  I know the standard answers "too long", "In a place where I can't have sound" "low bandwidth".  I do not think these are valid reasons.  I know I'm kind of on an island alone with this viewpoint.... but I'm also the only one taking my time off from work to make the video in the first place. Thank you for your response. I will not use your videos in the future. As for why not the video, from my experience, reddit tends to react better to shorter "gifs" then having to sit through an 8-10 minute video. Thank you for your input, and all the work you put in your videos! &lt;3  If you have a specific need or idea shoot me a line.  I'm by no means saying I'm an Intellectual Property hard liner.... but I've simply been taken advantage of too many times.  I hope my response didn't come across as rude or anything.  I just answered honestly so you would know how it makes me feel.  I would be interested to know how other creators / artists feel about this. What are your favorite videos from each other channel? 

(Destin's favorite Veritasium video, and Derek's favorite SmarterEveryDay video) Derek made a video a while back called ["Forest of Friends, Baggage Carousel of Jerks"](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-zShHRkwSoI).  I loved that video and think about it every time I'm at the airport. [Destin has a video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-XNDM4eAn1U) I love and I think about it every time I'm on the toilet. It's gotta be Prince Rupert's Drop Hey this is a shot in the dark, but...

I live in Pakistan, where the entire youtube website has been banned for the past three years just because one one stupid video. 

You won't believe the amount of loopholes I had to go through just to see these educational videos.

Would you be willing to write a letter to our government explaining why blocking YouTube and restricting access to all the amazing educational videos, especially from youtube science creators like yourselves, is unproductive?

Not like I'm expecting it to do anything, but still, creating awareness helps. It would be good to make a video about it! You should film people saying why they like YouTube and then post it on... uh, is Facebook blocked there? Loved the video. What part did you find the most fascinating in all of this? The first time I opened the valve and dropped the die in and it started draining counter clockwise I almost lost my mind.  Seriously... it was like one of those moment when you say to yourself.. "We've prepared for this for SO LONG".... but there was still a bit of doubt that it would actually happen.  That was very very exciting. What was the plan if it didn't work? There was no plan B Grey.  It's like being a high flyer without a trapeze net.  We just trusted the physics, and the physics didn't let us down.  Admittedly, Derek took FAR more risks than I did.  He was the man who really made this happen.  He deserves the credit here.  [Which is why everyone reading this should go subscribe to him.](http://bit.ly/Sub2Veritasium)   
&gt;There was no plan B Grey.  

D: Was there a plan B for the flag video? Um... kill the video?

We found this paper from the 1960s that said it would work with about a 6 foot pool so I was pretty confident. Then I did the experiment two years ago and it worked so Destin had it easy ;) This is Grey we're talking to man.  Make it sound scary. Like an Everest trip? Any future collabs with the Slo Mo Guys? We've talked about it! Destin: I've seen that your bicycle video got used in a show called "galileo" (here in Germany). Did they ask you for permission first?  Kristina Stojic from ProSiebenSat.1 TV Deutschland GmbH asked for permission.  I said no because they've stolen my stuff in the past.  I'm quite staggered that they would run it anyways after such clear communication.  It would be great if you could somehow capture this freebooting for me via video screen capture. I've checked their online library but it seemed they cut it out there. When it airs on the TV again, I will capture it for sure :)
Keep your video going, they are great! I would greatly appreciate this.  Freebooting is something I deal with often.  Looks like this was beyond an active decision to freeboot.  Can you tell me when the next airing date is? I just want to add that this is the "science" show, that said magnetism is caused by [giant iron deposits near the northpole](http://www.veoh.com/watch/v205727885KZgZaZH?h1=Galileos+Mystische+Eisenberge) (Its at the one minute mark).  
  
They probably don't care about anthing other than their profit margin. Huge fan! I'll be honest, it's on my bucket list to meet you some day. Question: if you could eat lunch with any three people dead or alive, who would you eat with, what would you eat, and what would you talk about?  Where do you live? Western Washington How you research your topic? Please give detailed step by step approach.  It's really hard to give a step by step approach. Starting on wikipedia is usually a good idea, and then follow the references and external links from there. Sometimes I email or call professors I know. Sometimes I email or call professors I don't know. Academics are remarkably willing to discuss their work with someone who has done their homework, even [Nobel Prize Winners!](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YHBvOOX3RJQ) I once received unsolicited tutoring from some old dude in the hallway of the chemistry building. He just plopped down on the floor next to me and started explaining the reaction mechanisms. It took him 20 minutes to get me from "I just might pass this exam if I'm lucky..." to "this shit is pretty easy." I had no idea who he was (he just introduced himself as "Herbert") until he covered a lecture about a month later. He was a Nobel laureate who really just loved to explain things to students on his lunch breaks. 1. It usually comes to me in a flash.  A question that I don't know the answer to.
2. I ask everyone in the immediate vicinity the question.
3. I Google it.
4. I find the world expert.
5. I pick up the phone and call the world expert.
6. I pick the brain of the world expert in a hand wavy kind of way.
7. I try to collocate myself with the world expert.
8. I film stuff, and ask my serious questions when the camera is running.
9. In short... I learn on camera but often have a good idea of what's going on first.  It's more fun if I have an a ha moment with the viewer instead of by myself off camera.
10. I save all the footage and usually make the video a year later. Do you guys know of any other 'scientific' differences between the northern and southern hemispheres you could test? (If so, any chance of more collaborations?)  Gravity doesn't work down there. Everyone walks around with suction cup shoes. Oooh, good question.  I don't know of any.  I bet Derek does. How about gravity! As a former physics teacher, I've always wanted to show that gravity isn't constant - but I couldn't take my classroom across the world. You wouldn't even have to travel a lot, I think the difference between Colorado and Miami would be measurable.

You could be answering life's most important question: will moving from Miami to Colorado help me lose weight?

And on a sidenote: thanks for doing these videos and bringing sciences to the masses. If I ever return to teaching, you'll be part of the curriculum! You could both do the Foucault pendulum. For Derek, my question isn't really science-y but i was wondering why you have a more-or-less north-american accent even though you're (almost) always in Australia?

Dorian I grew up in Vancouver, Canada, live in Kingston, Canada for 4 years, and then moved to Australia when I was 21 (which is also where I was born but only lived there for 18 months that time). So I guess my accent was pretty established by 21 and hasn't changed much. How's the battle against freebooting going? Anything an average redditor can do to help? I don't think we've had any maaajor freebooting incidents since the slow-motion tattoo thing (though I'm sure smaller ones are happening all the time). I've been doing my part by not participating in giving views, which is more passive than Destin's suggestion but calling out every radio station page can be exhausting. 

I've been using a chrome extension called Facebook Purity (it's AWESOME) which allows me to automatically remove all kinds of things I don't want to see from facebook, so I simply do not see any of the videos that are being freebooted and therefore cannot contribute to views. I have more or less culled my FB to nothing but original content and updates from friends.  That's Gordon by the way.  He does the music for Smarter Every Day. I fought the good fight when that Biking page freebooted your backwards bike vid.  Messaged them, posted to their wall, commented all over the vid - they actually replied to me and apologized once it was down That is so awesome. Thanks. I think it means more when fans do it than the creators, as ironic as it may be.  What does freebooting mean?  http://www.urbandictionary.com/define.php?term=Freebooting

&gt;  Taking online media and re-hosting it on your website. Engaged in piracy or plunder. Mean-spirited swashbuckling of the internet age.
Re-uploading someone else's Youtube video to your Youtube channel.

&gt; Newspapers freebooting by uploading CGP Grey's or Brady Haran's Youtube videos into their video players to make money from ads.

&gt; "Oh those freebooters taking our videos! I'm sick of it. Freebooting, you know, it's a serious issue!" -Brady Haran  so basically just stealing Don't let Grey hear you say that! I'm curious about this one too since I have a feeling this one you guys made might be easy target of free booting. 
For example, someone downloading, putting two vid as one vid and uploading.  Yup, we already had one of those Just flagged two.  @mrpennywhistle:
How do you keep your life so well balanced? You have a family to take care of and you make amazing videos and collaborations like this one and go on tours and do all sorts of amazing stuff. 
@Derk from veritablium (sry could not resist)
How do you keep yourself informed of the various topics and newcomings? What journals do you read, what sites do you visit?

@Both of you: Thanks for the very interesting videos you keep making. You are amazing! My wife.  She is an amazing person who encourages me to do everything I can to change the world.  The only way I can explain our marriage is that the whole is greater than the sum of the parts.
 I bow my head to those who seek to bestow knowledge to the world, and even deeper to those who make it possible. Thank you for your time. I'm kind of a fan of the low information diet, except for what I'm researching at the time. http://vox.com is cool, I love the Economist when I do read it, and I'm a big fan of http://fivethirtyeight.com/
I got the idea for the cell-phone cancer one there Veritasium, how is vessel working out for you so far? Do you plan to continue duel posting?  Yup, I will continue dual posting. This vid was obviously an exception, but the additional financial support and forum for discussions really helps me keep making more and better videos. Wow, the first AMA that I've ever been on time for! 

Destin, when did you start getting so interested in science? I remember from one of your videos that your father works at NASA. What were some ways that he influenced you to go into your field?

Derek, same question, but I don't have any clue of how you got interested in your field. By the way, the jellyfish stinging video was cool. I was always interested in science. Sometimes I think it's funny that science has a name - I think this because of how fundamental it is. It is our way of knowing - and I mean really knowing what is true. So it's funny that one can ask a question like "how did you get interested in knowing things?" Isn't everyone? I am really attached to figuring out the way things really are. If we don't have this drive deep down in each of us, what are we left with?

OK so besides that semi-philosophical rant I had amazing teachers all the way from elementary school through to high school. They fostered my natural curiosity about the world. I've always been a tinker thinker.  It was my Grandfather who worked for NASA.  He never even mentioned the word "Engineer" to me.  It was actually my neighbor who taught me what an Engineer was.  My Dad was a skilled tradesman in the auto industry and he would often take me with him at night when he did stuff like program coordinate measurement machines etc.  We had awesome conversations and used to play a game called "Do you know".  It was basically a curiosity game where we'd ask each other questions.  He was really good about asking interesting questions and he still is.  The Backwards Balloon video was his idea.   Hi Derek. I have to say, I think my favorite of your videos was of the archer who stress-tests his arrows for maximum accuracy. How do you meet people like him? That was a guy in one of my videos (Destin).  He lives in my home town.  Byron Ferguson.  I'm convinced he's a wizard, so i was tickled pink to find that he had a little science lab of sorts setup in his shop.  [Here's the video in question.](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=O7zewtuUM_0) How negligible were the drops of food coloring to the water movement?  I'm going to say incredibly negligible. However, I noticed that during my second trial that small drops were better for seeing the motion so I thought using a spray bottle would be a good idea. So I used a spray bottle in the third trial. This was NOT a good idea. I introduced some counterclockwise vorticity by spraying in this way. The pool eventually spun clockwise anyway but a spray bottle introduced non-negligible vorticity. Spray bottles *are* good though for introducing non-negligible vorticity to misbehaving felines :P 

Thanks for the response and the vid. Super negligible.  Just to be sure that the order in which we inserted them didn't influence the swirl... we alternated the ways that the inserted them.  For example, I dropped them in the clockwise direction, then in the counterclockwise direction.  I was a bit concerned that they might cause some sort of ripples and affect the rotation, similar to how a phased array radar can be steered.  (I hope that makes sense).  The coolest thing about the water drops falling in is that they created little vorices.  I'll see if I can upload a video real quick to show you.  Derek, can you handle questions when I'm away? [Alright here's a video showing you what I'm talking about.](http://youtu.be/KJEkQfyScXs) There were about 5-7 drops put in a line in each Cardinal direction, but as you can see the drops separated when they hit the water.  Alternating how you inserted them sounds smart just to make sure, despite being so negligible in effect... 

*googling "phased array radar" * ...processing... ...processing... Imagine a bunch of fat kids on the side of a pool in a line.  If they all jump in at once one wave moves across the pool like a wall.  If they jump in the pool in order from one side to the other, the wave moves across the pool on a diagonal.  The angle of the wave is determined by the delay in their jumps.  You now understand how a phased array radar steers. I'll never look at synchronized fat kid cannonballing the same again -- thank you. How did you guys edit the videos to sync up perfectly? With GREAT difficulty. Destin edits on Premiere. I edit on FCP X. We did some of the preliminary edits sitting side by side in Destin's house. Saying 'what frame should I put this?'
'1:02:25'
and on we went like that. The worst thing was our editing software didn't play well together. My file's frame numbers didn't export correctly so Destin had to do final tweaks to match my export. It took many, many days, long Skype conversations, and unplanned sleep deprivation experiments. why not, just 1 of you do all the editing? This was a very big project with lots and lots of footage.  We're both capable with video editing software so it made sense to play to our strengths and be as efficient as possible. A simple scale analysis of the Rossby Number for such an experiment indicates that this is not possible. Rossby Number is Ro = U/(L*f), U is horizontal velocity, L is scale length, f is coriolis parameter. http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rossby_number

Low Rossby Numbers (&lt;1) mean that the feature will be impacted by Coriolis (ie, planetary waves, mid-latitude low/high pressure systems) High Rossby Numbers mean that Coriolis is negligible (ie. Tornadoes which can actually rotate in both clockwise and counterclockwise directions). In fact, Hurricanes rotate the way they do because they form as weaker low pressure systems with a lower Rossby Number (so begin to rotate cyclonically in both hemispheres) but as they gain strength, their Rossby Numbers increase enough to where Coriolis is negligible. Yes, this means that if a Hurricane ever crossed the equator, it would continue to spin as it did before regardless of the change.

For this example, let's assume the kiddie pool was 1m. If my calculations are correct (f~= 10^-4 for a latitude of 40N), then U would have to be 10^-4 m/s for a Rossby Number of 1. 

How do you explain this? Or what have I missed? Hey guys, love your video! I know both of you are friends with CGP Grey. So, do you guys call him 'Grey' or by his first name, whatever it may be? I call him Grey. And I am forever grateful that he continues to correct Brodie from Numberflex whenever he butchers my name. Don't you mean Brad from Numberwang? hahaha Do you think this effect applies to very slow moving processes?  For example, the paths of magma intrusions which are emplaced over millions of years? I'm somewhat doubtful because of the high viscosity, pre-existing momentum of the magma, and other forces on it, but I wouldn't categorically rule it out. I have no idea. Derek? I know collaborations are fun, but with the distance between all the YouTubers you're associated with (Dirk, Michael, Henry, Brady, etc.), how often would you like to see collaborative videos like these? (Both dual-styled and just good ol' one videos)

edit: Can't forget about CGPGrey, either!  
  
Also would like to thank you for your awesome work, all of you! I would love to do at least one video with each of those creators every year! I'll be seeing many of them at Vidcon next month so we can plan something even more epic. I love collaboration videos.  It's like you get to be excited about your project with one of your friends!  Adventures are always more fun with others. Great job guys! I love both your channels, and you two are really inspirations to the next generation of scientists.

Do either of you have *even more* hidden talents that we don't know about? I would probably cry if I saw one of you playing the cello or something. lol... I play guitar and sing badly hahaha.

Here's something not many people have heard: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zzxJTma8xJU

Minutephysics is a talented musician! I like woodworking and fabricating things in my garage.  I'm no Ron Swanson, but I enjoy building practical things with my hands. I have read other similar studies with different results.
Is it possible there was just a 50% chance of it going either way and you just got lucky? I would like to see those studies. I take a great interest in education (not unlike yourselves), and I've been using YouTube as a platform to bring my educational videos out to a wider audience. 

Unfortunately, I'm not getting quite as much attention as I'd like on my work. Could you please share your personal experience on getting started and getting known?

Excellent video btw, absolutely blown away by both the experiment and the editing.  I started like most YouTubers do, begging friends and family to watch videos. The first video that did well was the one about the distance between the earth and moon. And I think that did well because of reddit. So I have this community to thank! As Grey says the key is to make videos people want to watch. So if people don't want to watch your last one, maybe you can pick a different topic and try again. That's all I ever did. Ok, first I am huge fan of both of you! I really love your videos and it really makes me love science more and more, so keep up the amazing job!

Now my question, what would you say to convince someone to pursue a career  in the science field?

Thanks for doing this, and again amazing videos! My goal wouldn't be to convince them with words.... buy them a microscope or a programmable lego set.  In a world of talkers be a thinker and a doer.  Show things by DOING. Sweet!  Derek and Destin you two are my favorite YouTube channels, maybe tied with Vsauce.
My question is for Derek.
In you video [Misconceptions About the Universe](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XBr4GkRnY04) You talk about entropy increasing due to the second law of thermodynamics.  This is where all our free will comes from, due to quantum events making the universe nondeterministic.

But, there's an apparent contradiction here if you look at it through the lens of relativity.  Relativity states all of the past and future already "are".  Because there is no "now" because it all depends on your frame of reference.  So the future HAS to be predetermined.  Yet it's obviously not.

How is this possible?

Is it maybe that with every quantum event an entire new universe is born?   Hmmm.... good question. I think there is still a lot we don't understand at the intersection of relativity and quantum, but my thinking is this: relativity says only things in your past lightcone can influence you in the present and you can only influence things in your future lightcone. If these quantum events really are random, then they are not influenced by the past but do influence the future. All laws of physics seem to be time reversible except for things like the second law of thermodynamics and the collapse of the wave function. So perhaps that's telling us something. Derek: What do you think about this three things; religion, philosophy and science? 
It seems to me like this three areas have alway had a history of attempting to explain "life" or "the world we live in" but I am really curious to know what you think about this. I know is kind of a broad question but it is just something that keeps coming to my attention every once in a while. Thank you! I think I'll make a video about this at some point so I hope you don't mind me not answering fully. I feel a strong connection to science as a means of understanding our universe and ourselves. Of course there are some questions science can't answer (yet or maybe ever), however I think it is too easy to fool ourselves when a clear answer does not present itself. So in the absence of evidence I prefer to withhold judgement. It's ok not to know, and in my books far better to admit ignorance than claim certainty about something that might be false. &gt;At the equator it would go straight down.

Shouldn't you actually get clockwise and counterclockwise in equal amounts? Always observing rotation each time you do the experiment, but canceling out on the average. Destin: The backwards bicycle video really intrigued me. I was wondering how quickly you can switch between backwards and normal bicycling, and what you think switching actually entails inside the brain? I haven't ridden a normal bike since Amsterdam. How did the editing work on these? Did you edit these videos together side by side, or did you have to keep sending each other copies to make sure the times were synced? Bit of both - it started in Destin's kitchen and after I left we had long skype sessions and I sent copies of my vid to Destin for him to check. I would like to note that Derek did the Animation at the end, which I found to be fabulous. Can you describe the biggest challenge(s) you faced during the production of this sydeo? ALL OF THE THINGS. Mainly distance, time, planning - that's why I flew to Alabama, because we had talked about doing this video for so long and hardly made progress on it. Face to face is still so important when it comes to getting things done. 100x this.  Had Derek not called me and said "I will be in Alabama in 2 weeks" I wouldn't have built the platform.  We didn't really have the time to do this.  We just didn't sleep.  It was rather insane. Hey guys! I really just wanted to say that I really enjoy your videos, but I guess I'll ask some questions, too...

For both of you:
What is your daily life like? 
What is your favorite video so far?
And what topic do you most look forward to making a video about in the future? There's a specific video I'm looking forward to at NASA that involves the brain.  Daily life is pretty hectic here.  My favorited video... hmm... I like "why you didn't die at birth", "Operation Rocket", Prince Rupert's drop, and the Backwards bike.  Hard to pick a favorite. That was a really neat set of videos, but I'm now really curious about one thing.  You guys mentioned that hurricanes swirl in different directions depending on the hemisphere.  But what do you think would happen if a hurricane started in one hemisphere then traveled to the other hemisphere?

Would the change be negligible?  Would the hurricane dissipate away?  Would it stop swirling and change directions if it lasted around long enough? /u/veritasium have been watching your videos for a long time now. The silient room video was one of the shocking experiments for me and 9/10 people would freak out in that room. Did you really not felt paranoid or spooky inside there ? 

The closest feeling of being inside that room is a LSD trip going bad. As an educator, you somewhat govern the thoughts and ideas of generations to come. What major global problem would you like to see solved within your lifetime? How do you believe you may be able to contribute to the solution? I'd love to see humans explore beyond this planet. One sure way to do that is inspire kids to take up science an engineering - it would be great for humans to have a permanent outpost in space! Why do I not have a daily video update from an astronaut on the moon in 2015? My question: In the Snowden episode, did the folder actually contain a picture of your dick? https://pbs.twimg.com/media/CFndRNdUIAE57wd.jpg He's basically a full blown redditor. I love that guy!  Well, he was a twenty-something(now thirty-one) white programmer. Soo... Yeah, he's actually the target demo for reddit. Snowden mentioned /r/restorethefourth when he was still in Hong Kong.  Snowden was a redditor before he blew the whistle.  

Why are here, Citizen? [John Oliver knows about it, too.](http://i.imgur.com/EfiXpif.png) [Link for the lazy](http://www.np.reddit.com/r/IAmA/comments/36ru89/just_days_left_to_kill_mass_surveillance_under/crgithw?context=3). Asking the important questions, i see. Someone asked Snowden that during his AMA.  His response left it unanswered if I remember correctly. He responded with a snipars/Lenny face  Glomar Response Oliver promised those things if the sponsors pulled support from FIFA. Sepp is likely (an insanely rich, corrupt, fuck could have other reasons) resigning due to how his inner circle were brought in and are likely going to flip and the how the FBI have confirmed him as being investigated. Oliver also tweeted a picture of a bucket of Bud Light Lime bottles saying "Champagne" after Blatter resigned...

Odds are pretty good he is going to make a spectacle out of this on his next show.  He's a comedian, and there is a good chance that sponsors WERE talking to Sepp behind the scenes.  Pressure has been rising on many sponsors for awhile.  John Oliver may have been able to raise some additional awareness that got a few more people to nudge him to step down.


Unless Sepp comes out on some truth serum attached to a lie-detector and tells his story, we may never know his real motivations though.


But Oliver is still a comedian.  I wouldn't be surprised if he brings in a marching band and dancing girls to celebrate this on his show.  It would be a great ratings booster. And it's quite nice of Blatter to do this early in the week, so the writing staff has maximum time to work on it. Hah - You're right! Now, I've never thought of Sepp as a generous and thoughtful man, but I guess he really does have the ability to think of others before himself. What a guy!  YOU ARE POINTING OUT THE CONVENIENCE OF THE TIMING AS IF IT WERE PLANNED IN CONSULTATION WITH MISTER OLIVER AND HIS STAFF Best novelty account there needs to be a way to subscribe to an individual person You can with IFTTT app. Just get it to email you or whatever for new posts by them. I've got it set up for a few good novelty accounts. It is for reasons like these that I am so happy his show is on HBO. He can do basically whatever the fuck he wants. The Bugle should be good this week too. PARKER!!! The only problem is the Blatter story will take away from the hot cricket info. Maybe we'll get a FIFA related pun run from Andy. I still havent worked out if I enjoy these or not. What do the tears in my eyes mean? I get my jollies on that sweet sweet cricket info. I need more pictures of Spider-Man!  Fuck you Chris  How long's it been since the last one 10 years? 5 days. Wait what I've been checking the website for the last like 2 months or so since 290 The website is rarely updated, use the [soundcloud page](https://soundcloud.com/the-bugle). Thanks man I thought it was to do with John filming I think he actually said those exact words about doing whatever the fuck he wants on the bugle And HBO letting him do whatever is good publicity for them as we can see here. Everybody wins. He even gets to say "fuck" a lot which he's very excited about! Damn I even read this in his voice I still can't believe he said McDonalds food tastes like regular food that was cursed by an evil wizard Well that and being able to come right out and say "FUCK YOU!", literally, to people who need to be told that. Lie detector tests aren't a great way to tell if someone is really lying.

http://www.nolo.com/legal-encyclopedia/lie-detector-tests-tell-truth-29637.html

http://www.psmag.com/nature-and-technology/brain-scan-lie-detectors-just-dont-work-59584 I think you missed the part where OP said:

&gt; comes out on some **truth serum** attached to a lie-detector... See that? That's the joke over on the horizon. It was about 3000ft too high for me. I guess that's why we need the truth serum too Here is already a follow up according to his Twitter

~~https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qr6ar3xJL_Q~~

Wow: Dam you clip board.

https://twitter.com/iamjohnoliver/status/605800436440768513/photo/1 that could have gone SO much worse... I agree. Thankfully there wasn't too many replies before I noticed, I done goofed. That was from before Blatter resigned though, wasn't it? Sorry. I was texting the link to a friend. I meant to post the twitter link. What things did he promise? He promised to partake in all of the sponsor's least appealing products, such as every menu on the McDonalds Dollar Menu, one of Adidas' absurdly ugly shoes, or Budweiser's Bud Light Lime.

EDIT: Corrections Adidas ugly shoes... Which he said belong to the Greek God if DJs and he specifically said Bud Light Lime... Which in his words, no amount of lime could hide that it was indeed just drippings from a Long John Silvers dumpster. Just complete gold. I totally lost it during that part. It appears... Brazil actually Paved Paradise... And Put Up a Parking Lot? Greek God of aspiring DJs was the quote I believe I saw an empty bottle of Bud Light Apple the other day. I can't believe that's actually a thing. Oliver may be getting off easy with just drinking the lime one. If he think's Bud Light Lime is their least appealing product... he has clearly never tried Bud Light Chelada. Just thinking about it makes me want to vomit.  Maybe it's an acquired taste. I've always liked them every now and then in the morning or working outside. I'm a fan of Tomato Juice though. Love Bloody Mary's w/ a good bit of Celery Salt.

edit: to be clear, I haven't tried the [these](http://www.eatingrealfood.com/wp-content/uploads/2012/03/clamato.jpg), I just made my own.  Oh, Bloody Mary's are no problem. I mean, I don't love tomato juice, but its drinkable. 

Budlight Chelada is a completely different animal though. IMO the closest flavor I can think of to associate it with is actually vomit. The taste lingered for hours too. If you can acquire a taste for it, you have my utmost respect.  We don't talk about Bud Chelada. Never fucking again. What in the world was Anheuser Busch thinking??? I would love to see John Oliver drink Bud Light Chelada with Clamato juice extra lime.... I believe it was Adidas but that's okay.  https://youtu.be/qr6ar3xJL_Q?t=701 To pimp the shit out of FIFA's sponsors if they use their power to get Sepp Blatter. Wear Adidas shoes, take a bite out of every McDonald's dollar menu item and Drink a bud light lime ( 1 of any budweiser product Bud Lit Lime is just his example). I'm pretty sure he's going to do it...  https://twitter.com/iamjohnoliver/status/605800436440768513 No, Oliver promised those things if the sponsors helped get rid of Blatter. We don't really know for sure if the sponsors made any threats to FIFA or Blatter if he didn't resign. But regardless the end result is the same, so if you ask me I think he has to fulfill those promises. I'm sure he won't let a good skit go to waste He definitely won't. I'd be surprised if he doesn't go through with it. On a scale of 1 to Bud Light Lime, how surprised would you be? Wouldn't it rather be a scale from budd light lime to 10? About 4 Lime~a~ritas Yes we do. The sponsors made announcements. For instance:

[Budweiser](http://www.scoopnest.com/user/darrenrovell/605823271452340224)

[Coca Cola](http://www.coca-colacompany.com/press-center/company-statements/statement-on-fifa-investigation) had  [Two](http://www.coca-colacompany.com/press-center/company-statements/statement-on-fifa-and-human-rights)

More: http://www.espnfc.us/fifa-world-cup/story/2476807/fifa-world-cup-sponsors-visa-adidas-sepp-blatter-resignation

http://www.independent.co.uk/news/world/europe/fifa-key-sponsors-visa-adidas-and-cocacola-pile-on-pressure-in-wake-of-corruption-scandal-10280496.html

The final link talks about McDonalds, Visa, and Adidas. Yeah, the second Coke one is disturbing.  Coke doesn't give a shit about the migrant workers in Qatar.  "Working with the Qatari authorities" is meaningless.  Coke even set up a program trying to get the migrant workers to buy more Coke products in exchange for being able to call their families, you know, since they weren't allowed to leave the country to visit them:

http://visualcultureblog.com/2014/05/coca-cola-and-the-exploitation-of-the-migrant-worker/

Coke will exploit this situation to get whatever money it can from it.  They don't care one bit about the workers. This comment is on every single thread talking about Olivers promise. He's still going to do it. The sponsors came in and told him "You have to be 7 kinds of stupid if you think we're having our name connected to your little mafia operation here. Either you resign and we stay on or we pull our money." They've known it was a mafia organization for more than 20 years. The tone of the conversation wasn't anything like that. It was probably more like "ok they've FINALLY caught on, retire and allow one of our other figure heads to take over". I'm reaching out to his team now! Well this got buried. Eh, it is what it is. Just keeping trying! Hey Victoria, did you have to make the move to San Fransisco? If so, have you seen any variance in how many of the AMAs are done in person vs over the phone? I'm still in NYC. The percentages have remained pretty much the same. Dearest John:

If you could be Papa Smurf for one day, how quickly would Smurfdom descend into a brutal dictatorship and why wouldnt it be all your fault?

PS: Fuck you, Chris.
 Riding in the Badonkadonk Tank all the while. Before finally returning to The United Sporks of Amoogaboink. Could this be a Bugle ref?
 John's cinematic oeuvre is storied and glorious, the smurfs movie is but the shiniest jewel in the crown.

Chris fucking off, is indeed a Bugle ref. Dearest James:

Fuck you too. 
 ITT - People who think that this is an actual AMA and not a request for an AMA. This is how every big request goes. Hey, none of that, we're here to talk about RAMPART.  This is in *every* AMA thread... And it always makes me smile. We're just practicing for the real thing. what is this referencing? I'm /r/OutOfTheLoop  An AMA with Woody Harrelson. Absolute trainwreck. Every time someone asked a question, he would try and pull it back to the film he was promoting (Rampart). At one point, he legit said "I don't want to talk about that, can we just talk about Rampart?"

It was hilarious. /r/rampart people are asking questions that they would ask if this were an ama The easiest way to generate interest in an AMA request is to provide examples of what the questions would be. Has one of these requests ever actually  translated into the AMA occurring shortly afterwards?  John, how long can you keep up the "I'm British" thing? I respect the long con but, this insanity. Well that's his character. Just like colberts was a fox news pundant. So I'd say he keeps it up for his career. Pedant + Pundit = pundant

 thanks, sith. Spelling is not my strong suit. I saw him on stage in Atlanta and he was pulling that same shit. Maybe it's related to a head injury or something.   
   
(in all seriousness, he's *hilarious* live and if you ever get the chance I highly recommend catching his stand-up act) Agreed - saw him in Philadelphia and he was very funny.   It's always funny in Philadelphia. Sure, the betrayal still hurts, but we all know he's got his red coat and musket ready for when Her Majesty Queen Pippa needs him. Oh, Pippa... Not really a betrayal as no one cared about him in the UK D: Nah he was on QI, therefore he's practically royalty Can you elaborate? He grew up in the UK. Is there something I'm missing? Sorry for my ignorance. sarcasm I was equally whooshed, thanks. I knew it was a sham when he started saying "Mom" instead of "Mum" on a recent show. He's from Birmingham, and "mom" is a West Midlands thing. All my family and most other brummies I know all say "mom". 

I'll await my whoosh now. It's well known that Brummies originate from America. It felt so forced when he said that. Sorry, I'm a bit confused. Isn't John Oliver...British? Like born in Birmingham?  Birmingham, Alabama Yes, he is. OP is just having a wee bit of fun. ;)
 Maybe Alabama I mean, what, do you just expect him to suddenly stop being British? Just one day he'll wake up with no accent and everything? You mean he's not really a Brit? OMG "today I learned" 

Holy shit.

EDIT: Nevermind. I'm a sucker. Now that you have a regular current events show, how do you keep doing the Bugle podcast?  Does your experience doing a regular podcast with Andy make the HBO show easier? I've been watching LWT constantly since someone posted his vicious attack on Dr. Oz, and he is a comedic genius. His interview with Edward Snowden was incredible, and almost everything he does is not only laugh out loud funny, but thought provoking and informative.

Please Mr. Oliver, we need this AMA. How's the Bud Light Lime, worth it? Atleast bud light has no taste so you can just chug it...the artificial lime flavour makes that impossible. I disagree.  I prefer Bud Light Lime to Bud Light.  Don't get me wrong, I don't particularly enjoy either, but if I had to drink one. What is the biggest obstacle that you had to overcome with coming to North America from England?  Probably the Atlantic Ocean, heyooooo...

^^^^^sorry... I sea what you did there.. Ha. Sea. I'd like to know this aswell. He's mentioned how even though his path to a green card was easier than most, it was still a hellish ordeal. John, Whenever asked about the journalistic merit of your show you get on the defensive, stating that you are a comedian and the fact that people think you're a journalist is a commentary on the state of journalism. My question is: Why can't you take a goddamn compliment?! He's British AND a comedian.  That's a perfect storm of self-deprecation and self-doubt.  That is of course exactly the same answer Jon Stewart gives It's a compliment, yeah and good one too, but he's not wrong and I doubt that's him being defensive. Who are the people you see laughing in the show? How do they see the show live? "With their eyes" - John Oliver  You have perfectly expressed why a John Oliver AMA would be absolutely great. Look with your special eyes! MY BRAND!  If you are very interested in seeing this happen, consider posting in /r/IAmARequests and offering Reddit Gold for contacting this person and arranging the AMA! Your request will have a better chance at being fulfilled than just being posted here! And if you do post in /r/IAmARequests, make sure to tag your request with [Reward] if you're offering one, or [No Reward] if not.

Users, if you want to help contact potential AMA participants (and earn Reddit Gold) then subscribe to /r/IAmARequests!


*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/IAmA) if you have any questions or concerns.* &gt;  and offering Reddit Gold for contacting this person and arranging the AMA!

Someone can explain me this part? Who should receive gold and why? The person who has "the in" with the celebrity, and contacts them, tells them how it works, etc... would get the gold. Like a finder's fee almost. Like if your brother's step-uncle's neighbor is best buddy's with John Oliver, and you know he's on reddit, you've give him gold if he contacted John and got him to do an AMA. "Dude, if you can convince the most powerful man in the free world to submit himself to accusatory questions, infantile humor, and obscure memes I'll give you $4." Read this in John Oliver's voice. Very satisfying. [AMA Request created!](http://www.reddit.com/r/IAmARequests/comments/38diz3/reward_john_oliver/) There's a year's worth of reddit gold in it for anyone who can make this happen!
 $4 in the form of reddit gold so you can never really spend it. "I'll give $4 to a subsidiary of Conde Nast in your name. What do you say?" Do you really consider Jon Oliver the most powerful man in the free world? Oh, I see. Thank you for the answer. Why don't we have an automated weekly John Oliver AMA request thread already? [AMA Request created!](http://www.reddit.com/r/IAmARequests/comments/38diz3/reward_john_oliver/) There's a year's worth of reddit gold in it for anyone who can make this happen!
 My Q: Apparently Dan Harmon is an absolute joy to work with. Any stories you'd like to share about your own experience with him? I found the one other person who watches community.
Will you come back to community? I'd like to thank him for his part in informing the world about FIFA's corruption in a very entertaining manner. 


Now John when will you be drinking your Bud Lime while scoffing every item on the McDonald's menu? I'm confused as to why people think this should happen. No Sponsors pulled out of FIFA yet he tweeted a pic of a bucket full of bud lime today. So I think he'll do it It's quite possible sponsors put pressure on blatter to resign. People here understand that the only reason celebrities do AMAs on Reddit is to promote their books, movies, music and whatever makes them money right? Shure. Why else would they do it. But I for one like me some honest marketing. Oh and some people like what they try to sell.  &gt;"shure"

......... I like their headphones.  &gt; I'd like to thank him for his part in informing the world about FIFA's corruption in a very entertaining manner.
&gt; 

Maybe America, not the world. The Times and the Private Eye have been reporting on it for nearly a decade in Britain. When you are overly joyous do people call you Jolliver?  and if so, do you refer to vacations as 'Jolliver's Travels'?  Please answer. This has been plaguing me for some time, now. There is a small chance this could always happen. **[The Kingslayer!](http://i.imgur.com/pLVzaVs.jpg)** This needs to happen. Changing the world a week at a time.  I love it.  He has to feel good about actually making a difference. This won't happen unless he's trying to sell something.  That's how reddit works.  THE KINGSLAYER As much research that goes on during an average week for him, I doubt he'd have time for an AMA until he gets a week off at the very least.  They are doing some serious journalism on that show which must be time consuming. Oliver AMA? Yo quiero!

And I really hope he does at least some of the things he suggested, for the laughs He already did one a little while back  That's gold Jerry. GOLD!  Of all the ridiculous news story... both depressing and just absurd, what is the one that just shocked you the most?  I think that would be a tie between civil asset forfeiture and interviewing the most wanted man in America in Russia with the latter being the most absurd.  Any chance the show will cover the Trans Pacific Partnership (TPP) and reveal its absurdity to the masses?  With everyone continuing to talk about the show and its impact, why isn't it called "next week tonight?" Mr. Oliver - the Department of Veterans Affairs and the DoD Healthcare IT systems are being sabotaged by big businesses like HP.  Meanwhile, there is an entire community of people trying to help that is being ignored.  Dr. Paul Tibbits and his underlings at the VA OIT office are essentially facilitating white collar criminal activity in the form of intentional misuse of tax payer dollars, leaving US veterans shit out of luck when it comes to developing the modernized health system they deserve.  This could be a good story for you to cover.  Apparently, congress is up in arms about this issue as well.
 all the girls I know secretly have a crush on your adorable dorky british mannerisms and truthful, progressive views. When is your GQ photo shoot? How is Bud Light Lime? Are you drinking one right now? Does Bud Lime really taste like dumpster pee?  

Mr. Oliver if everyone on TV was like you it would cease to be the fifth circle of hell. [Circle-jerk Request] John Oliver


FTFY Let me just say that I would take you to a classy restaurant, get you tipsy on aged bourbon and bang you with consent, all before taking you out for breakfast in the morning and seeing you to a nice cab. John Oliver is a gem and therefore not one that you nail classlessly.  's writers

(this is what you're looking for) Did you drink your bud light lime yet? #2. The Daily Show. Derp.  I just finished watching all the seasons of Community this week. It was a great show.  Are you sad that it's over? It hasn't been cancelled (again) by Yahoo, and the response has been great for season 6, so we could get another, or that movie! That show is the best show on tv Let's just go with HBO April and May are the best Sunday nights on TV. Dear Jon:

Will you answer all of my questions because I spelled your name correctly?

PS. Fuck you, Tom. You can't get out of that just by moving to Australia.

PPS. h Since when has his name lacked an H? I mean I'd like to think at least one of HBO or his media guy would get it [right](http://imgur.com/nUc3OfY.jpg) Last Week Tonigt Wit Jon Oliver We're still waiting for this **Bud Light Lime**... If we all tweet at him and Reddit, just maybe, magic will happen and that beautiful (fake) British man will come answer our questions. He's not British? He's an expat, which I imagine would lead most British people to jokingly accuse him of not being British. John, what's a topic that you believe is too controversial for Last Week Tonight? I've never really watched him but after the FIFA rant I might get HBO. HBO also post the videos on youtube. Just a couple answers that seem obvious..

.2. He was probably approached by HBO, the show being based on a Daily Show model- but also fortunate enough to be uncensored. I don't know, you could google it, but the premise of the show is almost certainly based on the Daily Show- where he got famous.

.5. If he preferred the UK he would probably live there. when will you stop stretching jokes past the point of funny? Hi John,
Would you have considered to come back to the daily show to replace Stewart if they had asked? Define John Stewart in a few words. He's not here. This isn't the AMA. 2blue 4you
 Dam I was just about to post this lol, hope he shows What did John Oliver promise? Are there going to be more in person interviews on Last Week Tonight such as your Edward Snowden interview? As much as I enjoy hearing you speak behind your desk, I like seeing hosts outside of their element/comfort zone. Mr. Oliver, did the Bud Light Lime transform into champagne as it entered your lips? Can we also award you with a Sainthood, dubbing you Saint Oliver? He's mentioned how Reddit AMA's are basically the ultimate form of G and Q on a US interview so at least he knows about the site. Could happen. Why are the YouTube vids not available in Australia? I think a good chance of contacting him is to write to the bugle.

If you insult Chris or despair on Andy's pun runs they'll probably read the letter on the podcast.  My question: What's your feeling about the fact that you will never be able to beat Gordon on the Top Gear track? John Oliver makes me proud to be American.  I was a production artist for Solo cup from 2005-2011. Like someone mentioned, it used to be Sweetheart cup before Solo purchased it. Solo has since been bought by Dart container, yet there is still some Solo branded stuff. In my time there I never heard anything about a Gina, although I was working in Owings Mills, MD. I believe the part about there being a contest to pick the design, because that was exactly how they handled coming up with the replacement for the Jazz design. The new design was called "Symphony", and ended up being a blend of mine and another artist's design. You can see my entry here: http://johnmcgowan.slidingboxes.com/#!/project/799 
To the person requesting a vector of the file- There never was one. When we printed the Jazz cups there was a bitmap of the design that we always dropped into our templates.

EDIT: Just got in touch with a former co-worker who was around a lot longer than me. Knows Gina. Working on getting in touch with her to send her this way. I'm oddly comforted by the fact that some of the beverages I've imbibed may have been from cups designed in part by a person called /u/Tween_LaQueefa  Glad to be of service! I hope the solo brand doesn't go away. "Dart cup" sounds like a Canadian term for "ash tray". It wouldn't be smart, the brand has value.

I mean there's a song called "Red Solo cup" but i can't offhand think of another disposable cup manufacturer that has their name in a popular song.

Edit: cleared up meaning Chevy has a commercial that has about 15 different popular songs with the word Chevy in them. Rappers and country singers love those big American built vehicles.  Red solo cups are so iconically american that some tourists buy them as souvenirs.

That said, I'm really surprised they haven't faced the "McDonalds coffee spoon problem" because their brand is pretty inextricably linked to college binge drinking and underage alcohol consumption. Wat?  Mickey D's coffee spoons were awesome for cocaine and got a reputation for measuring the perfect "bump" Hi there...I am the original designer of this design which was done for Imperial Bondware, Gina just tweaked it for sweetheart.  

http://www.reddit.com/r/IAmA/comments/394teo/ama_request_the_graphic_designer_who_made_the/cs19yki

http://www.reddit.com/r/IAmA/comments/394teo/ama_request_the_graphic_designer_who_made_the/cs19yki

 So, I was a part of a community of artists on the internet that helped appropriate the Solo Jazz design back in 2010 or 2011. We created a series of templates of the design, including vectors, and [put it](http://i.imgur.com/2gCh6ZK.jpg) [on](http://i.imgur.com/OwGttDY.gif) [everything](http://i.imgur.com/noAZbaO.png) [we](http://i.imgur.com/Tgg9FYw.jpg) [possibly](http://i.imgur.com/IW2eqlq.gif) [could](http://i.imgur.com/OJrYBDy.png). We made a [facebook page](https://www.facebook.com/solojazzcup?fref=ts), we made a [tumblr](http://solojazz.tumblr.com/), sold shirts, and eventually, one of us decided to contact Solo Corp. about the design.

[The Solo Jazz design was created by a designer in the Springfield, MO Art Department at Sweetheart. Her name is Gina](http://i.imgur.com/h9WBVvR.jpg). So, I hope you guys can find Gina, because I really like her design, but I also doubt that she understands the emotional impact the cup has on children born in the 80s and raised in the 90s.

LATER EDIT: Googling has revealed [another Solo Jazz related e-mail thread which confirms Gina as the designer](http://www.reddit.com/r/iamverysmart/comments/25gm07/super_verbose_guy_is_way_too_interested_in_solo/). The Reddit thread is a year old, dunno the age of the e-mail thread.

**LATEST EDIT**: So, this has become far more interesting than I could have hoped for. I recognize that this thread is over, but perhaps someone searching reddit next time this topic comes up will see this and find it as interesting as I do.

Late last night I got several replies / messages from a designer named Stephanie, who uses Reddit as /u/samm0404. She appears to be the designer of the original 'Jazz Design'. Stephanie worked for a company called Imperial Bondware, which may or may not be known as [Imperial Paper](https://www.internationalpaper.com/US/EN/index.html) these days (google was unclear). There is an Imperial Bondware in WI, but Stephanie claims she worked for them in Ohio... who knows, not that important.

Stephanie designed the Jazz design in 1988, which falls in line with the response Solo Cup gave someone else in 2009 regarding the Jazz design. After putting the cups into production, Imperial ["thought it was too forward thinking"](http://www.reddit.com/r/IAmA/comments/394teo/ama_request_the_graphic_designer_who_made_the/cs19yki), and discontinued production. What happened next is unclear... somehow the design fell into the hands of Solo Cup in 1991, who gave it to Gina to tweak before putting into production in 1992, and the rest is history.

I'm still trying to find Gina, because it's important to hear both sides of a story before declaring one canonical over the other. I wonder if Solo bought the design from Imperial (without consulting either artist, of course). Solo claims that the Jazz design came from "an internal design contest" so maybe Gina 'took insperation' from Stephanie's design and submitted it as her own... 

Either way, it would make for one hell of a 99% invisible story... get at me NPR!

**REAL LAST EDIT**
Obligatory [WE DID IT REDDIT](http://www.news-leader.com/longform/news/local/ozarks/2015/06/17/internet-looking-designed-cup-springfield/28881969/) followed up by a shout out to /u/tgounley for doing real reporting! Also, an apology to /u/tgounley for not responding to his message for a comment. "Pfft. This is so fucking specific. There's no way OP will ever track that person down."

*looks at comments*

"Son of a..." Look at comments

*spittake*

Look at cup you're drinking from

*spittake* Look in your vegetable bin

*shiitake*

Look at the fork you're eating from

*shiitake* Looks at OP's mom 

*bukkake* 

Looks at cup she's slurping from 

*bukkake* Look at this photograph

*Nickelbakke*

Everytime I do it makes me laugh

*Nickelbakke* Look at this graph. 

 http://youtu.be/sIlNIVXpIns I can't stop laughing at this and don't understand why. Best thing i've seen today , im in tears. ...every time it makes me laugh You made my day [Look at this Instagram](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Nn-dD-QKYN4) My love for you is like a truck

*berzerkke*

Would you like to making fuck

*berzerkke* My love for you is ticking clock

*berzerkke*

Would you like some suck my cock 

*BERZERKKE* Look at spelling

*misttake* Look at post above me

*shitpost*

Look at post I'm making

*shitpost* Looks at the Seadoo he is riding

http://autoclassifiedshopper.com/images/review/1996-SeaDoo-Waverunner-GSX-r346-1.jpg Looks at anything [Charlotte Hornets](https://encrypted-tbn0.gstatic.com/images?q=tbn:ANd9GcSqH7yxEdcgeN2TuxjpUNgTTdm2j1yBd5LukDUaUVBAZ3uElbFF) related from 1989 ...

 bukkake, shiitake, spittake

There. Now you'll never read those words correctly again. That's called a double spittake Did you ever hear about that time someone tracked down the exact fragrance of the Pirates of the Caribbean ride? [The internet is a crazy place.](https://www.reddit.com/comments/xnx3g/does_anyone_sell_or_know_how_to_create_the_smell/) Whoa. I had completely missed that. That's insane! Thanks for the link! I bought that after reading that thread and, while it was nice, it smelled nothing like the ride.  Dude I was convinced reddit could find anyone or anything after the picture of the airport couple talking that we made into a romantic comedy poster. Good times. Link for all those asking: https://www.reddit.com/r/pics/comments/1guqxq/at_the_airport_and_these_two_have_been_talking/ I was so sad to find out that guy had a girlfriend. I wanted the hype to be true!!! The internet works in mysterious ways ^ways ^^ways ^^^ways ^^^^ways ^^^^^ways She created the design in 1988. That's all I'm allowed to say. Do you have inside information that you're not telling us? TELL US Ready the pitchforks! Summoning /u/pitchforkemporium Hi I'm all revved up and ready to go Have you thought about expanding into torches? I fancy the pitchfork for stabbin' but sometimes I wanna burn them too. We always carry torches just no one buys them or asks for them

---c~ ^^Yay! Hey man, that's a problem with your marketing.  I see "Pitchfork Emporium" and I assume you're a specialist retailer. If you've diversified your wares, you need to push that, brah! Well shit **ANGRY AT OP?** WANT TO JOIN THE MOB? *I'VE GOT YOU COVERED!*

#**COME ON DOWN TO /r/pitchforkemporium**


**I GOT 'EM ALL!**

Traditional|Left Handed|Fancy
:-:|:-:|:-:
---E|---|---{
**I EVEN HAVE DISCOUNTED CLEARANCE FORKS!**

33% off!|66% off!|Manufacturer's Defect!
:-:|:-:|:-:
---F|---L|---e

**NEW IN STOCK. DIRECTLY FROM LICHTENSTEIN.** ***EUROPEAN MODELS!***

The Euro|The Pound|The Lira
:-:|:-:|:-:
---|---|---

#**HAPPY LYNCHING!**

^(* *some assembly required*) Is someone threatening your safety? Is everything okay at home?  I knew it! You work for the NSA and those lines are a voice pattern representation of the person's name who really killed Kennedy! The Solo Cup Company Consumer Response Intern begs to differ, but I wouldn't get my facts straight if I wasn't getting paid. Maybe Gina had this design kickin around in her portfolio and decided to submit it on a whim.  I live in springfield, like less than a mile from the arts center.  I'll try to track down gina, no, I WILL track her down.  Laws be damned Deliver!... Gina to us... Nobody minds stalking if it's for a good cause!  Just show up at her house with an oversized check and tell her she has to do something called and AMA for it. "good morning m'lady, I'm from the internet!"  I hope you do track her down! Seems like other Springfield residents are saying that the place shut down a few years ago, so maybe Gina moved on :( RemindMe! 2 weeks I will remind you. 23rd June 2015. You're just trying to get some shoes, aren't you? I want to believe you but you seem to be full of shit  No, I think he's totally legit. Small correction, MI is Michigan, MO is Missouri do'h It's *d'oh* Man, I'm really fuckin' up today. You goddamn piece of shit you awesome son of a bitch It's *f'uckin* M'oh --
*tips cup*

EDIT: Shit - just spilled water all over my keyboard. Actually it's *frustrated grunt* The 90siest.  See I thought it was Montana. (not american)  Oh, that's my city.

Hmmm, the best option from here would be to get in touch with [News-Leader](http://www.news-leader.com/). I'm sure they could make a story out of this.

EDIT: I think letting the journalists lead the way on this one is best. They have ethics and stuff. It's not unlikely this person wants to remain private. Definitely. I'm sure the community would love to be reminded of the impact they have had on 90's culture. Get out of here with that Gannett bullshit. I wouldn't be so sure about your supposition (of her unawareness); the cultural presence of the Dixie cup, etc. is a running thing that crosses decades with different designs. They're like signposts of a time period. Certainly, but whenever I listen to interviews with rock-star graphic designers like Milton Glaser, I'm always amazed at how little they care about the cultural impact of their work.

The reason millennials like this design is because it is inherently linked to our childhood - it brings back fond memories of birthday cakes and backyards and yadda yadda yadda. We've given this cup supplementary meaning that didn't exist when the designer submitted the design to the contest several decades ago. Oh, aye. I just suspect that the designer has a similarly significant paper cup design in her own memory and can relate to the idea. Which is why we should have this AMA. I had no idea these cups are no longer made. I assumed they had a stockpile to last them the next few centuries based on how identifiable they are.  Another enquiry about Solo Jazz suggests that Solo keeps thinking about nixing the design, but receives so much fan mail about it that they keep it in production. It reminds me of a doctor's office. I'm pretty sure I peed into one of these things at some point. can we talk about [this painting](http://www.booooooom.com/wp-content/uploads/2014/08/brandonceli06.jpg) from the tumblr? so mind opening  Obviously he was working as a ranch hand.  That was hilarious I want one of those shirts. Are they still for sale? They were made limited batch because they were all over prints, which are (were?) expensive, but I'm pretty sure Fuck Jerry sells a less all-over version of that shirt.

edit: I'm pretty sure that if enough people messaged the FB page that he would order more. It just sucks to pay a ton of money to get shirts made and then have them sit around for years on end when they don't all sell. artscow.com does all-over dyesub printed shirts.  They're at the north end of reasonable most of the time (gotta add air freight from Hong Kong), but they have crazypants-cheap specials fairly frequently (right now I have an affiliate code for adult tanktops $0.99 shipped). Are you out of D'Angelos too? Asking for a friend. Yeah, that makes sense. I was just wondering if there are any left from the order. [Rageon.com sells them.](http://www.rageon.com/search?q=paper+cup) Wow that place is overpriced. 

 yeah, it is. The price for the all-over shirt was around $40, but no one made any profit off it, they were all sold at cost. This is a worse design for way more money. For all-over prints, these are actually decent prices. I've bought a [few](http://cdn.shopify.com/s/files/1/0228/8535/products/Tina_Belcher.jpg) [shirts](http://cdn.shopify.com/s/files/1/0228/8535/products/AOPTS0006U_Adventure_Fun_Mockup.jpg) from there, and they're really comfy shirts that haven't faded at all. Plus, they always have deals going on. I'm sure if you hover on their site for a minute there will be some sort of coupon popup.  &gt;I really like her design

You wouldn't say. 

 I mean, sure, maybe we went a bit [overboard](http://i.imgur.com/HqVKRzY.png)? I live near there!  Didn't they close down a few years ago? Dude, I live in Springfield and drive by the now defunct Solo factory everyday. I'm so sad they tore down the giant cup. Sooooo... are those vectors available anywhere? somewhere. I'll try to dig them up - I only made a transparent png for myself. Please slow the couch down. You made me feel sick.  
&gt;[the emotional impact the cup has on children born in the 80s and raised in the 90s.


Thank you for this distinction. Fuck the "90s kids only" shit from kids born in 1997. 
 I was born in 96 and I still have pretty vivid memories of the cup. This cup design still exists today. You could show this design to a 6 year old and they'd probably recognize it. Same, I was born in 97 and saw those cups all the time at the mall as a kid I hope this doesn't count as doxxing, but I did find a graphic designer named Gina in Springfield MO who graduated college in 1990.

https://www.linkedin.com/pub/gina-gannaway/1a/152/b37 Getting home after a tiring day, Gina is rather surprised when she checks her email to find thousands of people have visited her linkedin page in the last 24 hours.

Gina chalks it up to Linkedin marketing trying to sell their packages to her and forgets about it. A few months later, Gina is surprised yet again, when she googles her name and finds that someone on reddit doxxed her while attempting to doxx someone else. All of this is very confusing to Gina. Not her. Different last name. Damn, seeing that condom, I realized that after so many years of McDonald's fucking me, I can finally turn the tables.  [deleted] I've been trying to find a vector of this, but no avail. Can somebody point me to one? Turns out the shirts were made with a raster image, but I'm pretty sure someone has a vector. I'll let you know if I find it! &gt; Turns out the shirts were made with a raster image

*clutches pearls* I was born in the 90s and raised in the 00s. This was still a thing in the early naughts. it's still a thing now (you can order the cups from most office / restaurant supply stores), but I think it had the most cultural impact in the mid 90s. The facebook page and the tumblr have a bunch of screenshots from Seinfeld, Kids, [Nirvana Unplugged](http://kurtcobainsolojazz.ytmnd.com/), The Sopranos, etc which prominently feature solojazz cups. &gt; Nirvana

This is mind-blowing. 

Strangely, the picture is of Kurt Cobain with a Jazz Solo, while the audio is of a jazz solo with a Kurt Cobain. 

 TIL my city is responsible for the free water at McDonald's cups. Interesting. I need one of those shirts to wear under my starter jacket. WOOO SPRINGFIELD, MISSOURI REPRESENT I need those socks.  maybe she's already dead? She died from over exposure to cyan toner. CMYKILLYOU My aunt worked in the management of Solo in Springfield from the mid 80's until it closed in the early 00's(at least that's when she was laid off). I could ask her, there is a decent chance she would know.  Pretty sure that graphic was on the side of my parents Toyota Tarago in the 90s too... And possibly a picnic set. Bayliner upholstery too. Almost any vinyl seat covering on boats from about 89-94 I'd guess. [Definitely saw them on Geo Trackers.](http://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/9/90/Geo_Tracker_LSi_convertible.jpg/1280px-Geo_Tracker_LSi_convertible.jpg) http://imgur.com/fVSZeoQ

Spotted this one in Jackson Hole, Wyoming just last year I always called this the "Jazzy Crayonz" pattern, rather than the more classic Jazzy 90's Solo Cup style.  Both are acceptable and appropriate. What compelled you to take a picture of it? You don't take pictures of all the cars you see being driven?

What do you do with all your time if you're not cataloging and referencing your car pics? Myself and a few friends of mine who got me into cars would.

A.) It's a hilarious Geo Tracker. Already just doesn't even seem like anything but an RC toy truck.

B.) Look at that graphic. It's perfect for that car. This ups the funny by a lot. I love it. 

I always said if I get rich I'll buy a ton of trash unique cars like Geo Trackers and build them up into just awesome machines. In the late 90's I was a silkscreen printer at Sharpline Converting, the company that makes most of these decals (also for RVs, boats, airplanes,  etc). I used to be so sick of these swoops and "paint strokes", now they're nostalgic lol. I sometimes drive by an older car or camper and say "hey, I  probably made that sticker!" 

I don't know if we ever made stuff for Geo, but hey, maybe I made that sticker :)
 My stomach turns with the memory of their ubiquitous mediocrity. &lt;read in Werner Herzog accent So sad to see the Geo's shittiness, like that of the Yugo and Gremlin before it, lost to time.  At least we'll always remember it for [this classic *Simpsons* punchline.](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Ktzeu14YmA4)  


 I've seen them on a few cars in Australia, well not anymore at least. [deleted] What about the Nisha call? 

UPDATE: Thanks for the gold you guys! First time for everything, huh? WHO IS THIS INFAMOUS GINA It's pronounced "Gina".  Although I can do nothing to help your cause, this is one of the more interesting AMA ideas I've seen. Is it regional? I have no idea what it is. For a long time (and possibly still today?), paper cups found in many places carried this pattern going around the side. Obviously, it's just a design a certain paper products manufacturer added to make its cups seem less plain. There were plenty of other patterns out there, but I recognized this one immediately. It was definitely very popular by me (New York area). It was found in cheap restaurants, office break rooms, homes, etc.

The design, although probably just a minor thought during product development ("this looks okay, let's go with that") was printed onto, undoubtedly, millions of cups found in tens or hundreds of thousands of places.

So it's interesting that some designer made this pattern, probably without too much effort or consideration, that possibly found itself in front of more eyes than the Mona Lisa.

Edit: apparently progress was made elsewhere in this thread, so just read up on it there! I still see cups with this design today. Yep, it's definitely still in use. I work an after school care job and the cups we give kids with their snack have this design on them. Can confirm, worked at a restaurant last year that still used these for to-go cups (more like server/cook cups). It was an Aramark restaurant, I wonder if they use them at other locations. Oh, thank you for explaining! The design itself is just the perfect 90's aesthetic...so in a lot of ways there's a deeper cultural tie to the design because when you look at it, you remember all the turquoise and purple and crappy graphics of the 90's.  Seems more 80s to me. Can't really define a decade's style as 1990-1999 for example. Really it's more of a 1987-8 a 1996-7 sort of a distribution. The style usually gets attached to the later time period rather than the earlier. Maybe the best way to say it is that this is a perfect reflexion of late 80's/early 90's style.  Let's resolve to put in a word with anyone we see wearing turquoise/pink wind suits with white sneakers. They're a tight-knit community; we'll find our man. So...1990s-current era Jewish mothers from New Jersey? Grandmothers now.

source: From NJ [Imgur](http://i.imgur.com/jcqV9zS.jpg) Is crayon your favourite medium? It's pronounced crayon Crayn Just a thought: while that particular variation and color pairing seems to have become retroactively famous, it wasn't exactly original. That general motif of a 'casual' marking (paint splash, brush marks, scribbled line) in contrasting pastel colors started showing up in the late 80s. By the time it got used on disposable cups it was already a 'safe' and rather cliche design. Hence why it got widely used on disposable cups. Disposable cups weren't setting fashion trends, but rather the opposite. The fashion trend was more or less dead by the time it made its way to disposable cups.  &gt; The fashion trend was more or less dead by the time it made its way to disposable cups.

Why do you have to ruin my life like that As a graphic designer, I can say with complete confidence it's because of our long and deep hatred of humanity that we must destroy lives with reckless abandon to fuel our blood god Ill'Uss-Traitor. I graduated high school in 1992. No one in my school wore clothing with that look. We would refer to that type of design as "80s". You could potentially find people wearing stuff like this in the 80s. Anyone with the exception of late middle age or senior citizens would stay way from this design in the 1990s for apparel.

When I saw this design on cup in the 90s I always assumed that a company went graphic design shopping and bought something off the deep discount rack that had been sitting there since 1987.
 Agreed - I'm a few years younger than you but have the same impression. It may have looked fresh in the 80's, but it quickly became dated, and was not really what I'd call a 90's design. More like something that continued to be used in the 90's when having a fresh or 'good' design was a low priority. This makes it even more interesting to me. This design wasn't novel. It wasn't unique. It was safe. Yet this specific design became so iconic that I knew exactly what OP was talking about when he said "jazzy 90s design on disposable cups". This designer was just doing something routine and safe and ended up making something some much more. Agreed. OP seems to assume that these cups were original but I've seen similar designs. My bedroom wallpaper used something similar and it was a pretty common design. Zig zags were common in the 80's and these sort of casual zig zags were common in the 90's I remember seeing the style popular on offshore power boats in the mid to late 80's. Cigarette &amp; Fountain and maybe Formula boats featured elements of this design style. [Perhaps this will help..? Found on a reddit post from last year.]
(http://i.imgur.com/Sz6X6iQ.jpg) This is fucking hilarious, even without the beautifully befitting "jazzy 90s". This car lives in my neighborhood 

http://imgur.com/EnJTzCB it's like a bad tattoo for your car That was supposed to be "jazz?"  I always thought about surfing or an ocean, like Ocean Pacific or something. I never thought I could get this nostalgic for a paper cup That had Windows 95 written all over it TIL people are emotionally attached to a design on a paper cup. Did not know that. is [this](http://thatshirtwascash.com/products/jazzy-90s-shirt) something reddit will be buying now? This always reminds me of Saved by the Bell for some reason. Or [Wild! Berry Pop Tarts](http://i.imgur.com/VVSZvsx.jpg) &gt; for some reason

...[seriously?](http://www.dailymotion.com/video/x27syh1_saved-by-the-bell-opening-credits_shortfilms) I just realized that theme song reminds me of Saved By The Bell.  Reddit gold to the person who makes this AMA happen.

EDIT: This offer is serious btw.  Are you sure you wanna risk such a staggering wager? I'll tack on  fifty dogecoin! Oh hot fucking dog, there's gold in them thar hills! Ooooooo.  *serious* Your gold won't work. Try Reddit Turquoise + Mauve. send an 'email' form at the dixie.com site and ask them I work for Dixie and the graphics department is right next to mine, I'll see if they're interested in something like an AMA. But this design was a Solo design I believe.  Any progress, /u/TrexPussy ? I think I know now why I have a preference for palettes with teal and purple. I'm in my 40s, and I can tell you this design was around in the mid-'80s when I was in high school. Just doing my bit to set the record straight.     You are being downvoted, but this "casual splash of paint" design was around well before it started showing up on cups. Similar designs were on cars, logos etc that definitely pre-dated the Solo cup design. Source: am 36, was around in late 80s and aware enough that I recall seeing it. &gt; cars

Pics or it didn't happen.

Edit: Well, someone already commented [this](https://i.imgur.com/EnJTzCB.jpg) further down in the thread. I worked at a hospital in 1987 or so that used this as part of a logo. They found Gina the designer! 

http://www.news-leader.com/story/news/local/ozarks/2015/06/17/internet-looking-designed-cup-springfield/28881969/ Nice try /u/fuckjerry Was about to comment on how surprising the lack of Fuckjerry references there were I have wanted to get this as a tattoo around my calf for the past year. What do you think? http://www.ksdk.com/longform/news/local/ozarks/2015/06/17/internet-looking-designed-cup-springfield/28881969/

Calling /u/mcglaven! So, to answer the above questions above as the designer of this design....

1. I believe I was paid $7.25 an hour when I designed this....no royalties.
2. No I did not, it's very strange seeing it everywhere.
3. I spent maybe an hour or so coming up with the first mock up. It was among many other ideas I was putting forth at the time.
4.  It is strange.  I always remark that my artwork has filled many a landfill.
5.  It was my first job as a graphic designer.  Since then I haven't kept up with it as my career, I've worked mostly as a caricature/portrait artist since....as well as a freelance artist. If you are very interested in seeing this happen, consider posting in /r/IAmARequests and offering Reddit Gold for contacting this person and arranging the AMA! Your request will have a better chance at being fulfilled than just being posted here! And if you do post in /r/IAmARequests, make sure to tag your request with [Reward] if you're offering one, or [No Reward] if not.

Users, if you want to help contact potential AMA participants (and earn Reddit Gold) then subscribe to /r/IAmARequests!


*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/IAmA) if you have any questions or concerns.* Hello all, my name is Stephanie and I designed the original "Jazz" design for Imperial Bondware in Kenton Ohio in the late '80's, Gina did not.  I commented on this a year ago (I'll post the link)....

https://www.reddit.com/user/Samm0404/

The cup was in production prior to 1991, but the company stopped selling it (because the salesmen thought it was too forward thinking...wimps), but someone from Sweetheart picked it up, liked it, set it on Gina's desk and asked to tweak it just a little to avoid copyright issues.

That design came out of my head.  Same colors, same everything, except Gina made the purple line a little smaller.  This was a common practice between the cup companies, and Gina was just doing what she was told.  But she's not being truthful if she's claiming that she designed it. Got proof? lol cause you're just making a claim and hoping people will take it at face value.  Here's the link specifically to the post from a year ago. https://www.reddit.com/r/pics/comments/1vxq0t/the_90s/cexbplh Hi Stephanie! 

This is awesome!!! Thank you so much for posting here! So many questions!

 As a designer that's worked with a marketing company I cannot tell you how many times a sales guy will waltz in with someone else's developed product and say "I want this".  My reply is "copyright" and *"I can do better"*.

(In my experience, is that sales types lack all imagination and are *risk adverse*)

But they're insistent with "this works" and we need to *just copy them*. 
That's when the execs / marketing head usually gets involved. 

The compromise is to tweak the source design enough to make it legal to cover the companies ass.

[edited to make things um clear-ish] He/She is probably only 32.  Probably dead, I always thought it was Corel royalty free Clipart. This reminds me of that blue and white cup from New York.
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Anthora [obligatory](http://thatshirtwascash.com/collections/frontpage/products/jazzy-90s-shirt) One time we convinced our five year old cousin that he designed and painted all those paper cups. It was funny that he started to believe it, but then he cried when we threw the cups away and it stopped being funny. 

 Is he willing to do an AMA? how did i know exactly what design this was?  MY AESTHETICS When I think of paper cups, I don't think of this design, I think of [this design](http://imgur.com/xv324p9). Anyone else recognize this? &gt;What does it feel like to have something you designed become a part of 90s culture that will be remembered for generations?

But only 90s kids will remember. Aw baby, that graphic is pure 80's.  
That graphic is so 80's, I had a windsurfer with that on the board and sail.  Wtf is this, is it really known in America ? I'm from Europe and it's the first time I've seen this design. Yep. It was (or still is?) The default paper cup design in the 80's and 90's. I still see them around a lot. How did you get into molding ashes into glass?

Also, those websites may be getting a reddit hug of death soon. I started working for a company who already had it set up with their business. I hadn't heard of it when I started and I thought it was the coolest thing ever! Can you post some pictures of the ash memorials? 

The reddit hug of death has happened and I can't browse your site. The original post has been edited to include a Facebook link. They have pictures. Do you ever get back story on the person before doing the actual blowing? Any designs based on that? (A glass horse for a lifelong horse lover, etc.)  The only thing I know about the ash, is whether it is a pet or a human, but i just usually base that on the name on the canister of ash. The friends or family get to choose any colors they want and the shape (round or heart). I could definitely make one into a horse, but the company doesn't offer it. But it can definitely be done. "Sorry for the loss of your cat, Captain McSnugglepants."

"That was my grandfather."   such a good show ! What show is this from?  ah i fucked it up ^^ i was thinking about him http://phineasandferb.wikia.com/wiki/Fluffy_Pants_Doofenshmirtz

In the episode doofenshmirtz is holding up his pet cat (which has black fur only at his bottom and legs) and names him after his uncle Flffy Pants although he dont know why his uncle was called this way, bevause he never wore pants No words could eloquently explain how much I adore that show.  Very cool service you guys provide. I took a peek at your personal work, it's awesome! 

But the ashes in a paper weight aren't for me I don't think. Id like my ashes blown into a bong that snoop will smoke out of for the rest of his days. Hop on that for me. Somebody will knock it off the table a week after you're cremated. 

&gt; fuck. Should have went with the paperweight. &gt;Do you ever get back story on the person before doing the actual blowing?

(  ) [Relevant](https://static.fjcdn.com/pictures/5273651_4a16a5_5273651.jpg) That's good stuff. When I watched your video, it made me realize how much is needed to get a glass blowing operation of the ground. I also saw how critical it is that the proper tools are ready to go at each station. How many times have you gotten a lump of hot glass going and realized you can't find the tool you need?

Also, that video has a real Mister Rogers feel to it. Was that what you were going for? We have these rollers you can set the rods on and they turn so the glass doesn't fall off. So if I realized i didn't have the tool, i'd set the rod on the rollers and run to our tool room and grab the right one, come back, and reheat the glass. How long can it sit on the rollers before it explodes?

Or was the guy at the renaissance fair lying to me about that happening without proper annealing. Working on a glass bottle factory I can say no one can tell. Ie last time I took 10 hot bottles and put them in a cooler 2 exploded in the first 10 mins. Then 1 other half an hour later.
Heavily depends on the mix, the operations done on it...
You know that bottles that aren't properly cooled will explode but you can't predict when afaik  Has someone ever asked to make a bong out of a dog? Only today... on this reddit post. Shit, and here I was thinking I was clever.  Really? I knew where this AMA was going when I saw "Glass blower." "It's mostly mowie wowie,  but it's got some Labrador in it! " Went meta pretty quick for an AMA.  A dong why did this make me lose it Hope you get back your dong. Have you ever mixed up the ashes for different orders?   No, we have a person who puts out the color and ash in trays. She is very organized so that's never happened. *that you know of*
 I imagine her spilling some ashes by accident and be like: "oh shit, oh shit, bring me some cigarettes!!!" On that note though, how could you possibly know if you mixed up the ashes once they're no longer in the urn, far as dude knows he could have used the wrong ashes for every single person If we're going down this road, then unless you personally cremated your {dad/uncle/dog/parakeet} , then as far as you know you could have ash from the lady cigarette who work at the crematory.    cigarettes work at your local crematorium? Well, only female ones.  