I know I've already told this story a couple of times, but one year me and my family took a vacation down to Ft Lauderdale, Florida.  We were driving along a beachside road one night when we saw a group of about 30 or so raccoons sitting at the street corner.  Well the light turned red so we came to a stop, and that's when the raccoons all got up at once and proceeded to cross the street.  They waited for the damn light to change. 

edit: /u/mukan7 helped me confirm the exact street corner this happened on, which I confirmed with my dad:  https://goo.gl/maps/nm5yi I saw a roadrunner do that once with a lizard in his mouth. Just sitting there waiting for traffic to stop to go east then again to go south all while the lizard was just flailing around. 

Edit: Hey cool first 1k post. This phenomena occurred in Conroe, Tx on an averagely busy intersection. Pretty wooded area, but a lot of land cleared for development so there was a little "desert" feel to it. And unfortunately there was no coyote.  Are animals getting smarter or something?  I mean that's the logical thing... Dumb ones get hit by cars? Natural Selection. My newest coworker is actually a lizard. He is an I.T. god. I think he sold me some car insurance once. This feels like one of those casual MIB scenes And so you're back from outer space.
I just walked in to find you here
With that sad look upon your face.

FRANK!!! hmm-hmm-hmmm-hm-hm-hm-hm-hm...
   
FRANK!!! Wow, racist much? Not all lizards sell insurance... Lizard people are actually very hard working and the majority secretly run the world while disguised as humans.   The more you know. Silourians  Did you know that spending 15% more on car insurance could save you 15 minutes of talking to a lizard?  How long did it take?  I would say 15 minutes or less.  Can't remember the source, but recently here on Reddit there was a post about Chimpanzee societies evolving towards this principle.  Something like 70% of all 'road crossings' were coordinated and led by the alpha (males or females).  Intelligence and adapting to human environment seems to be driving other primate social structures. I had a dog who learned to watch the walk and wait signs, but he never got to the point of watching for cars turning against the red. May someday evolution will come up with a deer that moves out of the way when a car is coming at it. This.  From GEICO's website:

|  |
|:--:|
| *"According to the Insurance Information Institute, 1.6 million deer-vehicle collisions occur each year, resulting in 200 fatalities, tens of thousands of injuries and over $3.6 billion in vehicle damage."* There was a documentary on PBS (I think about corvids) where they showcased how birds in Japan were dropping nuts with hard shells near roadway intersections so they could be run over and shelled. Then the birds waited until the lights turned red so they could walk over and pick up the shelled nuts.

They've always been smart, they're just using that to live around us better. Same PBS series talked about raccoons. I don't want to make inaccurate summaries but the gist was urban raccoons were smarter than the forest/rural raccoons. They also happened to be developing some other human issues higher bp and cholesterol (because of the food we toss). PBS Nature series Raccoon Nation. Followed urban raccoons in Toronto and it was awesome. Via Netflix http://movi.es/BWUQp?s=a Toronto is actually run by a secret raccoon society headed by the Raccoon King. Nothing happens in city council without the kings approval. That was a really awesome documentary. It was so neat to see such a clear difference humans made to the species, and they did such a good job explaining everything. It was really interesting.  Yup crows do this!  Every animal that a human ever failed to kill was more likely to reproduce than those that were killed... MEEP MEEP!! I saw a roadrunner stop running at a point just millimeters away from a massive boulder that had swung down from a bridge on a rope.  It went right past him, and looped up back over the bridge.  It's as if the roadrunner knew the boulder was swinging into his oncoming path.   Relevant Chuck Jones Rules:




5. The Road Runner must stay on the road -- for no other reason than that he's a roadrunner.

6. All action must be confined to the natural environment of the two characters -- the southwest American desert.

7. All tools, weapons, or mechanical conveniences must be obtained from the Acme Corporation.

8. Whenever possible, make gravity the Coyote's greatest enemy.

 The coyote was not so perceptive Nope, only Wile E. They're so wise.  I once saw a pig burst through my television and bid me farewell I've seen ducks do that on a university campus. Or maybe they waited for cars to stop. Either way they're pretty clever That is the more likely reason but still impressive as fuck  I dunno, if dogs can learn train routes in Russia, I'm sure an animal as smart as a raccoon could figure out the correlation between red lights and stopped cars Maybe. It'd be harder since they're red-green colorblind.  They can still probably tell the difference between the top and the bottom light. I heard that seeing eye-dogs (for the blind) actually watch the traffic to lead the partners.  Was that on Sunrise Blvd near the bridge just off A1A by a fire station? If so that's common spot where people used to feed a group of raccoons. I thought the city put a stop to that a few years ago, so maybe they've formed a gang roaming the streets looting random convenience stores for food.

EDIT: yep, that's exactly the spot. If you drive just a few clicks on that map you'll see the fire station I was talking about Nope, it was raccoon night at the bar down the street. Fifty cent frogs and no cover.   Dude, c'mon. You tell that story ALL THE TIME.  Not this story again. I know. Now he's just beating off a dead horse. that is *not* the expression. Sucking off a dead horse? I really hope that's what happened because this made me laugh. Fuck, now even raccoons are wearing crocs. Either that or crocs are wearing coontail hats.   Davy **Croc**'it fuck, just as clever as the top of this thread Thought of it off the top of his head http://i.imgur.com/g0lbZ3g.gif That raccoon is also a middle-aged female nurse http://i.imgur.com/5AP2GTt.gif http://i.imgur.com/srL9HjN.gif Can't unsee those tiny human hands http://i.imgur.com/F9irfQ8.gif They are really comfortable and easy to get on. It's only a matter of time before more animals learn from this trendsetter.  Then they get eaten once they get dropped off at their "stop." dammit dad My Dad would say something along the lines of looks like the Gators signed another Coon. Followed by a ferocious beating of your step mom when she doesn't laugh That got dark fast... My dad said the same thing about our old neighborhood. Zing!  Jesus, does every fucking funny comment need to be followed by a comment ascribing it to "dad"? Dank! I agree it is kind of annoying when someone makes a silly joke and gets 40 replies with people asking if they're their dad. This will not end well.  Definitely not. Raccoons are dangerous creatures.  2nd that.  That masked man will feast on crocodile eggs tonight. The most metal raccoon ever, ever.  [this says otherwise](http://www.influx.com.br/blog/wp-content/uploads/2015/02/Pb3wfLI.jpg) EVERY FUCKING TIME!!!!! [imgur mirror for those having trouble viewing](http://imgur.com/gallery/fFRPvQK) No fuck you I'm not clicking that bullshit I'll go in and let you know what I find. Was it an imgur mirror or not!? You already clicked it, didn't you?  Here's the real pic  https://i.imgur.com/N16gGaC.png Skinneeeeerrrrr! LifeProTip: Never call Racoon a rodent, they take those slurs seriously. It's true. I've heard they're the honey badgers of the animal kingdom. I thought honey badgers were the honey badgers of the animal kingdom. Honey badger ain't so bad. Just gotta sneak in and get some belly rubs in. If you manage to rub a honey Badger's belly before it mauls you to death, you'll have made a lifelong friend. If not, that badger will destroy you in every sense of the word.  Lifelong....I guess as long as it takes for the honey badger to end your existence. [Apparently they don't mind]( http://i.imgur.com/qHNDGJm.jpg?fb) TIL ~~crocs~~ alligators are taxis. Alligators.  Alligators are taxis  Ubergators? I have it on [good authority](https://www.reddit.com/r/pics/comments/39tj96/someone_in_florida_snapped_a_picture_of_a_raccoon/cs6eqym?context=9) that crocs are NOT alligators.  But they are taxis. *ferries Shameless plug for my subreddit, /r/TurtlesOnThings. the turtle in the middle appears to be saying "WEEEEEEEEE!!!!" [This one did. NSFW turtle getting eaten](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=35VU0pHB7-s) for some reason i didn't expect the turtle to bleed red. Nah, alligators are *suuuuper* lazy. Turtles, birds, and other small animals ride them all the time. Gators are practically biological robots. They won't attack something unless they're being threatened and can't escape, or it fits all their hardwired "prey" criteria.  Would a raccoon not be an easy meal for it? or is the racoon too big for this alligator? The alligator is probably not hungry. Alligators (reptiles in general) metabolize slow, so they don't always eat every single day. I heard from Google just now that alligators can go years without eating  Insane right? They're living dinosaurs. Nah, chickens are living dinosaurs. But crocodilians have been around as long as Cretaceous dinos, and survived the extinction event that wiped out the dinosaurs, making them more badass than T-Rex. That sounds about right for something that's been around for hundreds of millions of years I'm just going to assume it's all nice and fun. The alligator is blind in his old age and the raccoon is just being a friendly neighbor that helps him guide his away around the water. Nobody tell me otherwise! I want to see this Disney movie I like to think that they're the best of friends and go on all kinds of wild and crazy adventures together. Someone at Disney is gonna have a great pitch for a movie come Monday.  I swear to god if I see a Disney movie like that in the next 10 years I will come back to this comment and gild it. It's okay the raccoon found the croc when it was a baby and when it was released into the wild it kept returning to the raccoon. Now they dance together in the water. Racoon: "Buy why?"

Alligator: "Because I'm an alligator." It's like the story of the scorpion and the toad [Maybe it's the same raccoon!]( http://i.imgur.com/ivWTPqa.jpg) [This](http://41.media.tumblr.com/a6027922d9475c66acaa88f048fe65ae/tumblr_mohekuUq4Q1qf47bgo1_500.png)

 [motherfucker](http://i.ytimg.com/vi/IwtdIXWGry4/hqdefault.jpg)

 [is](http://i.ytimg.com/vi/ml6uSvoArM0/hqdefault.jpg) 

[out](http://i.dailymail.co.uk/i/pix/2015/02/18/video-undefined-25CD736600000578-912_636x356.jpg) 

[of](http://i.ytimg.com/vi/cVoONgn19Ic/hqdefault.jpg)

 [control](https://c1.staticflickr.com/9/8366/8465325847_a144288bb7_b.jpg) I assume that you have these bookmarked in a folder called "raccoons riding shit". You've been waiting for this day. all "day" [I mean, just look at this!](http://i.imgur.com/gL6fUQk.jpg) Hey, that 2nd-to-last one is a possum! I dont think so. The length of the snout in relation to the forelimb looks more like a raccoons. It looks like a baby raccoon. It also has darker coloration(compared to an opossum) throughout is body, especially on its face, were it has a darker area around the eyes. someone explain this shit Raccoons catch and train more powerful animals for combat. Officially they are only there as "advisors." Rabies is a hell of a drug. There's a raccoon riding you at this very moment Uber is getting out of control. That alligator probably doesn't even have a hack licence.  Couldn't get to the airport on an ubergator here, they've banned it, have to use a taxi service. Bullshit if you ask me. If my raccoon or I want to ride a gator in to the airport that is our choice. Sounds like something those front page airport hipsters might say Man, Rigby finally grew a huge pair of balls http://www.mematic.com/_/gifs/weirdness/furry%20balls.gif Japan. Wow \O/ &gt;furry%20balls.gif

Yeah... I'm not clicking on that. hmhmhmhmhm [Yes](http://i.imgur.com/QD3Ytjz.gif) ["Ain't no thing like me, 'cept me."](http://i.imgur.com/K0yHt1n.gifv) HAHA I never noticed him adjusting himself. Rocket wanted his own dinosaur movie Okay, Groot has to be around there somewhere.  That is groot

http://i.dailymail.co.uk/i/pix/2012/04/29/article-0-12D3CB40000005DC-623_634x418.jpg WE ARE GROOT! All groots unite! I am Groot I am Groot I'm a Floridian. This is common transportation. In fact, if you *don't* ride a gator.. **you** look dumb. I am also a Floridian and this is true. Horses are so 1800's. ONWARD MY TRUSTY STEED SILENCE, WATER HORSE! This has to be photoshopped.  This raccoons balls would sink that alligator.  Not photoshopped but likely a fake - they both look like taxidermy specimens to me. And gators don't swim with that much of their body above the water. The eyes don't look right either.  I'm from Florida, used to even spend a lot of time in the Ocala, and I can confirm this is the fakest shit I've ever seen. 

The most obvious thing is that when a gator swims in the water only its eyes and nostrils are ever above the water. The back is usually completely submerged. 

https://c2.staticflickr.com/8/7216/7373399338_55c748b15d_z.jpg

http://etc.usf.edu/clippix/pix/alligator-swimming_medium.jpg

It's really rare to see a gators back at all when the water is deep enough. If people see it, they take a pic (selection bias shows on Google, pics of the head only nobody wants to see/use). But trust me, I lived many years with gators in the lake in my back yard (and I fished every day), and you never see their backs. 

NEXT on the fake list is:

1. Gators nostrils are under water??

2. Raccoon is standing on his heels. That species walks on their toes... I forget the term for that. But humans are about one of the only species that walks flat footed.  Florida: America's Australia  I live in Florida. I love Florida This place is weird, very weird. The most fucked up shit happens in this state. And it's great. &gt;The most fucked up shit happens in this state.

Well, can't argue that one. I mean, you *could*.. There is no arguing with /r/Floridaman It's like an almost Australia. Except you have to worry about the people killing you instead of the animals Its a commonplace in nature for two completely different species to coexist and create a positive symbiotic relationship. Even in the case of these two would-be predator/prey species.

What you're seeing here is that the prey (raccoon) is actually using the alligator as a sort-of water bridge to get to otherwise out of reach locations. And what does the alligator get in return? Fuck if I know... The raccoon is the brains. The gator is the muscle. 
It is master blaster.  Who runs the Everglades? Motherfucking Gatorcoon, that's who. Math Blaster? mathter blathter Meth Blister What he gets in return is a tasty treat once he barrel rolls halfway across and can attack in the water where he has the advantage. It should be noted that the gator was shot in the head and the raccoon nursed it back to life over many years. There is a documentary about it. Hey I get that reference! I also got sucked into a 45 minute documentatary about that guy who swims with his pet gator  pocho! Nah. The coon just got startled by the photographer, jumped on a gator, realized "fuck me I'm on a gator" and then hopped right back off.

According to the photographer's dad at least. The bad language was my addition.

http://www.wftv.com/news/news/local/man-snaps-unique-picture-raccoon-top-gator-ocala-n/nmcmC/

But edit to add: kudos to the dad for being honest instead of cooking up some bullshit about raccoons riding gators. You certainly live up to your name They both look artificial to me. The gator's eye looks fake, too reflective in that light. And the Raccoon looks like taxidermy that has been left out in the rain. 

source: seen a lot of live gators and racoons. The eye on the gator is definitely suspicious. I live in Florida and see them fairly often. The raccoons pose as well seems pretty odd. I think it is more likely fake than real. I'm going to agree. I took a second look, and it appears kind of fake. I mean it is Florida, the odds of drunk rednecks with a lot of free time and some spare taxidermy is pretty good. Definitely a fake. The gator eyes are a dead giveaway, and I've never seen a gator ride that high in the water. I was wondering why that raccoon was standing in that awkward pose staring off into the distance instead of staring at the human with the camera.

 ThIs is like a real life Nickelodeon show. Jack ass, raccoon edition That raccoon obviously never read the nursery rhyme about floating down the Nile on the back of a crocodile as a kid. http://imgur.com/0i4UYQT They are a team. One distract you by swimming in your pool while the other empties your trashes. Today they take your trash, tomorrow your life. Today you, tomorrow me. if i lived in ocala i'd be trying to kill my self too Lived in a little place called Lecanto. Made Ocala look like Chicago. What's wrong with Ocala? Was born and raised here, very limited options as far as careers and schools go. In many ways its a large city still trying to be a small town. Well, if you don't own a horse farm, there's not much here for you to do. Such a boring place. lived there for a year.. if your 50+ and love horses it seems like an ok place to be.. if your young.. not so much **It's Croc-y Raccoon!** Am I the only person who strongly feels both these animals are taxidermied? Those eyes don't look real, and the tail on the raccoon seems to be in an unnatural position for an animal standing on something in motion. Who runs Bartertown? The quest this racoon is on must be amazing. I hope he finds the man who killed his father. It's like the scorpion and the frog but the raccoon just knocks over the alligators trashcans and swims away.  Looks like Steve Irwin was reincarnated as a racoon.     Taxidermy.  Look at the Raccoon's pose.  Look at the Gater's eyes.  Floating it out into a lake or river for all to see is someone's (relatively) sick idea of a joke.  Someone snapping a pic and having it hit the top of Reddit is more than they possibly could have ever hoped or dreamed. Yep! I have seen people do this at Ginnie springs, asshole natives being dicks for fun. There are videos all over YouTube of this sort of thing. This is 100% set up and fake. The gators body does not sit like that in water.  The morning after the forest rave party. /r/floridaman Why? Because it's in their nature. stuffed gator + stuffed raccoon + ??? = karma Coming this Summer, from Disney Animation... That raccoon is a stuffed raccoon.

That isn't even a stuffed gator.  That's a toy of some sort.

That's not how gators sit in the water.

That is, however, 100% fake. I can't tell if nobody knows, or if they just don't care. I think people just quickly glance at it, don't think about it at all, and move on.  So I'd say they don't know, but only because they don't care to know. Although, it does look like the gator is creating a wake, or whatever you call it... waves and that. Not saying you're definitely wrong as I have no doubt waves can be photoshopped or caused by something else, just trying to solve the mystery. [You guys never believe anything do you?](http://www.wftv.com/news/news/local/man-snaps-unique-picture-raccoon-top-gator-ocala-n/nmcmC/)

Where do you get that little tidbit about that's not how a gator sits in the water anyways? He's an alligator expert. I AM GATOR [deleted] That raccoon is probably someone you don't wanna fuck with.  It's Sly Cooper, and he's using the tactic of hiding in plain sight. Dude's a pro. This will certainly be a day to remember for all! Here we see a logic problem in the wild *I am Aligrootor.* Friggin Disney World  must be polluting the everglades with their magical plot serum again. To be fair, this is about the most normal thing that's ever happened in the Ocala National Forest  This is probably one of the most Florida things I've ever seen. It bothers me that the rest of the US thinks we're really fucked up or weird, but you have to remember Florida is filled with a culmination of people from all other states... so if **we** are weird, what's that say about your states?    http://memeguy.com/photos/thumbs/log-or-alligator-145822.gif Is this what Uber is like in Florida? For a moment I thought the book was transparent, but that wouldn't make sense "Reading that book made me feel like I was in it!... when I was standing in front of a mirror" http://i.imgur.com/TXXkmfC.gif Almost... Almost a /r/retiredgif right there. That's just, like, your opinion man.  http://i.imgur.com/qIMaB88.gif http://i.imgur.com/qeC2pZa.gif http://i.imgur.com/mWlMLaD.gifv This is much better than everyone just quoting all the lines.  http://i.imgur.com/IC88I.gif [similar reaction](http://www.reactiongifs.us/wp-content/uploads/2013/04/heh_robin_hood_men_in_tights.gif) where can I get one of these mirrors? 

EDIT: [Found it!] (http://www.amazon.com/The-Big-Lebowski-TIME-Mirror/dp/B0012Q2PM2) Amazon has everything man, its google for shoppers I would wager it is... Yeah, well, that's just, like, your opinion, man. I would wager it isn't... I would wager one way or the other. I have that mirror on my bedroom wall, I feel like I've accomplished something every morning, then I realise what my life is actually like. It's one of those new [transparent e-ink displays.](http://i.imgur.com/OfNVVjE.jpg) That's translucent, not really transparent.  Still beats reading an opaque New York Times like some sort of savage. How else are you going to be able to read the NYT and see attacking animals sneaking up to you? I've heard it both ways No you haven't, shawn! You've heard it wrong some of the times then... Transparent is completely see-through, translucent is like you see in that display [deleted] That's opaque  The bush administration was opaque. I think you mean obtuse. No no, obtuse is people who are overweight. The word you want is oblique. &gt; I've heard it both ways

Well there's your problem. Your eyes are typically more efficient than your ears in determining the difference between translucence and transparency. If it makes you feel any better, I understood your reference... &gt; one of those Well there is only one in the picture  I thought it was an [augmented reality](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=09vxKN1zLNI) app running on OP's phone.  Then I was like:  "DAMN!!  That phone has an edge-to-edge screen!"

I was so excited by the new technology until I looked closer and it was paper. Quite the emotional roller coaster for you then? Yes.  I really wanted that phone, but I thought it would be expensive.  Come to find out it's probably quite affordable but the augmented reality only works in one location. What a time to be alive!  Indeed, especially with that phone in particular... ;) ;) Have you seen those new fangled [transparent desktops](https://www.flickr.com/photos/w00kie/sets/180637/) yet? You have to pass it to know what's in it. good job on rewording the top imgur comment yeah, two people can't have the same thought Or having a thought like hundreds of others have shared?  I thought the book was transparent for a moment, but that wouldn't make sense. lafayette ridgeline? Yup, Franconia Ridge looking south from Lafayette toward Lincoln.  One if the best hikes in NH. Was just there, last weekend, cool! I did the Garfield Ridge Trail from Greenleaf hut to Galehead.  I was there last weekend too! Recognized it almost immediately! Did the 9 mile loop going up Old Bridle Path first. Definitely recommend that direction instead of going up the Falling Waters Trail (THAT CLIMB).  GF wanted to see some waterfalls so we did falling waters. We figured, hey why not peak this mountain now there we're here. My god it just kept going... I did that climb 2 weeks ago, it was absolutely dreadful. The last half was all ice.

[Pics of My Climb](http://imgur.com/a/UBb5g) When we did that hike, we went up old bridle path as well. IMO climbing back down via the falling waters trail was a bad way to end the hike though.  Me too! I tried the Pemi Loop! One of us must have run into eachother Saturday? If so, my group probably passed you going the other direction. I was there last week! Did Falling Waters up and camped on Franconia Ridge. Definitely one of the most strenuous hikes I've done. Did not expect there to be snow up there. I did the opposite direction and let me tell you, those waterfalls give you more than enough motivation to finish through bridal path with no let downs on the way as I saw the sun set over lafeyette Lincoln and haystack descending bridal path  What was your dick doing there? Probably just hangin around. I hiked it last week too, but I went up falling waters on Little Haystack then made my way across to GreenLeaf Only thing that beats it is the climb through Tuckermen's IMO.  The top of Mt Washington is one of the most disappointing things ever.  All that work to reach a parking lot and a large building.   Imagine spending 3 weeks hiking there from Mount Katahdin, living in the woods, carrying everything you own on your back, and using your own two feet to carry you there...

...and you get to the top and see a sea of clean-cut, well dressed tourists up there with their cars.

One woman in heels and a summer dress turned to me and said "Wow, how did you get up here?"

I FUCKING WALKED HERE HOW DID YOU GET HERE. You'll find almost all the milestone moments on the trail are like that. But you'll also find that all the nowheres on the trail which don't show up in any trail guide are scenes and experiences which stay with you for the rest of your life.

I went sobo in 2004. Good luck and happy trails to anyone out there. sobo '05 here! I was day hiking in Great Smoky Mountains National Park a few weeks ago and at one point we went to the observation tower at Clingman's Dome. I understand it's similar to Mount Washington: a big parking lot and a bunch of tourists who are taking a break from the multitude of pancake houses and weird Americana that is Gatlinburg, TN. It also sits right along the Appalachian Trail. While we were there this couple, a guy and a girl, in their 20's stumbles out of the woods on the AT with several days of dirt and grime on them into a gaggle of freshly showered tourists.

The girl took one wide eyed look at all the people in their clean clothes and well coiffed hair and started crying. Imagine spending almost 4 months coming from Georgia. When we got there we had a lady ask us where we came from. When we said we had hiked from Springer in Georgia she gave us a lecture about how we shouldn't lie to strangers. I hated Mt. Washington. The rest of the presidentials, however, were amazing. At the top of Greyson we were walking past a little boy who was leaning over and straining to read an scuffed-up AT marker embedded in the concrete. "Maine... to... Georgia? Who would do that?"

"We would!"

We felt like rockstars. Nothing like waiting in line for my summit pic behind a group of 400lb bikers...  the only good part was i didnt have to carry my lunch or half my water. and the bathrooms were niiice Yeah i had to piss pretty bad by the time i got up there.  There's like no coverage for the last quarter of that hike. Had the same experience.  I just walked up to the sign and took a picture.  Im not sure if it was the dirt and the sweat or my look, but none of the tourists in line said shit. Everybody deserves to see summits. Don't be pretentious.  I think that making it easier to access places of natural beauty attracts people that don't necessarily give the location the respect it deserves. Why does everybody deserve to see summits? I had a certain expectation of wilderness-ness, which is entirely unjustified.

I wish it was as secluded as other peaks, for my own selfish reasons. I've only been up there when the road has been closed. I now think I may have a skewed view of what the summit is generally like. It was definitely a bit anti-climactic to finish our 130 mile journey to see tourists in flip flops eating chili dogs, but Washington is an incredible mountain. I've never done more than 20 miles in a trip, but damned if even then I wouldn't be thrilled by a chili dog. Yeah that's true. The climb is amazing though. I was more referring to the ravine anyway. When you get to the top of it you still have half a mile to go or so.  This is why I feel Mt Adams is a better hike.  You get to the top and its 360 degree view of everything.  The only thing getting in your way is a gorgeous view of Mt Washington. Washington, from Adams, getting in the way. Picture from a solo hike I did in 2008.

http://i.imgur.com/2TsPuTM.jpg We climbed up Tuckerman in January. You have to be really wary of avalanches but it was an amazing climb. Tuckerman Ravine and Mount Washington in general are way too overcrowded and touristy in my opinion.  I like the other presidentials a lot better, but Mount Washington is still good. Spend a night at Hermit Lake, and you can climb of Tuckerman early in the morning or climb down later in the evening and have it be fairly quiet.  This. If I do Tuckerman, it's at dawn, and it's usually fantastic. I smoked pot there once. I love that hike. That whole loop is awesome. Can be pretty busy in the summer though. It is! But it's also a tough one! My two friends and I just finished a 12 day section hike on the AT from Hanover to Mt.Washington. Franconia Ridge was one of the coolest parts, it's a great hike.  You're using an old guide book my friend! I actually just started collecting them. Did you notice any discrepancies in the book? The trails change considerably fast believe it or not. I am a volunteer trail maintainer for a trail near Mt Washington and hurricane Sandy completely changed my trail from General terrain to a large part of trail being relocated. The changes are partly why I started collecting old guides.  The Whites are one of the greatest parts! Any plans to do the rest? Franconia Ridge is an amazing hike at night under a full moon. If you ever get the chance try it. Just make sure you're prepared for unexpected weather, and have some camping gear so you won't have to rely on making it all the way to the next lean-to. You are the first person I've ever heard call it Lafayette Ridge instead of Franconia Ridge. I'm going to start calling it that from now on I interned for the Forest Service two years ago in the Whites. Lafayette was my favorite hike there. Go post this over at /r/AppalachianTrail!  Done. Thanks for the suggestion! I'm pumped to see so many New Hampshirites. I'll be doing that hike this weekend. One of my favorites.  New Hampshire best Hampshire Woo NH! I'm from New Hampshire.


And I'm the volunteer adopter for the Falling Waters trail.


And I did the whole loop last weekend. 


Small world :) You guys are making me miss home! I'm hoping to come home for a week or two this summer to do some hiking. Enjoy it! I recognized [that spot](http://i.imgur.com/BYhLKGS.jpg) immediately! I did that loop back in 2011. Such a beautiful hike. I have a picture from a similar spot in winter.

[Franconia Ridge, New Hampshire](http://i.imgur.com/i1eA5OV.jpg) I've only ever hiked it in summer.  This is an amazing shot!  [Story checks out, guys.](http://i.imgur.com/6tUSiFw.jpg)


^^^^appalachian ^^^^trail ^^^^guide ^^^^for ^^^^scale But I bet you lose your keys all the time. One key at a time.  HOW DID YOUR GLOVE GET IN THE COVER PHOTO? [Good thing you weren't reading this book.](http://i.imgur.com/T4eDF9z.jpg) Lonely Planet's cover for [Southwest USA](http://i.imgur.com/qP4BYdE.jpg) isn't quite as...natural. Relevance? Lonely Planet doesn't publish hiking guides. Its [New England](http://www.amazon.com/Lonely-Planet-England-Travel-Guide/dp/1742203000) guide is even less...natural. I'm going to guess without even checking that it's guide to Tokyo is even less...natural. This comment has been overwritten by a script as I have abandoned my Reddit account and moved to [voat.co](https://voat.co). 

   If you would like to do the same, install [TamperMonkey](https://chrome.google.com/webstore/detail/tampermonkey/dhdgffkkebhmkfjojejmpbldmpobfkfo) for Chrome, or [GreaseMonkey](https://addons.mozilla.org/en-us/firefox/addon/greasemonkey/) for Firefox, and install [this script](https://greasyfork.org/en/scripts/10380-reddit-overwrite).  If you are using Internet Explorer, you should probably stay here on Reddit where it is safe.  

 Then simply click on your username at the top right of Reddit, click on comments, and hit the new OVERWRITE button at the top of the page.  You may need to scroll down to multiple comment pages if you have commented a lot. It is the correct ridge. It doesn't completely line up towards the bottom of the photo because we took the picture slightly farther away from the mountain pictured, but this is the right spot. Check out this [pic](https://i.imgur.com/BYhLKGS.jpg) You also have to take in account focal length. The photo on the book cover was probably taken with a longer lens (as in more zoomed in) than the photo taken by OP. Absolutely, which is why we can see stuff around the edge of the book. That doesn't matter, however, he could've gotten it exactly right had he just compensated by holding the book at the correct distance of the camera, as long as the camera was in roughly the right spot, regardless of the focal length used in the original picture. Nah, it looks like the angle is what's off. OP should crouch then lean back and be as uncfortable as possible to get the same frame as the photographer.  This is definitely [the spot](http://i.imgur.com/U4Cib8o.gif). yeah that one is right but OP's is off a good bit.  Notice also the big rocks in the foreground of OP's physical location not being in the cover.  No doubt it's the same mountains in the view but it's not the same location being photographed from. Thats pretty much exactly what the guy you responded to was saying. There could be anything behind that book! Or nothing at all! Who really knows.. Came to say this too! Almost but not quite!  I summon the PhotoShop gods to grace us with the miracle of fixing this atrocity for the sake of my fake, Internet-OCD.  That book is nice and focused, nature is blurry. You have a guidebook for [absconding to Argentina to meet your mistress](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mark_Sanford_disappearance_and_extramarital_affair)? I still can't hear "hiking the Appalachian Trail" without thinking it's slang for cheating. I had to come way too far down to find this. /r/mildlyinteresting [deleted] The foldout map is life sized!! uh, you really need two photos to show this (one without the book)....

still, 8/10. It's uncanny.

What are the odds you'd see a view of trail that you bought the guide for? Awesome -- plus, you know you're not lost! Op is somewhere in the Appalachians! At least he can be pretty sure it is New Hampshire or Vermont unless the book cover choosing department really screwed up. Lafayette is one of my all-time places to hike, and Lafayette campground is a great spot to stop.  Right in my backyard, love NH I live in NH...is that taken from Lafayette looking back at Lincoln from the Francoina ridge?   It's interesting that the book has to be tilted for it to match.  I was there a few years ago. Man I miss those mountains. Dude. Nice find! Who is leaving garbage out on the trail... Nice try, Big Appalachian Trail Guide Printers' Industry. Did you find any South Carolina Congressmen out there too...yuck yuck proud of u Peter  There could be anything behind that book. quality post!  Not too often you get all this neatness in one place. That's what I call nature.  Holy fuck that's cool!  Are you thru hiking?  Sorry if it's in the comments, I got excited and pre-commented...

Edit: yep, I'm a pre-commentator.  Still cool OP. That's pretty neat I would like this to be a thing That fits so perfectly I almost want to call shenanigans.  Awesome photo -- By chance is this the Franconia Ridgeline?  Used to love hiking this spot in highschool! "Honey, let's look for the mountain"  
3 days later  
"I think I found it" [Reminds me of Mount Errigal in Ireland](https://c1.staticflickr.com/5/4114/4938162606_9b70a50c04_b.jpg) Id like to see the picture with the book removed Yea too bad it actually doesn't match up at all. Reminds me of GTA 5 Cool. This would be a good post for /r/mildlyinteresting. That is AWESOME.  I know your inbox is RIP.  But this is amazing.  That is beautiful.  My whole maternal side of the family *was* from there until my granddad died last November, aunt and great aunt died this passed April.   I am sad I no longer have a familial excuse to visit the area.  I grew up on the Appalachian trail and others mostly around Asheville.  This picture is beautiful.  Enjoy your hikes in this area for me, too.    Wow. It's almost like they took the photo in that spot. 

Get this shit to r/mildlyinteresting  the Appalachian trail is fucking gorgeous, and I still hold out the belief that Appalachia (NC to WV) is the prettiest part of the country Pronounced "app-uh-LATCH-in". In NH we pronounce it appa-LAY-chen but maybe that's just us being wrong.  From ny.  This is how i pronounce it also.  NC here. I say latch. VA chiming in. We say latch. It can be pronounced either way (/plen/ or /pltn/), and technically six other ways depending on what sounds are stressed by your regional diction. [Source](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Appalachian_Mountains#cite_note-3). CA here, send us some water. LAY in Canada. Not that we talk about it much here. Western PA here, and I know it as "appa-lay-shin" LAY here in Maine. Same in Alabama except we (or at least I) pronounce the end as shin instead of chen. aaw the whites, enjoy! This is the Simpson's Movie all over again. Jealous. The Appalachian Trail is on my bucket list.  Did you do this on purpose, or were you hiking along and all of a sudden had a sense of deja vu? There seems to me a naturally occuring thumb in the mountains.

But seriously, this is cool. Where's your hand? What happened to your hand??? Franconia Ridge in the Whites of NH? One of my favorite places in the world.  Wow thought it was a clear book at first lol You just gave me a great idea on how to make a treasure map!  In fact, there's probably a pot of gold left by the Appalachian Illuminati where you were standing. I found the street I was on on a map once. You are doing something right. How are the traffic jams?  Mt. Mansfield? Franconia Ridge. Nice.  This looks like Lafayette on the Pemi Loop.  Did it last year, was an amazing hike Does the trail go that far north? Maine to Georgia. Wonder how many pictures were on the phone/camera in an attempt to hit the perfect alignment of book to scenery. Your glove is oddly satisfying to me. You, my friend, are living like Larry. That's beautiful! Nice to see it's not horrendously edited too.  Now I want to do this for every book cover that has a nature picture on it. You going thru?  Nope we just went for 12 days, but now I want to do the entire thing! 
Hey /u/pmoney923,


This is now the top post on reddit. It will be recorded at /r/topredditposts with all the other top posts. This is beautiful. I interpret it as the important distinction between knowledge and experience that is so relevant in the Internet age.  Anyone wanna walk the trail with me? Completely serious.  Been contemplating it for a while. (Very) tentatively thinking 2016 NoBo You even got the right glove color! I'd be worried if you didn't find the guidebook cover on your trip... it'd be a good sign that you were on the wrong trail. The bonds. Gotta be That is AMAZING. You are the most observant people of the week ! Im guessing it wasnt that hard to find.  what's with the hate? that's cool as hell. I grew up in Vermont, it's my goal some day to walk from my home town to the Capitol as a bit of an homage to the wheel-less civilization we displaced Did you see Mark Sanford, the former Governor of South Carolina?  He apparently likes to hike the Appalachian Trail. viewed the image before reading the title.

Thought it was just a clear object, a clever bit of alt advertising meant to say 'fuck a guide book, look around you and go there'

put out a rack of them at some scenic lookout/trail start, make em out of plastic. Seems doable.  Franconia Ridge! This is one of my favorite hikes in the whites. I was hiking in Rocky Mountain National Park a few days ago and I found a bunch KFC leftovers near some trunk. I was really mad when I saw that. Why would some idiot eat KFC in a mountain. Not to mention, that the food would have been cold given how long it would have been to bring it there. I lost touch with a friend from high school.  Years later a ran into him at my son's school.  He is a custodian.  I became a celebrity in my son's eyes because I went to school with "Mr. Smith."  Even his friends were impressed.

I was a little shocked but proud of the respect custodians earned from the students. Good teachers and good parenting.  I think it's awesome an employee with no obligation to be a part of these children's lives has made such an impact they're willing to wait in line just for his signature. I would like to know how many teachers had students line up for their signature. What a guy. My school had a Janitor/Disciplinarian. 

Basically, when we got in trouble, we got sent to Mister G.

Sounds like an unpopular combination right?

Dude taught me to whistle the Twilight Zone theme, the X-Files Theme. Talked about how TV shows like those needed to come back, cracked racist jokes about himself (He was a Black/Mexican named Gonzales) and somehow kept our school clean as a fucking whistle. Some days I'd go get in cleanup duty line just because I wanted to talk about the episode of X-Files I had watched and get some cleaning done.

Mr G was a fuckin G. &gt;Mister G

[Three talents, one two three...](http://i.lv3.hbo.com/assets/images/series/summer-heights-high/character/mr-g-1024.jpg) Beat me to it.
'Welcome to Mr G's room...'
http://youtu.be/c2jXP5wEd98  Yeah, janitors/custodians are always SUPER cool people in my experience.

edit: holy fucking shit, this blew up way more than i would have thought.

also obligatory we did it reddit, danks kind stranger for the gold, etc etc Well, they also don't have to deal with you in the classroom. But they do have to clean up the crap you make all over the school.  I was a janitor for a few years, and the worst messes I ever saw were at the jr high level.

They're not so bad in elementary school. At that age, for the most part, it usually hasn't even *occurred* to intentionally make messes, and if it has, they're usually too scared to do it. The messes you clean up are just the unintentional result of kids being still-developing humans. 

High school isn't so bad either, because by then kids have matured enough to see the futility in it, and usually direct their anti-authority angst elsewhere.

At the jr high level though, it's the perfect storm of kids having the capability and comprehension to make the most disgusting messes you've ever seen, and the immaturity and will to actually carry it out.  Junior high is the age when humans are at their absolute worst.  Why do you think there's a separate school that houses kids from right as they become little shits to right as they mature out of it. In my experience, you don't really stop being a little shit until around the age of 25. found the 26 year old We should be paying junior high teachers as much as fiscally possible, fuck that job.  Stop shitting everywhere As a custodian, stop pissing in the soap dispenser!  Someone took a dook in the urinal.  A mud monkey. A fudge dragon. That's not cool mmmmmmmkay. You think that's funny? 

Mkay?

How would you feel? If someone came into your house and pulled their pants down and took a dump on your moms face?

Mkay? [deleted] But it's my fetish :( But you're the teacher.  no that's my fetish  We can share ;) It's like the school equivallent of a cool uncle.  [deleted] You should send that to your father instead of the Internet. This. My dad is gone, tell yours how much you love/respect him while you still can.  [deleted] You don't have to get gushy.  Even just a "remember when we . . . that was awesome, thanks for the memory" would be appreciated.

My brother reminded me the other day of when I let him live with me for a few months while he was going through some difficulties.  He thanked me, and said he had really enjoyed the time he stayed with me.  To be perfectly honest, it was a bit of a burden at the time, and so in retrospect I'm very appreciative of his gratitude.  I don't say that to set myself up as an example - goodness only knows all the mistakes I've made in personal relationships - only to say that you can show appreciation in a meaningful way without getting into the "gushy" awkwardness. [Think again.](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Fdc765l9psM) The maintenance guy that I had in middle school was so nice. I had no friends at all and half the time would end up eating at the cafeteria by myself. He would always make sure to come over and say and ask how my day was and sit down and talk to me for a bit. I am in college now and work at a grocery store so I run into him on a daily basis and we still chit chat. I wish there were more people like this in the world who take time to help a person when they are down. It made all the difference to me. I cannot tell you any of my elementary school teachers' names except for one. However, I can tell you that Mr. Green, the school Janitor, was the fucking man. In third grade our teacher began to explain slavery because we didn't know what it was and one of the girls asked, "Like Sal?"  (Sal Fiesta was our dark skinned Italinan janitor).  The teacher told us how he was paid and could leave at any time.  Must have been an awkward moment for the teacher. Sal Fiesta. You make that up? I don't know about  Italian, but in spanish, 'Sal Fiesta' means salt party. Better than a limon fiesta.  depends on who you ask Salt party is more like Fiesta de Sal, not sal fiesta Sal Fiesta sounds like a lost Jimmy Fallon character. [deleted] Ours was Tyrone. He made a point to smile and say "hello" to every child he passed in the halls. Not even the teachers did that.  Ours was named Al and he would carry a trash can around the lunch room saying "Trash fellas, trash" the whole time.  Also would randomly say "Junkyard Dog!" and start barking until we gave him our trash. I think your janitor may have been Frank Reynolds. They used to play this game called "Night Crawlers" behind the bleachers. Are....are you the infamous Leroy Brown ?? Yes!! My high school janitor was named Chano. He was the bomb.  My High school Janitor gave me the master key for senior pranking purposes. Her name was Mary the key was very real, and her only words of wisdom were "If you get caught you fucking swallow this key."  Oh man, I remember this one janitor we had.
I had lost a football on the roof one day, and I asked him if he could help get it.  To which he replied "hmm yeah its about that time of the year" I had no idea what he meant by this, and just thought he was going a little batty. So he gets his ladder and climbs up. A small crowd had gather to see what was up. And then it happened... Balls.. dozens of balls come raining off of the roof... It was glorious.  I did this today. It's fucking brilliant. I just remembered this happening at my elementary school. Our school was at the bottom of a big hill, so if you stood on top on the hill, you could see on top of the roof. And the dozens of kickballs, footballs and frisbees that were up there. The day our custodian got the ladder was like Christmas. Custodian here, I'm awesome Fellow custodian here. We are awesome.  Former custodian here, I wish I was still awesome. :( One of the custodians in my high school a while back got arrested for selling e and other pills to students. I guess he was well liked as well.  Must a man be a janitor his whole life? Can we really blame him for practicing for pharmacology school? Found out years after I graduated that my old computer room teach was arrested for CP.  Never would have suspected.  Was always cool to us and made the class fun. So true. They're always there to talk to you as well and offer advice. Atleast in my school anyways. My janitors just smoked pot with me.  We had one who was a boxer. Said he got hit in the head too many times, that's why he had to be a janitor. When we asked him what he was doing on the weekends, he'd always say "I'm going to church to pray for your souls". He was a really awesome guy.  I think that's the reasoning.  This guy is not their teacher and he's there every day with them,  i remember my elementary school custodians,  we had two.  They are so nice and pleasant and never told us recess was over. 

He was in jail with the kids  &gt; He was in jail with the kids 

I first thought he got caught molesting kids or something. In jail with the kids. His paradise. The beauty of metaphors. [deleted] A friend of mine did that. Now he's a part of the maintenance staff at UNM. After he found out that they made more money than he likely would with his MSW degree, he applied. He's been there over twenty years now, and his kids even got some great deal on tuition, maybe even free? Plausible, I know a few janitors that work at our local unis and before 2010 tuition for their kids was free. Now its either a quarter or half.  That awkward moment when a school can't even afford itself. Can't, or won't? Definitely won't. Yup if he worked for UNM in any sort of full time position he got a couple of free classes every semester. Source: work for UNM Most of the time faculty and staff of a University will get free tuition for their children, some even offer discounted tuition to other schools. My elementary school janator was awesome. He would let us help by taping the extra pices of scrubby stuff from the floor cleaner machine to our shoes and we could scrub out black sneaker streaks.  I can't recall now why it was fun but as an 8 year old it was awesome. I've really liked the janitors at my schools. In Secondary school they were really cool guys and at my university he was the best. The Janitor at my uni was like the coolest most chill guy ever. 

Unfortunately he got fired because some of the other staff members didn't like him :( The student union and the students had the best relationship ever with him though, so that was a loss for us. Not the janitor, but a professor well liked by the students (he was really tough on the exams though) was fired from the faculty due to "politics". We (the students) objected and wrote a formal complaint. 

He was re-hired.

Super cool guy, with an exceptional knowledge in his field and a knack for teaching. Ill never forget Mr J.  He was our elementary school janitor.  He had like an old man charm with a hip kid attitude.  He always told this joke that he swallowed a whistle when he was a kid and would open his mouth as wide as he could and whistle. Blew my mind every time. I agree for the most part, however the janitor has no obligation to discipline or otherwise have any negative contact with the children.

He's kind of like the cool aunt/uncle who shows up on Saturday, takes you to the zoo, out for lunch, to the movies, etc.  All the fun stuff without any of the crap. But he sort of deserves that reputation. He is the one who works all day picking up trash, cleaning the bathrooms, working as late as most teachers, and being looked down on by a lot of people as a person who has done nothing with their lives (it's an awful stereotype in my opinion). 


It reminds me of the janitors response to Bender in the Breakfast Club. 


"Oh really? You guys think I'm just some untouchable peasant? Serf? Peon? Well, maybe so. But following a broom around after shitheads like you for the last 8 years, I've learned a couple of things. I look through your letters. I look through your lockers. I listen to your conversations, you don't know that but I do. I am the eyes and ears of this institution, my friends." Most people wouldn't wait in a line this long for select rides at Disneyland Thanks for cleaning up my shit.

"No problem " - Jan Man I'm a man and my name is Jan.

Never have I felt cooler than right now. :( The Jan Man can, and he does it with a smile and never judges you. He empties trash and mixes it with love and makes the world feel good Who can take this diaper? JAN MAN CAN I don't mind at all! The name's Itor    
 Jan Itor I think you're pretty cool, Jan Man. You the man, Jan.  [deleted] HAH! nice to know there are more of us, I'm Scottish/English though, so.. he's not me.

Send him my love though, Jans unite! Doctor Jan Itor !!! the worst thing about being a primary school janitor is cleaning up vomit...

(although maybe i shouldn't drink four cans of special brew at breakfast.) I can't believe primary school kids are showing up hungover now. Man, kids these days, amirite?  Yeah but you have that awesome powder to sprinkle on it.  That shit was mind blowing to 6 year old me... tl;dr janitor, you have mind blowing janitor powder "I only sign this if you know what my real name is." "...Mulva?" In my elementary school, the custodians were friendly as hell, and every student knew every one of them by name. Kids just love custodians/garbage men/etc.

EDIT: For everyone replying to this, how many of you still remember their names? Because I do and that was 20 years ago. He who retrieved the tennis balls from the roof. He who picked up your lunch when you dropped it on the floor. He who cleanith the poopith from thy dirty seat. He who threw that saw dust stuff on the floor when you puked up your lunch.  He who retrieved my right shoe from the roof. Praise be unto Him, for He who moppith is He who moppith away. I lived next door to the school and the janitor was always giving us neighborhood kids free balls from the roof.   We loooooved our janitor so much in kindergarten and first grade. We would walk outside for recess and the old fart would be mowing the lawn with a beer in his hand as he'd smile and wave back at us. That sounds like something out of Adam Sandler movie. I mean the good ones.  Thanks you for clarifying, and I agree.  Because kids know the value of hard work without the fucking bullshit of prestige or social standing.    

My elementary school janitor was deaf, and only communicated via sign language.   I was wearing a shirt with my name on it once, he stopped me, pulled out his drivers license excitedly and showed me that his name was the same as mine.  It was an awesome moment, and I'll always remember that guy.    I don't think kids really understand that *that* well.  Rather, usually the janitors are nice and the kids can get along with them, but teachers are an authority figure that saps all fun at that age.

I liked my elementary school janitor, but it really wasn't because I recognized hard work over bullshit of prestige or social standing...  I don't think those are really concepts I understood, or put value in at that age. I think that was the point.  Kids don't know prestige or social standing.  But, they can recognize someone who is working hard and is nice. Khalku is saying that they don't recognize hard work. They recognize that the dude is smiling and nice, when the teachers have to be the ones to keep everyone in line. The custodians can just float around the halls, doing their job, and if they are friendly, the kids appreciate that. I am sure there are some dick custodians out there that the kids hate no matter how hard he/she works. Kids do not know the value of hard work, but you're right they dont really understand prestige and social standing until their asshole parents imprint their tiny dumb brains with it. You are forgetting your time in school. Social standings develop naturally in school. A good parent tells their children that all people deserve a base-line level of respect, but if you tell children that society is not hierarchal then you are lying to them.  Our janitor was so fucking cool in primary school. No real reason, he just interacted and joked with the kids. He also stored a huge box of lollipops in his supply closet for kids birthdays (he'd give 25~30 to their teacher to hand out to the class).

Funny how I can remember him so clearly, but there's tons of teachers I can't even remember from my schools now it's like 20 yrs later. [deleted] Was at a banquet when an education professor quoted this in a speech. My CS professor whispered to our table "I don't give a damn how you feel. Just remember what I taught you." Best professor Same here. Our dude's name was Rodney, and I remember when, one christmas, I got a stuffed reindeer named "Rodney the reindeer" that I thought was so cool that I took him to school and showed the guy. He was cool about it and said "Well it's a good name!" I will certainly never forget the janitor in my middle school. He had a hook for a hand and he was always scowling at people. I wouldn't be surprised if he was a pirate before he became a janitor.  I'd totally get a brush attachment instead of a hook-hand, tell kids that if they didn't behave the school would cut off their hand, stick a brush on there and make them be a janitor there forever...

But then again, I'm an asshole... I feel I wouldn't make a good janitor. This just jogged a memory for me. When I was in 3rd grade I and some other students would write letters back and forth to the janitor Bob that cleaned our classroom. Just things like "Hi, how are you? Thanks for cleaning our room" and he would write notes back. But my mom eventually saw some of the letter from him and when i told her Bob was a janitor she flipped shit and told me to never talk to him, and complained to my teacher. I guess she thought he was a pedo or something. Makes me feel bad looking back.  You should call up your mom and remind her that she's a terrible person. Mine is perhaps the last American generation to grow up without "Stranger Danger" being a common thing.  Now I'm 43 and I am a Boy Scout Leader.  We take all kinds of classes about warning signs of Pedophilia.  One of them is "grooming", which perhaps these notes could fall under.  However, so could any friendly gesture of a stranger to a child.  It's disheartening to see how isolated we are becoming as a society because of overblown fear of strangers.  The overwhelming majority of people are kind, decent people who will chat with you and help you out in a pinch.  Now you'd hardly know it because of our mutual fear of each other.

TL;DR: Old man yells at cloud I was teaching overseas and realized how much this is engrained in Westerners. *I* would be terrified when children were too friendly with me - like it would be seen as something bad. Teachers over there hug and comfort children, and I was terrified of being friendly even in front of other adults. It's very sad. Yeah, part of the training is how to spot pedophiles.  The rest is "How to not get sued for being [mistaken for/falsely accused of being] a pedophile".  it made me sad. *throws hands in air* I SWEAR THIS CHILD JUST BUMBED INTO ME I AM NOT AROUSED! &gt; Stranger Danger

The ironic thing is children are rarely kidnapped or harmed by strangers. It is almost always a family member or a trusted adult who harms kids or kidnaps them.

Coincidentally I bring this up in a thread about janitors. My elementary school janitor is now a registered 'sex' offender for this reason alone. He 'kidnapped' his children while him and his ex-wife were going through a divorce. He was convicted, lost his job, and now has to be registered as a sex offender. 

He was a very nice and happy guy, Mr Hamilton was his name, his wife on the other hand was probably a bit psychotic. I often wonder what he's up to. 

Yup. Kidnapping your own children in a custody battle deems you a sex offender. Thanks America.

*edit* here's a good [link](http://news.discovery.com/human/psychology/stranger-child-abductions-actually-very-rare-130514.htm) with some of the stats and explains that "stranger danger" is pretty ridiculous. I'm confused. How was this treated as a sex offense? I would bet all the money in the world that there is more to that story that the janitor didn't tell him. Whenever someone tells you why they were convicted of a crime and it doesn't make sense, there is *always* more to the story. I'm not sure I'd say the overwhelming majority are kind decent people... But they're not gonna molest your kid. As long as you pick the person randomly and don't let them pick you, you'll almost always pick a good person. what the fuck...? Your mom sounds like she sucks based on the limited amount of info you gave  Did he get fired? Pls no. :( ["You the man professor!"](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-9MnqNXuxy4) Thank you for giving me exactly what I was looking for.  UP PUP PUP PUP PUP I'm a janitor, so I couldn't think of the word "sad". I was gonna say, it makes me feel so "mop.". You wearing your shorts? KNIFE WRENCH! For kids.  [:-|](http://i.imgur.com/1seG5jK.gif) I posted that same gif a minute ahead of you and got immediately downvoted.. [I'm watching you, Itor](http://static.gamespot.com/uploads/original/709/7099775/2450430-0080613189-5x5Ja.JPG) He's still mad about that penny you stuck in the door. [It's okay.](https://s-media-cache-ak0.pinimg.com/originals/68/ea/9a/68ea9a69dba3765d4caf78d371babf51.gif) http://i.imgur.com/5xriFji.gif Monday/Tuesday: Shorts

Wednesday: Wash them.

Thursday/Friday: Shorts

Saturday and Sunday: Optional, I'll be wearing shorts.


Edit: Source: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kX3usHMLtD0 See, you know he doesn't get is that I could have been a janitor anywhere. When I got out of college, I had offers, man. Morgan Stanley, DuPont. I even considered taking a year off and cleaning my way across Europe. But no, I chose a hospital. [Reference: Scrubs - Season 2 - Episode 4 - "My Big Mouth" - Opening scene after the intro song](https://youtu.be/Z8wU5bj12kg?t=168) He signed my book Dr. Jan Itor Willie hears ya. Willie don't care. That's it, you're out of the brain trust! Neil Flynn went on Celebrity Jeopardy recently. He absolutely slayed. I went to a small private school in northeast Georgia for 12 years.  The janitors there were a married couple, Ruth and Ben.  I will never forget them.  They were so kind to me all throughout my years there.  I graduated in 2000, my younger brother, who ended up going there, was 2 at the time.  So here we are, 15 years later, and I am at his graduation the other weekend.  Who was there?  Ruth and Ben, hand in hand.  They remembered me immediately and the firm embrace they gave me was met in kind.  I let them know I was doing great, happy, and healthy and that it was so great to see them again.  And yes, they signed my yearbook every single year I was there.  I went to a very small, accelerated high school and our custodians were also a couple. They were some of the kindest, most insightful people I ever met. 


Tom was a retired cavalry officer (Colonel/O-6- he always wore a hat with the insignia and his wife referred to him as "The Colonel") and Helen was a retired teacher. The way that it was explained to me, a month after Tom retired, their house burned to the ground. While the house was being rebuilt, Tom found retirement to be extremely tiresome. Eventually, he took the job at the school just to keep him busy. 


  They loved the job so much that they sold their home and moved into the old custodial residence, which was actually a nice old Craftsman-style bungalow which had fallen into disrepair. They quickly fixed up the place, but worked for room and board, using their respective pensions for operating expenses. 

  
Fantastic people. If you ever ran into difficulty in your Religious Philosophy, Advanced Chemistry or Latin classes, Tom was the man to know. Calculus? Helen had you covered. Problems at home? They were both extremely positive, motivating and willing to help. They genuinely cared about each student and it showed in all that they did. 

  
I heard through the grapevine that Tom passed away after suffering a stroke a couple of years ago. Helen contracted some form of cancer and died months later. The world was truly a brighter place with them in it.  I love how they are the go to for various troublesome subjects, that is a better tale than mine, but they seem like a very similar couple! Yeah, they were almost like something that you would read in a book. 
I mean, he was an O-6, but decided that it would be more fulfilling to live on the grounds of a cathedral and tiny school, to clean up the cafeteria, bathrooms, fix the landscaping and talk to kids who needed a sympathetic ear. 

Who does that? I know that I couldn't- at least not in this stage of my life. 


  About their various specialty subjects: the funny part was that the teachers would direct students to them if the kids were struggling. Sure, we had official tutors, teacher office hours and the like, but if you wanted experienced one-on-one help, they would send you to the custodians. They would even help you over lunch (which Helen would sometimes make for you if she really liked you). 

  
When I say that it was an accelerated school, I mean that the average student had skipped two grades (the entirety of middle school in my state), but some jumped more. Add to that the fact that we were all taking college-level courses, completed with university-focused course material and we 12-16 year-olds were under a tremendous amount of stress. My favorite science teacher, who recently passed away, loved to tell us that if we didn't have at least five hours of homework a night, something must have been wrong with one of the teachers. He wasn't kidding. I had an awesome janitor in elementary school. He was always helping kids when he had time.  With homework, or any problem they had.  He often would sneak us home made Mexican candies his wife made. And was serious on the anti-bully.  He would always break up fights and talk  with both kids.


I  remember one awesome thing he did for my friend.  I had a friend in 6th grade that occasionally pee'ed himself (some medical condition I think).  He was horribly teased when it happened.  He had gone almost the entire year without a problem, but this lunch/recess he had an accident.   So we ran to Mr Pardo the janitor.  He told us not to worry, had our friend change into a painting smock while he rinsed off his clothing.  Has my friend change back into his now clean (but wet) clothing.   Then he "accidentally" turned on the sprinklers on the recess field, and everybody ran out there playing in the sprinklers.   Nobody ever knew my friend wet himself, since everyone was wet. 


Mr. Pardo you rocked.  I found out he passed away a few years ago.  You had a lasting impact and memory for the students you helped. 


**TL:DR  Awesome Janitor helped kid who wet himself by turning on sprinklers soaking everybody** For a moment, I thought this story was going to end with Mr. Pardo proudly pissing his pants, and daring anyone to laugh at him. 

His solution was probably better. That's even better than the Billy Madison approach My dad just retired as the custodian/groundskeeper at a private catholic school in Florida.  Kids burst into tears when they found out he was leaving.  He said that they liked him because he was an adult who wasn't an authority figure.  If he caught teenagers doing things they shouldn't be, he would say "I'm not going to tell, but if you get caught, you're going to get in trouble."  Usually that was enough to get them to stop.  He entertained the students on his lunch hour by feeding squirrels from his hand.  He was immensely strong when he first got there, lifting and placing a 200 lb concrete statue into place on his own.  That strength and would eventually be the reason why he left.  His vetebrae are severely damaged and will need to be fused in places.  His knees need to be replaced, and his wrists are "on fire" more often than not.   And the most heartbreaking thing is trying to understand why your parents keep using the janitors as an example of who they don't want you to turn out like, so do well in school or else! In your tiny child brain your can't make the connection cause the janitor is an awesome friendly guy and everyone loves him, he has more time for you than your own dad and he always makes you laugh. I quit school once i saw my first years tuition. Got a job as a custodian, make more money than some of the kids that I went to high school with that graduated from uni.  At my highschool (not elementary!), the janitor team was held up to some godlike level. They were all very friendly people and most people didn't even dare to make a mess. In terms of authority they were held to the same level as the dean. 

The head janitor was with the school for over 40 years (he lived next to it) and there was this unwritten rule that if he said you should do something, you fucking did it. People didn't refer to him as janitor or anything, just by his first name: "Jaap". When the guy retired there was a retirement party that had over 8k people there: old school staff, old students (some over 50 years old by now) and what not.

As a byproduct, littering around and in the school was pretty much at a minimum, which caused the school to be pretty much spotless because the janitors could actually focus on cleaning up the school instead of being replacement garbagemen. These stories are so weird. My high school janitor crew was basically just all drop outs of the highschool from my year. Which i never understood, they dropped out of high school to get a job at the highschool during the exact same hours they would be at school.  But now they're being paid to hang around you guys. 8000? Are you exaggerating?  I'm sure no one will read this, but I want to write it.  When I was in Elementary school, we had a janitor that was amazing on the banjo.  One day he came to our class and played and they played it on the loud speakers for the other classrooms to hear.  That guy was amazing.   By the end of the fourth grade, the janitor was actually the person I hung out with the most. Are you Michael Scott? That was the lunch lady, you filthy casual Dude probably enjoys season 8 and 9 too Favorite character was Brian the camera man. Our Janitor was named called Radar.  He ruled.  

Side note:  

Did anyone else's school have this weird sand they would pour on children's vomit before sweeping it up that?  The combination of that weird sand type substance/puke smell is forever imprinted in my brain.   I love that he's planning for a long day and has a bottle of water with him, lol. He's done this before. Quite the pro. You can't tell from the picture, but his agent is standing about fifteen feet back, making sure everyone's paid their $20 autograph fee always be nice to the man/woman who cleans the bathrooms and takes out the trash. i always appreciate the custodial staff when the mexican lunch special doesn't sit right and i have a clean toilet to use. imagine if everyone in my building gave a custodian a $5 gift card (Amazon, Starbucks, who knows). The custodial staff has earned well more than a cup of coffee on me. Once my loans are situated, I'll be able to take better care of them. They call him "The Professor". He actually saved the life of one young student by defending his makeup choices. There are so many good lines that happened when he played that role. 

"Do not bathe the students"

"I've sized you up, I've stripped you down..."

"Keep them [grades] up, up, up!"

Maybe Charlie Day is just hilarious.  I'm serious I will eat that eraser whole.
 This kid is a juggler... Our school janitor used to be a boxer back in the 60s. Every year on his birthday they'd play "Eye of the Tiger" over the PA. Really miss that guy. I loved my elementary school janitor. He was the biggest, strongest man in the school. He pronounced garbage "gar-bahj." He'd call you out for littering and if your lunch table was too dirty, he'd hold you from going out to recess. And in the winters he went outside to the dumpsters without a jacket.  He's a Fucking Alpha Janitor I said 'Blood and thunder' to a friend when i was at school.

The caretaker/janitor looked at me and said 'Carry on saying that, you'll turn into an Orc!'

it was majestic. That day i found out the janitor played WoW Did he said "Job's done!" before ending his shift? My elementary school janitor was so beloved by us kids. He was probably 50 but he seemed 100 to us. His name was Alfred. He was tall, grey hair, bespectacled, and very sweet. Later, when I was in high school, I worked at a video rental store. One night Alfred walked in and rented about a dozen of the nastiest hard-core porn movies we had. Ruined my childhood. 20 years ago or so the Janitor at my old public school caught me and some friends after hours breaking a window and vandalizing some stuff, he gave us the option of working an hour a day for 2 months and he would come up with a lesser stupid thing we did to tell our parents why we would have to stay to help him or the option of calling the police and reporting our names, what happened etc. (it was a small school in a small town, everyone who went there was within 10 a minute walk so no busses)

He warned us that he did the same stupid things as a kid which was why he ended up being a janitor at a school, and even did some time in jail. 

We obviously choose the no police option, and he covered for us at school saying he accidentally broke the window while cleaning it and made us clean up the other messes we made.

He ended up telling us some crazy stories of all the stupid shit he did when he was a kid and all the crap he went through, we all stopped being stupid and vandalizing peoples stuff. 

If it were a regular person who didn't care about seeing kids go some place in life he would have called the cops and it could have very well been the start of a very bad path for me and the other kids involved. He gave us a second chance.. 

I went back years later with a case of beer and got shitfaced with him in my old public school while we caught up. Was a solid dude. 

He had a more positive influence on me than all my teachers with the exception of 1, I would say they are both the reason I didn't end up in prison or dead by now.  Thanks fellas! I'm a custodian and these comments made my day. 

Being a custodian is like being the kids "cool uncle" at the school. I high five and fistbump the kids. They make fun of me and I make fun of them lol. 

There is one kid who has special needs and he wanted to help sweep during lunches. After a couple of weeks of hitting kids in the face with the dust mop handle (because it was to long) I bought him his own adjustable dust mop for Christmas! He loves it. 

Also just last week he wanted to hold my key ring so I ended up making him his own lol. Just some non-working keys and some paper towel holder keys. 

He's a great kid and I feel like God blessed me to make him happy!  My dad is a janitor at the poorest elementary school in my city. Some of those kids receive no love or attention at home. But when my dad sees them in the lunchroom he does what he can to let those kids know that they are important and that he does care about them. He comes home some days and is so sad and just tells me that he loves me. Some of those kids don't get to eat at home, my dad buys them an extra lunch. No one will talk to some of them at home, my dad will sit down at their lunch table for a minute or two and ask them how their day is going. I love my dad. I'm going to go call him.

TL:DR Janitors are people too, not just all loser drop outs. In high school I was the loner whom everyone despised. I had decided pretty early on that I was going to kill myself at the beginning of the school year. Before I died I wanted someone who would remember me, so I decided on one of the janitors at my school. She was so friendly and caring. I think she could tell I wasn't right in the head so she worked hard with me. By the end of the year she made sure I had tons of friends, both staff and student alike. She helped me with my social awkwardness but also helped me feed my needs (she would bring a different book for me to read every week). She saved my life. When I told her before I graduated high school she broke down crying saying that she knew. Turns out her daughter had killed herself in high school and she saw the same warning signs in me. Freaking respect your school janitors, they are special people. Walter R. Bemis elementary school in Troy Michigan was named in honor of a custodian that worked for the school district. 

In the 80s the school won a national exemplary school award and Mr. Bemis, who was in his late 80s at the time, was invited by the school district to receive the award in Washington DC. 

That night with hundreds of people present and many schools receiving awards and many important people speaking at the podium, only two people received standing ovations when they were introduced. The president of the United States and a retired custodian from Michigan. 

Mr. Bemis passed away in 1991, twenty days after his wife of 72 years preceded him. 

Mr. Bemis is my grandfather.  I worked with 3 different custodial staffs for 3 summers. They are just normal dudes that know how to clean up shit and take shit from everyone.

Seeing this made me really happy. So often are the men and women behind the building kept out of people's minds. 

Shout out to Eddie and Lance, and RIP Pete. Wow! Just remembered Mr. Early from 40 years ago. Thanks for helping me to remember him, he was a decent old guy.
 Back in middle school we had this janitor in the lunch room that we all befriended and sometimes we would even "rap battle" him. Here I am 6 years later at my college orientation, and guess who's there? Turns out he worked for the middle school during certain hours then would go to the university after he was done. I go up to him and I say hey and his face blanks for a minute. He responded with "you know my name?!" I said yes of course, I still miss our rap battles. He looked thrilled just at the thought that I remembered him. It was the biggest combination of happy/sad/nostalgia I've ever experienced at the same time before  Can we get the man some shade? Looks like he's going to be in the sun for a minute.  "When life throws up in front of you, put sawdust on it and keep walking."
- Fred the Janitor "See you on the front page" - Janitor Still remember mine, Mr. Ray David.  My elementary school (K-8) had an awesome Janitor, Mr. Jefferson. Very friendly, always wore an Atlanta Braves hat and a navy blue school t-shirt. Always got him to sign our yearbooks.

He was also like the only black guy on staff, so every February they would have him do a black history month thing, and I remember him singing Follow the Drinkin Gourd. I work for a news station, and just got off the phone with the school where this was taken. They have already gotten a couple of calls from media about this, and "Mr. Steve" the janitor, is completely blown away. http://www.wilx.com/news/haveyouseenthis/headlines/Photo-of-Students-Lining-Up-for-Janitors-Autograph-Goes-Viral-306298201.html [deleted] Who has a bigger impact on a 9 year olds life than the guy who throws the balls down off the roof?  Custodian, dick!  Abbazabba you my only friend  Custodial engineer* a master of the custodial arts, or a janitor if you want to be a dick about it Maintenance technician. Here, a little something for your troubles  Thank you scientist.  Got any papers?  Oh yeah, I remember that. It was like Thurgood, Ryan, Kenny, Scarface, and of course Lovable old James My janitor in elementary school was a lovely lady who knew every kid's name.  She was an immigrant from Guatemala who worked hard to start a new life in Canada.  When she eventually left my school, the school gave her a giant scrapbook with pictures and thank you's from all the students.  She was in floods of tears.  I still remember her name: Mrs Garcia.  
 Janitors really do have a great impact on the school atmospheer. I don't know if I can adequately put this into words, but for small children, janitors can be very important.  I was a small child who had shit parents and was horribly neglected.  Janitors at school were, for me, comforting.  The teachers were intimidating and my world scared me but janitors?  Always a calming presence.  Bringing order to a world that for me featured nothing but chaos.  Someone told me once there is never any shame in making an honest buck.  I agree. A person who most likely works the hardest, gets paid the least, and yet makes the most Difference. Go Figure!


  In high school, we had an assembly where a Navy rock band played cover songs for the entire school in our gym. Mitch (the coolest custodian) was at the entrance to the gym, handing out Navy recruitment pamphlets to each of the students that entered. He was also kindly informing students to "join the Navy and blow shit up." The janitor at my primary school was the nicest man in the world. He had a calendar on his wall in which he wrote the birthday of every kid in school. On someone's birthday he'd come into our class, get the kid to stand on the table and everyone would sing happy birthday and that kid would get to choose a candy from a basket he had. 

He had to go on sick leave for a while after falling off a boat and breaking his hip and I'm sure he got a handmade get well soon card from every single student. Even on our last day of school he came in to see everyone. 

Mr McGarry left a lasting impression on everyone that attended that school and was one of the sweetest guys. Last I heard about him was last year when he was having a beer with my brother in the local pub. c:  There was this guy in his 60s that was the head janitor at my elementary school.

One day, in the 4th grade, I threw my paper lunch bag away after eating lunch. I forgot that there were a couple of Tupperware containers in it. I was so upset. I thought I would get in so much trouble. (Which I wouldn't have.) I was so upset, I was begging the teacher to let me go look for them, but she wouldn't let me.

But she called him and told him what happened. About a half hour later I saw him come into the classroom holding them. I ran up and hugged the fuck out of him, tears running down my cheeks. He had gone through every garbage can in the lunch room and outside until he found them.

That was over 40 years ago. Now schools suspend 4th graders for biting their sandwiches into the shape of a gun. Principal has issue with high school girls leaving lipstick "kiss" marks all over the mirrors in the girls bathroom. Janitor has to clean it off every night. 

Principal calls the girls into the bathroom and says "Poor Carl has to clean these mirrors every night. Show them Carl." 

Carl dips squeegee into the toilet and washes the mirror. Kiss marks never appear again.

I don't care if this story I heard is true or not because it should be true. Got a very similiar, yet even more dragon-like, picture from my apartment near Fenway. http://i.imgur.com/8Z6P795.jpg  It's Sirius Black My dear, you have the grim. No fucking way Yes fucking fenway I keep staring at it thinking it has to be intentionally altered, the resemblance to a dog with its mouth open is crazy, complete with folded dog ear and dog nostril!

Edit: a letter &gt;dog

Dragon. It's a Luck Dragon. MUFASA?!! ARF [ALF](http://4everstatic.com/pictures/674xX/art/movies/alf-194418.jpg) That's amazing!
 Looks like a poodle. My mind went here: http://vignette1.wikia.nocookie.net/frightnight/images/7/7c/Fright_Night_1985_Intrada_CD.jpg/revision/latest?cb=20141101055415 Never ending story^y^^y^^^y^^^^y Neverending story remake confirmed, these are clearly shots from where Bastion and Falkor chase the bullies at the end. I hope you East Coasters made us Midwesterners proud and stood on your porch to watch it come. This is hilarious. While growing up in Kansas we would stand on our porch and watch supercells come in.  I'm in Baltimore and my neighbor said he wanted to see a tornado. I explained to him that in the flat geography and low density housing of the midwest you could conceivably see a twister from miles away. Here in Baltimore you wouldn't see it until it cleared the row houses across the street. I went back inside when the wind picked up. You'd be surprised. Most tornadoes that get close to urban areas out here always seem to be rain wrapped. I should have said when the wind and rain picked up. The porch was offering no protection from getting wet. Also, for what it's worth, it seems that most of the really wicked storms in my area occur at night, when you wouldn't be able to see the fuckers even if they weren't rain-wrapped.   Still though, I'll admit that my first reaction when I hear the sirens go off is to step outside and see what all the hooplah is about.. I live in the Ohio Valley. In my lifetime, I have seen a few water spouts but only one landed tornado. We get tornado watches frequently enough and even radar indicated tornado warnings occur on a common enough basis with no actual tornadoes that I have always idiotically ignored them. When my phone blew up with severe storm warnings, then a tornado watch, then a tornado warning all within a few minutes I didn't really think anything of it. It was starting to rain, but nothing bad at all.

I went out to the kitchen to get a drink. I noticed it had gotten darker and was even hailing a bit. As i was leaving the kitchen i heard what sounded like a tree cracking, which was weird because it wasn't really windy, so i went over to the side door to see what had happened. I watched it touchdown in my neighbors back yard, about 200 feet from me. It wasn't down long, took out a few trees in my neighbors and my yards and dissipated, but it was one of the most frightening things I have ever witnessed. One was enough, I never want to see another. I run outside when the tornado siren sounds. Things we do in Kansas. Texas here. We don't call them tornado sirens we call them "go outside and look at the sky" sirens because that's what the whole neighborhood does.  That's like car crashes on the east coast,  the anticipation of hearing tires screech. And then the oddly satisfying sounds of metal on metal crash, it brings out neighbors from up and down the block.   *"Where are my shoes? Where are my shoes? Where are my shoes?  Fuck it I'm goin' out barefoot."* There was a tornado coming right for me (well, 15 miles out) and I put a lawn chair out in my yard and waited.

It weakened, stupid tornado.

-- upstate NY

(We only get EF0-EF2 here anyway. I think there have been less than a handful of EF3 or EF4s, ever)

Edit: [pic](https://i.imgur.com/loT9FHq.jpg) during my wait and bonus radar [base velocity](https://i.imgur.com/ZDmg7yO.png) showing the stupid tornado disintegrating in front of me. We like to throw parties as the hurricane come up the coast, nothing like beer pong in 60mph wind. I moved to San Diego 6 months ago from Illinois and people think we're nuts when I tell them that we do this. Unless I know for sure that tornado is going to fuck us, I'm sipping my beer and watching it from the porch.  [Hey, I just took a picture of that same cloud on the way home from work, from the other side though and like 10mi away](http://i.imgur.com/GzRRWMi.jpg) At this angle the cloud looks a lot less menacing.   Life, man. It's all about perspective, man.  That's just like your opinion, man.  Dude... [Well brace yourself because this angle is even MORE menacing!](http://i.imgur.com/MgzH07a.jpg) 

credit to /u/boston_shua Crop out everything below the spotlights and photoshop a few spaceships in there, and you got yourself a nice concept art frame for a movie on mars Something like [this](http://i.imgur.com/TyUTzXn.jpg)? I know post apocalypse is usually depicted as gray and dull, but this sky looks right to me.  It makes you think twice about some innocent looking clouds now.  It's comments like this that make me really love the cloud to butt chrome extension... How do you know if someone has the cloud to butt extension? They'll tell you.  It's like a shitty inside joke they desperately want everyone in on. That explains it perfectly.   whats the butt to butt chrome extension? [))&lt;&gt;((](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XB_9UJex4hE) [This one is from my apt in Cambridge](http://i.imgur.com/4JEmRwo.jpg) We can now triangulate OP's position.  Spoiler: it's Fenway Park. WE DID IT REDDIT! The unstoppable hive mind.  Reddit and Boston really have a special bond. God dammit! That was one time! Even the new Fallout is in Boston! You raise money for Nepal, but no one calls you "Reddit, saver of Nepal." You help some guy replace his girlfriend with another girl of the same name so they can use the same non-refundable plane ticket, but they don't call you "Reddit, random guy on a round the world trip helper." But you drive one man to suicide over false allegations of terrorism...  special

 bond james bond God damnit would y'all leave Boston alone? Yeah but are you really a cool scientist? Haha if I was really cool, I would have gotten "kakkoii", but I was too late to the game.

Edit: &amp; I'm still getting the "kakkoii" transliteration spelling wrong! Thanks /u/sandingtime and /u/xDrayken Kakkoii was taken?  Can't remember which one was taken, it was a few years ago (when I was working at the University of Tokyo), but I ended up with this. Guess there really are a lot of cool scientists in this world....it isn't just Bill Nye and Hideyo Noguchi. [Funny, I took one too. This one's from right behind Fenway. ](http://imgur.com/r5VEtrf)

Doesn't really show how crazy the light was. My view of this same cloud too, from Cambridge! http://imgur.com/0aguDsD [Here's my vantage point from the game](http://imgur.com/gallery/T3OCFrB)

 [Here's the same cloud from my vantage...only it's not a cloud, but actually a turtle made from bananas](http://inspired-living.org/monomeal/wp-content/uploads/2010/09/BananaTurtle.jpg) I clicked even after reading the comment. A turtle made out of bananas? Who the fuck wouldn't click on that? I'm just happy I know how to make banana turtles now Worth it.  10/10 *would*  click again. Well duh, who doesn't want to see a turtle made of bananas?  Cool how the color is different from that perspective This is now my favorite comment on reddit.  /r/redsox had a similar picture posted from the outfield

http://www.reddit.com/r/redsox/comments/3awgo5/gorgeous_sky_at_the_game_tonight/?ref=share&amp;ref_source=link The direct imgur link for lazy people:

http://i.imgur.com/BhoXHto.jpg You da real MVP!  Best one yet. Now we compare the angles and see where they were relative to each other. I don't *think* he's looking across the Charles so I'm going to say he *isn't* North. Comeon you sleuths, let's solve another Boston mystery!  Well you can tell he's looking sorta west. Since the sun sets there. There's more dark on his left than right. In OPs photo the cloud was over fenways home plate making it south of fenway. I'd guess this second photo was taken from the east a bit to the north. I've never been to Boston but based on the map I'd guess Beacon Hill or near Boston Logan Airport. 

E: he said like 10mi away and I didn't notice til too late. Maybe in neighboring Revere or Lynn? The ocean? I'm just taking stabs here.  I'm gonna guess Newton  [deleted] Hey so cool!!  [I took this one from Boston Logan Airport !!  Bonus:  skyline of Boston](http://imgur.com/lSR07Jq) Keep them coming, at this rate we'll be able to make a panoramic photo of it. Here's one I took from the same angle but about four miles away, interesting to see how different the colors were: http://i.imgur.com/ZieMAsq.jpg [Crazy! These must've been all over the place! I took this one from my front yard in the SW corner of Virginia!](http://i.imgur.com/5HADPOb.png) Its not of the same cloud or even the same stadium but I took a somewhat similar photo tonight. http://imgur.com/4VgUzvI http://i.imgur.com/SVabEde.jpg

Me too! The sunset was crazy in Boston tonight. I have Mir pictures if anyone wants them. FB friend posted the same could, looks like a CGI monster http://i.imgur.com/mZcgl4V.jpg The lights in the cloud look like a UFO Reflections of the stadium lights on the glass in the lens... Or aliens.. 
Edit.  Lens to lights  It was obviously a [Helicopter from Indepence day](http://i.imgur.com/KByDxBD.jpg) communicating with a UFO - Upon closer examination, I found that there are 60 lights to be exact..

- Not only that, but the Redsox were the home team and they have 6 letters in their team name. 

- They were playing against the Orioles, who are third (3) in their division. 

- Furthermore, the score between the first and sixth (6) inning was 6 - 3 ..

something something **illuminati confirmed**.
 [Well fuck](http://i.imgur.com/CIw9hTp.png) I was trained not to believe in coincidences. We're on to you illuminated scum! Have you heard of the federal reserve?  "Then we're coming back for you and we're gonna lock you up in the Federal Reserve!" - Terry Hoitz THERE ARE *FOUR* LIGHTS! http://i.ytimg.com/vi/0NFITME0zI8/mqdefault.jpg 6-3=3

Half Life 3 confirmed! [deleted] I believe that is text. That *is* the tornado warning. It looks like the entry of the alien ships in ID4. They're pulling out a stops to market that sequel.  This Fallout 4 marketing is extreme! Watch out for the deathclaws They're putting little deathclaw costumes on pugs and cazador costumes on corgies, and let them chase each other around.  God damn I want this now, Bethesda spies, attention!  Being dressed as the Vault Dweller, with five or six corgis dressed as cazadores chasing you, would be the best cosplay e-ver.  "Oh no, I'm just too slow! Ahh, they're gaining on me, help, help!" 

*proceeds to roll around on the ground, getting criticalled by cuteness* Imagine a baseball minigame in FO4. Playing post-apocalyptic baseball in fenway park. So amazeballs. Fenway park has been converted to a city, no post apocalyptic baseball unless they play it somewhere else. Baseball bats seem to be a pretty prominent weapon though, so maybe there will be cool post apocalyptic baseball. This sounds the most likely. If it is in Fallout it will need to have some twisted element to it - gladiatorial baseball maybe?!!   The baseball bat is full of spikes, the ball is actually a squirrel You have to melee fight the guy on the base in order to claim that base, a home run would be epic &gt; the ball is actually a squirrel

So we can instantly count out the Phillies then. Blernsball? The [last](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2007_Boston_bomb_scare) viral marketing campaign in Boston wasn't a big hit.  They should be careful Yeah that campaign really bombed. I don't know, I think people really blew it up too much.  Wow, it really didn't take long to blast through all of the good bomb puns. Oh what a day, WHAT A LOVELY DAY! I live, I die, I live again! WITNESS ME WITNESS ME, BLOOD BAG! WIIIIITTTNEEESSS Ctrl+F LOVELY

I knew someone posted that. Chicago saw some insane weather recently, too. This was taken yesterday: https://pbs.twimg.com/media/CIJe4cEWgAAHWNH.jpg:large 

My apologies on the formatting -- can't remember how to make it prettier and I'm on my phone. Mammatus clouds.  They look a lot less menacing at sunset. I took [this photo](http://imgur.com/ftnPk6j) in Cicero (just outside Chicago) yesterday. Massive Mammatusries.... (   ) Definite cloudporn The world is ending clouds Mammatus Ghandi clouds I think someone needs to look into the effect baseball games can have on weather. I think God hates the Cubs Chicago has known this to be an absolute fact since the days of the ottoman empire. Oh I get it because when they last won the world series, in 1908, the Ottoman Empire still existed So did the Austro-Hungarian Empire! JFK wasn't born yet either  Neither was I. For real, I took this one in RoundRock, Tx at a RR Express game. I thought a cloud rhino was gonna pop out. http://imgur.com/hGbXeaj [This](https://mlblogsramsey.files.wordpress.com/2014/07/beautifulgabp.jpg) happened in Cincinnati last year. Against the Cubs as it were. Why are baseball stadiums such cool backdrops for cloud photos?  Big open bowls in big urban areas frame the sky like nothing else. 

On a somewhat related note, and on a *much* smaller scale, the [Turrell Skyspace at Rice University](https://www.google.com/search?q=turrell+skyspace+rice+university&amp;safe=off&amp;client=safari&amp;hl=en&amp;source=lnms&amp;tbm=isch&amp;sa=X&amp;ei=gDaKVazsEIy0-QGRs7ngCA&amp;ved=0CAkQ_AUoAg&amp;biw=1024&amp;bih=704) is where I find my happy place in the evenings.  They were in baltimore earlier tonight. [Pretty neat](http://i.imgur.com/mhUFLXK.jpg) Went looking for Camden Yards.  This looks like a level from Doom 2. That's actually the Brotherhood of Steel coming for the Commonwealth's technology. boston disaster thread --&gt; ctrl-f fallout What disaster? It seems like nothing actually happened. #SIMBA [From imgur] (http://i.imgur.com/ILMd4jd.jpg) ^*Rememberrrrr* Who you aaaaaare. [What I See Cannot Be Unseen](http://i.imgur.com/dAAgIwD.jpg) Poodle heaven is just clouds. CHO....SIMBA

*this is CNN* Here it is over the library. 

http://imgur.com/nON8i9c Holy shit, it looks like the Sierra Madre casino in New Vegas.  Red Sox, [remember who you are!](http://i.ytimg.com/vi/f1PQIxhr4UY/maxresdefault.jpg) So you and /u/belle_of_the_ball appear to be attending the [same game](http://www.reddit.com/r/pics/comments/3awi2z/storm_over_fenway_as_the_storm_rolled_in_tonight/).  And sitting relatively in the same portion of the stadium.  Small world Damn, that picture makes it look like Armageddon is coming.  War, war never changes... &gt;Wah, wah nevah fookin changes.

FTFY The cloud's reflecting the stadium lights, right?  Pic was taken from behind a window.
E: ok, I get it, no windows. I just need convincing it isn't aliens. Oh it's aliens ... behind a window So the aliens took the picture? [check it out](http://i.imgur.com/gOkmosb.gif) It's more likely an internal reflection, either between lens elements or between the sensor and the lens. There is no window from that low a perspective in right field of Fenway Park. Just caught the sun setting at the right time.

http://i.imgur.com/cg1I78T.jpg It's likely sensor reflection from a filter on the lens. Happens with very bright light sources in the scene.

Either that or it was taken behind glass. +1 Yep this is what's happening.  All these sheeple thinking UV filters will 'save' their lens if they get something on it.  The unfortunate thing is this picture is a prime example of why you take the UV filter off.  Lenses are massively engineered to reduce glare and reflects inside the glass elements for all these amateurs to screw it up by adding a filter to the end of it.  Almost all pro photographers won't touch a UV filter unless they have a very good reason to. It wasn't a window - I was at the game as well and those phantom lights are in all my pictures of the Cloud. (Also no windows in the right-center field stands where this picture was taken.) [Simba...](http://i.imgur.com/PZ2Z6Fv.jpg) Whenever Joe Kelly takes the mound there is always a tornado warning.   Because he blows? We also would have accepted "sucks" or "generally leaves a path of destruction." I know of this all too well unfortunately.  #.#noFilter [Got a similar picture of the cloud passing the city across the bay in Quincy.](http://i.imgur.com/6n1wcdU.jpg) Get the fuck out of there Ben Affleck! You too Matt Damon. I'm still waiting on a Good Will Hunting sequel so you can't die on me now. Ben Affleck?  Robin Williams is a more important character to the movie, he should totally ge RIP [they've already started filming](https://youtu.be/nnESedN4vSI?t=12s) Who you gonna call? Ghostbusters! WELL I GUESS WE'RE GONNA HAVE TO TAKE CONTROOOOL. Down here in western mass it was eerily green for about 15 minutes then turned that same pink and purple. Very pretty but a little unnerving It was fucking orange here in Springfield. And not your normal shitty dingy Springfield orange, either. Eerie. That's just the Orioles bringing their fury with them into Fenway. Fallout 4 marketing [This was a little earlier as it passed over the Wachusett Reservoir](https://www.flickr.com/photos/awrose/sets/72157654986534841) choose the form of the destructor! Bethesda must have meant it when they said they were adding radiation storms to Fallout 4. Am i the only one who thought everything looked really fucking yellow outside around 8 pm? Not sure if caused by the extreme weather or if I just never notice stuff like that. Here's another angle:  http://postimg.org/image/5vvkdbgtz/ These clouds are literally a daily occurrence in here in Tampa Bay, Florida. Someone pissed off Lord Vigo Von Homburg Looks like the clouds in ghostbusters   Even though you said no filter, I have to say hey man nice shot. Quick, get to the Vault! [That cloud looks like a giant baseball mitt to me] (http://imgur.com/gIw49X7) Sorry Mufasa, Simba's not home right now. Call back later. Terrible weather produces some of the most beautiful skies. I read this sci-fi book about the Earth's future and it was so polluted everyone had to wear gas masks to walk outside, but the sunsets were a beautiful red/purple color.  Beautiful Is that supposed to be a wall cloud? Shit looks weak. Wrigley Field had one like this last night. 

Weird ass sky. [The color spectrum on the iPhone is to prove that the white balance hasn't been altered](http://i.imgur.com/45ulymx.png) "Fuck." -Outfielder I'm waiting for Falcor to burst out of it does anyone know what are those light in the cloud? the same in montreal photos.. http://i.imgur.com/lLnPfwj.jpg Think it was a tornado watch, not warning. The first is where conditions are right and the second is when a tornado is imminent. I looked it up this evening because I kind of thought seeing a tornado would be cool. Somebody get me the ghostbusters... Beauty already mesmerizing [can confirm galaxy part](http://i.imgur.com/piqpTSc.jpg) Thats so AWESOME!!  If it was not photoshopped, that flower must have just had an all day orgy. Morning glory baby...No face shots! No face...ok just not in my stamen
 Fotoshap never photoshops anything. "To see a world in a grain of sand and heaven in a wild flower, Hold infinity in the palms of your hand and eternity in an hour."
-William Blake i have a sneaking suspicion that this photo may have been manipulated.  What if that's the original and OP's was photoshopped onto a flower. Shopped. 1/10. Would not big bang. Are you sure? I'd still touch her asteroid

Edit: letter and apostrophe  [I found a Galaxy too!](http://i.imgur.com/PSyR7Li.jpg) More of a nebula "It's in Orion's f-f-flower..."  My god it's full of stars! Reminds me of The Zero Theorem. Well, it was about time I had a new screensaver! [/r/TheDarkTower](http://www.reddit.com/r/TheDarkTower)  Go then, there are other worlds than these. *Dee-da-cheek, dad-da-chum, dee-da-chok!* Thankee sai. Second reference from a non-King related post today! It feels very 19 today. Of course someone beat me to it You'll get it on the next turn of the wheel... or the one after that... or the one... We are well met sai. The Tower has been on everyone's mind today. With that plane 19 and such. Maybe its gaining popularity. I hope its so, and I say thankee You beat me to it bastard! In this universe there might grow roses which sing. To see a World in a Grain of Sand  
And a Heaven in a Wild Flower  
Hold Infinity in the palm of your hand  
And Eternity in an hour  
 
William Blake Sir you forgot the rest of that long and random poem (Auguries of Innocence): http://www.bartleby.com/41/356.html Huh. When you think about it, that poem is just all about Totino's pizza rolls. *A horse misused upon the road	
Calls to heaven for human blood.*

can confirm Totino's pizza rolls. https://youtu.be/2lPX5b9m7ro I was expecting this comment. Was also the first thing I thought about. Stunning. So apt.  Anyone know what flower that is? I love it. It's a Black Velvet Petunia  Fun fact there's a [buttload of varieties of petunias](http://imgur.com/a/KL9rJ), made by different growers, and you can buy a lot of cool looking flowers when looking for petunias, this one appears to be some sort of variation on the [standard black velvet](http://www.ballcolegrave.co.uk/Retailers/_PetuniaBlackVelvetRetail.aspx), along with a bit of pollen speckled on it This image is actually over exposed but the flower had a bunch of pollen from the gardeners replanting some white flowers near by. The over exposure brought out the purples. The rest of the flower were quite black.  ah cool I was actually wondering if there was any exposure on it but I didn't want to make too make assumptions, either way it's an awesome photo and petunias are cool as hell I've actually learnt so much about them just from this picture. Petunias are really cool! Thanks for your info man!  Wow nice. It's lame that all i ever see for sale are those super generic ones! It's neat that as the blossoms expire (this one looks like it's past it's prime and possibly dirty) they can obtain a new level of beauty with a smidge of imagination. Nice find OP.  Welp, time to start a giant corporation to keep it safe. I know just the gal What reference is this of? The Dark Tower series. Thankee-sai /u/NecDW4, you have answered true... The Dark Tower series by Stephen King. Fantastic stuff, read it! thx! Just don't be turned off by the first book. It's a slog but it's literally one of the first things King ever wrote. It gets much better. And it's a great re read when you've finished the series. Reminds me of Orion's belt from Men in Black A galaxy is millions of stars and planets, how can it be in a flower? A Galaxy Is Millions Of Stars And Planets, How Can It Be In A Flower?

-The wrong Smith  agent jayy lmao Honestly expected a Samsung  This my favourite comment so far. Well done. hahaha /r/hailnature Unexpectedly awesome sub  ...infinity in the palm of your hand and eternity in an hour. We could very well be living inside a flower too, right now. Think about it Anything's possible!  Asteroids=pollen Yep! It was taken a few weeks back in Butchart Gardens and they has so many flowering plants and pollen a plenty!  Panspermia goes with this exact concept That would make me very happy. Or a turtle's dream in space! Settle down Jaden. http://imgur.com/DYbiVGt Pretty sure we've living in someone's day after drinking's shits.  The earth is a piece of corn.

It would explain why /r/funny exists. Them some big ass rain drops Since I was about twelve I've had us all living inside of a flower, a cave, a dream,a novel and on and on.  Thanks for sharing. That's beautiful. What kind of flower is that? It's a Black Velvet Petunia. :) And thank you! 
 what is the origin country of those flowers? [Black Petunia info](http://www.ballcolegrave.co.uk/Growers/_PetuniaBlackVelvet.aspx)
Seems to be from England, however it's been bred with the black as it's not normally found in Petunias.   Beautiful things we have here on earth.  This wasn't found in an empty lot near a bookstore called 'The Manhattan Restaurant of the Mind' wast it? Actually this was taken at Butchart Gardens on Vancouver Island. They had them there this spring.  That's awesome! I'm in Victoria....it's a such a small internet :) Great shot by the way! I love Victoria!! Amazing place, so much character we stayed on Salt Spring Island for a couple of nights. Fell in love with the islands. You lucky thing!  Mmm, pan seared Faulkner.  Protect it, thankee sai Bravo for paying close attention to the small details in our world. Wonderful discovery. Thank you so much, life is in the tiny details
 Time to call the Men in Black Are those stars or or or ACHOO. What did it smell like? It didn't really smell like anything to be honest. I was hoping for some lovely perfume but I think it's bred for the texture. 
 The only bread for the texture is pita a pitatunia It's what the pitatunia was bread for.  For scent you want some citronella, lantana or cleome! :) To see a World in a Grain of Sand  
And a Heaven in a Wild Flower,  
Hold Infinity in the palm of your hand  
And Eternity in an hour.  
--William Blake [deleted] I was thinking nebula but isn't that IN a Galaxy? I may be totally wrong though To see a world in a grain of sand

And the heavens in a wildflower

To spend a lifetime in a minute 

And an eternity in an hour Is that a black hole in the middle? Coz it makes all the sense in the world right now. That's what you get for watching too much sky. I'll take that! 
 Beautiful pic Thanks so much! Nature is amazing.  HORTON! Are you there!!??!?!???? OP is Horton Who? Did you hear it?  Beautiful shot! Thank you so much :)  Next Men in Black documentary  What's the name of this flower?  /r/naturalparallelism Great link!  Thanks! Thanks I actually made that sub on an old account that I deleted, so it's modless forever now  You know you can apply to be made a mod of a modless subreddit, yeah? I do now  Good :) Hope you get it back and that it continues to grow into a great sub  [Apparently I had the power to delete this post lol](http://imgur.com/mpah2Ir.jpg) With great power comes great responsibility. How would you feel if someone took a closeup of your genitals? We find galaxies that look beautiful like flowers, and we find flowers that look beautiful like galaxies. 

It's almost like we sentient lifeforms can find beauty in almost anything. In fact, I'm not sure beauty would exist without us to call it out as such. 

Then, when we find beauty in the essence of ourselves (the beauty seeers) we realize what a truly precious piece of this universe we are. We are the part of the universe that cares. This reminds me of the rose in the dark tower series. [I painted this.]( http://imgur.com/I3LwSq1) That's pretty amazing. Thanks so much :) 
 If you get really high and stare at the middle of the flower, it looks like a portal into space. Very nice! Anyone else see the blue eyes staring out from the center? You mean a black hole... Now we just need to see what it looks like in ultraviolet... Needs more TARDIS! Very nice photo !  Thank you :)  I've got two trays of these in my yard right now. After working with petunias so much I really started to dislike them, but I couldn't help but bring this variety home.  They are definitely striking. The picture really does it no justice when it comes to the texture. I hope they do well for you!  The photos rarely do justice. I stare at plants all day for a living, some are just stunning.  Stared at this for a good 10 seconds before I realised I wasn't meant to be looking for chocolate. that's a beautiful ass petunia  beautiful ASS petunia

or

beautiful ass PETUNIA

? Hey OP I found your moms asshole Lucky you! Say hi to her for me, I haven't seen her in ages :D  Sick! Huh? No goatse? You surprise me, reddit!  WHAT IF THAT'S WHERE WE ARE?????? Here come the __ __ __! now we just need infinity in the palm of our hand and an eternity in an hour and the spell will be complete! What will happen after? We are a flower, we're all flowers. YAY! This flower is a fucking TRIP dude! Very cool photo, made my day! Cheers man! Hope the rest of your day is outstanding :D To see the world in a grain of sand and heaven in a wild flower, hold infinity in the palm of your hand and eternity in an hour. 

-William Blake  Quick stick your penis in it!!!  dark tower movie irl confirmed! Fucking amazing dude awesome Thank you Thank you :)  its actually flower jizz Is that a spider lurking in the middle...? /r/WoahDude [deleted] Thanks man, I'm glad you dig it :) [my flickr if you want any others](https://www.flickr.com/photos/nomiananda/) Have an awesome day!  Better yet, you found a flower in a galaxy!  Bullshit. I saw a guy on The Strip paint that.  The white blobs look like crack cocaine. put that shit on a shirt /r/woahdude on google, i don't see any black velvet petunias like this with the colors and the dots. I really like this one. what's different about it/how did it get this way? Try Black Cat Petunias. 
 I have a friend who's an artist and has sometimes taken a view which I don't agree with very well. He'll hold up a flower and say "look how beautiful it is," and I'll agree. Then he says "I as an artist can see how beautiful this is but you as a scientist take this all apart and it becomes a dull thing," and I think that he's kind of nutty. First of all, the beauty that he sees is available to other people and to me too, I believe. Although I may not be quite as refined aesthetically as he is ... I can appreciate the beauty of a flower. At the same time, I see much more about the flower than he sees. I could imagine the cells in there, the complicated actions inside, which also have a beauty. I mean it's not just beauty at this dimension, at one centimeter; there's also beauty at smaller dimensions, the inner structure, also the processes. The fact that the colors in the flower evolved in order to attract insects to pollinate it is interesting; it means that insects can see the color. It adds a question: does this aesthetic sense also exist in the lower forms? Why is it aesthetic? All kinds of interesting questions which the science knowledge only adds to the excitement, the mystery and the awe of a flower. It only adds. I don't understand how it subtracts. That, was amazing. Such an intricate blend of art and science but hey there is definitely art in the science. An interesting question to pose, you've definitely got me thinking! amazing *Supernova Does anyone happen to know what kind of flower this is? That's a huge fun right? It's on Orion's belt Morning glory/potato vine? Is it bad that i expected a Galaxy phone Nigga you found a nebula. The Galaxy is on Orion's Belt. Orions  bell! Sounds like a song or band name. I found a galaxy in a flower Hmmm must be a glitch in the code. Holy shit.. it's The Dark Tower [Wallpaper Version(1920 x 1080)](http://i.imgur.com/fsxRQTG.jpg) What plant is this? Black whole! The galaxy is looking at me. dude.....what if we're all in a flower right now man. Its motherfucking Horton in this bitch, internet. No no no. 

The galaxy is in Orion's belt.  So THAT'S where I put it!?! I just super duper think there's a spider in there... the reality of life :) ... It's a dusty petunia. Bizarre how enchanting it is.  What beauty lies within? Plot twist, that really is a galaxy like in Men in Black! This makes me too self aware.  Please tell me, I want to look I say we call the men in black just to make sure it isn't a real Galaxy  The galaxy is on orion's belt! Its a wormhole! You know what's cool? There's a dreamtime story that the indigenous Australians used to explain flowers (not sure where I read it, so not sure which tribe or language group sorry) apparently they were sent down by the ancestors from outer space, that's why aussie native flowers are so weird and unique and beautiful. Kind of relevant I thought. its a black hole. with the right technology we can go through it. Wow! Stephen King's The Dark Tower confirmed based on a real story. Cured my acne. Have you called the EPA?  Or are you outside of the US? The Texas Rangers are on it. An EPA criminal investigator has also visited the site.

http://www.oaoa.com/inthepipeline/article_8b9eb77a-074c-11e5-8029-b33f5c520722.html &gt; Texas Rangers

The whole team?! Nah, just Walker. that's all you need. WHEN THE EYES OF A RANGER ARE UPON YOU ANY WRONG YOU DO HE'S GONNA SEE WHEN YOU'RE IN TEXAS LOOK BEHIND YOUUUUU 'CAUSE THAT'S WHERE THE RANGER'S GONNA BE Should I pull it? [Hmmm....](http://imgur.com/xDv7Fs4.jpg) http://40.media.tumblr.com/tumblr_m6gw7wPVR81r8xkvoo1_500.jpg Oh, they're fucked. Walker Texas Ranger was my idol as a kid, i would fuckin perform routines in front of my family in shit like i was in a cult. damn that shit is fucked. what is life Sure it wasnt the New York rangers? I heard their whole schedule just cleared up for summer Daaaaaaaamn [Time's up, Let's do this!](http://whowhatwhy.org/wp-content/uploads/2011/10/4617776.png) Is that George Bush? Leeroy Jenkins, you were close tho. The people OP needs to contact in Texas are the TCEQ (Texas Commission on Environmental Quality) and the Railroad Commission of Texas (RRC). The TCEQ is the EPA of Texas and the RRC has over site on the Oil and Gas industry in Texas. 

[A TCEQ PDF with general info on who is responsible for what](https://www.tceq.texas.gov/assets/public/assistance/sblga/oil-gas/statewide_oilgas_prog_info.pdf)

[This is where you file a complaint to TCEQ](https://www.tceq.texas.gov/complaints/index.html)

[Here is contact info for RRC for spills](http://www.rrc.state.tx.us/pipeline-safety/enforcement/accidentincident-reporting/)

**EDIT:** [A full list of agencies that can be contacted for an oil spills in Texas](https://tpwd.texas.gov/landwater/water/environconcerns/damage_assessment/response.phtml) OP fucked up by not naming the people responsible. Bugington Energy, based in Imperial, about 2.5 miles north of the dump site. Let them try to fight the bad PR and lack of sales that being publicly responsible should have caused.

tl,dr Bugington Energy, based in Imperial, about 2.5 miles north of the dump site did this. Lack of sales? You are talking about oil here. Last time I checked, BP was still in business. Bugington Energy? That name just sounds guilty. Oil Field Buggery. Absolute motherfuckers, it's just unbelievable in this day and age in what is meant to be a civilised, developed nation. Hope they get shut down.  &gt;  the RRC has over site on the Oil and Gas industry in Texas.

http://vignette3.wikia.nocookie.net/kingofthehill/images/7/78/Image.jpg

&gt;Hank: It'll be a disaster if we get caught, Peggy. We're on a train. That means we are at this very moment under the jurisdiction of the Texas Railroad Commission. 
&gt; 
&gt; Peggy: Yes, so? 
&gt; 
&gt; Hank: The railroad commission also regulates propane. If what we did in that bathroom becomes public, Strickland Propane could receive sanctions, maybe even the propane death penalty! God I learned a lot from this show The railroad commission actually doesn't have anything to do with railroads anymore. Anytime I watch Jeopardy, and there is a Texas history question, I can thank King of the Hill for my being able to answer the question. 

Oh General Santa Annnnnnnnnnnnna! &gt; santy annie You know what else is the EPA of Texas?

The EPA. Most states have their own department of environmental quality. They work with the EPA but usually something like this will be investigated by the state and the evidence turned over to the EPA who might do a little more investigating to see if they want to prosecute it federally as well. Normally the EPA will file charges as well as the state. I think its just courtesy to let the local agency lead the investigation. Unless there is a major issue then the EPA will take over and share their info with the local agency. If you do something like this you will probably be facing state and federal charges.  Thank you. It's usually far more efficient to work through local agencies than those at the federal level. Information on filing a complaint with the Texas Commission on Environmental Quality can be found [here](http://www.tceq.texas.gov/complaints).  Except certain stage agencies designed to regulate pollution have become rubber-stamp agencies instead. Well if it's going to become an EPA Superfund site and it looks like it's going to become an EPA Superfund site, then they should also call the EPA.  Wrote this for a deleted comment to expand on this comment.

&gt; You local gas station pumps don't give you the amount of gas that you paid for, you realize this and report it to the county. They send out the county weight and measurements department and test it. They find out what you say is true. They forward it to the US weight and measurements and now that gas station has to answer to the US government and the county government as well.. EPA! EEEEEEEEEPPPPPAAAAAAAA! Thousands of eyes! TRAPPED FOREVEEEEERRR You'd think that but they'd say it's the Federal Government invading Texas like they ALWAYS do If they don't vote on secession soon I wonder if we can just do it for them. They're so big on border fences, I'd love to pitch in for their northern one. I mean, if it keeps Oklahoma out we'd be okay with it.  for a state that didn't want to be part of America they sure do try to tell everyone how to be American.  As a Texan, please don't. I don't want to live in a country run by Texans. How was 2000-2008? Are you talking about that [north-eastern](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/George_W._Bush) family that fooled everyone into thinking they were southern? Yeah for some reasons politicians like to fake the accent of the region they are in. GWB picked a mix of Forrest Gump and Clint Eastwood. Families is where our nation finds hope, where our wings take dream. He wasn't born here. Give us some credit! Thank you! Was going to post the same thing. He's not even a fucking Texan. He kind of is a fucking Texan. He was raised in Midland and Houston. And I'd argue that where he was raised is more important than his birthplace.

I was born in Ohio, but raised in upstate NY from a young age. Ohio had about zero influence on me. NY is my home. HE DOESN'T EVEN GO HERE! Don't do that! They'll never get federal assistance for those floods! When I lived there I always joked those SECEDE bumper stickers should include "...until next year's wildfires." Not to mention losing all the military/federal institutions (like NASA) that would have to pull out and destroy their economy as well. Is NASA's pull out game that strong though? Zero pregnancies so far. That's a solid record. I don't know in Texas but it is in Florida. When they shut down the shuttle program that hurt is hard. Lot of engineers working in restraunts Actually Texas is one of the few states that would be financially solvent if they were suddenly kicked out of the Union. They send in more federal tax money than they receive in aid.

Whether they could suddenly whip up their own infrastructure for handling that money in a few days is the real question. While they might send in more than they take, surely it's a lot more complex than that to determine whether they could last. Think about all the businesses and corporations that would pull out. Think about the sudden tariffs and taxes they'd have to pay to trade with other countries. There's a lot more than just that, too. While I can't pretend to know for sure if it'd work out for them, if I were to place a bet I'd be fairly confident that they wouldn't be so financially solvent anymore. Well, the ratio is simple fact, but the conditions that allow for it are delicate enough I would have my doubts about solvency. Even ignoring the fact that dollars are federally backed, those dollars aren't generated in a vacuum. The overall point is still reasonable though, Texas would be better off than most states trying to make it on their own. The question is how much of that money they would actually keep without being part of the US. They really aren't, actually.

The EPA is like 2 decades behind on its backlog of site visits, even if they were the EPA of Texas.

The EPA is reliant on states' depts of environmental quality to do almost every bit of the heavy lifting. Also. Buy life insurance. Then Abbot will just make it legal for them to dump there and illegal to report things like this in the future. Gonna have to report it somewhere else and hope the right people show up. FYI, the Federal Government supersedes local governments. At least oil companies will have to spend few millions in ~~bribes~~ lobbying to get that law made. I'm guessing the EPA wouldn't do anything...OP is in Texas so that's outside of the US (at least according to most Texans I know) Not true work in industry it's so remote they can't police everything.  These people are facing serious jail time.   Jail time seems extremely likely. I serviced broken wells in texas and was called out for a saltwater well spill and even that was a huge deal. Texas really doesn't like the environment to be messed with like this.  "Don't mess with texas" was originally an anti-littering slogan, after all. No kidding? [Huh](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Don't_Mess_with_Texas), He wasn't kidding. That's neat.  So... [the "mess" is the "mess", the "mess" is the noun... but you are making the verbs of it?](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lpo3s1c384s&amp;t=4m10s) &gt; Peace out television!

ha, I like.  https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hT47Ysl-2Ew It still is. You still find the signs along the highways.  Is it not still known to mean don't litter? There's a bit of a generational divide. The people who grew up with the anti-littering campaign (like myself) still think of it more as a public service announcement. For those outside of Texas and the younger crowd, it seems to have more of a "don't fuck with us" connotation. There's even a book and a [Wiki](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Don%27t_Mess_with_Texas) about it. [deleted] I can't even imagine how much trouble they're in.  We had a heating oil tank decommissioning company around here who was found to have been pumping waste oil into the sewers for close to a decade.   Now facing major jail time.  To pump this shit directly into an environmentally sensitive area... Damn.  ...but how is your Bird Law? Probably not governed by reason as is the case in most areas. And I'll take that advise under cooperation, alright? Now, let's say you and I go toe-to-toe on bird law and see who comes out the victor?  You know, I don't think I'm going to do anything close to that and I can clearly see you know nothing about the law. Seems like you have a tenuous grasp on the English language in general.  Uhh, well........ filibuster.  Not as good as as my maritime law.

*You're a cook, Captain Hook! Judge, won't you throw the book at this pirate!* I'm pretty sure it's crook. But don't discount Hook as a cook.

He can turn a roast out and makes a mean cannoli. They cannot arrest a husband and wife for the same crime. No you partisan fuck. 

These guys are in trouble.  Up until recently we had a similar occurrence happening at my family ranch. It really messed up the creek that ran through our land. The rocks were covered in a horrible dead moss, the fish were either dead, or very weak. But we fought the company, and got the company shutdown and purchased by a much more environmentally friendly company and haven't had problems with oil waste since!
Although the waste stopped flowing, it still took us around 5 years to repair the creek back to its natural and original beauty, but now it is looking crystal clear, and supporting the ecosystem it once held! It's pretty shitty that you had to spend the better part of a decade fighting something that never should've happened in the first place. Life "Fixing other people's fuck-ups since: ever" But you don't understand, the only reason it happened was literally to save _one person_ a headache of five minutes of thought. The only reason shit like that happens is to save money. I was hoping to catch OP in a lie, [but no dice.](http://www.oaoa.com/inthepipeline/article_8b9eb77a-074c-11e5-8029-b33f5c520722.html)

&gt;  In weeks that followed, the groundwater district would find what managers described as an ongoing illegal dumping operation that lasted some two years, likely contaminating the groundwater as water flowed into two fields, about 800 feet apart, at some 3 gallons per minute. 3,153,600 gallons over two years. Oof. If I have a leaky fuel oil tank in one of my buildings, and a few gallons leak into the soil, it's a pretty big deal. This is in NYC though. I'm in Utah and we had a tank rupture with ~200 barrels of oil in January. They're still digging below the tank to find the lost oil. Spills are always treated with the utmost urgency, and the epa was notified the day of. Im actually very surprised because we have very waxy oil, meaning that if there is a spill above ground it'll turn solid below 130 degrees and you can pretty much pick it up like a big cookie. We keep our tanks between 150 and 170 degrees so the oil must've left in a hurry to get that deep.  Albertan here.  I've seen tanks overflow on to the ground.  Standard procedure seems to be to get a bobcat in and scrape it up.  Not sure if that's good enough.  But I've never seen anything more in depth than that really.   How does a wild feline help in an oil spill?


 They roll it around in the oil and it soaks it up like a sponge. Then they illegally dump the cat in south america where everyone just assumes it's a panther. I don't think that's right, but I don't know enough to argue Im an ecologist, specializing in apex predatorial big cats in the Americas. I did my dissertation on oil spills and the population numbers of panthers. How allelic frequencies have changed since the wild cats have been introduced to modern industrial oil. Basically, these cats have built up a resistance to oil spills through repeated use as a sponge. Their populations, taking a hit initially have increased as the lubricant helps them slip through the dense under story foliage of tropical South American rainforests. This improves their ability to hunt and their ability to make love. Both imparting a strong selective pressure over their non lubricated with oil fellow cats.

They naturally migrate north as part of their life cycle, as the rainforests disappear when they hit central America, they lose the black fur that is characteristic of panthers and gain a lighter coating as the camouflage is more important than being lubed up like a porn star to slip between trees, eventually being recognised as a bob cat upon reaching North America where the constant oil spills ensure the cycle is repeated again. A truly interesting study would be one on the Gulf spill as bob cats do not enjoy being submersed in salt water.^^[Citation ^^needed] I think he meant the comedian. Jesus, I was talking about ~200 *gallons*. Fuel oil for heating steam boilers to radiators, #2 if I recall correctly. I had to have an abandoned ~1,000 gallon tank dug up in Yonkers. I was scared shitless of any leakage, so I paid for soil samples, etc. You're lucky as hell... 70% or the tanks we encounter have failed at some point.   And you're definitely right to be scared.   A typical remediation for an easy access residential tank will put you back anywhere from 7,000-40,000 around here, and we are no New York.  Thank jeebus our state provides free pollution liability insurance.  There really should be laws that are modeled after the drug war laws to prevent this kind of thing. If people are thrown in jail their whole lives and have all their property confiscated from them and their relatives, maybe then we could get through to people who pollute and destroy the world. 

Even the article says it; companies simply are fine with paying meaningless fines upon polluting and cheating and lying in order to make exponentially higher profits. That company and all its executives who either knew or should have known should be put in jail for life, you know, to make an example of them.  Thank you for the link. I'm amazed that OP posts this as "a company", and even in the article we have to read halfway down to find: "Officials of both agencies are weighing leveling penalties against the company responsible for the water, **Bugington Energy**, based in Imperial, about 2.5 miles north of the dump site."

FFS, let's at the very least not be afraid to name and fucking shame these bastards! That's fucking terrible First you people don't want them drilling for it, then you get mad when they try to put it back in the ground! As an oil field worker this had me in tears. I am stealing this line, thank you kindly for it Honestly thought why dump it? Is the oil no longer viable/useful?

Edit: thank you for all the replies [deleted] I hope it's olive oil trees, I *love* olive oil Lets you just slide right on in there  I am not knowledgeable enough of the industry to give specifics, but no resource extraction results in *only* what you're trying to get. There's a ton of useless, nasty crud that comes with whatever you're mining or drilling, whether it's oil, coal, or ore. There's going to be "stuff" in the way, mixed in with it, etc.. I don't know the details here but I do work in the oil field. My guess would be it's mostly water and chemicals (ex. frac fluid) with just enough oil to look black. OP, do you know a name of the company?  I work for an oil and gas company and am saddened when I hear or see these kinds of things.
 Per the article it's Bugington Energy, and it was totally an accident, *they swear.* 

Edit: *this* article... http://www.oaoa.com/inthepipeline/article_8b9eb77a-074c-11e5-8029-b33f5c520722.html It doesn't matter if it was an accident, its their shit, they're responsible, and they need to clean up the mess AND~~or~~ go to prison.

edit: a word. Are these companies big enough to pay for this sort of thing or do they just declare bankruptcy, leave it to the taxpayers, and all the individuals involved move on to their next venture? I'm not sure they can cover the costs of something like this.  This is like Superfund level contamination.   And they have to take showers in that field until it's cleaned up.  More like Clean up their mess **and** go to prison &gt; clean up the mess or go to prison.

Why not both? Relevant South Park Scene. "We're Sorry."

www.youtube.com/watch?v=9u0EL_u4nvw Probably will get buried but I spent a while looking at the area on Google Maps. I'm pretty sure it's this area. You'll notice on terrain view that there isn't a lake here and it's the only thing that stands out. It's roughly 5 miles from the river as the article suggests and it's back entrance is accessible through the  "Shearer Lease" as the article also talked about.

http://goo.gl/maps/zPNrJ

The reason I went with this spot instead of the dark black line area further south is that there is dark black terrain spots all over Imperial, TX. I'm not sure what causes them but they are common enough that I don't think the spill is one of them.

For info on how I found the Shearer Lease: http://www.texas-drilling.com/pecos-county/leases/pecos-shearer-unit/020547

Edit: that has to be it. There is a locked fence on one side and what else would be covering the road like that? TX Railroad Commission might care as well as TCEQ (TX commission for Environmental Quality).  In the business.  This isn't normal. Set it on fire. that'll get some attention.  BREAKING NEWS: REDDITOR AT LARGE FOR ARSON, SETS OIL FIELD ABLAZE IN APPARENT ACT OF TERRORISM. IS ENVIRONMENTAL EXTREMISM TO BLAME? -Buzzfeed No, no, that's

&gt; Man starts wildfire that's burned for days. You won't believe what he found just outside of town! -- Fox News The bad outweighs the good in that scenario. I dunno man, fire is *pretty* sweet. Looks like Burkburnett, man. 

You know, that patch between Burk and Wichita... You know, the dead lifeless patch that makes the moon look like a garden?

 I might be the only one in here that knows the place you're taking about. Although I'm a bit more familiar with Electra. ......up from the ground came a bubblin crude. Well, the first thing you know, ol' Jebs a millionaire. Tap for black mana. They are going to ban your ability to take pictures of illegal oil dumping. Just you wait!
 [Report it to the EPA.](http://www2.epa.gov/home/report-spills-and-environmental-violations) [The EPA investigated and determined they had no authority over the spill because it was not near navigable waters.](http://www.oaoa.com/inthepipeline/article_8b9eb77a-074c-11e5-8029-b33f5c520722.html) Throw a match on it and everyone will take notice.  You know the best way to stop stuff like this happening? *deregulation*

^^/s Sounds like you need to toss a flaming rag in there and see what happens. Don't worry. The state of Texas will investigate and crack down hard on the person who took this picture. Don't worry, they'll declare bankruptcy and blow town before cleaning up a damn thing. "Personal Responsibility", right Republicans? Smell that?  That's the smell of capitalism, son. *inhales deeply through the nos-COUGH COUGH COUGH HACK COUGH HACK HACK COUGH COUGH COUGH COUGH GAAAASP*

...smells good. If its within 1000yards of the coast, call the coast guard, if not, then call the EPA.


PLEASE PLEASE PLEASE!!!! Here is the US Coast Guard National Response Center number, We will make arrangements and reports to the EPA if its not our jurisdiction. 1-800-424-8802. This picture makes me cry.

In fact, if you dont want to call or you don't want people to know who you are or that you made the report, just send me a PM, or post a reply with the details of where this is it. Use a phone app, and give me a Latitude and Longitude, I'll handle it from there.

I work with the Coast Guard. And Republicans seem to think getting rid of the EPA and more deregulation are great ideas...

Suggesting that we don't need more regulations to prevent this type of shit is like suggesting we get rid of referees from organized sports and just *trust* the teams to call flags on their own plays and police themselves. There's no way it would ever work. 

But of course, federal agencies are "big guv'ment", and we all know we don't want the guv'ment meddling in our affairs (unless we're personally benefiting from their meddling, obviously).

A federal agency is necessary to ensure these things don't happen. Humans are greedy, and businesses are designed to make a profit, not help people or the environment.

Regulations are necessary. If you don't think things like this picture and the countless other environmental disasters we've had should be allowed to happen, you should think very heavily about which party and presidential candidate you vote in to office. 
Hate everything else about Obama and the Democrats, but they aren't campaigning for something so completely backwards as abolishing the EPA.

And if you're in the second camp of people who don't care because it's not your backyard, you should [look up some Superfund sites](http://www.epa.gov/superfund/sites/), because without regulations this shit could certainly be in your backyard. And would be, if the EPA didn't have a say in the matter. An econ class actually really changed my perspective. I grew up super conservative, sort of the "fuck the federal government, free market 100%, regulations suck, yay monopolies (they deserve it)" sort of mentality. But the class really opened my eyes to the fact that businesses truly have a duty to maximize profits. It was actually a very pro-business course, but it started to get me thinking about how if they were supposed to maximize profits, what was supposed to keep them in check on things like the environment? What about a decent enough standard of living for employees? What really happens to the industry/consumer when a company has a monopoly? As a free market supporter, it would be foolish for me to expect these companies to regulate themselves on these issues. It's against their interests. I'm not saying I'm for really big government, but there's a place for government in there somewhere to create regulations and impose taxes to create a *competitive* market while balancing the needs of the country. After my econ classes I realized that both liberal and conservative economists have good ideas for a stable economy. It's that politicians only do some of what they recommend because unpopular decisions (that will actually keep our economy more stable) are necessary but won't keep them in office. The problem isn't that it won't keep them in office (even though it might not) it's that a politicians job is essentially to pass laws. In order to pass laws in the US there has to be compromise. And compromise is what turns a good, more or less simple, idea into a many hundreds or thousands pages of document that in the end that simple idea might not even be there anymore. 

For a moment, consider Obamacare. What many Americans thought it was supposed to be was socialized healthcare for all Americans. What came out? Well let's just say if you could explain it in a small paragraph I would be impressed. 

It's our systems greatest asset and also it's biggest flaw. It prevents detrimental radical change in response to a specific event but it also prevents the passage of good simple meaningful legislation.  I could see obama care fucking up from a mile away. You can't do half assed socialized medicine What's really fucked up is that there are a few ideas that both left and right leaning economists agree on, yet somehow politicians can't even support those because of popularized "economic" ideologies based entirely on folk tales that have no empirical support whatsoever. After my econ classes I realized that there are no conservative or liberal economists. Only former economist journalists. That's why calling for small government or big government is kind of a impasse anyway. The government is as big as it needs to be. Having opposition to keep each other in check is fine, self destructing the country for ideology is not fine. I don't see why we should trust that the government is as big as it needs to be. I'm sure there are plenty of unnecessary things it is doing or even things that it should be doing that it isn't &gt;The government is as big as it needs to be. 

You're sorely mistaken. Government agencies spend and try to exceed the budget they are given often spending frivolously in order to 1. not receive cuts to said budget and 2. Increase that budget for the next term. &gt; Regulations are necessary.

In this particular case it's a crime according to federal law. It's a crime regardless if there are regulations or not. You know all that is a lot of bullshit, right? The EPA was proposed and created by President Nixon via executive order.

Those durn Republicans aren't anti-EPA. They ARE against the EPA overstepping it's authority. The SCOTUS agrees. The EPA, like most every bureaucratic entity, tries to extend it's authority as much as it can, legally and illegally. 

http://www.dcbureau.org/201203227103/natural-resources-news-service/epa-loses-major-supreme-court-decision-on-wetland-enforcement.html The EPA isn't a very good preventative measure, as seen here.  
And it's not like if the EPA goes away dumping oil becomes legal. They'll police themselves!! right guys!?! I'm noticing a stunning lack of libertarians in this thread. 

Weird.  Don't worry.. the market will take care of it. No need for inspections and regulations or anything amIright?  Welp, better fine them $10,000. No, that would potentially hurt the market and destroy jobs. It's best to just give them a stern finger-wagging this time and then maybe next time, a disappointed head-shake. You forgot the bit about giving the CEOs bonuses. "Here is $1.2 million to help cover the cost of cleanup, Mr. CEO."

Company does nothing resembling cleanup except for token PR stuff, and the government either handles it or just pretends it never happened six months later, once the rest of the state/country forgets. Don't worry folks.  Businesses will regulate themselves!

I mean, you don't need no *nanny state* telling the job creators what they need to do, right?


In a free market, consumers will simply choose not to do business with this oil company! Name and shame
 I went to Lubbock texas and hung out with some nice folks. I noticed they all (wives and husbands) worked in the oil/gas industry. They kept talking about all the fracking ops their on and how its booming. RIP aquifer, humanity has zero foresight.  This is one of the reasons why I went into hydrogeology (and also glacial geology, but irrelevant to the topic here). I want to make it my life's goal to create site assessments for contaminated sites like this to show how badly an organization fucked up by contaminating nature...and to help people develop a proper remediation plan for the site.  Throw a match on it and call the local media. Alright kidda,

I'm from the UK but if you pay for my plane I'll come over and fight em for ya. Those are clearly the Swamps of Sadness.   Well if you let the market regulate itself it won't be illegal anymore. Problem solved. Corporations can do whatever the hell they want, because money.  Money &gt; Environment.  Capitalism!   (not that I agree with that, but it's how it works).  At worse they get a slap on the wrist and it's cleaned up with tax payer dollars. They'll then lay off 20,000 people because the shares went down by 0.1%.  But libertarians keep saying these problems will work themselves out, no need for someone to come in and tell them to stop.  Hey, free oil. That should have been reported by the landowner to the Texas rail road commission and they would have stopped that shit a long time ago I would report this to your Senator, as well as Mayor, anyone in government who will listen.  EPA is important too.

Save these photos, with notes, dates, times, etc.  Will be useful when someone acts on these problems and brings those responsible to justice. Set it on fire and make sure the Federal Bureau of Investigation blames the company and sues them for oil dumping and arson.  Despicable and disgusting. The people behind this should be forced to drink that water. Remember when discussing this issue: OP already said it is being done illegally. It is already violating regulations.  More regulations would certainly not solve nor prevent this. The real question is what *would*. I have a feeling their going to be fined almost at much as getting rid of it legitimately would cost. Almost Is the company CalStar Oil?  ...Did Zack and Screech get Becky out of the pond in time? Thats just fucked up. don't worry OP. The $12,000 fine they'll have to pay will certainly teach them not to do it again. 
 They should have to dig it up and eat it In my hometown, Swartz Creek MI, a company called Berlin and Farro was dumping toxic waste. They bought land directly behind my friends house and just started dumping barrels of in the ground. Miles away from the suburbs and city of Flint
 
http://www.epa.gov/reg5sfun/npl/michigan/MID000605717.html And people still think businesses would or could self regulate. People bitch that the EPA is ruining business, but this is exactly why we need that kind of regulation. You sure it's illegal dumping? They probably lobbied to be able to dump there. I mean...if the state leislature of texas tells a town who banned fracking "fuck you, our new law says the law you people voted on is now invalid and your opinion doesn't count"; I don't put it past he asshat oil lobbyists to be able to dump anywhere. No worries, all they need do is finance the local politicians campaigns and the politicians will either instruct local authorities to look the other way or pass some law that makes this legal. Nothing to worry about. Freedom! If the illegal dumpers are ever actually held accountable, I'm sure they will get a massive fine in the hundreds of dollars and they will never dare to do it again. /s Is this in St Helens U.K, if it is they have been doing it for decades, it really looks like it might be. It is in Texas, according to the imgur title. Must be shitty companies world wide. Can I ask where you got texas from the imgur title, all i get is 
uqOjjgo.jpg I clicked the image. It opened in imgur, I got the imgur title from imgur. Don't worry guys, the free market is TOTALLY going to fix this.
Actually this happened because of TOO MUCH regulation
Shout out to the geniuses at /r/libertarian  This is near worthless without the name of the company and the information that could actually help make a change and fix it. Name them. west texas? It is. Just south of Pecos. A gas station two houses down from me has been spilling diesel and gas (~2k gallons) into the environment and destroying our home's property values and the environment. 
I hope something is being done in this situation. It's so terrible for the environment and everyone involved. 

Edit: fixed 20k gallons to 2k, it wasn't THAT big Looks like The Swamps of Sadness. What are we doing to the world... Name the company, OP. There's no use in posting this otherwise. Big business will police themselves though...  The people responsible for this should be enslaved for life and forced to work to clean this up by hand for 16 hours a day. Give them just enough food and water to live. That one lone comment on imgur. "Sucks." Really? Lol As a native West Texan, I am really curious as to where this is. It seems way too familiar.. What the FUCK is wrong with people?? Fuck this company and everyone involved in this shit  To me the most awesome part of this is thinking about the guys that were putting up new chalk boards 100 years ago.  One says to the other, "Hey what about these old chalk boards?  Shouldn't we take them down? Or at least erase them?"  "Nah screw that.  No one will see them anyway.  Just put up the new ones over these." -Should we take down the old chalkboards?

-Hell no, do you know how much extra work that will be. -At least erase everything on the old chalkboards?

-Hell no, do you know how much extra work that will be? Ah, The American spirit  Work smarter not harder To me the most amazing thing is how those "new" chalkboards lasted 85 years Chalkboards of that age were literally a piece of slate. How long do you expect a slab of stone to last?  Couple of months?  At least 5 weeks. Minimum.  Stones last one hundreds of years. Was the stone made in China? Because that would influence my answer.  Was the stone purchased from Ikea? Because that would influence my answer.  Still suffering from 20th century syndrome? *98 years. maybe the school district didn't see it as "necessary" Hey, it worked quite well for 98 years. American work ethic FTW. I thought the stereotype is that we work too much? In most other first world countries they take long vacations from their jobs, right? See the thing about American stereotypes is that you can't win, they'll probably just say something like "we work too hard at doing bad things".  We work 60 hours a week; however, 59:59 of that is finding ways to avoid doing actual work. If you cut every corner, you'll have more time for play,

It's the [American Way](https://youtu.be/WKGRE7DlB8I?t=42)
 Might I add: No fat chicks! so your mom can't play? BANNED -Should we take down the old chalkboards?
-Hell no, it's 1917. Overtime hasn't even been invented yet you fool. He just invented it.  You know, it really does look like that would have been a lot of extra work to take the old ones down. Looking at the [10th pic](http://i.imgur.com/qMHj37z.jpg) where some of the old board is broken away, it looks something like thin 1/4" shale stuck directly to the plaster (concrete? probably plaster, right?) wall with a butt load of adhesive. It probably would have taken days to chip it all off with a chisel. 

I wonder if they are going to preserve it and if so, how? It looks like it could be difficult and costly to remove professionally.  I'm sure some museum or somesuch would be willing to donate the money to have it professionally removed. IIRC the board's surface is painted directly onto the wall.  Note how the black overlaps the seam and looks painted.

They'll have to get the school to agree to let them replace the entire wall. They could cover that wall with floor-to-ceiling plexiglass and rotate the classroom to face another wall. That wall could still support temporary fixtures as they see fit. Don't ever work for a school district. They will grind your beautiful, problem-solving soul to dust... Most museums are very small and have highly limited funds.  The museum that would want to preserve this would likely be small, a local museum or historical society.  Odds are good they won't have the money to do it. At the very least I would expect that the local community would host a fundraiser for the museum to have it removed on their behalf.

Or at least a very nice photoshoot. See. Sometimes it pays to be a little bit lazy. Although it might take 100 years for the payoff. The lazy are a patient breed always willing to play the long con.  it appears the old boards are actually part  of the wall.  Hanging new ones over them looks to be the only choice they had.   ^ The reason they didn't remove them is because there's absolutely no reason to. They wouldn't pull out a part of the wall just to put a new part in that isn't even going to be seen.  I would say it was the only *reasonable* choice at that time.

They could have removed them then replaced that section with more plaster and lath, but the cost and time involved would be tenfold. I bet there's another layer of chalkboards under the one from 100 years ago with more artwork.  Cave paintings... ...from 1817. We need to go deeper. "Take the old ones down?  What, and do MORE work?  Fuck that.  Put up the boards and lets goooooooooooooooo!"

Bless these lazy men. I work construction, I've said this exact sentence. twice today before lunch. You never leave things or hide things when doing renovations? I'm always sure to toss a few beer caps behind the drywall or something at a minimum, sometimes a bit more creative than that. Something interesting to be found some day perhaps.  I let my kids draw all over the subfloors of my first house before I put down wood floors.  I like to think someone, many years from now, will smile looking at my kids drawings of flowers and ponies.  Or just say *"wtf was wrong with these people"* "Ancient inscriptions discovered; believed to be created by the pre-historic 'homo sapien' creatures who once roamed this planet." mostly irrelevant, but it freaks me out a little realizing that this sentence
&gt; I let my kids draw all over the subfloors of my first house before I put down wood floors.

could be read in either the past or the present tense.  Yeah, I'm thinking this wasn't an accident. the fact that they weren't even erased though... Makes me think they preserved this intentionally As a lazy man, let me tell you, erasing them would take more work.  Lazy man here. I almost said the exact same thing but typing it out would have taken more effort than I'm willing to exert.  this. ^ This is exactly what happened.  

This was on the evening news a few nights ago.  

The School Janitor at that time had organized having all of that saved under the new walls.  

Which leads to the NEXT piece of the story.  

The entire school was being renovated. These were under the walls, not just the chalk boards.(Though the chalk boards may have been glued/nailed directly to some of the old ones.) Nah, you would see some signatures and dicks in that case. &gt; says to the other, "Hey what about these old chalk boards?  Shouldn't we take them down? Or at least erase them?"  "Nah screw that.  No one will see them anyway.  Just put up the new ones 

There was a note on it from the janitor, actually. The video shows it.

 &gt; When no one's here I shove your pencils up my ass.

...Written in perfect cursive... Lesson for today: procrastination creates history! I'm thinking it was intentional. They knew the boards were going to be covered, and they left these images on them as a time capsule of sorts. While I was reading, I was imagining those guys did this with intent: "Let's hang the boards over these without any changes... someday, someone will find them and be amazed!" Can someone explain the "multiplication wheel?" Looks like it isnt any type of memorization method, but rather the teacher would likely point to a number on the wheel, and call on a student to multiply that number by whatever number in the middle they were working on. There's also a lot of chalk dots that indicate a pointing stick w/ chalk was used for this purpose. I put an embarrassing amount of time into trying to decipher the code, figure out how they used to teach it.

Turns out there was no code. B-E-S-U-R-E-T-O-D-R-I-N-K-Y-O-U-R-O-V-A-L-T-I-N-E http://i.imgur.com/eTy5uKQ.gif A crummy commercial? Son of a bitch! Poor Ralphie. J-E-T-F-U-E-L-C-A-N-T-M-E-L-T-S-T-E-E-L-B-E-A-M-S D-A-N-K The answer is the one with all the dots next to it.

Learned that from The Wire. ["B5, it got all the dinks"](https://youtu.be/ca1_-6VdR8o)  Good work, Lou Bake em away, toys. This link has a hypothesized explanation. Basically just seems that they would point at a number on the outside, and multiply by whatever number the teacher asked for from the middle.

http://www.quora.com/How-does-the-multiplication-wheel-that-was-discovered-on-old-chalkboards-at-Emerson-High-School-in-Oklahoma-work

This is how modern ones work, but with only one factor in the middle, and an extra circle of spaces around the edge. This one was probably done like this to save space, and test for factors up to 8. But why are there repeating numbers on the outside, like 7? To keep the kids from memorizing the answers based on location. I could be completely wrong, I'm just going off the possible explanation from the link. On another thread it was hypothesized that the wheel was used more as a game. Students would start and on point of the wheel, multiply that number by the factors in the middle, and work their way around. Numbers repeated so students wouldn't be able to memorize any particular order and so they would practice a particular factor more than once.

The next level would be grouping the numbers on the outside in sets of 2 or three and then multiplying those by the factors in the middle. Now you've gone from 11 digit to 21 and 31. I asked my grandmother, they taught the same method in Mexico but with a square.

So basically the ones in the circle are your possible problems given by the teacher. So you might be asked what is 2 times 4. You then CHOOSE the answer from the outer wheel from memory. The numbers on the outside are in a random assortment, so you can't "cheat."

Its a multiple choice problem from hell, basically.

The teacher then goes back and chooses 2 numbers from the inside of the circle, and it repeats just like that.

 Fogey checking in. The multiplication wheel and addition staircase (the latter of which I haven't seen since I was in grade 1) were games our teachers played with us. Two students stood up, the teacher would write the number to add to or multiply by in the middle, then point to a random number on the circle/staircase. The student who solved the problem first moved to the next desk, and the winning student kept going until someone reached the goal, which in grade 1 was a student winning 5 in a row. That student would earn a point, or a star, or whatever currency was used, and at the end of the week/month they'd be calculated and some kind of prize was usually awarded. 

It was a fun, semi-competitive way to encourage us to get better at math. I remember going home and begging my mother to practice the math staircase with me every day after school.

I have thought about that addition staircase so many times in my life. I never thought I'd see another one. I'd wipe a tear if I wasn't so cynical. I believe it's a busywork assignment. For each number on the outside, you have to do all the multiples in the middle. There are some repeats to reinforce it for you.  So they did see in color back then.  [Relevant Calvin &amp; Hobbes](http://4.bp.blogspot.com/-CWM1zDcmWXs/TroD0VsX4WI/AAAAAAAAAVA/Jc5bN5xSTkc/s1600/ch930919.gif) Why does this make so much sense?! You might be a dad. Shoutout to /r/explainlikeimcalvin These pictures are a lie. [Here they are in their true color](http://imgur.com/a/TjqFX) [we must go deeper](http://imgur.com/a/qbgdf) It even sucked the color out of the surrounding walls! Apparently there is a need for /r/decolorizedhistory. I used to think when I was kid that everything was in black and white till some point in the 70's. One day I even asked my mum what it was like when they turned all the colors on. Did you kids never get to see art? Like Picasso, Dali, Da Vinci, ect. I don't get how kids really thought that.  There was so much happening in the US in 1917-1918. Just to name a couple, World War 1 coming to a close and then the influenza outbreak would begin the very next month, Jan 1918, and go on to kill ~100 million people.

Shit is interesting &gt;World War 1 coming to a close

On the global scale, yes.  These chalkboards date from just a few months after the US entered the war, (April '17 vs. December '17) around the time Americans were beginning to arrive in Europe in force.  American involvement was just ramping up.

In fact, given the date of December 3 on some of the boards, they were last written on just a few days before the US expanded their war from Germany to include Austria-Hungary as well. Glad to hear these are being saved. Truly priceless glimpse into every day school life. Such an amazing find &gt; Penmanship like this is clearly a lost art.

Bit of an exaggeration there..  A stretch for sure. 

I went to a regular public school in California- all the teachers could write like this, and most of the students too.

Which is to say- normal cursive. It's not an art any more than print is. "ANCIENT TEXT FOUND ON CENTURY OLD CHALKBOARD" 5 chalkboards you won't believe can't even! Erasers hate him! Find out that ONE WEIRD TRICK to good penmanship! "I literally can't even"

~Albert Einstein
 Albit Einstien could! He's wicked smaht!  Impress your girlfriend with your new PENMANSHIP!  Oddly enough I first saw these on a click bait article on facebook a couple weeks back.   They referred to the chalkboards as spooky or haunted.   I don't know why I still use Facebook  [deleted] I had to learn typesetting in middle school in 1974. 

Put on resume, did not impress.  6th Grade Teacher: "Be very careful not to pull the [job case](http://www.highbidswin.com/sites/default/files/imagecache/product_full/sites/default/files/img_1221.jpg) out all the way. They can fall out and they're **very** heavy!"

Me: \**crash!*\*

o.o

&amp;nbsp;

---
\*The job case landed on my foot, fracturing it and sending 10-year-old me to the hospital. Got a cast and crutches. **Didn't** have to clean up and re-sort the moveable type that shot out *everywhere*. I actually used it quite a bit in school when my hand was tired from print. I think cursive should still be taught imo Why should cursive still be taught? Honest question.

I *really* think we should focus on getting basic print right, then move on to typing. I found cursive to be a massive waste of time. enever I try to write down notes really quickly, even if I start writing in basic print, my hand reverts to cursive and starts connecting letters so I could write faster. Also, typing notes never works for me. It's fast and easy, but I always find that I remember more of what I wrote down in handwritten notes than typed notes. Just like how in 20 minutes I'll forget I even typed up this comment. Cursive is a lost art on left handed people for sure.  Lefties curse while writing.  Hence cursive. Heh- yeah I'm actually left handed. It's certainly a pain, and I smudge everything up for sure. But we get by...mostly because I only type things now. True, I learnt cursive and only cursive at school (in the 70s) and write about like this. Haha it's just cursive! Looks good cause it's all straight and doesn't drag down but honestly, what are they talking about?  Am from Oklahoma: they stopped teaching cursive.   My cursive is better. FUCKIN A, MAN Yeah, seriously, I have a tremor and was barely taught penmanship except for grade 5 and 6 and I can pretty well write like that. Probably a lot better with some practice. Go to /r/PenmanshipPorn if you want to see some lost art. Yeah, in my primary school it was mandatory to write like this. My handwriting has always been scruffy though so no matter what I write, it'll never look good. I can't make out what you said.  Please be more careful with your choice of font. I write on cakes for a living, just got a new hire who doesn't know cursive! They don't teach it anymore, so yes it is a dying art.  My school district still teaches cursive.  I find it sad that one of the boards was translated to print. Do that many people seriously struggle to read script? Shit, I'm 20 and can write cursive. Pretty sure it's still taught in schools. Penmanship? Not so much.

But the drawings? I wish my elementary, high school, or even university teachers could draw like that. I can't either, but still. Ya, that line really irked me. /r/penmanshipporn would like a word with you op.  YAY... a story about Oklahoma that isn't embarrassing! Well... They still had chalkboards in 2015... So its not *not* embarrassing.  i went to school in edmond and they had expensive smartboards and then replaced them with even more expensive smartboards and i'm more ashamed of that than this  I went to high school in Moore. I was in Spanish class one day and the teacher offered extra credit to any student who brought in a ream of paper because they school wasn't providing enough paper to the teachers. Very next period, they were installing one of those smart boards. Such an odd misappropriation of funds. There are tons of government grants to purchase Smart Boards, so it's not like they're not spending their own budget money on paper to get these boards in a large amount of cases. &gt;Edmond

Doesn't surprise me one bit. You should take the more expensive smartboards off to see if there's still pictures on the old smartboards behind them.   A FELLOW EDMONDITE Every class in my highschool had smartboards back in 2003-2004, and i thought it was the smartest thing ever until i joined the military, where we simply hook a computer up to a projector and shine it at a whiteboard. Tada! Instant smartboard for a fraction for the cost, that don't use those awful touch screens. It displays your monitor and therefore anything, and can be written on with dry erase markers.  I feel like most people prefer chalkboards to whiteboards though. I don't get the whole whiteboard thing. I know in college a lot of Profs prefer it. Don't have to worry about chalk not working. Such a pain going up to write something and realizing the marker is dead. And 90% of the profs in this school are too lazy to throw one out after it is dead. They just leave it on the desk so the next prof can try it and get frustrated when it doesn't work. 

[You can also do this. ](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xODkb-i-t2M)

The one nice thing about white boards though is that you can use them with a projector and then write on top of your slides.  How the hell is he doing that? He must be a snare drummer in his free time. [Here's how. ](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RqC7QpNrprg) It's easier to read dark text on a white background.  Also, colors are occasionally useful.  Plus, I've never encountered a chalk eraser that actually erased instead of just smudged.  Whiteboard erasing isn't perfect by any means, but it beats chalkboards.  And the dust probably causes cancer in California.  

But the best setup I've seen is a overhead camera connected to the projector, so the prof can write on a piece of paper and it projects.  He/She can face the class, there's no mess, and there's a hard copy of everything written during class.  Basically a modern version of an old school projector.   Inhaling 30 years of chalk dust probably isn't that good for you.   Cool as hell. Also quite interesting that the existing boards were apparently up for 98 years. That in itself is a hell of a feat. /r/buyitforlife And they had no roof or upper-floor leaks around the blackboards. I love stuff like this. Getting a first hand glimpse into the past is so fucking cool. I can't upvote this enough. Crazy to think there's certainly more time capsules like this behind walls around the world too.  The children who may have written/drawn that are either dead or over 100 years old.  The teachers who wrote/drew some of that likely had direct memories of the civil war.  Their grandparents were around for the revolution. **/r/interestingasfuck** Already x-posted, thanks for the suggestion though! :) Wherever the chalkboards end up, Robert Neu, the superintendent of Oklahoma City Public Schools, said they will definitely be preserved, no matter what it takes. "It may mean we have to delay the start of school in these classrooms, but we've got to preserve these," he said.

In addition to figuring out how to keep the boards in their pristine condition, school employees are also looking forward to the next phase of restoration on other floors, in which they hope to unearth more of the historic boards.

http://www.nbcnews.com/nightly-news/chalkboards-lessons-1917-uncovered-oklahoma-school-n375866 Unbeknownst to all, under these boards were other boards from 1819. Covered in Kiowa Indian drawings and the blood of early settlers. No that's Pawnee, Indiana If you cant beat um Sweetums  Those teachers had mad drawing skills. I wonder if that was a job requirement back in the day. That, and the cursive handwriting. I know r/PenmanshipPorn will love this. Is that subreddit like /r/buttsharpies or something? WTF Placement is always key. Good form. Two references to Holland (or more contemporary "The Netherlands"): one in the pilgrim story and another in the ship with three sails. It is colored red-white-blue; a red sky, white clouds/horizon and a blue sea. These are the colors of the Dutch national flag.

As you will suspect, I'm Dutch. Yep, lots of Dutch and German heritage 'round these parts.


...and some Czechs but we don't like to mention them. Funny, we don't like to mention the Dutch. Back in 1917, December only had 30 days.  That's still true in Oklahoma. We also skip December 2nd and 3rd. Just wait till you see what we do to make up for it in February. I feel like that's wrong, but I don't know enough about Oklahoma to dispute it.. The caption says it is showing November going into december The numbers are off and actually match November 1917 except for the 1st. What is shown is the last four weeks of November 1917 and the first calendar week of December 1917 (which is just December 1st on Saturday).  The current date was November 30, 1917.  You can see they mark days past with a yellow circle, which is faded and barely noticeable on the 26th - 29th.

I imagine that before class on Monday December 3rd, the calendar would have been changed to show all of December. "Wait, they're replacing the chalkboards this weekend, why the hell would I draw the whole December calendar?" FOR THE LOVE OF GOD WHY COULDNT THEY HAVE WAITED TWO YEARS Haha you must have some kind of OCD (I think its hilarious  ) . That's a great point you have there.  You sick bastard. They should spray them with some clear sealer, and hang them up in the corridors as murals. Better have something to protect against vandalism, just in case.  &gt; just in case

Inside a case, it's genius! Is it Delemaer already? My daughter wrote cursive like that for her entire 3rd grade school year.  It's not a "lost art." How do we know your daughter wasn't in 3rd grade in 1917? I'm 24 and I still write cursive. It's always stuck with me, probably because I find it faster to write this way. I just write print except everything is written as one 'line' like cursive. I'm 25 and cursive comes naturally to me when I write fast. I only really remember being taught in third grade but it stuck.  I teach English to ESL students, and those who can't do cursive struggle in IELTS - an important test for entry to university - because they can't write fast enough. It's super hard on students whose first language has a different alphabet. It's hard for Arabic students to write 250 words in 40 minutes at all, let alone while doing so in a second language and trying to put a coherent argument together. Draw a bunch of dick butts on them and cover them over for another 100 years. Looks like they were in the process of changing the calendar from November to December. The lack of the 31st day, the fact that November 1, 1917 was a Thursday and makes the rest of the dates correct. Plus you can see the 4th and 5th look like they are being erased.

Edit: Don't know how I ended up responding to your comment, but whatever To be fair, your comment was as random as dickbutt. "Amazing"

"This penmanship is a lost art"

"If only our handwriting was this magnificent in our day" Looks like the chalkboards were replaced over the Thanksgiving weekend. /r/thewaywewere  Coolest thing i've seen on reddit in a while Do schools use chalkboards anymore, or are things handled on whiteboards or electronically? Like, is it still standard to have a chalkboard in every classroom?  I give my head, my heart, and my life to my God and One nation indivisible with justice for all.

You erase something like that from a previously HIDDEN chalkboard, and the spiritual protection on the school is gone; boom, demons in all the children.

This makes the next episode of Supernatural. \&gt;Smartboards

\&gt;"Upgrade"

Ehhhhhh. It's so funny to see such bright colors. I always think of things from those time periods as being less vibrant!  I have never seen a story linger as long as this one has between reddit and Facebook. It's been at least 3 weeks and this is on my FB feed or reddit front page. It's sort of strange. I see story's swap between the sites often but not so many times in such a short amount of time. It won't go away... Just like those accursed chalk drawings.  The children this was taught to are probably all dead now. Someone teach me the circle multiplication method. WTF is that even? My girlfriend works for a news station in OKC and told me about this about a month ago. I'm so glad I finally got to see the photos. It's amazing to see into the past like that. Anyone know how that multiplication circle works? Anyone notice the star of david in the multiplication wheel?  Wondering why it is up their with a multiplication wheel.

/r/Ilerminaty Joos Perhaps it was in recognition of Hanukkah?  "...and lost penmanship"
What? I'm not THAT old to know cursive wring am I?
oh god.... it's happening. [deleted] Can someone explain the multiplication technique? That penmanship is not lost. I was taught cursive in grade school and was told not to use any other form of writing. I am now a senior and college and still write cursive. I once had a bio professor tell me reading my writing makes him think he is reading Darwin's notebooks. Because his writing looks a lot like mine. not because I was writing about birds beaks but just the style of writing. 

So it's not completely dead. It will be soon though. Everyone my age finds it odd I write in cursive. Especially since it's a habit by now so I write cursive on applications and other documents people would rather you print on. The only people who ever compliment me on my writing is older people. One time I had a professor not much older than me. She just got her masters and started teaching. She told me to stop because she didn't know all the cursive letters (capital letters are the ones most people forget.)   Hell I still have my great great grandmother's 140 year old math book she taught her class here in Oklahoma. Not as interesting as I first thought it would be, all the word problems use livestock and crops.

http://i.imgur.com/GVZCLdA.jpg i was in an abandoned school where the newer chalkboards had fallen off the wall . underneath was a[ science lesson](https://www.flickr.com/photos/shannxn/8663542531/in/album-72157633281710795/) on arthropods  What, no dicks? Its beautiful to see normalcy engraved. :) Chalkboards were installed over Christmas break 1917. The school district I teach at has cursive lessons in the 3rd grade curriculum. From my experience, the kids love writing in cursive too. So, I wouldn't say it's a completely lost art.   I wouldn't go that far. My stepson hated it. He actually started crying because he was supposed to write something in cursive for his homework assignment and I refused to let him cheese out of it by printing. 2 years later he switches back and forth between cursive and print randomly. The multiplication wheel looks so foreign  And, sadly, a 100 years from now some poor soul will accidentally stumble upon a well preserved dickbutt drawing, just sitting there, waiting to be discovered. I can't help but think that circular multiplication table looks just about as retarded as the new maths used for "finding tens." Fucking incredible.
 Inb4 buzzfeed How did they color in the dresses they drew when everything was in black and white back in 1917? This is a dominance thing. Beardies do that to each other while basking and the dominant one is on top. It's not mating because mating is a very aggressive procedure for them.

Source: have kept beardies for 9 years and all sorts of other reptiles. Yep, this is the correct answer. It's surprising how many people are misinformed, especially the ones advising OP to get it a friend. My two girls can't even be allowed to see each other from separate terrariums or it gets violent.

Edit: I meant owners of bearded dragons, not everyone. I was just concerned that owners, who imo should be well-informed about their pets, were telling OP the exact opposite of the truth. He had already participated in the UVB bulb/eyes discussion and took commenters' advice so I wanted to add my two cents on the correct side of the "does it need a real friend" issue before he put a baby beardie in there to be eaten.  Violently sexy. Brown chicken brown cow Wait, you are suprised people don't know the temperment of the bearded lizard?? I wasn't aware it was common knowledge :) What, you didn't know? ;) I was referring to the people who claimed to be owners themselves and were making poor recommendations, or the guy who said they were social animals and needed to be with other beardies. I don't get why people don't do a little research before getting a new pet is all.  Actually, males generally are the more violent ones. Females typically are better for cohabitation, although there are instances where it doesn't always work.

Never do it with males though. Never, ever, ever. And a male with a female? Forget it. He will hump the female to death. True, but from personal experience I know my females can't live together. They have missing toes and tail tips to prove it. :/ Tell me, does it look like the Beardie in OPs picture is... unwell or very thin? Something seems badly off Beardies have fat pads on top of their heads that are a good indicator of health. I see a very thin beardie. My leviathan looked a lot like this when he was dying of reptile tuberculosis :( not saying at all this is what this fella has, but too close to the light and he needs more greens and protein like Dubia roaches or meal worms. They're supposed to have meaty arms and legs with good fat pads at the head, tail and abdomen. He also needs a good bath to hydrate as beardies do not drink standing water. They absorb a it of water through baths and greens. I'm sure his food could use a good sprinkling of calcium dust. There's my two cents. OP, find a good reptile vet and get this dude checked out. And make sure to have them do a stool sample for pin worms. It looks like his eyes are burnt from a lamp with too much UVB. It's called photo-kerato-conjunctivitis. 

Please switch to a different lamp. (Or place the lamp further away)

[A short video about UV effects on reptiles here.](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8-EjjO7Jhps&amp;t=6m20s) In  short, they are more sensitive to it than humans, since they can actually see it and search it out.

Edit: Look at the ~~color~~ (apparently some bearded dragons have orange eyes) and the swelling. [This is what it should look like.](https://1.bp.blogspot.com/-OYVLDui9DhI/T6u6qngLakI/AAAAAAAAACw/LOm-ZV4wqSo/s1600/bearded_dragon_03tfk.jpg)

Edit2: Oke, so this exploded. But I'm happy OP is acting on it. 

Also, I don't claim to be an expert, I just recognised some symptoms of an ailment I recently read about. So if you have any concerns about your pet, a veterinarian would be much more helpful. Hey thanks I'm getting a new lamp first thing in morning I just thought he was like that because he's always had Orange on him since we got him  We all gon be ok. I'm happy I could help. Apparently the orange eyes are not much of a problem, since some bearded dragons have them. Especially if he has it since you got him. But the swelling should be checked out. 

Also some other commenters saw some other stuff that *might* be symptoms of other ailments. So a once-over at the vet (one that knows a lot about reptiles) might be preferable. Good guy OP Thank god you're paying attention OP, whew. OP delivered w00t As long as he's okay, that's what matters. As a pet owner of a particularly difficult pet (Quaker Parrot), I know how it is to suddenly realize "Oh crap, I've been doing this wrong the whole time!" Apparently, your lizard may have to be without UVB for a few days, or not. It's hard to tell. Here's a link I found on a bearded dragon forum [hope it helps and give your little lizard a hug from me.](https://www.beardeddragon.org/forums/viewtopic.php?p=1035178) Just make sure his spikes don't stab you xD Glad to see you're open to new information, and willing to take action. A couple other responses mention vitamin deficiency and bulb placement as things for consideration as well. Hope he gets well. I'm glad or I hope OP gets this info, but it *never fails* that when I see a cute picture of an animal, I come to the comments and find some horrible information that is harmful to the animal.

"Oh, look a puppy acting funny!"

Comment: "That puppy has a neurological disease and will likely be dead any minute." Not too long ago someone posted to /r/legaladvice about somebody breaking into his apartment and leaving post-it notes everywhere and someone else in the comments correctly deduced that he was experiencing carbon monoxide poisoning and damn near died from it. There was an episode of ghost hunters (?) or something where this woman lived above an abandoned coal mine where there was an explosion a century ago. She was experiencing all these things, panic, pressure on her chest, etc and thought it was the ghosts transferring their terror onto her. I think she may have been hearing voices too, but I can't remember. So the ghost team shows up and they all go in the house and holy shit, they experience it too! They all get super excited because now they have proof of ghosts. At some point in time during their investigation, the woman is rushed to the hospital because the ghosts get way too intense. 

The whole time it was carbon monoxide poisoning.  &gt;the ghosts get way too intense

goddamn rowdy ghosts.
 This a woman's house, not a rave, ghosts. http://i.imgur.com/8NROmaa.gifv thank mr skeltal Pls put spook warning &gt;abandoned coal mine where there was an explosion a century ago. 

Yeah, at that point I would already be thinking about CO from slow burning fires somewhere deep in the seam left over from the explosion. Hell, even without the explosion coal mines can get CO buildup, what the hell was she thinking? That was totally what I was thinking! Even before they got to the carbon monoxide poisoning twist, I thought "I'll bet it's gas from the mine". Fumes of some type seeping up from the mine. Luckily in her case, it was just the house. Like, the heating system or whatever was creating the CO and not the mine. So she could get it fixed easily and not have to move and condemn the house.  Ah, so it wasn't the mine? Man, talk about a creepy fucking place to live, though. Was her house near the entrance or, well, somehow on top of the old entrance? Link??? [Original](http://www.reddit.com/r/legaladvice/comments/34l7vo/ma_postit_notes_left_in_apartment/)

[Update](http://www.reddit.com/r/legaladvice/comments/34m92h/update_ma_postit_notes_left_in_apartment/) HOLY. SHIT. Thats... insane.  http://www.reddit.com/r/legaladvice/comments/34l7vo/ma_postit_notes_left_in_apartment/ http://www.reddit.com/r/legaladvice/comments/34l7vo/ma_postit_notes_left_in_apartment/ "Oh, and that adorably cute thing he's doing?  That's his species' way of signaling severe pain and mental distress.  You're literally torturing him." That actually does apply to rabbit pictures quite often "Aww, so cute, he makes thumping noises whenever I come around"

He hates you. *I held him tight and he relaxed!*

Yeah, that's its final flight-or-fight response, to play dead. Its fucking terrified. Also, its a female. "They grow a penis right before they go into a stress-induced coma." That sounds rough.  You're thinking of a cat's.  Cuz they are weird as pets. They have anxiety like no ones business.  I think the main reason I have such an affection for my rabbits is that they understand having a panic disorder. 

TREE BRANCHES MOVED OUTSIDE RAISE THE ALARM WE ARE ALL GOING TO DIE!!!

HUMAN SWITCHED THE LIGHT ON! THIS IS IT GUYS, THE END IS NIGH!!!!!

It's like watching bits of my mind hop around the house, chewing shit they shouldn't chew.  Meanwhile they are chewing electrical wire like it's no ones business. This is the best description of rabbits I have ever read. Humans are dangerous: Avoid. 
Electric cables are yummy. Chew on them.

Bunny logic.  Nahhh. I treat my rabbit  like a rabbit (don't pick her up unless there is a medical issue I need to solve, don't chase her, ...) and she's like a cat. she hangs out with me, plays games, tosses stuff around when she's annoyed, puts her food bowl upside down in her toilet when i'm too late to feed her... she's hilarious and sassy.  Your rabbit still has the same fear responses, you just avoid the things that trigger it because you've read up on rabbits and have common sense. Rabbits are still naturally prey animals. I work at an aquarium fish store and I get this stuff every day.
"Oh I came to buy a friend for our goldfish! He's so cute he's always coming up to the surface and begging for food!"


"Erm...if they do that that means the ammonia in the water is rising to toxic levels, you can't keep it in a bowl, he is literally dying and desperately trying to breathe."


Literally it means it's choking in a soup of it's own shit and piss. That's more likely oxygen depletion because bowls have no surface water agitation. There's the most O2 at the surface so they hang out there. They should buy a bubbler. Ammonia burn is a bit different but also a big problems in fish bowls. Also telling them goldfish can be a foot long and live 100 years if given proper conditions sometimes deters ppl from buying those cruel devices. But sometimes not. (also fish guy) Just because I am also a fish guy and I love knowing this information: The oldest goldfish was 43, the oldest known koi was 226. Yeah I admit I fudged that number a bit, but I really wanted to drive the point home that goldfish should *not* be considered disposable pets to be fed cornflakes and kept in a cloudy bowl for a year or two. That they might outlive YOU. I did know the koi one though. Amazing, huh? I tell people this all the time. I literally show them out eight inch pond Goldies and say 'these are still small." Doesn't ammonia presence in water contribute to the slowing of oxygen movement throughout the body though? I mean, of course the bubbler is necessary, I just thought the presence of high ammonia also contributed to a decreased ability to use the oxygen the fish does manage to get.

I could totally be wrong though. Please let me know if that's the case. :) Skip the bubbler. Get them a nice filter system. All a bubbler does is make cute decorations as the air it provides quickly rises to the top and pops away. The bubbler's bubbles also breaks the surface.

At this point, we've said "bubbler" enough times that I am picturing a new 1960s Batman nemesis. "Aww, he really wants his umbrella back." Ugh, that reminds me of some neighbors who lived down the street that I used to hang out with. They found a kitten in a dumpster, so they named him "Dumpster". Then, when I would try to pet the cat he would claw at me and try to grab onto my arm. The neighbor kids would tell me he's very playful and would continue playing with him in an antagonizing way. Then they said they were thinking about getting the cat declawed.  
I was in 5th grade at the time, and I thought it was outrageous that they were aggravating the cat that much, especially since they decided that removing the cat's primary method of self defense was the best course of action. I remember making a comment about how if they were nicer to the cat, he wouldn't claw at them as much, but they dismissed that claim. Just thinking about that makes me pissed off. It's like posting to /r/DIY. Just do something yourself that you're proud of? Post it to /r/DIY to find out how you did everything wrong that you now can't change!  Or if you try to change it results in an accident that causes horrible disfigurement or death. I mean, if you want to be technical about it, that beardie "snuggle" in the OP is just a dominance display.  "I'll have to put it in a headlock while I sleep.... Otherwise, it could kill me during my nap...  I will never be safe again." &gt;Edit: Look at the **color** and the swelling

Swelling is certainly an issue, the colour is most likely not. I own a Bearded Dragon myself and he has a large amount of orange colour variation similar to this through his beard, the sides of his head and around his eyes, although none directly on the eyes themselves. However it's not uncommon to find Dragons with orange/red variation on their eyes at all.

With regards to the bulbs you can't really have a bulb that puts out "too much UV" as such. However you can have a bulb that is improperly placed based on manufacturer instructions. The more common cause is the use of "compact coil" UVB lighting, which is often poor quality lighting and doesn't discourage the dragon from staring at the light as it's not really that bright.

For what it's worth the Dragon in the picture does not seem to be too bad and it's likely that he can just get a bit too close to the bulb. Proper placement and some observation will probably have it improved and healed in no time at all. Glad someone else with bearded dragon experience could come in and shed some truthful light on this.

I see ALOT of bearded dragons posts showing a beardy in a tank with uvb output coming from a bad bulb, or worse a single coil lamp, and suffering from MBD

Bearded dragons need ALOT of uvb exposure. In fact the community generally agrees on only 2 brands of bulbs (reptisun and arcadia), and only certain types of bulbs from each of those brands (10.0 t5 &amp; t8 [reptisun] and standard arcadia), as acceptable uvb bulbs. In fact out of all the problems with a posters tank that I find, uvb source Is definitely the number 1 issue.

Unless this person has there uvb bulb wayyyyyy to close to the beardy (on his face/right in his eyes maybe 2 inches or less away), I really doubt over exposure to uvb is the reason for his swollen eyes, or variation in color (which is normal as stated above).

More than likely this beardy just has bigger eyes that are fine. Maybe they are more pronounced by the angle of the shot. And as far as color not only is it normal but how can you tell with the saturation filter applied to the photo.

TL;DR : Over exposure of UVB for a bearded dragon is rare and this beardy looks normal from the photo given. Swollen eyes are often a result of improper vitamin supplementation (not enough vitamin A as they were growing) or too much UVC.

Source - worked at a reptile breeding facility for years.

See /u/LLLReptile  Arcadia Bulbs represent lol, I won't use anything else.

&gt;TL;DR :** Over exposure of UVB for a bearded dragon is rare** and this beardy looks normal from the photo given.

Exactly. These guys are from the Australian desert, which isn't exactly a place that provides moderate UV exposure.
 [deleted] No, this is reddit, dragon is nearly ded :(  
Seriously though, his poor lil eyes. Oh now we see the difference
Poor baby :( So he blinded his lizard and then bought it a mannequin/sex toy.., OP is weird.  He isn't gonna fall for it if he can see it clearly. It puts the lotion on the skin or else it gets the hose again. I wouldnt be as concerned about the color as I would about the swelling. My 2.5 year old female citrus has those orange streaks going down the side of her head as well.

http://imgur.com/JxBri2N

EDIT: Also, by looking at the nose and mouth it is showing the early signs of MBD. The lower jaw is extended farther than the upper, and the nostrils shouldn't be jutting out like that. I would swap the UVB and make sure you are dusting the food. Are the yellow beardies called Citrus? I just adopted a 7yr old lady (she came with the fat foot and two toes amputated), and she's this color...I'm new to the lizard culture!

[Imgur](http://i.imgur.com/QL2WrVj.jpg?1) Cant tell from that picture. What I can tell is that you need to switch the substrate out of that enclosure ASAP. Head over to http://www.reddit.com/r/BeardedDragons and read the care sheet the mods created. Thanks! I just put her on substrate that a largely reputable pet store in my area uses for their beardies...I'll change it out for something more suitable, for sure! I hope op sees this The lizard probably wont. http://i.imgur.com/meftV0q.gif I fear this is what I look like when I masturbate. You spelled "hope" wrong.  ayy

edit: whoever upvoted this is a fuck ass Is this irreversible?  To be clear, no, it's not irreversible.  It is reversible, likely very quickly so. Yes.  
"Fortunately, only the superficial layers of the eye are affected; the lens and retina are not damaged (the UVB does not reach the deep structures of the eye) and so it does not cause permanent blindness.[...] Most cases open their eyes again within 2 - 3 days and all symptoms are gone within a week or so, with no medication being necessary."  
[Source](http://www.uvguide.co.uk/phototherapyphosphor-info.htm) so its not irreversible? Oh, I read it as "Is this reversible?". My bad, it's 4am. This series of comments was frustrating and hilarious at the same time. Which was even more frustrating. Goddamit, Mr. Noodle. No, if his owner switches his bulb he should be okay soon. Might require a vet visit but as long as they do something he should be totally fine.

Edited because I'm an idiot. so its not irreversible? That is correct. It is not irreversible. I'm not upset to hear this! I don't disrespect the fact that you dislike the news of not hearing what you didn't never hate hearing in the first place.  Incorrect.  It's not un-irreversible. But didn't the other guy say it isn't un-irreversible?  I think you mean it isn't incorrect. if he switches to a different lamp soon, will the lizards eyes heal? [deleted] So somewhere between being fine and needing professional medical treatment.  Another day, another OP killing his pet. Btw everyone. Don't google image search for photo-kerato-conjuctivitis. Its also a human condition and it looks gross. Hey, I just wanted to thank you for bringing this up. I own a beardie, and I've never heard of this so I checked him out, seems fine. What i did realise, however, is that his UVB burnt out sometime in the last day or so. Not sure how long until I would have realised without this comment, so thank you :) [Hey there](http://i.imgur.com/7yjuZVw.jpg) [Sup](http://imgur.com/a1R7z) [In a few months you're going to find these little guys crawling around.](https://imgur.com/N2LUUJG)  Funny story about those. As kids, my family tossed them up a long stone fireplace in our house to try and get them to stick. And one stuck for 9 years. That seems more in-between /r/notinteresting and /r/mildlyinteresting. 

 ***NINE YEARS, CARL!*** /r/MinutelyInteresting Dude, he said 9 **YEARS**. I'd say it qualifies for /r/interesting. You are looking for /r/pointlessstories  Yeah, I got a toy sticky frog stuck on a 20 ft tall ceiling of my house 15 years ago. We didn't have a ladder tall enough to reach it, and it's still there, watching me. Judging me. Different species.  Here's the thing.... Life uh finds a way Cute haha.

I dressed my monitor up as a dragon, and let my bearded dragon ride him around.

http://imgur.com/a/dE6QE

Edit: bonus album of the monitor being cute:  http://imgur.com/a/Vt8ia Aren't you scared the big one might eat the little one? Or do they not eat smaller lizards? Garrus (The big one) is really tame, I work with him alot and socialize him with the other animals.  If something doesn't smell like a rat, or ground turkey, he won't try to eat it.

I was still super close supervising them though, can't be too safe! Oh man Garrus is such a perfect name for a lizard!! But weren't they modeled after birds? I think so, but birds and lizards came from a dinosaurs so I just decided right now that it's okay.

Edit: lizards don't but I still say it's okay Lizards didn't come from dinosaurs, by the way. You're right! Lizards predate dinosaurs! It blows my mind how we even know that much.  Yep, and iirc their skin was metallic as their ~~sun was a red giant~~planet had a weak magnetic field exposing them to high levels of radiation. Essentially flightless metal birds.

Edit: thx /u/PorcaMiseria What I never got about turians was: did they just evolve to have a metal suit of armor or did they just have metallic skin and went on from their building upon that with battle suits?

Turians are cool. Please tell me the bearded one's named Thane. No, his name is Megatron ... I'll accept it. "I'm Garrus Vakarian and my felt dragon wings are sweet as fuck" &gt;ground turkey

yeah but what about sea turkey? I'm guessing Garrus has the strength and the dragon has flexibility?  They are the perfect crime fighting duo
 I had a friend with two bearded dragons the same size and one of them accidentally ate the other.  They both darted at some food at the same time and one ended up inside the other's mouth, and then that one just decided, "Well, you're food now I guess."  Took it like a month to finish swallowing. &gt; "accidentally "

 I don't understand how that'd even be possible if they're the same size. Also, how does the owner know the details about how it happened, but didn't put a stop to it? Because it didn't happen. I agree, but I think commenting why I find something hard to believe makes for a better quality comment than just posting "/r/thathappened", and gives an opportunity for the poster to come back and explain how it's not BS. Because he's lying.   I've raised thousands of reptiles in my time, and other than an occasional end of the tail I've never had beardeds eat anything of another bearded. How does a bearded dragon fit in another bearded dragons mouth?? Your beardie looks so proud. For he has tamed the great beast I HAVE RIDDEN THE MIGHTY MOON REPTILE!!! "Onward my giant brethren!" *opens link, doesn't see the computer monitor, is confused.* Lizard And The Real Girl Man I love Lars and The Real Girl. Me and my wife have seen that movie several times. "wife" She's a real girl! I promise! That beardie is dominating the toy; its not cuddling. Male Bearded Dragons are fairly solitary creatures.

Source: i am a male bearded dragon I used to have a pet rat named Norman. He was such a fucking bro. One day my shithead little brother put a rubber snake in his cage and I walked in to see him viscously tearing it to bits. It was metal as fuck, but I felt bad for the fact that he thought he was in a life or death situation. What a legend. Miss you buddy.  I have a 7ft long Taiwanese beauty snake named Mr. Cuddles.  One day I fed him a live rat in the bath-tub because the pet store was out of frozen ones. Anyways my snake is a little bit special and bit the rat's ass instead of his head, so the rat turned around and  bit the snakes face.  Long story short, I had to climb in the bathtub with the both of them and stab the rat to death with a knife so Mr. Cuddles wouldn't get seriously hurt.   

There was blood everywhere and i felt like a monster, but at least Mr. Cuddles still has his face. Wow. That's, uh, that's pretty fucked up. Sorry you had to stab a rat. Eh, such is life. Thats pretty rad. Yeah man, he went Bruce Willis on that rubber snake.  "Iguana tap it, but I have a reptile dysfunction." You need to scale down these puns and stop dragon us down.   I owned two bearded dragons, I light colored one and a dark colored one, both names Michael Jackson. They used to do this. I thought it was cute until I realized that white Michael Jackson was actually dominating black Michael Jackson to death. Rip black Michael. [deleted] [I feel like he'd fit right in here](http://d3qvyul2tp4j8.cloudfront.net/i/Xp7zaX9kyb.jpg). Intersting cross section of the people involved in whatever that fetish is called. Some bought the quality Real Dolls, while others have the "Walmart" version.  Oh, shit, I thought it was just that only about a third of the people brought their dolls with them.  NOPE Especially the woman in front, holy shit had to double take is that a woman in the back? a real woman I mean.. not to say those others aren't real.. a human woman..  I like how you skirted around that. Are we trying not to offend dolls or doll fuckers now? No, I just think her boyfriend went to the restroom.  He's the one taking the picture. Nahh dude in back is double dating.  One high-end good looking girl to treat right and one down and dirty girl who is willing to do anything. that guy in the back with 3 dolls  What a pimp! Buddy in the back row gots like three of Dem hoes. Aaaand I have moved from pics to wtf...  
Fucking reddit. Jesus that is creepy... Oh so it's cute when a cold blooded reptile does it, but when I do it... Where do you find 6 foot long rubber iguanas? It's kind of sad when you think about it, but its cute. Sure, but when I'm trying to make some sweet love with a doll, then I'm just pathetic! Is it a toy lizard though? It's not trying to mate with the toy. 

A: [Lizard sex doesn't look like that](http://www.kingsnake.com/gladescs/bearded/breeding2.jpg)

 B: The toy does not register as a lizard to the animal. He's just laying there basking. That's it. -she's quiet but I am too so... Aww...he has a waifu! Neck-bearded dragon Bearded dragons commonly lay on top of each other as a sign of dominance. The top dragon absorbs all the UV. Go into any pet store and look at the juveniles they stuff into those tiny enclosures. You should see a group trying to bask in a pile. [Saw this at Petco]
(http://imgur.com/s9dLasJ)

One on the right just wasn't having it. This is an incredibly sad picture to anyone that knows anything about beardies... Sand is VERY dangerous, especially to these young ones. Sub 90 degrees Fahrenheit means they aren't digesting food properly. If they end up digesting any sand (which they will if they are hunting), they will have a hard time passing it, causing impaction. [deleted] http://i.imgur.com/ZtvdYp8.jpg Dammit OP, you got alotta people waiting for the lamp update.  That is behavior that (I believe) over time would kill another bearded dragon because it blocks all he uv rays that the bearded dragon needs. Source: had 2 bearded dragons. This is actually kind of true. Some people think bearded dragons are "cuddling" when they lay on top of one another, but actually one is trying to block the sun light and warmth of the other, forcing them to leave.

It's not cuddling *at all*. For anyone wondering why you don't house Bearded Dragons together. Here are some sad pictures.

https://www.beardeddragon.org/forums/viewtopic.php?f=6&amp;t=154908 Kinda sad.  How is it sad?

The lizard doesn't see that toy as a friend, or a mate, or anything but something to lay on. Additionally, bearded dragons arn't social animals. They don't like friends. They like being alone. Other dragons are just competitors for food, warmth, and safe places to sleep. 

That lizard is just basking on something soaking up the rays... You just think it's sad because you're projecting your feelings on it. That lizard doesn't have any feelings on it at all. [First thought. ] (http://i.ytimg.com/vi/NLPv7fBnAnk/maxresdefault.jpg)  I gave my old one a toy bus that had a button on the bottom that made the lights light up red he loved the red lights and he would flip the bus over and keep stepping on it to try to get the lights to reflex off the tank he would also throw it around the tank and sleep on it  Kinda rapey Bethany: What's he like?

Metatron: God? Lonely. But funny. He's got a great sense of humor. Take sex for example. There's nothing funnier than the ridiculous faces you people make mid-coitus.

Bethany: Sex is a joke in heaven?

Metatron: The way I understand it, it's mostly a joke down here, too.

Dogma-1999 "Rape Train has no brakes". Not at all. 

Plastic lizards can't say no.  Does this picture depress anyone else? http://i.imgur.com/bCRVdVg.jpg Absolutely adorable! :D Is your lizard named Lars?  Bearded dragons are social and communal animals, get him another friend and you'll see him have some fun antics.

EDIT: Clearly this was a sarcastic post Really I always thought otherwise. I thought about getting my wife's beardie a friend but shes been against it.  Ehh not so sure, if you get a male they will battle for dominance, if you get a female it will constantly rape it. If you get another species, well other lizard species tend to be aggressive.  Being a lizard is a lonely life as a pet. &gt; battle for dominance 


&gt; constantly rape it

Yea. That's what he said, fun antics. Lonely isn't bad. They're not social animals. They're perfectly content to have the whole place to themselves. 

Every species has different needs. They don't all match ours. What about 2 females? That might work, I only know the lizard facts my brother spouts out. You're probably joking around, but in case you're not: DO NOT HOUSE 2 MALE BEARDED DRAGONS TOGETHER. One will become the dominant male and essentially make the other it's bitch. The non-dominant one will either be killed outright by the dominant male if not die from lack of food and constant bullying. That is in no way correct.  No its pretty much the opposite of what you just said  No, this is wrong. It's sad people are upvoting this, who clearly know nothing about the care of these animals...

The *vast* majority of lizard species are solitary creatures. They do not find enjoyment or enrichment in company. Another lizard is just competition for food, shelter, and heat. Two males will fight and i've even seen them kill one another. A male and female, and the male will mate with the female constantly because she cannot escape, stressing her and forcing her to produce eggs which are a huge toll on her body. Even two females will fight. Usually the dominant female gets all the food and prime basking spots, while the other lizards health declines.

Keep your pet reptiles apart. They're happier when they have a space to themselves. It takes my dog about 20 meters to realize i didn't actually throw the ball... He is not a smart dog, but I love him... I have a Border Collie sheep dog. I've never been able to fool her with the "pretend ball throwing" trick. She just stares at me. My dog is smareterer than me. We used to think we had fooled my dog with it, turns out she had a ball at every corner of the garden so would run and get one of those... sneaky bugger. So she has a plan B for when she fails to locate the thrown ball in order not to disappoint you? That's the sweetest thing I read today.

Edit: Oh, you mentioned it's "she". But my question holds: how do you refer to a dog of unknown gender in English? "he"? I always look for a penis on a dog. That helps any to avoid any confusion. But yeah, she'll bring the ball back to us and when we take it away we show her that we've had enough by putting the ball up high and spreading our hands. Then she huffs at us, runs outside and returns with another ball. Once she brought us a frisbee but I passed the test because a frisbee isn't a ball. TAKE THAT, DOG! Avoids all confusion except for the question as to why a complete stranger is staring at a dog's genitals How can you not stare! THEY'RE RIGHT THERE IN FRONT OF YOU! Well you don't have to salivate sorry, I have a bit of a conditioned response my italian greyhound is hung like an italian man. So he's a girl? Found the Sicilian. My 7 pound Chihuahua is about 2 pounds of dick.  Interesting. My next door neighbours Chihuahua is a massive cunt. We should get them together. I used to know a guy who would tell people he was hung like a field mouse."Did you know a field mouse's penis is about 25% of its body weight?" I never felt compelled to check. &gt; I always look for a penis on a dog.

/r/nocontext &gt; I always look for a penis on a dog.

 &amp;#3232;_&amp;#3232; That went 100 to 0 real quick That trick works well with people too. Dogs are boys, cats are girls.  http://25.media.tumblr.com/tumblr_lghh5vvhYu1qgt7z5o1_500.jpg &gt; how do you refer to a dog of unknown gender in English?

Oh my... That's a bit of a grammatical minefield. No matter what, someone will think you are wrong.

1. "It". This is valid, but might make some people unhappy. Especially if they own pets. People tend to think that "it" is for non-*living* things if you ask them, but in real usage, "it" is often used for living but not sentient or liking but not human things. We do call trees "it", for example.
2. "They". This is also valid. Grammatical prescriptivist like to pretend that "they" is not a gender neutral third person pronoun, but the usage is extremely common, and everyone understands it.
3. "Xe" or another synthetic word that people have come up with to describe people who are trans-gender or have non-binary genders. There is no clear consensus as to what set of pronouns is best, and you'll likely confuse people. It's the most conscientious option perhaps, but not productive. 1. Don't you refer a human baby as "it" as well?
3. How do you pronounce "xe"? I think the best solution is to reword your sentence so you don't use a pronoun at all. I believe you would use "it". Mine does that. She has a stash hidden in the garden. She'll bother us all night with balls and we keep taking them away from her but she returns with another. Edit: [Proof](http://i.imgur.com/ShxnMvd.jpg) That's a dog and a ball. Claim must be true.


I would make a horrible judge. OVERRULED! OBJECTION! GUILTY! FILIBUSTER! That is one photogenic dog Man, she sure is. Her name is Maggie. She's 9 years old. We tried putting a [shirt](https://scontent.cdninstagram.com/hphotos-xpf1/t51.2885-15/e15/11084654_842214989149660_2066060806_n.jpg) on her the other day for shits and giggles. She didn't even bite me that much. Also, she can basically get any treat she wants when she uses this [trick](https://scontent.cdninstagram.com/hphotos-xfp1/t51.2885-15/e15/10919299_645293612263454_1797609493_n.jpg).  &gt; She didn't even bite me that much.

 [Dogs and their balls](http://i.imgur.com/jGttRZT.jpg) Have you ever given or gotten anal on the first date? Be honest.  This is neither the time nor the place. We'll take that as a yes. I'll be honest, I was surprised that wasn't furry porn. My border collie will run after the false ball, then prance back and demand a treat. After getting a treat, she walks directly to where I hid the ball and brings it back.

My dog is smarter than me. Heh. I fake-throw the ball as hard as I can and she doesn't take her eyes off me. Then I apologise. I never get a chance to fake throw, my BC always starts running as soon as he hands off the ball. Sometimes he'll just throw the ball back at me and let it roll to my feet while he's running out.  

 That's neat. At our local dog park there's a kelpie who'll only play with the youngest kid there. My youngest is nearly 4 and she'll follow him around with a ball, dropping it at his feet and barking. When he leaves she finds the next oldest kid. It's quite remarkable. I would like to have that dog. Are you sure that kelpie is not a pedobear in a dog's costume? She's like, "Stupid human, he thinks he threw it and he didn't even have it.. oh well, treats are treats."  &gt; smareterer 

checks out. Goddamit.  &gt;Goddamit.


Still checks out.

 jesus christ. &gt;jesus christ.

*tisk tisk* 


"Jess Christ." But he is a convincing fellow.  &gt;jesus christ.

That's a proper name, so...

Still checks out. &gt;jesus christ.

Not looking too good for you, buddy.  Aussie owner here. The observation skills of Aussies/BCs blows my mind every day.   I don't know if that's the case with your dog but many herding dogs, (for example australian sheepherds as well) don't even look at the ball in this situation, instead they look more at you.

that was also the way you could fool the border collie of a friend. if you kicked the ball for her she was always prepared and knew exactly where to run to. but it turned out she looked at where the human aimed.

so if you did a weird, somewhat "unnatural" movement to kick the ball into a different direction (plus also important: look in a different direction than the one you were kicking the ball to) she wasn't instantly able to tell where the ball was going.
 My dog is a Border Collie cross with a Huntaway (NZ Sheep dog, bigger, stronger and designed to bark to herd sheep from beyond the hills).


He stares deep down at my eyes into my soul. He understands every single bit of my life and hardly ever falls for tricks. He's actually so smart that he would actually "fool around" with you when you're running around a few couches to play chase. He'll run at a slower pace or stop at the other end of the couch to make you think that you're winning. There's no outrunning him. This sounds like my border collie. If you "sell" the fake out just right, she will buy it! When I'm working her out I try to switch between ball and frisbee which she loves. It's quite something watching how she handles the ball vs frisbee. With the ball she will run in the direction I tell her, or if I don't specify, her best guess. Which is almost always the right guess.Her goal seems to be to make it far enough out that when the ball bounces once she's got it. With the frisbee she has to track it differently in the air so she leaps at just the right time. I can also tell her to put them together and she will put the ball on the frisbee. These dogs are crazy smart! They are a joy to own!  That's a damned smart breed though. I'd be fucked if I had one of them smrt dogs. Don't get me wrong, she still eats poop but I have an inkling she's eating poop to gauge my reaction as part of a scientific study. I guess I'll have to wait for her thesis to see the results. Now that you're AWARE, you're going to skew her results! I know. Maybe I should start eating poop too. MAYBE THAT'S WHAT SHE WANTS! I JUST DON'T KNOW WHAT'S REAL ANYMORE! There's a reason they use them for sheep hearding THEY HEARDED THEM GOOD?? Good luck trying to outsmart a Collie. They're one of the smartest breeds out there. They *are* the smartest breed.  At least I've heard that they are the smartest breed, and my own experiences with dogs corroborates that.  They also one of the most energetic breeds.  Its a very bad combo, if you are not a competent dog owner, and have lots of time and energy of your own to keep a BC entertained.

Same goes for Huskies.  They are super smart and super energetic.  If you can't keep up with such a demanding dog, it will be much more trouble than they are worth.  Its a big shame, because so many people get huskies because of their beauty, but they end up in the pound, because the owners can't handle it. Border collies are my favourite breed and the best Herding dogs are smartest breeds. If you cross two herders you create  das UberHund. &gt; das UberHund

German Shepherd? But if you cross a border collie with a lab, you end up with a dog that can be fooled by the ball trick, but clever enough to get his way in to sealed cupboards/containers that no dog should have any business getting in to, so long as there's food involved.  Reminds me of my dog, but we would always get her back because after she just sat there with a blank face, we would point in the direction of where we threw it, telling her to go get it...  she would always run off in the direction we were pointing and start looking for it, until she saw us holding the ball out again I had a poodle whom we used to play hide and seek as kids. We would throw the ball to the backyard then go hide inside the house. She would grab the ball and look for us inside. Once found she would drop the ball and run back to the backyard so we could throw it again. The game was the first one to hit 10 lost the game.

Anyways, we stopped playing because my sister and I grew up and my parents decided to breed the dog (this was the late 80s in south america please don't judge I spay and neuter now) and we kept one of the puppies.

One day, 6-7 years later I'm playing Warcraft II and I hear a commotion in the backyard, so I peek through the window and noticed that the mom had taught the daughter how to play hide and seek . The daughter would get the ball, drop it on the floor in front of the mom and then dash inside. The mom would circle around it a few times, grab it and then run inside and try to find the daughter, rinse and repeat.

They played for hours and several times a day. Poodles are very intelligent creatures.
 that is like, the second cutest thing I've read all day. *awwwwwwww* Love without compassion. Based on his expression in the pre throw photo, I'd say this sort of betrayal has become commonplace. 

Yeah, this is going to be a delight.   
Is he really going to throw this time?  
Of course not.   
Fuck.  
 aren't they all pre throw?  That's optimistic. http://i.imgur.com/sWZ0Btf.gif That is the K-9 Kayne ^^http://i.imgur.com/HUxQFQB.png  
^^Brb, ^^totally ^^making ^^a ^^gif ^^with ^^his ^^face..  
^^[Boom.](http://gfycat.com/InsistentSecondhandHoneyeater)  
^^.. ^^not ^^really ^^happy ^^with ^^the ^^result.. ^^I'll ^^keep ^^working.  

[Ignore the previous pathetic attempts, this is the real stuff.](http://gfycat.com/LazyThunderousArcticduck) You already brought my dreams to reality. raw footage of kanye's jaw surgery K9nye? K-nine-ye http://i.imgur.com/cBGiK.gif My balls?!?!? You bastard "La la la having a great day..oh...so you're filming this." Is this .gif reversed? Cuz it *looks* reversed. Want a bath? [I trusted you...]( http://i.imgur.com/V4fdmfC.jpg) /r/unexpected Obviously fake, what is she deaf? Bare feet on carpet make little noise. http://i.imgur.com/XaPtpdy.jpg am i missing something I believe that is Confusious. i see said the blind man as he peed into the wind The comment was said in such a way it would fit a "Confusious say" meme..."Bare feet on (a) carpet make (very) little noise" [OP afterwards.](http://i.imgur.com/2Lhyt12.gifv) http://i.imgur.com/HJ3C15k.gif What's the story behind this gif? A soccer player is consoled by [his daughter](http://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-2144889/Footballer-cries-losing-match-consoled-daughter.html) "Scroll down for video"


*scrolls down*


*hits play*


"Video not available"


-.-


Now I know how the Husky feels.  https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fbqitPTVTdE I wish I were as manly as the guy who came up with that title. Careful you'll lose man card benefits too if you start showing emotion. You trusted u/PainMatrix and he failed you  Thanks! You are welcome. I love at the end when she's just like "Dad, really?" Every time I see that actor I think of this. [Tangerine.] (https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZS6bD3SpIvk) I always think of him saying his own name when he pronounces 'my cocaine' in his own accent. I am not exactly sure what I just watched. A tangerine. YouTube.  Damn I've never realized this same "situation" happened in Interstellar.

[They trusted him, and he failed them.](http://images.moviefanatic.com/iu/s--rPpPH1hB--/t_full/f_auto,fl_lossy,q_75/v1415635406/interstellar-michael-caine-matthew-mcconaughey.jpg) Michael Cain can disappoint me any day though. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ygxEPkufryI Throw the ball already OP.  Your dog needs the exercise.....he's starting to look a little husky.  http://i.imgur.com/tLqFDnG.jpg that fucking dog will always make me smile https://s-media-cache-ak0.pinimg.com/236x/6d/d6/1c/6dd61cce8af9f2254a47d6406ee1dc6b.jpg http://i3.kym-cdn.com/entries/icons/original/000/006/622/tumblr_lzjrsoo61q1r50h4io1_400.png http://i.imgur.com/g2QDcoi.gifv This dog is [thinking](http://teamcovenant.com/wbalvanz/files/2015/04/fetch.png). What he really is [thinking.](https://s-media-cache-ak0.pinimg.com/originals/3a/97/0e/3a970e8f778d8a24244230d41cbe056e.jpg) Yes, cupcakes! Sweet cakes for all! *collapses into foetal position* http://i.imgur.com/N5l3EYX.png Yeah man your dog is a fat piece of shit. http://i.imgur.com/iQUkxtG.png &gt;your dog is a fat piece of shit.  

Great! now he's self conscious. It's okay, he's a dog. [Quiet! He didn't know](http://i.imgur.com/ohR3Vy2.jpg) Moon moons pissed.

http://cdn3.thomhartmann.com/sites/default/files/Smile_Dog.jpg FUCK YOU. Now I have to send this to several people or less I die. Be right back. Its been 18 minutes, RIP /u/atleastwasntanal
 hey, at least it wasn't anal Don't worry, [Immunity Cat's got your back.](http://www.imgur.com/0HehnJB) Yes but what about the husky?








ayy? Macarena? AHYYYY!! Your dog is a white walker http://i.imgur.com/IMuQuSl.jpg I am disappoint dog.  http://imgur.com/jAV14Qw literally _ Thank you for taking care of that pun thread at the source with a still comical response.  I think you're looking for r/fatcaninehate

EDIT: lol someone just made it a thing  41 here, 4 subscribed.

Why would you subscribe? You take that back! Don't steal my back! I've got your back. Please give it back. Baby come back. 
 baby got back. I'm bringing sexy back. [relevant](http://jokideo.com/wp-content/uploads/2012/04/156129_307178669356182_126894987384552_705942_588241881_n.jpg) P-P-P-PUUUUUN BREAKER!  http://i.imgur.com/F1ix3ow.jpg http://i.imgur.com/V9okkZX.jpg My reaction to this pun is exactly the same as the dog's in the last panel. If you want to start a pun thread, you can't begin with the best one possible. You have to throw us a bone. Did the dog speak up or is he a Mala-mute? Source: https://twitter.com/JasmineMilton_/status/607610935851810816 I saw the quotes and was going to say I appreciate that...BUT you even POSTED the source? God damn OP. 10/10. Haha, I do my best! ;) The one-two of karma collection... a connoisseur, I see [**@JasmineMilton\_**](https://twitter.com/JasmineMilton_/)

&gt; [2015-06-07 18:11 UTC](https://twitter.com/JasmineMilton_/status/607610935851810816)

&gt; So I pretended to throw a ball and caught the exact moment my dog realised I had betrayed him... [[Attached pic]](http://pbs.twimg.com/media/CG6q6XmWQAAhD4D.jpg) [[Imgur rehost]](http://i.imgur.com/pZi9zZ0.jpg)

----

^This ^message ^was ^created ^by ^a ^bot

[^[Contact ^creator]](http://www.np.reddit.com/message/compose/?to=jasie3k&amp;amp;subject=TweetsInCommentsBot)[^[Source ^code]](https://github.com/janpetryk/reddit-bot)
 



&amp;#3232;_&amp;#3232;

**&amp;#3232;_&amp;#3232;** Uhhh don't you have a .gif you should be making or something? [\\\_()_/](http://i.imgur.com/XT0ObVI.gif) http://i.imgur.com/TQmdOQT.jpg Increase the gif speed, and we get [Daft Puppy](https://gifsound.com/?gif=i.imgur.com/NZyDabZ.gif&amp;v=jtQC8ChpUeg). Now we're getting somewhere Need to number the pictures maybe? 1) "So what are we doing today?"

2) "BALL!!!!"

3) "Hey, wait a second..."

4) "Fuck you" 5) "This bond we had....is now broken" &gt;5) "This bond we had..... is now broken"

##DIESE BINDUNG HATTEN WIR NUN GEBROCHEN!

If you say it like that then it's Rammstein lyrics.  German always sounds like I doing blood magic or some shit. [Kind of gif'd it.](http://i.imgur.com/YpOfPSx.gif) "I'm tired of your shit, man" look. [This is what he thought](http://i.imgur.com/nmMVUaO.jpg) I love it. 'Prick' is the perfect caption for that fourth picture. LPT: If a dog thinks you're an asshole, you're probably an asshole.  Gettin' real tired of your shit, OP. Master, I am [disappoint](https://milleralex.files.wordpress.com/2012/07/son-i-am-disappoint.jpg) This guy look like Simon Cowell ate a fucking dresser.  His neck alone looks like it has multiple homicides on its record. LOL, that is awesome shot If he was a she, I would say I've never seen a more literal example of resting bitch face. My buddy's dog doesn't take any shit. He just assumes the ball is fair game after the "throw" and tackles you. I pulled this trick on my dog constantly until she just stopped bringing me her ball and trying to play with me.  Now we're pretty much just roommates that ignore each other and sometimes I forget to feed her. i have the opposite problem, when i pull my arm back to throw a stick, my dog runs off to try and find it before i even have a chance to throw it!  RIP owner Why does every post now begin with "So..."? [BALL!](http://i.imgur.com/81doGMB.jpg) It looks like he is going to go for another ball since you didn't share. That is not a dog, looks more like the thing I am afraid of that lives under my bed You have been marked for death, human.  You can almost read his thoughts - "You shady motherfucker." That dog looks so done with your bullshit OP. +1 for making me smile today. I showed this to my wife just after she had a cookie and a drink of water. Her intense laughter turned to intense choking as she ran to the washroom in a panic. She was ok a minute or two later. 

Tl:dr your picture nearly killed my wife Who the hell eats cookies with ***water?*** The third is a total "fuck you" look "cut the shit man" -OP's dog step 1) get pic of dog blinking
step 2) karma Dogs are something else :P Dog: you think this is a game, stop fucking with me! "I'm so sick of your shit, Charles" You might consider getting a guard dog to guard you from him ;) hands down the best post on reddit right now Your dog has more emotional range than Kristen stewart "You bastard. Let's see how you like it not having any left shoes tomorrow." "I'm not mad, I'm disappointed." OP's dog just went to a really dark place in it's mind "Don't make me angry.  You wouldn't like me when I'm angry".  ~Dog The doggie does the same face when you drive past the dog park on the way to the vet. The dogs instagram site. 

http://instagram.com/huskydakota "I'm sick of your shit human ... this is why I eat your shoes" "I will remember this betrayal for at least 2.5 seconds." looks like he's pissed. That can't  be the best way to film a lion... Quit bein' a pussy. Back then men were real men. [A few more](http://imgur.com/a/A6L5j) That first one is terrifying. It's a tiny part of the reactor core that melted its way clear into the basement and sluiced across the floor, mixed up with a lot of sand, concrete, and pieces of the reactor shield. They call it the [Elephant's Foot](http://rarehistoricalphotos.com/the-elephant-foot-of-the-chernobyl-disaster-1986/), and for years it was so dangerous staying near it for even 1 minute gave someone a lethal dose of radiation. Its radiation has decayed a bit and the physical structure itself cracked up a little, but it's still dangerous and still freaky. If I recall at least one person died trying to photograph it.

Chernobyl created some brand new geological formations. All sorts of crazy new minerals formed in the meltdown, including [Chernobylite](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Chernobylite) glass. I visited chernobyl last week, i expected complete emptiness and that you won't see more than a couple people living there.

Turns out like 2000 people work there and around the area lol. The trip didn't really give me a, how do you say it, "apocalypse-feeling" ? 

Still worth it for 130 USD, groups are also waaaaay smaller now because of the conflict there It wasn't "Fallouty" enough for ya? Eh. The graphics were great, but atmosphere was totally off. 7.5/10... too much molten radiation.


 Chernobyl is a testament to the relative safety of nuclear power. Hear me out.

There  is no way for nuclear power to go worse than Chernobyl. That's as bad as it can get. It was the worst kind of reactor designed by the worst engineers and installed in a place where it received the least amount of maintenance.

Given ALL of that, even the most AGGRESSIVE estimates of the damage done by the Chernobyl meltdown don't touch hydroelectric disasters on the scale of [Banqiao](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Banqiao_Dam), and hydroelectric is touted as one of the safest forms of power generation.

In 2010, I did a [comparison of various forms of power generation and their relative safety](https://www.physicsforums.com/threads/how-much-for-a-nuclear-power-plant.429126/#post-2882522). The PhysicsForums still quotes it [every once in a while](https://www.physicsforums.com/threads/shouldnt-we-disable-nuclear-reactors-in-california.490122/#post-3246717).

There are plenty of ways to do the math, but nuclear power just isn't dangerous enough to warrant the fear we surround it with, not when we get so much power from coal, oil, and natural gas. It's also very interesting to think that nuclear power is one of the only "accountable" forms of energy. 

What I mean by this is that all the uranium used and disposed of is tracked. Every mol with only a slight margin of error is accounted for. It's not disposed, and it's not released to the atmosphere the same way coal is disposed and released. Uranium can't just go missing without a serious investigation.   It's the name of it more than anything else. The uneducated masses fear the "Nuke". The "Hydro" and the "Electric" do sound more safe.

You can tell a person that a dog is friendly, but if that person already has a fear of dogs he still won't go near it. Sure! I'm all in favor of calling nuclear power "megakitten funstorm." Or even just "steam power".

The issue is that we routinely allow the uneducated masses to sway the educated masses. Until we resist, as a population, the knee-jerk reaction to words we won't really have a solution. "Steam power is just nuclear power! Don't fall for it!" can be an equally damaging message.  "Apocalyptic" was probably the word you were looking for :) No he obviously meant apocalypsy! Yes ! I meant apocalyptic :p I was supposed to go last year, but the Ukraine crisis kicked off and I figured it wasn't worth it try to get a another hostel in Kiev at the time. Yeah when people protested on the Maidan it was quite dangerous but now it's very calm, east-ukraine and the war there is a 10 hour drive away so no worries.

Stayed in the grand station hostel and it was great ;) If anyone is interested in learning more about the Chernobyl disaster, I can greatly recommend /u/R_Spc 's [imgur album](http://imgur.com/a/TwY6q).

[Link](http://www.reddit.com/r/pics/comments/33wn00/its_the_29th_anniversary_of_the_chernobyl_nuclear/) to original submission Is that really people standing in the room? How fast did they die? I'm pretty sure I've read that this picture is a double exposure and that nobody got that close to the elephant's foot in the immediate aftermath.  The exploration team was using a radiation detector to be sure the areas they were entering were safe, and when they stuck it around the corner it went off the charts.  They quickly snapped a picture of the elephant's foot and got the fuck out of there.  There was a really great series on Chernobyl on here not long ago, you should look into that for more information on it.

EDIT: [Here it is](https://www.reddit.com/r/pics/comments/33wn00/its_the_29th_anniversary_of_the_chernobyl_nuclear/) Iirc they use a mirror to take the first picture of it. With as much radiation that it was putting off, the first camera they used to try and take a direct picture broke. Which would explain the ghostly image of the guy as another reflection. Ahh, so that's what's up with the ghost playing the guitar.  I don't think there's much information on the fate of these workers. But around the time this photo had to be taken, about 5 minutes of exposure would be deadly. [Source](http://nautil.us/blog/chernobyls-hot-mess-the-elephants-foot-is-still-lethal) Also this is one of the few images.  Radiation destroyed the film within cameras.  Out of an entire roll of film, I think this and maybe two or three other frames were all that could be developed.  The radiation also explains the amount of noise seen in the image. Note that that was when the Elephant's Foot was first found, and the pictures then were black-and-white. These photos with the workers were probably much later, and the radioactivity of it would've subsided considerably since then.

The thing about something being tremendously radioactive is that it cannot remain tremendously radioactive for very long. Maybe not *tremendously* radioactive, but they say it will still be dangerous for the next 100,000 years Though despite smart ass responses, This actually did get me curious. [This](http://rarehistoricalphotos.com/the-elephant-foot-of-the-chernobyl-disaster-1986/) website seems to have some info.  That's actually a pretty cool website, I have learned quite a bit about photos I constantly see with just a click bait title or little to no information. Thanks for the link. As someone else said, that's a very cool website and full of good info. They lived for the rest of their lives. Thanks, Dad. Man, that pic of JFK's funeral.  I just got chills. I remember a documentary about it in my government class and a few people who were there talked about it being a really lighthearted event and everybody was just sharing good memories. The way a funeral should be. [Indeed](http://youtu.be/KSE1Mtnnm4Y) So his funeral was more like an Irish wake?  So much potential, and to think it all fits inside that one box.  I am not sure it's potential.  Kennedy basically couldn't get anything done when he was alive because there was so much opposition in Congress.  After he was killed, LBJ used his death to pass a lots of the reforms.  A lots of the big changes would not have happen if JFK wasn't assassinated.
 His funeral was not in Capitol building. The picture is of the wake when he was laying "in state", days before the funeral. The funeral took place in St Matthew's Cathedral and he is buried in Arlington.  For that picture of the Titanic, you can clearly still see people standing on the upper decks, especially in the stern. To me it really does give a sense of how small the ship was and it kind of gives you a visual as to how such a large ship had over half its people on board perish that night.

[The Titanic next to a comparable cruise ship of today.](http://rene.seindal.dk/upload/2014/10/Titanic-vs-cruise-ship.jpg) &gt;how small the ship was 

&gt;how such a large ship


? 

Also the Titan was huge for it's time, and it still is pretty big today; if I'm not mistaken that ship you've linked to is the Oasis of The Sea, which is the *largest cruise ship in the world.* It was completed in 2009. The Titanic sank almost *one hundred years* prior to the Oasis ever coming into existence. 

A pretty unfair comparison.  I think it's an interesting comparison at least.

The Titanic, at it's completion, was the largest (at least one of the largest) ships of its time. Oasis of the Seas is (or, was, at this point) the largest ship of our time. &gt; Oasis of the Seas is (or, was, at this point) the largest ***cruise*** ship of our time.

 