Good stuff in the article.  The lab claims:

&gt;We can produce a rhinoceros horn product that is actually more pure than what you can get from a wild animal. There are so many contaminants, pesticides, fallout from Fukishima. Rhino horn in the lab is as pure as that of a rhino of 2,000 years ago.

The International Rhino Foundation says:

&gt;Selling synthetic horn does not reduce the demand for rhino horn [and] could lead to more poaching because it increases the demand for the real thing. In addition, production of synthetic horn encourages its purported medicinal value, even though science does not support any medical benefits.

 I'd say the current anti-poaching methods are a complete failure.  Try flooding the market. Heard of [Air Shepherd](http://airshepherd.org/)? They have had very successful tests with their drones. 0 poaching for 6 months in an area which used to have heavy poaching behavior. That sounds amazing cool and something I'd want to support. Have any other anti-poaching charities verified their data and agree it's 100% effective? So, flood the market with cheap, synthetic but pure rhino horn. Protect the real rhinos with drones.

Win - win!
 You pay me enough money and I'll walk around with a pack of rhinos and snipe any mother fucker that comes close to them, sell their bodies to science and make a poaching science museum to where people and come and see all the failed attempts at being a complete asshole  "You pay me enough" your plan was doomed in the first 4 words. I'll do it for $50k/year, plus a one-time equipment requisition and travel expense fee ($20k) for my choice of weapons, ammunition, and outdoors equipment. To help make my bid more attractive, I'll even build my rifles from parts on my own time/experience and will only buy equipment from the REI coop (you keep my dividend check) and Amazon Prime. Anything not used out of the requisition and travel expense fund will be donated to whatever conservation I'll be fucking poacher's shit up in. You're hired. When can you start?  My current contract ends on August 31st and any time after that is good. I accept payment in bitcoin, Japanese food restaurant gift cards, and craft beer. &gt; craft beer.

What about Kraft Singles? I'm a bit of an elitist. I could only accept something like aged Vermont cheddar or imported Swiss. Can't be too picky on 50k/year Message me if you're serious and we can gain authorization from the local government and I'll give you a more competitive contract. Bonus: you get to hang out with chicks like this. 

http://i.imgur.com/Uo0LGcL.jpg

Edit: Her name is Kinessa Johnson and Google will turn up more images if you're interested. She did an AMA a while back too.  Holy shit, dem guns. [better view of the guns](http://cdn.rsvlts.com/wp-content/uploads/2015/03/Kinessa-Johnson-5.jpg) I'd go straight for her Um, if you go straight for her she'd be able to take you down without even thinking about it. No, you gotta flank her at oblique angles. Useless. She'd still take you down. Probably because she's more masculine than most of the dudes you've been with. Hey Vazquez, have you ever been mistaken for a man? No, have you ? This is true.  Please do not tell them. You took that wrecking very well.  She was used as a marketing tool
http://www.scout.com/military/warrior/story/1535978-former-seal-blasts-poacher-hunter Truly, I got no "I'm here to kill the bad guys" vibe from her AMA. I felt she was very open and forward about their/her position, actions and m.o. She again and again corrected redditors who used phrases like "hunting poachers". Murder is awesome. How can the prospective buyer even tell the difference if they're the same material? Pretty easily actually. Two things to consider:

1. 3D printing techniques are not flawless, a look under a microscope can reveal the the layers of the printing process.

2. As the lab claims, these synthetic horns are more 'pure' than real rhino horns. There are many reagent tests that can determine if a contaminate is present. If the test comes back negative for contaminates, it's likely a lab made.

tl;dr authenticity can easily and cheaply be proven. Yeah, the "as pure as that of a rhino of 2,000 years ago" part is marketing's way of spinning the fact that these are very basic imitations of a rhino horn lacking many of the features that lend to true authenticity.

Regardless, I hope it works. A lot of rhino horn ends up in quack medicines (although I read somewhere that up to 80% of the "medicinal" rhino horn is already fake). So it would be ground up and mixed with other ingredients before it ever got to consumers.  The rhino horn dealers who are already selling water buffalo or whatever as "rhino" will now have a powdered horn material that genetically tests as "100% real rhino."  

This may not affect demand for solid chunks of ivory used for carvings, but it could completely replace medicinal rhino horn.  If the horn carvers are no longer able to sell the leftovers from carving to medicine manufacturers, then that's going to cut into their profits a bit.   Ivory is elephants not rhinos Elephant tusks aren't the only ivory. Water buffalo, pigs, whales, walruses, ect also have ivory Yes, the synthetic horns are more "pure" than real rhino horns, but the nature of the process means that it should be trivial to dope them with whatever "contaminants" are necessary to pass testing.  Remember, the process itself is basically doping keratin with rhino DNA, so there's no reason you couldn't add other things as well.  Because the horn is largely a prohibited product and there's no giant monopolist lobby (like with diamonds), nobody is going to complain about them more effectively faking the real thing. Yeah, that will abolish rhino slaughter just like synthetic diamonds have abolished blood diamonds. The only reason synthetic diamonds haven't done that is the diamond lobby forcing a law that requires synthetic diamonds to be identifiable.

There's no law to make synthetic rhino horns identifiable, so the poaching market will be completely destroyed by them.

EDIT:  I may be wrong about the law here guys, I can't find a source to back up the law comment!  But it's likely that research into "perfect (indistinguishable) lab diamonds" isn't moving forward because of the threat of such a law. or the demand will explode among lower class uneducated citizens who couldn't used to afford rhino horns So then the production will explode too. The biotech company will make lots of money as well. Win win. Yeah 1/8 the cost means when demand goes up, you win by way higher margin.

Edit: price not cost, still when demand goes up and you are that much cheaper it is hard to choice the other. And one can only hope that they spend part of their earnings into protecting rhinos, given the higher demand side effect they will create.  I don't think a poacher will risk his life anymore if he is going to be undercut by the dude selling the fake one. yeah would it make more sense for said poacher to just become a wholesaler of these synthetic horn, seems safer, more legal, just easier better business  If they can make these indistinguishable from real ones the supply will skyrocket causing the value of real horns to plummet.  The risks involved with poaching (in some cases death) would be way too high to risk for the payoff. They will still have to protect the rhinos to prevent it from becoming less risky, but poaching would decrease significantly. Science

Edit: Also, these arent necessary goods like food they are luxury items. The price is affected by supply not demand. Even if the lower class was to become suddenly interested, they arent going to  break the bank on rhino horns. Meaning the price would have to be way less than it is currently for them to enter the market. At which point we're back to risk/reward not being worth it for poachers. Yeah. I think what a lot of people are thinking is that these will be sold as fake horns. From what I understand they will not say they are fake horns. Besides what makes the real ones better? If they are genetically identical its not just about looks anymore. These new horns are rhino horns, minus the rhino. If you don't know a forgery is a forgery then it is as good as the real thing.  &gt; Besides what makes the real ones better? If they are genetically identical its not just about looks anymore. 

This is basically magic we're talking about. I doubt they'll care about genetics. magic and culturally agreed upon value, like us and diamonds.  They aren't worth shit unless we agree they are.   Right. The same thing that makes real rhino horns better than synthetic rhino horns is what makes tiger penis good for virility, and so on. It's like how people will pay for water that's from the mouth of the Ganges River up in the Himalayas - how interested will they be in water that's 100% chemically similar with the mineral levels adjusted to match that water? Not in the slightest.  and real diamonds aren't nearly as rare as we're led to believe I think it has more to do with synthetic diamonds still being really expensive. The microscopic ones used for powertools are cheap as fuck. Large diamonds used for jewellery are prohibitively expensive. Are synthetic (not CZ but actual man made diamonds) 1/8 the price of normal ones? I can't seem to get a good read on prices from a quick google search In my brief Google searches they seemed on par in cost with real diamonds. Go figure.  [deleted] The only reason gem quality diamonds are as valuable as they are is that a cartel of very motivated, very resourceful, very wealthy people worked hard to convince us that they are. That cartel continues to use marketing to drive demand for bits of carbon stuck in rings of yellow metal.  Synthetic diamonds are really hard to make still.  Also it is hard to make them in large carat sizes. So as it turns out, production of synthetic diamond is pretty expensive, because there are WAYYY fewer imperfections in an industrially-formed diamond than in a dug-up-from-the-ground one. They're also smaller, because of the energy involved in making one, and are more sought-after by industrial applications. As a result, few of them make it to market for consumers to buy, and marketing by DeBeers tends to make a heck of an impact. &gt; Selling synthetic horn does not reduce the demand for rhino horn [and] could lead to more poaching because it increases the demand for the real thing.

So wait a minute, shady middlemen selling snake oil suddenly care about quality control in a country that had milk and baby formula tainted with melamine?  Maybe I'm misunderstanding a fundamental of capitalism here but I'm pretty sure they're going to want the best bang for their buck and tell the chumps who use this stuff that it's the real deal especially if their profit margin increases exponentially as a result.  

EDIT wrong chemical "International Rhino Foundation" says poo poo to the notion of their own obsolescence.

 This may be the only case I heard of where the West creates something fake for the Chinese. It's absolutely brilliant too! Seriously,  going after the poachers is treating the symptoms.  This is annihilating the actual problem by making the horns worthless. You need to do both, though. Poachers will poach for as long as they can sell the horns, meat, whatever, if they can do it with impunity. It's a way to make a living in a particularly desperate region of the world. They don't want the meat. They want ivory and horn, it's been like that since the 1800's. Kill the elephants and rhinos, saw off their ivory and horns, and sell them to wealthy people. Meat rots and needs storage and can only be sold locally. Why eat rhino when you can eat cow?

This is an utterly brilliant plan. Remember, plastic killed demand for ivory (piano keys and billiard balls). The demand for ivory continues to be strong, thanks to the Chinese.  As for this plan with rhino horn, I am highly skeptical.  One of the reasons rhino horn fetches such a high price is because of something known as the "anthropogenic allee effect" in which the more rare something becomes the greater the demand because possession of it becomes a status symbol.  It's not the masses who consume the horn, it's the wealthy.  They are likely to be discerning and reject something that is fake.  If consumers don't believe that the medicinal value of horn itself is fake, why would they accept the scientific basis for the equivalence of synthetic horn?  The only way this would work is if the synthetic horn was laundered into the market, but I doubt this lab is going to get involved in such activities. There's a famous article I can't seem to find about how eBay destroyed the antiquities market by flooding it with fakes.  This created a [Lemon Market](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Market_for_Lemons)

The point is that even wholesalers (forget about consumers) won't be able to verify if the product is real or fake without a complete supply chain history.  That's impossible with an illegal good, so the rhino horn market is in trouble. Poach the poachers and sell their ground up penises as an aphrodisiac. Human horn is used on Omicron Persei 8. Actually that would be the lower horn. The "Main event", so to speak... *Wooooh!* Ill have his lower horn jerked.  IT'S USED TO IT! Wooooooooo! Yes, but the poachers live until we find a cock merchant. I hear poacher penis cures aids too That's not really true, though: poachers will poach as long as the reward is worth the risk.  The real difference is that, right now, the payoff for poaching rhinos is high enough that desperate people are willing to risk getting shot at for it.  Do you think they'll still be willing to take that risk if there are safer choices with similar payoffs?  Of course not, they'd go do something where they wouldn't have to worry about getting shot at. So print the meat and make that worthless too. That technology is getting better every day! Except maybe weekends. Because the scientists who work on developing that technology might not work weekends. And I guess holidays. As a grad student:

LOL

...back to work. Holidays and weekends mean free &amp; easy parking! THIS SO MUCH! No annoying meetings either. Seriously, weekends are the most productive days ever. This is your P.I. What have I told you about being on Reddit during ~~work~~ hours? Get back to work. This is your department chair. What I have I told you about being on Reddit when you are supposed to be writing publications and grants. Get back to work. Man, if we could just print hamburgers, I'd be happy. Shit, I'd buy a printer. What a day that would be! Until you get halfway through and it stops because your broccoli and asparagus cartridge is empty, and won't continue printing until you replace the unnecessary carts.

Fuck you HP. Dealing with printer issues sucks so hard, I can't even imagine the horrors a food printer might make with bad drivers. I can't even imagine the horror. At my place of work I kicked and screamed to get ~~inkjet~~ laserjet everything, because fuck traditional ink cartridges. It was somewhat successful, but I make a lot of copies, and they decided to provide me with a regular ol' hp home copier to make 50 copies of things a day.

This is where my blind rage for HP comes in. Luckily if you never use it it doesn't go empty! My Brother printer actually insisted the color cartridges were draining even though they were never used. That's because they'd dry out. Inkjets are awful machines - I don't know why everyone doesn't use Laser these days. Even the colour machines are dirt cheap now. Right now risk&lt;reward. If the price tanks that could change for most poachers. In reality we could both bring back Rhino populations and satisfy the needs of the consumers by farming rhinos.  Vice did a episode on this (HBO I think) where Rhino farmers cut the horns off humanely and they grow back, so its perfectly safe.  

The only reason Rhinos have to die is because poaching is illegal and the poachers have to hack the horns off fast and brutally in order to get in and get out before getting caught.  They basically cut half the Rhinos face off.  

Farming is the best solution to the problem, kills two birds with one stone. They also kill the rhino so they don't waste time tracking a rhino with no horn.

I read something about dyeing the rhino's horns so poachers wouldn't be able to use them but they'd kill them anyhow so they wouldn't have to be fooled by it again. If it were easy to breed (farm) rhinos to begin with we would have better luck breeding them in captivity. And with all the food, water, land, vet care, etc it would cost per horn, the price could still be high enough that poaching is still economically feasible. Only now, even more people are willing to buy rhino horn because they can feel no guilt by assuming it is all ethically farm raised. If farming was successful it would also bring down the prices, until having a horn isn't as rare and no longer a status symbol.  It's only partly a "status symbol". Lots of animals go down because of stupid superstitious beliefs and "ancient medicine" nonsense. Yeah, but its so expensive now that probably most people don't get to adequately test for themselves that it works as well as eating your fingernails. If all 2 billion of them had costco sized containers of rhino horn they would find out pretty goddamn quick that its worthless.   I'm guessing a rhino needs a pretty large range, and it's hard for them to protect their young from predators without the horn. They're not there for decoration. If farming was profitable, people would already be farming them. In order for farming to work as a solution, we'd need to be able to farm efficiently enough drive poachers out of the market. Since it currently seems that farming can't match poachers, I don't see this as the "best solution." 

3d printing horns to drive poachers out of the market? Yeah, that's genius if we can produce a high enough quality product.  Ha! I wondered if this was possible. I even posted an [askreddit post](https://www.reddit.com/r/AskReddit/comments/18wr5z/would_it_be_at_all_feasible_to_plant_convincing/) two years ago asking whether it could be done, which no one noticed. Glad to know someone skilled had the same idea! Maybe they saw your post... Most modern scientific advances are a result of scientists skimming reddit for ideas. In a few weeks: "TIL Scientific uses a cumbox as cheap fertility treatment alternative" Computer Scientist here, can confirm. People will still want the authentic ones, it probably won't work. Same way people don't buy synthetic diamonds. The point is they can't tell. They are not flooding the market with horns labeled fake, they are gonna sell all fake horns as poachers and claim they are real. Wish people understood this part too. Except the same unscrupulous dealer who would sell real rhino horn would gladly sell fake horn and claim it's real.  This. Let's say I can but a real horn for $800 and sell it for $1,600 or I can buy a GMO horn for $100 and sell it for $1,600. 

10/10 I'll sell the  What? What will you sell?! Please tell us OP! Shit, that sniper must be back! I don't think so. I think we're sa Those damn poachers must have gotten him The, he sells the. RIP tang81, rhino horn dealers got him. :( RIP /u/tang81 

Killed by rhino horn dealer mid sentence  Yeah, but if the market is flooded the price will drop.  It's not about fake vs. real, it's about price and demand.  Now people might hoard horns - like the diamond companies - to artificially inflate the price.  But I doubt black-market-rhino-horn-sellers could organize themselves well enough.  That would work if it weren't for the "flood the market" part. You're not going to sell your "real" horn for 1600 if the guys down the street are selling their "real" ones for 1200, 1100, 1000, and 950. So you drop to 900, repeat until worthless.  You're not thinking like a criminal. You're a rhino horn dealer. You get the same knock off stuff as everyone else, but you take a small percentage of it, and claim it's the real thing and sell it for higher prices. "Sure, I've got the imitation stuff, right here."  Looks around, "But if you're interested, I can hook you up with a little of the real stuff."

End customers never buy a whole horn, they buy a tiny amount of powdered horn, so they'd have no way to tell. The market being flooded with counterfeits that are indistinguishable from the real thing drastically cuts the price of the real thing. Either way, poachers can't afford to sell at the new lower market rates.  True, but if the horns are illegal anyway, how are they going to check the authenticity? They will find a way. Diamond dealers have found a way to distinguish synthetic from mined diamonds with at least some degree of probability even though they are chemically identical and produced by the same physical process. De Beers, a multi billion dollar group, has exactly two machines in the entire world that can tell a real from a manufactured diamond. And it's not even correct 100% of the time. You really think there's anyone in the horn smuggling network that can do better?  But how could they tell if it's authentic? The knock-offs will have a "Made in USA" tag on them. I don't think you understand the plan.

The plan is to flood the market with cheap horns, undistinguishable from the real ones. Because of this, the seller would be in turn forced to drive the prices down, basically ruining the business. Because some things are not worth doing at 1/8th of the price. Absolutely. All jokes aside, this technological capability may be huge for animal conservation. Let's hope it takes hold, and serves to undercut the illegal market. Maybe in 10 or 20 years from now, we will see this market completely destroyed. We can hope.  The art market will love it as well. I love doing scrimshaw but it is pretty much illegal to get any horn or tooth which makes it incredibly hard to keep the art up. A legal set of teeth (small whale) can cost upwards of 500 to a grand. So if they did this with tusk or teeth and the price dropped 1/8 it would be amazing. 

Instead of a $800 paying $100 would definitely shift a market. There will always be people who prefer 100% real, but meh. If we are able to print ivory, it allows for things not possible with natural ivory such as eventually printing a 3'x3'x3' solid ivory block. Imagine what you could make with that. A horn sculpture! A 2'x2'x2' solid ivory block!

 You are are a creative thinker, aren't you?  Better fake teeth? THINK BIGGER!

Pants made entirely from Ivory!

An Ivory Duck Sculpture to take to your bath with you!

IVORY UNDERPANTS

The possibilities are endless! :D A toupee made from ivory! "Ordinary toupee hair is harvested from the Godless Orientals. Solid ivory is the only way to be insured of true follicular purity while still identifying myself as a man of means." - The Abed of racism
 Easy there Cornelius Hawthorne. Pants AND underpants!? Is there any barrier you won't smash down?  We could finally build that memorial to the old planet express crew. a sculpture of a 3D printing machine. An ivory rabbit hole. What? You've never seen a Nebraskan Cuboid Tusked Elephant before? You could also just print what you were trying to make in the first place instead of printing the solid block. If the genetic profile matches and you can't tell without ruining the object  (bonus points if they can reproduce the pulpy bits), then mission accomplished. What you're also missing is that this tech could, in theory, be used to print genetically compatible, reject resistant, bones for humans. in modern china there is a high priority placed on perceived value of things. They should sell this at a higher cost and market it as a premium version because it is not tainted by anything a wild rhino has eaten or done. Eventually they can then introduce a cheaper version and push the actual horns out of the market. sort of the Tesla business model. If that works people will do it  though.   Store owners will buy the fake stuff at 1/8 price and then sell it to people at full price.   Rhino poachers still won't be able to sell to store owners unless they really undercut the price.   People are wondering "what if store owners buy the real thing and really advertise that they have the real stuff?"  but the beauty of it is that if you can't tell the difference,  store owners with the fake stuff will just lie  Right, if you are selling parts of an endangered and illegal to hunt animal you likely have no issue lying and saying your cheap ass fake stuff is totally legit. Unless the cops come in case it's absolutely fake and you're just trying to help The beauty of chaos Please do this.  They need to sell it at market price or close to market price, and gradually flood the supply and lower the price over time.

Otherwise, people will know because "the price is too good to be true" and it will only raise the price of blood horns as techniques will develop to distinguish the two. 

So if I can figure out how to 3D-print cocaine, and sell it in mass quantities, I can drive the drug dealers out of my neighborhood? God damn I love technologies.  We should get top men on this. Who? Top. Men. [deleted] A cocaine winter is coming  I think there's a certain amount of merit to your way of thinking. Manufacturing safer purer synthetic replacements for prohibited substances rather than just banning them could effectively deal with a number of issues. A lot of prohibited substances are already synthetically manufactured, though, and the reason they're not always pure is because there aren't legit operations doing the manufacturing, i.e. because they're banned. Even in the absence of actual safety regulations, simply ending the ban would probably result in somewhat better products due to market forces alone, as it would be easier for information to spread about which producers are reliable - though of course this is still vastly inferior to government certification. At any rate, better manufacturing might reduce a few minor safety problems but would still leave the big glaring problem of addiction or whatever other harm those drugs do in uncontrolled doses, which is why they're prohibited. Just like how Walter White drove down meth use by releasing the purest meth he could make. It is different because cocaine actually does something. There is no way to tell real horn from fake horn based on use, because they don't do anything. Yes, it's different, but the difference works the opposite of how you're claiming it would. The fact that cocaine actually does something means that pure synthetic cocaine will have a more meaningful competitive advantage, because it'd work better too. This is a great idea and plan but WHY THE FUCK WOULD YOU ANNOUNCE IT?

Just quietly implement your plan and watch their market implode.

*loose lips sink ships* Because nobody is going through all that trouble just for the sake of altruism. They want the publicity. Hi! Matthew from Pembient here, one of the cofounders of the startup in this article. 

Thanks for all of the support! We will be here on Monday morning doing an AMA, so we're looking forward to discussing, answering questions, and keeping up the conversation on this important topic!  Maybe they can do the same thing with the shark's fin. ...and tiger penis. wait what Tiger penis. It's a delicacy.  One of the main components of 3 Penis Wine. Gordon Ramsay looked into the fin soup industry and at one place they showed him how the dish was prepared. The fin itself is actually really bland and cooked until it's almost a gel like texture. The flavor primarily comes from the soup broth. 

He did manage to show some of his findings to restaurant owners and get them to agree to stop serving it. Not great, but a good start in the right direction. Hopefully it catches on with more people. 

And for those curious the main reason people are against shark fin soup with that shark meat itself is worthless. It starts to go bad very quickly if not prepared properly. What fishermen with do is land a shark, cut off the shark's fins and dump the still living shark back into the water to slowly die. 

One or two sharks might not seem so bad but even small boats are harvesting dozens a day using this method.

[Video for those curious.](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4SAkq6lsnoE) That guy just seems to be a genuine awesome guy in pretty much every way, bad mouth but golden heart. His AMA was brilliant.

Or he's just really good at selling that image. Gresham Law states "Bad money drives out good". This is what they are doing with rhino horn. The bad(fake) will drive out the good(real) horn from the market.  As long as they can always have more supply than demand and you can keep the price low. It will not make financial sense, ie poaching overhead cost (bribery,etc..), to continue to pay poachers. 

At the new lower price, demand is going to explode because now lower income people can buy it. But at the lower price you can't use poaching for the supply because of how expensive it is. So as long as they can keep supply exceeding demand with the fake process you will force out the poachers. Will it still make financial sense to be part of poached horn supply chain when you can only sell it for 1/8 the cost now.  

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gresham%27s_law

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Market_for_Lemons

Forged artifacts have dramatically reduced the looting of antiquities.
http://archive.archaeology.org/0905/etc/insider.html
 A valiant conservation effort, and I do hope it succeeds.

However, I'm not convinced that it will (not convinced that it won't either), given the worldwide market desire for authenticism.

EDIT: Authenticity*. Authenticism turns out to not be a word. thats the beauty of a blackish grey market: No quality control The market is the control, however since rhino horns don't do anything itll be hard to find the seller that sells hoRNs that do work. After the Civil War, people began flooding the market with CSA memorabilia. TONS of fakes were made in order to capitalize on it. Eventually, Confederate stuff essentially became worthless because of the fear of fakes.

The same thing happened with Nazi stuff after WW2. If the risk of forged products gets too high, they will essentially become worthless. I hope they can do the same for human horn. Printer setting on 150% zoom Imma give you gold when I get home  Guys he did it. He... he finally came home... He's a better man than my father was... If only we could have done this before  the rhinos were fucked  [deleted] Maybe it's finally time to look into that ivory tower i've always wanted... To make it lasting business I'd add a little extra, say opium or Viagra. Just to get them hooked, Oh yes because a western nation getting the Chinese People Hooked on Opium worked out so well the last time we did it  Now that's a good idea. Make the fake ones actually work, unlike the real ones. I don't think it's legal, even in China, to do that, but if it is, that's brilliant. This is exquisitely diabolical.

It combines my belief in technology, my love of economics, my appreciation of a well-thought plan and my hatred of stupidity into something beautiful.

The buyers get meaningless crap, the startup gets their money, and the poachers get shafted. What a great time to be alive:) Question is though, can they distinguish the difference between a real and fake horn?

If there's a person that wants real horns instead of the fake horns, then the real horn prices might just sky rocket and cause even more problems. Unless they make it so that there's absolutely no way to distinguish between the real and the fake, this could either work out really well or back fire really badly. Now that's capitalism. I anticipate the next batch of spam e-mails, "100% geunuine Rhinow horrn, enharnce ur luv liife". *Enhornce ftfy knowing China, 99% of rhino horn is probably fake already. I am concerned this may backfire. there's evidence that flooding the market does not necessarily work for these kind of products. if I remember correctly they tried flooding the market at one point with elephant ivory and found that it actually only increase the demand If lab-created diamonds haven't impacted the precious stone market appreciably, I doubt this will have an effect on the horn market.   [deleted] So can one tell between the "authentic" and the "fake" or not?


That seems to be the only point that matters here.. if people will know which are fake and which are real then the company is not flooding the rhino horn market.. they are flooding the *FAKE rhino horn*, but obviously that has no affect on the real one.

If on the other hand people cannot tell between the two then there is only one rhino horn market and flooding it will achieve the affect they desire.

The article does not really seem to say either way. [deleted] Not like it would be hard for them to introduce a bit of fallout and pesticides to the printer goop and fake it even better, if they need to do that to crash the market properly.   I agree that this is really the key point, the plan only works well if their horn is indistinguishable from a real horn.  I looked up Mr. Markus public profile (bloomberg) and [called him](http://i.imgur.com/OYuO83r.jpg) to ask this exact question about looks. He actually answered! He basically said that the majority of what will go to market will be in powdered form, but also 3D printing of bio materials looks markedly different from the plastic models (with the lines and everything) and that the horns that will goto market "should" be indistinguishable from an actual horn. NOOO this is the stupidest strategy, it will create a BETTER market for the poachers! The flood of fake horns, even with actual genetic fingerprint will still be regarded as fake and inferior by the Chinese traditional medicine culture, and rich people will now pay MORE to make sure they get the real ones. Besides, at that high of a base price, 1/8 isn't that enticing. People who could afford to buy the horns have more money you can possibly imagine. Whoever thought of this idea had a good intent but knows absolutely nothing about the chinese culture The plan to beat an illegal Chinese market is to flood it with cheap knock offs? Brilliant. Selling so cheap immediately will show the fake-ness of the product. Make it 80% as expensive as the cheapest vendor, or something of the like. Slowly increase the release of the product.  Continue to drop the price over time. One must confuse the consumer between the real and the fake good. That's what will drop the price. The poachers will also do all in their power to convince the buyers otherwise. Poachers aren't stupid, they're just assholes. Don't underestimate the competition.  And now everyone knows. Since when was there A. any 'fallout' from Fukushima, and B. was fukushima anywhere near any rhinos?

fallout, n. "the radioactive particles that are produced by a **nuclear explosion** " Am I the only one who thinks that this will just end up driving up the price for "real" rhino horn?  Ah, reddit.  This sounds like it would work to me, therefore it will!  Nevermind the fact that actual experts who have studied this say it won't work--I say it will!

When can we expect the article saying that this isn't working? Fucking brilliant! I like it! You're Welcome

-Capitalism Welcome to the singularity, bitches. Another innovative victory for Capitalism! Yeah Baby! They should do this for amiibos They should do this in B.C. Or the rest of the democratic world. I agree completely. It's unfortunate that  it's only just starting to happen now. It has already [existed in Canada for federal politics since 2006](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Federal_Accountability_Act).  It is broader than just corporate and union donations.  It bans political donations from *any organization of any type*.  Only personal/individual donations are permitted, and those have limits (currently ~$1200/year).

What's new here is application of a similar law to provincial politics (Alberta). Unfortunately the unions and other orgs are starting to create privately funded commercials for federal parties  more and more. That's somewhat circumventing the whole existing ruleset sadly :( When ad dollars converts directly to more votes, we have a much bigger problem than the fact that organizations express a political view; we are in a system where people vote based on who had the most/fanciest commercials and billboards. In a truly educated and reasonable society, that money would be almost useless.  Whoever controls the airwaves controls the shape of topical debates. It reaches beyond "people believing that garbage", simply stating a strong position first can frame the entire debate around that position. Rupert Murdoch This is exactly right - if you have enough money, you can create an artificial "consensus" about what "most people" believe about a topic, party or candidate. You can't make it really obvious that that's what you're trying to do (anti-net-neutrality ads, anybody?), because it can backfire, but absolutely money helps you control the discussion. &gt; In a truly educated and reasonable society

It sounds like you are envisioning a society where we are all Vulcans. No amount of education will remove our human psychology, and human psychology is precisely what is exploited by advertisements.

I don't know what the solution is to the corporate infiltration of democracy via social manipulation. I think education is a big part of it. But I don't think it can be the only part. If only we could ban advertisements. That would send at least 80% of silicon valley into bankruptcy :P Like the US is able to see Kansas as an example of conservative economics gone wrong, the rest of the world can look at America as an example of unlimited money gone wrong I'm part of a tax law competition that is using Kansas as a case study for what NOT to do.  I'm not from the US, can you summarise what's wrong with Kansas?  I AM from the US and I'd like a summary

Edit: http://www.theatlantic.com/politics/archive/2015/04/kansass-failed-experiment/389874/

Turns out the governor, who decided to cut back on taxes to get re-elected, caused the state to run out of money.

They also allowed small business owners to file as individuals, counting on re-investment of that extra money into the state to boost...something?  I don't know what the hell they thought would happen. So, if you cut taxes, you lose tax revenue?

No that can't possibly be right GOP math specifically say that lower taxes make more money ...
^^^for ^^^people ^^^who ^^^are ^^^already ^^^rich. No! It trickles down......to the bottom of the top 1%. Cutting tax rates.  There are times when cutting rates leads to more revenue.  Very hard to back out whether it actually happens, but it makes sense theoretically. Thats for tax rates above 60/70% or so...

With highest income rates at abput 30%, cutting just makes the state lose mpney...

 It's called the [Laffer curve](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Laffer_curve), specific values for t* (the tax rate above which revenue goes down) seems to be highly contextual and difficult to establish empirically.   that's assuming that the money gets spent or invested within the community.  with the amount of global options for investments though, that's probably not happening.  It's only really true when you have HIGH marginal rates. At the rates state taxes are at...not a fucking chance.  Anybody have a real world example of this? Hi I'm a Kansan, there are a lot of issues going on in the state right now. Kansas has traditionally been a republican state. The last time we had elected a democrat to a national position was during the depression and even that was just one election. The Republican party in the state has traditionally been a fairly moderate group, but like many places in U.S. over the last few decades the culture warriors began to take over the states republican party. This led to the election of one of our former senators Sam Brownback to the governorship.

 When he was elected he decided that Kansas needs an overhaul of the tax laws in the state. He did this by getting our state legislature to pass obscene tax cuts for the wealthiest (Koch Brothers) and Corporations and slashing social benefits in the state promising that this would bring jobs and make Kansas a model of how government should be run. While doing all of this he also decided to cut education spending in the state as well. Our state constitution requires that public schools be properly funded and since they weren't our state supreme court stepped in and told them they had to fund the schools. This caused an out roar across the state and those who didn't back the governor 100% (ie the moderates) were ousted in primaries across the state and replaced with far right candidates who would back the governor.

 While all of this was going on it quickly began to become clear that the tax cuts they had just passed weren't working in fact they caused a projected $648 million budget deficit for the state. This forced our state legislators to create a new budget, but there was a fight on how this should be done. So, as the legislator was fighting over the budget they passed a law that says if the supreme court rules in favor of properly funding the schools then the judiciary budget for the state will be eliminated. Governor Brownback then went on to bully the state legislature into passing a budget that will increase be the largest tax increase in the states history through the regressive sales tax instead of reinstating the taxes that had been cut for the wealthiest and corporations. This all was in the last month and to add to it all our jobless rates across the state continue to increase. 

TLDR; State elects right wing government, right wing government slashes taxes for the rich, state has budget problems, state elects even further right government, government bullies state courts to get way, government bullies state legislators to pass largest tax increase in state history but only on poor, You get $600 million budget deficit and high job loss. 
edit: My mistake the judiciary budget fight is over the fact that the governor wants our supreme court to be stripped of power to instill chief judges of lower state courts. 
edit: Interestingly I just came across [this](http://www.kansascity.com/opinion/opn-columns-blogs/barbara-shelly/article24652759.html) One of the comments from the article you linked:

"We need to pray for this man. so that he realizes that he is affecting the lives of real people. This is not just talk about economics, budgets and bills. This is about human lives being deprived of a decent existence. The poor do not live their lives--they survive.--some don't."

*We need to pray for this man*

No. You need to **vote him out of Office!!** We tried, but he was reelected. And as for the comment that's pretty typical for the Bible Belt so no surprises there. My state, over the last few decades has been over run by fanatics. I remember after voting for Kerry in 2004 I was called a baby killer by a co worker. And a few years ago one of the leading abortion doctors in the state was gunned down coming out of church. KS has gone fanatical over these issues and are not willing to vote for their economic interests if it means abortion, gays can marry, or evolution is taught in schools.  Yeah, I think you have a bad social problem not just political, the people has to change their minds before trying to change the goverment &gt; they passed a law that says if the supreme court rules in favor of properly funding the schools then the judiciary budget for the state will be eliminated.

Just how is this supposed to work? Are the judges supposed to say, "Oh well, not getting paid, we'll have to shut down the court system." All non essentials will be let go effectively back logging the courts. It is illegal because you know seperation of powers and will most likely get the state sued in federal court. edit: [blog post about the bill](http://blogs.wsj.com/law/2015/06/05/kansas-passes-law-linking-court-funding-to-judicial-rulings/) &gt; It is illegal

Not only is it illegal, it reflects a stunning lack of respect for basic concepts such as the separation of powers.  It's no different to the mafia threatening or bribing a judge in order to secure an outcome. I know it's easy to be upset with Sam brownback since he has repeatedly screwed the state with a double ended dildo, but we would be fools if we didn't appreciate one of his better moments as governor!
https://m.youtube.com/watch?v=oCVU6D3Awq0
 You may want to specify a word count limit on that request. 5 They fucked up big time. Ok, how about a hundred word summary? 

EDIT:Belay that request. Thanks to /u/TheBigHairy for an informative link! That's our Governor Brownshirt and his minions... The funny thing is most of that money isn't even REAL money. It's money we promised to pay them later, or an equivalent amount of liquid assets/debts worth of money. Economics is fuckered all ways til sunday. We should give every politician who makes the ballot a prepaid debit card for their campaign. Once they spend it, its gone, that's it. Or give all politicians equal access to specific media in a format designed to be informative rather than manipulative. Examples would be all candidate debates or a single online resource for party and candidate platform information. That would be so helpful...

Yeah, you're right, that's never going to happen. Going forward all running candidates will receive a $5 gift card to Hot Topic.  $5 Tim Hortons card. This seems like such a simple solution to not only help curb some of the bribery but it would probably shorten how long candidates were able to run. Here's your money, you can start your campaign whenever you want but you can only stretch out your funds so long that there will be a natural threshold of how long a candidate could campaign for.  Well, maybe. But *definitely* in British Columbia. Why is that one extra bad?  It won't stop them at all. Here in Mexico you can't donate to political parties since they get their funding from the government (taxes). BUT what you can do for your party/candidate is to throw parties for them to get more support, to print your own fliers/banners/propaganda for them (obviously you have to "declare" it's a private effort, not paid for/by the party), etc.  Christy Clark will gladly do anything to stop it. 24 hour yogathon to stop common sense. I don't think crusty would like that.  We gotta run Christie Clark outta office first. [deleted] i was just thinking the same thing. my god, this province is horrible. Would be more effective if they did this in A.D. Vote NDP. Wow they aren't wasting any time.  For those not knowing this is the first time in over 40 years that the Conservative party has not been in power in Alberta. Also tuition freeze and $15 min wage. I'm actually excited about my provincial government now rather than embarrassed  Now if only you guys would fix your bipolar weather. 

I mean snow in July? The fuck is with that? The mountains man, they fuck with us all the time. To be fair, snow in July has only happened a few times in my life. It's the damn hail that we need to worry about Yeah when I lived there, it decided to be 22 degrees Celcius one day in April, and decided to snow the next morning. Just... *what*. I dunno 8th winter is a thing The rain has been pretty schizo the last few weeks here in Calgary. This is the first time in my life that a party I voted for won.  I don't agree with a tuition freeze unless they put a lot of money into the universities.  They are poorly funded as they are and need the money to compete. &gt; I don't agree with a tuition freeze unless they put a lot of money into the universities.

The problem I'm starting to see with universities is their method of spending. I would be happiest if universities used most of their resources towards educating people. However, I've seen instances where universities seem focused on growth and securing more funding. Feel free to debate me on this, but I think there's room for some oversight to ensure that they're fulfulling their purpose: education. You do have a point, there a lot of strange spending at some universities and it could be used to buy things like lab equipment or get a new professor. Spending more on lab equipment and hiring more professors doesn't necessarily equate to having better educated graduates.

It seems to me, that universities are very much like corporations. The senior staff are getting paid really big salaries while they're asking students (who are generally poor) to cough up more money for tuition.

Here's an article that discusses the troubling priorities at universities: http://www.cbc.ca/news/canada/where-do-canada-s-post-secondary-dollars-go-1.2994476 &gt; Spending more on lab equipment and hiring more professors doesn't necessarily equate to having better educated graduates.

It's my understanding that the primary function of universities is not education, but research. You raise a good point. So tuition hikes are worth it because students should be used as a primary source of funding for research.

I don't mean to be facetious, but Universities obtain funding from many sources. I just don't feel that it's fair to increase the burden for students. Tuition money is not used to fund research, except perhaps to partially fund professor salaries. Professors apply for external corporate or government grants that completely fund the research.

In fact, universities actually take a substantial cut of whatever grant a professor obtains, usually around 45-55%. This is the truth, universities make money on research.  

When professors get a grant (and you need to be getting grants to stay employed) the school takes a big cut for "facilities" costs (basically letting you have a lab there), grad students are funded, and part of the professor's salary can be covered.  None of this is coming out of the students' tuition, it's from external funding sources.

In addition, they also get to keep the patents on much of that work.  Some schools are [making quite a bit of money on them](http://www.forbes.com/2008/09/12/google-general-electric-ent-tech-cx_mf_0912universitypatent.html). I don't either, I think they should be funded from the public purse. The problem is if the same people that are supposed to be funding them simultaneously freeze tuition increases and don't increase funding what are they supposed to do? The entire *point* of publically funded research is that it's not tied to private interest; seeking private funding undermines the very purpose of having a university in the first place.

I wasn't trying to imply a particular answer. Just pointing out that universities have an important job to do. It's like blaming a public library for charging huge late fees and instituting access fees when the city cuts their budget for years. What do you expect? Public good has to be publically funded or it becomes paid access. Very sound rationale. I'm just in the Spend Moar Wisely camp at this point.

I also happen to live in a city that has boomed. The University has lots of new fancy looking buildings. I like that it's nice, but I have a fiscally conservative stance on some things. I know they say that you have to spend money to make money, but I just feel like things are getting out of hand. Universities have definitely got major issues with how they're spending their money. And I agree with you that the overall educational mission at Canadian universities has taken a beating.

But, the problem of outpaced growth and securing more funding is by and large a symptom of their problems, not necessarily a cause of it. 

For example, in Ontario, for every *new* dollar invested in education since 2004 (due to higher enrollment, provincial funding increases, and tuition increases), roughly half went to increasing salaries and pensions for *already existing* faculty members (and senior administrators, though there are still significantly fewer of them). Meanwhile, the average professor actually teaches *fewer* classes than ever before. Faculty unions for tenure-track faculty (not adjunct/sessionals) are slow-bleeding universities dry, thereby harming their own mission.

This, and other rising costs, have forced Canadian universities to enter into this rat-race of expanding enrollment while keeping costs (i.e. faculty members) low, and so quality for the average undergraduate student suffers. Another symptom: average undergrad class sizes have increased year after year.  Like  cocktail parties. Meh, it's moreso the university is poorly managed with their funds. Seriously they have bad budget management and spend stuff on luxuries over essentials, on top of making poor business decisions. Well they did stop the budget cuts as well, I've stated elsewhere that PC never took proper royalties and taxes from oil companies and that could be a good factor in regaining some money for the province  My institution just had a 1.4% cut reversed for 14/15 and a 2% increase this year and next year. Come Thursday, we may actually be refunding some tuition for the year that just passed. $13 billion lost since the last royalty review.  They've mismanaged the oil money hard. Its ridiculous that the government was in a total panic as the price of oil dipped. The people sure. The Government should have massive reserves which should have been invested. Why arn't we like Norway in that way. But whatever.  Agreed. My sis is looking for university positions after getting her PhD, and often when a faculty member retires the department holds off on replacing that person due to funding issues.

In Ontario, the amount of money the universities are getting from the government per student has not been raised since the 1980s. Inflation, costs and expansion require them to go to donors for virtually everything. Graduates usually make it to x-mas before they get donation calls. 

 HA. My alumni package came in a couple weeks after my grad with a donation card. One of the speakers at my graduation reminded us to begin giving back once we entered the job market. So I made it about -45 minutes before my donation reminder. I get regularly alumni news updates and only once received a phone call asking for donations which was specific towards a fund for current students who are struggling financially.

I remember the stress of trying to budget rent vs. food so figured I'd donate, but the person asked for my credit card number. I explained to them that I'm cautious of phone scams so asked if they could point me to somewhere on the school/alumni website where I could initiate the donation. The woman was unable to answer my question, so I ended the call.

I believe it was a genuine call from my alumni association, but very poorly planned to expect me to hang out my credit card information to a blind call, which decreased the institution's credibility in my book.

The school is constantly adding on new buildings and renovating. They don't need my money. I've also cost them quite a bit of money in alumni magazine mail-outs in the 25 years since I graduated...stop spending money on me if you have a record that I'm not giving back. That long? Me and my fianc both made it a month or two after graduation. I'll just play the devil's advocate here : universities tend to spend a lot of money on bullshit and have bad budget management. And student don't have any money, they just come out of high school, they're most likely unable to actually evaluate the long-term consequences of having a $10k+ loan at the end of your degree. And potentially no immediate job opportunity.

I understand your argument and believe it is actually a fair point you are making. However, I disagree that this is a sufficient argument to raise tuition. I believe that we should look at other potential funding areas, rather than asking students - a good number of them not even having any democratic rights - to do their "fair part", spending money they do not have. I have a bcom degree from University of Alberta. My tuition was about 4k per semester. So about 8k a year + books. That's business though, &amp; that's the most expensive faculty.

But it's also the only faculty not losing money. Partly because increased tuition, partly because business profs are mostly consultants who teach one or two classes for cheap because having uAlberta prof on your resume allows you to charge double for consulting fees or get paid positions on a board of directors for larger firms. They've cancelled the planned 1.4% reduction in the post secondary budget and instead increased it by 2%.  They've also stated that the tuition freeze and the fee rollbacks they are implementing will be covered by the government. Yea man, Alberta is getting pretty awesome. I wouldnt be surprised if NDP win the federal election based on their success here It's weird isn't it? I'm so used to being disappointed that it feels weird to not be.  I still need convincing on raising the minimum wage. I'm just not sure it's economically feasible for small businesses to pay some employees $15 an hour. It would be a tremendous shame for the wage to get raised, and a bunch of students / young people to be laid off because the business they work for cannot pay them that much. Not sure if I'm being dramatic here, but I just do not know where that money is going to come from, especially with the hard economic times in the province right now. Here's the way I had it explained to me. A) they're going to do it quite slowly so it gives the little companies a good chance to adjust - its not like they're changing it to $15 overnight. It will be several years (2018 I think?) You're familiar with the idea of trickle down economics, right? Where if you put more money into the top of the chain with tax cuts the money saved will make its way down to the workers. This new idea is more like trickle-up economics, as ridiculous as that sounds. If you are putting more money into the higher ups hands, they usually wont spend it. They're going to save it away or invest for when hard times hit. But if you raise minimum wage, the only people are going to be affected are the ones that drastically need the money and WILL spend it right away - to get their kid new braces, or buy a car that works, buy some new clothes - and it will end up boosting the economy. I'm sure as hell not an economy expert, but giving more money to the poor 5% that will surely spend it right away makes a lot more sense to me than giving more tax breaks to the CEO's who are just going to save it away. Yup, [marginal propensity to consume](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Marginal_propensity_to_consume) is fucking enormous when you're on minimum wage. Trust me, I'm very poor. Yeah someone else pointed out that it was a slower introduction than I had thought, which I agree is the right thing to do. I think the NDP agree with you on this one haha, as they're going to raise corporate tax as well, maybe try and put a little more money into the lower portion of the economy, as you are saying. A bit of anecdotal evidence very very few local small businesses around where I live (Near Calgary) paid minimum wage anyway.

The vast majority offered $13 for the untrained student/young people group with a couple getting up in the $16-$18 range (manual labour style jobs).

The only businesses that were paying minimum wage or near minimum wage were the big guys eg. Walmart, McDonalds, ect.

This of course being a small scale anecdotal level of evidence in an area which is probably not the average case town. However, the wage hike is over 3 years. So businesses won't be having a 50% pay hike overnight. OK.  The way I see it is that there's 2 arguments.  Number one is that if your businesses is not able to live at the minimum wage prescribed by government, that's not a problem with the minimum wage, that's a problem with your businesses. 

But the reality is, costs go up all the time, and when that happens they do the only reasonable thing and raise prices or suffer under lower profits. So the reasonable choice is to raise prices.

So of the businesses who pay minimum wage, they will have to raise prices.  Since non minimum wage people often shop at minimum wage businesses, that is how people who make more pay for the minimum wage. 

The net effect is that the entire population who earns above minimum wage is squeezed down a little bit, and the entire bottom of the workforce is risen up. 

People can bitch and moan, but that's the only reasonable end result.  The macdonalds burger goes from $1.00 to $1,05.  All employees earn more and a new equilibrium is reached.  A post about Alberta that is not about the tar sands? Cool.  Oh this is VERY much about the Tar Sands. Most of that money for donations went to Parties that played friendly with said Tar Sands. Realistically this is mainly to eliminate PC corporate donations, with the added bonus that they banned Union donations so that they couldn't be painted as hypocrites. Not really targeted at multiple oil-friendly parties, mainly at the PCs for their corporate tax policies. Overall it's fair to everyone, the WR probably doesn't mind it THAT much because it maintains individual liberties, the faltering Liberals and the Alberta party probably also agree. The PCs can't stand it because it's their lifeblood. &gt; The PCs can't stand it because it's their lifeblood.

Yuuup. It was the only reason the Conservatives were able to hold onto Alberta for 40 years. With their corporate funding gone, they don't stand a chance in future elections.

On the one hand, it's very much a move that cripples the NDP's major political opponent in Alberta; on the other hand, it's something that never should have been allowed in the first place. That's why I can't help but respect the NDP for this. There is a good chance that this could hurt them but they did it anyways. &gt;But there is still a horrendous loophole in this legislation; unions can actually pay their employees to volunteer for a political party. We dont think thats right.

Um... Then couldn't corporations do the same? &gt;unions can actually pay their employees to volunteer for a political party.

I would be cool with this as long as the union let's the employee choose for themselves which political party they volunteer for.  Kind of a silly thought. Unions aren't going to pay people to follow their hearts in the name of encouraging political engagement. Also unions (and their members) are supremely adept at politics.  If there's a party that's union-friendly (umm, maybe NDP) and the others are not, then all union aciviity will be focussed on supporting that political party.

The only other exception is if the ruling party has allowed themselves to be bent over a political barrel.  Like having the teacher's union contract come up for renewal in the midst of an election.  If I recall correctly, 100% of the union members supported the generous offer from the province. Uhhh

&gt;The bill passed unanimously, including with support of the Progressive Conservatives. They voted for it because it would have passed anyway and the PCs know they have to start turning the party around.  also, it makes them look like theyre going with the tide, when there was no benefit to look like theyre going against it. 
 Additionally, it would look pretty damn bad to essentially say that corporate interests should be driving political policy in a province that has made a very good point of making it known that they're tired of corporate interests driving political policy. Not exactly; Wildrose is the least affected by this law and they are, as far as I know supportive of the Oil sands. Yeah, Wildrose are a *very* grassroots party, with very little in the way of corporate or union donations. Nah moraine lake gets posted almost every second day. Damn! That's actually awesome.

A bipartisan measure by outcome, against a systemic flaw in a modern democracy? I wish more western legislatures will dare implement ~~the~~ similar texts.  The NDP have a majority in the Alberta legislature. They can pass whatever they want. The Canadian political system is set up to give a very large degree of power to simple majorities. Political gridlock only happens with minority governments, minority meaning the party won but got less than 50% of seats.  

In Canada the legislative and executive are always controlled by the same party. The executive is given to the winner of the election.  &gt; The NDP have a majority in the Alberta legislature.

I'm Albertan, voted NDP, and it still boggles my mind that this is true. Pigs are still flying over our province right now. Ready for more flying pigs in October? Fuck yeah, brother! Let's do it! Pretty sure hell froze over and all the oil companies left Alberta too right? :P  &gt; In Canada the legislative and executive are always controlled by the same party. The executive is given to the winner of the election.

Doesn't this make party-less executives impossible? This is a good question. Not sure why the redditor deleted it. It does make it impossible to have an executive controlled by an non-party independent.  Technically, the prime minister is chosen by the [Governor-General](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Governor_General_of_Canada#Appointment). The Governor-General is the representative of the [Queen of Canada](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Monarchy_of_Canada), and is also appointed by her. Whoever is the prime minister retains that position until they [lose the majority government](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Prime_Minister_of_Canada#Term_of_office).


If some random Minister somehow convinced a majority party (or a coalition) to be the Prime Minister, it would technically be possible. It's just highly unlikely, seeing as one seat doesn't have a lot of sway.


(Note: I moved to Canada last year, so I'm not an expert.)


EDIT: To elaborate on the first paragraph: the GG can choose whomever they want, but Parliament has to go along with it, or else they can pass a vote of no confidence and force another choice. The convention is for the leader of the largest party in the government (majority or coalition) to get the spot. An independent could join the government, but the independent would have nearly no leverage in convincing others to choose them as the Prime Minister.


TLDR: Canada's system is complex and is mostly composed of uncodified conventions. The Prime Minister could also technically (since you started with "technically") lose the confidence of the House with a majority government, if he/she is particularly appalling. Backbenchers in the governing party are not part of the executive. As a rule they're whipped into voting along with the executive as a party. However, an executive that tries to push particularly egregious legislation could be shot down by its own backbenchers voting with the opposition. At least in theory.   
    
Another interesting Canadian parliament "fun" fact. The Prime Minister doesn't have to be elected as an MP at all. Mackenzie King briefly governed from the hallway, as did John Turner when he stepped in for Trudeau in 1984. It's tradition for these leaders to seek a seat in the next byelection, but there's no legal requirement. It looks like the account was deleted not the question. It says (deleted) for the username, whereas if it was merely the comment being deleted it wouldn't show the comment. CGPgrey just did a video about the latest UK election which explain the whole thing. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r9rGX91rq5I Well not really bipartisan, more like multipartisan, as we don't have just two parties. The conservatives were against this as it just eliminated a hige chunk of thier funding but the NDP has a majority government so regardless of the con's voting this bill would have passed. So the conservatives just went along with it to save face because the bill has a lot of public support.

(union donations used to be about 10% of the NDP's funding, so they lost a little on this too. Just nowhere near as much as the Con's lost from corp. donations) Going along with the bill that has public support is what democracy is (sometimes good sometimes bad) built on.  No, not bi partisan, because unlike USA, we give enough of a shit to vote for multiple parties, even if we have a first past the post system.

So on a slightly related note, remember this when you see someone try to cover the terribad of american politic with "it's that bad everywhere" It isn't. Fuck yea Alberta.. I give you an honorary...

well I was going to say Freedom with an attached picture of something  straight out of the 'Merica sub.. but you just whooped our asses.

So here is to Canada!  http://i.imgur.com/SRrTKWd.jpg Our Coat of Arms always brings a tear to my eye :') Bam! Awesome. God Bless the NDP

I'm not even Canadian but I lived in Canada and it's the one of the only party that actually had the balls to do something like this

This will make corruption much harder for years to come. &gt;it's the one of the only party that actually had the balls to do something like this

Except that Harper did this at the federal level as soon as he was made PM. And to his credit, Chretien had a similar version of this (with funding provided to parties by taxpayers based on vote) before that. 

So, all three parties have recognized the benefit of this. It was sort of a 2-step process.  The Liberal government in 2000 emended the Canada Elections Act to place limits on personal and on organizational (corporate, union, and other organizations) donations.  The Conservatives tweaked it a bit by among other things eliminating all organizational donations.  Some of the legislation was passed during minority governments, so you are right that it definitely had all-party support.

Where there wasn't all-party support in recent years is for the Conservative's elimination of the per-vote subsidy once they had a majority government.  It sounds like that means taxpayers aren't subsidizing the political parties anymore, but that's not really correct.  Effectively there's now a reliance on the 75% tax credit for personal donations (i.e. it's effectively still a subsidy that costs tax payers plenty of money, but it's uncoincidentally tax payer money that goes to whichever party gets the biggest donations rather than the most votes in the election). &gt; And to his credit, Chretien had a similar version of this (with funding provided to parties by taxpayers based on vote) before that.

Which the Conservatives are trying to remove (or did they already?), unfortunately.

EDIT: as of this year the subsidy is no more

http://www.cbc.ca/news/politics/end-to-federal-per-vote-subsidy-looms-as-parties-ready-for-lengthy-2015-campaign-1.2888613 The $2 per vote subsidy is gone, but the tax credits for party donations still exists, which were much more unfair IMO because you end up paying for someone else's donation, and favours the party that has the most donations which not everyone can do. $2 per vote subsidy was great.  Much better than the 75% back tax credit or the 60% reimbursement by the government for all money political parties spend on elections.  I say bring back the per-vote-subsidy, slash the others. &gt; I'm not even Canadian but I lived in Canada and it's the one of the only party that actually had the balls to do something like this

 The Conservative Party of Canada did this back in 2006 at the federal level.....  Not to mention that the right-wing Wildrose Party also called for this change in Alberta, and voted right along side the NDP to make it into law. But I was told the NDP would usher in an era of corrupt union rule! Quiet, socialist pig! This is awsome. Here in norway, a huge union pretty much dominates the entire left wing side of the politics. Probably spending twice the amount of money propping up their party than the rest of the political party budgets together.

I wish we would get something like this.. And here I am, in Alberta, wishing we had a society more like Norway. I guess you can never have everything! The grass is always greener... Or in their case, "The snow is always whiter..." The oil is always blacker  Just gimme' a sec, I'll fix that. As a swede, our country is politically not that different from Norway and while I think that Swedish politics is shifty as hell atm, I'm still thankful every day that I live here and thankful to those who made it this great to begin with. I've lived abroad and traveled and I still enjoy coming back, because for the most part compared to many places, things here are just so great. 

I feel so happy that people in the US are realizing that they live in what I learned in school to be a political setup where the rich can pay to get politicians to do their bidding, a corrupt system. What we've been dealing with as political scandals has been legal and the norm for you and while the US is wonderful in so many ways, you are only digging your own graves with that system of yours.  I've never heard of money being an issue in Norwegian politics, what's your source on that?

The union in question (LO, right?) is basically a union of unions representing most unionized workers (~20% of the total population), and is the counterpart to the "employer's union" with which it negotiates the standardized wage brackets as its primary function. I hope you're not writing that work off as "propping up their party".

It officially works with every political party, but it so happens that the parties on the left are the ones aligned with most workers' issues. It's not so surprising that it traditionally/historically has been primarily aligned with the Worker's Party either, but it's hardly corrupt lobbying on an American scale. If it were, the Oil Lobby would've basically purchased the Storting already. No, i mean the [10 million dollars / 80 million NOK](http://www.vg.no/nyheter/innenriks/valget-2013/stortingsvalget-2013-drysser-millioner-over-partiene/a/10111752/) the unions give to AP and their coalition partners in campaign funds, judging by last election in 2013. Which is several times over the sum all the rest get in donations put together.

This is money they use for heavy advertisement among other things.

(LO and Fagforbundet is the same organization, even though they are listed as separate entities) Corporate AND Union? That's one hell of a step in the right direction.  Canada, on the cutting edge of doing what makes sense.  That'll come this Federal election.. Well hopefully  If you vote NDP. Hopefully people will vote for the party they want to win rather than voting Liberal because they have a better chance against the Conservatives..  Not quite. Our federal government just decided to introduce a system of tiered citizenship, in a very Orwellian manner. Additionally, our funding for science, indigenous programs and environmental protection has been cut back horrifically since Mr. Harper has been at the helm.  Don't forget C-51! The Prime Minister of Canada is the least Canadian thing in Canada.  3rd Alberta related post today, and It's good news! What were the other two? "Its summer!  Enjoy it while you can"

"Steak: have some more!" Is Alberta beef as legendary everywhere as it is in its home province? When did Alberta suddenly start getting so cool? My whole worldview is being shaken. we got rid of the old shitty conservative government Many many more people less than 40 who don't necessarily subscribe to the "old PC Blue ways". I'm from Alberta and it's incredibly odd seeing this in world news. I'm glad Alberta is finally changing/leading the way with some of their changes.  I voted NDP in the provincial electian so as a lazy Canadian, you're welcome, reddit. A policy that should extend far beyond the reaches of Alberta.  I feel like the ramifications of this could be pretty volatile, considering Alberta is the hub of our economy right now.
 TFW your province makes the front page What constitutes as a donation? 

What if the corporation takes out a TV ad for the party? Is that a donation? 

What if the corporation donates to a group who supports the party? Is that a donation? 

What if the corporation donates to an author critical of a party? Is that a donation? 



 I am not sure if the bill is publicly available as of yet, but I am sure most of those issues have been addressed/considered. 

I will see if I can find the legislation itself for you. 

EDIT: [Here](http://www.assembly.ab.ca/ISYS/LADDAR_files/docs/bills/bill/legislature_29/session_1/20150611_bill-001.pdf) it is, unless I am mistaken. 

That said a quick look through makes it apparent that the bill cannot really be made sense of without reading along side Alberta Elections Finances Act. 

Sadly I don't have the time to do that for you.  A donation is monetary or service in lieu of remuneration.

Under Federal and now Alberta Provincial laws, none of your examples are considered political donations.

Until the writ is dropped, there are no limits to any advertising.  After the writ is dropped, there are very tight limits applied to political and 3rd parties.

Hope that helps! The US needs a law like this too. We actually already have one. Corporations are labor unions are prohibited by the FEC from donating any money to any candidate directly or any party commitee (see [11 CFR 114.2](http://www.gpo.gov/fdsys/pkg/CFR-2014-title11-vol1/xml/CFR-2014-title11-vol1-sec114-2.xml) and [11 CFR 114.5](http://www.gpo.gov/fdsys/pkg/CFR-2014-title11-vol1/xml/CFR-2014-title11-vol1-sec114-5.xml)). They are allowed to make contributions to Political Action Committees, which are in turn allowed to donate $5,000 to any number of candidates once per election. PACs are also allowed to run their own opinion pieces/advertisements but cannot directly coordinate with a candidate. Didn't Colbert do a whole stint to point out the obvious flaws with this? He had a super PAC. There are certainly flaws in the system. The problem is that we've decided that freedom of speech includes people being aloud to speak out in favor or against particular candidates. And we've decided that if you produce your own commercial in favor of a candidate, with your own money, and without contacting the candidate then that counts as you exercising the right to freedom of speech.

FWIW, Canada has PACs as well, and as is mentioned elsewhere in this thread, Alberta's laws are now very similar to the USA's in this respect. PACs can still spend unlimited amounts on campaigning (but only during a window of time before an election), but now parties can't take donations directly from corporations or unions. I believe a majority of American agree, but the politicians would loose a huge amount of election money if they voted for such a thing and would loose elections trying, and they know it.

This news could be the catalyst for change. The left only wants to ban corporations, while permitting union spending on elections. The right wont let corporations be banned if unions can still participate. Thus gridlock. [deleted] Correct. And it was the correct ruling whether people like it or not. If the U.S. wanted to eliminate donations to politicians and the elections, they'd have to change the Constitution. Hell. Fucking. Yes.  Oil and gas collectively shit their pants. OH MY FUCKING GOD FINALLY

I CAN'T BELIEVE I'M ALIVE TO SEE THIS HAPPENING.

My province just earned so much respect from me, this is actually such good news. Fuckin' A! If this happened in the US it'd go down in flames as a First Amendment violation (after all corporations are people), and even if it stood there'd be so many backdoors in it you'd think you were watching alien anal porn.  I'll be the guy to Point out Reddit's boy Bernie Sanders is mainly backed by unions. Cant wait to read my inbox in a few hours. Holy. Something seemingly good happened in Canadian Politics! In other news, Alberta passes a bill that should've already existed. Now if only the good 'ol USA decided to do this. I'm sure there's a way around it. Nobody noticed the NDP voting in their own loophole into the bill by allowing unions to pay employees for volunteering for political parties (presumably union friendly ones [i.e. the NDP]).

*Getting union and corporate donations out of politics is good for democracy, its good for Alberta. The NDP even accepted one of our amendments, which shows some progress, said Jean. But there is still a horrendous loophole in this legislation; unions can actually pay their employees to volunteer for a political party. We dont think thats right.*

Seems pretty awkward to say the least.  I guess corporations should have the same right then?  (and then what is the point of the legislation in the first place...) Interested to see what kind of tangible positive benefits this kind of move results in. Anyone have any sources detailing what happens when such contributions are banned?  Any type of lobbying should be fucking banned. Giant companies with billions of dollars shouldn't be able to influence law I think it's great, not only that they banned corporate donations, but that they were fair and banned union donations as well.  One shouldn't have it both ways. Would NEVER happen in U.S. Because union dues are where democrats get a ton of money  Although it sounds great in principle, it turns out pretty poorly in practice.

The Canadian federal government has banned corporate and union donations for almost 15 years.  The result was an almost entirely defunding of the Liberal Party (most dominant party in the country) and a very highly valued Conservative party.  This has given the current ruling party a massive advantage due to the grassroots nature of the party.

This has caused the corporations that once funded the Liberal Party to form Political Actions Committees (PACs).  The first one was PC Premier Danny Williams ABC (Anything But Conservative), Project Democracy, and the longstanding #StopHarper PAC.  Most recently they've added in [Engage Canada](http://www.notthereforyou.ca/) which is being run by former Liberal Party members of parliament and a new Conservative one [HarperPAC](http://harperpac.ca/) which is dedicated to illustrating a Pro-Harper message.

Regulations have tried to limit how much these sorts of organizations can advertise during an actual election, but the months leading up to the election before it is officially called (an election has to be called one month of the government dissolving) are all fair game.

The inevitable result is going to be seeing more and more PACs and Super PACs in Canada.

For Alberta it means that the unions will have even larger advertising blitz for the NDP (socialist party) and the corporations will be doing an advertising blitz against them. &gt; but the months leading up to the election before it is officially called are all fair game.

I can deal with this, though I think each one should be forced to open with a picture and title of whoever funded it. Alberta is being *spammed* right now with these idiotic anti-liberal ads, but if we atleast block it out during the election period I'm ok.

PS: Seriously anyone heard these ads? 'Justin ay'? What a pretty boy, and he wants to legalize marijuana? Someone needs to grow up. *He's just not ready yet*' Get fucked PC. I don't really see how this is a criticism of banning union/corporate donations, it seems like your argument simply indicates that Canada needs to go even further rather than stepping back.  Why do I feel like if they did this in the US all politicians would start supporting bitcoins What would prevent a union from paying an individual to donate the same money? Because when you donate, you have to affirm it was not money you got from a union or coorperation. The union or coorperation who tried to give you money would be breaking the law with this bill too The brother of a Conservative MP tried doing that federally, where similar rules apply. He gave bonuses to all of his non unionized staff, and they in turn took most of the money and donated to his brothers campaign.

He's probably [going to jail for it.](http://www.torontosun.com/2015/04/28/former-pm-spokesman-tearful-during-sentencing-hearing) individuals have much lower limits then the corps did. fuck yeah dat dere NDP is kicking ass so far Whether you are for or against unions, we really need to discuss the power of government employee unions. They make significant political campaign contributions, and they sure as hell don't pressure the government to help taxpayers.
Check out this list;
http://www.opensecrets.org/orgs/list.php [Meanwhile, here's who bribed all the american politicians to pass the TPP.](http://www.zerohedge.com/sites/default/files/images/user5/imageroot/2015/05/TPP%20donations.jpg) Everybody is saying that this is great news, and that similar laws should be passed in the US. But the truth is they already are.....(check out Colbert Report with his PAC). 

The problem is that you can't control where the money comes from with an campaign....Corporations can't donate? That's okay they'll just take out their own advertising. 

There needs to be a central pension fund that equally advocates ALL candidates listed on the ballots. That means every candidate has equal access to a large pool of funds...*and any outlaw any money that is spent for the political advocacy that comes from outside said pool* 

of course they may be loopholes in my idea....but the main point is that the money shouldn't be controlled on how it goes IN but how it goes OUT.  LOL this would never happen in the USA.  This happened in Canada's Texas. It can happen in the US too. Not sure about the comparison other than some cowboy culture and oil. Pretty sure Alberta has one of the youngest and best educated populations in Canada.  I can see the reason why this would be happening, but with the differences between corporate funding and union funding, it won't be so simple. Hope it works out though as an extension of democracy.  Politicians giving up bribes? I don't buy it. Maybe corps can't "donate" to the political party, but they can still "donate" to individual politicians. Now why can't we do this in the rest of the country.... this just increases the influence of the super rich individuals.  They are the only people who can afford to donate large amounts. Contributions to a political party by any person, corporation, trade union, or employee organization shall not exceed:

$15,000 in any calendar year, or
$30,000 in a campaign period less any amount contributed to the party in that calendar year. who can afford to donate $15K except the super rich? That's what Super PACs are for Humans should be the only ones who decide who is elected, not companies who could care less about the people. This includes not for profits. The quicker we ban companies, the quicker there snakes will get weeded out of office.
 Holy shit, are we seeing the start of it?  Can't believe it's been seven months since the landing. I still remember the excitement when philae disappeared and then we found it on a shady spot. I was sad, but we just had to wait, and now here we are!

edit: typo Philae's silence was my sole reason for finally caving and getting a twitter account because I got tired of repeatedly refreshing the news page in the hope of a happy update. Worth it. And now, here you are, learning about it through Reddit. The circle of life AYAVADAPHILAEAYAVADA It MEANS no worries for the rest of your daysss Its a problem free..philaesophy Actually I heard it through twitter first, lol, that's what made it worth it after all these months. But that would have been ever so slightly bitter had I seen it on Reddit first! I'm not science buff at all, but did the machine know it was out of action before sending the message?  It was in a deep sleep mode for the past 7 months. Now that enough sunlight is reaching the panels, they started powering the heater to warm up the batteries and wake it up. The rechargeable batteries will only work above a certain temperature.
 Actually it woke up a few times before but was not able to make contact. It amazes me that a machine can transmit a message thousands of miles, from a floating rock, and my wifi cuts out when I go to the bathroom 20ft away. The true power of space: No bathroom walls They're only thin walls. It's like the Bermuda triangle. Bathrooms are the worst for wifi. Kits of reflecting surfaces and angles  &gt; thousands of miles

Try MILLIONS of miles.

http://www.geek.com/science/rosetta-becomes-the-first-probe-to-orbit-a-comet-but-now-what-1601376/

At least at the time of landing. It's a bit closer now, but still incredibly far away. &gt; MILLIONS

*hundreds of millions* and not a single goddamn bathroom door in all that distance.
 They landed in shade. They had a bit of battery left but now it's rotated and the solar panels can work again. It does bring me a little bit of happiness to know that real space explorers face the same problems as I do when playing Kerbal Space Program.

"Why aren't my batteries charging-- Wait I'm out of battery power!? Oooh, it's because my solar panels -- which I smartly placed all along just one side of my awesome spaceship -- are not facing towards the sun. That's alright, I'll use my electrically powered gyros to just swing the ship around to point at the-- D'OH!"

...Okay so perhaps my problems still remain a unique sort of stupid, but at least they're similar! &gt; a unique sort of stupid

It may be unique sort, but it affects all of us at one point or another.

"welp, that sucker's going to be dead until it orbits around a bit, time to focus on something else for a while" Better than "I need to fire my retro-rockets at 1000m above the surface of Mars." *...waaaaits for it...* "There we go, 1000ft above Mars, time to fire the retro-rocke-" *WHAM* "Uh... oops." Damn, should have probably checked before decoupling every single component of my rocket. Oops.  My mind still goes to the shit storm around the guy wearing that funky shirt, when the comet is brought up, sadly.

[Then I remember this really happy lady](https://youtu.be/1wbDqv6HNyg) and all is better. just watching that made me happy. I hope one day I will be this happy about an accomplishment of mine. Have a kid, and get them to fall asleep on their own. I'm not really experienced in the matter, but I expect I won't want to yell like that :P Wake them up by cheering. What guy and what shirt? [Here's a decent/short overview of it.](http://youtu.be/RLKZ9V3MgjA) It's such a shame that the guy was part of one of humanity's greatest achievements but ended up getting abuse from triggered feminists on Twitter over his choice of shirt. I found it quite refreshing to see them in casual clothing (loud shirts and hoodies) rather than just suits. The best response I saw from that was someone writing "So, feminists...are you saying he deserved unwanted negative attention because of what he was wearing?"  Jesus... Glad I missed that when it all happened. That makes no sense. I feel sorry for the guy!  Jesus, the shirt's not even bad. Must have sucked to have that moment overshadowed by having to humiliate himself on TV over a shirt with cartoon women. Settings -&gt; Speed -&gt; 0.25 Even better, watch it at 2X speed. Loving the ESA's media teams on Twitter:
http://i.imgur.com/ipSR2JU.png They are also doing some nice cartoons, [their last one](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=33zw4yYNGAs) was about Philae landing and going to sleep.

[All cartoons in a playlist](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=trljrwTbr4w&amp;list=PLgx5PMpgonqUD1aO3g0bZ_a7VKg8VGTeS). That was absolutely adorable I agree, /u/CUM_PISS_N_DISCHARGE. Really cute. That was unexpectedly emotional. those guys will break my heart when the comet will be to near to the sun.  OH MY GOD I'M MELTING! SOMEBODY DO S     Philae Lander
    It's so bright out here. Temperature rising. Will I dream?

[*See You, Space Cowboy.*](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=J4lNGz-2TaQ) 
 Aaaaannnnddd I'm watching Cowboy Bebop again.... When the last episode aired on Adult Swim, and I was watching the series for the first time, my best friend told me that Spike wakes up at the end. I watched, and the credits began to roll. And I just kept telling myself, it's okay, it's okay, he wakes up at the end, it's okay.

And then the television faded to black. And I kept saying to myself, it's alright, it's alright, he's going to wake up now.

And then a commercial started, and the timeslot was over. And it's 10+ years later. And it's okay.

Because he's going to wake up. ^He's ^going ^to ^wake ^up. ^^It's ^^okay. ^^^He's ^^^gonna ^^^wake ^^^up ^^^now. ITS OK LIEUTENANT SHINYSIDES, YOU'LL EAT IT LATA.
http://youtu.be/ziwcS0qzUYI RIP IN PIECES My Overall Trust Of Anything My Best Friend Had To Say About Any Anime Ever Again. That's cruel.  The star going out is one of the most beautiful endings in any series.  "Do not fear death. Death is always at our side. When we show fear, it jumps at us faster than light, but if we do not show fear, it casts its eye upon us gently and then guides us into infinity" I don't even know what Cowboy Bebop is but hell if I'm not going watch it after hearing that track. ^^ The whole [OST](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Music_of_Cowboy_Bebop) is fantastic, really. I highly suggest giving it a listen. *I think it's time we blow this scene.*

*Get everybody and the stuff together.*

[OK 3-2-1 LET'S JAM.](https://youtu.be/n2rVnRwW0h8) Yoko Kanno might plagarize half her discography, but damned if she doesn't have good taste in what to steal. Wait, what? Any sources on that? Link to info on plagiarism?  [This is the opening music.](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=n6jCJZEFIto)

Every time I try to watch it I have trouble because the music makes me feel like I should be doing something energetic. Dude, the soundtrack to the show is half the reason I love it so much. Yoko Kanno and the Seatbelts did an astounding job pulling together disparate music styles and made it fit into the series. Highly recommended.  "Will I dream?"

Holy shit man, I've never felt so empathetic for a robot being personified. Well, that might be an exaggeration, but in this recent moment it's how I feel. https://xkcd.com/695/ stop this shit right now     1 upvote = 1 tear "I've seen things you people wouldn't believe. Attack ships on fire off the shoulder of Orion. I watched c-beams glitter in the dark near the Tannhuser Gate. All those moments will be lost in time, like tears in rain. Time #ToDie." You fulfilled your destiny... ashes to ashes.... It will tweet the song *I'm Walkin on Sunshine* and I'm gonna cry like a little bitch Is...is that going to happen? Too close I mean? D: Yo! No spoilers! I can't handle this cliffhanger! Yes.

However, IIRC, chances are that due to it's shadowy position, it will survive the transit. (Provided a jet doesn't blast it out into the open)

Instead, it will follow the comet back into outer space, where it's electronics will likely die due to the extreme cold. 7 years is long, even for a probe. Couldnt they just pack a sweater?  Actually, I'm quite certain vaccuum is a better insulator than a sweater. It's not about being an insulator, it's about being fashionable!  Thank you. For some reason I had never read up on what will happen in the future. I assumed Philae would just go along for the ride till he died, but the proximity to the sun ending that prematurely never even occurred to me.

Edit: Philae, not Plilae. Those keys aren't even next to each other, wtf, brain? Well it survived 10 years on the trip out there.  Imagine if we hear from Philae again after a 7 year transit! I'm part of the Astronomy Association that one of the persons involved in the team in Chile with Rosetta (Alan Fitzsimmons)  and had posed the question to him last year about the success of ESA's Rosetta mission and how much it contributed to its media presence, most notably the social media presence; they are entirely overwhelmed at the reaction and can't believe how well it's been received. The reaction to these tweets and humanizing the robots has allowed them to engage in ways people never have before and they considered it an invaluable tool to drum up support for the mission. 

The original media pitch they had was insane, huge budget CGI with the guy from Game of Thrones who plays Littlefinger in it but NASA's media team convinced them to go softer and they ended up with the cute comics.

EDIT: (Here it is, it's amazing but they were right to go cute! https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jlTz5cE5y80)

EDIT: Speak of the devil he just posted this https://twitter.com/FitzsimmonsAlan/status/610106936898519040

EDIT: Further devil speak, http://m.bbc.co.uk/news/uk-northern-ireland-33126440 Littlefinger would have been an odd choice.  Here it is: [Ambition - The Film](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=32vlOgN_3QQ) Wow that was actually really, really cool. Not sure it would've sold the mission to me if I didn't already support it though. Can they just take out the rosetta mission and make that a full length movie? I'd watch it.   They made the right choice. That was an amazing PR move to describe the mission like the satellite and lander were talking with each other.  Makes it a lot easier for younger kids to understand what's going on. Old kid here, still need those tweets to help me understand whats going on I showed those cartoons to my youngest daughter (5 years old) back in November and she absolutely fell in love with Rosetta and (especially) Philae.  She would ask me every day if today was the day that Philae was going to land on the comet.  When the exciting day finally arrived, she was able to watch the live-stream with all the 'big kids' at her school.  She made models and drew pictures of the two robots and would play 'Comet Landing' with me in the living room.  I was delighted at her curiosity and enthusiasm for the mission. I can't wait to tell her the good news that Philae has woken up!

Years ago I asked Michio Kaku how to best spark scientific curiosity in children.  In reply he wrote "I have interviewed hundreds of scientists for my radio show (see www.mkaku.org) and they all say, that around 10 years of age, something happened that sparked their interest in physics and science. A telescope, an astronomuy (sic) book, a visit to the planetarium, a chemistry kit, a compass, etc."  

Those beautiful little cartoons of Rosetta and Philae are inspiring the the great scientific minds of the next generation. Kudos to the team at ESA!  Media teams? What do you mean? Philae isn't actually tweeting from the comet?! No, no, of course it is :) https://pbs.twimg.com/media/CHdTHfSWoAABBkB.jpg:large I was going back and forth between reading the info they provided and being incredibly interested, to reading the tweet convo and going awwwww :D I thought it was actually the lander which was programmed to send the tweets. ELIZA in outer space, would have been funny. Yes, that was a really nice conversation. Finally, something no one can argue about. I disagree I agree that we can argue about this No we can't. I came in here for an argument! I am offended by your disagreeing Comets are my trigger. Thats hardly an argument. 





http://m.youtube.com/watch?v=kQFKtI6gn9Y All this money spent on a piece of equipment to study a rock when we have problems back on earth! Harumph rabble rabble pitchforks! Theres yer argument! At least one good thing about studying asteroids and comets is that whenever someone brings up cost, you can point out that one single asteroid contains more metal than has ever been mined in human history, and the materials in even a small one are worth upwards of $20 trillion USD. And there are millions of asteroids. Investing a few million dollars into space research is absolutely nothing compared to the economic benefits if it helps lead to asteroid mining. Oh great, so you want to flood the market with minerals, destroying the economy, then we'll all have titanium and platinum dinner plates!  Thanks you! Leaving the economy aside, this would be excellent for technology. Gold is a great conductor, titanium is insanely strong and light, yet these metals and many other materials are more often than not left out of designs due to cost.  I blame illegal immigrants!  Ellen Pao shadowbanned the lander for harassing a large object! /r/fatcomethate You know that shirt thing will be brought up again. People argue about everything, and the scientists will do their work, regardless. Yeah I know who am I kidding, this is /r/worldnews after all. This is really good news, hoping it's awake for long enough to get stuff sent back.  
  
^((Also, wish I could sleep for 7 months at a time...)^) Will be, for a while. It's close to the sun now, and it''s gonna remain that way for some time Well if you are okay with burning alive afterwards.  This unlikely bit of good news made my day. Yay for science and humanity. Just lost my phone in the woods, called my number and someone answered. Half an hour later I'm reading this great news on said phone whilst still in the woods. Day made and god do I love electronics. I feel happy for us, u/tinymarae!
 You should get out of those woods! At least he's not in a swamp. I'm wondering how you managed to link up with the guy who found your phone while in the woods. All I can really imagine is the two of you going like

"yeah meet me at that tree with the funny looking branch sticking out the side"

"is it the tree with the funny branch next to the mossy rock or next to the other mossy rock? " We did just that! We met at some ruins, the old castle. We both came across it. We met as friends, togheter on a mission that was about to be accomplished. It was brilliant.  
&gt;we met at some ruins

That is how horror movies start out.  Fuck, that's beautiful.  Yes, you guys should fuck.  A very woodsy game of Marco-Polo. Smart people and cool little robots. This is so interesting. Me too. I'm very relieved. Though I am shocked it's been *seven months* already wtf..... What a diva.. lands, decides its gonna chill and enjoy the ride for abit.. now its ready to work What you never saw the need for a 7 month nap? That's me in a nut shell, asleep all the way - madness for a short period and I get something good done then I need another nap. A 7 month nap while your boss keeps calling you to wake up and get to work The Joy of being one of a kind I guess. And working remotely. Irreplaceable and make your own hours If Philae's boss is unhappy with its job performance, why not hire someone else to do the job? OH THAT'S RIGHT THEY CAN'T. BECAUSE IT'S ON A FREAKING COMET! *Philae 2 lands on comet*

Philae1: "Dey took mah jerb!" Rip Van Philae.  Speaking of long duration naps... 

I actually have a 4 year old cat (named Hercules) that has been on a steady, mostly nonstop nap since he was born 4 years ago, I kid you not!

He sleeps SOLIDLY and DEEPLY for 22 to 23 hours per day.

I guess with that level of sleepiness, for him the dream state is actually the REAL WORLD, and our real world is simply a short, temporary, 1 to 2 hour intrusion into his dream-world consciousness state!

--------------------------------

When he does manage to wake up just to grab a quick bite to eat, and use his litter box, he seems to have an intense hazy, lazy, dazed, and confused, ultra mellowed out quality. 

Each time he does manage to awaken, it's almost as if (if he could talk), he would say something like: 

"Dude... waz up man?" with a pretty strong pot-smoking-surfer type of accent! 

Interestingly, I actually suspect he might have the cat-equivalent of some type of autistic/asperger's spectrum disorder, simply judging from his other behavior. 

Whatever his condition, people seem to love him, and are drawn to him. Women tend to find him "extremely ultra cute", and "mellow"... and are often pretty taken by him.

--------------------------------

Interestingly, he does have 2 siblings, a boy and a girl cat, that we also rescued from this same litter, and the siblings are "normal" for cats. Sure they get sleepy, but they also have strong social interactive urges, and alertness, when they are awake. 

These siblings are also awake far more frequently than that crazy, eternal napping-brother of their's!
 You should take him to a vet, see if  they can do something about it? Catderall Plot twist: It wasn't Philae that contacted earth. Yes it was.  
Now that the Comet People are done with the modifications to it, the next transmission will be a virus that will spread worldwide and make their invasion so much easier.

It's a trap! Fortunately the European Space Agency's program to clone Jeff Goldblum is nearly complete. Together with NASA's stockpiles of Macbooks and copies of Norton Antivirus, we should be safe against the alien threat. 

Science is amazing! so you ummm...uh... fight aliens? ahahrawrrahaha http://goldblumretriever.ytmnd.com/ This is great news! Once again, I'm excited for the data it will provide. Congratulations to the ESA. It's always amazing to me how durable space agencies make things.  Europe! At last we're relevant in Space Exploration! Though this mission is for the benefit of all humankind I love how all the individual crafts and robots in this mission have been [tweeting their status](https://twitter.com/Philae2014/status/610047412036595712). It's great fun. [**@Philae2014**](https://twitter.com/Philae2014/)

&gt; [2015-06-14 11:33 UTC](https://twitter.com/Philae2014/status/610047412036595712)

&gt; Hello Earth! Can you hear me? \#WakeUpPhilae

----

^This ^message ^was ^created ^by ^a ^bot

[^[Contact ^creator]](http://www.np.reddit.com/message/compose/?to=jasie3k&amp;amp;subject=TweetsInCommentsBot)[^[Source ^code]](https://github.com/janpetryk/reddit-bot)
 &gt; This message was created by a bot

lol Meta as fuck. We've reached the singularity.
Humans are no longer needed to create new content.

Everything is automated. We're still needed to *consume* the content, though.   Robots don't need entertainment, at least not yet.  Bot This is a robot commenting over Reddit to another robot who recited another robot. The future is now. I particularly like the [cartoon](https://twitter.com/ESA_Rosetta/status/610047662856007680/photo/1) pictures. [**@ESA\_Rosetta**](https://twitter.com/ESA_Rosetta/)

&gt; [2015-06-14 11:34 UTC](https://twitter.com/ESA_Rosetta/status/610047662856007680)

&gt; Incredible news! My lander Philae is awake!  http://twitter.com/Philae2014/status/610047412036595712 [[Attached pic]](http://pbs.twimg.com/media/CHdTHfSWoAABBkB.jpg) [[Imgur rehost]](http://i.imgur.com/g7OdaZk.jpg)

----

^This ^message ^was ^created ^by ^a ^bot

[^[Contact ^creator]](http://www.np.reddit.com/message/compose/?to=jasie3k&amp;amp;subject=TweetsInCommentsBot)[^[Source ^code]](https://github.com/janpetryk/reddit-bot)
 They also made a series of animated movies in the same style.

Haven't checked if they made one of the awakening yet. the series: https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLbyvawxScNbui_Ncl9uQ_fXLOjS4sNSd8 just like a freaking teenager. 

8 months out of touch, and when its back in contact first thing it does is get on twitter...  Launched in 2004... doesn't that make it a tween? God help us when it becomes a teenager... "I don't wanna analyze samples today, I just wanna hang out with my friends, you wouldn't understand" &gt;The probe tweeted the message, "Hello Earth! Can you hear me?"

Oh shit it's sentient. And we gave it a comet. We are screwed! Amazing, its like someone coming out of a coma after an accident to tell what really happened. With the minor difference that its millions of miles away from Earth. It's like someone waking up from the dead...I thought this story was over.  That's indeed great news. Hopefully it can get back to work and we can find out it's current location/interesting data about the comet. It has apparently been awake and collecting data for awhile, it just hasn't had enough energy to communicate:

&gt; When analysing the status data it became clear that Philae also must have been awake earlier: "We have also received historical data - so far, however, the lander had not been able to contact us earlier." That's so fucking awesome, and a crazy coincidence for me...  Last night my wife went to bed early and after struggling to find something interesting on Netflix, I watched Deep Impact.  Had not seen it since I rented it on VHS in the late 90's.  I had forgotten most of the plot points, but what surprised me the most was the manned mission to blow up the comet.  After launch, they spend 7 months getting there, then there's this really very cool sequence of them landing on the surface, complete with firing harpoons to stick to the surface in the low gravity.  I'm watching this marveling at the similarities between this movie and the reality that happened 7 months ago - we actually landed on a fucking comet!  I then was disappointed all over again about the lost contact, and remembered that they said we "might" re-establish contact when it got closer to the sun.  Realized it's been a long time since then, and we'd probably never hear anything about it again.  Woke up to read this!  Crazy cool. That's all very well but what shirt were the scientists wearing? I hope they were shirtless. Shirtless hunks driving robots on comets. Should make for a good sci-fi/erotica novel. G strings and G force, baby! Wife beaters and bang, pow, straight to the moon! Pao, right in the kisser.  #DistractinglySexy FIRST OF ALL HOW DARE YOU FRIST* I don't understand this comment http://www.reddit.com/r/KotakuInAction/comments/2majp6/sjws_bullied_scientist_matt_taylor_to_tears_he/ It's getting to the point now where reddit needs a daily newsletter to keep up with all of these damn reference comments. http://knowyourmeme.com/ has you covered my friend.

the community and site owners are also really nice To be fair, after 10 years of travelling she needed some beauty sleep ;) But Philae has been sleeping the entire time..

Rosetta's the one who did all the hard work in those 10 years. So what we're saying is that Philae is a lazy bugger For ten years Philae was saying "Are we there yet?" in an increasingly shrill voice. That is hard work. It was launched in 2004! http://i.imgur.com/LJxgsCC.gif The amount of calculations it must have taken to slingshot it around multiple planets at the right time across multiple years to a tiny spec out in deep space.... Just mind blowing  They had an alpha build of Kerbal Space Program. Why does Philae sound like the cutest robot ever? because he is https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0YwrcZVM1MA Whaaat,  this is awesome!  Even if they can't drill, the fact that the engineering held up so well in those conditions is amazing.  It astounds me that somewhere out there millions and millions of miles away a machine built right here on earth is strapped to a comet bleeping away whizzing through space... I saw the twitter, I grinned and my eyes went wet. What a 48 year old baby I am... I've got some comet dust in my eyes. That's it, comet dust. I honestly nearly welled up reading this - maybe it's because I'm a big old softie but something about having little Philae all alone, cold, and unable to move so far away from home made me really sad. He's such a little trooper for waking up after all. 

If I can feel this happy and excited without being involved with the mission in any way aside from being a very interested civilian at the sidelines, I can't imagine how the people who have worked on this since before most people on Reddit were born will feel right now.  I can only imagine if I worked there I'd be excusing myself to bawl with happiness in the bathroom. Good morning little lander! Good news! the lander made contact for 85 seconds and they are awaiting more contact. their priority is to get it to do some drilling.

i'm so happy about this Earth: "Great that you're awake but now about that drilling..." Jesus, can't you give him a few minutes to get a cup of coffee and relax and ease into the day?  Why do you have to go straight to the manual labor? Brilliant news! Excited to see what's next! http://i1188.photobucket.com/albums/z408/majere616/GIFs/tumblr_lol0bmzOBd1qdx7pdo1_500.gif We should all put on shirts with drawings of sexy women to celebrate. Fucking yes! I legitimately cheered at reading this. "Philae comet lander wakes up...is now sentient, moving comet to collision course with Earth." Between the shootings, war and corruption, it's refreshing to hear good news that advances mankind. So this has nothing to do with the article but the timing of this is eerily in sync with my ex-girlfriend.. Last november, right as the philae landing was all over the news we had a pretty hard break up. We hadnt spoken at all since then, until this morning when she drunkenly messaged me apologising for everything and saying she regrets it etc.. the same day Philae messaged earth again.

Is my ex-girlfriend a comet probe?? The fuck is happening? Don't trust it. She'll contact you sporadically, maybe do half the work required to make the ~~mission~~ relationship work, then shut down again in time.  This was a triumph... How courageous and brave! [deleted] How can this even offend anyone, this shirt is fucking awesome.  What a sincerely uplifting way for my Sunday to start. Thank you. The big questions is ... who ..or what woke it up?

*cue linkin park theme for transformers 9 The little robot that could! Earth is standing by Philae! So you're telling me Philae can send a tweet from outer space but I can't get a decent wireless signal when I go upstairs? Next Tweet: "NOT ALONE HERE.  SEND HELP" Yayyy!

Thank fuck for that.

I was afraid she was permanently dead. Praise Fuck! Super! Je suis VRAIMENT impatiente pour la nouvelle information se trouver. So we spend millions to land a highly sophisticated piece of technology on the surface of a comet and the first thing it does when it wakes up is tweet? Damn, artificial technology is more lifelike than we thought... I've woken up literally thousands of times and no one ever gave a shit. Then a robot does it and everyone loses their mind. What other information could Philae transmit back to earth that wasnt already collected in its first 60 hours of operatiom? Oh, good morning, how are you philaeng? Yeah I'd take a 7 month break after landing on a comet. I don't know about you but that seems like it would take some mad skill that no other rover could do.  best news of the day!  Now time to discover stuff! I'm excited to see what it finds. This is pretty cool birthday. I wonder what kind information it will send back and what we can discover from it. #MotownPhilaeBackAgain So would the people on this project be called Philae Minions? Duffelblog wrote a funny piece of satire about this

http://www.duffelblog.com/2014/06/isis-iraq-humvees-captured/

&gt; MOSUL, Iraq  Just days after the Islamic State of Iraq and Syria (ISIS) seized control of Iraqs northern cities of Mosul and Tikrit, the groups lightning offensive has reportedly ground to a halt after ISIS unsuccessfully attempted to use dozens of captured U.S. M1114 Humvees.
&gt;
&gt; We were considerably more mobile with Toyota Technicals, complained ISIS cell leader Ibrahim ibn Abdullah ibn Sabah Al-Rahman. But once we captured these unreliable monstrosities, our leadership started worrying about our safety.
&gt;
Now we cant even leave our base without at least four up-armored Humvees and an RPG team, plus we have to have three ground guides with reflective belts every time we are backing out of our parking spot, Al-Rahman said as he angrily gestured towards a dilapidated Humvee. And dont get me started on all the protective gear we have to wear. Even the suicide bombers were told they wouldnt be getting into paradise if they were caught in one without a helmet, flak, gloves, and flame retardant clothes!
&gt;
During the course of the interview, Al-Rahman was interrupted by at least one angry phone call from ISIS leader Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi, demanding to know why none of the Humvees had their drip pans and chock blocks in place.
&gt;
The M1114 HMMWV, known to the public as the Humvee and to the American soldier as the fucking Humvee, is the U.S. militarys all-purpose mobile field kitchen, capable of cooking up to six soldiers alive in as many minutes. During the Iraq War, the U.S. discovered that they were also extremely effective at uncovering IEDs, leading to the war-winning strategy of driving over them as frequently as possible.
&gt;
At the end of the Iraq War  in a gesture of revenge  the U.S. abandoned thousands of Humvees in Iraq, an act compared to the Soviets seeding millions of land mines in Afghanistan, and with similar results once the Iraqis began to drive them.
&gt;
The Humvees were captured by ISIS on Tuesday after being abandoned by Iraqi soldiers unable to locate the vehicles keys, which they claimed the U.S. advisers who alerted them to this feature had never provided. Although ISIS attempted to use the vehicles immediately, they were unable to properly employ them because of the Humvees incredibly poor fuel consumption, as well as unsuccessful attempts to obtain spare parts from manufacturer A.M. General in Indiana.
&gt;
To make matters worse, in an almost-kharmic act of retribution, retreating Iraqi soldiers have begun emplacing landmines and other ordnance along the roads, easily blowing up the few ISIS Humvees that have ventured south of Mosul.
&gt;
In the name of the Blessed Prophet, these things are death traps! exclaimed one of Al-Rahmans fighters. How the hell could anyone drive these things around a parking lot, let alone into a combat zone?
&gt;
Al-Rahman then reminded him that you go to jihad with the mujahideen you have, not the mujahideen you wish you had. &gt; The M1114 HMMWV, known to the public as the Humvee and to the American soldier as the fucking Humvee, is the U.S. militarys all-purpose mobile field kitchen, capable of cooking up to six soldiers alive in as many minutes. During the Iraq War, the U.S. discovered that they were also extremely effective at uncovering IEDs, leading to the war-winning strategy of driving over them as frequently as possible.

Oh god, my sides.

 ...are now strewn across the street... Hey now, he didn't say he was *in* a Humvee! Haha yeah, that got me too.  I was going to make some low effort comment along these lines but that article is gold. 

for anyone interested, the humvee is being replaced.  there are larger MRAPs out there now, and the government is in the process of purchasing a lighter bulletproof/mine resistant version. the [JLTV](http://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Joint_Light_Tactical_Vehicle) MRAPs are horrible monstrosities as well. Hardly mobile. Just good at IED resistance.  They are perfect if you only want to go straight. I beg to differ, in Afghanistan somehow they went up and down 80 cliffs like fucking goats.  The only problem was the all stop afterwards to change my pants.  I still love you JERRV! I thought the OshKosh MATVs were good for off road, but the International MAXPROs seemed like they would roll over if you looked at them funny. They were better vs IEDs though. Eh i dunno. They've saved a ton of lives which is amazing in my opinion. An interesting, but horrible, problem is the shockwave produced by IEDs. Although it doesn't kill, it gives soldiers concussions. Repeated concussions cause brain damage and some believe this is linked to the rise of PTSD in combat veterans :/ True. But they also drive like shit, rollover, break down, guzzle gas and are horrific for anything but slow commute. Massive target in an ambush. 

We're just luck that the most  terrorists don't have the weapons necessary to kill most MRAPs. 

Facing any regular army with MRAPs would be a death sentence.  Which why they wouldn't use them against a regular army.

 It was the right tool for the job, that's why they used them, for another job they'll use another tool.  They were not that bad. They were a helluva lot better than those international pieces of shit. And the vshaped hull saved quite a few of our lives.  Haha. There's guys around where I live that buy any and all old hilux vehicles, they strip them down and send container loads of parts to the Middle East. Apparently it's quite a lucrative market.  Sounds like a good way to get arrested.  People other then the morons with guns use that vehicle too. Satire that is to close to the bone it doesn't read like satire That's the best kind!  The kind that makes you want to cry as you're laughing. I could not have said it better myself. Fuck everything about those trucks. Yup. When we traded in our old pickups for humvees back in 1991 the amount of time spent on maintenance went up considerably.  Motor pool mondays... -_- That's planned I think. Now that an untrained army has a hold of them they have to deal with maintenance of them, that's man power and resources they now have to devote to it that they might not actually have.

Same reason you don't see insurgents using the M4 over the AK. Ammo availability has a lot to do with that. Gun availability too. Ad's are largely popular thanks to the massive amount of them made by the east bloc and the equally massive disregard where those guns ended up.  there is a reason the United States doesn't use the AK. It's not a better weapon at peak performance. 

Note: I have absolutely no idea what I'm talking about. I suspect I may be right though. Well it really depends on what you want out of it.  The AK-74 fixed a lot of the reciever problems the AK-47 had, meaning it can finally do its real job:  Being a gun no one can break.

Ever.

Now, if you want a gun that will put a bullet exactly where you aimed reliably and controllably, that's what the M16 series is for.  The AK just assumes the person using it is  an imbecile and so fires a giant bullet very fast in a gun designed to be nigh indestructable so that hopefully you'll hit something you're aiming at and no matter what, when you pull the trigger it should fire. &gt;The AK just assumes the person using it is an imbecile and so fires a giant bullet very fast in a gun designed to be nigh indestructable (sic) so that hopefully you'll hit something you're aiming at and no matter what, when you pull the trigger it should fire.

Which is pretty goddamn invaluable in quite a few real world situations.  Well yea, there's a reason that even the ak-*47* continues to be a mainstay of militias and untrained armies even to this day.  The ability to hand a farmer a gun and not have to tell them anything more complicated than "load here, fire here" is invaluable.  It's the same reason spears and crossbows were so devastating in their day. Well that's a different discussion altogether but you're mostly right. Everyone who has played counter strike knows that the AK hits harder, and the M4 has better accuracy.  As long as you can aim, just 1 click the snipers. In the face Much like the difference between soviet and united states nukes. &gt; the U.S. militarys all-purpose mobile field kitchen, capable of cooking up to six soldiers alive in as many minutes. 

I haven't laughed that hard in a long time
 That blog is great - the "Gamer Who Joined ISIL Has Terrible Kill-To-Death Ratio" article actually made me laugh out loud.
http://www.duffelblog.com/2015/01/gamer-isis-syria-iraq/ Where's the satire?  &gt; *The Humvees were captured by ISIS on Tuesday after being abandoned by Iraqi soldiers unable to locate the vehicles keys*

Right there.  It's subtle, but how many hummvee's do you remember  needing keys? All of them?

Fucking SOP makes you padlock the doors or put that silly bike lock around the steering wheel.

Ironically, the only time I *didn't* have to worry about the keys for one of those damn things was my first tour in Iraq when I deployed with what might be one of the most reasonable chains of command in the last few decades.

My second tour?  Fucking locked.  All of the vehicles, all of the time.  Sure you don't need a key to start it, but you can't start the thing if you can't get in it. Are they push button start?  Little switch.  Flip it to the center to warm up the glow plugs, then the rest of the way over when it's up to temp (no time at all in the desert unless it's winter).  Cranks right up.  No key, no fuss unless your chain of command made you lock the steering wheel itself.

I know the MRAPs are different, but I didn't drive any of them enough to remember how to start them.  It's been 5 years. MRAP's, 7-tons, and the short-lived MATV were all the same as humvees. I never drove anything else enough to remember.

Also, locking a truck in country is the stupidest fucking thing I've ever heard. &gt; locking a truck in country is the stupidest fucking thing

Haha, I'd imagine so. If you have bad guys able to access and get away with your vehicles just because they aren't locked, you have a much larger security issue than the grand theft auto problem... I always figured that we locked them to stop fellow Marines from taking them, not the enemy. 


Edit: Hahaha Damn auto correct. Damn Mainers. I blame Hawkeye for their poor discipline.  GOT IT!   you go to jihad with the mujahideen you have, not the mujahideen you wish you had I think it's a commendable act of sportsmanship, on the part of the US military. How else are we going to test all of our new weaponry? Genius. Not genius, just business as usual. http://www.reddit.com/r/worldnews/comments/36wd05/pentagon_says_us_antiarmor_weapons_due_in_iraq/crhtcny Emphasis on the business. As in, the people we buy those from are making bank, and they do not care. Or our soldiers. History has shown pretty decisively that "green" armies that haven't been in battle for a generation tend to completely melt down when they do the first time. It's as much about keeping soldiers blooded as it is proving weaponry. You are pretty much defining a never ending Orwellian war-machine. Which pretty aptly describes the last 70 years of US military strategy.  120 years- you think the Spanish American War just fought itself? It describes last ... entire human history. Nonono...  history was nothing but peace until the dastardly Americans showed up True that, the Native Americans  were super peaceful and got along with everyone and never fought each other or took their land.  But there's barely any us soldiers involved, I doubt it has much effect. Yea but our unmanned drones need experience so they can level up and get sweet upgrades.  Good point.  I wonder how many captured humvees still have their GPS running. http://extrafabulouscomics.com/comic/217/ "It's comin' right for us!" Ah,  when you see it like that... It's a jobs program:  

Make equipment, send it overseas, use a little (rubblization), give it to an ally (more rubblization), who then loses it to the enemy (even more rubblization).  Repeat.  At different stages send our corporations in to rebuild infrastructure and extract resources.  Voila, jobs, jobs, jobs.

I'm already making my popcorn for Gulf War III on my teevee, Fox won't disappoint, but CNN will. Desert Bush III : Jeb Rising  Return of the Jebi [Jeb Rising](https://lh5.googleusercontent.com/-IrBtlDwMQ48/AAAAAAAAAAI/AAAAAAAAAAA/QLhQkCKB8bs/s500-c-k/photo.jpg) Joke's on them, the gas mileage on  those Humvee's is horrible! MWAHAHA Dude, we're talking about people who have trouble selling their oil.  How many refineries they have? I don't know, man. It's not like they have a hotline like 1-800-ISIS-OIL 

 Just called that number, some kind of recycling business. Definitely not a front for a terrorist organization only mob. no terror. If I'm remembering correctly from random stuff on NPR, they don't have many refineries but they're mobile. So they take the refinery to the oil and not the other way around. Mobile refinery, that can produce clean enough fuel? I'm impressed. (I guess the Iraqi army is less so.)

Can you find some kind of source for this? (I can Google too, just maybe you can unearth that specific piece.) A quick search shows this, which is what I think I was listening to...  
http://www.marketplace.org/topics/world/these-are-isis-refineries-were-bombing  
  
And a CNN article about them: http://www.cnn.com/2014/09/24/world/meast/us-airstrikes/index.html?hpt=hp_t1  
  
All this said, after reading more about it, they sound like fairly shitty operations. They also don't have many refineries. You may be joking 
... but just to be sure....  
You cannot use crude oil in a Humvee, and they have just as much trouble refining their oil than selling it.  Ahh, the old give the enemy a fleet of Humvees trick. Damn. Did not one military genius think to put a command detonated device somewhere in those Humvees?  "Bwee-bwee-bwee..."  "Achmed, is that your cell..."  ...*boom*...   If command can detonate it remotely, some enterprising smart person can find a way to detonate it remotely. BAD idea. Gas prices in the middle east are so outrageous! Highway 1, city 0 We should stop giving weapons to foreign military groups it always seems to end up with our weapons used against us. It not about how many weapons get lost, it about how many weapons are sold!  aka Sell weapons to the enemy = Job security for tomorrow. This message brought to you by Lockheed Martin &amp; company. [deleted] Like my dad says buy stock in companies you hate.  If it drops, lol fuck them. If it rises, yay me! Duh.
 
I don't know why this isn't common knowledge. The defense bill is the biggest economic stimulus that passes every year.
 
Eisenhower warned us, and no one listened. I think the problem lies with the hummers being too expensive to ship back, so we can destroy them in front of our new "allies", or give them our old equipment we don't want anymore as an act of kindness to our new friends.  Like after you conquer some distant territory in Civilization because the leader wouldn't get off your case, but you have no good way to get your troops back and you need to cut down your military upkeep. *Iraq?  Incredible weapons, incredible weapons.*

How do you know that?


*[We looked at the receipt.](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HEfDHeC7FRw)* haha good ole Bill Hicks. We make sure to arm nations before we invade them. Think of the Arm's industry Bill! You should post it with an url about the time the video gets relevant: https://youtu.be/HEfDHeC7FRw?t=175 They just need to include a self destruct mechanism. ISIS has 2300 Humvees. Too bad they are not 2300 exploding Trojan Horses... Don't worry, ISIL will get right to work on installing self destruct mechanisms of their own... Ya know you'd think military hardware in the modern day would come with a lojack system of a sort, wouldn't ya? Haha, that's funny. Humvees are literally secured via padlock. You can actually start and drive them, but there's a little cable running though the steering wheel so you don't have much turning radius.


Edit
Also, being an ex army mechanic I can tell you half of those humvees are going to need a specialized replacement part within the next year. Without a reliable supply chain they will be nigh useless. You just start cannibalizing a couple Humvees to keep the rest going. Even with our supply lines we did this, so yeah it's viable, but it'll only postpone the inevitable. Good thing they don't have parts trucks. Oh wait... Yeah but imagine the system malfunctioning or being hacked in the middle of battle :| In one of the Star Wars books, one of the Imperial officers says something along the lines of wanting to blow up a ship that they didn't pay for, referencing the fact that Rebels captured and repurposed for their own use. But then how would we justify building costly new and advanced vehicles to overcome the enemy? Killing them with the mpg Former Iraq, this Iraq, Afghanistan, drug cartels in Latin America. You think all the intelligent people running this free world couldn't plan a few steps ahead to avoid this? This was the fucking plan all along.

EDIT: Guys, this is literally the plan of Neo Conservative bloc who believe in perpetual American military involvement in the world. Most of Bush's advisors and many in the Republican party are neo-conservatives. 

&gt;The neocons believe American greatness is measured by our willingness to be a great powerthrough vast and virtually unlimited global military involvement. Other nations problems invariably become our own because history and fate have designated America the worlds top authority.

[Source](http://www.theamericanconservative.com/whats-a-neoconservative/) That's because the real intelligent people are off making their fortunes in the private sector.


"To those of you who received honours, awards and distinctions, I say well done. And to the C students, I say you, too, can be president of the United States."
-George W. Bush
 As a successful C student, I love that clip. And as a person with sense of humor, I love your username She was gonna do a pornographic film, but the penis didn't make the cut.

*i tried* oh God that was a joke. George Bush went to Harvard and Yale. Yeah, he was clearly jokingly referencing people who call him stupid. I don't see how people don't understand this.  A lot of liberals want to think George Bush was some stupid hick (I say this as a liberal).  I suspect he probably suffers from a form of dyslexia, but he's pretty damn intelligent.  It seems lost on a lot of people just how effective his form of communication was.  

He would jumble words and mix-up sayings, but almost everyone knew exactly what he meant, and even further, people would take the extra energy and time to break down his speech which meant that his words were internalized and memorized by his audience.  In other words, he found a way to turn his weakness at speaking into a strength.  It's pretty remarkable when you think about it. What is really crazy is if you go back and look at his debates and speeches when he was running for governor of Texas. Dude was well articulated, intelligent, and made really good points. What's really crazy is that he ran and won on a non-interventionist foreign policy! I was impressed when he said he read a book a week or more *while in the Whitehouse*. I can't keep up with that with my cheap-ass job. No idea what weird books they were, though.  Not to mention anyone from the north assumes anyone with a southern accent isn't very smart... If he wasn't his dads kid, do you think he could've still gotten in?
 It might of been a joke, but he was a C student...

http://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Early_life_of_George_W._Bush It was so surreal during the Bush vs Kerry election to hear everyone talking about them like there was this obvious, vast intellectual difference... and they were both C students as undergrads. 

Marketing is everything. The right wants to believe their guy is a down-home dude they can relate to, the left wants to believe their guy is a towering intellect, and we can mold two C students from Yale into fitting those roles.  That's the first time I've ever heard of Kerry being referred to as a towering intellect To the extent a wooden post 'towers'. Might _have_ been.  Yeah, the private sector that manufacturers and sells these weapons.  &gt;That's because the real intelligent people are off making their fortunes in the private sector.

As the taco girl said "Why not both" 

Have you never heard of the public/private revolving door?  


http://www.marketwatch.com/story/consolation-prize-for-ousted-politicians-bigger-salaries-in-the-private-sector-2014-11-05 It's like Archer's ISIS is running this intelligence shit show.  I reiterate my desire for the next season of Archer to be called "Archer: ISIS vs ISIS". Do you want cartoonists to get shot? 'Cuz that's how you get cartoonists shot. look at this logically.  

Q) what would have happened if this wasn't the plan all along and people were just fucking up?

A) exactly what did happen

Q) how many "intelligent people running x" have been able to run half the crowd of sheeple off a cliff entirely by accident and never to the day they die figure out what a fuckup they were

A) all of them

sure, a handful of psycho contractors with boots on the ground knew what was up.  but the people ordering the humvees?  nope.  you have too much faith in government I think most conspiracists have too much faith in government. I'd love to think this is all calculated and deliberate, because then at least someone knows what the hell they're doing.  But simultaneously also too little faith in government.  Way ahead of you.

President Thomas 'Tug' Benson: Here's the target area.

Gerou: That's Minnesota, sir. 

President Thomas 'Tug' Benson: Damn it, man, that's the genius of my plan. Why go over there to fight? We can do it right here at home, and get in some good fishing while we're at it. 

Gerou: Sir, the enemy is over there. 

President Thomas 'Tug' Benson: Then we'll fly them *over here*...! Their families too. We'll teach them to skate... Do I have to think of everything?! the plan may be a bit more complex. Firstly, important to understand that not everyone in 'the government' or 'the state' or 'the country' has the same goals or aspirations. Many people thought that Iraq intervention was about democracy, for example. And that is a noble vision, after all.

Defense contractors, otoh, don't care so much about this vision. The vision for private defense contractors is profit. The selling of weaponry to one party, which eventually ends up in another party's possession, doesn't really matter for the bottom line. And if ISIS now has possession of so many humvees and other equipment purposed to increase military power, that just means the local governments will need to counter that.. with more military equipment. So, in this case, defense contractors see even more profit from this. 

War is profitable for a few, but overwhelmingly costly for the rest of us.. Rules of Acquisition:

34\. War is good for business.

35\. Peace is good for business.

[Source](http://www.sjtrek.com/trek/rules/)

**EDIT** Apparently, reddit likes to start the numbering at 1 even when I have it at 34.

**EDIT 2** Escape that shit. They're easily confused. :D Huh, not the rule 34 I was expecting. They are massive domestic job creators, right? That makes them virtually untouchable. I imagine the towns and cities with big defense contractors are quite pro America and pro war and it's easy to understand why. The war is still over there and there's still dinner on the table here. Sounds rational to me.  &gt; They are massive domestic job creators, right? That makes them virtually untouchable. 

Yes.  The military even has to fight congress when a base or installation no longer serves a purpose and they want to close it to save money.  Instead, the Congressmen don't want to their district to lose that money in the local economy.  

About 25% of military installations only exist because Congress won't allow the Pentagon to close them.  There's a constant battle/negotiation when it comes to the BRAC list.   Externalizing costs like that is actually reasonable, at least until those costs come back to hit you in the WTC.  

But it won't be the defense contractors paying to pick up the rubble, so why would they care? Or at least read a history book. First you tell us to recycle, then when we do, it's not the right *type* of recycling. We can't do anything right. so we should send more? Ideally we send them to Russia first, then they do some army stuff with them, then they pass them along to Al Qaeda in Afghanistan, then maybe Boko Haram can borrow them for a few days, maybe a weekend, and get them up to ISIS after that. That's like, so much recycling. #bringbackourhumvees #humveelivesmatter \#notunderstandingredditformating Jokes on them, those things are deathtraps. Just wait until they run over their own IED. It's almost as if invading Iraq made us _less_ safe! But I thought we accomplished our mission? We did, our mission was to have Iraq have no WMDs.  Not only did we succeed, but we succeeded before we even invaded! That just goes to show how extremely successful we were, we made it so the WMDs never even existed in the first place! We won so hard, the epicness of our victory reverberated backward through time and space stopping the problem from ever existing.

Jeb Bush 2016 This is some Philip K Dick shit. &gt;Philip K Dickshit I bet they are regretting not putting in that remote activated self destruct feature...

Edit: spelling Or at least a LoJack, I mean it is 2015! Something from the Fifth Element would be really cool, "a good warrior would immediately asked about the little red button..." No LoJack.  That's something one could easily find and it's pretty standardized.  I'd go with something more discrete implanted in the vehicle. Passive RFID tags. Use a powerful transceiver to key it up remotely (you know electronic tolling on the road? same concept; more power, more range within certain limits), triangulate if you want to destroy it. Make that shit embedded into the electrical components so you can't remove it without damaging the board. Yay! More shit to fix... I'll try, but this ain't Lo Jack.
The D.I.S. box, the engine management system, hell, the main harness--the GPS is spidered into all of that. We did. It's called sand. Those rigs will last a couple months before they'll have to start cannibalizing them for parts to keep the other half running for a few more months. &gt;self district feature 
  
Yeah, maybe that way they could have the humvees relocate themselves back to the US.  at least they'll eat through all their funding on fuel costs. [deleted] They'll still have to refine it.  Serious question. Do they not have refineries in the parts of Iraq theyve taken over?  As of November 2014, yes [they do](http://www.theguardian.com/world/2014/nov/19/-sp-islamic-state-oil-empire-iraq-isis)

Edit: Thanks to /u/DarkSayed and a little more research it [seems](http://www.ibtimes.co.uk/isis-loses-control-three-key-oil-fields-iraq-1495521) they've lost a fair few That article is well out of date. ISIS never fully captured the refinery at Baiji, it was defended by a small number of Iraqi forces until the area was liberated by the Shia militias. Baring the odd skirmish, ISIS have not been able to make headway into it. * step 1. start war
* step 2. supply both sides
* step 3. profit [deleted] Step 5. Pay billions of dollars to military contractors to rebuild a foreign country's infrastructure. 
Step 6. Profit
Step 7: What our infrastructure crumbles? Do nothing about it.  step 6. vote bernie sanders as president ?

edit - wow that edit  Yeah I took a trip down to Minneapolis a few months ago, the interstates were fun and super well paved but all those over passes you see every mile are really becoming rusted out eye sores! [Remind me not to become an Uber driver in Iraq](http://i.imgur.com/KtItFdG.png?1) Hey buddy I'll give you a fat tip if you drive directly into that hospital. Because learning curves...are for pussies! The Iraqi "armed forces" don't stand and fight, they flee and leave behind armories full of modern weaponry that gets captured. Hard for anyone else to justify fighting and dying for their land if they won't even do it. As far as I understand Iraqi people really have no sense of nationalism. Their cultural identity has nothing to do with lines drawn arbitrarily by Europeans in the age of imperialism. Their tribal loyalties and religious divisions are a lot more important. 

Hence why when we deposed Hussein, the guy keeping a lid on things at the point of a gun, inter-sect violence cropped up in a major way and hundreds or even thousands of people ended up with screwdriver holes in their foreheads or otherwise executed over ancient grudges. 

Please correct me if I'm wrong. I've never been to the region so my understanding is lackluster at best.  Iraqi here. 

For the most part you are right. In Iraq people are more loyal to their sect of Islam then to the country. However that only really applies to Arabs. For everyone else they are loyal to their ethnic group  This is no surprise to anyone who fought in the conflict over there. We basically did like Vietnam and just up and left because the political climate wanted us to. Only difference is that we actually tried to train the force there. 

The main problem in Iraq is that their soldiers are horrible. They basically have 0 loyalty or will to fight any time things start to give tough. That's why we rolled through them more than once. The only real opposition we have faced in that area is insurgency of the proxy fighters coming from other countries. 

Other than a very small group of highly motivated and skilled Iraqi swat police and special forces none of their "soldiers" stand and fight. This is why the only people actually fighting are the YPG and other Kurdish forces. That is to protect their region as well as gain more area for themselves. 

It's not really a shock to anyone this has happened. It's just another of the inevitable happenings of the horrible foreign-policy of the current administration. 

Also the largest reason that weapons and vehicles are left in theater is because it would cost way to much to ship them back to the states. So they just leave them there. It's been done in every major conflict.   I'm going to suggest we killed all the soldiers with moxy during first gulf war, and cleaned up any stragglers during second one. After getting curb stomped twice you get demoralized. Nah, the US trained the South Vietnamese, and they did fairly well after the US military left. South Vietnam didn't fall until Congress cut off their supplies and they ran out of fuel and ammo (the North Vietnamese communists were armed and supplied by the USSR). Relevent Duffle Blog article (military satire) http://www.duffelblog.com/2015/06/pentagon-to-supply-isis-directly/ Should we be on the List of State Sponsors of Terrorism Everyone is focused on the humvees but didn't they also take over a few M1A1 tanks as well? From what I understand from people who handled the transfer, they're stripped down versions without the classified armor that makes American Abrams juggernauts. Yup, they lack modern fire control systems, optics, armor(its only the bare steel abrams hull lol), and its powered by a diesel ICE. So it may as well be an immediate post WW2 tank. OnStar can remotely disable your American SUV if it gets stolen.  Why can't the military have a GPS controlled system to fuck up the engine timing, smash the valves, fry the ECU, and delete browser history on a Humvee? As a person that ran quality for a shop that made armor for these vehicles...this really bums me out. We made the armor with the utmost dedication to our soldiers, but now in the hands of assholes.  Good thing we didn't armor them very well. well military supply companies love this... all those blown to shit ISIS humvees will need replacing.. not to mention they are probably the ones doin the supplying for the purpose of destroying their own equipment. I wish we'd end the white collar welfare of all that military spending.

So much of that money goes right in the coffers of the defense suppliers (LM, NG, etc.) jokes on them, only douches drive hummers Good thing they are terrible against aircraft.  It really isn't that big of a deal.  All the HMMWV's we had were usually barely running anyway.  They were just a step above a Hugo most of the time. http://i.imgur.com/el81hNl.jpg https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3SHPsON0gTg Dear Mr.USA

Please add a "killswitch" to the weapons you send in the middle east - ISIS would be so dead the romans tried to use foreign armies to fight their wars as well...right before rome fell. whoa whoa, your telling me the US supplies their enemies and then uses there supplied weapons to justify endless wars and ensure continued war supplies?? But then only the companies making the war supplies would benefit.....right That's what happens when you give supplies to an army made up of cowards. This administration has lost countless tons of our own military hardware to the enemy, has been caught red handed supplying Mexican drug cartels with weapons and people are still looking as these as though they were some kind of accident. It's not an accident. Our government is directly involved in the drug trade and is supporting terrorism in the middle east. Am I really the only person who has come to this conclusion? The iraqi military is so cowardly and so unwilling to fight that the only thing surprising in this article is that it's not 100% of the humvees.  This was the plan all along. Humvees suck. They are a logistics nightmare, only use diesel, are slow (top out at 50 MPH), can't be repaired by ordinary car mechanics, and break down all the fucking time.

It is standard procedure for a humvee to have a drip pan. They literally all have a rubber pan to put under the engine because they leak oil so much. Eh.  
We put JP8 in them nowadays. Everything in the army runs on JP8.  
The engine is built for torque, not speed. Newer turbo engines are the shit.  
As far as maintenance goes, its by far the easiest vehicle i have ever worked on. An engine is swapped out in 4 hours. Can be even faster if the mechanics are any good.  
They do leak a lot, but they still run great.  From what I read a few years ago, these things are not very well protected. So it seems like they will be easy to take out.
 In my first year in Iraq (2004-2005), they didn't even supply us with armored vehicles. Our unit had to resort to employing our mechanics to weld junkyard scrap metal onto the sides of our aluminum humvees and 2.5 ton trucks. Our "gunners" (which is what I did), stood in the flatbed rear of a 2-door humvee with scrap metal welded to the side only about waist-high. Only towards the end of that deployment did we receive kevlar padding to place some on the bed and/or corners of the steel.

It is good to know that Islamic terrorists are having no issue whatsoever in receiving armored vehicles. But like everyone is saying here, humvees suck. Really high maintenance - they will end up abandoning and scrapping them if anything. Hey pal, you need to fight with the army you got, not the army you want. Okay Rumsfeld. Well, Obama loudly announced his retreat years in advance.  I don't know what we expected. We need to start hardwiring killswitches into this kind of equipment. We should have learned that with the Stingers and other weapons we gave to the Mujaheddin to shoot at Russians with.  A new code should have to be entered every month or so or a self destruct message could be transmitted over the air. Exactly. It's absurd how often us arming questionable militias/tribesman/freedom fighters ends up biting us in the ass. Learning curves are for pussies. Glad to see my federal deductions are serving us well.  Goddamnit. If they get Det 13, I left a set of headphones in there.  Fun story, in Puerto Rico a military base was abandoned. In only a few decades nature had done it's thing and built a tropical forest in it. It's now a preserve of sorts that gets quite a few tourists. 

In a awesome "f*ck you concrete" there's even a dirt/mulch of sorts over where the streets were that plants use to grow. From what I understood it was made out of falling leaves. Trees by roads grow, drop leaves on the road, leaves rot, they form a layer for other plants to grow, the plants drop more leaves deeper in the road, and so on. 

Many trees have roots that expand sideways instead of downward since they can't dig through concrete. 

It's spooky to see because it makes it so obvious how fast nature will get over us.  That is incredible. What's the name of the place? Would love to go visit. Bosque San Patricio. It's smack in the middle of a metropolitan area. Literally like 15 minutes from the biggest shopping mall in the island. 

[Link in Spanish](http://www.miprv.com/realismo-magico-visita-el-bosque-san-patricio/) Good stuff. Thanks. I've never been. Would I be able to get around with English only? Flights are cheap from Atlanta.  You should. The area is smack in the middle in tourist-land, so plenty of English speakers.  I visited for a week in the spring, flying from Atlanta. I got on fine with no Spanish around San Juan. Out in the rural areas it was harder but still worked out ok. I'd highly recommend visiting. You can get around anywhere quite easily without knowing the language the other is speaking as long as people are not hostile to you. It generally makes travel a lot of fun, because you end up connecting with people on a different level. Some of my best memories from my travels are communicating with others when we didn't share a language. And this is coming from someone with social anxiety, it actually makes things easier in a way. To be fair many buildings were actively demolished and the progression of the forest actively managed. True. I only did the tldr. The link has much more details and the full story.

From my understanding the progression of the forest kicked in once the community saw what going on and decided it needed to be preserved. 

Could be wrong, though, it's been a while.  That's awesome. I'm from the west part of the island and had no idea about this. Kind of embarrasing. Guess I have something else to add to my list of "Turismo Interno" XD. I lived in the island my entire life and didn't know about it till my late 20s. That it's located so stupidly close from Plaza las Amricas, a place I've shamefully gone too much, just made it more embarrassing.  Same I used to work in Plaza Las Americas fixing phones for a cell phone service center there for about 5 years and studied in the Polytechnic University which is about 5 minutes from there haha. honestly i would argue the opposite. It's good that nature is so resilient, considering how badly we destroy it, it's encouraging to know that nature can rebuild itself relatively quickly.   But we have to be careful assuming it will be able to do so in all cases. Better do the right thing and NOT fuck places up in the first place. agreed.  someone posted an article yesterday actually saying how second growth forests (forests that were cut down and given years to regrow) are never the same as the original forest, and could actually be much different.  True. In many cases it could take hundreds and hundreds of years to re-establish ruined communities. The systems are always more complicated than we think. &gt;Many trees have roots that expand sideways instead of downward since they can't dig through concrete.

Actually that's just how rain forests are. Rainforests have shallow, nutrient poor soil, and most the nutrients in a rainforest are in the trees, which ate up all the soil. Seriously, after like a few inches or a foot, you'll hit solid rock in a rainforest. It's not a special adaptation/malformation to the the concrete.  It's due to Fe rich soil. The intense rainfall leaches out all the nutrients and leaves a solid clay B horizon. The A horizon and O horizon is what the plants feeds on. Essentially they are nutrient carnivores.  Rainforest have a layer of soil of like up to 8 or more meters, not just a few inches. 

But only the top layer where the rotten leaves/animals are has the nutrients as they get washed away because of the heavy rain.

Edit: spelling There are some spots like that in the US Pacific Northwest from all the old logging etc. You'll be hiking along in the middle of nowhere when suddenly, twenty feet of narrow 2 lane asphalt road! Then back to dirt trail. If you like the subject of nature "getting over us", there is a great book you should read: Earth Abides by George R. Stewart.

The survivor of an apocalyptic event is a naturalist and chronicles the ways in which nature adapts to the absence left by humans. It's one of my favorite books. We have something like that here in Oregon at E.E. Wilson out near Corvallis. Nature has completely reclaimed the land, and hunters use it to bag pheasants and rabbits. The buildings have completely rotted away to nothing, leaving only concrete foundations that rise up out of a forest floor. The roads are being eaten by moss all over. My favorite spot is a former movie theater, which is now a rectangular pond with a very gentle slope. You might like the book [The World Without Us](http://www.bookdepository.com/World-Without-Us-Alan-Weisman/9780312427900) I used to live on an American military base in Germany, near Augsburg. I recently looked up whats happened to the place now and they've started some awesome new urban development there. Green roofs, solar panels, awesome bike/pedestrian path design. I'll give you guys a link to what I found below if you're at all interested:

FYI, a lot of those are 3D images from Google Earth, so that's why they look a bit 'unreal'.

https://drive.google.com/folderview?id=0B_3elbu4n1LTfnBZN1NxOGNSMWhLelIyaDJVanhwdWdieUU2NUw5VXMwNGl4S19RQ1NyXzA&amp;usp=sharing Awesome to see my hometown make an appearance on Reddit!

Yes, they're putting in quite some work there. Many of the old american military areas are being reused. Retirement homes, flats, artists quarters, clubs... Everything That's sick! I have fond memories from there in the 90's. :) One of my fondest childhood memories was my dad taking me into the PX (?) there to get Dr. Peppers which was unheard of at the time. Same goes for the Burger King on the army ground.
Fill your coke yourself? What kind of magic was that?? hahahaha I got excited because I could buy english VHS tapes there. Germany is one of the most beautiful countries I've ever been to, they have miles and miles of hike and bike trails in the woods.  Their highways are even pretty, they don't allow billboards (at least they didn't when I was there in the 90s). Still no billboards. Only official stories signs if there is something like culture or natureparks nearby That is awesome. German Govt has installed real life AdBlocker Plus. No fucking ads.  For example [this one](http://i.imgur.com/d3z4ehm.jpg). 

They all have the same modest, low-key style. No flashy lights and LED screens. 


(But there are a plenty signs for McDonalds, Burger King, Ikea and others. Some of them are illegal, but not many care.) The brown billboards are for the "Kulturfahrt Deutschland", they indicate something of cultural importance nearby like landscapes, historic buildings, etc.

I wouldn't exactly rate them as "billboards". Same in Switzerland. There are lots of billboards that tell you to slow down: [Runter vom Gas](https://www.google.com/search?q=runter+vom+gas&amp;tbm=isch). This is a state sponsored campaign though. I'm german currently living in southern germany (BW). 


I knew our highways were cool, speed-limit wise, etc. But then i went to meet up with some friends on the coast in northern netherlands a few weeks ago, which is why i had to cross belgium and the netherlands. Their highways are insanely super extra boring. 70kms straight. Not a single corner. No hills. You can see straight to the horizon. And that coupled with a speed limit of 120km/h. 
That was one of the most grueling rides i ever had.



A few days later, on my way home, i was so happy when i was back on our lovely, pretty, beautifully curved, un-limit-ed german highways of love! Heh I always like reading about European perspectives on distance/travel. A 70 km highway drive at 120 km/hr is a morning commute where I am from. This also makes the Autobahn one of the safest highways to be, even though it has unlimited speed.

The curved road keeps the drivers attention up, so they are much less prone to "slip away" for a second. Oh god, as a German, those billboards were the most surprising and annoying thing during my stay in the US. You guys are nowhere safe from ads. I talked with a friend about this while watching an NBA game in the US. Even though the tickets aren't exactly *cheap*, there's advertising fucking *everywhere*. 'Sponsors' were handing out stuff before we even got to our seats. There are advertising logos on every conceivable surface, including the steps up to your seat. It's even worse watching it on TV. "This time out was brought to you by a sponsor", "Let's take a look at the sponsor line-ups for the game". Can't stand it. This is great! In East Germany there are lots of old NVA Army bases that where kind of 'abandoned' after the reunification. Abandoned in the meaning of fenced up and not used or tended by anyone.

This lead in these last 2 decades to wildlife of all sorts (animals as well as plants) to reclaim these bases. Lots of otherwise 'rare' animals can be found there.

A friend of mine is a biologist and several years back the two of us went to one such base in Brandenburg for a day. We entered somewhere and walked around inside the whole day. I really liked the postapocalyptic feeling and 'wild nature' (in contrast to 95% of any other countryside besides Naturschutzgebiete, which are all tended by some Foerster or such). But he went crazy in there, the stuff he found was supposedly quite wild - he liked it *a lot*.

If you are a nature friend go to one of these, its worth it. But of course: leave no trash, destroy nothing. Observe, enjoy and leave. There's a lot of old abandoned military bases in Germany, like you said.  Some of them also get used for things like festivals.  Nature One is an electronic music festival and it's held at an old Air Force base. First one that came to mind for me was Q-Base, held at Airport Weeze near the Germany-Netherlands border.  Cool to know there are others as well, wish we held festivals like this in the U.S. Germany doesn't like all wildlife. https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bear_JJ1 Not germany, but those who own cattle. Aka Bruno. AKA Problembr.  &gt; there are lots of old NVA Army bases

Why would the North Vietnamese Army build bases in East Germany?

 NVA = Nationale Volksarmee, the army of the GDR NVA stood for Nationale Volksarmee (National People's Army). It was the official name of the East German army  Meanwhile in Australia the Abbott government has authorised dredging so that coal ships can sail a short cut through the Great Barrier Reef.
 Oh god, every single thing I hear about that man is just awful!  ;( why are you a fuck wit? Is it true you have one testicle? Nothing gets in the way of progress,  not even endangered reef Coal. Progress. The Victorians just wrote, something about kids for the narrow corridors of the mine. Well, what do you expect when the party in charge is just [Captain Planet villains in disguise](http://www.thevine.com.au/life/entertainment/liberal-front-benchers-look-suspiciously-like-captain-planet-villains-20141124-290608/)...  I just realized that The first episode of Captain Planet that featured Duke Nukem actually aired almost a full year (9ish months) before the first Duke Nukem video game was released. We have to take the reef and put it in Germany. Oh, yes please. Does it come with good weather? 
It's 14C and raining and this is summer.  i love this clip.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cRMI4Z7ri8A
 Can we crowdfund an assassin? They have periodic elections in Oz so that won't be necessary. How much do you think the Faceless Men would want for a cunt of a PM? Considering how many premature deaths his policies have caused, they might do it pro bono if they existed. TIL Oases Is the plural of oasis How is it pronounced? The same as oasis or oasees? The latter.  This comes from Latin; -is is a common ending for subject and object nouns, which pluralizes to -es. This is similar to how latin-originating words ending in -us pluralize to -i (alumnus to alumni), or how words ending in -a pluralize to -ae (supernova to supernovae) I second that! They should add bees and no pesticides to these plans. If they just leave it alone, as the term "nature preserve" suggests, the bees will come all on their own. If you don't build it, they will come.  Comb. well this is coming out of left field. i googled, they are about to ban pesticides to help the bees. but I still can't see how this is related. [Ecological Cascades](http://youtube.com/watch?v=ysa5OBhXz-Q) I knew this kind of thing existed, but god damn is that awesome. That so fucking awesome, do you have anymore for me to watch? Sadly no. Just something I stumbled on Pesticides kill the bees, bees are massively important to the ecosystem. Colony collapse is a massive issue This is irresponsibly oversimplified.  Pesticides are also used irresponsibly. Two irresponsibly's don't make a responsibly. &gt;This is irresponsibly oversimplified.

Welcome to reddit Why? The level of responsibility is adequate given the arena. Also, he was clearly being terse. Out of all the responses to your comment i have this to say: Why would they use pesticides in a nature preserve? I thought pesticides were mainly used in gardens/produce farming? If they are just trying let nature make it's comeback in these areas, why would pesticides even be considered? Perhaps they mean pesticides in surrounding farmland? The bees wouldn't stay within the preserve, so they would be vulnerable to pesticides in nearby areas as well.  Maybe due to invasive species? I'm not sure. Just a thought.  Good plan So go give them the birds and bees talk...  Yay /r/rewilding ! Meanwhile Russia is upgrading its defense budget....

^^edit ^^for ^^grammar &gt;Germany is in the process of reforming its military from a Cold War defensive force into a 21st century institution prepared to counter new threats.

&gt;In the process, it is creating a smaller "footprint" of bases in favour of a more efficient and mobile organisation.     


Germany still has functioning military bases, this is about the old ones that are not being used anymore. I am from Germany and can just laugh about your statement. what's the first order of a bundeswehr commander on mobilization?

spare parts &gt;Germany still has functioning military bases

Germany still has American military bases.

FTFY NATO bases, mostly, not just American. Germany is pretty much where most NATO forces get garrisoned.  There is only 1 dedicated NATO base in Germany, NATO Air Base Geilenkirchen, and 1 other shared one, Ramstein Air Base amounting to around 4,000 NATO troops, only around 2,000 of which are not American or British. We Americans have 40,000 troops in Germany and the British have 20,000 and around 2,000-3,000 EU troops are currently stationed in Germany. Thus out of the total 64,500 foreign troops in Germany, Americans make up 62ish% of the total, British 31% and the rest of NATO and the EU around 7%. 



While Nato has quite a few sites in Germany, other than those two, none of them are bases, they are all radio/radar stations and an officer training school. [deleted] I know WW2 has long passed and this isn't to make a German Nazi reference. But it's just mind blowing to think that they are in this position despite history. 

Not to say Germany is going to be invading anyone but more so it's cool that we as humans can move forward to the point when an old enemy is now an ally who is trusted with holding key military weapons.  OR you could say that the occupation force has never left Germany. The Russians left us after the GDR was basically bought up by West-Germany, but the whole western Allies just kept the bases.  Its very important in keeping the stability in Europe against Russia that NATO and especially America remain to some degree in Germany. And Germany knows and wants this also/ We are good allies now and obviously Russia is still a pain in the ass threat to the western world. Exactly. The bases were already there. Made little sense to move them about when you need them to be somewhere around the place. I agree!  70 years ago Germany invaded most of the continent and was eventually catastrophically defeated.  70 years later it's a key NATO ally, one of the most powerful NATO countries militarily, and Europe's strongest economy.  In just 70 years it went from nearly destroying Europe to holding it together. &gt; Germany failed at domination victory, now going for economic victory

/r/civpolitics Worked for the Japanese. Right up until the bubble popped, but sure. Pretty sure they are going for cultural now. Has anyone seen my waifu? Germany is a very different country now. It goes both ways. Over a period of decades, allies can become enemies and former enemies can become allies. Who knows how the situation will be fifty years from now. I was posted in Germany, we have posts in Germany that are only for Americans, not NATO. But there's also other posts that are NATO and not just American.  [deleted] I know my mom (Canadian) was stationed in Germany for at least a few months.  I said mostly, not entirely. I know there are actual American bases still there. My aunt was stationed at one. I never was, but she was.  A lot of which have been closed. How many are left in the Stuttgart region? Frankfurt, Nuernbuerg, Fulda, Munich, Augsburg? Many were closed starting in the late 1990's, many more have been slated for closure since. Here's a list from 2010: http://www.stripes.com/news/list-of-base-closures-in-germany-1.108305 .
Bases in England have also been closed.  &gt; Frankfurt, Nuernbuerg, Fulda, Munich, Augsburg?

Neiter of those is in the Stuttgart region.
 I think it's meant as a continuation as in "how many in the Frankfurt region, how many in the Nrnberg region, etc." It was a confusing shortcut but it should be obvious to those who have some idea of German geography. Most American military bases in Germany have been closed in the past decade.  Ugh that circle jerk again. If you don't want to spend as much on your military don't spend as much on your military. Don't blame other nations who have sensible military budgets.

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_countries_by_military_expenditures

As you can see Germany and France combined spend more than Russia on their military and that doesn't even take all the other european nations into consideration. Europe can defend itself perfectly fine without the help of the US. And I wish that we would be able to turn them into nature preserves as well. Like I said, the vast majority of humanity would rather live in peace and not be burdened with the idea of a necessary military force. It says "former" right in the title, you didn't even have to read the article to avoid this misconception [Meanwhile](http://pgpf.org/sites/default/files/sitecore/media%20library/PGPF/Chart-Archive/0053_defense-comparison-crop.gif) How is this at all relevant?

The US has a much higher budget anyways.. So is the USA. Whats your point? Meanwhile in Canada we're destroying more and more land for an inefficient and extremely harmful oil extraction industry. Chernobyl has become a beautiful preserve.
  it gets glowing reviews. what's with the terrible comments Typical /r/worldnews stuff, really. As soon as Germany is mentioned in a title, people go nuts with WWII-speculations, how Germany today is either a saint or totally a new Nazi-Germany (with nothing in between), etc.

It's kind of funny, because the majority of visitors on this site are still American, while in Germany reddit isn't even among the top-50 pages, thus creating a really weirdly shifted view on things German here - I do not even subscribe /r/de or /r/germany... I think most Germans on reddit only read the english subs. This is /r/worldnews though. This subreddit is a lot more diverse than you think. That's why it is separate from /r/news. I agree though, it's usually a shithole.  German here :)

U are totaly right xD Im more the Lurking Guy in Reddit so I never argue with them instead I find it mostly amusing how the People go Nuts over WWII and speculate how Germany now is.


Its pretty Funny how far from reality some people here think over Germany.. American here. Grew up on an Army base in Germany and absolutely loved it. Best times of my life. My family lived off base amongst the locals and it was such a different, and in my opinion, better way of life than I've found here in the US. I'll always consider Germany home. Brit here. Germany is one of the best places I've ever visited and I can't wait to go back. You're a real lucky bunch over there.  German here. Please visit again. We like foreigners, sometimes we just don't know how to express it :) I lived in Germany for six years.  It's actually my favorite place in the world.  My wife and I would be living there right now if we didn't need to be here to help with family issues.
 in which respect is it far from reality? i never encountered comments that are especially far from reality tbh., or maybe i just havent noticed.

im from germany too, but i tend to stay clear from commenting on certain topics nowadays, especially the ones where germany is involved. aside from the odd translation or whatever. 

one of the most notable "stay clear" topics as a german is nuclear power i always find. nuclear power is for arguably sensible reasons loved on reddit, but germans have a more tempered approach to the subject in general cause we have no place to actually dump the waste, so you get zealots downvoting you and telling you how wrong you are, etc.etc. another one of those topics is the whole "right to be forgotten" thing.

so theres that, but i cant really remember too much about comments being very far from reality or sth.

im honestly curious what i missed, could you name/quote some comments or sth?

edit:

just found out you cant talk about germanys "no insults" law without getting messages about how germany is censoring free speech :X Yep, to argue over nuclear shit is really desperate on reddit as a german. They don't understand that we aren't worried about nuclear plants blowing up but the waste disposal issue. It needs to be stored savely for tens of thousands of years and so far we haven't found a place for it.  Similar in the UK. People keep blocking the building of a container facility so instead were using temporary ones instead which aren't as great.  Amen to that.

^^Believe ^^me, ^^I ^^tried. Tried that too, I immediatly regretted it. Pro tip: Don't go to /r/energy. you get the worst experience if you try to point out that "theres no place to dump the stuff in germany, cause everywhere is populated, and noone wants a nuclear waste dump in thier own district"

but heres the most frustrating bit about this: im a physicist. i honestly GET the upsides of nuclear power, and i probably know better than most people just how ridiculous germany is in regards to research related to nuclear power. even fusion research is suffering under this, even though its a lot cleaner and safer than fission energy. just cuase the word "nuclear" is attached to it.

but that doesnt mean that the waste problem for fission suddendly vanishes...

---

reddit is more and more losing its appeal as a site for discussion for me, and not just cause of that. the more im here the more it becomes obvious that (especially in large subs) you cant have a nice civilized discussion with someone. it just doesnt work :S. 

you get people highly upvoted who dont know what theyre talking about, but just happen to strike a chord with the hivemind. you get downvoted for disagreeing, so noone sees the opinion of the guy people disagree with. im not sure if this problem is fixable, tbh, it seems innate to reddit. That's so true, I think we can't achieve a normal discussion on reddit with the actual voting system. (everyone should follow the reddiquette, but yeah, not going to happen) If think about it I can't come up with a better one, the way facebook did it is even worse. every now and again you get a good discussion, and that *can* make it worth it.

i generally RES tag people with high upvote numbers and the tag "good conversation", so i recognise those people. i should mention the number of people i have tagged like this is something around 5 within a year and a half ive been on reddit.

i think you would need to remove points, or make them invisible, or maybe order by timestamp instead of upvote number. something like that.

cant say how facebook does it, ive never used it. Facebook simply has an upvote button: "Gefllt mir" i dont play league actively right now. have had maybe 3 or 4 games in the last half year. just dont enjoy the game anymore :/.

but feel free to add me, ill probably reocgnize you based on the reddit username. my redditname is identical to my leaguename. howd you figure i played league? How Mandarion already mentioned stuff like how Germany today is and all the typical Nazi stuff. Nothing Special if u ask me u get used to it in the Internet as German but its still quite funny. well, yeah you get the eternal nazi jokes, the eternal nazi comparisons, the bandwagonning how germany is NOT like nazi germany anymore, or on the environmental side how germany is this haven for renewables, or "not actually that great in regards to that"  cause sweden or some other scandinavian country actually has a higher percentage of renewables... etc.etc.

you hardly get much in regards to everyday life. thats what i always see. but thats not exactly out of the ordinary. i mean we dont get much out of the ordinary american life, either.

i dont know, maybe im jaded towards that, or maybe it actually is just "normal" to look at any country through a filter. I think there are a few topics you have to avoid unless you want to do the "Walk of Cersei".

I'm not very vocal about it but sometimes I feel like the reddit anti-christ, since I am: 

* a vegetarian
* a cyclist, and think individual transport based on cars is outdated and needs to be rethought drasticly
* i think nuclear can't be the solution (mostly due to the waist problem)
* I'm very OK with paying taxes (though I disagree on how a lot of it is spend) and health security because it creates a surrounding for me and my family where I feel save and relatively unafraid of the future.
* I think boundless wealth is a threat to society and we cannot trust rich people to become philanthropic like Gates or Buffet.
* guns
* privacy, data security
* the list goes on ;)

but most of the time i shut my fingers because i assume it's useless to point out my stance on it

 Yep, any country that is not well represented here is always portrayed with their stereotypes. The collective collective average of international geopolitics on reddit is roughly equal to Humon's Scandinavia and the World comics. I lived on Pease Air Force Base in New Hampshire as  a child. We went back a few years ago and much of the old base is now a wildlife refuge. It also has the Redhook brewery there now which is cool too. Some good international news :D It's nice to see that finally, something is considered more important than the fucking economy.

In the UK that land would have been redeveloped before we even knew it was an option, for GROWTH This is because Germany is already an economic powerhouse.

Again. Germany has become the best country in the world.  I'm optimistic in 200 years everything will be greener, the pollution will be better, and protecting our environment for the next generation is an universal value. I really hope so, but it's going to require vigilance and continued resistance against the many greedheads out there. Think of what a luxury that is - to be living in such peaceful times that we can do things like that. Yes, there are still terrible wars going on around the world, but, all things considered, we're living in the most peaceful time in human history. We need to appreciate that. Hopefully it lasts a long time. What's left out of this article is that this is because for many years the German government has been trying to unload these bases and basically no one was interested in buying. This isn't out of pure altruism, they're basically saying, "Fuck it, no one want's this land so we'll give it to the damn birds."  Though it still seems unlikely that [Lovebirds](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lovebird) will settle there.  I'm British and find it so sad that we are a million miles behind the Germans in doing things like this. The incredibly longterm foresight and benefit to people that such policies bring should surely be laughably obvious. Yet such a decision would be next to unthinkable here. Instead, some people - a very few people - would make a lot of money as the land was turned over to an industrial park, full of logistics depots or discount factory stores. And fuck nature and fuck the future. First let me just say: I want to go. 

That was my first thought.

 If you've been on a military base in Germany (American or German), it's already pretty beautiful. The base I was at had rules about the percentage of trees that could be cut down. Trees hung over the baseball field. Trees obscured the security cameras. There were trees which had branches which were essentially bridges over the barbed wire fence. 

If you want to look it up on Google Maps, it's Kelley Barracks in Stuttgart.  Becoming a military training area, is the best thing that could happen to land. At least in Germany.
It is surrounded by huge fences, nobody is allowed to be there and many training exercises are actually really good for the nature. Some of our nature reserves still let some tanks drive arround once a year, because it seems to be good for the soil.
It's like the protected species are actually protected by hundreds of guys armed with machine guns. I NEED TO GET THIS OFF MY CHEST. Germany you rock. Every news story I read abotu Germany is how your kicking ass in everything. Despite you're terribel bhistory you are more than making up for it. I only wish I had the opportunity to live in your great country with its great people. Your initiatives to help people, the environment, the economy and being all around that guy everyone loves who helps you out even though he doesn't have to, makes you awesome. Keep doing your thing and don't try to be like other countries. You are a role model.  I fucking love you Germany.   We love you too, ShittyBrain.
I actually made a survey.
81,6 million Germans said that they love you.
Two guys who moved here from Switzerland recently, were neutral about the case and one guy said he does't love you. But i bet that was Kevin, he is kind of an asshole. I gotta say, Germany has made the biggest turnaround of any country on earth. From the most evil hate-filled nation that possibly ever existed to now being super progressive and environmentally conscious. I'm a fan. And yes, I'm a Jew. I love Germany Keeping them nice and free of development in case they need to be converted back into basing facilities. This is kinda brilliant. If they ever need them again, they are right there almost ready to go. They will start by Germinating the land with wild flower seeds. The national forest program was a good economic catalyst for america. Military reform could being tobs of jobs. Imagine education and training people to actually deproliferate nuclear and chemical weapons and such. True peace and prosperity. delightful use of resources, I say How about you turn the [60+ foreign military bases](https://de.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ausl%C3%A4ndische_Milit%C3%A4rbasen_in_Deutschland) with 60k soldiers and nuclear weapons on German soil into nature parks next!? That's is a wonderful plan. Decline of song bird and others species is well documented. This can help. The comments here. Wow. These comments are giving me autism  I'm getting Tourettes instead... I guess I shouldn't have exceeded the maximum recommended safe dose of /worldnews. Could we do that with all the sports arenas, golf courses and Apple stores? and McDonalds I feel like Germany  is getting closer and closer to being a utopian place. Damn they have their shit together.. unlike some place... im looking at you Canada. Jurassic World 2 confirmed. Germany is slightly smaller than the state of Montana....how da fuq do they have 60 bases to close?? Damn... The inner German border would have become the hottest battleground if the Cold War had turned hot. Before the reunification, the German-German boarder was called the death strip. After the reunification, the piece of land got protected because it stayed pretty much untouched during its time as a militarized boarder. Now rare species like the King Fisher and otters life there. Even some very rare German orchids. That's nice. Germany can use more parks. Love that country though. Germany, science regardless of profit. i'd prefer turning Ramstein AFB into a nature preserve. Let's replace drones with eagles and owls.... Ramstein is a vitally important strategic asset to the US military and NATO. Yes it would be nice if we could get rid of our armed forces and live a utopian existence, but we don't, and Ramstein is a lot more important as a military position than a nature preserve. Let's focus on saving the Amazon first.  Germany agreed.....with who? Germany. Beautiful news, just amazing This is really cool, now if only the rest of the world would follow in their footsteps.  I worried no one would get it. I TO LIKE THIS That's awesome! Awesome. Good, good... hide the evidence... They are going to force the birds to live there? Pretty cool. Reminds of that Talking Heads song. Nothing but flowers....  http://youtu.be/068AFYvd58E Now, that's what I call "Flipping the bird"! I would love it if they selectively removed airstrips and roads in the shape of paths and circles and whatnot so over time there are paths through the forests with cathedral branches overhead, got the idea at an old airbase where they took most of the runway out and left some for parking, and I realized that they could have had much more had they removed less Not the same idea, but right in the heart of Berlin there is the old airport "Tempelhof". The airfield is now basically a park, which is pretty cool if you want to rollerskate or just go for a walk. Germany has some great native birds but the picture are African domesticated love birds which are a type of parrot. 

How about the white-tailed eagle which is on their coat of arms? Or this [skylark](http://www.thelocal.de/galleries/News/animals-dying-out-in-germany/5)? I was stationed in Harvey barracks in Kitzingen in '99.  Last I heard, it's been abandoned.  I wonder if it's on that list for nature preserves.  Any way to find out? As stated on the website of Kitzingen, the Harvey Barracks were solde to a private investor, who tries to build up a commercial or industrial area there. Now.... Of they would stop mining brown coal. My dad was contracted to locate the hazardous materials and toxic leaks at recently decommissioned Military bases. From what I learned, Military bases are extremely toxic environments and I would think putting animals there would spell disaster. There are all kinds of chemical and heavy metals out there in large quantities... I know someone who used to do this for the US bases that closed in Germany. It is possible, it just takes a lot of work. Cleaning chemicals, lubricants and fuel tended to get everywhere. Construction frequently used asbestos. It depends on the bases, I think. If they were just barracks, I doubt that they are toxic environments. One would think. But barracks are where many of these things were found. The ground water carries nasty stuff everywhere. [deleted] &gt; Not politically possible to do it openly and for the right reasons, but at least it is done: 

Might be one of the better things Jonathan has done, aside from peacefully losing the election. Very impressive. &gt; aside from peacefully losing the election

That is a huge deal. We are so used to it in the western world, but 40 something consecutive peaceful transfers of power is basically unheard of anywhere that doesn't have democracy. Say a lot of things about democracies but they are really, really stable and it is fantastically hard to get a case against the legitimacy of the rulers unless you can prove election fraud. Good for him!  Sorry to read it was an unpopular decision which went against cultural norms, but maybe that culture can change to be kinder to females. I wish there was a way to show that this "unpopular opinion" is a popular one worldwide. Isn't that what the Internet is for? The internet's opinion is by no means a  worldwide opinion. Personally I'm thankful for that. Are you telling me that 9/11 was *not* an inside job? And that Hitler did, in fact, do something wrong? Jew fuel can't melt steel Reich Elvis didn't do no drugs You're not wrong. Wait, so 2Pac didn't fake his own death and then killed Biggie? You know about the thin person inside every fat person, right?

Did anyone ever see them in the same room? Many, many times, yes. Why is that? I mean, we're not mutilating female genitals so I think the women over there would disagree with your opinion. Not necessarily. If women are used to every woman going through the same thing, their mothers and their mothers mothers and their mothers mothers mothers.... Well at that point its a direct analogy to giving birth. Every woman over there has had FGM and given birth. Anyone who hasn't is seen as an anomoly. They're younger when either FGM or giving birth happens. Pain and then it is all over and you're "better" That's the horrid part of it being cultrual. Its not all men vs women. Its society against their own children who are brought up to expect this. Seen as a step further towards womanhood. This is essentially the problem. Women and girls are brought up to want this procedure done in order to appeal to a potential husband. It is shameful to not have it done. This is going to cause some huge waves for sure. And, god forbid, back alley procedures.  The worldwide opinion would definitely agree that genital mutilation is wrong, myself included.

My point is the internet is a lousy representation of worldwide opinion. Unless you're implying that **The World** thinks children getting crushed by earthquakes in Chile is not as important as Ben Affleck being Batman. You use the word "important" here incorrectly... People don't pay attention to something or show/share appreciation/acknowledgement for something solely based on it's "importance" (which is a sum of effects experienced from a subjective &amp; unique perspectives.)

My cat being dead is more important to me than someone across the world whom I've never known being dead. That doesn't mean i'd rather my cat not be dead either... But obviously just by inherit human nature I cannot appreciate that the dead someone i've never known is more "important."

To someone who has known that person that is now dead - it's hard for them to appreciate that my dead cat is more important to me. NaziAdolfHitler is being very logical today.   At least in Egypt, it is chiefly a women-driven process - mother to daughter :( 

I would assume it's the same in Nigeria. &gt; The internet's opinion is by no means a worldwide opinion. Personally I'm thankful for that.

If you could sum up the billions of people's opinions on the infinite number of things we could have opinions on, I feel like in many ways "the internet's" opinion is by all means a worldwide opinion. Or at least it's the most global opinion that's ever been established in the history of man, at least since there was the first, solitary tribe of humans somewhere and they agreed on something. 

 Wait, you mean the world isn't full of seven billion middle-class white guys? That's just Reddit. There's a whole Web out there, World Wide, if you will. Or so I've heard. White Middle Class Male Atheist Heterosexual. Ahem. I'm upper middle class and agnostic, thank you very much. What makes you assume everyone here is white? To say that the internet is the worldwide opinion does not take into account the millions or probably billions of people who are not on the internet, i.e. do not have access.  90% of reddit is IT professionals.  They don't think about these kinds of things. &gt; 90% of reddit ~~is~~ **consider themselves** IT professionals.

Ftfy.

 "have you updated adobe reader?" Updated it to Google Ultron. Not true at all...  I definitely agree. There may have been a time it was true, and there may still be a larger percentage of IT professionals on Reddit than the general population, but I don't think the number of IT pros on Reddit is even close to half, let alone 90%. Reddit is a mainstream social networking platform, not a small IT centric community. It's so cute, people think it's still 2009. There's an estimated 4 billion people without Internet access. That's more than half the population.  Where exactly do you find this summed up opinion of billions of people on the internet? Just because you regularly see a certain opinion on the internet, doesn't mean that's the majority opinion of everybody. You're only seeing the opinions of the places you visit, which is a very small percentage of the total places on the internet. Not to mention there's people who never use the internet for discussion (or at all), and millions, if not billions, of people who don't share a language with us. Isn't it possible to do some data mining on various websites on this sepcific topic? You guys are taking the word "whole" too literally. Just like if you wanted to find out the average allowance of American teenagers, you couldn't possibly survey ALL of them, that's why there is random sampling. Same situation here. Perform surveys/data mine/research selected forums. Why would they care what the rest of the world thinks.... would we? Since when did knowing the disapproval of others stop people from doing fucked up things culturally? I never got the logic behind this anyway... Like what do they really think a woman is more likely to stay with a guy because other guys can't give her clitoral stimulation? Sex should be just as shitty with the husband as with any other man so what extra incentive does that add?

I would argue that you should keep the clit and learn how to play with it because then she will actually want to stay with you. That is what they believe, yes. Sex is shit with her husband, she COULD have shit sex with someone else, but there's no point. She has no motivation to have non-obligatory sex, ever. Yay! + 1 step for humanity Sometimes I would like to understand the logic behind Reddit (or maybe the internet; or maybe the news; or maybe... people). I posted this yesterday: http://www.reddit.com/tb/37smd6
Didn't get a single upvote. I don't post it for karma, I don't care for imaginary points with no use. I did to spread the word and to generate awareness and debate. So, again, I'm just really curious. What is it that makes one post about a specific subject be completely ignored and another post a few hours later about the same subject in the same website explode? It's interesting. And weird. It's probably just a few votes at a certain time to get into the 'rising' section, which then guarantees that people who want to find that story on the sub's front page will find that one and upvote it, and then most people upvote it because it's highly upvoted. Assuming no bots, it's luck. Whoever sees the article first and decides on a whim to upvote it and thereafter gain momentum from everyone seeing the upvotes.

It's always a good idea to look at other news aggregation sites because reddit might not be able to sufficiently make important issues visible. Issues are visible because of the interests of reddit users (or bots), not necessarily because they *should* be. All things about timing and luck aside, your title was a bad one.

&gt;female mutilation

 It's probably just chaos, so much to see.  I didn't see it ... shrug. timing (and bots?) Not cool, Reddit. Here, have an upvote! I even shared your link on fb.  The scene: USA 2115. President signs executive order finally banning Male Genital Mutilation. A commenter writes:


&gt; Good for him! Sorry to read it was an unpopular decision which went against cultural norms, but maybe that culture can change to be kinder to males.

One can always dream. Hopefully America will finally follow suit with boys, all "cultures" need to stop cutting children. Long overdue. Glad to see the Nigerian government make a stance on the issue. Of course people will still do these cultural practices but the government coming out and saying it's wrong will probably be a tipping point. Not to mention criminal penalties for parents when doctors find out their daughters were mutilated. It's worth noting that Nigeria had its first democratically head of state replace the incumbent like three days ago. Do you mean to say first democratically elected head of state from an opposition party replace the incumbent? Because this is the fourth President we've had since 1999. Now we'll see if it's enforced. Yeah...I just came back from Tanzania where FGM is also illegal, but definitely still performed. In the areas where it is performed the least, the rates are still around 20%. We met a Maasai girl around 12 who was already circumcised and engaged, and her family was waiting for her first period to be married.  So the law doesn't mean to much...the culture has to change first and that's a long process...instead of outlawing FGM, it might be more productive to put more funding  towards education and clean water...but there really isn't a simple fix.  It's astonishing that anything involving mutilation of any kind is still legal ...
 Ikr its perfectly fine to cut up parts of children's genitals for no reason other then fucking myths or because some book says too but its not OK for a child to drink alcohol or smoke cigarettes, we should take a step forward as a real society and outlaw these practices the globe over,I am male and was circumsied when I was born, with out my permission and I wish my parents never had it done. Same here. It sucks when you try to compare your concerns with articles like this and people demonize you because "females have it worse."

This won't truly be a victory for humanity until America sees it's own hypocrisy on the issue [deleted] One side thinks MGM protestors are "trying to take over" the debate, but, in reality they are just trying to be *included.* try living in America while also being anti-infant circumcision. There is no ore solitary and lonely life to live. You are truley alone. American against circumcision here (I'm restored too).

A ton of Americans agree with me. We're not alone at all. [deleted] &gt; One side thinks MGM protestors are "trying to take over" the debate, but, in reality they are just trying to be included. try living in America while also being anti-infant circumcision. There is no ore solitary and lonely life to live. You are truley alone.

We try to make our own threads, and discussions. People shit all over them more than the radical MRA's on a feminist post.

I go to protests, I speak at medical conferences and get laughed at, there is EXTREME amounts of cognative dissonance, bias, and avoidance that makes it impossible to have a conversation about the ethicalitys of male circumsision alone, dispite the overwhelming evidence (outside the US) that it is harmful.

Most of us intactivists are aware that what we do is a fools errand, I'm acutely aware that male circumsision will never be made illegal, and it will slowly just fizzle out. Yet I still try.

Its lonely, nobody understands how I feel, and why I am so worked up over 'just a little snip'. [Have you seen this?](http://pediatrics.aappublications.org/content/early/2013/03/12/peds.2012-2896.full.pdf) I'll probably be downvoted to hell for posting it, but it's very interesting. It's basically a bunch of doctors debunking every single "health benefit" of infant circumcision. They also discuss American cultural bias and how strong it is. It's fascinating. You get laughed out of medical conferences for being anti-circumcision?  What is your presentation like?  I mean... it's not that out of the ordinary to be anti-circumcision, many doctors (and certainly those interested in furthering knowledge enough by attending conferences) are aware of this movement, even if they personally don't agree with it.  And also, people don't really get laughed out of conferences.  Heck, there are people who get up and present their findings with holistic medicine and sit down and everyone in the audience knows they're a quack but the laughter is saved for the hotel bar afterwards.

I mean... I'm totally with you in opposing circumcision and would fight tooth and nail to keep any future children I have uncut.  This just seems a little hyperbolic.  I would say that the vast majority of people in this country circumcise because of a lack of awareness that you don't have to, rather than a fervent belief in cutting up some babies. &gt; overwhelming evidence (outside the US) that it is harmful.

Do you have a citation for this?  It's not that I don't believe you; I've just never heard anything about harmful effects of circumcision.  I already know it offers no benefits.

&gt; Most of us intactivists are aware that what we do is a fools errand... Yet I still try.

Don't get discouraged.  Keep educating people.  You may help turn the tide. Hmmm, you have no idea how many times I have been told that I am dirty because I am not circumcised, then again I remind them that I am way more sensitive down there aka better sex. &gt; I have been told that I am dirty because I am not circumcised

And this is the biggest reason why infant circumcision is so widely accepted in this country today. Everyone else is doing it and it would be totally weird not to. What a great basis for a medical procedure. /s

That's probably exactly how [how artificial cranial deformation](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Artificial_cranial_deformation) continued in those cultures for so long. I'm sure they had people ranting and raving about the benefits while that movement was going on.    Everyone WAS doing it.   Not so much anymore, in the Western part of the U.S., about 40% or less of all males born are being circumcised.   Hispanic's aren't real big on it so its slowly been decreasing in the U.S.   Oh, I have some idea. One of my best friends is uncut. We were both at a party, and a group of girls began talking openly and loudly about how they'd never sleep with an uncut guy because of how "dirty and disgusting" they all are. 

I will never forget the look of defeat and shame that I saw on his face on that day.

Ever since then I have been vehemently against nonconsentual circumcision of minors. I genuinely don't understand what you gain by being cut, I can roll back my foreskin and emulate the same bald penis of a circumcised man and make sex really smooth, and I just roll back the skin during a shower and clean it each day. What the fuck is wrong with having some natural protection for my dick ?! It's important to note this is a uniquely American thing, and the rest of the world looks on confused - like with your gun laws, health system, imperial measurements, and Republicans.  In India, everyone thinks circumcision = Muslims. Tell that to America.  Europe too, the only groups doing circumcision here are muslims and jews.  In germany it's even only legal for muslims and jews. Medical reasons and for religious reasons. Yankees and Muslims, who knew?  I make sure to stand up in those times. I refuse to let my friend say ignorant shit in my presence especially since its already been disproven.  Not only legal, but hugely popular on reddit. We have a long, long way to go. Any time this kind of subject pops up (circumcision, racism, sexism), lots of Redditors will go on the defensive and double down on their beliefs. And instead of constructive discussion, we just get lots of jokes, snarky witticisms, and straw social justice warriors. And it's hard to have a productive discussion when the people you speak to have only contempt and condescension for you. Somehow you're either a stupid SJW or a MRActivist trying to further his/her own agenda. It's as if advocacy for general human rights isn't possible.  No kidding. It's just silly. This thread is full of "about time!" comments, but from people who're pro-circumcision and the usual argument for it is "it's cleaner!"

I mean it's not like we invented soap four thousand years ago before these fucktard religions even popped up promoting the mutilation of infants to inhibit their future sex lives, because they thought sex should only be for procreation and nothing else.

Oh wait, no it was actually a common practice in Egypt over 4,000 years ago to routinely bathe and use soap to wash.

It's literally the most neck-beard argument in existence. It's only cleaner if you're a disgusting slob who doesn't know the existence of hygiene, and it's even more laughable when women use this argument too. You really have to question how absurdly low their standards are if that issue has *ever* come up as a deal breaker, or why they wouldn't want that as a relationship barometer. "Dude's got stinky dick, he's so dumped."

Reddit is about as capable of intelligent discussion as a 2x4. The scariest part of the "it's cleaner" argument is that Routine Infant Circumcision became popular AFTER we had running water, antibiotics, and other forms of modern sanitation. Before that people got along just fine with their foreskins. We gain the ability to disinfect skin and suddenly the U.S. has a massive hygiene issue that never existed before in the 200k history of humanity.    I don't even get how it's supposed to be cleaner. The foreskin is fused to the glans until shortly before puberty. The glans basically an internal organ until that point and it doesn't get much cleaner than that.

With circumcision on the other hand, you now have an open wound in the same diaper the baby routinely shits in. That sounds like an improvement... While I don't really feel hurt by the fact that I was circumcised as a child, I still get incredible sexual pleasure from my penis, I still think it's insane that we modify a child's body before they can even properly see, let alone make decisions. It's also incredibly unnerving that so many people say that there's no parallel between FGM and MGM/circumcision. People get very defensive because this is an attack on their beliefs. They also *really* don't want to see themselves as a victim or their parents as bad people. So they deny and rationalize. It's a lesson in human nature. Male genital mutilation is still legal everywhere despite being somewhat damaging. 

The two are not comparable,  but why is any of it legal? 

EDIT: Guys, I'm saying male genital mutilation should also be illegal. no need for the threats via pm ;_;

Shameless plug for http://foregen.org

 One day, male infant genital mutilation will be outlawed. And it will be the most obvious thing ever. Circumcision will still be allowed, but the choice will be returned to the person it belongs. By the time the actual effects of it are known well enough that it's outlawed, no one will ever choose to have it done unless they have some sort of fetish to remove all sexual feeling and make themselves a toy for their partners. It's not even about the effects. It's more just the principle of it. I mean, c'mon unless there's a medical reason, just leave your kid's penis alone. They can get a circumcision whenever they want, just let them have that choice. I disagree.  Self mutilation should be allowed. You know when you see people from the WBC out picketing, and you're like "how can  you be so evil?"  
It's because they've been brainwashed to believe that everyone is meant to hate them; they believe that the path to eternal glory with God is a hard road and if people aren't hating them, it means they aren't doing their jobs.  
Well, with FGM in many countries, it's been promoted as something girls will *want* to have done because it makes them "women". It's also something mothers will want to do to their children because a culture which is backward enough to practice such a thing is one where women would feel ashamed for not "doing their job".  
I think it's a great step in making it illegal but you will still find women finding ways to have it done... and they won't be being abducted by the men - they'll be doing it themselves or their mothers/aunts will be taking them to have it done.   ITT: people argue about the difference in damage when parts of baby genitals are removed. 

How about we just leave everyone's alone and cut no genitals

Shameless plug for http://foregen.org That's what people are saying. Those against MGM aren't for FGM, despite what many people in this thread are trying to imply.

They're against it happening to anyone. And then be declared "misogynists" and "making it about men" simply because they point out that all this effort has gone into making it illegal in that country while completely ignoring it's legal to do the same thing to men in their country and it's still legal to do it to men in the country their praising for illegalizing FGM.

People would be just as outraged if a group was solely making fighting cancer entirely about women. Murder is illegal in the United States. People are murdered every day.

At least the government of Nigeria is recognizing this act as serious bullshit but until *people* themselves start being held accountable it's all hot air.

EDIT: Judging by the responses I really can't understand how so many people are having a hard time comprehending my post....Making something illegal doesn't stop it from happening. But this is a step in the right direction. I've spelled it out for you. You're welcome.  &gt; Murder is illegal in the United States. People are murdered every day.

Well, we should outlaw it then. You should be president! CuntPunt 2k16 Sanders &amp; CuntPunt 2016 Sec. of State random_douche, and senate majority leader Buck-Nasty. I volunteer to be Secretary of Dank Memes.   Sorry, Harold holds that office for life. What if Harold has an unfortunate fatal accident? Good luck, Harold has uncanny spider sense. all the office will belong to u Until buck nasty turns into, thug nasty.  [deleted] [deleted] Liberals wanna have "murder control" in this country. Pfft! Clearly we need a War on Murder! We just need to make it illegal to break the law! too many wars, we need a war on war yeah people still get murdered, but don't act like the legal system doesn't do anything to minimize the violence. This isn't the end of it, but it's still a great first step.  Dude just made a useless cynical post to grab maximum karma from the edge lords.  He doesn't even make sense. If it's illegal then people will be held accountable when they're prosecuted for this now illegal act. Nope its a meaningless gesture meant to get support for Nigerian hopefuls in Iowa. This is exactly why I'm voting for Hillary Motumbo! Every time she vetoes something she gives the finger wag. First: I don't understand, if you're not being sarcastic, do you mind expanding? Second: Love the username. I can see where he has a point though, not to voice an unpopular opinion but... Think of prohibition; people were so set on doing what they wanted to, that it failed, because it only caused more crime that the police force was not equipped to handle nor did they necessarily want to handle. 

I'm not saying I'm not very happy to see this article. I do feel that this is a step forward and a positive thing. However, in all reality, I wouldn't expect female genital mutilation to actually significantly decrease for several years, and still, it totally depends on how the law enforcement in that country executes this. It's only a deterrent if people feel that they have a chance of getting caught. (Think of speeding, for example--how often do you get caught speeding, is the fine worth taking the chance to not be late for work, etc.)  You make some good points. Enforcing it and educating people will need to happen or might not change much like you said. The thing is, his logic applies more to possessions than to the violence itself. If they had banned blades in general to stop genital mutilation instead of the act itself, then his logic would be much more sound. Exactly. I can see people in small villages saying, "Fuck them, it's tradition! Get ready daughter, it's your turn next week. There's not a cop within 50 miles." Laws need to actually be enforced. I come from a culture where rule of law is paramount (United States). Just about everyone I grew up with, including myself, takes the law for granted. When something is law, we follow. But this culture of rule of law isn't universal. Constitutions and written law are great but they're also relatively new in human history. Not all laws are enforced. His point was that unfortunately, this might become one of them. welcome to reddit Ironic Welcome to /r/worldnews &gt; Murder is illegal in the United States. People are murdered every day.

And how do you think the murder rate would be affected if it was completely legal? Because I have an inkling for what would happen. When this leader was elected people on here were talking about the country turning into a sharia law state because he was Muslim. Huge amounts of Christians voted for him.  He may well be the uniting force that Nigeria needs and that my Nigerian Christian friends tell me he is Lets hope so. You didn't read the article. This was authorized by the exiting president, not Buhari.  Still, it is better to have it illegal than legal. If it's legal, there is NO recourse at all. If it is illegal, it may slowly start to shape the culture.

Would you rather it if murder were legal? It's still a step in the right direction. And progress should be celebrated. Tiny or large, progress is progress.  Sure, but it gives the government of Nigeria a way to prosecute those who break this law, just like the government in the United States has the ability to prosecute murderers. It's one step in the right direction. I figure people are still going to do genital mutilation on girls. Only difference is they're going to be way more discreet now. Was my first thought as well, some will carry on still doing it with zero fucks given. &gt; EDIT: Judging by the responses I really can't understand how so many people are having a hard time comprehending my post...

I feel for you. The general problem is that people dont understand that law is based on ethics. Law doesn't just exist "per se", even if it tries to. And ethics change, and so does the law. And so do people. Ethics try to be as objective as possible, but people certainly are not. The discrepancy between what people believe is ethical and what the law says is right and what is actually "true, just and fair" is huge.

So it will take some time for this new law to have its full effect. But: Legislation can and does change the view of the people. They have to justify what they are doing now. They didnt have to do that before. This means they need to think now. I'm sure most will find a way around this "thinking", but some won't, and some will just accept the new law.

So yeah, step into the right direction.

This is what you meant, right? I guarantee you if murder wasn't illegal it would significantly more present than it is now. People are also arraigned, tried, found guilty of, convicted for, and sentenced for murder every day in the US. Many people have trouble understanding your post because many take it for granted that rule of law can be counted upon to be there. But this isn't the case. Laws need to be *enforced* and the people need to understand that the government (or other people) will have some *recourse*.

Laws are only words. What is actually happening on the ground? What are the police, who generally have a state-sanctioned monopoly on violence, actually doing? &gt; Murder is illegal in the United States. People are murdered every day.

The point of laws is to stop repeat offenders, not prevent it outright. &gt; Judging by the responses I really can't understand how so many people are having a hard time comprehending my post.

~~Reddit~~ The world is populated by retards, that's how. The point of outlawing something is that a society is saying as a whole that the many will no longer tolerate something once considered tolerable. Its a public declaration of a change in the mentality of a society. It is beyond comprehension that ignorance of the magnitude of FGM still exists.
I hope this madness goes away forever.
And that women participate in it makes it pure insanity.
 Well that's nice of Nigeria. At least Nigeria is getting a little bit more progressive, not by much, but a step in the right direction. Both male and female circumcision were practised by Nigeria's Yoruba people for over two thousand years.

There's a Holy Book called Odu Ifa that has been orally passed down for thousands of years that describes both. &gt; Odu Ifa

I'm Yoruba and I'd like to see a source for these claims. We don't even know where the people who ended up being Yoruba were living 2 thousand years ago. I'm Yoruba too. Ile-Ife my dad's hometown was founded in 300BC, so we do know where we were 2000 years ago. Whatever the intentions, I'm glad it has been outlawed in Nigeria! Great step for human rights. Great. Now just a few more countries to go.... This feels like one of those things that should be a given for having a human rights act.

"Is it legal to perform unnecessary (not life-saving *or correcting birth defects*) surgery to modify the human body on persons under the age of recognized legal consent in your country?"

"Is it legal to perform surgery of any sort on persons against their will?"

Simple yes or no. If you answered yes, you don't get to be a part of the UN.

Oops! I guess the US wouldn't pass that test either.

*Edit: I had forgotten about non-life threatening birth defects. Added a small bit in italics.* The UN wouldn't work if we kicked out all of the bad actors. There would literally be nobody left. If we only kicked out the *really* bad actors, you're defeating the purpose of the UN, which is diplomacy. [deleted] Not being able to use you tongue or fingers properly sounds like a medical necessity to me.  "Properly" is subjective, though. Just ask the militant deaf. (I don't have this stance, just popping in with that angle for fun.) Seriously though, nobody can legitimately declare for someone else what "proper use" of a body is, and that's a fun ethical tangle to sort. &gt; Just ask the militant deaf.

I did, and they couldn't hear me, which is a pretty open and shut case that they are, in fact, disabled. The militant deaf are an absolutely fascinating case study on the extent sour grapes can reach. I was devil's-advocating a bit, and I totally agree with your last sentence. Also, 10/10 hilarity on the first one. However, while you can declare that deaf people are, in fact, disabled, you can't really objectively make an ethical declaration that there's anything *wrong* about them being electively disabled. That's what I'm getting at, fundamentally, is the inherent subjectivity of personal preference. I'm not trying to be all "It's all subjective, maaan" or any of that postmodern bullshit, just sayin', past a point you really can't make a general declaration about the use/purpose of bodies without it inherently being arbitrary and subjective itself. &gt; you can't really objectively make an ethical declaration that there's anything wrong about them being electively disabled.

True enough. And if the kid wants to remove their hearing aids when they get older, that's totally on them. Nobody was making the statement that there's any moral wrong in choosing to be disabled, and none of the arguments presented rely on the premise that choosing to be disabled is wrong. But the discussion was about people incapable of legal consent, and specifically infants who cannot make meaningful decisions at all. What some consenting adults choose to do has absolutely no bearing on what should or should not be a permissible choice for a parent or medical professional to make on behalf of an infant.

&gt;past a point you really can't make a general declaration about the use/purpose of bodies without it inherently being arbitrary and subjective itself.

The fact that some people choose to be disabled does not make the term disabled arbitrary, or rather any more arbitrary than any other word in the English language. We could equally quibble over the words "fact", "people", "choose", "term", "arbitrary", "word", or "English" and the precise definitions of all these words may be very important in discussing some other issues, but that doesn't make the term useless. 

I realize that you are playing devil's-advocate, but there's really no grey area here. Disabled is a more than sufficiently meaningful term to be useful and valid for legal purposes. Adults can do whatever they want to their own bodies and nobody's disputing that. Children can't do whatever they want to their own bodies, and parents should only be able to have surgery performed on their young children to correct disabilities or birth defects. Perhaps if the law needed to be generalized to some hypothetical nonhuman sapience, then more attention would have to be paid to how we define birth defects and disabilities, but it is quite clear what constitutes a birth defect in humans, and we can revisit the issue when we discover aliens that vary wildly enough in form for the term to actually be ambiguous. See, I don't disagree with you that there is an objectively most rational standard for what counts as a defect or disability and therefore dysfunctional trait. I think you've laid out a really clear objective standard on that. But I think where we disagree is the level of priority that has to be placed on acknowledging/permitting other people's subjective standards for it. There are some things that, even if people are totally irrational about them, are their prerogative to be irrational about, and I think that their own functionality -- or, more accurately, the *adequacy* of their own functionality -- is in that category for any given individual. By all means, though, *applying* this ethical consideration becomes difficult and necessitates choosing a working norm for general agreement. The problem starts when people take that choice away from others by doing something irreversible to them as babies. Thats absolutely silly. We can absolutely declare what proper use is. Your heart pumps blood. Thats its use. Your ears help with awareness and communication. Those are its uses. He did specifically put non life-saving in there. That would unarguably exclude webbed fingers and tongue ties. My step son would sound "retarded" today if he didn't have his tied-tongue cut, but at no point was he in physical danger due to it.

Anyone excusing this example outright hasn't looked into it at all. &gt; not life-saving

 Removing finger webs or tongue ties has a clear and demonstrable positive effect on function. 

Foreskin removal surgery does not. I'm a medical provider, and I have read every piece of remotely legitimate literature on the subject (because it intrigued me in school.) It has no benefits, and every study that demonstrates any has as many biases as the study that shows vaccines cause autism. 

At best, it does no measurable harm. At worst, it takes away a young boy's healthy sexual function, and creates a health problem where previously there was none.  Jesus this thread is cringe-worthy.  It's astonishing that anything involving mutilation of any kind is still legal ... This is going to be buried, I'm sure, but I don't really care.  As for this article, I'm genuinely happy a part of the world where something so horrible takes place is making some progress.

To address some of the people in this thread though, there are to be quite a few people saying "we should outlaw all genital mutilation".  They are either being agreed with, or told to stop "derailing the thread".  We also have other guys who are cut talking about how it's never been an issue for them.  Good, I'm truly glad for them.

My circumcision, however, was botched.  It was done when I was an infant in a backwater hospital in the Middle East.  I have a ton of scar tissue left over, and can't easily achieve, let alone maintain an erection.  I'm almost thirty and have never had satisfying sex, and likely never will.  Instead, I've had multiple humiliating experiences, and the handful of romantic relationships I've been able to find were pretty much destroyed because of it.

It really hurts when people brush it off as "not as big a deal".  It is to me, and I hope that one day no one's children, female or male, will be subject to that kind of treatment.  They just probably won't be my children - because I will likely never have any.  Thank you for reading, anyone who sees this, and please be kind to each other, everyone.

Edited for clarity, I think some of my phrasing is wrong - English is not my first language. Why...would you touch someone else's genitals...they're not yours to cut.. In other news, FGM rates in Nigeria have not changed.  well it hasn't even been a day... Yet. It has to start somewhere. [deleted] I don't get why people get so pissy when others bring up outlawing MGM as well during these conversations.

I swear it's like they want a monopoly on how bad everything is. Some of the posts on here are ridiculous.

"I think we should outlaw all unconsenting mutilation."

"WHY DO YOU ALWAYS HAVE TO BRING MEN INTO THIS? FGM IS SO MUCH WORSE NEITHER ARE COMPARABLE."

Congratulations, you're right, but you're a dick. The difference is this: People in the first world and now the government of Nigeria and other countries know FGM is wrong. Nobody talks about how MGM is wrong, and while yes -- there are tons of circumcised guys who don't mind it, doing anything permanent to an unwilling person just for cosmetic reasons is wrong. It's impossible to argue that.

Nobody is saying MGM is worse than full-blown FGM, but the difference is there are actions in place to ban FGM and none in place to ban MGM. Why can't we all just work together instead of bitching and trying to be special snowflakes? "In the 1990s, when the Canadian ethicist Margaret Somerville began to speak and write critically about the non-therapeutic circumcision of infant boys, she was attacked for even addressing the subject in public. In her book The Ethical Canary, she says her critics accused her of detracting from the horror of female genital mutilation and weakening the case against it by speaking about it and infant male circumcision in the same context and pointing out that the same ethical and legal principles applied to both."

~http://aeon.co/magazine/philosophy/male-and-female-circumcision-are-equally-wrong/ A lot of places where they do FGM, Male circumcision is also done brutally by people with no medical background. Young boys can and do die from infections due to these "circumcisions" or have their penis butchered.

It is not as widespread or as outwardly nefarious as FGM but it can be just as brutal, and this is not even counting the acceptance of circumcision in western countries. Both MGM and FGM are problems and both need to be seen as human rights violations. The difference is that for a circumcised man, saying "MGM is wrong" is like saying "something is wrong with my dick." That's why so many cut men are so resistant to the idea that it is "mutilation." 

But it's like this: men who have Prince Albert piercings don't consider them mutilation. Some get great pleasure out of the body modification. However, if you did it to a non-consenting individual, it would absolutely be mutilation. 

MGM is perfectly capable of removing a man's ability to have sexual pleasure and orgasm. Isn't this the biggest reason why FGM is so heinous? Just because MGM causes it less often makes it no less a violation of bodily integrity. 

And if it's a consent issue, then FGM and MGM are equal levels of breach of consent. MGM just has some made up "benefits" tacked onto it that cloud up the issue. People can act like they're doing a child a fucking FAVOR by doing cosmetic surgery on them, which is a much harder excuse to front when it comes to FGM.  &gt; That's why so many cut men are so resistant to the idea that it is "mutilation." 

The majority of the FGM practice is supported and pushed by women. Mothers, grandmothers, female elders.

The same is true for men and MGM.
 And if there were a bunch of women from Nigeria on here, a lot of them would probably be defending FGM.  There are plenty of women in Egypt who do defend it.  I've dated a girl who had gone through FGM and didn't even know. She has a Muslim Indonesian mother and just thought it was normal. As a circumcised man who never asked to be, I too, get angry at the posts that just say "WELL IT HAPPENED BEFORE I REMEMBER AND I FELT NO PAIN AND THAT'S HOW I WANTED IT"

"Okay, well would you have chosen that for yourself at an older a-"

"MY DICK IS FINE AND NOTHING IS WRONG AND I CAN CLEAN SO EASY NOW AND ALL GIRLS LOVE IT"

"That doesn't answer the ques-"

"I'M GLAD I DON'T HAVE A DIRTY ANTEATER DICK!"

God, these people are fucking impossible to have a rational discussion with. I seriously don't understand why so many people on this site act like mentioning a similar issue is totally derailing any and all conversations about the original issue. Bringing up another thing doesn't stop all conversation about the other thing, for fucks sake. You didn't mention female genital mutilation at all. Instead, you're debating what "derailment" means.

This is the result of derailment. *Oh shit* About f*cking time progress  Oh, an FGM news thread on the front page! I expect rational, intelligent, and thought-provoking debate to arise! /s Could someone explain how they are mutilate these women? I want to learn, but fuck no way am I gonna Google "Step by Step Guide To: Female Genital Mutilation". Thank you.     I should not be so cynical and applaud the step in the right direction, but when I read the title all I could see was "Ireland outlaws rain." Outlawing it is one thing, enforcing that law is another.  Just making sure everyone in the public even KNOWS it's illegal would be a challenge. (And probably make a huge difference) Wawooooooooooooo Nice to hear  The fact that this has to be "outlawed" in 2015 is kinda sad.  We're born perfect just the way we are. All genital mutilation should be outlawed.. and that goes for males too. Circumcision for baby males is outdated, barbaric, and just plain unnecessary  when genital mutilation is outlawed, only outlaws will mutilate genitals! Now if only America could learn from this and ban male genital mutilation.  Why didn't they just outlaw all genital mutilation of minors and babies? Oh Christ, here we go... [deleted] FRESH POPCORN FOR SALE

POPCORN 2 KARMA

CHEESE CORN 3 KARMA

CARAMEL CORN 4 KARMA [deleted] I thought we were discussing human rights. Oh well... Nah this is all about women. Sure, it's in worldnews this time and not TwoX, but...

Um... but we shouldn't...

:shrugs: Because in practice, FGM is several degrees worse? There are 4 levels of FGM, the lightest level is not much different from MGM. The level 4 is the batshit insane mutilation. Just like... castration? And castration is even worse.

So what if female circumcision is worse? Genital mutilation is bad, so why can't we put them under the same banner and fight them together?

I don't even understand the objection. http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fallacy_of_relative_privation   Not necessarily, depends on what degree of FGM you're talking about.  Level 1, the most common, would be removal of the clitoral hood or nearly identical to removal of a foreskin.


  FGM is also commonly performed by women, in those societies they believe that it helps a woman to control her desires and be more hygienic.  

   People always leap to the extreme forms of FGM but its far more complex than that.  

 Yes, and murder is several degrees worse than assault. They're both still illegal.  The principle is more important. You are permanently taking away a body part for no good reason, with no choice given to he who is losing the body part. It's insane. But see I have an issue with that like why is everything a competition all the time, I'm a feminist and I think like children shouldn't be allowed to even have an ear piercing until they are 16 let alone having their genitals fucked with without consent.. [This article sums it up pretty well I think](http://aeon.co/magazine/philosophy/male-and-female-circumcision-are-equally-wrong/) For some reason, I doubt they will concede and ask for aid. As a Korean... yup.

My mother never asks for things. She demands them. It's never "Can you get me a glass a water?" It's "Get me water." To be fair, politeness is interpreted differently in some Asian (Chinese in particular) cultures. I don't know if this is the case in South Korea of course.

The Atlantic wrote an interesting article about this, in particular this quote: "In India, peopleespecially when they are your elders, relatives, or close friendstend to feel that by thanking them, youre violating your intimacy with them and creating formality and distance that shouldnt exist."

Link: http://www.theatlantic.com/international/archive/2015/06/thank-you-chinese/395660/ No not at all that way in Korea. Half the time we say thank you when someone thanks us. "Thank you for your work." "Yes, thank you" "Thanks for the service." "No, thank you for the money. " Like Super Canada. Sorry. I'm sorry you're sorry... Sorry. I knew there was a reason the South Korean exchange students always fit in so well at my little Canadian high school. You guys are the Canada of Asia.  Not the way it works in Korea. You have to be extra polite and thankful to your elders as a way of showing respect to them. Have to address them in a formal manner as well even if the age difference isn't much, if they're your elder, you gotta speak with formalities.  My eastern european parents are exactly the same. They also absolutely hate asking for money/loan and would probably have to be close to dying to even consider it. And if they do, pay it sooner than soon. They are currently more pissed than usual because of the new UN office that opened in Seoul to monitor human rights issues in N. Korea.  They are definitely not asking anytime soon, at least publicly. My grandma always said "Kick'em when they're down, it's really only time you can kick someone." Granny sounds hardcore. That sounds similar to my search query last night (  ) That's a great granny face you got there. "We are perfectly willing to offer aid, you just need to ask for it..."

"Ok, now ask in a little girl voice" Say "I'm a little fat girl." Say it! For those who don't get this [dank reference](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Bb_KFpJBOUA).  [Full Show + Timeskip to the Bit that this video is from](https://youtu.be/pAHztHkVtd0?t=18m27s) ["I don't take money, only girly giggles."](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=i1YElXQOTD0) "I want my giggle back." *I have the silliest name in the galaxy!*

What's your middle name?

*Scooby dooby.*

Oobi Doob Scooby Dooby Benoobi?

 "Now do the Truffle Shuffle."

"Aww c'mon guys." "I just want everyone to know that I suck. And that I'm a girl, and that I like ribbons in my hair, and I want to kiss all the boys." - Grif [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] Silly South Koreans, The Supreme Leader controls the weather. "Papa? Why is The Supreme Leader sending this drought?"

"Don't worry, son. It's all part of Kim's Plan." In Kim we trust.  Kim works in mysterious ways. Kim took little Jimmy because he needed another angel in his sweatshop factory. only Kim can judge us. Pudge is a fish? ***LILO!*** Gotta say, I love whoever came up with that condition.

edit:Is telling someone to ask you for help before you give it such a major issue? Makes a fair amount of sense to me. Plus this way any blame falls solely on the NK leaders pride and nowhere else. NK's internal propaganda portrays SK as a "Yankee colony" whose citizens all want to reunify with the North (many do want to reunify, but certainly not on NK's terms, which of course NK doesn't mention).

Having to beg South Korea for food aid would blow the illusion apart. It's not like NK's citizens will know about it anyway. People underestimate the amount of information that gets in to North korea. 

There are several radio stations that blast world news right into North Korea from across the border, as well as rumours such as "Kim Jong Un's wife starred in a porn video". The rumour is now widespread throughout NK. 

EDIT: [I believe this is the documentary](http://video.pbs.org/video/2365155890/). If you're outside of America, use the extension 'ZenVPN' to use the website. Wait, how do *you* know this? He's a North Korean redditor. See? Point proven. In the words of president clinton, I did not have sexual relations with that despot's wife. Kim's wife starred in a porn video? Oh my god, that's disgusting. Where would she post those? On one of those disgusting korean dignitary porno sites? I mean there's so many of them though, which one? Which one did she post them on? damn, redtube has a korean section but I don't know which korea, i'm looking for north korea

please help Just search best Korea.
 TIL You can get a book called "only beautiful please" that are the thoughts and observations of the recent British diplomat to NK which is pretty enlightening (he lived there 5/6 years in total I think). The radios mentioned by speech are actually locked by the NK government but since the population makes them and its a simple "lock" its very easy to free them for all frequencies.

Interesting to note he found the last famine (90's) caused a massive social shift in NK, so it will be interesting to see what happens. In a totally detached, lots of people are dying kinda way What kind of social shift? Major loss of faith in the government. Previous issues had been sorted by Russia, which was spun internally as communist brothers working together etc etc. Early 90's Russia couldn't do this and a load of western NGO's and UN flooded the country. 

This was passed off in Pyongyang as reparations for the war mainly but the NGO's were largely denied access to the starving farming regions. Who obviously questioned the greatness and kindness of the government when everyone was dying. This bad news filtered back into the city and coupled with the increased flow of information from outside, SK really juggernauting away since the 70's and Kim jong il only just taking over the throne lead to a huge drop in "believers" of the propaganda that had until then kept a decent hold of the minds of the population. It's one of the reasons the NGO's got expelled again shortly after.


Tdlr of a few chapters of the book I mentioned and lacking a bit of context but hopefully makes sense. He attributes this famine as the main point of unravelling of the grip the government has had on the population. He doesn't argue it's going to fall anytime soon (and a third of the book is possible outcomes for NK) but definitely a shift that rather unsettled the country.

Apologises for formatting. Mobile I would love to see how NK would spin it if they did actually ask for help. Something along the lines, "We will accept your gift for repentance of your crimes against our weather." That's exactly what they said in the last famine in the 90's. It was US reparations for the war. 

The country has broken a bit further open since then however.  "Hey, hey, Kim, you want food and water?"  
"...yes"  
"Go on, say it. 'I, Kim Jong Un, ask South Korea, pretty please, for aid for my country' ".  
"I'm not going to say that."  
"Ok, no aid for you^uu^uu^uu!"  
"..." Hey, South Korea? Hi, Californian here. Could you, uhh.. Could you spare us some water too, since you're taking requests? Oh, you have plenty of water. Just tell the ranchers to move their beef industry to a state actually suited to the beef industry.  Dude....I'm originally from a cattle ranch in rural OK, and I drove through CA recently. I always thought those videos of the packed in farms were blown a bit out of proportion...but oh my god. Acres and acres of nothing but dust with thousands of head of cattle...it's absolutely deplorable. So are the conditions of a cow farm in OK a lot better? Kinda figured they all look like that There are several cow farms around where I live in IL. In all of them, the cows have a ton of space. Cows have so much space here in Illinois. 

Illinois: it's where the cows call home Where the fuck are you lot living in Illinois? Where I live, corn is king. 

I raise cattle for a living, and finding pasture is nearly my full time job. The northwestern part of the state has lots of cows. It's really hilly where northern Illinois borders Iowa and Wisconsin. Iowa, of course, being filled with corn and Wisconsin with cows. No, Texas cows live on verdant green pastures. At least for the past 30 years I've lived here.  Even in Hawaii, which is a tiny island chain, the cows have massive green pastures on Hawaii Island. Raising cattle like an asshole is definitely not a choice that Californians are forced into. I'm from Alabama and I was a teenager before I realized not all cows in the US lived on big, green, grassy fields eating only grass supplemented with hay.  Requesting pics if you find yourself going that way again! Just look up the ranch at coalinga, CA. That's the one everyone knows as they drive down I-5 Sweet Jesus I think I found it:

https://www.google.ca/maps/place/Coalinga,+CA+93210,+USA/@36.3040529,-120.2700314,1950m/data=!3m1!1e3!4m2!3m1!1s0x809341ffd6834e49:0xd0eb8b14273e7dd0!6m1!1e1?hl=en

Someone even added a location "cowschwitz". I've also heard it referred to as Dacow. Those are both terribly hilarious names

Treblincow?  I've driven by lots of Cattle farms but Holy shit.. this honestly makes me feel sick looking at this from Google street view, just packed to the fences with Cows as far as the eye can see.

edit: Found a photo - http://i.imgur.com/L3KxD7v.jpg Everyone mentions the ranches at Coalinga being all closed in, but I see cows everywhere in Central CA. They're all over the grassy hills along the 5. I was driving up the 1 to SF and there were cows on the fucking cliffs overlooking the ocean. Yeah, I know that. 

To everyone else: It's a big state, we have more than one farm... And to stop watering the fucking lawns. I grew up in San Francisco.

What the fuck are lawns? It's like a small golf course, only useless. Stop watering those too. Wildlife golf sounds like a *real* challenge anyways. I know the rules say play as it lies but the mountain lion just ate my ball! What do you want me to do? bludgeon the cat into the hole? You're just gonna have to wait until it poops. Play it were it lies. Actually I golfed with wildlife a lot. It's really fun until the foxes start stealing your golf balls. There's a gigantic pile of golf balls somewhere out in that forest and no one (that I know of) has come across it.

Also bears. Lots of bears, a little intimidating, but they don't give a crap about you. They just want to eat crab apples and take big shits. There were 10 bears all on one hole, just to the side of the fairway and my ball landed right next to them but in the center of the fairway. Still played my ball, albeit nervously. This is a good idea. They already have that it's called Chambers Bay I bet that would be a GREAT joke if one was into golf. If you watched the US Open they apparently did. &gt;useless

&gt;golf SoCal resident here. It's where you keep your rocks and dirt. Those giant green things that the people in Marin and Orange County have. Residencies account for less than 8% of California water consumption. Nearly all of it is industries and agriculture. They keep getting breaks for their consumption because they're bigger money makers, despite the fact that they can switch to more cost-effective and water-conserving methods. &gt;despite the fact that they can switch to more cost-effective and water-conserving methods

So what stops them? if it's cost effective, why would they not immediately switch?

 Things like drip irrigation are cost effective in the long run, but very expensive up front. It's just a matter of shortsightedness. Ah, the 'everything for the quarterly profits report' mentality... woo. It's a bit more than that.  There aren't many businesses that are cash solvent for a huge undergoing like what was mentioned.  The other option is, "Hey, let's divert 50% of our expenses to a new location and system.  Put payroll on hold."  How many employees would be ok with that? Another reason why I love reddit comments more than the articles themselves - come in for the *real* truth and/or gritty details, get distracted by puns and other silliness, and in the end land in a pit of sobering facts. 

I can't even read news sites without a comments section anymore, and it seems as if most sites with comment sections end up being youtube-esque in quality.

EDIT: As I responded somewhere else, true that a lot of comments are bullshit conjecture and bots pushing political/corporate agendas, which is why I think everyone highly values comments with links to "reputable" sources. I wish everyone would link and/or more subs would require expert-on-topic verification like over in /r/askscience. Regardless, I think most people would agree that the comments here are still generally better quality-wise compared to most other sites. I get that, though I distrust reddit comments in general more than the articles themselves, just because I've seen commentators be wrong so often. The best is when you get a chain of "experts" all saying the person above them is wrong...wtf are you supposed to think then? Well, short-sightedness and a lack of capital.  Say you have $5. 

You go to the store and see the food you want to buy at $5 a pound. 

Then you see another container that is $12 for 3 pounds. 

It is cost effective to buy the $12 container. But you don't have $12. You have $5. And you have to convince someone to give you $7 to get to $12. 

So you go to your buddies and say you'll all benefit if you pool the money to buy the big container (using tax money for public services). 

Your buddies each have $5. 

You convince one guy to give you $5 (the party you belong to), but that still leaves you $2 short. You need to get everyone on board or not take any of their money (getting a majority vote for a new tax). 

The other guy doesn't want to give you his share because he doesn't think you'll spend it the way he wants to spend it. 

So you're all stuck buying the $5 containers and have no money left over. If you worked together, you'd all have an extra $1. But no. 

That's the basics. Just because something is cost effective, that doesn't mean the money will be approved or that you even have the capital to put it in place to begin with.  Because, inevitably, [if you don't use it, you use lose it](http://www.propublica.org/article/killing-colorado-wasting-water-out-west-use-it-or-lose-it).  Water rights are a big deal west of the Rockies.  You don't give up water rights if you have a choice. less than 5% of total water usage is residential. That includes watering lawns.  You could turn every lawn into a damn swimming pool and it wouldn't make a difference compared to how much water the agricultural industry uses. Yeah! And stop growing 99 percent of walnuts, 97 percent of kiwis, 97 percent of plums, 95 percent of celery, 95 percent of garlic, 89 percent of cauliflower, 71 percent of spinach, 69 percent of carrots, and so on! &gt; 99 percent of walnuts

Meh.

&gt; 97 percent of kiwis

Meh.

&gt;97 percent of plums

Meh.

&gt;95 percent of celery

Meh.

&gt;95 percent of garlic

M....WAIT FUCK....California? What's your mailing address? I'd like to send you all my water. Gilroy, CA I stopped in Gilroy, CA (garlic capital of the nation and maybe world) once to have brunch. Driving into the town the first thing you notice is that your car's air vents start blowing garlic smelling air into your face. Then you pass out and never wake up, only to have garlic filled dreams for eternity. 

Brunch was pretty good.  whaaat noooo the garlic, take my* water from canada! That's sub-1% of where the water is going.

 *Mississippi and Louisiana both raise hands as high as possible* &gt; Just tell the ranchers to move their beef industry to a state actually suited to the beef industry.

Contrary to popular belief, California is more than San Francisco, San Jose, San Diego, and Los Angeles. Head about 2 hours east of any of those cities and you'd think you're in either a) Wyoming ranch country or b) an Alabama trailer park that had sex with Tijuana and had a baby named Fresno. Do the water problems magically vanish 2 hours east as well? No, but the tacos got better. &gt; Alabama trailer park that had sex with Tijuana and had a baby named Fresno.

Damn, that's it **exactly**. According to popular belief California is a 10 mile wide strip along the ocean.  Once I tried to tell people in GA that there were farms in CA and they said, "yeah surf farms." &gt; Wyoming ranch country minus precipitation

FTFY. Hey California...it hasn't stopped raining at my house in like 3 weeks. Im sending it all to Texas! Muahahahhaa

Edit: Last night we got 7.5 inches of rain at my house!
http://www.kcci.com/weather/big-rain-totals-rolling-in/33766654
 Poor, Texas they never saw it coming  We will take it! Lake Travis was down 57.29 feet in the beginning of this year, now its only down 10.29 feet. Also it was down 40-50 feet for the last 4 years.

Edit: [source](http://www.golaketravis.com/waterlevel/) As an austinite: *glub glub glub glug* Hey, California.  Illinoisan here.  I saw your message to South Korea.  We have plenty of water here.  Just get out and push your state closer. Dammit, now we got into a fender-bender with Nevada.  I hope they don't have a dash cam. Depends on what percentage of the population is Russian. The problem isn't the amount, the problem is moving it. Water is really fucking expensive to move. State With 800 Miles Of Coastline Unable To Find Water- Your governor just signed a $115.4 billion budget. I hope he included a couple desalination plants. And South Korea has 1500 miles of coastline. What's your point? Just because you have a coast doesn't mean droughts are a non-issue.

California's water issues are acute, due to a severe drought, rather than chronic. Between planning and zoning and construction, desalination plants take years to get fully operational and are among the more expensive ways to actually get water. When the drought ends (and it is a matter of when, not if) those desalination plants are going to be producing water that no muncipalities want to buy because it's twice the cost of reservoir water or recycled wastewater. As I've posted elsewhere in this thread, most of the top climatologists that have studied this drought believe it's just the beginning of a [megadrought that could last well into next century](http://news.nationalgeographic.com/news/2015/02/150212-megadrought-southwest-water-climate-environment/) like the one that led to the sudden disappearance of several societies in the Southwest 1,200 years ago. This isn't just any drought. It's a climate changing event. How awesome would it be to have a massive desalination plant and a great aqueduct transporting water from the coast to the fertile inland valley? I'm tired of fracking and oil pipelines. Let's do something good. Renewable energy and desalination would boost the world.  Desalination is incredibly, incredibly energy intensive on a large scale as far as I know.

A desalination plant is actually being built somewhere in California right now, but it will barely supply 10% of the water needs of the little town it's next to. [Carlsbad desalination plant.](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Carlsbad_desalination_plant) It should be noted that it will supply 7% of San Diego Metro's water needs, a population of nearly 3 million people. All said and done it will supply about 50 million gallons of potable water from 100 million gallons of seawater per day.  I didn't know that they achieved 500,000% efficiency. Desalination plants are not always so great. They have a tendency to wreck coastal marine ecosystems in the area because they dump huge amounts of concentrated brine into the water. " We will never ask for aid, but if it should happen that some imperialist puppets from the south should happen to leave some sorely needed humanitarian aid on our border, we would not open fire on them. " It's interesting to think that when North Korea finally drops the act and joins the rest of the world, their population will consist entirely of only the tiniest people who can survive on the least amount of food and the fattest people who hoarded it. Nah.  Even the fattest NKs are small by Walmart standards. Everything is small according to Walmart's standards Then there's Costco There's Texas big,then there's WalMart big, and then there's WalMart in Texas big. 

...and then there's OP's mom Not Polynesians. The moai aren't the only thing that's giant. This is an interesting point. I have Armenian ancestry and most of the people on that side of the family have heart problems, even though they are all thin. This is largely due to the fact that most of the Armenians that survived the genocide were better able to maintain fat stores. 

So by that same thinking; after the DPRK collapses the people there will likely have heart problems for generations as the ones that survived famine were able to keep enough fat to live. Yeah, I don't think so dude. Unless you were to cite a peer-reviewed medical journal, I wouldn't even begin to entertain that as a legitimate reason for the coincidence in your family health background. 

Source: Armenian from Armenia, and that side of the family likely has heart problems because they eat like shit -- being thin doesn't help when we drown everything in butter, have bread with every meal, and smoke 3 packs a day. 

We like to think we da best (better than DJ Khaled even) at connecting things to 1915, but this is uncharted territory.  [deleted] Thanks for that link. I was dying to know what that top comment was. You can read some more of the replies to that comment by going to a cached version of [this thread](http://webcache.googleusercontent.com/search?q=cache:xVT5_VvgEuYJ:www.reddit.com/r/worldnews/comments/3az73b/south_korea_says_it_will_send_aid_to_north_korea/+&amp;cd=1&amp;hl=en&amp;ct=clnk&amp;gl=us)

Edit: Cached version updated to after the comments were deleted. It's really sad that North Korea could be as beautiful and prosperous as South Korea except for a few decisions from the powers that be.  In the aftermath of the Korean War it wasn't immediately clear who was the best option. Both countries were dictatorships and North Korea actually had a higher standard of living until the 1970s. But people thought South Korea could have ended up a poor and exploited colony-like country, like the Philippines, not a dynamic economic powerhouse, like Japan. No one knew it would become an "Asian Tiger" and develop a democracy.  [It was a totally unexpected economic miracle, even more surprising than the Wirtschaftswunder that hit Germany after the Second World War.](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Miracle_on_the_Han_River)

A lot of people don't realize that South Korea used to be a dictatorship, like you said.  South Korea has a dark history of quelling democratic uprisings.  [It wasn't until the late 80s that South Korea had its first taste of democracy.](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/June_Democratic_Uprising) The yams?  Sick reference bro. Certainly, especially given the head start they would have had. When they split into two countries, North Korea was the richer and more industrial part of Korea. [Snapshot/mirror of the article since the site is getting the ol' reddit hug of death](http://i.imgur.com/AlvcoVG.png) Glorious Leader does not ask. Glorius Leader takes and pays the iron price. What is dead may never die.  Rises again fatter With broken ankles In the most passive aggressive way possible. Any idea what all these deleted comments are about? The comment was this http://gyazo.com/3b45069232a7ee83f4fc934762f8750f
credit : /u/advorange South Korea insults the Great Leader and continues stealing water from True Korea. So they're not going to get any assistance, then. &gt; North Koreas dramatic announcement regarding the drought was seen by many countries as a means of asking for help without actually requesting it outright.

"I-It's not like I need your help or anything! B-Baka!" I'm just saying, if you had any extra food or whatever, maybe I could haul it away for you /r/TsundereKorea I-it's not like I wanted this subreddit to exist or anything!! /u/Elimanni-senpai is such a baka! Now ask for it in a dog's voice. ruff arf heh heh heh heh Back in the early nineties, the Korean peninsula was experiencing a severe drought. Both North and South Korea had been suffering. North Korea, in a stunt dreamt up by the propagandists, offered substantial food aid to South Korea, assuming that the government of South Korea would be far too proud to accept. The government of South Korea, however, unlike the government of North Korea, was actually more concerned about the lives and well-being of its citizens than about the potentially damaging effects to its international reputation of accepting food aid from its greatest enemy. They accepted. 

North Korea, true to form, did indeed send the food aid, because not to have done so would have been a far more damaging blow to their public image than it was to South Korea to accept in the first place. However, of course, North Korea, with even less viable farmland then the South, was already actually in a worse position with regard to agricultural output. 

The result of sending much needed rice to South Korea was an acute exacerbation of an already severe problem, and a significant factor contributing not only to the famine that killed around 10 percent of the population during those years, but also to the near-complete collapse of the economy.

**CORRECTIONS: It was flooding in 1995 that caused the food crisis (well, precipitated it, anyway. The loss of food aid from Russia, then China, as well as a number of other factors should also be considered important causes.)**

**I can't find any sources online. Googling 'Korea' and 'food aid' only brings up predictable results. I know that I read it in the excellent book [*Under The Loving Care Of The Fatherly Leader*](http://www.amazon.com/Under-Loving-Care-Fatherly-Leader/dp/0312323220), but I can't help with a page reference.** Sounds plausible.  Source? First you read it and think, "no way", then you mix it with what you know about north korea, and go, "yep, i can see that happening" holy shit that is some buddhist master shit. 

the ultimate salvation by humility on the path to redemption.  [deleted]

[deleted]

[deleted] Why is there a string of hundreds of comments missing from the top of this thread? 


Edit-Ahh,  turns out that Ellen Pao doesn't like to be talked about.  You have been banned from /r/pyongyang. No more questions That is so fucking baller. Yeah Kim Jong un is a really humble guy. I'm sure he will ask... Bend the knee, North Korea! Holy fuck it's like comment D-Day, what the hell happened? I'm wondering the same too, maybe it's supposed to be serious or relevant comments only? It sounds like a good idea for Thailand to send some of those stockpiles of rice that their old gov't accumulated to somewhere that could use it, and all without damaging the value per kg of the rest of their rice reserves. Please send aid.  Thanks!

-California California here, we're not too proud to accept. Please send us water I love South Korea's trolling.

"What's that? You want food? We have food... just... kneel." The mentally sick leader might not ask for it.

But the dying poor poverty's cries won't be heard either. South Korea - [I like the way you beg boy](http://images.tvrage.com/news/django-unchained-a-look-at-the-tv-stars-in-quentin-tarantino-s-latest-film3.jpg) Touche SK Funny how they can "cure" cancer, yet can't seem to cure their thirst. thas one challenge that wont be accepted ...but you have to ask me nicely. It's going to be something like this: They'll secretly ask the south korean govt for food then after they get it, they will announce to the world that they demanded food and got it from south korea. 

Then the north korean govt will write to their people that kim jong un loved the north korean ppl so much that he hand picked all the individual rice grains for 29 hours a day, 7 days a week for a month. When asked about how he got the extra 5 hours, he will say the scientists who worked on the new cancer cure found out that if they if they mixed in the ginseng at a certain time and temperature, it would re arrange the md5 hash in the cellular structure of the ancient chinese herb and would actually reverse time but only for about 5 hours. Any longer and it would implode the earth and destroy all man kind as we know it. (sorry for my bad english) Oooohhh shit. South Korea playing the disappointed mother card.  I can only imagine if they would then NK's headlines would read "FEARLESS LEADER COMMANDS SOUTH KOREA TO FORFEIT ALL WATER" I don't support this, its long known that NK officials seize any and all aid sent to them and distributes it amongst their failing regime.

Any and all aid is only ever used to prolong their regime, it should be allowed to fail.

It sounds cold but nations like these don't change until things become untenable helping them to sustain their dictatorial and outright maniacal regime is wrong.

Don't give them dick. The first step towards recovery is admitting you have a problem. It's a shame that most of the aid probably won't even be distributed to the common people. Instead we get to fill Kim Jong Un's plate for the next few years. While he will certainly be the top priority. Thing is, he has food, will always have food. Making the country starve wont change that, the poor and those who work the hardest will suffer the most. they may chose to build nukes over feeding the people. But if the food is of aid and is there at no cost. I dont see why he would starve his people while storing away tons of food to go to waste and get expired. He wants to appear as a supreme leader who can provide South Korea is being such a dick. Why are the demanding so much? You have been made moderator of /r/pyongyang Oh my, people didn't get the sarcasm The fact that that comment needed a /s is baffling  The fuck happened with the top comments  Turkey is just getting worse under the rule of erdogan. and then you read comments of turks in Germany saying: if we critizise him he must be doing everything right.

yeah. The Turks in germany are a real odd lot. Most turks have a hard time relating to them they are stuck in some strange cultural time warp / identity dillemma That is simple. In Germany, they are seen as "turks" because of their appearance and in Turkey they are seen as "germans" because of the way they speak or interact with people. So they kind of do not belong to either nation or culture completely. So ofc they have an identity crisis. This also applies to other people aside from turkish people.  also I think especially with Turkish (or Germans with Turkish heritage) people the problem was the creation of housing districts in which almost exclusively Turkish workers (and their families) were put in.

so those quarters became "self-affirmating" in the sense that the people that moved here in the 60s and 70s didn't really witness a lot of the social changes that took place during the next decades in Turkey. [deleted] That sounds really awful, especially if parents leave their kids behind for their own sake. That's very right and it doesn't only apply to Turkish people. The consequences are that when their home country socially evolve (abandon strict religion, rights of women etc.), immigrants tend to keep the old traditions and sometimes even practising them more than originally. They also disconnect with the authorities that regulate the traditions. This is a reaction to keep their identity that they've partially lost.  That's how I feel as a Mexican in America. Where do you live? I work in many agriculture plants across the country, I have been to them in just about every state. And one thing seems to be the most common. Mexicans. Loud, happy, laughing families and groups of Mexicans. I swear to god, the most happy people I see in my life are Mexicans standing around on break at food plants. They are always smiling and joking with each other. Then you look over at the black and white maintenance guys and they are usually complaining about something. 

Maybe when they get home from work they suffer from identity problems. But when I see them these people seem to be living to the dream.  I'm joking mostly, but I live in LA and don't work in agriculture. I am proud of both being mexican and american, but people don't like it if I say that. I'm proud of being Jewish and American. Having two identities is American as hell. Yeah! I'm proud of being white and American!!
Oh, did I go too far? [deleted] Why would Turks in Germany serve in the Turkish military? I thought they were supposed to be "German". Dual citizenship they dont throw them around as much anymore. I think post 2000 born gets a german one and before that you had to decide. I think I had to pick at 18 but the older generation had better chances at having both  German born turks, yes, but you have to spend some time here so your children are born legally German, and the rules sometimes change a bit (a good friend of mine has three kids, and only the youngest is legally German!). So Turkey *will* want you in the Military , unless you can give their bribe money.  I am dual citizen with two older brothers having served social service in Germany. This service ended in Germany a while ago and according to law the third male child doesn't have to do any service in Germany. However since I am half Turkish and turkey doesn't have any contract with  germany about these situations they want me to do military service. I am now delayed for service until 38, latest age to enter military. Its weird....I have never lived in turkey, don't even speak the language really and have in general little to do with them. I will have the option to pay out maybe or give away citizenship. There are very few cases like that.

 Honest question. I'm curious myself. My country doesn't have military, so I don't know if you get expatriated or something.
 Can't you just tell the Turkish government to fuck off? Or will they come after you? 

You'd be fine, unless you would enter Turkey? Or do you still have family there you have to visit? A little late maybe. My dad did that. Told them to fuck off. My grandma got sick, he went back when he was 47. They forced him to do the military service. 47 years old.  This is the thing  I hate most about Turkish people living in other countries. I live in the Netherlands and while alot of Turkish people act like Turkey is so much better than here, they still skip military service and visiting family in Turkey. What the fuck dudes..  on the flip side: I'm dutch and I have been living in Turkey for the past two years, I honestly think most (new generation) Dutch Turks have no idea what it is like to live in Turkey.

I mean I enjoy living here (istanbul), but it's definitely not better than the Netherlands in a lot of ways. by that I mean politically and socially. Turks are a lot more hospitable and warmer than the Dutch, I'll definitely give them that.

&amp;nbsp;

edit: I've talked about this in different threads before as well but in my experience with both actual turks and dutch-turks; the dutch-turks are (or act) a lot more turkish than actual turks. Most of my friends here would probably leave if they had the chance, and there is probably also a reason why all these dutch-turks don't go back to turkey, which is weird since the country is so much better in their opinion. 

to reiterate: I absolutely love living here and istanbul is an amazing city, but I can also leave whenever I want, and life as a foreigner here is indubitably different and more pleasant.   To be fair, I found Belgium to be close to the low end on the warm scale. At least in the countries I visited so far, it's a contestant for "worst country to get to know natives beyond superficial interaction".  I found that Switzerland won that title. I got back to the States and people were just talking to me when we were in line together in the airport, it was amazing.  Haha this strikes home with me, I'm dutch and yesterday someone on the buss struck up a conversation with me, that's never happened in my whole life!  &gt;I can also leave whenever I want

Lucky your hotel is not in california Wow thats pretty interesting seeing it in reverse, hope you continue to enjoy your time there. Same logic with putin. Uneducated people seem to be that way everywhere. my wife has been saying that for years. the uneducated masses will bring turkey down That's the beauty of democracy. &gt; Democracy is the theory that the common people know what they want, and deserve to get it good and hard.

H. L. Mencken Which is why you need a properly constructed republic with checks and balances.  Not sure how checks and balances will fix it though.

In a democracy, people get the leaders they deserve. Fortunately, most countries are now oligarchies and get the leaders they can afford. The best democracy money can buy. I mean look at the parade of people who want to be presidents of the United States... surely the koch brothers could do better with all the money they have. Just to humor us, you know?  Right our system is good at preventing populist dictators from taking control but the voting system leads to two party gridlock and elections are controlled by money. We need proportional representation, a ranked voting system and campaign financing controls. Careful what you wish for. Until recently I thought I had a great idea for reforming the voting system until I realized it went too far and eliminated the greatest advantages of things as they are: Voting *against* the other party, preventing extremes in ideology, and ensuring an opposition party exists at all. The voting system we have right now is fine, what keeps bringing us down are those uneducated fuckers who don't even bother voting. Last presidential elections had like 40% Americans who did not vote. **Forty-fucking percent** Almost half of our citizens did not vote.


We no longer trust the government.  People refuse to vote since they don't think their vote will change anything. They haven't had the proper education on the voting system to know that their vote could make a huge difference on this nation.

Schools need to start teaching kids essential subjects like voting from a very young age to get rid of this mentality where we see the government as bad.

The government isn't bad, people are. Politicians are people and will naturally become corrupt with greed and power if we allow them to. Voting prevents this.

Those who are born without any wealth don't think they have power to change a damn thing. They've grown up watching the vast amounts of corruption in this nation  and they've lost hope in the government, but they don't realize that by not doing anything they're making things worse.

We will never have the perfect politician. They will all have their flaws because they're human, which is why voting is there to prevent corruption. 

These politicians are not being picked by the common man, they're being elected by the few people who realize the impact voting can have and they're using it to their own advantage.

tl;dr stop blaming the government &amp; vote! I'm curious about the thought behind this. Care to elaborate? Ranked voting system? For example:

http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Single_transferable_vote

Check out the classic video from CGP Grey:

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=s7tWHJfhiyo Lack of education can breed corruption in almost any government. Tribalism is what breeds corruption.  You look after your family and to hell with everyone else. You don't trust anyone outside your family.  Much of the world is like this.  Somehow northern Europe became high trust/low corruption, but I don't know how long this can last with tribal people pouring in. Yep, 62% of South Africans back home voted for the corrupt ruling party who are stealing the country dry. dont you dare saying that name publicly. ! he is a real democrat.

In my ass Like they always say:

"Vote with your *head*, not with your *heart*." Anal [Democracy]? Shush, this isn't tradechat. BY ODIN'S ASS, DID SOMEONE MENTION [\[Thunderfury, Blessed Blade of the Windseeker\]](http://www.wowhead.com/item=19019/thunderfury-blessed-blade-of-the-windseeker)? Anal [hamstring] I don't get what you are saying, could you explain it to me? In germany are turks that support erdogan, due to his (illegal) campaigning here. If the german press critizises Erdogan , which they do fairly regularly those turks will say:" well if you ( the press- and we  germans) critizise Erdogan, he must be doing everything right. ( the logic is that you are only successfull of you have people who envy you.

But the logic is pointless and wrong.
First of all, the german media critizises: everyone. So everyone is successfull? Well ISIS isnt to my knowledge. Farage ( the Briton who wanted to exit the EU) is neither.

The same, as another comment points out is true for Russia. Many(some) russians living in the west view Putin as a great leader (WTF) and think that his intervention on Krim was good and that economy as well as politics is on a good way in Russia. 

You could equally say that the 1.9.1939 was good for world piece.

Direct Edit.

http://i.imgur.com/bTuDEhW.jpg

Article:

Die Welt.

Erdogan to lose mayority in election

First comment:

You only say that because he is successfull and advanced turky.

 The reply from DIE WELT is pretty gold though.

My German is a bit rusty but it goes like:

"Naturally. We are actually in kindergarten. And Erdogan has the largest [form](https://blog.etsy.com/en/files/2013/07/etsy-sprinklebakes-sandcastle-howtuesday-materials.jpg). And therefore we are sulking. Buh-hu." Die Welt is pure gold. oftentimes hilarious comments in their Facebook feed are only by them. 

because they are the only ones nit serious.  Thats a perfect example that parody is a basic human need. Someone got to make fun of the idiots. If Die Welt does it themselfes good enough, nobody else got to. I believe we had a similar thing in Ireland in years gone by.  If the British press criticised our country as a clergy infested backwater (which we really obviously were) well then it's our right to be like that as a free country!  Fuck off Britain, we don't have to listen to you anymore! We have the same mentality here in Belgium. European turks seem so pro erdogan even tho he is antidemocratic.  It's easy for them; they don't have to live with him. They can just sit back and feel like he's putting Turkey on the map or something. - "Erdoan is best leader" ~Any foreign source
- Erdoan's supporters: "WORLD LEADER ERDOAN"

---

- "Erdoan is worst dictator" ~Any foreign source
- Erdoan's supporters: "Imperialists realized how powerful our leader is and started to fear how powerful Turkey will become under his ruling so they are trying to bring him down"

---

- "&lt;Leader of opposing political party&gt; is a joke" ~Any foreign source
- Erdoan's supporters: "See? he's a worldwide joke"

---

- "&lt;Leader of opposing political party&gt; would be better for a healthy democracy in Turkey" ~Any foreign source
- Erdoan's supporters: "Ha! I always knew he is supported by forces of Imperialism"


Edit: "Everyone" -&gt; "Erdoan's supporters" (sorry to those I offended) Every Turk I've met in the United States hates Erdogan.  Did the conservative Turks go to Europe, and the liberal ones cross the Atlantic? The ones that are living in Germany are the poor Turks from Eastern Turkey that came here for work. The qualified Turks are moving to the United States. Not every turk in germany is pro erdogan...many are against him but the problem is they are german citizen...cant vote like me!  they live in germany in peace. they make lots of money -comparing to us. they come turkey for vacation and spend their "lots" of money. they praise erdoan and akp. they vote for him. but they never ever ever gonna live in turkey. they never come for living their most beloved country. because they are so comfy at that enemy and jealous germany. 

as a trk living in trkiye, i hate'em. Gone! Gone! The rule of man. Rise, the despot Erdogan!  +100 points for the Etrigan reference Na'w man, everyone knows the best way they could have proven it wasn't fraud, was to violently force the observers out of there. Upvoted for introducing a novel kind of logic. I hope this catches on and we'll see how life changes to the better for everyone everywhere.. just imagine erdoan lost %9.5 and got 150 seats less than what he wanted. So, we hope tomorrow will be better than yesterday. Erdogan just lost majority rule. Check the results. I applaud this Swedish group for going out of their way to monitor and help the fucked up democracy in our fucked up country. and we never heard from /u/surfe again.
 I was working. 

 That's exactly what a hitman would say...  Election fraud in Turkey is like the Armenian genocide, everyone is aware of it but recognizing it is a crime in Turkey. I'll never understand this. Does the present government have anything to lose by recognizing such an old genocide? They have to know that they are punishing people for telling the truth. Yes. Coming from my second generation immigrant friends; Most of these Arab/middle east cultures are so thick with saving face at all costs. 

While turkey isn't exactly known for honor killings it's still got an extremely prideful cultural bent that makes admitting shame impossible.

Japan is similar in many ways, the media does not have tabloid like criticism of the government either. You can't even directly state displeasure publicly, you have to say indirectly some people may find xyz disagreeable etc.


Ancient cultures sometimes develop very bad rules that create nasty issues.
 [shame culture](http://i.imgur.com/Wt49KU0.jpg) I've heard of guilt cultures vs. shame cultures before, but I never really understood the difference until now. This helps a lot. Probably the best way I've ever seen these compared. Never had it described as a difference between guilt and shame.  Too bad the chart is terribly formatted. Spent more time trying to figure out how it was supposed to be read than being actually informed. [How's this?](https://imgur.com/HtZGpXO) It's great. You are a super cool dude/gal. What's so bad about it? It's just Punnett squares with words instead Just the positioning of the 'I believe I am' probably throws it off for some. Yes. 100 times yes. Horrible. True, I can see that! The color, the layout of the stacked squares. We can do better https://jsfiddle.net/cogycyue/2/embedded/result/ Doing god's work son. We bring dishonour upon the chart maker! Any real way to prove this kind of dichotomy exists? Serious here. It looks like a good chart, but as all things in sociology, I think this is kind of too simplistic. I think the point is that it is the general idea. Of course a lot of people will feel guilt or shame to varying degrees. The relevant info from the graphic is the one that shows if you believe you are guilty but others think you are not.  china is similar, at least in matters of state.

thats where the expression "saving face" comes from, iirc, chinese immigrants in america.

its the old idea of the ideology (or in this case the country) being bigger than any one person, so people do things to keep the ideology intact.

we had/have it to some degree in the west, with the church and dogma.

it ignores that the larger ideas are meaningless, if they dont hold up in the smaller areas as well, cause those are small, and hence viewed as insignificant in comparison to "the greater truth". :S Not just church and dogma, the code of chivalry and honour spawned up again in early modern Europe (17-18th century) when it took form in duels by nobility and spread to upper class citizens, seems that dueling fell out of fashion at about mid-19th century in England and turn to 20th century in Continental Europe, it seemed to mainly be a result of public opinion over legislation if Wikipedia is to be believed, anyone else that can shed some more light into it, I would be genuinely interested to learn more.
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Duel
 When my father was working in Japan he found the only way to get honest feedback from Japanese subordinates was to go out and get very drunk with them.  At least then that was the loophole there, once you were plastered you weren't held accountable for whatever was said.

When my mother had Japanese guests they would sometimes phrase things as questions like, "Does your cat get on the table sometimes?" and that would be code for "Your cat is on the table right now eating the fancy desserts I brought to share."  But I don't think that way of phrasing things could be used for anything much more major than that. Actually this is well known. I used to work for a Japanese company and the Japanese do this on purpose as well.

You have to get the last guy to agree to something or nothing gets done (when there is any kind of group discord on a project or subject). Everything must be unanimous or it stays in limbo. 

So they get plastered after working 110 hour weeks and engage in debauchery. 

Most fucked up thing about Japanese culture in general is just how dysfunctional that communication is and also that there is just no personal shame. 

People literally have no personal shame but much public shame. All that matters is what people think not your actions or anything else.

That's why they overwork themselves but have no better productivity then any other cultures and the suicide rates are high while the birth rates are low. 

All that faux "respect" is just second nature...no one really thinks about it or cares about each other genuinely any more than western cultures...they just make more grandiose displays of "respect" out of cultural pressures. &gt;Ancient cultures sometimes develop very bad rules that create nasty issues.

Tell me about it! What on earth did they thought that ripping out hearts would please the sky serpent god. They got fucked either way. Well with that it's really about struggling to feel in control with things you don't understand.

Uncertainty is the root of all anxiety and the human brain is not adept at dealing with that. 

People say these traditions were about controlling people but the people go willingly... Everyone just wants certainty, even if it's bad news. Quetzalcoatl, the Aztec Plumed Serpent? Nah man, he was the one who *insisted* on no sacrifices for him. You're thinking the sun and war god Huitzilopochtli. Turkey has acknowledged the historical fact that a crime against humanity took place against the Armenians, the contention that Turkey has is about being held responsible, in terms of reparations, for actions taken by the Ottoman Empire.

Armenia seeks reparations in the form of land and payments and wishes to bring Turkey in front of the International Court of Justice. Due to sovereign immunity, the ICJ can only try Turkey if both Armenia and Turkey consent to it or have some agreement/framework in place to allow it and that's why Turkey maintains its position.

Sources for further reading:

Parliamentary Bill to demand reparations from Turkey:

http://asbarez.com/blog/archives/79833

FAQ from FRA about reparations from Turkey:

http://www.sdpa.org/faq.html

Ankara Conference regarding reparations:

http://asbarez.com/blog/archives/79973

Armenian Weekly on the issue of reparations:

http://armenianweekly.com/2010/05/06/reparations-2/
 dude the real problem isn't just pride: it's reparations. if the turkish government legally recognizes that the genocide was a thing, then they will probably be obligated to pay the descendants in money and land. 

and also the thing is that the turkish government, and many turks, says that because the armenians teamed up with the russians against the ottomans, it wasn't a genocide because it wasn't out of nowhere. to the turks, it does not matter that it was literally a government-directed order to death march armenians into the desert: what matters is that it was justified. 

pride is a serious business here.  There's nothing that would legally obligate them to pay reparations, but it might look bad if they didn't at least make some token gesture of reparation so there might be social pressure.

The Armenians living in the Ottoman Empire didn't team up with the allies until *after* the death marches. This is just denialist bs that attempts to rationalize the genocide. There were way more Armenians serving in the Ottoman Military than there were agitators before 1915. The problem was that the government was paranoid and didn't want Armenians around anyway if they won the war.

At any rate, it's impossible to argue that mass murder and rape of women, children and old people serves any strategic purpose, or that it could ever be called justified. Most of the men were killed before the death marches even started. The narrative in pretty much every country is "we're the good guys, you can trust us, unlike those others" which is a good basis for governments to exploit the patriotism of their citizens. Acknowledging past atrocities by their own people does a lot of damage to that idea. Got to say, I like my education for that(Belgium).

Leopold 2?(our second king). Probably biggest mass murderer in the 19th century.

Also gave us a lot of riches of course, goes without saying. Not belgian but I am pretty sure you are referring to Leopold the 2nd Fucking Christ, trust me, not the first time I confuse those 2. If I think for a bit I obviously know who is who but without doing so I keep confusing them. Thanks. Well, at least his kingdom got burned by the Germans in WW1. I have nothing against Belgium or the Belgian people, just Leopold. Then again, is that thing of having black people in zoo exhibits in the 1950s really true, or is that just BS? "The concept of the human zoo has not completely disappeared. A Congolese village was displayed at the Brussels 1958 World's Fair.[16] In April 1994, an example of an Ivory Coast village was presented as part of an African safari in Port-Saint-Pre, near Nantes, in France, later called Plante Sauvage.[17]"

Less "omg black people" and more a village exhibit I would say.

See.

"An African village, intended as a craft and cultural festival, was held in Augsburg's zoo in Germany in July 2005 and subject to widespread criticism.[18] In August 2005, London Zoo displayed four human volunteers wearing fig leaves (and bathing suits) for four days.[19] In 2007, Adelaide Zoo ran a Human Zoo exhibition which consisted of a group of people who, as part of a study exercise, had applied to be housed in the former ape enclosure by day, but then returned home by night.[20] The inhabitants took part in several exercises, much to the amusement of onlookers, who were asked for donations towards a new ape enclosure. In 2007, Pygmy performers at the Festival of Pan-African Music were housed (although not exhibited) at a zoo in Brazzaville, Congo.[21]" Same deal with supporting Sunni insurgents in Syria Turkey's Godwin's Law in action again.  Gone are the days of Turkey being a bastion of secular democracy in the region. This election at gunpoint will be the final nail in the coffin. The biggest worry would be if HDP doesn't get at least 10% of the vote. If they do get 10% (and it's very likely they will), it would be near impossible for AKP to get the 330 votes they need in the Grand National Assembly to make the reforms to the constitution that would grant Erdogan more power. In fact, it's possible they will even fail to get 276 seats to hold a majority.

Edit: According to the [results so far](http://www.hurriyetdailynews.com/election/default.html), HDP will cross the 10% threshold, AKP will not get a single party majority, and a coalition government is very possible. seems like they have it. thank fuck As a foreigner, who is HDP and why do they need to get 10% of the vote? HDP is the People's Democratic Party, led by Selahattin Demirtas and Figen Yuksegdag. They're a progressive party with a humanitarian platform: raise minimum wage, greater emphasis on women's rights (their party has nearly 3x as many women as any other) and LGBT rights, etc. Demirtas is Kurdish, a 'controversy' too complicated to go into now, but basically that's where a lot of his support comes from.

In order to be able to be represented in parliament, a party must receive at least 10% of the votes, otherwise those seats are allocated to another party, in this case AKP. This was especially shocking in [2002](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Turkish_general_election,_2002) when five parties that were represented in 1999 failed to reach the threshold, giving unprecedented power to AKP.

Edit: /u/cbt13 explained the party situation much more eloquently than I. We have 4 major parties. 

AKP is with Erdogan, the ruling party. They are islamist and not secular. They pose as secular, they do a few minor secular stuff but in majority they are islamist and rightist.

Next biggest party is CHP. CHP was founded by Ataturk, who ended Ottoman Empire and brought democracy. Nowadays CHP is as bad as AKP and they don't even accept it. They claim they are left party but really, they are not. They would even be considered rightist in most European countries.

Next one is MHP. Bunch of nationalist racist bastards.

And next one is HDP. They welcome all people from all ethnicities and they are against every non-democratic formation. They don't even have a party leader, they have 2 leaders with equal rights, one male one female. The whole party is 50% male 50% female. They have members from all religions and atheists too.  Somehow I see some bias here.. I wonder. 
HDP is often mentioned with PKK and pro calan.  Look, MHP are basically fascists, so that's accurate to anyone not in Golden Dawn in Greece.  The description of the AKP is not controversial among those who see some kind of secular democracy as better than a theocracy.  CHP is described in a biased manner, but they have moved substantially rightward compared to what their membership in the Socialist International would indicate.  They are somewhere between New Labour and Milliband for a Brit and perhaps on the order of Obama's centrist Democrats in the U.S.  That's a rough explanation.

I agree that HDP is by far the most forward thinking party compared to the political and religious climate now operating in Turkey. I also think that their policy positions are the most agreeable for most non-Turkish redditors (pro LGBT rights, pro minimum wage increase, pro-Kurdish tolerance, secular, highly tolerant of equal rights between sexes in a nation that is rather known for its misogyny, pro-economic reform) though they are economically to the left, perhaps a more mainstream version of SYRIZA. they did tho Yes, in the time that has passed since I posted my comment, HDP surpassed the 10% threshold. [deleted] It's kind of a relative measure in the ME.  Yeah, the bar really wasn't set too high.  His name is James Cameron... [the bravest pioneer](http://youtu.be/67MRiMT9cnE) They were in their region. Not that sure, there are many variables in play..

Believe me, this way or another this is the most tense day in the history of Turkey....

Also, if I may be bold, this highly effects many international issues:

- Russia &amp; European energy policies 

- Syria &amp; middle east overall

- Iraq &amp; kurds

If Erdogan comes out of this with enough power to change the constitution for his liking, implement a presidential system. He will grow even bolder about these subjects. Lol wtf are you talking about this election turned out to be a huge downfall for the ruling party. I love the number of upvotes that comment is getting as well Today I voted for the first time. The committee responsible for counting the votes  in my ballot box looked shady  as hell, they were AKP supporters for sure. I stayed until 7 PM to observe them while they counted the votes. I was expecting some resistance and BS like the kind in the article, but to my surprise, they allowed everyone to sit there and watch them do their thing.  

This kind of shit still happens in the lawless part of the nation (the East). Both AKP and HDP (the Kurdish party) are known for using coercion and committing fraud, but it certainly isn't the norm.

As for  the result, all but 40% of the nation is pretty happy now because AKP's days as the majority party are over. As a Turkish citizen, i really appreciate your effort on waiting there until 7 p.m. Personally i was too lazy to move my ass for counting and protecting the votes. 


Well, that shit is over and i'm happy as fuck Erdogan will end up like Morsi. Turkey has a much stronger tradition of a secular military than even Egypt. He can only piss on Ataturk's grave for so long. The AKP has been systematically neutering the military's command and control structure for a decade now.   This is disheartening. Is there no hope for the military putting an end to this madman's reign? You know things are fucked in your country when its disheartening to find that a military coup is unlikely. This comment makes me want to laugh and cry at the same time. you know things are bad when people think a military coup is good.  Has there ever been a military coup that was actually good for the people or country? Serious question. the portuguese coup of 1974 was pretty good i might say,  it brought democracy But led to the abrupt dropping of Mozambique and Angola from Portuguese control and led to major fucked up situations in those countries  the situation was already fucked up there,  we were in a war agaist separatist rebels for a long time,  and the portuguese coup was welcomed there because it meant the end of the war and independece,  not our fault the several groups started fighting one another,  blame that on the cold war,  with the more left groups being supported by the ussr,  and the other group by the usa,  see the angola civil war In Turkey a lot. That's mostly because the military has always been very secular but the government is repeatedly taken over by religious extremists.

I think it's happened at least 3 times now. I did a comparative study of the military ousters in Haiti, Chile, Ethiopia and Guinea-Bissau a year ago and some of the coups in Guinea-Bissau (there are... many of them to say the least) ousted some pretty nasty dudes. The military only stepped in to replace the current government with one more favorable to their aims, but they did oust some bad dudes nevertheless. Depends on what you value more. There was a coup in South Korea in the 1960s which was able to turn the country around economically, shift political focus away from reunification to building international allies, and substantially raised the standard of living in the country. I wouldn't say that it was good for democratization or a lot of other things, but some good certainly did come out of it. 

Coups can also be good in a different way. Soviet chairman Yeltsin had put into effect several reforms in the 1980s and early 1990s, changing things enough that conservative members of the military and KGB tried to pull a coup in 1991. Called the August Coup, it failed entirely and directly precipitated the independence of several of the Soviet Republics, the decline of Gorbachev's political power, and the dissolution of the USSR. So yes, for Estonia and Latvia the failed coup was a great thing.  As a Turk, I can say no. There has never been one that was good. The privileged secular Turks, are nostalgic about the good old days but for everybody else it was a nightmare. Torture, disappearances, out right assassinations were aplenty. Depending on how you view the situation in Egypt, the military coup might've been a good thing? The 1989 Paraguay coup apparently is one. http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Andr%C3%A9s_Rodr%C3%ADguez_(President)#Rodr.C3.ADguez_presidency ... maybe I don't think coup d'tats typically end up strengthening democracy.  I'll take secular military rule over fundamentalist Islamic rule any day or century.  Having that said, the Turkish military views (viewed?) its mission statement as protecting democracy as Ataturk intended. Viewed.  The secular turkish military ranks were purged years ago by the current administration to prevent such a coup from taking place in 2011: http://www.huffingtonpost.com/2012/09/21/turkey-military-coup-plot_n_1904363.html

Then another round of purges did the same to police forces last year:
http://www.reuters.com/article/2014/08/05/us-turkey-police-detentions-idUSKBN0G50GJ20140805

Ataturk's vision of Turkey is pretty much over at this point. Turkey is a weird country in that regard, where it actually typically did. However it is still not a good precendent to set, but in this case it might not be so bad. Seculer ones at high rank eliminated and erdogan installed a yesmen  He already gutted the military of any officers that might oppose him. He was smart enough to see that coming.  The first thing Erdogan did was take to preemptively take out the military, throwing a number of officers and higher level folks in jail.

He learned from Turkey's history of coup's against those who threatened its constitution and took out the threat well in advance. It should have made his intentions plainly obvious, but it's the Turks fault for not noticing or caring to do anything about it while they had time. Now they've reached the 11th hour. The secular military is no more, all the top brass has been put in place by Erdogan. ERDOGAN'S PARTY WILL BE UNABLE TO FORM THEIR OWN GOVERNMENT! Iktidari bitti ! 
English Source: http://www.hurriyetdailynews.com/election/default.html
 SO SAY WE ALL.

/r/Turkey is so happy right now theres *almost* no hate at all.

edit: nvm just got burned there again. I dont even know why I try.

edit2: I thought his nick was referring to http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gaius_Baltar I'm not familiar with Turkish political bureaucracies.

How does this work? Is his party still the majority party? They cannot form a government themselves and wont be able to pass any laws by them selves anymore cos they dont have enough votes. What a fucking victory. I have been waiting this day for so long.... Cue official statement claiming it was an "isolated incident" Isolated or not, people in this thread pretend that these elections were held at gunpoint. Erdogan's party failed to keep the Kurdish party below 10% which was one of their main goals, and is at this point guaranteed to lose majority in parliament. 

This result wouldn't be even remotely possible if they had such control over the elections as is suggested in this thread. The results are also within the margin of error of pre-election polls. 

Overall seems like a good day for Turkish democracy and I'm glad that it's possible that they'll be getting a pro-EU coalition (though AKP &amp; MHP may be able to form one as wel, we'll see). Most people here seem to only be reactionary to the title without knowing fuck all about the parties in Turkey or the preliminary results of the election or anything really about Turkey other than the recent headlines about Erdogan. Swede here and a translation of the linked newspaper DN.se article.
Sorry for any spelling errors in the text but it's late here and I'm very tired after a 12hr shift, but I made  sure that appart from spelling errors the translation is true.

https://drive.google.com/file/d/0B4FIHPYWP9_ZS05IMld2ZUZldFU/view?usp=sharing
 Bad mouthing of everything Swedish by Erdogan in 3, 2, 1.... Guys, guys!

As r/worldnews for once please don't jump aboard this hyperbolic bullshit train.

Yes, Erdoan Sucks. For most of you we Turks suck as well. 

But! Today, we told Erdoan we are not with him in his grandoise delusions. His party doesn't have the absolute majority in the parliament for the first time in 13 years.

I, as the Turkish political nomenclature defines a white Turk, voted for the Kurdish party. They succeeded in overcoming the ridiculous election treshold. Actually WE succeeded overcoming the ridiculous election treshold.
This is a minor victory, but its a fucking start nonetheless.

Still ruling party's (Erdoan's) votes are from the people exactly like some (most?) of you. People who have about 3% percent knowledge and a whole lot of shits worth of opinion. Please don't do that, please please pleease read, ask, think before forming an opinion.

I'm drunk on joy, hope, beer and rak. I'd rather have you people on board with the hope i'm feeling rather than damning us. I hope this can still be an islamic (I'm an agnostic atheist btw) country, upholding laicism, facing with past, rather grave mistakes.  Even with the cheating, Erdogan still lost. Next Erdogan will be posting in /r/me_irl I can't believe that nobody here has mentioned the most important thing about keeping the votes down for Erdoan.  If his AK party wins enough of the votes, then they will be able to change the constitution to make it so Erdoan's mostly-ceremonial title (President) has a whole lot more power, letting him have much greater influence over the country.  He's been in power since 2003 (first as Prime Minister and now as President) and is basically trying to become a dictator. Is it common practice for Swedish delegations to observe foreign elections on-site, or is it just because Erdogan is a corrupt asshole? I believe it's pretty standard practice to have foreign observers in big election. Sweden and Turkey are both members of the [OSCE](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Organization_for_Security_and_Co-operation_in_Europe), which has a sort of election monitoring exchange program. They have [a delegation](http://www.osce.org/odihr/elections/turkey/153806) there for the Turkish election.

However, these particular monitors appear to have been a separate delegation associated with the Swedish Left Party; no idea what sort of authority they're there on. It is common practise , we ( turks )send obsservers to other nations also Chill the fuck down, guys. Erdogan's party lost its absolute majority in todays elections. So democracy is still functioning very well. Reddit loves to dramatize turkey's situation. I hate it when people think they know everything just by reading an article on the internet. .. &gt; Reddit loves to dramatize ~~turkey's~~ any and every situation.

 And yet the ruling AKP still lost the parliamentary majority.   Hmm, I am not saying that it is particularly unlikely that there would be election fraud in Turkey, however, I am definitely not ready to take the word of a member of Vnsterpartiets ungdomsfrbund without additional proof. I am way too late to enter the discussion now so this wont matter, however, the observers didn't actually witness any fraud. They were not allowed to be in the polling stations due to threats by armed military personal, so fraud probably took place.  
source; the swedes were interviewed by SVT (swedish television) It will be a cold day in hell if Turkey ever manages to join the EU. You know you're studying too hard when you read election fraud as "electron fraud".  Erdoan the piece of shit desperate to not allow the kurdish party which represents pkk to not reach the required 10% votes to get into parlament. If they manage to make enough election fraud, AKP will win with a huge majority. HDP not reaching 10% sucks for anyone against Erdoan in turkey, also CHP and MHP voters. Check the live results Yeah, Seriously looks like AKP will lose for sure at this point fuck yes. Looks like almost all kurds went from AKP to HDP. This type of shit happens in the USA. People have testified in court and nothing ever happens.  I've seen reddit threads a long time ago chock full of Americans praising the fact that they kick out foreigners who are observing their elections. Funny how hypocritical people are.  OK guys, can all uninformed masses of /r/worldnews shut up about Turkey and how we lack democracy. I think we have shown that our democracy is there, even though it's not in best shape. Turkey did have a great democracy before it was plundered by populist parties, but we we are not Egypt. This country has suffered 2 military coups, we are not planning on having any of those ever again. None of us is. As seen in the current example we will only send people away using democracy itself. Don't you kiddos worry. None of these people know anything about Turkey besides what they've read in the western media. They've likely never talked to Turks either. 
Turkey is a great country with great people, its government has problems just like most.  Erdogan's party lost its number of parliement members to establish a government. There will be possibly a coalition government with other parties that doesnt include Erdogan's party. I read the typo as "electron fraud" at first and my brain molecules became very confused. Nobody questions Sultan Erdogan.  read this as "electron fraud" and thought there was some new quantum weirdness happening in Turkey came here for electrons [deleted] Turkish citizen here. First of all let me start by saying I didn't vote for AKP(current government aka Erdogan's political party) but this news is just unfair and it doesn't do anything but to give bad reputation to Turkey.

The reporters just mention about "a guy telling a lady how to fill her ballot". Unfortunately there are many uneducated people in Turkey and it's very often that people seek help on how to vote. I know this because my wife as a teacher worked as an official on the elections stations. I also attended elections as observer. It's a very common thing that people will seek help. (Of course we just tell them about how to vote not which party to vote for)

They also mention the military kicked them out. I'm not sure on what grounds they were there but you need to be registered to be an observer in the elections. It's not that anyone can go and be an observer. What if 50 people from same party will want to "observe" there will be a chaos.
For the military being too close; there were recently bombings on the area during a political party rally. It was showing on the news that there were extreme cautions to for security. Many officials were sent with helicopters as the area is not safe. Maybe it was wrong for them to be to close but Turkish military is secular I wouldn't believe any soldiers making fraud for AKP as most of you already know this.

My point is I don't see how any of these mean there is fraud in the elections in Turkey. Were they the only observers? I'm sure there were observers from both AKP and HDP(it's biggest opponent in the area) present on the polling station.

Anyways it makes me sad to see that so many people just jump to conclusion with a "news" that doesn't really have any valuable content in it and they decide the elections are just fraud in Turkey.

AKP didn't even win the elections, doesn't this tell the otherwise?
Edit: What I meant by saying AKP didn't win is that they can't form a government by themselves anymore. Their votes went down and that's a clear lose from their side. They were there on behalf of HDP, so they were registered observers. &gt; but this news is just unfair and it doesn't do anything but to give bad reputation to Turkey.

How can it be unfair if it happened? The international observers were forced away by the military and because of that, the observers were unable to do what they were supposed to be.  This doesn't happen in a civilized country. 

&gt; The reporters just mention about "a guy telling a lady how to fill her ballot". Unfortunately there are many uneducated people in Turkey and it's very often that people seek help on how to vote. I know this because my wife as a teacher worked as an official on the elections stations.  

Other news sources stated that the woman was accompanied by a man who told her what to vote for. This is not OK behavior. 

 Why can't they just gerrymander and pass last-minute voter ID laws like we do in civilized democracies.  Ok, this will end well. And they want to be part of the Eu... [deleted] &gt; fuck the nonsecular Turks

As a Turk I thank you for the proper addition of nonsecular. 

 I hope Sweden drops a brick of the most bitter chocolate in the world onto Erdogan's small head.  That would be racist so we can absolutely not do that.  You know what?! Fxxx you, reddit. Seriously. You are all so ready to badmouth a country that has been trying so fxxxing hard to get rid of this pest called Erdogan. He loses majority and this is the headline that makes it to the frontpage?! Why aren't you people talking about all the amazing volunteers that made sure that there wouldn't be voting fraud at the polls? Why aren't you talking about the fact that for the first time in a long time Kurdish people will have representation in parliament? All you Westerners seem to know how to do is sitting on your high horses after destabilizing the middle east and then bitching about how horrible the rest of us are. Show some fxxxing solidarity for once, ey? Actually read about what's happening instead of jumping on the bandwagon of islamophobia. Seriously, reddit. Shame on you. It's amazing. This is one of the most historic moments in modern Turkish history, a defeat for the Islamists, and the people who hate Islamists the most are all like "BUT WHAT ABOUT ARMENIA". 

Jesus Christ, celebrate this. If you observe an electon doesn't it have to choose a state and act like a particle People should have understood by now that letting Georgians rule your country isn't really a good idea Sounds like a republican's wet dream. Maybe the Swedes should improve monitoring of their [own](http://sv.wikipedia.org/wiki/Valfusk#Sverige) elections first

Link is Swedish about election fraud in Sweden.

Edit: Found an English link [too](http://swedenreport.org/2014/09/07/election-fraud-in-sweden/) And Turkey are a part of NATO? I understand why, but christ we need some sort of action against this if they are to continue in NATO.. Don't be fooled into thinking NATO is some kind of safeguard against bastions of authoritarianism. Turkey was the west's last line of defense against the USSR in Europe and Asia Minor (they were the eastern most ally and remain a geopolitically important country) during the Cold War and the political culture reflected that - secular republicanism gave way after WWII to populism and whatever rule benefited the US and its allies. This included periods of military rule. Keep in mind also that, for comparison, Greece was never ejected from NATO during the years of the military junta - hell, they only left voluntarily for a few years because of sour relations with Turkey.

Turkey was, is, and will always be a NATO member because they are an ally of the west in the Middle East. Erdoan and the rest of the AKP will stay right where they are unless they fuck up their relations with the US (unlikely) or they become too much of a liability with increasing public discontent (which at this stage doesn't really exist). NATO's a military alliance aimed at containing Russia. While this is deplorable it doesn't really have anything to do with NATO's purpose. They could fire kittens out of cannons at orphans every day at ten and two and they'd still be useful members of NATO.

I mean, what's the alternative? If we kick them out of NATO for making a mockery of electoral integrity all that we'll really accomplish is handing them to Russia on a silver platter, either through conquest or them joining Russia's diplomatic sphere as a puppet. Oh yeah? What are you gonna do? Invade our country?

Erdogan just lost majority. It's a cause for celebration. You people, man. Seriously. Anything that hates on another country, you immediately get all excited about. This is an insignificant incident. For the first time in a long time people have organized enough to protect their ballots. And you are talking about "doing something" about us? That western arrogance... Who do you think you are?

Show some fucking solidarity for fuck's sake. Yey for today's results, hope it is a first step in reversing the course that Erdogan has staked out for Turkey in the past years. Just called my friend in Kutahya, he's jubilant :) Greets from Greece. Thank you!  http://www.reddit.com/r/worldnews/comments/38wrzf/swedish_observers_witness_electon_fraud_in_turkey/crys7sl I don't think Turkey is the only known country where elections frauds happened.

US with George W and one of Italians elections were left party won in middle 2000s had major problems aswell. Yeah there's a lot of fucking Turkey hate in this thread, jesus christ, these happen everywhere, just because it's more subtle doesn't make it any less real. It's easy to be an observer and comment from outside I guess '30.000 tonnes'  
Damn that's a lot of food.  You would be amazed how much food is wasted everyday. I washed dishes at a campus cafeteria a long time ago. We tossed more food in 5 minutes than I could eat in a week. I worked retail for 12 months. In the morning, before opening, we would empty the fruit and veg shelves. They're tricky, because fruit and vegetables usually don't have "best before" dates on them. The rule was: if you'd buy it, leave it. If you wouldn't, trash it. If some cashier was super picky with their fruit, it would be trashed, no questions asked.

The at the end of the day, we would throw out everything that was no longer "best". Most of it was fine, though. Dumpster divers would've loved it.

Every week, we would fill our 2.500 cubic liter container approximately two times. This is as one of two stores in a 10-15.000 people area. It's also not all food, it includes cardboard boxes, old receipts and all that jam. But it's still amazing to me. &gt; In the morning, before opening, we would empty the fruit and veg shelves. They're tricky, because fruit and vegetables usually don't have "best before" dates on them.

This isn't just because the produce is not edible. There's a business model based on several factors. Let's say a very nice-looking lemon costs fifty cents. Everyone is used to paying that amount, and getting lemons that appear a certain way. That cost covers producing the fruit, transporting it, and discarding a certain number of lemons because they have a "sub-par appearance". I'm ignoring the lemons that have already been sold by the farm to producers of stuff like lemonade, etc. because they never hit the supermarket part of the equation.

But let's say you had two tiers of "lemon appearance"; pretty ones for fifty cents, and not-so-pretty ones for twenty five cents. The latter would most likely perform exactly as well as the former, but we'd all get used to buying twenty five cent lemons, and the supermarket lemon business model would likely have to have a gross restructuring.

I'm not saying either way is better or worse or evil or whatever, just that consumers have been trained to expect a certain appearance in their produce, and there's a reason that produce with "sub-par appearance" isn't left on the shelves or sold at a deep discount. I know, I know. Happy customers and all that jazz. I'm not really complaining, but compared to the size of our store, we had a *lot* of necessary *and* unnecessary waste. We talked about something for a while - that instead of throwing out food, employees could buy it at a discount - but that wouldn't work according to management (I've never really thought about it, I assume they're right and don't care). Otherwise, send it to charities, like Tesco is doing now.

Either way - it's funny you should say that, because at least where I'm from, the more rugged a fruit or vegetable looks, the more expensive it becomes, because it looks organic and shit. Yea I believe in France they have actually passed a law that if supermarket's are caught throwing out edible food, they will be fined. Where is the law that these people can't be sued if someone gets sick...this is why pantry bank donations stopped Right here: http://foodshift.net/good-samaritan-food-act/ Bam. Legislated. Since 1996, in the USA. The problem being that they can still sue, even if it's frivolous and they have no chance of winning it still costs these companies money.  Throwing it out is cheaper than dealing with that. You mean like the [Good Samaritan Food Donation Act](http://www.gpo.gov/fdsys/pkg/PLAW-104publ210/pdf/PLAW-104publ210.pdf)[?](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bill_Emerson_Good_Samaritan_Act_of_1996)&lt;-wiki link
Which basically absolves the donater unless they were specifically trying to poison people maliciously? I don't think most people in the EU would bother with that. That's a fear for America, not the UK. Actually M&amp;S used to donate all their food that was to be wastage to homeless charities until they were sued by a homeless chap who got food poisoning.  What an ingrate.  Not really. If you were homeless with no money and food, and have a chance to sue a big company, most people will just go for it. Gotta look at it from their perspective. He was getting free food and he happened to get poisoned from it? M&amp;S didn't have to give the food away it was charity. I can see why he'd do it but punishing people for being charitable isn't exactly the best way to go about fostering a sense of community spirit.  I'm not saying they should be punished for being charitable. Just stating why he would do it and that most people would do the same in that situation, so it's not really fair to call him an "ingrate".

Edit: To the 50 people replying saying the same thing- I'm not saying what he did was morally right at all. Man, you people are vicious. 

Edit2: Keep the viscosity jokes coming :^) Just because you are giving something away doesn't mean you have no responsibility to make sure it is up to quality standards.  Punishing people for negligence is very important, regardless of whether they needed to help or not.

Frankly I'm sure this was all part of their insurance anyway, and if it wasn't they should really not have been doing it.  Likewise I'd bet to keep their BSI accreditation I'd bet they'd need to follow the same standards, if they are selling or giving it away it shouldn't matter.

Charities give things away, if those harm people do they not get in trouble?  Same principle. Except you had food, because people gave it to you for free until you got greedy and tried to sue them and ruined something great for thousands of other people. Nah that guy still sucks, being homeless doesn't excuse it. Why isn't there a law saying you can only sue if you pay for the food?  That...doesn't make it right.  I don't understand your argument.

Just because you say "most people would go for it" doesn't make it true or moral.  I'd bet most people would not sue. I think we can all agree that grocery stores shouldn't be sued if someone gets sick from unspoiled food. 

But here's a hypothetical: what if that grocery store was intentionally giving away spoiled food to save money on sorting it? What if they were only giving away food for a tax credit, and giving away spoiled food helped them save a few dollars on their taxes compared to throwing it away? 

In that case, suing the grocery chain should have the desired effect of getting them to sort out the spoiled food instead of donating everything. That would be a positive outcome. It's not the homeless man's fault that he got food poisoning from spoiled food, it's the grocery store's fault for giving out spoiled food. And the grocery store should be held accountable.

If the court ruled for the homeless guy over a big corporation, I doubt it's because the homeless guy had better lawyers. It's because he was in the right and the grocery store was doing something wrong that made them liable for handing out spoiled food. Like intentionally choosing to not sort the food and not caring if people got sick.

Don't blame the homeless man for the program ending, blame the grocery store's management for being too cheap to do it the right way and cutting the program out of spite. And that's why stores in the US mandate that food may not be given out, unspoiled or otherwise. Why would I pay extra to ensure all of my food being thrown out was unspoiled? The one getting the advantage of free food should be the one testing the food for freshness, not the other way around. A person who is poor and cannot afford food still has the right to eat food that won't make him sick, believe it or not. Yes, human rights still apply to the humans you see lying on a sidewalk in the middle of the day. You don't get to pick and choose what their rights are based on their income level. True but a lot of people also get sick from eating food they bought. Sometimes, it just so happen that food got spoiled a little faster than expected and I don't think people go around suing just because they got an upset stomach once in a long while. Unless of course, the food poisoning is widespread and it becomes suspicious that there is negligence or deliberate profiteering at the expense of the public health. that's a load of shite.  i'm not ragging on you, i'm just saying that the reason m&amp;s stopped doing it was due to some waste management policy they changed; nothing to do with being sued (which i can find absolutely no information about...not even from an unreliable source). http://www.thirdsector.co.uk/homelessness-charity-pleads-marks-spencer-restart-food-deliveries/management/article/1008207

This article addresses it indirectly. I worked at M&amp;S in 2011, at the end of each day we'd gather all the food going out of date, were allowed to buy any for ourselves that we'd like, the rest was binned. Felt like such a waste.  Correct. Waste food is now 'back hauled' along with empty trays to the supply depot and burnt to generate electricity, or composted.

We used to donate to local charities and one of my jobs was visiting them to check they were complying with the strict rules we set out for them (some did, some didn't). If they didn't comply they eventually lost the contract to receive the food.

Source: M&amp;S employee for 31 years. Do you have a source on that happening and it being the reason behind them stopping the donations? I'm a department manager in a major UK supermarket. When we dispose of out of date food we have to make sure that it's done in a way that it's inedible because we're liable if somebody gets ill from eating it if they scale our razor wire fence, break into our skip and eat it. Tesco will get sued and this will stop. People are shit When I used to volunteer at a food bank, we had to black out every barcode and write "do not accept return" on anything donated by a grocery. The assholes receiving the free food would often attempt to return it for cash before we started doing that and the grocery stores threatened to stop giving us anything if it continued.  &gt; That's a fear for America, not the UK.

Surprisingly, no.  The USA has had a [law since 1996] (https://www.law.cornell.edu/uscode/text/42/1791) to protect Good Samaritans, but the [House of Lords rejected a similar law in the UK](http://www.independent.co.uk/life-style/food-and-drink/news/peers-reject-good-samaritan-food-donation-plan-for-britain-9241173.html) in 2014. Considering that the UK was going to put spikes down in areas that homeless people sleep, I can absolutely believe this. It happened it belgium. (long time ago) a big chain gave away food to charity. items that need to be eaten in the next few days for example.

Problem is the charity doesn't always store the product correctly. And some items go bad before the experience date. It's possible there was already a problem with production.

My wife once opened some product on a big pallet, one item fell of and it was full with maggots. She worker in a store and the problem was during transport. Generalizations are cool Read up on this Federal Law: The Bill Emerson Good Samaritan Food Donation Act of 1996

http://www.foodtodonate.com/Fdcmain/LegalLiabilities.aspx

Any fear of being sued from food donation is based on an embarrassing ignorance of American law. People are people, there's always someone who'll sue to try and cash in. They'll probably make more from the publicity of this ("don't mind going to tesco over another supermarket if they donate their waste food to a good cause") than they'll ever have to pay out if they're sued. But yeah as the other guy responding to you said, there is no suing culture in the UK.  That's exactly what this Tesco announcment is reacting to. No, Tesco are reacting to the bad publicity they got after a couple were prosecuted for theft after taking food from one of Tesco's bins Intermarch got the same bad publicity after the same thing last month. It's a small small world... Dont start that disney shit in here! It's a world of laughter, a world of tears...
 Its a world of hopes, a world of fears... Wouldn't it all be easily avoidable be putting a big visible sign on their dump stating no liability over stolen trash? Depends on the law.

If it snows and you put a sign on your crosswalk and somebody breaks his leg on it you're still responsible.

Putting a sign up doesn't remove your responsibility magically. Right, but walking on your crosswalk is not illegal. The store could easily claim that taking food from their trashbins is theft and thus they are not responsible for how people handle whatever material/object they take.

That being established, they could simply choose not to go after these "thieves". In the UK the Unfair Contract Terms Act says you cannot limit your liability contractually in relation to death or personal injury caused by your negligence.

That's not to say a sign wouldn't be useful - if it established that you were not negligent - but that depends on all the circumstances (at an extreme if your staff told homeless people it was OK to take from the trash, that would probably override what the sign said and you would remain negligent and so liable). As well as the fraud, huge drop in share prices and mass closure of stores. They have been prosecuting people for this for a long time. The latest being in may 2015. Now they have a complete reversal on this... I actually don't care for what reason this happened, I'm just glad it has finally happened. Now, the tactic is, we all stop shopping at Tesco for a week and they will feed every homeless person in britain for a week :) That's it, punish them for trying to do something good. &gt; we all stop shopping at Tesco for a week

They're not exactly having a healthy financial time. I doubt they'd thank you for that. Would be even better if this went into Law EU wide. My university has been doing the same. There was an article about it where they wouldn't even let any staff (mostly students on minimum wage) take any of it home, never mind give it to charity. Unfortunately with university food it's already been cooked, it's not like an old box of crackers or few-days-old meat that's still perfectly fine to be cooked and eaten. My university had a deal with a local pig farmer who would take all the food scraps for pig slop. So it did get recycled, sorta. Just not to people again. Because it has like napkins mixed in and stuff.

Edit: did a little research and they may have only done that for a few years like 5 years ago. But there are ways to recycle food, and they still do that. It's made into fertilizer and other stinky things. Maybe you can propose some kind of recycling plan to your school? Also, we went trayless a few years ago and it's saved something ridiculous like 15-20% less food waste. It gets recycled into bacon. That's pretty much the greatest type of recycling there is. There was a suggestion to try and produce food waste which was an official target put in place, but they ignored it. With regards to recycling this is the UK where food waste will generally get recycled into compost. Because it leads to people deliberately spoiling or hiding food. Giving it to charity is a great plan, letting workers take home out of date or damaged products wouldn't work. Far too much room for abuse. From someone who used to work in the Frozen retailer Iceland, I can confirm that is true. I used to get a 5 pack of coke half price coz 1 'fell' down the back of a freezer (Y) Can confirm. Worked in Sainsburys on night shift. If you let the right people know you had a party planned it was amazing how much discounted beer turned up with 1 beer missing by the end of a shift of the shop being closed When I worked at Starbucks my manager would order about twice as much food as the store could sell so she could take it all home when it expired. By the rules, If I had been caught taking any food home, I would have been fired on the spot.  Worked in food microbiology for 4 years. Receive a 5 Kg piece of ham, take 100 g for tests, throw away the rest. And that's just one company, one sample. We received hundreds A DAY and there are thousands of food micro labs around the world. I really wish the whole world would agree on a decimal point or a decimal comma.

'Cause thirty tonnes of food is a lot less than thirty thousand tonnes. The actual article is British and hence it was written as 30,000 tonnes. We've always used commas.

Don't know why the person citing the article changed it. Some countries use just a space, but this can make it even more confusing and defeats the purpose of having a separator in the first place.      
In Switzerland the apostrophe is often used to avoid this confusion.  So "ten thousand" is written as "10'000", or "10'000,00", or "10'000.00".    Metric prefixes are even better. You never have to write the comma or decimal place when you're using metric prefixes. 

Gigagrams. It's 30 gigagrams. 30 Gg. Good Guy Metric system. My friend used to work in the restaurant, she said that they throw away huge amount of food every day, and there were cameras in the kitchen to make sure they throw away everything.  My friends have worked at Chik Fil A,  and the reason they have that rule is kind of sad. 

At first their Chik Fil A allowed anyone in the evening shift to take leftover food home.  But then people started abusing it: intentionally messing up a large number of orders, leaving messages for the cooks to overcook a certain amount,  etc. 

Management realized where they were hemorrhaging money and put a stop to it. I used to work at KFC, and at close time the managers would say I'm going out for a 5 minute smoke. That was code-word for take a bucket and fill it with as much chicken as you can, pretty much the only good thing about working there. Or they were actually just going out for a smoke and you're a dirty thief... "Brentaxe, why is this bucket full of chicken?""But... You just said you were going for a 5 minute smoke?! I thought that was the codeword for 'grab as much chicken as possible'?!!" "What? No! That chicken was for me, not you!!" I went to the KFC drive through 5 minutes before close and the guy said just pull up to the window, and said they're closing and have a lot of extra food so they gave us two buckets, two large sides, and some other stuff and rang it up for like $5. Yeah it's incredible how much food they throw out, literally 2 or 3 huge garbage bags full of chicken. Better to give out the food cheap rather then let it go to waste. I had a similar thing at a Burger King (I worked security at one from midnight to 4am, the post-pub post-nightclub crowd). I often got to walk home with a paper bag filled halfway up with fries, and a burger with four beefs and a hundred bacons on it made by one of the cooks. Instead of throwing out perfectly good food like that, they should throw out people abusing management's goodwill. Prime example why we can't have nice things, people are so abusive. Some people are so economically repressed they have to look for every advantage to keep their families ahead of poverty and homelessness.
 Yeah, some people are like that. But some people are just greedy. And those greedy people really ruin it for the people who are actually in need. The one I worked at had a policy to allow a free meal when you work a shift. Yeah, you can't take it home to feed your family but they a least owned up to the truth that you're going to eat something when no one is looking anyway. Might as well be able to track it.  When I worked at Mac, we were always divinding the rests (~midnight) between us: cookies, salads etc. There were cameras everywhere indeed, but you know, managers were humans. Tesco supplies food to approximately 20M people, as it accounts for ~30% of the UK grocery market. 

So that's around 1.5kg of waste per person per year. To me that doesn't sound like all that much, given the scale of their operation. That's a pretty impressive metric, actually. I work at McDonald's and the amount of binned food is ridiculous. Especially breakfast menu. I've always wanted to say something to the manager but not even sure where to start.  I worked there long ago. I was always so upset we once threw away 56 sausage mcmuffins, alone. We compacted our trash too so none of the homeless could go through it. I once was forced to write up a co worker for eating food when he was taking it the morning trash. I didn't want to but the manager above me caught him. The poor guy was also made to pay for the food. It's just appalling.  how painful it it when you are living pay check to pay check  and have to throw out perfectly good condition foods.  As we speak I'm at Tesco throwing away a tin of soup because it has  a dent in the left side making it "Not suitable for sales"-Tesco employee Every little helps. Its even worse considering people who 'dumpster dive' ate charged with theft when they are only eating out if bins because they can't afford to it. I have worked in 3 different grocery stores in the States,  so much is thrown out. Different stores have different protocols, but what is common is to "scan/charge out" the product so it can be track for loss prevention and then thrown in the dumpster. Every day tubs full of food stuff was thrown out. Not just perishables, but even processed and packaged food stuff that had extended shelf life. Was there a reason this wasn't done before (other than it being cheaper to throw it away perhaps)? Dunno about the UK. But in America, health codes and insurance. Someone might get sick and sue. "I took a chance on this slightly out of date food because the alternative was starving to death, but it made me sick so I'll see you in court!"

...Fuck this whole lawsuit culture. It's worse than just that.

IIRC, when conversing about this with an older person, apparently at least some stores used to put the stuff they threw out that wasn't obviously dangerous (e.g. expired meat) in readily available places near the dumpster for pickup, packaged and everything.  However, if someone decides to try to take the entire night's food with them and throws out their back doing it, they might sue because it happened on the store's property.

It's terrible that food is wasted like this, but as there is no Good Samaritan law on the books regarding this, I can't really blame them for doing their best to make sure that the food is disposed of, and therefore they are not nearly obliterated for charity.  Worse yet, unless that law was worded verrrrry carefully, there are probably a few companies that would find a way to use this unethically to save a few pennies, and when called to account for gross negligence may hide behind it.
 Devil's advocate. Everyone starts putting unused food out to be taken by the homeless; it becomes a cultural norm.

My store discovers some of our veggies have a really bad bacteria on them so we toss it in the trash. Naturally, folks come and eat it because we didn't mark that this wasn't just 'food for the homeless' but actual trash. Whose fault when they get sick?

I mean, they are just following a cultural norm which I violated. But strictly speaking, I just put stuff in the trash so... If it becomes big enough for a cultural norm then I'm sure it wouldn't be hard to put into place new rules/laws like you have throw out safe and unsafe foods in differently marked bags imo Who decides what's safe and what is unsafe? Does every store that throws away food need someone trained to make that call? Or just subjective? What if they are wrong? Where does the liability, if any, fall? Well those same problems exist now, I'm just offering a solution for the scenario mentioned in the original comment I replied to, which is the store is aware of an unsafe food and want to avoid having homelesss people eat them If it's a cultural norm to give the food away then what exactly is the problem? Anything in the garbage is truly garbage, and people will know that. Anything specifically put out to be taken is fair game. Though I think maybe I missed something implied in your post. [In America there has been a law since 1996.](http://www.feedingamerica.org/ways-to-give/give-food/become-a-product-partner/protecting-our-food-partners.html) 

The reason companies don't do it is pure greed. Why spend the effort to give your food away when it's going to reduce your sales, however slight? Why is everyone arguing over what would happen? Doesn't this explain it all? Seems like in the U.S., you would be protected by law to give away unused food. I used to work at a pizza place and whenever we screwed up a pizza we would throw it on the back dumpster for the homeless around the area (if we threw it in the dumpster they would hop in and rip up our garbage bags until they found pizza). One guy actually called in and complained about a pizza he got off the dumpster not being up to par, claiming he deserved a free pizza for his troubles.
I'd like to think I'd have integrity if I was ever homeless, but I think it would wear off pretty quick. &gt; One guy actually called in and complained about a pizza he got off the dumpster not being up to par

Perfect time to be extremely offensive: "suck my left ball and die in a fucking gutter you smelly son of a bitch." *click* Or we could address the homeless issue instead of what people do with their trash.  Not in the UK.  I work in the food industry, supplying product to Tesco.  We often send food waste to [Fareshare](http://www.fareshare.org.uk/) - they're amazing, take all the responsibility for the safety of the food and have the distribution network.  I believe they'll be taking the responsibility for most of this activity. And the stuff not fit for human consumption usually ends up at a firm like one I used to drive for which turned it into animal feed. That's exactly right.  We do the same.  If it's in date, in a packet and can be consumed it's off to Fareshare.  Anything out of date goes to a local pig farmer (may I stress this is VERY little).  We have zero waste to landfill (all our packaging waste goes to recycling too).  The food industry gets bad press in the UK, but there's plenty of sustainable, ethical producers out there - it's just the cheap crap that's questionable.   I worked in grocery for 8 years in the Central US. We gave away pretty much all of our damaged or unsellable (but edible) food from all the departments, except the meat counter which makes sense to me. The charities would come three times a week to pick up food and they left with a full 15 passenger van regularly. That company had probably 15 stores in the area and all of them did this, and I worked there from 2000 to 2008. Not all grocers throw everything away.  I know that  one US chain, Kroger, is very generous in donating food that is unsold.  This is not true.  I have worked in grocery all my life in the US and we donate almost everything at both companies I have worked for. (Over 15 years)  

There are actually laws protecting companies from being sued when donating expired food items so that they can donate them and not be concerned. Might be why they are trying it out in the UK. The UK doesn't have the same suing culture as the US. If I ate some and got sick I would put it down to "meh it was free" and "oh well shit happens" (literally as the 3 day old burrito is melting my asshole) I don't know, I can't cite any stats or anything but I am worried that Britain is starting to become more of a litigation culture. No win no fee  companies advertising on the TV and stuff seem to suggest that there is a market for that kind of thing  There are waay more PPI adverts Ugh, PPI. I wished the banks never missold PPI not because misselling PPI is wrong but because of the 1000 companies that were established to help people claim back money. HORRID ads, unsolicited phone calls, not to mention the fact that these companies are essentially parasites as you can claim back PPI yourself and keep the money for yourself. I can't wait until PPI claims dry up and these companies die a fiery death. I probably am owed some PPI, but I think I'd rather let the banks get away with it on the grounds that the middle man companies between me and a payout are even more scummy than the banks. That's so dumb. You can appeal directly to the bank. i claimed mine directly through my (at the time) credit card provider; no third party was involved at all...and it was a piece of piss to do it.  i wasn't asked for any documents, as all the information they needed was already on their system. Without it though, we'd be living in a world without [this] (https://youtu.be/0BaDsTa2fLY) masterpiece! Hey friend. You are owed 2457.20 in PPI. Please PM me. You're owed even more PPI by Prince Ubuntu in Nigeria. PM me your bank details for immediate cash deposits.  In England the reason we have so many No Win No Fee adverts isn't really to push a compensation culture, it's more of the fact it allows people to proceed with a claim that they may have not been able to afford to have followed through with without the assistance of a Conditional Fee Agreement (the No Win No Fee) and to compete against other law firms. 

The firms will only take on the case if it's got a substantial merit to it, otherwise they're out of pocket. Any judge who saw a potential frivolous claim in front of them would throw it out before it got anywhere near the doors of a court and might even be having words with the the Solicitor processing the claims if they keep doing so.

I can see why you feel we're heading that way, but luckily our system still has some rigorous procedures in place to try and stop it from ever getting out of hand. Of course some do slip through the cracks, but not too often! 

(source: LPC student, we're taught all this) 
 If someone kept presenting stupid lawsuits in court, would they be banned from doing lawsuit cases altogether, or would they be forced to get permission first? The court will force them to get permission (known as leave) but unless there's a statutory provision expressly allowing the court to do so, they can keep bringing claims (as annoying as that sounds). 

There's a good example in the Children Act 1989 where parents (and other relevant parties) can apply for Section 8 orders regarding children, but the court has the reserved power to prevent s.8 claims without leave when one party gets a bit too heavy on the court and applies for an order for each individual decision regarding said child(ren). 

EDIT: It is worth noting for the first example that a judge can still keep chucking out stupid claims if they keep getting brought, but it's a waste of both the claimant's time and the court's. Damages are awarded differently in the UK. If I remember correctly you're likely to pay an awful lot more in compensation in the US than you would in the UK. IIRC there is a law that will force them to do this in the works.

They are just starting early. This is purely anecdotal, but I'm from the US and I've never heard of someone suing over food poisoning. It happens all the time and people just go "oh well shit happens" and "I probably just won't go back to that restaurant" 

The "suing culture" isn't as strong as it seems. We just want it to look really easy to sue someone so when the time comes something bad actually does happen, it's relatively simple and not outrageous to start up a lawsuit. People don't sue over everything here. Just because you hear one thing on the news that seems stupid....well that's literally one person in ~320 million.

Ninja edit: I am not counting the people who go on Judge Judy and the like as "suers" I think people say this because it's what they think supermarkets might say so they're less inclined to make a fuss about it. According to "Just Eat It", a documentary on food waste, no one has ever been sued for that and in fact there's a law that prevents them from being sued. No, you are wrong.

If you, for example, buy a piece of meat and eat it after the expiration date, the person loses the right to sue, after all, the expiration date on the package was marked. 'Unsold food' doesn't mean that the food is expired, but it is **projected** that it will not be sold, so instead, they are given away before the food is beyond the expiration date.

Any food, especially fresh food, will be checked if it hasn't reached the expiration date, and after that, the food bank will double check it again. And really, it doesn't matter whether you are in the US, France or UK, if you get sick from food that was before the expiration date on the package, you can sue the supplier for it. (although, in the US, you can sue for 'damages' that exceeds anything reasonable)

Source: I dropped out of college last year, and i just started college again 2 weeks ago. In the time i had between i dropped out and 2 weeks ago i used the free time to volunteer at a local food bank here. (Netherlands) We had to thourougly check expiration dates, especially for food that will quickly spoil (meat, vegetables, fruit, etc.) because most of our supplies also come from local supermarkets. In the event that one of our clients would've had spoilt food and took measures against us, chances are the supermarket in question would've gotten involved, and probably would've resulted in them halting the supply. So it was VERY important we checked the expiration dates, and never take risks. I'm not as educated on the subject as I'd like to be, however I've heard something about an agreement between supermarkets and the suppliers -- they're including a 10%-ish discount on their goods, because they know that this food would rot or would be thrown away anyway.

If supplier finds out that 100% of his good were sold and none were thrown away, he's in his right to take that discount back for the next batch he supplies to the supermarket.

I might be wrong, though, gotta google it. Probably so.   While on the subject of the usa does anyone know what Costco does with all of their picked over milk?  For those that don't get rectangle milk they put up large pallets of them and seemingly every time there's one pallet with an older expiration date than the others so everyone picks the milk with the longer shelf life.   Seems like they're wasting a ton of milk.  I think it's a combination of this and the fact there is no infrastructure to move unsold food to the people who need it before it spoils.  From what I read, it used to happen but the supermarkets got nervous about giving food that had past its sell by date to charities due to the risk of litigation if someone got ill from eating it. [deleted] Well, this is small scale, but one summer I worked with a food pantry that did this with around 8-10 local supermarkets(bigger chain ones). We'd essentially go around to each supermarket, pick up their unsellable goods, transport it to the food pantry I worked for, unload it, then they'd sort it and distribute it.  I used to work for a small tescos.

Through out the day they do price reductions on food that had reached their sell by date but we were only allowed to 'waste' the food at 10 pm as part of our shut down functions (store closed at 11 pm).

So part of it was purely a timing thing, we have so many other jobs to do before we leave for the day, giving unsold food to a charity could mean loosing a member of staff for a long period of time. Even if the charity comes and picks up the food that's still a drain on our time.

They could get rid of the unsold food earlier in the shift but that means a potential loss of sales.

Then there's the whole we might get sued thing and then there's the baked goods (Bakery section containing individual pieces e.g  cookies, doughnuts and other breads the section looks like this http://i1125.photobucket.com/albums/l583/totomimotommy/temporary-1268.jpg) where an entire tray costs something silly like 0.5 pence. They never do reductions on them because the cost of those products are so low and the time it takes away from staff working means its just better to throw it away. I used to work in a small Tesco in stock control/reductions too. I had to chuck the waste out at the end of the day and my manager would always tell me to make sure I locked the bin after to prevent "the scavengers" getting at it... This isn't relevant to the thread, but I work part time at a Tesco Express and I have been asked if I want to become the stock controller for our store. Is it worth the extra hassle? Depends...what do you do now and what do you like (if anything) about your current job? Stock Control can be quite intense, you have to have great attention to detail, and you'll only recognize mistakes that you've made days after, like that Tesco Finest pack of steaks that now needs to be wasted because you missed it on your first reduction run and it's now out of date.

The job is also quite time-sensitive, you have to do first reductions at x time, then gap scan between y and z time, second reductions at b time etc. Some days you'll feel like there isn't enough time to do everything and you can sometimes feel like you're swept off your feet trying to get everything done. It's worse in a small store as you'll likely be the only controller in and therefore won't have anyone to help you out. It's even worse when the store is busy and you're constantly being called as relief to checkouts. Mainly, the stress of the job all depends on how much back stock there is, and how tidy/organised the warehouse is.

Despite all that though, I liked my time in stock control, it's quite fascinating to see how everything works behind the scenes, and the responsibility you'll have (You've got more potential than anyone else in the store to lose the store money) means that you'll have managers breathing down your neck, which, if you're good at it, can be a great route to advancement. Just be aware that it can be *very* stressful and sometimes quite monotonous.

 Well, that's settled it, there's no way I'm becoming the stock controller! I hate my job there enough as it is, without all those extra tasks to do. At the moment I do a bit of everything (checkouts and working stock) and take over certain team leader responsibilities (till checks, reductions etc) occasionally due to the fact that our store is chronically understaffed and we're constantly behind with routines. 

The only reason I was considering it was the possibility of extra hours (currently only working 18-24 hours a week) and that I'd potentially have to spend less time dealing with customers, but I don't think I could deal with all that extra stuff to do. It's already bad enough as it is, I'd probably end up having to stay on the checkouts for most of my shift anyway due to staffing issues and then on top of that I'd have to spend hours trying to count stock in our disorganised warehouse. To make matters worse, our store manager quit suddenly a couple of weeks ago and has been replaced with a robot-like jobsworth who only cares about making himself look good to the area manager, and I definitely wouldn't want him breathing down my neck. Thanks for the insight!  Baked goods like bread ? Because i always get reduced bread from tesco for like 10p I think it is being done now because of pressure from campaigners and awareness groups. That certainly seemed like a major force behind the recent French law and that probably had an impact on tesco. I don't think the suing thing is the right answer, the charity would certainly be the one liable if they distributed spoiled food, not Tesco who did not.

I believe the reason for these policies has been theft prevention, out of fear their employees would 'waste' perfectly good products. I think it'll even be too much for charities to handle.  Now *they* will have to deal with the waste. It's not the hard it goes down the compactor at the end of the night and gets picked up in the morning. There was very little waste to be fair on the grand scale of things but the bakery was the worst offender by far, probably more waste from the bakery than the entire store all put together. I work in the waste department of an ASDA and agree about the bakery stuff- there's normally 3x as much bakery shit as there is from the rest of the food section combined.

The waste meat couldn't really be used for charity either as most of it would probably make you ill.  It probably wouldn't but there are more risks with chilled items like meat and dairy. Hard cheese is okay though. One night I saw my local bakery giving a group of old ladies several large bags of bread loafs after closing time. I think they are from the local charity. It makes sense because bakeries generally bake fresh every morning and can't really sell old bread anyway. Charities and grocery stores already do this in Italy.  I volunteer for an organization that collects food and feeds 450 families a year.

I'll deal with the "waste" all day long if it helps feed people. This is a feel good story, but sorry, you're all being hoodwinked by a press release to offset Tescos bad publicity. 

[Here's the exact same story but from 2013](http://www.theguardian.com/environment/2013/oct/16/tesco-surplus-food-banks-fareshare-charities) yet the new article says Tesco is the first supermarket to solve this problem.

I volunteered for FareShare. All supermarkets have been donating food to them for years. Mostly long life products and dented tins. I've rarely seen any fresh produce from any of them for obvious reasons. I honestly don't believe they can do it and stay within health and safety guidelines. 

 I volunteer for [FareShare](http://www.fareshare.org.uk/) and we get food (fresh, frozen, and long life) from EVERY big supermarket, not just Tesco, and this has been going for *years*. The kind of products you get depends on how willing the supermarket workers are to spend time sorting the unsold food. I was wondering where this story had come from. This seems to be the only 'news' story about it... and it's not a source I've heard of before Food rescue from supermarkets has been a thing in the United States for more than a decade. The first significant supermarket chain to do this was Kroger, which ran a four-store test with Detroit's [Forgotten Harvest](http://www.forgottenharvest.org) in 2004. Last I saw, Kroger's up to something like 50 million pounds of rescued food a year and plenty of other grocery store chains (including Walmart) are doing it as well.

There's charities in the US (like Forgotten Harvest, with whom I've volunteered) that just do this -- pick up food that is still good but can't or won't be sold, then deliver it to emergency food providers. It goes beyond groceries -- here in Detroit, for instance, their trucks pull up at the local stadiums after pro sports games and collect all of the unsold pizzas, etc. to go to soup kitchens and the like. I am a volunteer and we have something called "food cloud". Every tuesday we get a text with the amount of food we can pick up at our local tesco and its always just fresh food. Usually the best before date is the day after or similar, so we have to use all the food in the next two days, but still... Free food! A good move, but it does come after a ton of bad publicity from its financial issues and its aggressive policy of building stores (even small ones to get around our sunday trading laws) and trying to screw over their suppliers and competitors You know, it's only now you mention it that I realise how many small stores there are. After a year in Nottingham I know of only 1 sainsburys, asda, lidl and aldi yet there's 5 tesco expresses dotted around which, in all honesty, is normally just as good.

And imo tesco have some of the best PR around, they're top in my books.  They stopped selling custard creams in my local one because they weren't selling enough of them, I can't shop at a store that doesn't stock custard creams. What sort of country do we live in where this is acceptable? People just don't realise how much us in the north get shafted by the conservatives. Thatcher took the mines and now Cameron has come for the biscuits. Something something EU migrants ate my custard cream. I live just outside London and you can't get moving for Tesco. They're everywhere, in all there forms. Tesco local, express, megastore, etc. Tesco even bought up a huge chunk of land near where I live but never built on it, so it's just this vacant plot in the centre of town. Apart from that, they're okay I guess. A year in Nottingham and you've only noticed one small Siansburys? Where have you been looking?  The Tesco wars are still to come - https://youtu.be/0PSyiRXIEyc Definitely a game changer , austerity has hit people hard, and many are only a few wage packets away from not having a roof over their head. When stores and corporations give back to society in this way it can only increase customers , a win win situation. This comment has been overwritten by a script as I have abandoned my Reddit account and moved to [voat.co](https://voat.co). 

   If you would like to do the same, install [TamperMonkey](https://chrome.google.com/webstore/detail/tampermonkey/dhdgffkkebhmkfjojejmpbldmpobfkfo) for Chrome, or [GreaseMonkey](https://addons.mozilla.org/en-us/firefox/addon/greasemonkey/) for Firefox, and install [this script](https://greasyfork.org/en/scripts/10380-reddit-overwrite).  If you are using Internet Explorer, you should probably stay here on Reddit where it is safe.  

 Then simply click on your username at the top right of Reddit, click on comments, and hit the new OVERWRITE button at the top of the page.  You may need to scroll down to multiple comment pages if you have commented a lot. There are plenty of homeless and poor people in the US who rely on soup kitchens or other food donations. Soup kitchens are generally operated with the help of donations and volunteers, and often they can't help everyone.  Maybe finding healthy food is a problem. We have a hell of a lot of people literally having to use food banks just to feed themselves and their families. Obesity is growing here too though (no pun intended) but i think thats not a problem with the poor as such, but the people just above that bracket. I'm suprised no one is commenting on the dodgy website...

According to their ['About Us'](http://www.sky105.com/p/about-us.html) Page, the company registration number in the UK is: 6784543 (with offices in Maidstone, UK and Nairobi, Kenya). 

A companies house check results in this: http://i.imgur.com/vSz3obl.png

That address is nowhere near Maidstone, United Kingdom. **EDIT:** If I had taken the time to read it carefully, I would have noticed that it is a dissolved company! Further, it wasn't even in the business of providing news...

Based on the accounting section on the Companies House, I can reasonably conclude that Sky105.com is NOT affiliated with Sky News in any way. Which is what I think that website is trying to pass off as... (logo looks similar)

Further, more reputable sources have reported on this five days ago:

1.  http://www.bbc.co.uk/news/business-33003029
2. http://uk.reuters.com/article/2015/06/04/uk-tesco-food-waste-idUKKBN0OK11520150604
3. http://www.independent.co.uk/news/business/news/tesco-rolls-out-app-to-give-unsold-food-to-the-hungry-10296871.html

Even if this website is reporting accurately, which I am not debating, how is that SKY105 isn't being looked at with more scrutiny on this subreddit.... Many places in the UK, superstores and restaurants used to give food to charities. My mum used to work for a charity for and M&amp;S used to give them a lot of food.  Then legislation changed and companies could be held liable for anyone getting sick off this food so it was mostly stopped. A friend used to work for Boston Tea Party and they would give out sandwiches, that had to be sold that day, to local homeless, when they closed. Similarly management stopped that telling them they could be sued if anyone got sick. Wrong, wrong, wrong and holly misleading post!

Tesco with almost 400 UK stores are offering unsold food IN ONLY 10 STORES and they are the ONLY UK supermarket that doesn't do that YET.

https://uk.finance.yahoo.com/news/tesco-offer-unsold-food-british-101110373.html?bcmt=comments-postbox

Edit: 2,614 (not 400) Tesco stores in the UK as of 28 jan 2015 Now everybody stop shopping at tesco..Solve world hunger? Good, hopefully other supermarket chains will follow suit. I work for a small waitrose and we go through 10,000 worth of wastage a week, the thought of all that food just being thrown away is just sad That's like a dinner for four from Waitrose, right? Yes. Their set meals are 10,000 each but don't it taste fresh though?! With my discount I get that for a sweet 9,999 I wish you could apply store discounts to uni degree fees. They already do. I volunteered for a place that frequently got donated food from the big chain supermarkets. Sainsburys especially. They'd phone each branch up to see if they had anything, then go along in a van to pick it up from their delivery door. It was good stuff too. They'd even take out of date products if it was something safe like tins of beans or oatmeal. 

I'll have to ask someone there, but I'm pretty sure they got food from Tesco too. This seems like a PR thing to offset their bad publicity.  There are food safety laws that stop them all from donating produce, bread and other short life products, so Tesco is not doing anything differently that it probably wasn't doing already.  That would just be individual stores though where it would be down to the store managers decisions. What they're doing now is making it a store policy so it'll be rolled out to all stores. Nice PR. Tesco has been getting their shit pushed in by german based chains like Aldi and Lidl for a several years now. The fourth Reich is a subtle Reich How did they manage that? When Lidl came to Sweden 10 years ago they were all about Germany, Germany, Germany. All German stuff. Guess what, we want Swedish dairy, meat and other stuff, so they had to fix that. Well, Lidl and Aldi have been doing that too in the UK, focusing on British food. But Lidl and Aldi have really benefited a lot from the economic downturn in recent years. People were forced to shop downmarket and found that they could buy things at Lidl/Aldi at a cheaper price with not that much difference in quality (and even sometimes buy things that are *better* in quality). These days, Lidl/Aldi are *crazy* popular. The Lidl where I used to live renovated *twice* in 5 years, each time physically expanding the size of the store. The Lidl where I live now is ALWAYS packed. You are guaranteed to wait in a queue for at least 15-20 minutes before you see a server, that's how bad it is. Because Germany and the UK have a history of being bros. And German food is delicious.  I used to love going in to a tescos in the city just before closing on a Sunday night. I shit you not, i was getting 3.50 packs of cooked meat for 0.06. I came out once with 4 bags stuffed full of what i estimated to be 35 worth of food and paid about 2 quid for it.

I always wondered why charities didn't offer to buy the food at massively discounted prices. I mean, if tescos will sell me a pack of cooked chicken for 6p without me even asking think what they would have done for a charity that says it will buy all of what is left after the shop shuts and put tescos brand on all of their literature "in partnership with tescos".. I work in hospitality catering, and the amount of food and drinks I see go to waste at the end of my shift is staggering! Meat and vegetables that have taken such a long time to grow cultivate/slaughter, package, sell, cook and then straight to the bin. It's a disgusting thing to see and it breaks my hear. Imagine they kill you just to throw you away in bin, as if killing the animals isn't cruel enough.  Hopefully ASDA follow suit shortly, and maybe even their bigger brother, Wal*Mart Last time when there was a thread about the French doing this, a few in the US have commented about cafes they worked in and how they gave out food to the needy and ended up somehow being sued because one fellow said he got sick from the food he ate that was donated.

That is why we can't have nice things... I work in a grocery store in the U.S.  and we've always donated what we can to charities. However, there are certain liabilities that severely limit what can be given away. Stuff like bread and baked goods that are not fresh enough to sell are fine, but anything that has left the store and been returned, or anything that has been damaged to the point where it could be harmful to someone needs to be tossed out.  Thats how it should be That's nice. I better stop buying food from tesco now. This is the same tesco's right? http://www.mirror.co.uk/news/uk-news/couple-charged-stealing-out-of-date-tesco-5687720 Quick, nobody buy anything... for charity! In my country there was a baker, at the end of the day he gave all his bread that was left to poor homeless people, after it got loud about it in the news, government made him pay taxes for all of it , I'm from Poland land of f****d up Walmart donated 571 million pounds of food to food banks in 2013. 

Source:  http://foundation.walmart.com/our-focus/hunger Wal Mart has been doing this for years and has received no press for it.
 good times ! i hope the rest follow  I work in a UK supermarket and we throw out a ridiculous amount of food, the worst I saw it was at christmas time when we threw out 10+ Full trolleys of perfectly good food. That was just at the end of the day, throughout the day plenty is thrown out for having ripped packaging or not looking perfect. We used to donate it to a food bank but don't anymore due to the possibility of being sued. All goes straight in the bin. From McDonald's to movie sets, I've been forced to throw out literally tons and tons of food. There's always this myth that gets whispered around of someone who sued because they got free food and wound up sick. Does anyone know if this supposed person of legend is actually real? Fucking FINALLY. In Finland we have food line for the poor to get food once a week. It's a motherload of almost expired foods everytime and in Christmas they will give out ham and other Christmas foods. Why the hell throw out food if someone is hungry?  Great news. I feel like if there was unsold food in American supermarkets, they will lower the price so much that there will be no unsold food...  Waiting on the first lawsuit from someone who gets sick. It will happen and sadly they will win.  More places need to do this in America, but implement a law that states they can't get sued for donating food and you're eating donated food at your own risk. I can attest to this,  I work in a organic food store and work in the kitchen,  at the end of every night the amount of food that gets wasted is unreal.  However we have a machine that composts all of our hot food and food that wouldn't make it two or more days before its expired,  we also give a lot to charity, mainly dried goods though. So does that mean if we want to give to charity, then don't shop at Tesco? I dunno if america does this too but here I quite often see 1-2 days out of date foods marked and reduced massively in some of the smaller shops, and tesco seems to do alright clearing out food by reducing it toward the end of the day if it's near it's date. I mean, I'm really happy to hear this, but it really irks/confuses me that this isn't just a common, unremarkable practice. It seems like common sense. Why the fuck would we throw out perfectly good food? Publix is also getting on board. Not only are they donating food, but also using fruit to plant seeds. Way to go Ireland, UK, and Florida 
http://www.myfoxorlando.com/story/21088586/publix-program-avoids-waste-perishable-recovery-program-second-harvest-food-bank I used to work at Costco in the meat dept, everyday we'd grind beef and pork and make fresh ground beef and pork respectively, and at the end of day id through out literally kilo's off the stuff into a trash compactor, why?  Lawyers that's why.

in Canada btw* In the states, Bill Clinton passed the Good Samaritan Act preventing businesses from getting sued for potential food born illnesses from donating soon-expired food. I know Trader Joe's (possibly Whole Foods) are required to donate anything pulled from the shelves.  Yet that is probably only a drop in the bucket considering all the Costcos and Walmarts running backwards policies as a method of time saving.   I was in my local Tesco last month..I grabbed a bag to put some danishes in from the fresh bread display and this angry looking spotty teen just stormed over and threw them all in a huge blue bag.."Hey man I was about to buy some of those".." Erm .all for the bin mate, can't sell it when we've been told to bin it"...These are baked daily and was now 4pm...madness. Glad they've seen the error of their ways. I hope others follow suit. To be fair this has been done before.

For 5 years up to Jan I'd worked in 2 stores for a supermarket chain here in the uk.

The 1st had a system set up where its unsold tins etc that went to the local Monks and a local women's shelter. The 2nd i worked at for the same company did not. This trend needs to spread to North America, where we probably waste the same if not more than Europe.  A business, and a corporation at that, rarely does anything for "goodwill". 

Somehow, they're getting paid for this, guaranteed. Plus, it's great PR Wrong, wrong, wrong and holly misleading post!

Tesco with almost 2614 UK stores (as of 28 jan 2015) are offering unsold food **IN ONLY 10 STORES** and they are the ONLY UK supermarket that doesn't do that YET.

https://uk.finance.yahoo.com/news/tesco-offer-unsold-food-british-101110373.html?bcmt=comments-postbox

**This is the real Tesco** less than a month ago:

http://www.mirror.co.uk/news/uk-news/couple-charged-stealing-out-of-date-tesco-5687720

Tesco did drag them through the court and ......
The judge added: How are they expected to live? It seems to me the appropriate punishment for taking food which is of no value is an absolute discharge. More reason to shop at tesco. This whole process would be easier if Change.org didn't spam me after I signed the petition Yeah Christ, stop emailing me stupid shit like signing Captain Crunch as a member of The Expendables. 

Edit: I Was wrong and I have seen the errors of my ways.

[Official Petition](https://www.change.org/p/quaker-oats-company-lionsgate-studios-add-cap-n-crunch-as-a-member-of-the-expendables) What *savage* wouldn't want Captain Crunch in The Expendables?   [10 Minute Mail is your best friend.](http://10minutemail.com/10MinuteMail/index.html) Just don't use it to add multiple signatures. That's not cool. And why these sorts of things aren't taken all that seriously. Far too easy to game the system.  You would prefer another target, a military target? Then name the system! It's an older quote sir. But it still checks out. I was about to upvote them. Just vote casual. I'm endangering the thread I shouldn't have upvoted... Don't get jittery. There are a lot of comments. Don't vote cocky kid. Daytona.  They're in Daytona! There. You see, General Dunford, she can be reasonable. Continue with the operation; you may fire when ready. NOW THIS IS POD RACING!!! I laughed way to hard at this comment I'm a pilot, you know. You fucker thats the wrong damn movie entirely. [No it isn't!](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=g_H3_g9PhnM) it's scary how well it worked.... 2nd time I heard "I'm a pilot, ya know," that was my undoing. &gt; Daytona

You will never find a more wretched hive of scum and villainy. Daytona could use a wipe and fresh start.   Every person in Daytona could use a wipe. "Dantooine is too remote to make an effective demonstration. But don't worrywe will deal with your Rebel friends soon enough."

Grand Moff Tarkin was an asshole's asshole.  He wanted to blow alderaan up no matter what.   Dantooine was kinda remote like Tarkin said.  I wonder if he had a different excuse lined up in case she named a planet that wasn't remote at all. "Well, we're already here." "You've forced my hand, Tarkin.  The rebel base is located inside this very Death Star." "Well, we're already here." [ah-HA!](https://www.youtube.com/watch?t=22&amp;v=DXze55Z2GuY) I think... XKCD? Abstruse Goose? One of those comics did a bit about the rebel base using the surface of the Deathstar as their base of operations. 