I really wanna watch it without the subtitles now.  When I was originally watching the film in the cinema, I remember laughing out loud when my friend said to me "I wonder what this film would be like without subtitles" as these apes were grunting and snorting at eachother.

It seemed so absolutely absurd to me at the time that someone would actually go through that experience in real life.

I felt so bad for my poor dad! He still managed to enjoy it though!


**Edit: just realised I meant Dawn of The Planet of the Apes all along, not Rise!** I rented [Babel](http://m.imdb.com/title/tt0449467/) way back in the day on DVD and watched the entire movie thinking that they didn't put subtitles in it to make it more artsy and show how you can never fully understand other cultures or something. It turns out I just didn't know how to turn subtitles on on my DVD player.  I watched the first half hour of Fox catcher with the speaker subs wrong. Just figured the guy was angry that he was going deaf. Then I realized I was an idiot.  I watched the pilot episode of Archer and wondered why there was a dinosaur in a spy show and everyone were talking to themselves.  What? There is a second copy of the pilot where archer is replaced by a raptor,  and everyone else continues as normal. What the fuck? How can I see it? http://www.dailymotion.com/video/x2cyrqo_archer-archersaurus-unaired-pilot-episode-season-1-episode-0_fun
 archer wakes up as [h jon benjamin](http://www.dailymotion.com/video/x1adiiw_archer-waking-up-as-h-jon-benjamin_shortfilms). was this ever aired? dont remember it.
 YouTube brother, and watch the whole thing, it's great drunk tv. &gt; you can never fully understand other cultures or something

That *kind of* is the point of Babel although I don't think any even slightly mainstream Hollywood movie would go so far as to not have subtitles at all. I watched the first 20 minutes of  I Am Number Four at ~80% speed. Until I realized, I was actually impressed that a Hollywood production gave so many speech-impaired actors a shot. This one wins.  Man that was such a shitty movie I wonder why a director hasn't made a movie like this. Show the film in without being able to comprehend one side then replsy the part where you can understand the other sides dialogue Like Star Wars with the wookies? I believe there are some films which don't translate everyone already. La Vita  Bella doesn't have subtitles for the Germans, even if you watch it with English subtitles for the Italians. I rented [Phone Booth](http://www.imdb.com/title/tt0183649/) way back in the day on DVD and watched half the movie thinking that they didn't want us to hear the sniper's side of the conversation to make it more artsy and show only the perspective of the main character or something. It turns out one of the composite audio cables was loose. I did the exact same thing! It was due back at the shop and I didn't get chance to rewatch it knowing what the other guy said. The only thing I remember about that film is that the police chief (maybe?) said "god damn" like 4,000 times. Haha, oh man. I've done something similar myself, but instead of having trouble with subtitles I accidentally turned on extra narration for the hearing impaired.

Sat through the whole movie thinking that whilst this new artsy commentary could get monotonous in the long run, it wasn't actually too bad. Did you mean "for the visually impaired", or is it really a soundtrack with a guy yelling "SHE SAID SHE LOVES HIM BUT CANNOT BE WITH HIM!" ? Oh fuck me, haha. Of course I do. That would be amazing though. Thanks for the laugh! I watched a bunch of episodes of the Simpsons like that and I kept thinking "ok I think I remember this episode but I don't remember there being a narrator", it was pretty amusing regardless though! I went to see Inglorious Bastards the week it came out, while traveling by myself abroad, in Athens, Greece. I was super pumped to see the film until it began and I found out it had subtitles. In Greek. Napped a bit during the infamous bar scene. But gotta admit I still LOVED it I got it on DVD to watch for the first time. No subtitles appeared and I sat through it thinking maybe most people have a basic grasp of french and german.. and I don't. It was a great film but I felt a bit inadequate at the end. Similar experience, watched it in the UK, but the screen hadn't been adjusted properly so the subtitles were way off the bottom. After a few lines a guy infront of my started translating for his wife! He ended up doing the first ten minutes loud enough for everyone to hear after encouragement, while the staff fixed it. we all got refunds too!  I went to see Die Hard 4 in Brussels when I was there with my girlfriend.  So many people speak English there lots of cinemas show films without subtitles, which was great until the bad guys started speaking to each other in French, which was also obviously not subtitled, because everyone else in the cinema except me spoke it natively :P Oh my god. I had no idea it actually had subtitles. This changes fucking everything. I had the same issue with the first few episodes of GoT. I missed all the Dothraki dialogue, of which there was a fair amount. At one point I was even dubbing it myself from a subtitle file online.  I have yet to download subtitles for any episodes, something tells me i am missing a lot on Daenarys side of the narrow sea.  Holy shit.  You mean there are subtitles to all that Valerian she is speaking? Damn it That's odd, I though GoT had the subtitles hardcoded in.  Obviously not!  Most movies and TV shows nowadays don't have hardcoded subtitles, because it's easier to distribute them to multiple regions that way. Otherwise, if you're watching it in English with say Dutch subtitles, you'd have two sets of subtitles onscreen (English and Dutch) when people speak Dothraki. I may have obtained it through a less than legitimate source and I think they were bluray rips...  

I found the solution eventually by enabling the 'unknown' subtitles in plex.  Wait, Babel has subtitles? Yeah. I watched godfather 2 without subtitles. Thought the same thing.  Did the same thing with Breaking Bad... Same. That song at the start of one of the episodes confused the hell out of me until I re watched it with friends &gt;.&lt; Blue Ruin on Netflix had a sound issue when they first put up up. I got through about 40 minutes thinking the movie had no dialogue track and was just being artsy.  I'm so happy I'm not the only person in the world with this experience! Given the title, the whole time I thought it was supposed to be an "artistic" device that was over my head. I never rewatched it, did you? I watched Dawn of the Planet of the Apes a few weeks ago and it didn't have subtitles.... I kinda just rolled with it and didn't think it was that bad. In retrospect I guess it was dumb of me to assume there shouldn't be subtitles. You are not alone. 
 I am here with you Though we're far apaaaart Propofol stopped my heaaart I watched it awhile back and the version I saw on the internet didn't have subtitles either. I really thought that you were supposed to just interpret what they meant now I have to watch it again to see what I missed. I feel like such an idiot now, at least I know I'm not alone. The same thing happened to me with District 9, in retrospect I should have probably known something wasn't quite right. I watched Game of Thrones season 1 without subtitles for the dothraki parts. There are some pretty long sections and I remember thinking " hmmm drogo seems pretty mad, I wonder what they're talking about" I always ask my girlfriend what they say. She knows these damn books by heart it seems  For a second, I thought you were going to say she is a dothraki. Dude. No way. We might've downloaded the exact same download! I did the same thing. I watched it for about 20 minutes before I tried googling an answer so I watched it on my computer and there was subtitles. I've done a similar thing, my friend and I watched half of 'Days of Heaven', with a setting on my audio mixer that had essentially turned off the dialogue but kept the music. I thought something must be up, so I googled it, and all I could find was a reviewer saying "the director has chosen a bold audio style", or something like that - so I thought it was normal. The worst thing is my friend and I were praising the director Terrence Malik for making such a brave decision... cringe worthy TIL my pirated copy was supposed to have subtitles... Yeah I watched rise and probably 40 minutes of dawn before I realized how fucking retarded I was. I kept thinking the filmmakers were trying to be edgy and different or some shit by making a movie where you only needed to get the gist of the dialogue. I'm sitting there like an asshole like "ok well there's obviously something wrong with this apes child.... And that seems to be a healer of sorts?" Tldr I'm apparently a reasonably functional retard.  I watched it without subtitles. They seemed to use American Sign Language, which I know, so I was able to keep up somewhat, but I still had to look up the synopsis on Wikipedia to keep up entirely. XD I called my 17 year old daughter, who knows ASL, to interpret not knowing I could download subtitles. She pretty much was spot on in the interpretation.

Edit. Changed a word First time watching it was without subtitles, I was fucking lost lmao. I still really enjoyed the movie though. I actually did that... I was like oh no subtitles but surely they won't be talking for that long. 45 minutes in I gave up and had to get it fixed. Couldn't take the apes seriously: grunt grunt chest beat.  I have only seen it that way.
 I did that the first time too but stopped after a few mins. I guess OPs dad wasn't that smart after all. Actually I was hoping he had watched porn the way that story was being set up Just watch Apocalypto. Same thing.  Holy shit I never realised there were supposed to be subtitles for the apes! I missed out,  it seems.  I watched the second one without subtitles. I didn't know there were until someone mentioned it to me later. Fuck.  Wait either I'm in the same boat as OPs dad or I have bad memory, but the only part the monkeys talk with subs is between Caesar and Maurice in prison.  The other parts were just grunts with no subs. i thought it was going to end up being like porn or something and your dad was going to bust you. That's why I liked this TIFU. It didn't end up with his entire family seeing his porno stache in his USB drive.  You can keep facial hair on a USB drive?! [Yes.](http://www.amazon.com/EMTEC-Mustache-Flash-Drive-Black/dp/B00E3KWLUA) I don't know why I said stache instead of stash It's because you were subconsciously thinking of all the epic moustaches in 70s pornos.   Stash+cache Does porn have subtitles?   *thrust thrust thrust* *gags in japanese* [dying cat] *cries in spanish* Sensei, kimochi ii!

  
  
^*translator ^notes*: ^Sensei ^means ^teacher **thrusting intensifies** *"Did somebody order a pizza?"* *"I can help you pass the class..."* Subtitles are great when you have thin walls. Headphones don't work because it makes it more difficult to monitor your fap noise levels. Or if someone is sneaking up on you... Even taking headphones and noise levels into account, I'm always paranoid that my fapping sends shockwaves through the floor which my house mates can hear. Eastern European porn does...I've heard. If its hentai it does. I thought it was going to be a Planet of the Apes parody porn. the first porno i ever watched in my life was a parody called Playmate of the Apes. this doesn't really have to do with anything, i just felt compelled to get this off my chest. I'm sorry. Your comment was totally relevant, don't worry haha. If I was given porn instead of this, I'd probably have similar comments.  I am, admittedly, a complete jackass. me too man. I gotta get my mind out of the gutter. M glad...I wasn't the only one thinking about this.  Do you mean Dawn of the Planet of the Apes? Because I watched Rise without subtitles and there wasn't a whole lot to not understand, the apes didn't interact much until the last half hour Yes I do - my mistake. I'm just full of fuck-ups today! Haha it's cool I was just really confused thinking I might've been missing out on a whole world of ape dialogue I didn't experience  Originally glanced at your comment and thought you said "fuck-apes" today. Chuckled to myself, reread it, and got instantly disappointed in myself. Damn, how did he get through the movie? He missed like 60% of the dialogue. It's not your fault, going Rise -&gt; Dawn seems like a backwards way of naming movies in a series. So, you made him watch a sequel before seeing the first movie? ... I watched Dawn that way. Didn't realize there was another way until talking to people about the movie. I liked having to try and figure out the subtleties of what their interactions for clues beyond the obvious emotions.  Me too! I watched it without subtitles at first because piracy, and I watched a legal copy with some friends months later. I liked it better without the subtitles, but Rise would be impossible. The titles really should be reversed. Maybe that is part of the confusion. You can't Dawn after you Rise.  Definitely. As I was putting the title in I was considering a quick imdb check to confirm as a measure of diligence but thought nah I'm right for sure. Glad that worked out for me! This reminds me of the time I watched The Last Samurai without subtitles, and thought the film was really groundbreaking by not having them, when really I just didn't turn them on. I watched David Lynch's Lost Highway once. It started out normally (or as normally as you'd expect a David Lynch film to go), but around twenty minutes the sound went all wonky and static-y, rendering most of the dialogue incomprehensible, except for a few moments of clarity. I thought that this was just another way of Lynch fucking with the viewer and that he used this technique to make the movie even more nightmarish and to emphasize the few bits of dialogue that *were* audible.

After about 40 minutes of this, I realized that I was just listening to it through faulty headphones. I was pissed at myself for wasting my time like that. What's worse, I *was* enjoying the movie even with the fucked up sound. Damn, you accidentally made a David Lynch movie more Lynchian than it already was. Bravo. My rip of The XX was slowed down by like 30%, so I was pretty sure they were a couple heavyset black dudes with rich baritones. Please put this on YouTube You know, that's actually a pretty spot-on allegory for my life up to now. I was starting to learn Japanese when I saw Lost in Translation which didn't have subtitles in a lot of scenes, if not all.  (I honestly don't recall.)  At one point Bill Murray is being directed in a commercial for a Japanese whiskey and the director's explaining what he wants in great detail with this shotgun exposition and the translator says something like "smile and hand to face."  I understood some of it, but I was just starting to learn the language at the time. http://www.weareawake.org/suntorydirector.htm I wish I could turn off Tom Cruise's Japanese. He barely speaks any Japanese in the film. I literally watched it yesterday, which is a weird coincidence. Two things:

1. A lot of his Japanese lines are short. He's either trading Japanese and English words with the kids, answering with "hai" or saying a single sentence to prove, "Hey I put some effort into learning your language so I could tell you this important emotional thing like 'Sorry I killed your fucking husband.'"

2. He's fucking learning Japanese organically, without a tutor/* or textbook, and he's an Army captain from reconstruction America. He has no precedent for anything he finds in Japan. You have AT LEAST seen some samurai flicks, kanji, pictures of Japan, or fuck's sake, even met some Japanese people. Tom Cruise's character knows almost nothing about Japan. He's never even heard Japanese.

His Japanese may be bad, but it SHOULD be bad for the character. There is a scene where he struggles to say "sorry," which is not even difficult. That should show you that it's intentionally bad.

I'm being overly defensive, maybe, but it's a fantastic film and I fucking love it. It's one of the better examples of Tom Cruise. Similarly, I played Spec Ops: The Line and the audio was broken during cutscenes. I thought they were being artsy with their choice of silent opening sequence...then silent second sequence...and about the fourth time I was like "Okay, I think something's wrong." Is it sad that I watched that movie 3 months ago without subtitles and only just realised my mistake? You're not alone... "Dad?" -OP Same. I thought you were just meant to make assumptions on what they were saying from the current the situation and their gestures. That's how I watched Dawn too. A little confusing, but I got most of it. There was enough body language and shifting tones in the grunts that you could guess what was going on, but damn did I feel a bit stupid when my friend mentioned there were subtitles for a lot of the movie lol. I still enjoyed it though. Yeah I watched it without subtitles and until I literally just read this post I just thought that was how it was. I guess TIFU too, but honestly I didn't find it to be that difficult to follow. I did too... Same here. The film wasn't too hard to understand, though. Not like the apes were saying really important things :) Koba saw this, and he's coming for you I watched it on Netflix like this.....uh,, so what were they talking about?? I got about half an hour in before noticing something wasn't quite right. Years ago my parents watched a DVD of "The Notebook", paused midway to take the family dog outside, and when they returned they somehow resumed playback selecting the deleted/extended scenes.  They watched the disjointed scenes thinking it was the rest of the movie.

I've not seen the movie, but I think one of the characters has dementia, or alzheimer's disease, and they thought it was a choice the director made.  The only reason they knew they'd made a mistake is because the movie ended abruptly with no credits. I recently started watching the Netflix show Marco Polo and watched the fourth episode first  and thought the second and third episodes were all a flashback building up to this weird snakebite. I didn't even watch the first episode until after I realized I'd already seen the fourth one and something weird was going on.  &gt;The man literally sat there watching apes grunt at eachother for the best part of 2 hours without a fucking clue what they were saying.

It would've been disturbing if he'd actually *understood* them . . . Body language can go along way. He may not have fully understood them, but he could have gotten the gist. Did the same thing with district 9, safe to say I thought it was the worst movie made for about 2 years... I did the same and only found out years later it had subtitles, but I actually thought they directed the dialogue really well with the other characters, body language, etc. Another district 9 victim here. 
Needless to say i didn't understand why anyone would think it's a good movie...

Good to know I'm not alone though.  Yup, add me to that pile. I didn't realise until years later when I just happened to be visiting a buddy who was watching it at the time with one of the scenes with the Prawns. I just started losing my shit. Hah. Now that's how you discourage piracy. Media Player Classic - Home Cinema has a subtitle database with which you can download subs for a film in-program. VLC also implemented a feature where you can download subtitles for the "current" video in the recent update as well. Oh cool! Kodi also has it. I tried using automatic subs from a few places on Plex and it just really didn't like that movie. I had to watch it on VLC player on my pc. I honestly thought OP had not checked the USB and the dad had been watching porn for 2 hours. My BF and I watched the entirety of Captain Phillips before we realized there should have been subtitles. D'OH. Still enjoyed it though :P The same thing happened to me when I downloaded and watched The Human Centipede.  It was almost creepier not knowing what they were saying. Well TIL that This movie had subtitles for the apes. Watched it on Rainierland without subs, thought you were supposed to figure out what the apes were saying by their body language. Wasn't too hard but damn. That's the same thing that happened to me when I downloaded it, but the ape body language was enough to get what was going on. I totally thought you were going  to realize it was porn and he was playin with you I...I watched this movie without subtitles....and thought it was just supposed to be that way and that I was too dumb to 'get' it. 

Still, awesome movie.  What a dad thing to do, and to keep watching and give you an honest opinion too. So cute lol I feel so sorry for your Dad. He was being really nice about it too as I enthusiastically recommended the film to him earlier. He most likely held back his obvious "WTF did I just watch" feelings to spare me any possible disappointment. I felt so guilty!  did you tell him you fucked up? does he know now there were meant to be subs? will he watch it again with subs? i haven't laughed so much on reddit in a long time. i just picture your dad there trying hard to like the movie because of your review and just watching monkeys grunt lol. I went to watch this in Korea and we didn't even think that the subtitles would be in Korean for the apes. We ended up, badly but hilariously, dubbing it to ourselves, which resulted in fits of laughter, much to the surprise of the Korean audience. I watched captain Phillips without subtitles. It was awesome. Not knowing at the pirates were saying made you really relate to the captain and increased the fear. Never have seen it with the subs. **THERE ARE SUBTITLES?!** Oh my lawd
 I got 20 minutes in before I realized my mistake  Omg I just found out there are subtitles for the apes. Same thing happened to me... Proof that your dad loves you. Wait......this film is meant to have subtitles.....you mean for the last year I thought we had to just assume what the apes were saying......life is one big lie for a retard like me. The first time I watched it was in Amsterdam with Dutch subtitles. I don't speak Dutch so I feel I can relate to your Dad in this situation. I am laughing so hard at this  I feel your pain. I once watched District 9 without subtitles for the aliens...  I only recently realised years later that Apocalypto was meant to have subtitles when I watched it. Surprisingly watchable without any understandable dialogue though. I did the exact same thing. Only thing was that my dad and I had already seen the movie, so we generally knew what was going on. It was cool seeing what it would really be like watching those Apes, a totally different experience that I actually recommend for fans of the movie! Ah, fuck. I literally laughed out loud. I remember this happened to me watching Babel for the first time.

I literally thought there wasn't supposed to be subtitles. It was brilliant! That's truly hilarious! Haha! Poor guy, I guess he'll be watching it again with subs on this time! Haha Love this. God damn that is fucking marvelous. I am literally laughing out loud.  Well there's my first laugh of the day. Thanks OP! I'm pretty sure I'm not the only one that skipped to the end to see if it was actually a porno you accidentally left on the USB stick.
 I know a guy who downloaded Gravity with a dead audio track - he watched the whole thing thinking it was done artsy with there being no sound in space and all  This reminds me of the time I was watching an episode of Breaking Bad. It was one of the first episodes, a pretty gruesome one. Jesse and Walt are cleaning up a disgusting mess. The background music for the scene was "Enjoy Yourself" by Michael Jackson. The upbeat tune over such a violent scene was some jarring juxtaposition, representative of the heavy justification and rationalisation in Walt's mind. "He's delusional" I thought.

Nah. Turned out when I pressed "play" on my remote, it started up iTunes on my laptop and played them through the fuckin TV speakers.  Ahhh I loved this post. Thank you for a TIFU that wasn't something fake and stupid. &gt;"The plot is good, it's a good film! I don't know how that wasn't apparent to you?!"
&gt;He replied: "It was just quite unclear at times with the dialogue, the script was definitely lacking, which was a shame because it could have been really good!"

Thought for sure OP had accidentally downloaded an X rated knock off and gave to his dad, lol. This is the best fuck up ever. Made my morning  Was so sure when reading that OP had showed him a porno. Well written, threw me off the scent 10/10 readers expected porn to feature at some point in this fuck up See, Piracy is not a victimless crime.  i fucking watched it without subtitles the first time, guess i deserved that for being a pirate. I cannot believe this story didn't end with you realizing you accidentally gave him a porn movie Did anybody else assume this was going to be a plain accidental porn TIFU after reading "USB" ? I got a genuine "lol"  from this Imagine flyod mayweather watching this film.. Better than accidently downloading a porno version. I saw this without subtitles. Never realized that you were supposed to understand the apes.. I thought it was interesting to try and understand them without really understanding the spoken parts. Huh - maybe need to watch this again. I watched it without subtitles the first time around and understood it pretty much fine. It's not hard to guess what they're saying through context. did this with the star treks, accidently started understanding klingon... I did this same thing to myself with the movie Snowpiercer. A friend recommended it so I downloaded and watched it. When he asked how it was I explained I thought the movie itself was great with the effects and story, but it was weird you didn't know anything one of the main characters was saying the whole time. 

I'm an idiot.  I also did that. At the beginning, I turned up the volume a lot to try and hear the dialogue from that translation machine they used towards the beginning of the film. Then they stopped using it altogether and I thought I was supposed to figure it out from context or something. Glad to see I wasn't the only one.
 I had a similar experience with District 9.

No subtitles at all on the version I located. And damn if that movie wasn't amazing. Picking up what the Prawns were saying by inference of the conversation surrounding them... It was a bold decision by the director and I think that the fact that no one treated this completely alien language as anything more than just an everyday thing...

It really added a lot to the emotional impact of the movie.

And then about six months later, I saw it at a friend's house on DVD and the subtitles were a part of it. It completely changed the entire movie and not for the better. I watched the entire Godfather trilogy without subtitles. Still not sure what all the fuss is about.  Reminds me of the time when I downloaded Avatar with russian subtitles. Didn't realize that the blue peoples dialogue was of much importance until it was too late to quit watching it. I've done the same thing before.  I watched that elijah wood movie that takes place in the Ukraine where he needs to interact through an interpreter for the majority of it.  I didn't know it was supposed to have subtitles.  It was an interesting movie.  I was able to tell what a lot of dialogue was before it was revealed to him, like the lady who was afraid to get in the vehicle because she'd never been in a car before. That I how I watched it. I also watched the Lord of the Rings films without having a bloody clue what the elves were saying. I saw this for the first time overseas, in a foreign language with the original English subtitles.   I could only understand the apes, it was definitely interesting. Was honestly thinking there was pron instead of ape movie I watched district 9 without any subtitles for the alien dialogue, not realizing there were meant to be some. It makes prefect sense still and I almost thought it was less strong when I watched the complete version. We watched Star Trek (2009) at my sister's. It started out very weird, none of us could figure out what what was going on because it all seemed so disconnected. She put it in a different DVD player and we realized it was playing the scenes randomly like it was on shuffle. I've never seen any player do that before or since. Lmao I downloaded the movie and made this mistake,  but had the grand idea of checking for the subtitles before continuing. I can imagine my computer Illiterate dad though just going through it, chalking it up to generational disconnect.   I watched it last night on netflix, was very disappointed, couldnt get into it no matter how hard i tried. I did the same thing to myself. It was interesting  I also did this, I thought it was just the film makers being really clever because you could understand what was going on through body language alone. praise be andy circus Wow. WOW. I didn't know this movie had subtitles and I watched the whole thing. I feel like an idiot, god damn. I had done this with a group of friends. Instead of fixing the mistake, we did voice overs. It was wonderful and ridiculous. I also " borrowed" the movie from the internet. This is the first time I even considered that there might be a subtitle for all the grunting language. I just assumed it was how it was supposed to be some sort of statement from the director about the importance of body language. I thought the movie was kinda crappy tbh but now I'm doubting everything! Will have to rewatch the whole thing now as I'm wondering how much I missed. TY Reddit This sort of reminds me of when I took my dad to the 3D version of Titanic when it was released some time back.  We're 90% of the way through the movie when he leans over to me and whispers, "When is this thing going to be in 3D?"  I was dumbstruck.  For whatever reason, that man could not see that movie in 3D.
 This happened to me with the first season of Game of thrones. The download I had did not have subtitles for the Dothraki and I knew nothing of the show at the time so I watched all of season 1 thinking it was a thing. I thought it was petty cool but annoying at times. It wasn't until watching season 2 which did have the subtitles that I realized I was just a moron. I did the same exact  thing with District 9. Felt like such an idiot after watching it a second time with a friend.  Did the same fucking thing, I went 30 minutes into it before I just got pissed at these stupid apes grunting. Rented it from redbox later and felt like a moron.  I watched it without the sub titles, probably why i thought it sucked. Had to laugh... just yesterday hubby turned on "Dawn of the Planet of the Apes" as I was busily Redditing.  I heard nothing but a lot of grunting and thought, "Well, this doesn't sound very good."  Looked up and saw the subtitles... ohhhhh... :\ One of the best TIFU! Too funny.  Omg I'm crying here! This is the best TIFU I've heard in a long time. Haha Aww.. That's so sad. Poor guy!  If your dad is smart he should have figured out that the subtitles were missing in my opinion. Its pretty obvious when there are whole scenes with sign language and clear plot development . ITT: We all didn't realize it had subtitles. 10/10 would read again. No overly disgusting shit, no arrests, just really unlucky situations. With a perfect TL;DR! Way to go, OP! /r/bestofTLDR/ /r/ofcoursethatsathing  Not unlucky! He made poor choices. Pour choices*** Couldn't agree more, the most thoroughly enjoyable TIFU I've ever read. Twists &amp; turns galore. It was like a Peter Sellers movie.  Something out of a sitcom You left out the most important detail! Did they like it? Hehe, no. They thought it was overly greasy - especially for finger food - and kept wiping their fingers on napkins in between bites. https://31.media.tumblr.com/e9a1a8a51e1e13716f7fd472925c2267/tumblr_n5iu38dblq1t30xsso1_r1_500.gif Problem solved!!!!! What movie is that from? The Last Dragon

Leroy Green loves his popcorn and kung fu movies.  Bruce Leeroy Who is the MASTER?!?!?!?!? Some people say Sho'Nuff, but you and I know it's really Leroy cause he got that glow. SHO'NUFF! YOU GONNA TEACH ME SOME MOOOOOVES?  That's...not even a bad solution. And that's why I take tons of napkins from the dispenser here. I tried it once in 1998.  Eating it was an unpleasant experience. How so? Maybe had too much butter, which is possible.  It's possible that most people in other parts of the world just aren't used to having so much butter. It might taste fine for someone who has a diet that consists of a lot of butter, but for someone who might only have butter on their toast in the morning it'd be a bit too much.  As an Irishman, butter is an essential part of my diet. Butter flavoured popcorn? Fine. Butter smothered popcorn? Don't get me started.  Popcorn smothered butter?  Now we're talkin'. But butter is the most important meal of the day. [deleted] More likely an acquired taste -  I grew up in New Zealand where we are very into butter (my family even used to put butter on something I believe the US calls "malt cookies") but for some reason we never buttered popcorn, so even as an adult I personally find that gross and yucky. I had buttered popcorn once and this is why I hated it. I had to sit through a 2 hr movie with buttered hands and no napkins... and then you get an itchy nose. Then what? Never again.  Sounds like you put too much butter on. It shouldn't be greasy.  no, he should've brought napkins. If you use liquid butter and it's equally dispersed, it'll be greasy no matter what. [You might have problem.](https://33.media.tumblr.com/d6ac0eeb72fab03ead76c02b3271fa68/tumblr_mvbzkdpMkj1sykc1to1_400.gif) Ahahaha, perfect! It's a good show. What show is it ? Malcom in the Middle. That show was my childhood :) If you mean that you watched it as a child, nice. If you mean that the show had a lot in common with your upbringing, I'm sorry. Malcolm in the Middle. That is Bryan Cranston, aka Walter White, who plays the father in the show. Even back then, he was working in the lab. Butter

Not Even Once As stated by /u/DoubleTrump, that's Malcom in the Middle. Me and my brother watched every episode and honestly it is such a good show. I'd highly suggest watching a few episodes on Netflix and if you like it start from the beginning. It's not dependent on story line, but it does follow one and is pretty good. Wouldn't say there are any bad seasons or anything. So we see what path that led Walter White to meth.  Wow there were quite a few darker themes in MitM that I never noticed as a kid. Seriously, that's quite...detailed for a kids show.  /r/retiredgif Is that Bryan Cranston? No, it looks like the dad from Malcom in the Middle. I thought he looked like that one meth cook That's Frankie Muniz. Who later played Frodo Baggins

 Who sailed east and became a young spy named Cody Banks. there literally isn't a better gif for this post.  I'm a bot, *bleep*, *bloop*. Someone has linked to this thread from another place on reddit:

- [/r/retiredgif] [/u/SamNBennett retires a gif of a butter drug](https://np.reddit.com/r/retiredgif/comments/38fi9m/usamnbennett_retires_a_gif_of_a_butter_drug/)

[](#footer)*^(If you follow any of the above links, please respect the rules of reddit and don't vote in the other threads.) ^\([Info](/r/TotesMessenger/wiki/) ^/ ^[Contact](/message/compose/?to=\/r\/TotesMessenger))*

[](#bot) Walter was playing the game long before we knew it. Foreshadowing xD I think your problem was that you forgot to stick your dick in the popcorn. Instructions unclear, got dick stuck in microwave.
 Lighter stuck in dick If you could figure out how to light it in there, you could have a dragon penis! Just saw [this](http://i.imgur.com/YixpWpb.jpg), thought it might be relevant. (NSFW) I expected [this](http://i.imgur.com/HYn3EcP.jpg) one actually, but yours is better. That said, while searching, I happened across [this](http://stewartrobson.com/wp-content/uploads/2013/03/Dragon_march2013_4_LO.jpg) one which I think is the best of the bunch. That's actually pretty awesome. Owww!  It's cool but OWWWWW [deleted] INSTRUCTIONS CRYSTAL CLEAR, PUT PEE ON POPCORN PEE CRYSTAL CLEAR, DRINK LESS WATER Just gonna get a little bit of cancer Stan, tell mom it's O.K. but first he needed to cut a hole in the bottom of the bag. If Polish people think you're eating unhealthily you need to seriously think about your diet. [deleted] "Butter on popcorn?!?!! That's soooooo unhealthy..... Here, have some potatoe stuffed ravioli, we call them perogies!!!" You bet your ass they put bacon and sour cream on it too. That sounds fucking delicious!!! It is. I make them myself. The frozen ones you buy in the store are terrible. Tastes like mashed potatoes from a tv dinner wrapped in cardboard. I make them from scratch filled fresh mashed potatoes, bacon, chives, sour cream and cheese. Oh come on, if you haven't tried "pierogi", you're seriously missing out on life. According to the Poles, you can't pour your fats over your food, but its okay to cook everything submerged in fat. You can put sour cream or a fat-based sauce all over your food, but you can't pour fats over *finger* food, that's just messy and disgusting. Zapiekankas can get out of hand really quickly What is this, salad? I'm not a horse! Polish street food looks like the best end of the night booze mop ever. One day. this is comedy gold  More of an amber yellow. that was pretty good  thanks Wait... You're not /u/doctorish  He's a phony! A big fat phoney! Yes I am http://i.imgur.com/hUNAo.jpg?fb Drink some water. obligatory "GOLD, JERRY" That's the kind of dedication that defines 'Merica. Only thing missing is a forced sharing of butter on everyone else's popcorn.  TRY IT YOU'LL LIKE IT  THERE'S A PARTY IN MY TUMMY! SO YUMMY SO YUMMY! Carrots, do you want to go to the party in my tummy??? Thanks guys. I finally got my kids off that show and now I'll have this in my head for days.  I TRIED IT AND NOW I LIKE IT! Butter on popcorn? I did not know Americans did this....but now I think about it, it all makes sense. Wow, as a Canadian who has always had butter on his popcorn, I am only now awakened to the fact that nobody else does it but us chubby North Americans. I'm italian and i am confused too. Sometimes the fat-eating monster that live inside me decide that is an absolutely necessity to make popcorn using a frying pan that i alredy used to fry something, so the olive oil is more tasty and then, ADD A SHITLOAD OF BUTTER. My friends never want to eat with me, because they say my diet is unhealty... I'll eat with you pal. An unhealthy diet is a delicious diet Well, literally only eating chalk is also pretty unhealthy, so I'm not sure I agree with you 100% Our continent best continent. You have been banned from /r/Pyongang  Oh come on, Kim Jong Un's gotta be putting butter on his popcorn. Pretty sure he doesn't need an excuse like popcorn to eat butter. You have been banned from /r/Pyongang  You have been banned from /r/yangyong You have been banned from /r/pingpong Australian here, we also have buttered popcorn. TIL, Australians are Americans. /r/ameristralia

 Considering that corn (maize) originally comes from North America then I say whatever we choose to do with it is the standard by which others are deviating from.  You know, you actually have a point there. Am dutch. Am confused. People dont put butter on their popcorn? I'm brazillian and now I'm confused too, I thought it was common all over the world it's only common when you aren't trying to talk shit about americans i suppose  Not trying to talk shit about americans, never had butter on my popcorn.

German here. Do you guys just like, chop up bratwurst and chuck it in a bucket of popcorn?  I'd totally eat that.

Grilled bratwurst though. dutch too, and I've never seen anyone put butter on their popcorn, never even heard about it being a possibility. As an American, this blows my mind. And considering that weed is legal over there - I figured you guys would have figured out how to put butter on anything/everything. Button.  .... We don't put butter on popcorn in the Netherlands.  but you devils put mayonnaise on french fries! Mayonaise on fries is the only way! What else are you going to eat on it? KETCHUP? THE RUINER OF FLAVORS AND DESTROYER OF CULTURE? I mix the ketchup and the mayo.

BWAH!


bwa-hah-ahahahahahaahaaa!!! I used to do this in High School after seeing someone else do it. OMFG was it ever delicious. Doesn't taste quite the same at home for some reason. Ranch dressing. Trust me.

Or if you want to go the Canadian route, put gravy and cheese curds on top I live in Gelderland , they seem to here. Butter flavoring or actually butter like [this](https://shahrian.files.wordpress.com/2011/03/popcorn_topping.jpg)? I don't think the rest of the country does. I live in Gelderland too, I've never seen anyone do it Am dutch. No Urg, fine, apparently reddit is very skeptical of buttery goodness. I'll head to the lidl tomorow and take a picture.



*grumble* Import from Germany does not count I'm Dutch too. Even more confused, I have never heard of this butter on popcorn thing before. It's a classic american thing to do , and apparently the popcorn I buy is weird. I'm Brazilian and butter on popcorn is absolutely the rule here. Grew up going to the movies and ordering them together. I had butter popcorn plenty of times in Ireland. Maybe just not an eastern Europe thing? It's corn and butter. Do you not use butter on regular corn either? Because that's just as common, and if anything, it goes better on popcorn than regular corn. Wait, I didn't know people ate popcorn without butter? I eat it in milk, personally.  Pretty good. What the god damn fuck? Oh, its so good. You have to try it. Wouldn't everything get soggy? Or worse, ~~expelled~~ greasy? Eh, a little. The popcorn absorbs most of it. Just seriously, go to that snack exchange subreddit and get a bag of microwavable movie theater buttered popcorn.  Real butter is far, far better. Just melt some, drizzle (not pour!) it on, and toss to coat. Add a little salt... heaven. So beautifully greasy.  "butter"

There's no real butter in it, it's just butter flavored oil.... And it's amazing. You must try the popcorn from an American movie theatre someday  Did the jar have a lid on? Couldn't you just have ran it under a hot tap in the bathroom? Needed butter; no time to think. dafuq is "nutritional yeast"? LOL its what a lot of vegans use in replacement of some cheese. It comes in a can like grated parmesan and has a slightly sweet/nutty flavor. Is good but does not taste like cheese. 

Source: My momma is vegan.  I'm not a vegan or even a vegetarian and yeast on popcorn is delicious. Same here. I put it on my popcorn, pasta too.  I assumed you were going to run the jar under hot water... Kurwa jaki amerykanin narkotyki zapierdala... Czy mgbym Pana popieprzyc praon kukurydz? &gt;TL;DR: My American love of grease makes Poles think I'm a crackhead who enjoys flavoring my food with urine

The reaction was based on your crazy behavior, not the grease. The Polish love of grease far, far outstrips anything Americans could come up with. We have this thing called smalec ('peasant's grease') which is essentially rendered pork fat with little crispy bits in it. We spread it on bread by the giant spoonful and eat it before meals. Just... pure pig lard.  We also fry bread slices in fat and eat it as a snack.

At last that's what my mom told me as she fried bread slices in fat and served it to me on a plate. It's true. Our people fry lots of things in fat. It's their way.  This sounds far grosser than buttered popcorn to this American. You actually weren't giving them an accurate portrayal of American popcorn by putting actual butter on your popcorn. I worked in a movie theater for 6 years, it's not actually butter that you get on your popcorn. It's butter flavored oil. That's why if you pour melted butter on your popcorn at home, it's makes the popcorn soggy and gorss. [This is what we used,] (http://siterepository.s3.amazonaws.com/00329201006291055446678.jpg). It's constantly in a liquid state and put into a warmer with a pump to stay hot. Except actual melted butter on popcorn at home is yummy. See, this is a real American. Only real Americans would do this to prove that our way of popcorn consumption is superior. God bless America! Just so you know it's not butter they put on your popcorn. It's an oil that is butter flavored. You can buy it in grocerie stores. Side note: it's the same oil that pizza hut uses to coat their pans they put pizza in.  What, um... what movie did you see? was expecting broken glass and a buttery pocket. I'm a bot, *bleep*, *bloop*. Someone has linked to this thread from another place on reddit:

- [/r/bestoftldr] [TL;DR: My American love of grease makes Poles think I'm a crackhead who enjoys flavoring my food with urine](https://np.reddit.com/r/bestofTLDR/comments/38dvu9/tldr_my_american_love_of_grease_makes_poles_think/)

- [/r/nocontext] ["I'm a crackhead who enjoys flavoring my food with urine"](https://np.reddit.com/r/nocontext/comments/38frem/im_a_crackhead_who_enjoys_flavoring_my_food_with/)

[](#footer)*^(If you follow any of the above links, please respect the rules of reddit and don't vote in the other threads.) ^\([Info](/r/TotesMessenger/wiki/) ^/ ^[Contact](/message/compose/?to=\/r\/TotesMessenger))*

[](#bot) bleep bloop Those "fat american" jokes are justified when you have such a problem that you try to sneak butter into a cinema. Great story. But this is one of those things that really makes me wonder why people are so stubborn about food. I'm not picky at all, and as an American having spent some time in Poland also, I loved all of their food and just ate everything the way they did. I even put ketchup on my pizza (gasp!) like they do. When in Rome.. er, Rzym.. er, Krakw. You know American movie theater's don't even use butter on their popcorn? It's oil and it tastes good, but is absolutely horrible for you.  Butter is not the same as movie theater butter.  There is no way you could show them.  What made you think this was in any way a real plan?   Hot water from the sink over a sealed jar would provide enough heat to melt the butter.

Use several paper towels to grab the now hot jar, and you're golden. Brit here, I like my popcorn buttered and salted please. And that makes you an honorary American.  Lighters can't melt butter beams  https://i.imgur.com/2VzmC.gif Butter like actual butter you put in toast or another sort of butter? 

Why would you put actual butter on popcorn?  Actual, melted butter. A lot of air-poppers have a special pan on top to melt it.


 You put actual butter on popcorn for the same reason you put it on lobster, crab, artichoke, or potatoes... because it's delicious, duh! ;p



Coconut oil works too, it's actually used in a lot of kettlecorn. Just add salt &amp; sugar. 

I'm curious as to what this other butter you're imagining to exist would be like.  Because it's fucking awesome. Seriously, it's butter. Who the fuck doesn't like butter? Those who's chins don't glow yellow Same butter, but it's usually salted butter. It's done for the same reason you put butter on anything, as a condiment for the flavor.  As the crowd parted in front of you, not knowing what you held in the mysterious jar they began to chant. What you got B?? What you got!?! What you got B!?! Haha, I didn't even make the yellow fluid- bathroom connection until the last line.  I just thought they thought you were doing drugs. I bet if you had the butter in a ziploc next to your skin, it would have stayed melted enough. Great story, I had audible snickering. I should not have read this in work. My face has been wonky for the last ten minutes because I'm trying not to laugh. Ditto. I had to stifle laughter from the bathroom at work.  Why did I read that as Dildo? Have I become an internets? Why didn't you just run the jar under hot water??? Are you sure that your life isn't a sitcom? TIL that many countries don't put butter on popcorn... TIL that some do, I didn't even see butter thing ever mentioned in American tv shows where they eat fast food all the time. UK here. about 20 years ago cinemas would let you choose butter or sweet.  at some point it changed to just sweet or salty. I miss buttered popcorn. [deleted] If only there had been some papery substance available to use as insulation for the hot jar.  Life Pro Tip: Never use actual butter on popcorn. Always use a butter flavored cooking spray. So freakin good. I don't get why Europeans are always talking crap about American eating habits, considering that a Five Guys in London has lines going out the door.

And European food isn't exactly fat-free. The Germans love sausages; Italians, Provencals, Spaniards and Greeks use loads of olive oil every day; Denmark is notorious for the amount of pork it consumes; Slavs use lots of lard in their cooking; French haute cuisine consists of a lot of possibly inedible food like snails made palatable by being drowned in butter and cream based sauces.

Americans might deep fry butter once a year at a state fair, but in Scotland, everything can and will be deep fried all the time. 

And look at all the kebab shops across the continent.

It's more likely that Americans are, on average, fatter than Europeans because we drive everywhere instead of walking or using next to non existent public transit. Americans, always trying to get their fix. Would you be surprised that as an European, this is quite a plausible, easily to believe because typical American behaviour?

I lol'd. This is the best read I've had in reddit!  I laughed so hard i cried! God bless you for the lols Hah, I feel for you son.  I don't eat dairy, so I bring in a small bag of olive oil to pour on my popcorn.  

The visual is... unflattering.  Name checks out You cannot get salty/greasy popcorn in Asia! It makes me very sad. Sweet popcorn just isn't the same...  Kettlecorn FTW Life goals: have my future son describe me as a "fun guy to make the trip with" especially if the trip is to college orientation and not, say, a parole meeting... Are you implying that parole meetings aren't fun? Or psychedelics  YEAH man I interpreted it as 'a fungi to take a trip with' too..... I thought I was gonna be the only one.... &gt;kindly explaining to everyone how stupid I was 


Priceless. My Father's love I read kinda instead of kindly, kindly makes it indeed better kinda better* That's not TIFU, that's a great bonding memory! True from that point of view, but my dad was introducing himself to all my future professors as "my father". I think most of them took it in good humour though it didn't help my embarrassment much! You gave him a wonderful gift! A story to tell forever! definitely a very "dad" story to tell too  Hi there, teacher, I'm "My Father." Nice to meet you, My Father, I'm dad! Hello I'm dad! Yes this is ~~dog~~ dad Ha! I was thinking that. Great minds think alike.  .ekila kniht sdnim taerG .taht gnikniht saw I !aH  No, it is opposition. No, I am your father.  DADDY! I have missed you! How was work? You left twenty-five years ago so it must have been a very important job!  :( Nooooooooooooooo!!!!! &gt; No, I am My Father.

FTFY
 Hey dad, did you finally get the milk? Boy, this is gonna be the best milk ever! Hey, it's me your father No its not My dad's not a cellphone yes */u/daslek has changed their name to My Father.* What if John Connor sent his own ass back and before he figured it out, ended up fucking his own mother, thus creating himself.


Then he'd be his own father.


WHAT. Take it easy on the [dad life](http://youtu.be/DOKuSQIJlog) Why did that video have to end My late grandfather always said "everyone loves a story." That was a story, and I loved it!!! Well, if it's a big University, the good thing is at least they might remember you! And for a silly, cute mistake, not something egregious. (If you wanted a letter of rec, might be easier if the Prof remembers you super well because of this. Of course also talk in/outside of class, but yes!)  Your Dad now has a lifetime supply of /r/dadjokes Is your dad Phil Dunphy? No his dad is My Father didn't you read his nametag? So you're brothers? That would be awesome, wouldn't it?  I never feel embarrassed.   I would expect that from from someone who can break rectums so effortlessly. That may not be true.  It might require great effort and intestinal fortitude for him to break rectums. Reddit usernames never cease to amuse me Same here...

And here are your Plants: http://cdn.easymix.com.au/images/2014articles/plantsHEAR.jpg

Oh, wait...
those arent mine...


Oh, wait...
sorry, my pants are in the wash... I once killed a man with a single verse. username checks out....

what song was it?
YMCA?
Rick Astley's Never Gonna Give you up?

or some other song... Arethra Franklin. Girl had mad flow.

&gt;Man, I'm sick of this shit.
You spit like a bitch.

&gt;Like some stupid motherfucker livin' out in the sticks.

&gt;Thinkin' you stand with the greatest?

&gt;Bitch, you the hatest. 

&gt;Just another broke sucker on his knees for my playlist.

It's a shame her rap career never took off. A [different](https://youtu.be/q_qUiytLYRc) song. perhaps you should loan him some grease "loan" What, he's not going to give it back afterwards? What a twat. Think we could pull a cult.... I mean religion out of this? Let's do this! Well, I'll be on call if you need me  The hero we need. At what university do you meet your professors before classes start like this?  In the UK many universities hold induction days for courses months before they actually start and before most students even know if they'll have the grades to get in. It's a cool way of getting familiar with the area, campus, professors etc plus the free food is great You made an impression early on, and not a negative one. That is a good thing in my book. "Hey! See this fucker here beside me acing all your classes? My balls did that!" Your dad's thoughts while wearing the badge. This where I couldn't hold it. Had to laugh.
My mom just looked at me confused. Normally at this hour (6:15) at breakfast I don't make sound except for "good morning".
Thanks for the good start in the day!  Eat breakfast with your mother and stop reading Reddit at the table! One day you'll miss having the opportunity, and *then* you can read Reddit at the table. You're probably right. But I am not a morning person and breakfast for me is about 10 minutes. I enjoy dinner with my parents though.
If I had a more permanent job I wouldn't stay at my parents anyway. I kind of miss living alone "Good humour"....#dadjokes Lol I can just picture Papa Carotti troll dad prancing around the entire campus going telling everyone he's his own daddy.  I seriously needed this laugh.  Like really, really needed it. Thank you.  Builds character!  I agree ... it may have been embarrassing for you in the moment, but he was pretty much obligated by the bylaws of Dad-ness to do exactly what he did.

There was no other way. ;-) Bondage memories with dad are the best memories! Craster is that you? Who will be attending? Me


Who will be attending with you? My Father Hehe. Reminds me of the scene from rush hour He is Mi, and I am Yu! But who are you? I have told you! Sweet, what does mine say? Dude.
 But what does mine say ?  Sweet!
 And then?  Dude, what does mine say? Sweet. Fook Mi? No, Fook Yoo!

Whoops, wrong movie. You're going the right way for a smacked bottom and I don't care who knows it! Death to Ming! [For those who are lost] (https://youtu.be/dU4lYcN6zEY). Who's on first.  Where do you live?
At home With my Father and my Mother Do you realize how close you were from putting just Dad and him having an actual reason to introduce himself as Dad to everyone? Classic Classic Dad. 

 Vintage Dad. I saw the title and was wondering what exotic cultural custom and complicated family arrangement and local dialect would mean the difference would result in a tifu.

Oh no it's just a derp. I was waiting for some kind of prayer/religious thing. I immediately thought that his biological father was some kind of violent criminal, and the man who raised him was his dad. Pleasantly surprised by the actual story. Just say you out dadjoked him. Are you OPs dad? Anon "Girl" Guy In Real Life call him caitlyn online That's actually a great story! I was expecting something way less light hearted than that!  Yeah, like finding out he wasn't his father or something.  Reverse Darth Vader situation. I guess they used to call this "Being adopted" And here I was thinking it could be a story about your father revealing how you were adopted Lol, that would be kind of fucked up.. That reminds of one time when I registered for a 3 day Microsoft event, and I put my title as "VP of Awesome! "
   
Little did I know that the title we put would be on our name tags.   As a dad, I completely understand how it would be impossible for him not to wear it all day. Did it actually ask "Who is attending?" instead of "Name of person attending?" No spot for first/last name?

That sounds like poor wording on their part. Perhaps it could be because of statistics about who people bring with them. And no oversight. Even if it was automated, you would think that there would be somebody whose job it was to look at these name tags and  make sure no one said they were attending with Seymour Butts or Ben Dover. The wording as well as I can remember was "Who will be attending with you?". I guess in my mind I was expecting later on for it to ask for the name as well. Totally their fuck up then. I'm surprised more people didn't do the same.  If the online form didn't explicitly ask for a first and last name I would call that bad Web design. Not your fuck up imo, but still a great story.  Don't forget Mike Hunt I actually did something similar once. I went to a large tech conference where my company had a stand. When filling in the details for the name badge under title I put my job title "Technical Lead".

My badge was: "Technical Lead Yodi_midd" in massive letters... My boss face palmed and told me it would have to do as we had customers to meet and no time to sort it out. Stupid question but what is wrong with that? I believe they meant title as in Mr., Mrs., Dr., etc... Even then Technical Lead still sounds like a perfectly reasonable title, along with Manager John and Engineer Bob.  I'm cool as long as I don't have to sit next to DBA Barry. And FNG Derrick 


\&gt;:( Kinda my point the text box was the same size as all the others. But it actually meant Title as in ['Mr','Mrs','Dr',....]. Seriously who the hell made that GUI! A drop down box or at the very least a valid input checking system should have been there. 

&gt; I decided to bring my dad because he's a fun guy to make the trip with and thought he might be interested in looking around.

Translation: My dad drove me.




 So this would be even better if your name is Luke I personally think Malfoy would have fit better Total dad move I think this is one of my favorite TIFU of all time. It's so innocent and goofy. Best part is the person who made the name tags that said "Fuck it, i want to read about this on reddit. For some reason I thought you were going to somehow end up with a priest.. You set your dad up for a dad joke? Oh, okay.. Ah, dads... They're such... dads! :) "Luke, I'm My Father" You are not wrong, he is indeed a fun guy to have a trip with. Haha this is actually hilarious! When I was in elementary school my dad actually signed something for class "Lulu's daddy" my mom had to white out and sign over it "/  "I'm My Father's son." Your father is definitely a dad That's sweet. Your father just wanted to completely embarrass you on purpose on more time before you left home! You made his wish come true :D the only thing that would have made it better is if your nametag said hungry I love it! Your father is a proper dad! Thats the most bad-ass dad-joke ever You deserved it and your dad is awesome.  
Maybe this subreddit should be renamed TOTIFU (This One Time, I Fucked Up). &gt;  but instead he insists on wearing the badge all day, kindly explaining to everyone how stupid I was.

That's how you know he's your real dad. this was the best tifu story ive read here in a while "Hello, Mr. Carotti."

"Please, call me Carotti. Mr. Carotti is My Father." This is the cutest TIFU I've seen in a long time! My dad once miswrote my name. If that's a fuck up, you'r doing pretty good in life ;D  I assume your name is "Luke?" I'd just make sure to stick by your side all day long.  I'm sure it would get a few laughs and break the tensions early on before the tour started.  I wish I had children so that they could do that for me!  LoL /r/dadjokes
 Same thing happened to me. Except my father never showed up. The person making the badges could have easily put "Mr. Carotti" on the badge but decided to make you feel stupid instead.

Hah. LOL!  I have a very sweet friend at work, and we were talking about Father's Day.  She told me I had the date wrong.  I said, "Oh!  I have no idea.  I don't have a father." And then looked up to exactly the horrified expression I expected.  Haha.  Poor girl.  She told me she would be my dad and accept presents.  She just has to tell me what day it is.    Aww, that's a really adorable "fuck-up" that could have gone wrong in so many ways. It'll be sweet and funny once the shame and self-loathing will pass, I bet.  
Especially once you're out of college. He just made the ultimate dad joke. Well done OP. Darth Vader Nooooooooooooooooooooooooooo Not your fuck up, OP, they asked "Who will be attending with you?" and you answered it. They didn't ask "What to type on your guest's name badge", so yeah. My Father: 1

OP: 0 I'm really glad that the TIFU's I see now are lighthearted derp stories and no longer about losing your wife, losing control over your bodily functions, or general life destruction. That's not a fuckup, it's an **official** dad joke. Good on ya! I would consider this a win, and would frame that name badge. TIFU in creating a flawed online booking system for my school's college orientation. "Who are you?"
"I am My Father."
"Yeah? You and Jeebus...no seriously..." You'd think that professor would have learned to stop being such an asshole after Albert Einstein gave him such a theistic smackdown. I mean, the whole class applauded and everything.  Your dad trolled you hard I think some troll credit should go to the person who made out the name tag to say "My Father" Very true. A very understated part of this puzzle  So true, I still haven't worked out if I got trolled by an admissions officer or if it was just an oversight. There aren't many TIFUs nowadays. 
It's all ELIFU -Earlier in Life I Fucked Up. to be fair, when you're in the middle of fucking up, it can be hard to post on Reddit I think the fuckup was on whoever printed those. Like, how stupid does someone have to be to print that?...unless of course it was a program doing it automatically. This is the cutest thing ever, and i'm glad that he didn't get upset at you! Though I do feel sorry for you OP, this sounds very embarrassing. Anyways, good luck in college! You did him a favor by giving him a great conversation ice-breaker. And then he beat me with a set of jumper cables. There now the story is complete.  If I had been the one handling the name badges, I'd probably have changed it to Darth Vader ;) Man, I can't wait to be a Dad and embarrass my children OPs father seems to be the coolest guy ever. Cheers. probably the proudest moment of his life. kudos on your mistake son. #dadjokes I thought it will lead to a roll call, or an announcement like..."we are waiting for MY FATHER to come up on stage"...

or something like, do we have "MY FATHER here" That would have been even better! I did something somewhat similar in high school- when taking the ACTs, for school name, I put my own name. My thought process at the time was that they wanted some sort of nickname that I was called while at school. Much, much later I realized I was a dumbass and they just wanted the name of my school. That just tells everyone that your dad is one awesome guy! Make sure you tell him that every once and awhile! :-) Those are the moments that I'm a dad for. Stuff like that makes all the stress and heartache worth it. And any chance to embarrass the child is one that must be taken.  Plot twist: he's not your father. Your first name wouldn't happen to be Luke would it? Luke, I am My Father I like your dad. You're the user they warn me about. You got off easy.

Source: Have dad. TIEADJ

Today I enabled a dad joke.  I did the same thing on a college visit form I filled out a couple days ago. I'll just wait it out.  Oh man this actually made me laugh, well done OP. Well done. It's like the time I forged a late note and signed it "mom". Thank god I caught THAT one... Even his teacher calls him my father Your dad is a mushroom? Please tell me he met someone named Luke that day... I thought it was going to cut the name and read 'my fat'  So your my-father is a very important humans being to you? I would say my father, my-father is a very important father figure in my life. Ut would be more fun if you had seen "home" then Imagine Jim parsons saying it!
Get it together OP I have a feeling I would've done the same thing. Your dad is awesome. I did something similar in elementary school.

We were having a award ceremony for all the adults that volunteered at the schools field trips, so they called me down to the office and asked the full name of my grandma. 

Now I'm Danish, so since I was born I've always called my grandma farmoa, so I assumed that's her name, farmoa Nielsen.

So the awards all get handed out, and my grandma just casually went up and grabbed hers, everything was going fine.

So fast forward to the end of the day and my dads finally explains that farmoa, means fathers mother in Danish, so I literally had them say "grandma Nielsen, please come up to the front". Apparently she went and saw my dad after the assembly. LMAO! Good unintentional click bait though When I was at summer camp, I wrote home to say how miserable I was, and addressed it to "Mommy". I even got my address wrong, because I put the town I lived in instead of the town of the post office we got our mail from. It turns out, my bus driver, in addition to working at the general store, was the post mistress for my town, recognized the address, and hand-delivered it to my Mom. That story gets told a lot. :) "Hi My Father, I'm Dad." I had a somewhat similar story where I gained a nickname for life. At college orientation, I filled out the paperwork:

First Name: W
Middle Name: &lt;Middle Name&gt;
Last Name: &lt;Last Name&gt;

Preferred Name: &lt;Middle Name&gt;

So I show up and my name tag says W... just W. I was at the same orientation as a friend, so ever since, I have been W. Dude how is this a fuck up? This is freaking wonderful!  Is your name Luke?? Would've made it so epic.  This didn't happen to me but instead to a good friend of mine a long time ago.  His full name is Robert Hunter Watson but he goes by Hunter.  Obviously, he put his legal name on his college application.  So freshman year he's sitting in first day orientation and chatting with the rest of the students on his hall.  The senior who was running the orientation was taking attendance to see if everyone was there before they started the tour.  He's calling out "Robert?  Robert?  Oh well, I guess this guy Robert isn't here yet so let's wait for him before we start."  About 30 minutes pass with everyone wondering where Robert could be before Hunter realizes he is Robert and sheepishly has to explain to the senior (and the rest of the kids on his hall, including his future girlfriend) that he screwed up his own name on the first day of college.  Before you ask: (i) names were changed to protect the innocent yet dullwitted and (ii) no, he didn't realize that the senior didn't call the name "Hunter" for some reason - probably because he was busy chatting with said future girlfriend. I plan on being that father some day.  I haven't matured much in my first 45 years so I would imagine by the time my girls get to college not much will have changed. Congrats on your first Dad Joke, even if unintended. This is a glance into your future. (If OP is male?) Great dad you have. See it as a life lesson. oh hey,happy fathers day  http://i.imgur.com/Tg9caDu.jpg  What an excellent story for this delivery person to tell....to everyone he knows.  Delivering happiness one package at a time. Such a package, only for adults (   ). Well.. since there is no possibility of choking hazard kids can have fun too! rekt erekt
(obviously..)
 Actually small parts can get lodged in the throat... only if it can reach it. 10/10, perfect execution &gt; Delivering hap-penis one package at a time

FTFY "you can help me. I am looking for a penis. I want a penis." Could have been worse. Package could have been from Discount Dave's Deluxe Vibrator Emporium and House of Latex. "Discount Dave's Deluxe Dildo Depot" has a nicer ring to it. yeah, I thought that was too subtle tho'. The delivery guy's mind will jump to the same conclusions we did. ["you mean ha-ppiness?"](http://i1.wp.com/metronewsca.files.wordpress.com/2014/09/pegg.jpg?crop=407px%2C0px%2C1557px%2C1027px&amp;resize=618%2C408) "Yes! A penis" My husband is a UPS driver.  This, and crazier shit, happens.   UPS Driver here (not your husband). I've had some wierd encounters myself.

One was when the new iPhones came out. I had a stop where the customer ordered 7 iPhones. So I walk up to the house with the phones in a tote box and knocked on the door. As I'm kneeled down scanning them a guy walks out the front door in his tighty whiteys and an open robe and stands not 1 foot away with his crotch right by my head. I look up at him and he has the happiest creepiest smile I've ever bared witness to. "Lot of iPhones" I say while quickly trying to scan them and get his signature. His smile gets bigger and he starts nodding his head and starts rocking back and forth on his heels getting even closer to my face. I jump up with the last 2 in my hands and take a couple steps back and scan them. I get his signature and tell him to have a good one. Briskly walk back to my truck and as I buckle up I look and he's still on the porch looking at me.

Another was at an apartment complex where a shirtless woman answered the door while breastfeeding her kid in one hand. It kinda threw me off and I'm sure I stared at her breasts for longer than an acceptable period of time. Caught myself, said "Hey!" and asked for a signature. She had the grumpiest look on her face and never said a word, just signed my DIAD and closed the door. Not my best moment but DMSB.  Grumpy face was probably not about you. If she's comfortable enough to answer the door while breastfeeding, she knows/doesn't care/is trying to normalize reactions from BF.

My first child, I would have covered up, but still answered the door without unlatching. My second, I was so busy with the two, I wouldn't have even notice I was topless, much less noticed a shock-gawk. Pretty sure if I have a third I'm never going to get to put on a shirt again. Yeah, I've answered the door while breastfeeding plenty of times. She wasn't grumpy because he looked at her boobs - her boobs, by that point, have taken on the significance of kitchen utensils. She was either grumpy because she'd had no sleep, or grumpy because the knock at the door woke her kid up and she had to feed it *again*. It's also possible that the package was for teethers and diaper rash cream and she'd been waiting for it for a week. If it had crossed her mind that another adult human being found her breasts attractive at that point, it would probably have made her goddamn day. &gt;If it had crossed her mind that another adult human being found her breasts attractive at that point, it would probably have made her goddamn day.

Sad but so true.  Same here.  With the first I tried to keep covered.  Then I said fuck it- they are boobs.  They are doing their job, why the hell cover them up?  I realize everyone has different comfort levels and I should be excited so see women in public  breastfeeding, but part of me really wants to just go over and yell at them to TAKE THE DAMN COVER OFF!   While I agree with the sentiment, some of use cover for the baby. My second kid had to be covered even if we were at home alone, because otherwise she'd get distracted by everything around her and it would take 2 hours to feed her. Pop a blanket over her head and she'd be done in 10-20 minutes. I have 4 kids and I realize things like this.  That is why I said "part of me wants to"   I would never do it in a million years.  I do wish more women weren't made to feel so ashamed of their bodies and breastfeeding.  :( Oh absolutely. Its always such an encouragement to see women breastfeeding happily out and about. On trains, at the park, in cafes, in churches, at the supermarket.. Seeing it become normal again is brilliant. Me too... for... ah... women's rights... I think I tend to creep out nearly every delivery guy that comes here. It is just by coincidence. Most come in the late afternoon/early evening and that is generally when I take a break from my legs (double amputee) for the day. Takes too long to put them back on when someone is ringing the doorbell or knocking, and I am not good at wheelchairing (most of the time I don't even know where it is in the house bc I rarely use it). So, I get around on my knees... and that is how I answer the door for delivery people. I got flowers today... smiled awkwardly at the guy, then said "sorry dude, just took my legs off..." I don't think he knew how to react.  I drove a beer delivery truck for about 14 years, but there were things that sometimes happened out on the route that even made me say W.T.F. I've been cornered in  a cooler by a semi naked 300+ pound "woman" that was looking for "beerman love" while I was stocking the shelf (I wound up crawling for my life through the bottom shelf to get away from her....lol). I've come across bums getting it on in dumpsters while I was disposing of the cardboard boxes...(20 years later, that memory is still unfortunately fresh...) Had to deliver to a store where a murder had just occurred...(The body was still there....) Plus there was about a million other things that happened through the years. While I read this, I imagined you were Simon Pegg.  It seemed to work for the story. I mean, they're boobs. You're supposed to look at them. That's like half their evolutionary advantage. The other half is feeding things that dudes help you make after we stare at 'em for a bit, so it all works out in the end. So in this story, this lady's boobs are operating at maximum efficiency.  My God, what have You created  I answered the door bf a kid before. Church people haven't been back since then. Said baby is now 13. Holy shit it took me a sec to figure out what bf'ing meant and breast feeding isn't the first place my mind went.  Theres a solicitor always bugging me, banging on my door over and over and putting the most awful backwards conservative paraphernalia on my doorstep. I can't tell you how badly I want to answer the door naked one day in hopes they'll never come back. 

I'd do it in a heartbeat if I wasn't afraid of sex offender status. 

 But it's your house. Pretty sure you wouldn't get sex offender status for that, so long as you don't step outside. Before anyone takes this guy's advice, I'm pretty sure it depends on the state you're in. Some states let you be naked anywhere on your property, others only let you be naked if you're inside the house and not exposing yourself to anyone outside. Well they have to be able to prove it even if state law is against it. 

In many states nudity by itself within your domicile is not criminal even if visible, as long as you are not engaging in sexual acts. So standing in your doorway nude is fine. Standing in your doorway stroking it, is not.

Besides most people are so shocked by nudity outside a shower,  that they don't have the wherewithal to complain. Where I live, you are breaking the law if someone *sees you naked through your own window* &gt; Briskly walk back to my truck and as I **buckle up**....

I read that completely the wrong way. We'll probably see this story in an Askreddit thread sometime in the near future.  I love how we redditors assume everybody uses reddit. Name me one person on here who doesn't use reddit. ..../u/unidan.....^^I'm ^^sorry. http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_Jackdaw_centers_in_the_United_States Damn. I'd believe he meant that someone would simply re:tell this story in an Askreddit and it probably won't be the delivery guy.. I mean, op already told this story to everyone he didn't know.  Sounds like you were the one that delivered a package today. (   ) *he's talking about his penis* &gt;I'm probably a sex offender.

Judging by your post history and the colloquialisms you use in this post, I'm almost certain that you're from the UK. According to the [Sexual Offences Act 2003, Section 66.](http://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/2003/42/section/66) the exposure of your genitals would have to be intentional and you would have to be intending to offend someone for it to be a crime.

**TL;DR You're not a sex offender :)** Thank god CORVO, YOU NEED TO COME BACK AND SAVE EMILY. Nah man, I have to kill granny rags for the 20th time. this is the most British thing I've read in a long time "Bloke", " biscuit". "Bullocks" "Courier", "Parcel". "Arse" "Baby's buggy" Americans don't call them couriers or parcels? What do you say?  UPS guy/FedEx guy and package.

Just found out the P in UPS stands for parcel. Ain't that somethin'. I thought it was United Postal Service  USPS is United States Postal Service I don't think it's legal for anyone but USPS to operate a postal service (same with Canada Post up here). They're couriers.  So pretty sure it's parcel.  [deleted] and 'package' sometimes refers to a mans private parts. It's easy to do just follow these steps [The "garage"? Hey fellas, the "garage"! Well, ooh la di da, Mr. French Man.](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HXJkLBj6G1k) Delivery guy/UPS man; package  In America, a courier is someone who is responsible for taking a package or letter from its point of origin, directly to its destination. A courier doesn't use any kind of processing center. Sometimes, the courier will take the package/letter to another location for final delivery, as seen sometimes when you select two day or next day shipping when ordering online. Ah that makes sense. I'm in Canada and I've heard delivery driver, or just calling them the "FedEx"/"UPS"/"Purolator" guy, but I've also heard courier used to mean someone from one of those delivery services other than Canada Post.  Regular Canada Post deliverers are called mailman/mail lady. 

We call them parcels here too. Sometimes package, but I hear parcel more.  No, it's "delivery driver" or usually UPS or FedEx or DHL etc.  We just say package.  "Did UPS deliver (or drop) my package off yet?"  "I'm waiting for the UPS man to show up"  

If something is coming through the USPS (United States Postal Service), we just say "a package in the mail" or "the mailman left a package on the front porch".  "I need to run to the Post Office to mail a package"
Larger cities have "courier service" but those are usually just referred to as "bike messengers" or whatever.  
 Mailman; mail
UPS guy; package
FedEx guy; package Mail carriers, mail man/woman, ups guy/lady or delivery drivers and packages or mail. That's what I call them. delivery guy, package Bollocks* Sandra* Americans call them dog biscuits too. As a British person, I didn't even realise that it was British. Everything's British where I come from. Bollocks. I said British too much. On a site where it's mostly Americans, it seemed instantly recognisable as British to me. British. I clocked it when he said "proper" Yeah, 'it was a proper walk in the countryside', made me realise he was one of us! And "Happy days". 
 'Bollock naked' was the true giveaway for me "A bit of a hike" did it for me. Still not quite sure how this translates to American English. A small hike?? Was a shower really necessary afterward? I am American and I say "a bit of a ..." all the time. That was my clue Same. It was only the comments pointing it out that made me notice. I could tell by his accent.  I'm Australian and I didn't know it was British. British I could spot the British in the first sentence. The English are great at telling raunchy stories. I'm British and didn't clock on till the end when he said 'called the bloody dog back inside' - to be fair was slightly confusing when he was talking about basking in the sunshine.. Sunshine?! Did you not notice? it's annual sunshine week. It was annual sunshine weekend, it is now autumn. I was wondering why the guy would give the dog a biscuit. Then I realized he meant one of those dog cookie things. &gt; one of those dog cookie things.

You mean a dog biscuit.  That's what they're called in the US as well. Not always. Here (Florida) they're called treats, and other places call them cookies or biscuits. Is FL really part of the USA? Really? in name only That was once a legitimate question, but then Florida started Burger King. Since Burger King became widespread the question is settled. "Treat" is a broad term, it includes lots of edible items ranging from bones to bacon (as well as things that don't start with a B). Biscuits and cookies refer to a specific type of treat. So, on oct 31st, kids ask for dog food? We have close family friends who are Scottish. Stayed with them for a few weeks when I was younger. 2 kids in the family, a boy around my age (5/6 at the time), and a girl (basically newborn). Boy was prone to tantrums, and he started one when my da said "If you don't behave, the [cookie monster](http://i.dailymail.co.uk/i/pix/2013/09/22/article-0-18297CEF00000578-775_634x426.jpg) won't visit you!", meaning if he keeps being a twit he won't get cookies. He kept being a twit, and the best line from his tantrum was **"IT'S NOT THE COOKIE MONSTER, IT'S THE BISCUIT MONSTER!"** and he threw himself on the ground in an epic meltdown. Da just chuckled, and ate the cookie he was teasing Boy with.  Why did I expect something else other than the cookie monster in that link? Kiwi here, and we tend to use British English. Informally, to me a cookie has always been something rich and chewy like the ones your mum makes. A 'biscuit' is something crunchy. The word even *sounds* crunchy. If someone promises me a cookie and it turns out to be a goddamn milk biscuit, heads are gonna roll.  Biscuit Monster? Here in England we get the regular Sesame Street, Cookie Monster is Cookie Monster. I guess Scotland has their own version where they all wear kilts and play bagpipes and chase down wild haggis' on the mountainside... I'm american and call dog treats "biscuits" (mid Atlantic) I'm thinking that your sister is a meticulous genius who planned this like Danny Ocean. Obviously the delivery guy was in on it but to use the little girl to lure the dog outside is cold. "Bluebells in the woods"


TEXANS!  TO THE WOODS!  OUR ICE CREAM IS HIDING THERE! I would totally get on a plane to England if I knew they had our ice cream in the woods. one day that little girl will think back into her childhood and your appendage is burned into her memory lmao but until then she wont think anything of it and be a normal little girl.  Blasphemy!!! She's clearly scarred for life and OP should go on some sort of registry that poisons his neighbours against him and destroys his career options! Don't forget the completely necessary jail time. Oh and the blindness to any violence inflicted upon such a man by other violent inmates ranging from murderers to dealers of drugs such as marijuana!!! I vaguely remember seeing a naked man by accident as a child. The thing is... an erect penis is a very angry, noticeable organ, a flaccid one... not so much. I mostly remember being curious about the hair.

Apparently, I kept saying to my mom, "Alf! Mommy! I saw Alf! That man is hiding Alf!"... [deleted] I mean, death is also natural, but there's a better way to teach about it to a five-year-old than unveiling a corpse in the neighbor's lawn I imagined showing a small child a dead body and found this inappropriately funny. I agree. What's the point of hiding natural body parts? They will discover them eventually anyway. In my opinion, it is probably better for children to see the genitals of the other gender BEFORE they are associated with a sexual connotation.

(and I am probably on a list for posting that comment) Can a person with a British accent please narrate this and upload it to youtube, that would make my day. Great story by the way. Okay here you go /u/dub1808. Here is me in my pretty damn posh british accent reading the story to ya for, and I quote, "top kek". I hope this is at least somewhat amusing.

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=k6tG55e-p14&amp;feature=youtu.be You know what? There should be a subreddit where redditors narrate posts in British accents.  Wonderful! Somebody give this Englishman a biscuit or some gold Have some gold! I'm almost tempted. How British does it have to be, I have a pretty British voice tbf because I'm from London and moved to Surrey. 

If this is something people want I might do it for the bant

Edit: ok its 3am in England, I'll go to bed soon and I'll do it when I wake up maybe, people seem to really want it aha

Edit 2: Just woke up, nevermind, others got there first
 Any sort of British, I'm desperate. It would be top kek 'A British accent' is a *pretty* wide spectrum. I have one but I'm not English; would that be grand? :P Do it Alright well, I'm British and I did it. 

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=k6tG55e-p14&amp;feature=youtu.be

Hope it satisfies.  Daniel Radcliff/10. Well done man Please This awakens my interrest You open your sisters packages?  hmmm. To be fair, the dog opened his package. Exactly what I was thinking.  I was imagining you as a woman until the part about "junk basking in the summer sun" killed any element of sexiness. &gt; I quickly wrap a towel around my waist

Context clues, man. That's where I caught the hint as well.  I read the tl;dr first, and figured it was more likely to be a bloke from the sex offender reference. "Blueballs in the woods"
Did anybody else read it that way?
Edit: Grammar Lmao Bluebells, did your lady leave you hanging last night?  His little guys still begging to be relived of duty.
 It says "Bluebells in the woods." Holy fuck. Read it that way at first too! I just assumed that was the TIFU part Bollock naked is where I caught on. &gt; "junk basking in the summer sun" killed any element of sexiness.

I beg to differ. It's a very Hugh Laurie comic moment, works for me. It will be hilarious and sad if OP gets a notice that he is being charged as a sex offender, and if it could be delivered by the same delivery man that would be icing on the cake.  Operation Yewtree is spreading.  courier

parcel

bollock

bloody

Yep, definitely uncircumcised.  A fellow member of the Hooded Brotherhood. I lost it at "offending appendage" I lost it at "offending" You lost DAMN IT.  I lost it at appendage... or I might have lost my appendage I don't know! This story is popular

http://www.reddit.com/r/tifu/comments/2gs02n/tifu_by_accepting_a_fedex_package_in_a_towel/
http://www.reddit.com/r/tifu/comments/3852fp/tifu_startled_delivery_man_and_a_touch_of/ I knew I had read this before... Thanks for pointing this out. LESSON LEARNED: never answer the door in a towel while you have a dog running about freely.  sunny in England??  For once I DON'T BELIEVE YOU. Come on over.
Edit: Valid till this Friday only! it's always sunny in England Englandelphia. You had a shot and you blew it. I don't think I'd ever shield my kid's eyes from simple nudity.  She'll probably just say "Look, a penis!"  And I'll say, "Yep." Eh, context matters.  I wouldn't shield my kids from a sunbather but this poor fucker wasn't consenting to the show... he was just unfortunate.  It's more for this guy's benefit than the kid's.

EDIT:  [Example of nudity my kids found hilarious.  Don't watch Mr. Bean at work.](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MVQwlKRDKOA) Thank you for inspiring me to watch Mr. Bean again.  I'm afraid enough of accidentally being seen naked without the additional fear of being labeled a sex offender if such an accident were to happen. Isn't this a bit of a problem in our society? Worse still, good luck getting anyone to stand up for you then. You should've asserted dominance while naked. PISS EVERYWHERE. I think you misspelled jizz. Jizz is ~~love~~ dominance, jizz is life. Stage fright. Won't flow under the pressure. You know what? It's a dick. Every man has one. Her dad too. These problems come from the ridiculous notion that kids are "harmed" if they see body parts (in a non sexual setting). They're not. They're harmed by being repressed and kept dumb. 

Edit: my inbox reminds me i have to choose my words carefully; it's a penis! I like to call mine elephantnozzle so I'm just going to stick with that.  damn straight! don't give baby-names to body parts, say the proper name and don't stigmatise it.  Baby-names like "Little Tiny Computer"? I hope the delivery guy uses reddit and sees this.  I read this in an American accent until you said courier and parcel. My brain then read it in British the rest of the story  Well, at least the Google Maps car didn't drive past at that exact time, so at least you have that going for you. That would just be the icing on the cake. Imagine if it drove past and managed to capture this entire TIFU in one glorious image. /u/d0ggzilla, is the neighbor close with your sister? If so, you might have to pay for her silence on the matter. if she liked what she saw, he might have to work in her garden to keep the secret.  Well, she did seem to stare at it, and him quite a bit.  I'd assume any normal person would just go, yep, that's a dick, and move on instead of focusing on it for so long. I'd say your biggest FU was giving the internet your sister's name and address. Wait till 4chan gets hold of it. Did he? I don't see it either.  Where? So, did the dog still get a biscuit afterwards? Don't sex offenses generally require intent to arouse? (yourself or others) You should be fine. The delivery guy is a witness, and any good telling of the story would have a jury laughing its ass off. Omg. When I opened the image I snorted water out of my nose. Upvote to you.  Just be glad it wasn't at your own place.  You'd probably be forced to move out of sheer embarrassment. If anything, you should go over to the neighbor lady's house &amp; apologize/explain the story to her. 

She might invite you in for a cup of tea *wink wink* Dude, you have me in tears. You deserve a slow clap for this spectacular FU. Bravo. TIL I want a bath sheet.  Now we see TIFU by taking my daughter for a walk Special delivery *jaws drop*

I see what u did there One of the better TIFUs in a while. Well done.  The irony of the delivery contents is amazing  I'm just glad you didn't start with, "so this happened a few years ago...." So if you havent' already, I'd rush over to your neighbor and explain yourself (while respectfully clothed) before you get in trouble. That's not a fun trouble to be in from what I hear. I really hope we get a TIFU by delivering a package to a guy in a towel. Something tells me you aren't from the colonies. Best TIFU ever If you only would have opened that parcel.  When he said "bluebells in the forest" I read blueBALLS and thought this story was heading in a different erection Thing could have went worse. You could've been taking a cold shower.  Did you know that a towel is about the most massively useful thing an interstellar hitch hiker can have? Didn't do squat for you though. Absolutely classic.............I blew coffee outta my nose. Am I the only one who thinks this story would make a great porn flick? ( minus the little kids of course) I'd say the fuck up was on the neighbour's part. Teach the daughter what a penis is and it's not that big of a deal.  *waits patiently for delivery man's reddit post later this evening* Those are some ugly fucking towels. OP should probably tell us if they are a boy or a girl in the opening sentence of a story with a title like this.  Oh dear lord, if he had asked to go with you. Hilarious!
 Wow, what an awkward morning's fishing that would have been. "oh, uh... Sure... I just need to run home and grab all of my fishing gear. I somehow walked out the door without grabbing a single thing I would need for fishing. Ya know what? At this point the fishing trip seems like a hassle. What are you folks having for breakfast?"

edit: thanks for the gold Kangar. first you make the thread so i can even come up with the comment, then you gild me for the comment. you're a class act.  "This shan't be a problem. I bought new gear last week and didn't get rid of the old yet. I'ma skip the paper today and accompany you, it's getting worse each day anyway. Forget your plans, I got THE spot. So, you do know how to handle a phalange?" ["No, but your daughter sure does."](https://33.media.tumblr.com/eb9886f9a965d7b16bb3f4c7b1165bf8/tumblr_np3kdkwihO1svxayuo1_500.gif) Well, he already had a salty rod, so... The perfect plot for a sitcom episode ***Just finished banging your daughter!*** Probably wouldn't have got off the hook with that one. "Well son,  you smell like you just came BACK  from fishing."  "Well I was pretty deep in that fatty bass, she even swallowed my rig!"  Hook, line and sinker Sinker, I barely know her!  Pun intended? is now Hey what's that bar code doing there? seems to be the start of fibonacci sequence using 'I's Damn I wouldve never noticed that Barcodes are people too ya know. Barcodes' lives matter. Call 1-800barcode now to support and save these barcodes' lives. 

Again call 1-800barcode now and we'll double the protection for only 19.99 In the armsssss of an angelllll Yeah probably would have seemed fishy to him.  Yeah, he might have beat the crappie out of you. Mr. Jones: You're barely going fishing why do your hands smell like fish already?


 I had to cut bait before I went, sir. Good on you Kangar, wanna fuck my daughter?  I don't know-does she like to fish? Mr Jones: boy, does she?... ( ) I used to fingerbang my girlfriend under the blanket while we watched movies with her family. Luckily she kept a really clean shop, so smell wasn't an issue. To this day the movie Splash holds a special place in my heart.  Everyone does that.  Seriously, my kids aren't allowed to have blankets at all - I don't care if they're still in the maternity ward.  "Nurse, get that fucking fingerbang-masking cloth off of my child!" &gt;fingerbang-masking cloth

Have two sons, will use this in about 40 years when they're allowed to date.  Oh, mom! One day you'll actually *want* me to move out!

*cue laugh track* I tel you this from experience. I have no clue how to this day, but my mom somehow found out i was sexually active. She didnt say anything. She just came home one day with a giant bag of condoms and told me to be safe. Weirdest. Feeling. Ever.  It's this exact scenario that makes me so thankful I have sons instead of daughters, though. Could you imagine the alternative?

*Walks through daughters bedroom door, silently throws a few boxes of diaphragms and spermicidal lube on her bed*...

&gt;"You know what to do. Don't fuck up, Marsha."
 Marsha, Marsha, Marsha!

**DAMMIT MARSHA!!** Dude...they knew. He never said they *didn't* know... &gt; Luckily she kept a really clean shop, so smell wasn't an issue. 

Presumably she was *quiet* too That was part of the dangerous fun. Dad was a gun owner too. Why am I experiencing deja vu? Did I finger bang you too?  This made me lose my concentration mid-sentence at work.  Please tell me you are married now. He seems to be some kind of dad. 'Some kind' of dad.  

I can hear you, you know. He married the dad? [deleted] If this is a bot then I like this bot.  [deleted]  If you don't, for example [deleted] He didn't fall for it, it was just too nice a day for a killing.

 Seriously,  this is a sign of a kind father. My father in law is the same way. He is aware that you know you've fucked up, so he'll give you till strike 3 before the hammer drops. Then you can't touch this? That's not how the song goes ... He smiled because it was a clever cover, not because he was fooled. 

Does OP think dad didn't know what went on when he left his daughter and her boyfriend alone at night? "Thanks, kid, for coming up with something I could at least pretend to believe."

 I'm sure that has happened between me and my parents more than I'll ever know.  Am I the only one who believes he bought it because it was 5:30 in the morning? You could tell me you were from the planet Dildo and needed to borrow 3 cups of fire ants and I'd believe it if it was 5:30 in the morning. I'm hoping he followed up with very specific questions about the "fishing trip" the next time he saw OP.    
Where'd you go?    
Who'd you go with?    
What did you catch?    
What kind of bait did you use?     
Any tips for me as I haven't caught anything lately? Want to go some time?   
Etc...

Cause if you can't fuck with your daughter's BF, who can you fuck with? Her mother This. Why ruin fishing day?  My now wife and I did this once, and I still get grief for it.

Basically she was my gf at the time and liked to hang out at my place a lot (her mother was horrible, so understandable). We were not yet actually having sex, but she would often fall asleep on my bed while I did homework (college) or played video games or something. I would kick her out around 1am and send her home, this happened almost daily for weeks. Problem is she was 17 still, and I was 19 at the time, so kicking her out was very important (where i live she was still below the legal age of consent, and not only could I get charged with statutory rape, but my Dad could get in trouble for allowing it).

Anyway, one morning I wake up at about 6am and realize I had fallen asleep in my computer chair. It dawns on me and I quickly spin around to see my lovely gf still fast asleep in my bed. I panic, her Mom is a nasty person and is more than likely calling the police by this point or sending out search parties. There is a very real likelihood this women would happily send me to prison (even though I actually did nothing).

I wake her up, she starts to panic as well. Just about this time there is a tap on the bedroom window. It's my gf's best friend and her boyfriend and they also had the same problem (though I'm pretty sure they had in fact knowingly done so). We quickly hash out a plan to say that both girls were staying at another friends house, and call her to make sure she would back up this story. She will, and her mom also agrees (I have NO idea why, I didn't know this person myself). Anyway, everything is sorted out, I just need to get her out of the house, problem solved. The other couple leave.

About 20 minutes later we climb out the window, I start to say goodbye and I look just to my right to see my Dad sitting on the ground doing some early morning gardening only 15 feet from my window. He looks at me, looks at her, and gives me a look of "I'm not an idiot" like only a Dad can give. Anyway, to this day he still won't believe me that nothing happened and it was an accident. I've explained that I have zero reason to lie about at this point, we are married and have two kids, but he still goes "uh huh...". Her Mom never found out though.  Haha I used to sneak my gf through a window in my basement room. One morning my dad came downstairs and she had slept through the night. I threw blankets over her and he just gave me that same grin and said "Good morning! Your mother will be up soon so you might want to get the shower or something. " my dad and I never talked like this so it was a good indicator he was being good guy Greg.  Pretty much the same as me at age 15, one weekend my parents were out and I had my girlfriend stay over. Little did I know my grandparents would come visit at 9am to check on me. Woke up by the sound of them coming in through the front door, so I threw my bed sheets over her just at they barged into my bedroom door. Both of them came in and had a normal conversation with me for a good couple of minutes. Looking back, I should have realised, as my grandpa had this stupid grin on his face, but they left, and I thought I was in the clear. Turned around and realised I'd pretty much missed the majority of her, with her hair, and her legs, fully exposed out of the covers.

My girlfriend was asleep during the whole thing, and still doesn't know about it today. Grandparents still bring it up at every possible chance. Champ gparents FTW Champ gramps I can't wait until I'm a father so I can be that dad who gives my kids soooo much shit for this, but still backs them up to other parents. TL;DR Girlfriend slept over, dad was cool with it because he thought his son was getting laid. Son wasn't getting laid. Oh, he wasn't cool with it at ALL. I got a major talking to after, even though I insisted nothing happen, he didn't believe me in the slightest. He didn't rat me out, but he was pissed. I was the dad in that situation, but the dad of the boy not the girl.  They were 14, fooling around on the living room couch and fell asleep.  I assume they were originally under a blanket, but it had fallen off in the night and they were butt naked, wrapped in each other's arms, and dead asleep.  When I saw them, my reaction was that the scene was anything but sexual- it was really quite beautiful.  Everyone should wake in their lover's arms, once and often.  
So then I yelled really loud and scared the bejeasus out of them.  
Edit: Changed "lovers' arms" to "lover's arms" - Not that there's anything wrong with that...  
Edit 2: Just to clarify, the young lady was face down sort of nestled in his arm with her head on his chest.  So all I saw was booty, and that for just a fraction of a second.  Besides, she'd been to our lake house at least a dozen times.  There's not much difference between pale white cheeks exposed to open air vs the same pale white cheeks in a bikini bottom.  And they were 14, so give it a break.  Plus I raised three daughters and one son (who was the youngest) in a house with a single bathroom.  One more 14 year old butt wasn't going to give me a coronary (or cause any arousal for that matter). My biggest concern when I think about future children is whether or not I'll be able to find the right words to yell in the moment I need them.  I'm assuming it'll be the right thing to say no matter what you actually holler. 

Such knowledge comes as part of the maternity package.  I love the O'Henry style twist ending. Lmao, i cant wait to be a father He didn't buy it.  [deleted] Agreed, he totally knew. The moment you were spotted, he knew. After that he's just deciding which question to ask will make you squirm in the most amusing way. So... where you gonna go fishing? Parents are not that stupid. He didn't buy it, but he let OP off the hook  Heh. Hook. I don't believe for a second that he bought that excuse. He just literally did not give a fuck. Probably easier to just ignore it than open up that can of worms.  Don't want em dryin up before you get to the lake I don't know, all fishers know you should start early morning. Maybe dad thought he was hardcore and was impressed. I'm not quite following, thinking he was hardcore for starting fishing as late as 5:30? Right? 530... Sun is already coming up here. You best have a spot an hour before 'rise He didn't say the conversation happened today. He said years ago. Could have easily been a day the sun rose at 7 am. Maybe he was going ice fishing in the winter and the sun was rising at 9 a.m. Impressively early, my boy! Its not the fishing/time part that ruins it though. Its the part where he says he's "dropping by their house" **at 5:30AM** to.....*say hello to his daughter first?*

Riiiiiiiiight. (english not my native language. please be kind)
dad here.
one morning i came down the stairs, seeing this exact scene
my 17 jr old with a young man. asleep after what must have been a night of 'hard labour'. 
i very quietly made breakfast, went back upstairs and told my wife, son and other (youngest) daughter to be very quiet because people where still asleep. our dinner table is on the other side of the room,  about 20 feet from the couch but right in front of it. 
we all sat down and i yelled "YOUNG MAN" never ever i've seen someone wake up and move from horizontal to vertical  that fast. "breakfast is ready!" i said with a tone as if i gladly would suck his soul out of his body. through his left ear. i pulled out the chair beside me. "sit!"
my family silent. staring at their plates. not even twitching.

it must have been the hardest 20 feet for a but naked youngster to cross. trying to hide his, i must say, rather impressive morning wood.
my youngest daughter looking in awe at said piece of wood. as did my wife. 
after he put on his clothes, which lay beside the dinner table, he sat down. 
my son (6.4') patted him on the shoulder looked him in the eyes, sighed and shook his head.
by now he was realy, realy nervous. you could almost smell it.
in my best russian accent: "my friend, i'm going ask you a question. the answer you give is very important....for you..."
at this point he was sweating. "do you like cats?"

he was a very likeable and friendly guy. clearly uneducated but not dumb. there was something odd about him.
my daughter assured me he was a very nice and attentive guy. she knew him for about a month by then.
he came by every day since that morning. never stayed over at night though.

every morning he came to pick her up for school on his bicycle, brought her home after, made sure she did her homework. looked after her when she was sick and we were at work. he took care. invested time end effort. he had the patience of an angel when she had one of her terrible moods.

he said he had no family, no education, no steady job.
she adores him. he adores her. who am i to prevent her from learning from her own mistakes.

after this had been going on for about 8 months my son came to me. he had been asking around about him. turns out the guy was homeless. his abusive father killed himself. his mother, a crack whore took of 3 weeks after that. they lived in a rented trailer (yes. white trailer trash). he was 15 then and survived for 3 year on the streets. sleeping in parks, at the salvation army, with "friends", cheap ass hotels. working construction jobs now and then when my daughter met him on her riding school, shoveling shit. he's a good looking guy and, well, you know...17 year old female...raging hormones....

now. there i was. i knew a young man 18 or 19 years old. who was polite, who comes in smiling. who leaves smiling. who cares. who helps, no need to ask.
who makes my child happy. a kid who had never had a chance to be a kid. a mainly absent manic depressive suicidal as a dad a crack whore as a mum.
sometimes fed by neighbours mostly going hungry.

sometimes when he does not come over because he has a job we miss him. they are not buddies but my son gets along with him very well. my youngest daughter trusts him unconditionally and my wife's motherly instinct seems to have expanded. and me? i sometimes worry for him. i want him to be happy.

i told my wife and youngest what i learned about him. they cried. i had a hard time telling. i was disappointed in my oldest daughter. she knew. she should have told us. she loves him and lets him leave every night to go....were???? (heartless biatch)
 
the next day i gave him a key of our house. i told him i expected him home every night. home.
in the next weeks we fixed our spare room and took him shopping for furniture. 
he was quite good in making things. he wanted to be his own boss, he liked building things.
we saw to it that he got an education which enabled him to do just that.

that was in 2000. now 15 years later.
my found son and my daughter have thriving business. they gave use 3 beautiful grandchildren last year. twins. 1 girl, 1 boy this is the greatest thing i'll read all week Sounds better reading it with a Russian accent 
 It seems like if everything is better in a russian accent So wake me up!

https://youtu.be/SVjwkOBUV-w I'm not sure this could be MORE relevant. :P Can confirm.  Week? You read great things more often than I do.  3x gold. whoaaaa.

thank you wonderful redittors Thank you for this great story. I'm dying to know ... Does he like Cats? yes. so i gave him a kitten the next spring.
 OMG yes yessssssss there is a glimmer of hope left in this world. Take care and cheers for being a great person!  Finally someone asks the important question putin tears in my eyes. "Heartless biatch" kek Suka Cyka.  . &gt; in my best russian accent: "my friend, i'm going ask you a question. the answer you give is very important....for you..." at this point he was sweating. "do you like cats?"

Does he like cats? [deleted] yes my very first comment i ever gave on the internets ---&gt; GOLD
thank you kind stranger, thank you.
 Damn I was almost certain that was gonna be a tree fiddy. i read it all in a russian accent.  Such is life. TIL I have a Russian reading inner-monologue.  I was waiting for it. It was the best setup. Then the end?

http://imgur.com/CBpvzIp I was reading and thinking "mother fucker better not drop a tree fiddy on me" The long con This made my heart get warm.

 &gt; she loves him and lets him leave every night to go....were???? (heartless biatch)
 
Omg...my sides  in soviet russia, family makes YOU!
 Is your youngest daughter still available? Because I want you to be my in-law. ;) she is 30 by now. she is married. to a stunning black eyed, black haired tall woman with the most beautiful golden-brown skin you can imagine. who is pregant by the way. my wife and i are looking forward to our 3rd grandchild. You are an amazing man and father. Thank you for this. Navsegda.  so she is a lesbian?  just clarifying she has had boyfriends. and then she met her. it was at a rammstein concert. i saw it happen. just like in the books. i saw how my daughter looked at her. it was in that moment that i knew. she did not. yet. but i did. i could taste it on the tip of my tongue. i also saw the other girl looking back. smiling. then we got lost in the crowd. i noticed my daughter scanning the crowd with no result. it was when we went for a coke that i saw the girl. so, i went to her and told her that there was someone who wanted to meet her. before she could tell me to go fuck myself i introduced her to my daughter. the rest is history.
 You... are the kind of father I want to be one day. Thank you. Can I hire you to write all my comments? Your stories and heart are amazing, but your sense of humor is what makes them such a great read. You are awesome. Really awesome. As a chick whose relationship with her family basically fell apart into shambles upon coming out, and who still is pretty much unaccepted nearly fifteen years later, every kid needs a dad like you.  sounds like you are a romantic yourself, and see the joy your children are experiencing falling in love.  what a wonderful gift to give them.

because as you get old, wouldn't you give it all up just to have one more day as a hopelessly in love teenager?  i know i would. My Dad always said he knew that my wife was the one before I did, he said he could see it in my eyes when I talked about her.  Funny the instincts we develop as parents.  Way to be a great Dad sir! Well, I'm guessing the boyfriends she had didn't ever live up to that rather impressive morning wood she was exposed to in her youth... At a Rammstein concert, nonetheless! Too cool :-). You're a good man. you're an awesome man! holy fuck... Man... I hope to be a tenth of the father you are with your girls for my sons.

Congrats on the parenting! only if you are a woman :) What's the gender of your third grandchild? It doesn't matter but the fact that it's left out bugs me. we wil know as it pops out.
it's a surprise &gt;who am i to prevent her from learning from her own mistakes.

as a dad of three, here's a line i don't hear nearly enough of my peers say with any regularity. That was fucking BEAUTIFUL. I thought someone was going to turn out to be a loch ness monster. Instead my heart grew three sizes.  I'm a bot, *bleep*, *bloop*. Someone has linked to this thread from another place on reddit:

- [/r/baww] [A Russian chap gives us all a lesson in humanity and parenting... (x-post r/bestof)](https://np.reddit.com/r/baww/comments/3ave3t/a_russian_chap_gives_us_all_a_lesson_in_humanity/)

- [/r/beautifulreddit] [/u/PeekOut shares the story of the time he found a naked boy in his living room](https://np.reddit.com/r/beautifulreddit/comments/3awfv3/upeekout_shares_the_story_of_the_time_he_found_a/)

- [/r/bestof] [A Russian chap gives us all a lesson in humanity and parenting...](https://np.reddit.com/r/bestof/comments/3at886/a_russian_chap_gives_us_all_a_lesson_in_humanity/)

- [/r/goodlongposts] [/u/PeekOut responds to: TIFU by falling asleep with my girlfriend on her parent's living room couch. \[+74\]](https://np.reddit.com/r/goodlongposts/comments/3asfv9/upeekout_responds_to_tifu_by_falling_asleep_with/)

[](#footer)*^(If you follow any of the above links, please respect the rules of reddit and don't vote in the other threads.) ^\([Info](/r/TotesMessenger/wiki/) ^/ ^[Contact](/message/compose/?to=\/r\/TotesMessenger))*

[](#bot) I thought this was gonna be the russian streetlamp and the kid was gonna grow up to be putin I read this in a russian accent. 11/10 would do it again God damn onions. &gt;my youngest daughter looking in awe at said piece of wood. as did my wife.

I gave you my upvote by that point already. A shame I didn't have any left for the rest of the story. damn... I'm not half the man you are. 

I wish I could do the same for my daughter. 
 you can and you will when the moment comes.
be there for her. not always because they have to learn for themselves but when she has really fucked up.  But...does he like cats? "heartless biatch" Your English is just fine.  thank you. (and goolgle translate) \&gt; goolgle well obviously he can't google translate "google". It will break the system and create a black hole. With all due respect John, I am the head of IT and I have it on good authority. If you type Google into Google, you can break the Internet. So please, no one try it, even for a joke. Its not a laughing matter. You can break the Internet. Growing up in an extremely conservative household, I only hope I'm openminded enough for my children to see through situations like this..I dont think i could help but freak out and go apeshit if I saw my daughter like that. But still I have respect for what you did. i had a slightly difficult start myself. (catholic school. yes! those catholic schools...) 

i always tought my children that sexuality is one  humankinds most important things. no sex = no life. do not commit yourself to one single person without having had different sexual relations. why? you have to explore you sexuality. you have to find out what you like andwhat not. you need to know what you like from your partner. it's the only way to find a parner who is sexualy compatible. and, very important, is does not matter if your partner is the same gender. not to me. not to your mother nor those who call themselves your friends. one thing only is important: your happiness. Damn dude, mad props for being extremely open minded about life and your children.  You seem like you would be an amazing parent to have.  You actually remind me of my dad.  He is a very traditional guy, doesn't smoke or drink, yet he is very open minded about all of his children's choices in life.  Those qualities make for the best parents and it looks like you are one of those parents. &gt; they gave use 3 beautiful grandchildren last year. twins. 1 girl, 1 boy

No love for the other child?? He said the third one isn't out yet. Coming to a hospital near you... Damn that was beautiful. I also love how you described your daughter when you found out that she was letting him leave every night haha One time in high school my girlfriend snuck into my place late at night and slept in my bed. She was supposed to leave early in the morning so that nobody would know she was ever there. We both fell asleep just like in your story and I woke up right around the time I normally would to get ready for school. I told her she better get dressed and leave before she was discovered. She got up and was putting her shirt on near the door on the opposite end of the room. My mom opened the door and she quietly walked behind it while it was opening. My mom says "kickaguard you're going to be late, do you want to jump in the shower first or do you think you'll have time if I do?" I say "no, it's fine. You go ahead." she closes the door and my girl is standing there with her shirt half on over her head. She waits until I start laughing before she starts laughing too. My mom gets in the shower and she sneaks out.

I realize my mom finding a girl in her boys house is nowhere near as bad as your girlfriends dad finding you in their house, but your story reminded me of it for sure. Your girlfriends dad buying the story that you just came by to see her is just as ridiculous as my mom opening the door right when my girlfriend got out of view behind the door. Hahah, great story! Did you ever tell her afterwards? her and my mom ended up being good friends while we dated. i'm sure she told her. they were such good friends that my mom grounded when she found out the girl broke up with me. Hahah you got grounded for getting dumped? Nice. yeah. she was like, "that wonderful, sweet girl dumped you?! you're not going out with your friends for a week!"

which was kind of fitting because i was dumped for spending too much time with my friends and not enough with the girl. fuck that noise though, it's was high school. When I was in high school my gf and I would often go up to her room to fool around and just lay with each other. I usually left around 3 am and it was no big deal. Well one night I fell asleep and woke up at 7 am. I heard her sister leave for work that morning. It was terrifying. I snuck out sneaky as fuck and went home... To find my mother sitting and staring at the front door. That was a horrifying conversation... "It's true, smell my fingers!" Had this same thing happen, except dad came downstairs around 1 AM and woke us up.  There was yelling and running.  After a tense half day, I manned up and went to talk to Dad.  He was super cool about it, all ended well. Still, 2/10, do not recommend.  Reminds me of a similar situation I found myself in, years ago sitting on the sofa downstairs with my gf at the time, she was sitting on my lap and I'd just put both my hands up her shirt as her dad walks in and goes "what are you doing"? I said, well, to be honest, tryin to cop a feel, and he says okay stand up you're going to have to fight me, he seemed serious and was much bigger than myself, feeling there was no other option I stood up and said "okay" put my fists up, than he just laughs and it was all good. Dude. You should make this into your own TIFU post. I thought it was really funny.  Be forewarned though: You may get an extraordinary number of emails from people saying it wasn't a true fuck-up because it ended happily and the dad didn't slit your throat with a bayonet.  I find it funny that teens think adults are idiots and naive to scams, schemes, etc.  Hey, they were teens too and pulled the same stunts, and now, they've added 20+ years of experience in dealing with scammers.  They know.  They mmight just deny it to themselves so they could avoid killing someone, but they know.  Some kid is going to pull that on you when you're older.  Depending on your mood, you might let them slide too. I used to do that, put spray on and walk in the door. My parents knew I was smoking cigarettes and weed but I didn't realise to afterwards a high teenager stinking of spray is damn obvious Where's the fuck up here? Well, in my world anyway, you shouldn't fall asleep on your gf's parent's couch until the next morning with half your clothes off.

Edit: For additional clarification-this was in high school. In my generation, boyfriends &amp; girlfriends did not sleep over at each other's houses. (I wish!) This may not be a big deal where you are from, but I was horrified to wake up at my girlfriend's house half-nude the next morning. I should not have been there.  That was the fuck-up.   "She wanted to give me fishing tips but when I came she was asleep and she looked naked so I just patted her on the head. What a nice young lady you have, sir. Have a swell day." I think what people mean is you got off scott-free. This is a success story, ie: "Hey guys, I once had sex" Well, I luckily turned it into a success, but I still fucked up by accidentally falling asleep until the morning.  To the best of my knowledge, there is nothing in the subreddit's rules and regulations that states you cannot rebound from your fuck-up.  I'll write another version where the father ends up filling my ass with buckshot to satisfy those that are clamouring for my blood. Nice please update. Don't break your promise op! I'm looking forward to the updated fuck up with your ass filled. I can only imagine that this is an exciting story, because I've seen US movies such as american pie and the like...

I grew up in Germany for the most part. Its quite common here to have mixed sleepovers as kids, and it doesn't just change to being forbidden when you hit your teens/puberty.

These sleepovers were supervised when we were small kids. But on birthdays we'd camp in the birthday kids garden for example. And parents would leave us alone after bedtime. Nothing more than some kisses happened there most of them as a dare in truth or dare....

Then in our teens this quickly turned into unsupervised sleepovers. We'd sneek out to smoke and drink sometimes and mess around most times.

Some of the girls mothers were stricter ofcourse at that age. Me being a guy and having a VERY liberal mother never had any restrictions, when to come home, where and with whom to spend the night, or bring home. 

She usually invited girls that stayed over to have breakfast with us.

Now, hearing all this you might think I was overly sexually active all that time. But actually no... Despite having girlfriends my teen years, I didn't actually have sex until I was 20, which around here is rather late.

Isn't it rediculous how parents in many societies handle these things? Growing up, school, dating, sex is all complicated enough, without them. Sexual education is important. Don't make it a taboo... The thing that gets me about these TIFUs is that the parent always seems to know the poster's reddit username I'm pretty sure he didn't buy it, he just remembers what it is like to be young and in love.  Kangar walks out, closing the door behind him.

Kangar: "Hook, line, and sinker."

Kangar stares off to the horizon at the just-rising sun. 

Kangar puts on sunglasses. 

*The who's "Won't get Fooled Again" plays in the background* Everyone is complaining that this didnt happen today. What is rule 1a everybody? [deleted] &gt; His father laughed for a number of years the host of his mother, Susan, said to me.

That's... slightly unnerving.

 I have made this mistake (i'm male) twice in my parents house.

Very strict, conservative house with a temper tantrum throwing father.

First time sis had a mutual friend spend the night (we weren't ever interested in each other).  We all stayed up late watching movies.   Me and her fell asleep on opposite ends of the same cough in the middle of the movie.

I was woken up by being thrown across the room.


Graduated college and lived at home for 6 months before getting an apartment.    Had a girlfriend spend the night (with their approval).  We come in late from a bar... i set her up in my bedroom, she's under the covers and i'm over them.  I was going to sleep downstairs.

Well i cuddled... while we were watching something and i fell asleep.

At 5:30am when my dad woke - there was lots of yelling, screaming, accusations of her being a whore, and all kinds of fun shit.

 Your parents were jerks with anger issues. You GRADUATED college and still let your father treat you like that? You're basically a grown man at that point. I could understand you wanting to have respect for your elders but after a certain point you gotta just tell him to fuck right the fuck off. yeah well... i was like 2 weeks into my first "real job" and kinda needed their roof over my head until i could get up on my own. can't believe he fell for your carp story Similar story:

I was about 19 or 20 at the time and my rich buddy had a rager house party four nights in a row at his waterfront, three-story, castle style mansion while his parents were out of the country. Multiple games of beer pong going on for hours amongst the kitchen counter tops, flip cup with top shelf liquor, 55 gallon trash cans full of bottles, lot's babes everywhere, easily a 2 to 1 guy to girl ratio, it was at every definition a house party. The morning after the first night at about 6:00am, I was straight passed out on the floor of the kitchen leaning against the six food wide Sub-zero refrigerator when the family related cleaning lady knocked on the garage door and yelling wondering if anybody was home as she see's multiple cars in the driveway and scattered down the street. I stumble to my feet as I see here walking in and she is looking all around at the mess that was left behind from just a few hours before and my excuse for being there at the time was that I had just gotten there to go fishing with my buddy, the house owner, and I had fallen asleep waiting for him to come down stairs and that I was just as amazed at the mess as she was, "oow'ing and aw'ing" with her. I wasn't sober enough at the time to wonder if she really bought my story but I do know where were two additional nights of repeat-ragers. Similar situation for me and GF in highschool, except it was on her bed. Her mom came in her room, around the bed and knelt right in front of us spooning and groping to discuss some completely unrelated topic like nothing was going on. Worked like a stealth charm, moment was nuked. Amazing that her Mom kept her cool like that. Getting caught by the girl's parents is almost always worse. LOL, great story. So are you guys still dating? Surprised to see this question this low.  
Yeah, OP, are you still together?? My older brother went out to a party Friday night with his girlfriend, came home around midnight, and brought over both his girlfriend and her younger brother. They've banged multiple times at my house, and the only thing between them and me is my older brother's door. And my grandmother is seemingly okay with this, despite being a devout Lutheran. Your older brother is a pretty interesting fellow to bang his girlfriends younger brother while you're in the closet.  This belongs on the front page... AS A CAUTIONARY TALE FOR FATHERS WITH DAUGHTERS! Found the dad 3 more months before my baby girl comes. I am putting this in my vault.  "Oh hi Mr. Jones, I was just going fishing... in your daughters pants."
 How was the fishing? Nonexistent.  He may not have fallen for it, he may have just let you think that... When I was a teenager, (long story short) I was woken up after a sleepover with a friend of mine by my parents coming down to see us sleeping with 2 piles of vomit in the room.  It was like our second time drinking ever and we had drank over a full bottle of rum.

We had had some pizza (with breadsticks and cheese sauce) the night before, and my dad goes over, sniffs the cheese, and says "Oh, that's rancid- that must have been it."  I was like, "Yeah!  The cheese!  Absolutely...!"

A few years later I thought it and it dawned on me that there's absolutely no way they were that naive.  You don't vomit from rancid food and just fall asleep with it on the floor next to you. Yeah I think he was just being cool about it.  There's no hard-and-fast rule that a dad has to take an abstinence-only stance and get all protective against boyfriends. Plus joke: you live in Arizona, and it's summer. The nearest decent lake is a state away. Can't believe he took the bait.  Took your daughter to pound town, now I'm out.  Rule 1a does not talk about Jesus You need to leave the house at 4:30am to get the trout, not weird at all mate.

Or leave the house at 2am to catch the hybrid runs. or leave the house at 3pm the previous day to catch a whale. So you guys are still together?
 You underestimate the old man. He knew. For what it's worth, you supplied that bus driver with a pretty palatable transit tale.  A transit tale of a most unparalleled palatability! Not quite the level of bus knight 
Edit: didn't think to link. sorry m80s. Story was so good I thought everyone knew it. Still no excuse for not linking but my good friend below me has posted a link... [Link to The Bus Knight, for those wondering.](https://www.reddit.com/comments/xbfwb/the_bus_knight/) Why mammals survived the dinosaurs.  yeah, those dolphins are crafty sons-of-bitches. I just learned a thing so now you have to know a thing! I'm going to ruin your joke. [This is what a dolphin looked like after the dinosaurs went kaputz.](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pakicetus) 

So crafty, they looked just like everyone else. Fuck dolphins. #####&amp;#009;

######&amp;#009;

####&amp;#009;
 [**Pakicetus**](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pakicetus): [](#sfw) 

---

&gt;

&gt;___Pakicetus___, which is an extinct genus of amphibious [cetacean](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cetacea) of the [family](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Family_(biology\)) [Pakicetidae](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pakicetidae), was endemic to the [Eocene](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Eocene) of [Pakistan](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pakistan).  The vast majority of paleontologists regard it as the most basal [whale](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Whale).

&gt;====

&gt;[**Image**](https://i.imgur.com/MMg0MWm.jpg) [^(i)](https://commons.wikimedia.org/wiki/File:Pakicetus_Canada.jpg)

---

^Interesting: [^Pakicetidae](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pakicetidae) ^| [^Kenyapotamus](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kenyapotamus) ^| [^Nalacetus](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nalacetus) ^| [^Archaeoceti](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Archaeoceti) 

^Parent ^commenter ^can [^toggle ^NSFW](/message/compose?to=autowikibot&amp;subject=AutoWikibot NSFW toggle&amp;message=%2Btoggle-nsfw+crvua7i) ^or[](#or) [^delete](/message/compose?to=autowikibot&amp;subject=AutoWikibot Deletion&amp;message=%2Bdelete+crvua7i)^. ^Will ^also ^delete ^on ^comment ^score ^of ^-1 ^or ^less. ^| [^(FAQs)](http://www.np.reddit.com/r/autowikibot/wiki/index) ^| [^Mods](http://www.np.reddit.com/r/autowikibot/comments/1x013o/for_moderators_switches_commands_and_css/) ^| [^Magic ^Words](http://www.np.reddit.com/r/autowikibot/comments/1ux484/ask_wikibot/) It is absolutely mind blowing to see how much evolution has happened before humans came around. How many generations of evolution it took to get a single celled organism out of the water into the pakicetus and then into a dolphin. Amazing.  I actually very recently read through the entire history of the Earth. from single cell 3.7-3.8 billion years ago to amphibians to reptiles to dinosaurs to birds. Or... amphibians to proto-mammals to mammals. So. Fucking. Fascinating. did you read this from a book or a website or something? I'm really interested in this I would like to do the same Looks like a dog. A weird rat-dog. Yeah. Crazy, huh? That was wonderful. Friend of mine did something like that. He and another friend were arguing over who got the last steak at a BBQ I was hosting. After a few friendly verbal bouts my friend says "Alright we'll wrestle for it, front lawn!" the two of them get up and as soon as my other friend is outside he closes the door and locks it and feasts on his reward. Holy moley, that was good Yea for sure, I am glad I read it.... read... it.... reddit.  Honestly reddit is latin for repeat.

Kind of like how I am now repeating the TIL post I  read on reddit. This is always a good repeat though.  &gt; a good reddit

FTFY I feel like the only way he could have done that so calm and cool is if he was some skilled confident martial artist. Which makes it even more admirable that he didn't destroy the guy That story was so good even links to it get mad up votes.  I just cracked up Yep &amp; I would've posted it even if no single imaginary Internet points would roll in. The comment above mine reminded me, I went to re-read it, it gave me a good laugh even after previously reading it. A true worthy share. This is even better than the Kevin link I shared the other day. Thank you :) thank you for the link, that made my day! 21 000+ upvotes! Holy shitballs!
 I've never seen Bus Knight.  This was one of the most beautiful things I've ever read.  Thank you! I love pals like you who always provide the link, for those of us that ARE always wondering, and out of the loop. Cool. Thanks .... Was wondering - not disappointed :)  That is absolutely awesome. I, too, want to cheer and hug somebody. 400 error. Mirror? You should try refreshing.  I had the same problem, but it turns out it was only loading some of the time.  It wasn't completely down, just spotty for some reason.
 [Bus knight] (http://i.imgur.com/rSnA8.png) this link worked fit me when the other one wouldn't. Thank you Broke link sad [Bus knight] (http://i.imgur.com/rSnA8.png) this link worked fit me when the other one wouldn't. [Bus knight] (http://i.imgur.com/rSnA8.png) this link worked fit me when the other one wouldn't. Indeed. [I think I know a publication that would enjoy such a tale.](http://i2.kym-cdn.com/photos/images/newsfeed/000/897/718/c5f.gif) /r/TalesFromTransport Damn, disappointed.  Why he would not just run by then stop and look at his phone or some shit, thats what I would have done.. start looking at cars like ur waiting for somebody lmao I picture you running like action man, with the most serious expression on your face run-jumping onto one of those old buses with poles whilst its moving. I also saw him parkouring over ledges and trash cans stoic faced Its the little things in life that get you. Like terminal viruses!   Ugh, thanks for reminding me, now I'm probably going to get another one  &gt; terminal viruses!

&gt; another one

[Another?](http://i.imgur.com/o0b22gA.gif)
 It's a virus that you get at an airport Or a computer virus. That's a XTerm virus Just take it to the doctor, it'll be fine You have to put it on ice, though, otherwise they might not be able to reattach it.  Terminal doesn't necessarily mean deadly, it just means you have it for life.  Type 1 diabetes is a terminal illness, but you can live comfortably for decades with it.

Source:  I have terminal diabetes Yeah! Diabetes high-five! Yup. Something like Lyme Disease is a terminal virus. Or Hep C. 

You can get plenty of 'em before you die if you timed it correctly.  Well that escalated quickly. Bus terminal viruses are much worse than the airport terminal ones If everybody just have a smidge of compassion like this guy, the world would be a better place. You did what every good person should do in that situation

Kudos for not making it as awkward as some others would've Unless the little person in question reads /r/tifu.  Touche Liz Lemon? [Did you just touch my head?](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=t3VKxB1Nt6I) Well, I had to do something to get your attention. 'Well you got it'

Burned in the most epic, casual and self assured way. Fuck I'd love to have Peter Dinklage level of game. Smooth OP, smooth. I would have liked to read that you picked her up and at that moment it hit you. Give her the "you're not my wife. So sorry" That was the best possible outcome in this particular TIFU That was the best possible outcome in ANY TIFU! upvote! The brightest timeline. I once was waiting for a taxi outside a concert. This little girl comes into the queue behind me. I was shocked, she was surely about 12 and was waiting for a taxi by herself at 12:00am. I started talking to her to check and asked how old she was. She replied 26. I was so embarrassed, but thankfully I don't think she realised what I had thought. That was mighty big of you. That wasn't even funny. Stop being so small-minded. A noble spirit enbiggens the smallest man Something something midgets.  Yes, a Lannister always pays his debts. Otto, there's a gremlin on the side of the bus! A perfectly cromulent saying! I think you're shortchanging him here. It was a tiny bit funny. We look down on that sort of humor around here. Stop with the short jokes and just be the bigger man. "Excuse me miss, Can you spare me some change for the bus? I'm a little short!" Cheque, carriageway, ahhhh I feel as though I've been whisked away to foggy London town. lol! what a seinfeld scenario Except George would have paid the bus fare and spent the rest of the episode trying to get a refund. Jerry, I just saw your girlfriend making out with your uncle Leo! I share your short-sighted pain. I once very nearly offered assistance to a very heavily pregnant woman waiting out on the street at night. I was worried she was in  labour and needed a ride to hospital. I got close enough to realise it was a very short, very fat, bald Japanese man. That bus driver was awesome. When I don't wear lenses or my glasses, which isn't often, and I come across someone I know, they expect me to wave or something. Then it's awkward because I didn't. But when I do wave, it's awkward because I'm waving at a person I don't know. I hate these moments. Well you were partly right there was a kid there
 Why are people giving you shit for not wearing contacts? It's not like you were driving. For what it's worth, apparently this sort of thing happens to little people often. Not that it makes it any less mortifying but you are not the first person to make this mistake! Dwarves arent real. Op is a liar. This is not the lord of the rings. My favourite TIFU so far, mostly for the fact you confided in the bus driver. How shortsighted of you. If only people on sitcoms and movies would be this upfront and just admit they were wrong. hahahaha, that bus driver was chill as fuck, good story All jokes aside (I haven't read all the comments, just the current top ones), you were at least doing what you thought was right. That whole "it takes a village" thing, after all.

Sure, ya done fucked up, but better to fuck up in this embarrassing way than to assume the opposite and witness some kids get creamed by a passing car that didn't see them step out in front of a bus... You're one of the Mr. Magoo Good Guys (ok, couldn't resist that)! At least you did the right thing man, because if that was a child, they could have been in trouble. OP You are awesome. I saw the title and I said out loud" Aw man, it was a midget, wasn't it?"


Edit: people have their loincloths up in a bunch over my use of the word 'midget', I didn't mean it to be cruel or unkind. Just the way we talk where I come from. Just remember, in an alternate universe there's someone who saved two kids today.

There's also someone who posted "TIFU by not wearing contacts and letting two kids get killed by a car".

Multiverses are fun. "TIFU by assuming all children were adult dwarfs and now I'm on a list" oh man, when I read this title I feared the outcome might have been a lot worse than it was Why. Did. You. Feel. The. Need. To. Put. The. Image. Of. Child. Pancakes.

IN MY MIND?! ;_; [Om nom pancakes](https://zooplauk.files.wordpress.com/2014/03/pancakes_child.jpg?w=455&amp;h=643) Risky click of the day? It checks out. It can be very difficult to take action in an ambiguous situation, but taking action is the first step in becoming a hero. In my estimation you did a great thing and should be proud of yourself.  OP has my sword! AND MY AXE! Wow OP is a pretty good thief  Because dwarves, right? Right. I'm 6'3 though so a dwarf I ain't. And is there not a bot that says that? And my bow! Bus driver to the rescue Good thing the midget didn't run into traffic in fear as a giant ran towards her squinting.  Being a good guy isn't one of your, "short" comings This is delightfully British bollocks mate wanker dabbledee do, brilliant good sir. I MUST DEPART I HAVE A QUEST Sounds like a [Mentos commercial](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Cw-tceWOL8c). This wouldnt happen with any bus driver I know, they'd tell me to f**k off Hey, at least you tried. Too many people would have just let it happen.  I saw the title, looked at the subreddit and thought "Midgets." 

Called it.
  I can picture Andy from Parks and Rec doing this. Don't worry, I have prescription glasses that I do not wear unless I'm going somewhere important, such as court or school.

Those fuckers were 600$, I'm not going to fucking ruin them. y u no TL;DR? Sometimes it's about enjoying the *little* things in life  General life rule:  never help children.

Sucks, but it's the world we now live in. why would you not use contacts/glasses?  If I'm not going anywhere where I've got to observe things at a distance I don't need them. I only wear them for lectures, etc  Optician here. This drives me nuts! I occasionally come across patients who say they only wear their glasses when they "need to be able to see". Um, that would be *all the time you're awake*, then. If you're short-sighted and the world beyond 10m looks like Photoshop blur, you're making your visual system work hard to decode everything, leading to sthenopia, headaches and visual stress - not to mention the risk of scenarios like the one described in the post! With some I know it's vanity, but contact lens patients? Really? You think it's OK that most of the world is a blur and your sight is so bad you couldn't legally drive a car? What is this, the 18th century?! Your most vital sense doesn't work properly and you've been prescribed just the thing to fix it!! WEAR YOUR DAMN' GLASSES!!!

PS I know OP said his lenses cost money. I know not everyone in the world can afford good eyecare. I happen to be ranting from a British/NHS perspective where free glasses are available to the less well-off. &gt;[I didn't know what to do so I just carried on sprinting and hopped on the bus.](https://youtu.be/QYKInSN6CQA) If this were the US the bus driver would have booted you off After deliberately repeating what you told them in a loud enough voice for the woman to hear.  Not to be mean, just confused and with absolutely no shit given about your predicament.
 Short but funny story, you're lucky the bus driver saved you! It was only a small mistake.  Did this happen in Bruges? Just "a little" fuck up :-) great story! I love midget stories! nice, I applaud your will to act. The outcome wasn't near what you expected but thats a happy ending.  don't feel bad.  Your heart was in  the right place. Hey man, good for you, anyways. Good for the driver, too.  Good save though! Its not everyday you see saves on here..  The road to hell is paved with good intentions. What's rough is working at some ticket-selling place. I worked at a movie theater selling tickets and almost didn't catch myself when selling tickets to a guy and someone too short to see over the counter. "Two tickets to Iron Man." "Okay, one adult and one--" looking over the counter to the kid, who is actually a grown dwarf man, "and... two adults. Okay." Although maybe I should have offered to sell him a kid's ticket, since they're like $2-3 cheaper. I don't know. How much is dignity worth? Handled it like a boss. Little People should wear ~~hats~~flags. Unless they are child little-people, of course. At least OP didn't throw the dwarf 

 Credit to OP, as I am not nearly quick enough on my literary feet to adequately and not-awkwardly explain the bizarre situation that just transpired to where he would immediately understand what happened. Buss Driver is the real MVP Bus Driver...Like A Boss Well don't be to hard on yourself because had they been children you could have made a difference in their life! A for Effort! Plot twist: he dropped you off in front of .. At first glance, I read the title as "by attempting to SHAVE two small children".  Glad that wasn't the true title. I love how you confessed to the driver.. Life can be adorable and simple at times. omg hahahahahaha, I love the foresight you had though, to just hop on the bus like that was your plan all along. Thanks for the morning laugh - glad the driver was a good sport about it  As a man at 36 with 20/20 vision, I cannot relate to your story. See what I did there? Good on you! Most people can't tell the difference between Dwarven men and women, which has given rise to the belief that there are no dwarf women, and dwarves simple pop out of holes in the ground! Well that brought a smile to my face. That was sweet of everyone involved, including you. It's nice to read a TIFU that ends on a positive note. Good story but i saw it coming from a mile away He didn't  *Puts on sunglasses*  FYI "short sighted" is a failure to plan ahead. "Near sighted" is a vision deficiency. I see this a lot around here. You're a good person, OP Badass driver Thought that counts right!
 I thought they went by "little people" now I didn't know what to do so I just carried on sprinting and hopped on the bus.   haha! Seems reasonable  More of a cock up really, and we all do that from time to time. Well played! This story could have gone considerably worse had the the driver been unable to hear/understand the lowered voice. Hahah good story OP :)  At least you had good intentions!   didn't 30 Rock do this one already? good guy bus driver :D I would have just kept running past the bus down the street Wow, what an awesome driver! Are any of these TIFU stories ever real? Maybe by you randomly sprinting the dwarf and grandchild may have stopped crossing to look at you and consequently you saved their lives after all! I bet she she looks up to you. That's beautiful. Oops.  For what is worth I would have ended up doing the same myself..my eye sight is slightly worse than  yours and I still have to get glasses or contacts :-(. Besides I think you gave the bus driver a pretty good reason to save yourself a lot of embarrassment... Sounds like your vision is about the same as mine. Usually wear my glasses just in case I need them, but no real problem if I don't, except small print on the TV from across the room You're a hero without a cause, but still a hero.  Thumbs up to that bus driver.  fully expected this story to end with gore  Ok George Costanza I think they go by "little people" although I'm sure you get tons of props for not dropping "the 'M' bomb." When I read "what I thought were two small children" I instantly knew. TBH I thought he was going to grab them and then their mother a short ways away would assume he's kidnapping them. I liked your little tale, bit we need a sub for stuff like this where you absolutely did not fuck up in any way. You just mistook a small woman for a child. There were zero consequences. Whatever dude, you're the HERO in this story. You stepped up to help out what you thought were two children in danger. I think if you would have explained to the little people what you thought was going on they would be cool. That was a courageous move and took some guts and integrity, even if it didn't end up the way you thought it was going to. +6 bonus points. Lol. Cheque. nobody crosses a dwarf! I think you handled it really well!  Bro bus driver. 
 It's more like today you ALMOST f'ed up. Your quick and smooth thinking saved you. And the cool bus driver.  We will all see you on TLC in a few weeks on The Little Couple. That was some quick thinking! I would've pretended I was working out or that I thought the bank was about to close or some other dumb shit. Good save though. Laser Eye Surgery?  Affordable now and very very effective.  I've had perfect vision for 6 years now.
 I think I'm dying! I wish my eye sight were that "good" I probably would have finished off the job and picked them up. smooth exit, 10/10 would recommend  At least you didn't start dating her to keep up appearances. They already made that episode. You could've offered them assistance and explained you didn't have your contacts on, you know. They might've had a giggle about it too. In times of trouble.. hop on the bus :)

Honestly man, this story made my day, you are a god person This is the sort of story Roald Dahl could have written. Stop trying to one up Gimli! GG bus driver. Not a TIFU so much, as you were almost a hero. Just blind as a bat, as am I.   BUS KNIGHT!!! Whoa! Should've have just gone through with it. To dwarfs: Where are your parents??? Well that didn't get dark quickly, which is always nice on a Friday Eyeglass master race I recommend you some eye training ;) http://www.wikihow.com/Improve-Your-Eyesight When I read the first sentence it was like this
"I was walking to the bank with my woes!"
You no how dat shit go "Anybody in here?"

"Uh, no..." "Oh, ok" "Hey honey, I could have sworn the bathroom door was talking to me again..."
 Haha, I actually tried that in elementary school. I was taking a crap and someone knocked and said "Anybody in there"? To be funny I said, "No". The kid opened the door (there were no locks) and I yelled at him and he said with a straight face, "You said no".    Then he proceeded to shit all over your lap. Two dudes one throne? Dad: "What are you doing?"  
OP: "Got lost. Going out that way." *(points at stairs)*  
Dad: "This is MY basement. You're not supposed to be in my basement."  
OP: "Uhhhhhhhhhhhhhh...." *(slowly motorcycles the fuck out of basement)* [Reference,](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=u15gcCaNXLE&amp;feature=youtu.be&amp;t=11s)

And [Reference without the stupid timeskip.](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=u15gcCaNXLE&amp;feature=youtu.be&amp;t=) I'm guessing that was the front page post i didn't watch yesterday.

"uhhhhhhhhh" -puts away- hahahahaha For some reason that video has me in tears. "uhhhhhhh" hahah.  Metacycle  That's not what meta means. But it's still a wicked reference. https://youtu.be/kQ6y4AQjWWo?t=1m28s Haha, maybe he knows you're in there and he's just fucking with you. You know that's a likely possibility because if anything, he should have noticed the poopy-smelling bathroom. Hopefully not though, because she'll be in a whirlwind of trouble I think. Well that, and I'd be dead in a dumpster. Possibly. Maybe. Dude how could he not know? A door that was locked comes unlocked and the bathroom smells like shit? Unless he believes in magic and demons or something, the obvious answer is someone was taking a shit in the bathroom. &gt;Unless he believes in magic and demons or something 

That's exactly what the Chinese believe in. The Shitty Basement Sleepover Demon who holds bathroom doors shut. Better hang some wooden flutes from the ceiling or some shit to feng shui it out of there.  "Damn Mongorians, you poop in my shirry basement" And dragons. Don't forget the dragons. His dad is Keanu Reeves from 47 Ronin, magic shit demon. saw it on Dogma. shit was powerful IT'S A GOLGOTHAN! Maybe he thought it was someone else -- like one of his children or his wife. Should have closed/locked the door after you left the bathroom Yeah, I panicked. :( I'll say, you didn't even wipe. How did he not hear the toilet flush? IDK where you live, but over here, toilets are not stealth machines and can be heard throughout a house. The flush was still relatively quiet. It's a big house. For you.  Nobody knew who I was until I shit in the toilet. Is he still exercising? Oh yeah, He knows.  I'll bet at this point he knows exactly who's hiding from him and having fun with it.   "I didn't wipe and holy shit was that a good idea."  This may have been the only time that was said in the history of the english language. What is with redditors and taking shits at inopportune times? Just hold in! Unless they have a bidet

Edit: highest upvoted comment is about a ass-washing machine -.- bidet to you sir Why, thank you kindly.

Edit: grammar Some black ops shit goin down Well, except for the fact that OP is leaving a shit ton of evidence behind. *Literally* Brown ops shit? &gt; Brown OP's shit OP is shit? Are you dumb? Are they stupid? Me too thanks. Woods? Is that you?  The blanket Mason, what does it mean? Brown Snake. Brown Solid Snake Better than Brown Liquid Snake. Snake never concludes a mission without shitting on his opponents That's some next level pun here. Reading this on the toilet laughing becuase you didn't wipe, and I look to see there is no toilet paper...

Edit: Thank you reddit or for teaching me many valuable lessons today. My only regret, the sockrifice. Happens to the best of us. Apparently I'm one of the best of us. Good thing TP is under the sink just within reach...  You are indeed above average, Joe.  Not all heroes wear capes And those that do sometimes have to use them for...other...things. No Capes! [deleted] When you said kitchen roll my first thought was of a dinner roll, I was like wtf that's the worst substitute for TP I've ever heard, why would you wipe your ass with bread. Then I understood you meant paper towels. I need coffee :( [deleted] We call them paper towels. I understood what you meant though. 

  I'm not sure if I'll ever be able to look at dinner rolls again.  I will. 

*with my brown eye* I just did a double take on my TP supply.  Not as plentiful as I'd like... TIL dating a Chinese girl living at home is exactly like dating at 15 Yeah, sorry.

Also, apply this to most Asian and pan-Asian girls. It's true. My girlfriend is Asian and in college with me. When we visit back at her home, there's no sleeping together in the same room by ourselves. Even though we're 20  I mean, this is true of plenty of non-Asians too.  At least as a matter of respect, I've never thought it was a good idea to do this under someone else's roof.

Then again, I grew up in the Bible belt, so that might have something to do with it. I'm 27, white, and my bf and I own a townhouse together and he's still not allowed to spend the night when I'm at my parents. Tho my mom is FOB Russian so there's that  My Asian friend's parents went out of town so she had her boyfriend over to watch a movie. Her mom called and asked if there were any boys over... My friend lied and said no, at which point her mom informed her she had put cameras in the house. What the fuck Asian parents? 

Edit: I think she was 19 or 20 at the time  That fool! It was a bluff. Had a (non Asian) parent exactly the same way. Exactly. Don't forget that if you get married, her parents most likely get to move in with you and they are in charge of the household. SO I PULL OUT MY GUN! So I pull out my Beretta.

"Originally I wasn't going to have a gun, but I needed something to rhyme with dresser."

-R. Kelly Fuck, now i have to watch that. [I always think of this sketch. Also worth a watch](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2REG3-Wb5gM) Is that Donald Glover in the first situation ? The rest of the group was Pierce's writing team in the episode of Community where he, Troy, Abed, Shirley and Chang watched Kickpuncher as well. They also showed up periodically in the background.  http://imgur.com/fvyloCf "Cuddling" "movie" Anal Prolapse Well that escalated quickly. "Girlfriend" "Closet" Some kisses.  You know. A bit of penis touching you say? Rest In Poop, OP I read all this in a rushed, whispering voice... ^^Help ^^me, ^^Reddit. Girlfriend here...sorry (_) I had my (then) boyfriend come over after my parents went to bed. The plan was to stay in the basement, he parked down the street so they wouldn't see his car, and he would leave late at night while they were still sleeping.

It was perfect! No one woke up, and he was on his way out the door. Except that it had snowed unexpectedly.. I got lectured for about two hours when my dad found his footprints leading out of the house the next day. The best laid plans of mice and men often go awry... But hey, at least you guys made it out alive!!! It's a shame you still got lectured for no reason, though.. almost a complete success  Hahaha, yeah! It wasn't a terrible lecture, very run-of-the-mill.

I wish you had gotten out of yours :( That's ok, I should've listened to him about that guy, he was a jerk haha but I was also 16, so I deserved the lecture! I found someone way better.. my husband :)

I hope your parents understand down the line that your happiness is what matters, not the color of no-wipe-guy's skin! Confirmed, this is my honey. I forgive you. http://media1.giphy.com/media/Dvw2lJqlTuJmo/giphy.gif Nothing like a nice cup of coffee after hiding in a closet with a shitty ass.   I'm thankful for update #6, OP kind of left us hanging there.  But it doesn't answer the question, what about the underwear? Huh? How dirty is your ass?  

Eat more fiber You're a grill, you don't get it.  Dudes have... *hair*. And not just on the ballsack.  When I forget to trim up after a few weeks I can twist mine into little braids, I have on several occasions, turned my nutsack into what could arguably be a spot on Coolio, if he were 80 and white. You just made me imagine a cornrowed ballsack. That would be so painful.  Thanks for making me lose my shit on a public bus. (  ) I like to trim the hair and make my friends fake mustaches 

Shhhh http://i.imgur.com/udyASR6.jpg This is probably one of the best TIFU I've read all year.  Why do u have to hide your BF from your family? I mean hell both of you are over 21! Are they THAT strict?  In Chinese families, you're not an adult or independent til you get married. It's expected that you don't move out until then either. Even after getting married and moving out, independence is not guaranteed LOL Kind of makes it hard to get to that "married" part if you're not allowed to be an independent adult first, doesn't it? This is the part that Asian parents don't understand. Asian parents, especially when fob, can be excessively strict.

Source: Am asian. Hell, I thought having an Army Ranger for a dad meant I had strict parents, then I dated a Chinese girl. Can confirm. Roommates parents are FOB and are like that. That she moved away to go to college, is living with two men, and doesn't visit home is blowing their mind. They still try to get her married to anyone here just so they don't have to have a coronary when they walk into out house and see two men living with her. It's nuts. What does FOB stand for? At first I thought Fall Out Boy, but that didn't make sense so I figured it means Fuckers Of Butts. Fresh Off the Boat. Recently immigrated, basically. Of course that 'recently' is relative, some will hold onto traditions for several generations, others will embrace the culture of where they're moving to with open arms ASAP. Depends on the individuals and the culture they're coming from.  Oh, they know he *exists* and they've met him, but it's a whole other ordeal to have him sleeping over.

Plus, they need to know everything beforehand and we didn't plan this. ah I feel it. If you don't mind me asking. How long have you guys been together? 

I ask this because do your parents think it's still *early* in the relationship to have your BF over? Or does that not matter at all? 

 It's still pretty early yeah. I'm sure that does have a factor.

Also he's the wrong color. I'm white and my girlfriend is also Chinese. We've been going out for 2 years and her mother has yet to invite me over the house. It took over a year for her to acknowledge our relationship. I'm 26 and shes 22. There's no discussion with the mom about any type of sleeping over or spending the night anywhere, its her rules until she moves out of the house (in 2 months thank god), so we have to constantly lie to her. It's hard to explain this to non-mixed couples, people just think it can all be easily discussed with the parents. That is not the case.  Married a Korean-American. I am white. Her parents are full on FOB Korean. When I proposed to their daughter, they cried...tears of sadness. TAKE HER NO REFUNDS High five interracial couples!

Yeah, at this point I don't try to explain myself anymore. They're just not going to get it. I'm hoping to move out too, and I have some savings, but I'm still in school so that's not happening any time soon. I'm a 31 year old half Thai guy with a 29 year old white girlfriend. My mother refused to acknowledge our relationship and claims she's only with me for my money, because thats what white girls do. Shes upset im with her because my mother planned for me to marry this girl that lives across the street from our house in thailand. Its funny, because she makes thrice what i do. I haven't spoken to my mother in months, though.  I'm Latino, dating a black woman. We're both the same age and met in college. We've been together for four years and met during our last year of college. Her family has known me for three of those four years. They've seen me at family functions, and they know that I care about my girlfriend so much that I'd give my life for her. I was with her through the roughest time of her entire life, and we've both been there for each other through thick and thin. She lives with her grandmother. 

I just spent the night last week because my girlfriend is on a new dosage of medication that makes her drowsy; I didn't want her driving or worrying about me when she should have been sleeping. It's her first time taking a medication that we were worried about (and we were right-- we almost wound up going to the ER due to the medication's side effects). 

All that said, she still got chewed out in the middle of the night because I decided to stay by my girlfriend's side and be there for her... and I'll make a phone call today or tomorrow morning to offer a formal apology to them, in the hopes I'm ever allowed in the house again. Im a European mutt, my wife is Chinese, but they spent a couple generations in Jamaica. Imagine that. A huge Chinese family that all live in two adjoining houses. That speak with Jamican accents, listen to Reggae and make some killer Jerk Chicken Patties.

Her parents were always polite and friendly, but it took a long time for me to get comfortable with them, and them to get comfortable with me. Maybe 2-3 years AFTER we got married.

To get to that point, I had to engage everyone. I had to kind of force myself upon them, which is rather foreign to me. I don't ever smoke, but I brought over a box of cigars and smoked with my wife's uncles. Then they challenged me to ping pong. After my demoralizing asswhopping at the hands of what seem to be professional table tennis players, we got drunk on these tiny bottles of beer and played some weird form of poker that was designed to take all of my money. This was all while my wife drank tea with her cousins in the kitchen.

They've been a lot of fun to visit ever since. For my Latina ex's family, it was the time I stayed up until 3AM playing dominoes and drinking beer that got me accepted.

Beer and games seem to be the common unifying thread. Comments like these give me hope. Indian and 25 here, dating a Chinese girl. I have literally had to sneak up the stairs to see my girlfriend while her parents are asleep or downstairs. Her parents know I exist as well, but not nearly to the extent that I really do. It sucks, whenever I come over to pick her up I have to park on a different street so they don't know we're together :l I often wonder the same thing, but what I've come to realize is that dads are naturally overprotective of their daughters. Sometimes it's just easier to hide your shenanigans than deal with drama/judgment. Yeah true..I guess no matter how old you are, fathers will always be overprotective.  Because he's Indian if you guys tell your dad the entire story, damn that's gonna be fun  Nope.

http://38.media.tumblr.com/a1d6dccd5ae44ce72773a09939fe821a/tumblr_inline_mm8559gWfO1qz4rgp.gif Update 6 was vital information  You can never outsmart Asian parents.

Source -I'm Asian Unless it comes to technology
 This is true. It took me 15 minutes to explain to my mum how to double click on icons.  Step 1: Click

Step 2: Click again

Step 3: Decide you don't want to rename it

Step 4: Give up He's asian as well. So he's familiar with asian parents You got downvoted. I guess someone doesn't know their geography.  So, did he guess or ask about it at all? Our was the morning normal, according to your girlfriend? The morning was pretty normal. We're a weird family, and my dad got distracted by wanting to lecture me on life. I've slept downstairs before, most of my tech was downstairs (as if I decided halfway through the night that I was going to go back upstairs), and the door he was talking about gets stuck a lot, which is why my dad was trying to fix it again. 

And my boyfriend being in the closet was pretty expected. Glad he came out. &gt;my dad got distracted by wanting to lecture me on life

Story of every Chinese kid's life ever. Story of every ASIAN kid's life ever.  I can only speak for my own and my friends's experiences as Chinese people :P Didn't want to generalize all of the Asians. As a dad, sometimes you start lecturing and it just feels right. Wanted to lecture on life

Is Asian

Checks out. &gt; And my boyfriend being in the closet was pretty expected. Glad he came out.

How did nobody else see this double entendre?

Very well done. I think we all saw it, and that it was so apparent we didn't need to point it out?  ...Well I appreciated it ._. Thank you. I'm glad someone noticed :D Aha I had a similar situation with my ex-girlfriend. I was a 20 year old Caucasian rocker with long hair, she was a 25 year old Indian chick with super traditional parents. Fuck, the amount of times me and that closet chilled... How many of those times was peanut butter involved? Mostly it was "Butter Chicken Smelly Time"... What on earth are you guys talking about... His username ;) I was seriously waiting for I just shit in the dryer. Coffee? Go wipe your ass. Edit: May want to shower. I'm sure it's dry by now.  Legend says he still is sporting that poopy ass. they say on a summer's day, if you lock yourself in a closet and take a deep sniff, you can vaguely smell poopy ass &gt; I didn't wipe and holy shit was that a good idea. Lol I did something similar about 6 years ago, except I slept in my GF's bed with her, and had to hide under it in the morning for about an hour until her dad left for work. It was the middle of July in California and it was fucking hot, and for some reason she decided to go chandelier over ceiling fan in her bedroom. Oh yeah, and there was also another dude under the bed (a full) with me because her sister's BF did the same thing. So we're just crammed under this tiny bed for an hour or two sweating bullets.


I'm married to this girl now, and her dad still doesn't know. Hang on. You were in bed with your girlfriend, and then you had to hide under her bed but there was already a guy there - her sisters boyfriend? Why would be be under your girlfriend's bed? Shouldn't be be under his own girlfriend's?  dude.. he knew. 

When the bathroom door wouldn't open, he knew. 

When you flushed, he knew.

He's older, but he's not deaf. Why won't Tom Cruise just come out the closet?

Nobody has no answers, and so I pull out my gun!  Now I'm in the closet, now I'm in the closet too... &gt; I'm Indian.

"You snuck out of your girlfriend's house? Arey, beta, Dr. Patel's son broke into Pentagon.   Also, why girlfriend? Find a nice Indian girl for shaadi."

Edit: Grammar not bad enough. just think, now one day in the future when you have a daughter, you'll know why that god damn basement bathroom door is always locked "Now I'm trapped in the closet,
Now he's facing the closet,
Now he walks to the closet" A TIFU, but still in some ways a successful black ops mission. Or in this case, brown ops. Brother, you gotta get tactical! Are there any windows to the outside? Ah this brings back memories. My girlfriend snuck me into her room on my 19th birthday for sexy time but she had to go have dinner with her parents first. I hid under the bed and dozed off for like 20 mins and then I hear her dad walk into her room. Her door knob was broken and he was talking about fixing it. He went out of the room and my girlfriend came back, asking me to get into the closet and hide behind her clothes. I do that and I fell asleep crouching behind her clothes. I woke up to hear someone walking around the room. It was her dad and he had come back to fix her door. I forgot this and I ALMOST shat in my pants (I was pushing cotton) when I heard him jiggle the door knob because I thought he was opening the closet. Luckily he gave up and went to bed and I could get out of the closet. I woke up at 5AM the next day and got the fuck out of there. Sadly I didn't get to have birthday sex :(

BTW I'm Indian too and her parents are really conservative. At this point, is it safe to assume that there's an indian guy hiding in the vicinity of every teenage girl in a doomed attempt at sex?
 Yes Hooray, coming out of the closet buddies! I'm proud of you. People aren't stupid. If everyone in the house was accounted for, and the basement bathroom was locked, as well as a makeshift bed made up on the couch, he knew EXACTLY what was happening. MAYBE if the door got locked somehow and he had to jimmy it open, that's fine, but  coming back down again and it being wide open? He knows there is a person in his house. If he isn't saying anything, he's either biding his time, or feels too awkward to confront you about it directly (understandable, because who the fuck does that to you in your own house? People aren't trained or prepared to deal with shit like that)

He may never say a word, but he absolutely knows.  Dude I have a Chinese girlfriend and I know how you feel. Covert black ops shit all day. Coming up with all kinds of excuses to get her out of the house and sleep over at mine, or take extended trips anywhere. And were both over 20. Actually brings an air of excitement to the relationship.  Her dad is gonna think they are haunted by a poop ghost. Dad knows what's up...they always know Waiting to a TIFU post from the dad about how he had the chance to kill an intruder but he disappeared with only shit vapour as a trace, while he went to get a gun and the key.  Eyyy Indian bros

~~*raises hand for hi-five*~~ *raises pinky for pinky grab* Every dad on reddit should be checking their basement right now..  Every Chinese dad with a 20ish daughter and who watches TV on the treadmill. Is it common in this man's house that bathroom doors randomly won't open and then magically open and smell like shit?

I would have searched the entire house and questioned everyone. You flushed but didn't wipe? Recheck your priorities. Well, my thought process was I'd rather him not find a toilet filled with shit than find me. But touche. Oh man the look on the dad's face when he finally gets into the bathroom and just finds a fully intact log. That's how r/nosleep stories are created. Right?! Hiding in sometime else's house.

Hold bathroom door shut while homeowner furiously tries to open it from outside.

Do everything you can to not make noises, even the involuntary stomach ones.

Flush toilet.

Come on! I panic in times of crisis :( doesn't matter had se...... oh wait That final link after update #6 was a risky click... Lemme get this straight. You are a brown man in a Chinese den? 

Lol. As a Chinese this makes me scared. Are you R. Kelly? He totally knew xD  -Thump thump thump... 

I thought that was the sound of the poop.  #OURBOYISSAVED Would have been funny if the girlfriend's dad was on reddit and saw this and checked the closet! This post would not be possible in future generations. Ah man, I remember having to hide in my (Chinese) boyfriend's closet while his mom talked to him in the same room. I was posting on Facebook and everyone was making R Kelly references.  Did OP ever wipe his ass ? Update #6 We need to know how she explained the blankets and pillow. And didn't Dad hear the toilet flush? 

 I sleep in random places around the house, so it's not that weird that I'd set up shop downstairs. And my laptop and other stuff was down there so it potentially just looked like I decided halfway through the night to go back upstairs.

You can easily miss the basement toilet flushing if you're upstairs and distracted. Haha I do that as well. Pretty much slept all over my house. Even sleep on floors.  Variety is the spice of life. I hope you've now wiped your ass. Mission accomplished! Let's go home boys. I really think as a whole Reddit could have done much better in this scenario. 

Certainly with all of the people on reddit there has to be at least a few users in the area who could have shown up and did a brown ops mission for extraction lol Trapped In the Closet Two: The Poopy Ass. I wanna see OP's and his girlfriend's kids. Poppin' them out right now. &gt;Obviously I wiped before drinking coffee.

Let's be honest, You didn't wipe did you OP? "What did you do at little Annie's party?"

"We had cake and ice cream... played with her dog... oh and got chased around by the black man!"

"Wait... what?" HOW DARE YOU PLAY WITH A DOG!

*slap* Ah the ol Reddit switchywitchyshabalabadingdondfuckyou I'm not doing it. Hold my racism, I'm going in! Well there's no link Ssssh just go with it.. only dreams ^n^o^w but I ^don't ^^want ^^^to ^^^^go ^^^^to ^^^^^sleep... ssss^hh^hhh^hhhh^hhh^hh^hhhh

 Reddit is like some really creepy ass witch doctor sometimes. I love it. [WTF Dude](http://i.imgur.com/cYJ2jS1.jpg) LOL Lol [WTF Dude](http://i.imgur.com/4Yb4v5l.jpg) LOL Lol [WTF Dude](http://i.imgur.com/OjMv9rY.png) LOL Lol My name Jeff LOL /r/juxtaposition that shit My neighbour's little kids play "run from a paedophile". From what I've gathered it's just like tag, but instead of the "it" there's a paedophile :/ I hate to break it to you but your neighbours kids are onto you... at least now you can save money on all that candy you've been buying for your van. Whenever I buy candy I eat it all as soon as I get home, that probably wouldn't be a good career choice for me :( Pretty sure that doesn't count as a career choice unless you tack on a lot of other illegal stuff. If someone can be a professional ranch dressing expert, someone can be a professional pedophile. It's how baby animals play. It's to train themselves for the real world! "Here we see a wild human cub, playing with other cubs in order to prepare themselves against the predatory pedophile which roams the streets". Sounds like fun...what happens when you catch them?  Why don't you have a seat over there.  Hardly a bad fuck up of it has a very easy fix  Not every fuck-up has to be a bad fuck-up. I enjoy the short, simple, and believable fuckups over the elaborate tl;dr stories. Starts to ruin the experience when the OP starts to repeat exact conversations they supposedly had

These short ones are my favorite as well So your taste is very similar to your girlfriend's () Perhaps you'd prefer if people were more honest and precise, and wrote something like:


My sister said "I told you Mom and Dad would be home by six!"  Or maybe she said "Mom and Dad said they'd be home by six!"  Though she might have said "AT six," not "BY six."  She might also have said they'd "get back," rather than "be home."  And knowing her, she probably threw a "buttmunch" or "doofus" on the end that I ignored because she does it so often that my brain just edits those words out when I'm semi-listening to her. 

I replied...


I, however, appreciate when things like conversations are approximated for clarity and brevity. _ Add a black kid? a kid's birthday party Affirmative Action hire? Token? Don't bring me into this, motherfucker! Whatchu talkin bout Willis? No, it's simple, we just kill the blackman Figuratively speaking of course. In fact we can make a game of it, I'll put my fingers into the shape of a gun and point it at the kid in the cape, the "blackman" if you will and say "freeze blackman, its the police". 

As soon as he moves to put his hands up I'll shout "bang, bang, you're dead" and he will fall down to the ground where we can beat the black... cape off of him. Problem solved! Would have stopped it? Maybe 

If not I'm still sure a simple explanation should do it  Add the black kid to create confusion. Genius plan. 10/10 A burning lower case t in the front yard? No, that'd be appropriate if he were wearing white capes. no no no.....its a Halloween party so they have to wear spooky ghost costumes. Time to leave? As a black man....I'll admit it, I chuckled.  not as bad as i thought it would be when i saw this http://i.imgur.com/uoaBasu.png genocide is hardly an easy fix not with that attitude What I find amusing is that in like 20 years someone is going to be like

"I vaguely remember a game when I was at a birthday party when I was REALLY young and someone was pretending to be a black man and we were all running from him, but no one else remembers it" and they'll wonder if they made it up or there was some surreal racist game when they were young. They'll never know the context of the memory. I think the only fix is to escape the claws of the black man Folks are just tooo sensitive.  REMINDS me of me as a child in the early 80s. My brother and I watched the animated 'the Hobbit'. Then we innocently changed some of the consonant sounds of the main character's first name. I ran around out side the house screaming this, until Dad finally said something to us.     example :   Milmo, nilno, pilpo etc. Damn, Dildo Saggins! Darn it! Dildo Faggins is at it again! Warning: having sex in middle earth may be hobbit forming





Edit- was originally going to make another dildo joke but was feeling Sauron the subject... Overheard in *every* cheesy BDSM parlor since Aragorn became king:

Newbie Dom:  You *will* suffer *me*! Happy Father's Day! Most underrated comment I've seen all week.  Dildo Gaggins, and Scroto Faggins  Dildo Ravagins Dildo gaggins Illdo Swaggins Don't forget Smirnoff the wizard! I can't believe that there is another human being who actually watched Lord of the Strings, much less seven of them. 

Fun fact: I stole this movie from a Blockbuster when I was in middle school to see hobbit boobs. It was the only thing I've ever stolen. No ragrets.  It was lord of the G-strings wasn't it? Me and my brother found it under the free movies section offered on demand for free by our cable provider. Much laughing ensued in the next five minutes. I discovered "fuck" as a small child while walking by a dirty gutter, it was full of muck. Muck duck stuck Similarly, the first time I heard "fuck" I thought I was just making it up, stringing phonemes together. My dad freaked out and beat the shit out of me. I couldn't have been any older than 7. He was a mean, violent bastard. Kids make up words all the time, and usually when they learn a "bad" word, it's from their parents. He was the one who needed a fucking beating. His ass would have landed in jail so damn fast for the shit he pulled if it had happened today. Are you sure your dad didn't freak out because his 7 year old knew what phonemes were? Lol, I didn't know what a phoneme was then, but I know what they are now. +1 for giving the kind of smart ass remark I tend to make. Same didnt know the word until I saw your comment [Mmmhmmmm](http://www.vitamin-ha.com/wp-content/uploads/2012/12/Vh-mib-little-tiffany.jpg) Will Smith hates geniuses. Holy shit dude I'm sorry. My mom just said never to say that again. I "made it up" too! I was trying to make up a new word for "punk." First I replaced the letter 'p' with the letter 'f,' and I realized that funk was already a word so I just took out the 'n.' I told my older brother he was a 'fuk' and he explained to me that it was a bad word. When I learned that word, I just thought my friend mispelled "Funk" Sorry man. One of my first memories is being 4 and asking my dad what "nude" meant.  He slapped me hard across the face and walked away without a word. 

He was mostly neglectful, but the times he decided to hurt me he made sure it was very confusing for little me :(.

Heh..happy fucking father's day.  What the fuck, that isn't even an expletive. What a dick. HOW DARE YOU HEAR WORDS FROM THE OUTSIDE WORLD! I was put in time out for a whole day when I said "buck" [as in dollar] and the daycare person thought she heard "fuck". It was in context, too, like "two bucks".

When I got home I complained about it and my mom explained it to me. I don't give two bucks! My fianc has a similar story! He said it in the car and his mum gave him a real telling-off (not a beating, though.) He protested, "But I made it up!"

Also, my older brother was scolded by a teacher because he was quoting the scene in *The Jungle Book* wherein Baloo is laying on his back, floating down the river with Mowgli.

&gt; Hey Mowgli, how 'bout you flick that mean old fly off your papa bear's nose?

He said "fuck" instead because that's what he thought the word was, and got in serious trouble. Did he use a pair of jumper cables? I was playing duck duck goose. My brother did a similar thing with Truck and then started crying when I told him it was a bad word.  That's a pretty common one. Here's a kid saying "dump truck": 
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5LA4P-CqCL4 I was dating the oldest of 7 while I was at university. His youngest sister, while a toddler had the cutest speech difficulty.

Every time she saw a fire truck, she would yell excitedly "It's a fwuck!".

Editied for clarity. It's not the parents being overly sensitive. It's their 4 year old daughters telling them what they did at the party: "We ran from the black man." That sounds bad.

And it sounds bad even if you change it to any number of "men": "We ran from the white man." "We ran from the tall man." "We ran from the short man." "We ran from screaming man." On and on. Any number of possible combinations would have had a parent concerned and rightfully so.

Basically 4 year old little girls telling you they ran from a man is a red flag. Except if you have a four year old you should know it's make-believe. They couldn't take 6 seconds to ask "what do you mean you ran screaming from a black man?" Before breaking off a phone call? 

Having had 3 of them, I can't imagine having answered anything other than "that sounds fun!" It would certainly be stupid to think the kids were actually running from a real black man and, even if that were the case, they're obviously okay.  *But* to be fair, 4-year-olds are fucking terrible at explaining things, so I could see myself calling OP just to find out if they know what the hell my kid is talking about. &gt;Having had 3 of them

You've had three black men? Not all at the same time  Dildo Vag-ins Yep, my brother and I did this with 'duck'. When we got to 'f' our mother very calmly said that's a bad word and not to use it. We said 'ok!' and went on to 'guck'. &gt; 4 year old birthday party

A birthday party can go on for 4 years? Not with that attitude. The trick is to never stop feeding them candy. And later, insulin. and then cyanide and happiness ;) Some folks call that "college." Clearly you never partay'd with human Bender.  I bet I can eat nachos and go to the bathroom *at the same time!*




But seriously, let us have a moment of silence for human Bender. He showed us what it means to live. Woo! He's not cheering that's just the air being released from his fat Who wants a grilled cheese? My garbage man is named "The Black Man" So is my slave what a coincidence When you add THE to the beginning, Run from The Black Man, I think supernatural things. Especially when kids say it. The Black Man or the Dark Man seems like common children's descriptions of very dark ghosts/demons in supernatural history.  Nightman. Dayman, fighter of the Nightman! Champion of the sun! He is a master of karate! And friendship for everyone! DAY MAN!! Wah-ahhhhhh-ahh!!! Fighter of the Nightman! Aa-aa-aah! Champion of the sun! Aah-aa-aah! Mommy, Nightman paid the troll toll and got inside the boy's soul. The Night's King "I am the Shadow Man, and I never harm the person under whose bed I live." This last year my daughter was in kindergarten and was trying to show me a girl that she thought had a pretty backpack or something and said "that girl with the brown skin". The girls mother gave me a horrible look and I felt bad, but my daughter was just being descriptive and didn't understand that that may be offensive to someone. I felt bad for having to tell her not to mention people's skin color. Why would it be offensive in any way? Why would you tell her not to mention a persons skin color? It's not. As long as it's not derogatory, it's just a description. Some people are just overly sensitive.

Although I would advise people to describe clothing *first*. Not that it's less offensive, but unless it's a crowd of 99 white people and one black guy, it's way easier to pick out "the guy in the orange shirt" than "the black guy". After all, we wear clothes and have hairstyles to look unique, right? Once you describe the clothes you can move onto ethnicity and other features. Yup. And even more specific would be "The black guy in an orange shirt". But people can get so silly about that kind of stuff. I tend to just ignore those people.  

A coworker recently brought up the fact that I said "black" when referring to a customer. I was telling a coworker that there was a black guy in a white shirt on an aisle so he could find him and help him, because I was busy at the time. I mentioned that he was black because there were a couple guys dressed similarly there. He said I should have called him "African American". I asked him why he assumed that he was of African descent, when he could have any number of heritages. He got flustered and left.  My favorite is when someone describes someone who isn't American as African American. There was a Japanese show I watched with a black guy on it, a show that took place in Japan with all Japanese speaking actors (mostly) of Japanese decent and my friend describes him as "the African American guy"... :/  My "favourite" is when people describe Africans as African American. I think that one takes a special kind of stupid... I'm pretty offended when I am called white. I am not white skinned, I am perfectly cooked pizza dough skinned, thank you very much. because people are pussies I think I could come up with a better phrasing but your sentiment is spot on. Mentioning someones skin color as a describtion of a person isn't racism. The people who think this are just paranoid about racism. Most of them for example will only point it out if its about black skin color. If you say the white person over there most of them wouldn't say anything. And also it isn't racism, because you're describing the person by the characteristics of this person, not by the characteristics of his/her race. It just happens that her characteristics and those of her race are the same.  Your username has numbers in it Screw you! Stop being numerist! Stop replying to yourself!  Just tell them it's a German game... [German Wiki Source](https://de.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wer_hat_Angst_vorm_Schwarzen_Mann%3F)

The game is called "Wer hat Angst vorm Schwarzen Mann" (Who fears the black man) and it's about the "black man" catching the others. We've played that a lot in school (even in sports lessons) and I never thought about it as racistic, only after reading your Tifu...

As for the game rules:

1 "black man" on one side, and on the other all other people. There is a distance of about 15meters between both groups. Then you say some lines:

BM: Who fears the black man?

Others: Noone!

BM: And when he comes?

Others: Then we run away!

Followed by this the black man tries to catch them, while the others try to reach the side where the black man stood at the beginning. When all, but those who were catched, reached the other side, the black man and those caught by him will be on the side the others were before. Then it starts with talking again, same lines, only this time there are several black man. This continues until all are caught.

Was really a fun game, good old times...

edit: changed the game describtion a bit to make it more clear

edit2: For those interested, the history of it: (There are 2 popular theories)

1. The game is about a bogeyman called "der Schwarze Mann" (The Black Man). He was described as either a dark shadowy "[Gestalt](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gestalt)" or as a man in black clothes and used in spooky stories to scare kids.

2. According to Franz Magnus Bhme in 1897 was named after "Schwarzer Tod" ([Black Death](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Black_Death)), a big plague which happened in 1346-1353 and killed about 75 to 200 million people. The game begins with 1 person "infected" by the plague, and everyone he touches gets infected, too. In the end all are infected.

The game itself was never in the past associated with racism, but recently its getting called by other names, like: "Who fears the evil/stupid man/white shark/..." So you were playing a game of run from the SS officer? I mean the SS uniform was jet black I grew up calling this game "Sharks and Minnows", and according to Wikipedia it's called [British Bulldog](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/British_Bulldog) "Who fears the black man" is new to me! Came here for this. It's even more fun in a swimming pool! Ha, that sounds like another great old-fashioned German kids game we used to play all the time, "who fears the Jew". ah memories That game was the first thing that popped into my head reading this TIFU, wondering how it was a fuck up.. Im Finnish and I remember playing this as a kid. I remember once my family was invited to a party at a synagogue. At the refreshment stand there was a plate of cookies. Two seven year old boys came and took 10 each. I wanted to make a comment about how kids like collecting things, but what came out was "you people will take anything that's free." Plot twist, the boy was in fact black We had a game when I was little(10-15 years ago). 

It was called "Wer hat Angst vorm Schwarzen Mann?"
Translated:" Who is scared from the black man?"

That wasn't a problem back then. When my little sister was in Kindergarden, they had a character come and talk to them called 'Buckle bear'. Buckle bear taught children how to buckle their seat belts in the car, and she was telling us about him. She started saying Buckle bears name with different letters like 'Tuckle bear' or Muckle bear' until she got to 'Fuckle bear' and then she started repeating it, singing it like a song: "Fuckle bear, Fuckle bear, Fuckle bear."

You should have seen the looks on our faces.
 I now have a new name for Pedobear. Least non of your neighbours heard and are now silently judging you. Well was the kid black? Halfway through The Stand right now. Running from that guy sounds like a good idea to me. there is a childrens game in germany that's literally called "who's afraid of the black man" and no i never thought it meant black people, more something like slenderman. 

for anyone interested, it's a very simple variant of playing fetch, one kid is the back man, then you position yourself on one side of the gym or field or whatever and all the other kids on the other side. the black man kid shouts who's afraid of the black man, and the other kids shout nobody and run across the field, the black man has to cathc as many as possible who then also turn into black men, everyone reaching the sideline is safe. repeat until only one kid isn't a black man. he/she wins, and becomes the other first black man in the next round. When we moved to our new house and we were in the process of deciding what to call each room ("family room," "living room," etc.), it was suggested that we call the basement the Man Cave.  I thought this was boring and overused, so I began casually calling it the Meth Lab.  I mean, my daughter was too young to understand what that meant, it would just go right over her head, right?  

Sorry, no dramatic ending to this one.  She called the basement the Meth Lab in front of some extended family (who thought it was hilarious--at least the guys did), and I realized instantaneously that this could turn really ugly really quickly if she repeated it in front of the wrong person.  So I told her we're not calling it that anymore.  Now it's just the basement. How old was the daughter, i need the image of either my sister when she was either 3 or 6 in my head at a family dinner saying this in my head. It is just to funny. We used to play that as a game in elementary school PE. It's called "Who's afraid of the black man?" and everybody has to run from one side of the room to the other, avoiding the black man. I miss the nineties... So this isn't the birthday party where like 10 people got shot. I'd call it a success.  Teaching them a valuable life lesson  *Dana nana nana nana dana nana nana nana* ***BLACK MAN*** People are way to sensitive about these things, they are 4 year olds, tell the parents to chill the fuck out.  To be fair, God only knows what way the 4 year olds described the game. "The black man was chasing us and we ran away, the black man is bad, bad black man!" I think I'd want to know wtf my kid was talking about haha. Exactly.  OP said concerned, not angry or irate.  The parents likely just want to hear the real story just to be sure. The game you describe is actually really popular in Germany. We played it in kindergarten and elementery school (P.E.) all the time. You're right, I did jump the gun there, my bad.  The first TIFU that I actually laughed out loud from What were they concerned about? That seems to me like they think you said, "now is a perfect time to teach hate." And then created some racist game.

I hate parents sometimes. Why does it seem like parents lose common sense when they have a little rugrat? You fucked up because some parents gave you a call? Nah. Yolo swaggins and the fellowship of the bling  Yesterday at a grocery store, I'm (6ft,300lb white guy) standing in the middle of an aisle facing the shelving.  On my left at the end of the aisle is a display of piatas on my right a Hispanic family entered the aisle.


The child points my direction and says "look dad a big white boy, LOOK  AT THR BIG WHITE BOY" I glance to my left and see a big hero 6 piata,  and glance back to my right to see the cholo dad embarrassed.  I smile , he apologizes to me red faced and I told him I knew he wasn't talking about me...  Reminds me of a story my friend's dad would tell us. Let's call him Joe.

So one day when Joe was growing up, his dad decided to mix up a bunch of leftovers with a can of baked beans and a couple eggs and served it for breakfast. Joe thought it looked weird so he said "ew what is this?" His dad said "garbage, now shut up and eat it!" Turns out it was pretty damn good, so his dad made it for the family every Sunday for breakfast, and they called it garbage.

A few weeks later, Joe had a couple friends over for a sleepover. Come Sunday morning, and Joe's dad made everyone garbage. The other kids went back home and told their parents about it. Cue all the parents calling Joe's father up and asking why their kids said that he fed them garbage When I was around 4, I used to point out some neighborhood watch signs that had a black silhouette of a person. When at a public pool once I began talking about the "black man" who I saw everywhere. LMFAO as a black guy.. I find the Edit to be the best damn part!!!!
 When I was young, about 5 or 6 (this was in the late 70's) my sisters made up "the black man" to scare my brother, who was a little older than me but scared of everything. So on random nights they would look out the window by our beds and say  they saw the black man and my brother would scream and hide. I always imagined he looked like a shadow, but when I tell people about it, it sounds horribly racist.  Were the parents calling because they were concerned a black man was chasing the kids around? I love how the only edit is to specify that this did not occur in Detroit. As someone from Michigan, this made me chuckle. Represent! The best part is, the only ounce of racism is in the minds of the parents. I seriously would have told those parents that their children jumped to "the black man" instead of "the man in black", and then tell them to step their parenting game up. Time to get alpha on these betas.  Let's sing the Black Man song.

Black Man, Black Man, Black Man

nana nananana nananana

Black Man!

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EtoMN_xi-AM It's quite obvious that what the children were saying wasn't intended as anything racial.  I'm sure if you explain to the parents the events that transpired they'd understand this. Yep, they totally did, with a laugh. Just tell them that they're kids. The "Black Man" was about a kid with black clothes and had nothing to do with racism. Well its better than all the girls dressing up in white and chasing the black kid I wouldn't be afraid of the black man running. He's got it right, he's got a better life coming. This seems familiar... This seems familiar... Not a fuckup at all.  A 4yo has no clue about such things and any parent who *still* has issues after hearing the story is a moron.  I don't know about you but I am not concerned about opinions a moron may hold about myself. should've told them that's Nightman, fighter of the Dayman and you're good. They learned a valuable life lesson. No fuck up.  This reminds me of a German game called "Who's afraid of the black man?". It was often played in physical education of primary schools when I was a kid. In that time people were still perfectly oblivious about any political implications of such a thing.

One kid starts on the opposite side of the gym than the others and tries to tag the other children while they pass from one side to the other. If you get tagged, you turn to the group of "black men" and gain more and more kids until there is no one left. 

I can't find any English sources about it but here's a German [Wikipedia page](https://de.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wer_hat_Angst_vorm_Schwarzen_Mann%3F) about it. Sounds like the English variant called Bulldog.  We always just called it sharks and minnows This is what happens when emotionally-charged words have two meanings. Did the boy shout anything untoward like "come here, you're ma bitches"? Fuck political correctness. You can't cave in to every bleeding heart. He was a 'man' and he was literally black. It was not a racist term. You should have corrected them: "Run from the African American man!" Then parents wouldn't be so upset. Right?  Kids at that age do not know what that means, really holy shit those parents are so PC it's scary.  
It's like the Racism Gestapo, they should all wear arm bands and patrol the neighborhood.

Vee are the PC police, recording your every word! Heil!

fucking youth of today everyone under 30 is screwed in the head with this PC shit, unfortunately gotta blame my generation for this.
 [Relevant I guess...](http://i.imgur.com/BWo5yBs.png) #22 and #23 on my front page atm

 he's trying to rape our women...roof was on to something  Inadvertent life skills education! Thaaaatssss rraaaaaccciiissssttttt waaahhhhhhh waahhhhhhh. My wife told me when she was about 3, her Mom took her to the zoo. She was sitting in her stroller looking at the gorillas. A large black man came near the window looking at the gorillas too when the man and the 3 year old happened to look at each other. She looked at the gorillas and back at the man and back at the gorillas and was starting to look scared. The Mom realized her daughter was probably about to say something that was going to make things really embarrassing and quickly wheeled her away just as she was starting to point to the man.  Thanks for keeping it short! When I was 5 and my brother was 3,(1985) we were in McDonalds and my mom was holding my brother.  The guy at the register had one of the biggest noses I've ever seen. When he asked "how can I help you"...my brother said "you have a HUUUUUUUGE nose." This reminds me of a story. My friend's sister was at work with her mom when she was about 8. The mom's coworker was morbidly obese and picking out pieces of white bread from a loaf, tearing out the middle, balling it into her mouth and eating one after another. My friend's sister said to the woman, "You have a big nose." The morbidly obese woman replied to the girl's mom, "If that's all that she finds wrong with me, that's pretty good!" People really call for that kind of "concern"? Jesus. You're lucky the cops didn't come I'm guns drawn. They must have realized there wasn't a real black dude there.  Am I the only one that thought, from just reading the title, this was relevant to the Detroit shooting? [This](http://i.imgur.com/sMI8GXK.jpg?1) is currently my front page. Thanks for circling it, I almost missed it! As a black man I am trying to figure out why anyone would be offended.   To kids it's simply that the bad guy is in black, to adults it's racism.

Fuck those legalistic adults!!!! Let the kids be innocent. When my little brother was younger, he had a Venom costume that he refused to take off. He ran around telling people he was "black Spiderman". Teaching them important life skills early on... nice. You gotta love that mob mentality. I'd have just told them all to eat a dick, though. They probably thought it was the show 'what would you do?' and wanted to look good in front of the hidden cameras. *reduces innocent patron to tears*

"Man, I'm going to look *so* good on national television." What would you do? was awesome. I always wanted to sit in the pie pod. I miss 90s Nickelodeon.  It's not the same What Would You Do.
The one that's on ABC is like candid camera, but the "pranks" are "paid actors be assholes to paid actors and see if someone intervenes" instead of "THAT GUY'S HEAD FELL OFF WOW, WAIT NEVERMIND IT DIDN'T, LOL."

The one on nickelodeon was like a gameshow thing with audience participation. Yeah, the one now has an actor or actress do a morally wrong thing to another actor or actress in public(child abuse, racism, sexism, etc.) then watches to see how and if the public intervenes.  Host comes out afterwards and interviews the witnesses/interveners. It's still on. It's on Friday nights on ABC. Sometimes I wish I still had a tv.  This isn't one of those times. It makes me so angry to read this because something similar happened to me awhile ago. 

At my local cowboy bar and I go to the washroom. They have one of those guys that give you soap and paper towels and have stuff out like deodorant and lollipops. 

I was pretty drunk and after receiving some paper towel I said thanks, put a toonie on the tip tray and took two lollipops and exited the bathroom. 

As I exit the washroom I hear the guy saying something about money taken, I just kind of ignored it but then I get pushed into a corner by these three muscle dick white knights who start yelling at me about stealing the guys money.  The one guys pushes me up against the wall and choking me. It all happened so fast that I didn't know how to react. I pulled out my wallet and the change I had to try and explain that I didn't take anything. They had none of it and just kept yelling at me... Until the cops showed up just a few minutes later. They were already in the bar so some passerby must have notified them and I am glad they did. 

Cops take our statements right there in the bar and end up kicking them out. So at least they believed me. 

I think if I wasn't so drunk and easy going, I would have absolutely lost my shit and gotten arrested myself. Just thinking back to this makes me so goddamn livid. The mob mentality to accuse someone of something with little to no evidence just infuriates me.

Fuck all of those people in OPs Starbucks who think they are the judge and jury.  Hands on my throat, I'm fighting for my life against the hands' owner. That's battery and at least threats of grievous bodily harm. That was my first thought too. They can go screw themselves. Then I thought I would just rip up the $10 bill to show everyone I don't care and to screw the trash talking employees out of money. Then I thought I might pull out my "here you go mugger don't stab me" $50 bill I keep I my wallet and shred it, especially since most people don't realize you can trade in mutilated money at the bank if you have  of a bill or both serial numbers. Then I thought that I wouldn't have been in this situation in the first place because I would just have asked politely that the employee to please take out the $10 bill folded in with the $1 bill I just stuck into the top of the jar. Then I realized I wouldn't leave a tip for this type of "handed me a coffee" level of service. Then I realized I don't drink coffee but think way too much about hypothetical situations, so maybe I should start drinking coffee so that I have more energy for more important tasks afterwards. Then I realized that it's probably a poor time to start drinking coffee because I'm actually in bed. Then I realized this isn't a bed and I'm actually in a casket and dead. &gt; Then I thought I might pull out my "here you go mugger don't stab me" $50 bill I keep I my wallet and shred it,

People do this? I would just say I have no money and show them my empty wallet then he/she will feel bad and go buy me a milkshake and then we hangout maybe play some checkers then go watch a play.  You might get beat up for wasting the muggers time  http://m.imgur.com/gallery/dhMeAzK "I don't need to steal money out of the tip jar because I don't work at a fucking coffee shop" That's something to come up with in the shower the next day Very much this. What are they going to do, these people who you're never going to see again?

It's also not like you can't just go to a different starbucks next time (or somewhere that actually makes good coffee). I honestly dream of situations like this sometimes. to just rip the ppl back would make me soooo happy  Easy to say when you're not in the midst of it, perhaps. [deleted] It's absolutely the hardest erection possible. Yep. So many people on reddit say "sure you would" when you talk about reacting in a conformational manner. Completely unaware that some of us love those moments. I have a low tolerance for bullshit and would have definitely said something, especially when I know I'm right.  Relevant username. Take the bill out, make a big show about putting it back in, rip it into pieces and throw it in the jar, flip everyone off, and then when you get your coffee throw it at someone.  Or I've been in a similar situation, perhaps. Call the manager and ask them to watch the camera. The way the employees treated you was very unfair.  [deleted] A valid reason.   Very much so.  I don't usually like jumping on lower wage folks to get fired when they make a mistake, but this was just pathetic.  People like that shouldn't have any sort of customer service job. As a lower-wage fella who acts friendly even to the assholes who make my life hell, fuck these people. I don't care what you get paid, you don't bitch customers out. or call corporate even. just know the store number and what day/time you were there.  this is the right idea. OP probably doesn't want to hear this because bygones, but ideally I'd have called up corporate right there and complain that employees were talking trash about me and accusing me of stealing. Starbucks is very serious about customer service. Now i want op to do this and report back. I need closure from this event  Do it OP! Take control, empower yourself! You're a good person and this is an opportunity to tackle your social anxiety. Rob Schneider says you can do it! This is coming from someone who used to have pretty bad social anxiety. It's actually really manageable if you choose to tackle it.  Even better, email the customer service department. OP mentioned anxiety, this is the easiest route to go. Starbucks has an amazing customer service department, any time I've had an issue I've sent in a polite email and received one back letting me know they'd be contacting the store to relay my feedback, and gave me a free drink or a $5 gift card or something.  TL;DR: People at Starbucks ripped a new one all over 10 bucks.  "Go fuck yourself"

Try it :) Truly magical words. "Hey, Granny, check out this new phrase I just learned...!" &gt; "Go fuck yourself"

As Adam Carolla says, always have one chambered and ready to shoot.
 Hey, 10$ could get them a drink. 

Edit: I typed it as 10$ on purpose. It's just how I do it for whole numbers. If I was saying 10.00 then I would put it as $10.00. This is just my preference.  You don't need to keep trying to correct my personal opinion.

Edit 2: Guys. You all understand what I mean. Relax. Don't get people's hopes up Probably a nice steaming cup of the water they used to wash the coffee pots.  Hello! I'm curious about the dollar sign thing. I see it after numbers a lot on reddit. When you go to a store and see prices that say something is $10, does it look wrong to you? Fun fact: The reason it is traditionally written as $10.00 instead of 10$ is a hold over from written checks and bills of sale. By writing it as $10.00 you sandwich that dollar amount between the dollar sign and the decimal. This makes it much harder for a dishonest person to add extra numbers in an attempt to scam money. Example if its written as 10$ someone could stick another 1 to the front and make it 110$. Where as doing the same to $10.00 does nothing (1$10.00). I would turn the dot into a comma and add zeros behind it so it would look like this :
$10,000.00

*walks away with $9,990* Is that why other countries use periods for grouping and commas as decimals? Interesting thought, but probably not since these conventions have been around before there were checks. Are you sure? Checks began with Florentine banking in the sixteenth century and were universal by the eighteenth, but I don't remember ever seeing commas or periods used for digit grouping in eighteenth century documents. I think modern-style digit grouping is a late 19th or early 20th century introduction. That's why you're supposed to draw a line (better if it's squiggly, according to my economics teacher) behind the amount.

ie. $10.00~~~ or $10.00  No idea how to fact check that, sounds right though so heres an upvote!  Reddit in a nutshell. Some people will write 10$ instead of ten dollars, so the order seems to match up. I mean you wouldn't say dollars ten right? But yeah in front is the right way. $10.00$ dollars USD https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vnUv2fhFy5E /r/peopleofstarbucks You sir, are a disappointment  Check the subreddit. I displayed disappointment Made it!

Now we just need to find content. It's already been taken over by people who think it's the starbucks fan club... I'll post something.  Phone in my pocket... I'll start taking photos and videos now. I'm a barista, if I'm on register I would know if there was a $10 bill in the tip jar.

Edit: To the people asking if we deserve tips, unless you make a complicated order, I really don't care if you tip, I don't think I deserve it. Yea, the baristas are assholes. I'm sure the register person knew, but didn't speak up because hey its 10 dollars. OP needs to talk to upper management about this, employees talking shit about you openly over something they probably know isn't true is something that shouldn't be happening. I'm sure PR would quickly work to remedy the situation.  This is the right answer to this situation.  The right answer is just not to tip Baristas.

In any case, if this is a franchised one inside a store, pretty sure they're not even allowed to have a tip jar funnily enough. this or write to the company about it. You know they keep security footage.  I'm pretty sure that'll exacerbate the social anxiety and panic attacks that OP talked about though :/ May not be worth it... OP can always send an email to corporate with details of which store and time it happened, etc. Corporate would make sure that there would be reprimands and something to compensate for OP  It's usually only there because we bought ones out of tips; nobody tops that big except on Christmas (unfortunately). I worked at starbucks a while back and a guy would tip $5-10 everyday on a grande Pike. I'm not really sure why he did so but I guess he was just a nice guy with a lot of money. &gt;  I'm not really sure why he did so but I guess he was just a nice guy with a lot of money.

Yeah. That's it.  I'm sure that's it. Here in Australia the minimum wage in the Fast Food Industry is $18.52 per hour (weekdays) and a barista made coffee is around $3.50 in the cities. It's pretty unusual for someone to tip in a coffee shop here.   Dunno where you're getting $3.50 coffees from, lucky to get one for $5 in brissy How big are your tits? I'm a skinny man. They are nonexistent. How big is your bulge? Exactly! http://www.wsj.com/articles/gay-pride-parades-around-the-world-photos-1435434505 I should know by know not to read article comments :\ It's even weirder that these kind of people read the Wall Street Journal. I stopped reading it after the incorrect statement about us being the only species that practices gay sex.  Congratulations deviant  yeah WHAT THE FUCK?? FUCKING TIP $10 I MADE YOU A DAMN COFFEE FOR FUCKS SAKE!!!! I DESERVE IT!! I'll take some downvotes too. A $10 tip on a $2 coffee is insane. $2 coffee? At starbucks!? It's ok- he just forgot the 0  So it was a small coffee then? I think you mean *tall* Oh fuuuuuck you.  Oh man, i asked my boyfriend to get me a medium coffee the other day so he goes and the barista gets this snooty attitude and snears "You mean grande?" My boyfriend has never had Starbucks so he thinks the guy is asking him if he meant large and tells him no, a medium. And the barista will just not. let. it. go. He just keeps waiting, not even trying to explain, for my boyfriend to say the word grande like it's so important. I had one correct me once when I first went to Starbucks and asked for a small.  She said, "A tall?" and I said "well if you have three sizes and it's the smallest one, then yeah."  It seemed to bug her.

*that was before minis" They're a bad barista then. We're given explicit training not to do what they did. If the customer orders a medium, get them a medium.  Tall (small) brewed coffee is $2.00. It's only when you add your fucking soy, hazelnut, caramel drizzle bullshit that it becomes expensive, coming from a barista.  $2 for a small coffee is gratuitous.

At Tim Hortons it's $2 for a large. A short brewed coffee is $2.12 including sales tax in New York, NY.  I'm sure it's $2.00 or less in other places.  $2.35 for a Venti in Louisiana. BUT I DID A LOT OF WORK!! LIKE POURING LIQUID INTO A CUP AND HANDING IT TO YOU!! IM AN ARTIST!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! Well it took a art degree to make it. I never tip you guys. It's not a tipping job, and cheapens the sanctity of the tip for jobs that run on it, which I have worked. Sorry. Anything bought and picked up at a counter is always going to get left-over change at best from me. The only time I've ever tipped a barrista well was when a bitchy coworker was with me giving them hell for making her latte too foamy. I dropped a 5 on the counter as I mouthed a sympathetic sorry to them while ushering her away. Take all the money out and eat it to assert dominance  Wait, I've been *peeing* in the tip jar.  Have I been doing it wrong?  Also, we should probably not patronize the same establishments... for health reasons. Afterwards wait ten minutes and ~~secrete~~ excrete the contents on the floor to assert further dominance while looking at a barista straight in the eye. I'm really starting to think Reddit doesn't understand the concept of "dominance." Putting the 10 back in there makes the other people think you actually DID take it I'd probably do the same thing if people were yelling at me, though. Social anxiety, yay! ^/s Yep. Once I got out of a taxi in St. Maarten and it was a fixed fare so I had paid the driver for me and my brothers fare at the start of the ride, but he claimed I never payed. I told him no, but he started yelling at me so I panicked and just gave him double. I still regret not just giving him the finger and going into my hotel. Fuck taxi drivers that knowingly cheat foreigners.  THIS. Until you've been faced with the situation, you never know how you'll react. I had a pizza delivery guy tell me my tip was not large enough and I needed to give him more. I complied because who the F does something like that? Sorry about your situation op, that's tough :(

Edit: splling I have social anxiety. I'd still just tell them all to fuck off, while making sure the barista didn't spit in my drink. Going about it all wrong. Look for the one patron who's not taking part, walk over and hand them the $10.  
&gt;Fuck all y'all, except you, you're cool. Another good way to shift the death stares onto someone else. No way to be sure about the barista... best to just abort mission. got social anxiety?
yep yep yep
still take much shit?
no no no Howdy, HeyGuysImMichael. Here's your [award certificate](http://i.imgur.com/3f8wRkB.jpg) On the other hand everybody who witnessed it will be dead in 100 years. And the sun will expand and the earth will turn to ash and humanity will either be extinct or having incomprehensible post-human adventures so they will have  long forgotten  a tip jar on a dead planet. Social anxiety means you tend to dwell on those minor moments, even when you know everyone else has long-forgotten. I thought I got honked at once. Hours later I brought it up to my boyfriend and his response was "Wow youre still thinking about that?"

YES I NEED TO KNOW WHAT I DID WRONG. WHY DID HE HONK AT ME. AM I SHIT AT DRIVING OR WAS IT FOR MY SAFETY.

Dont get me started on why I insist on using self serve checkout.  I know. This is how I deal with social anxiety. I replace it with mild angst and general malaise. I just drink a heavy dose of nihilism.  Really?  I didn't realise that was an option.  I've just been staying home and getting pizza delivered. Nuh uh!  Didn't you see Interstellar? Also, chances are those accusatory people will never change their mind about anything. I mean, they've got spare time to mean-mug at a Starbucks. Maybe OP putting the $10 in again freed one of them from their mental prison.  TIWGC


(Today I was George Costanza) First thing I though of after reading George wouldn't put it back though.  I was surprise I had to scroll this far Take this post, type it in a letter with your contact data. Include the date, the location, the time, and as many relevant details as possible. Send it to both Macy's and to Starbucks.   Make it clear both are recipients on your letter.     Wait for your "We're sorry" gift card (from whichever entity is the most concerned with customer service).  Take your hopefully $10 Starbucks card to another location, and don't return to this one. 

Try to feel better knowing you were right. The only "Monday Morning Quarterbacking" advice I can give is, that your "oops my bad" wasn't loud enough, or forceful enough, or informative.  Make sure you announce and overshare what you are doing loudly, such as "Excuse me, barista!?  I meant to put in a $1 and put in a $10 by mistake ... I'm removing my $10 and replacing it with my $1 okay? Thank you!" They'll probably give much more than just $10.  Do you think OP has a chance at *two* $10 gift cards? I was accused of stealing money out of a bartender's tip jar once.  I honestly have no idea why she would think I did that, i don't even think i had my hands near her tip jar.  Anyways a bouncer escorted me outside and I missed the band that I was there to see.  No refund and I had to wait outside for the entire show because I was with friends. The staff also made me feel really shitty about myself.. That's unacceptable... "Ya I paid all this money to see this band just so I could STEAL YOUR FUCKING LOUSY TIPS you sonofabitches..." Did you make a complaint afterwards!? I use to work at Starbucks.

They always have cameras facing the register so tell them to check the tape. Then ask for the district manager and you will get a fuck ton of free shit.

Starbucks is all about customer service and everything that happened is ridiculous. Corporate doesn't stand for shit like this. OP. Remember, you were in the right.  And as uncomfortable as this was, it's temporary.  Those twats had an incorrect perception of the situation and you basically got caught in a "Costanza."  If there's ever a next time, stand your ground and tell them "back up off me and or keep it moving."  Don't let this ruin your week.  You are better than that.  This makes me so mad. As someone who always regrets every action they do around others, I am sorry you had to go through that.  This happened to me once with one of those hand towel people in a bar bathroom. I was drunk and I went to put a tip in his basket. Had a $1 and a $20. Of course I put the $20 in and he literally turns around right as I am taking it out. He didn't even say anything, he just stared at me in shock (kinda like the barista in the McGruber coffee scene). 

I tried to explain myself, he looked pissed and said it's fine. I said "do you really think someone tipped you $20?" and then I said, nevermind, fuck it... you can keep it. Bathroom attendants... why do they exist?! Why do I have this social pressure to pay someone a couple dollars to gesture at a sink for me?   Or turn the water to scalding hot instead of letting me choose my own temperature? Or be standing right outside my stall so I can see their feet and have no chance of shitting due to social anxiety?

I think bathroom attendants are the thing I hate most about NYC. they exist to keep people from fucking up the bathrooms during big events / at super busy places. Otherwise it would be screwed up horribly repeatedly throughout the night, and someone would have to keep going in and cleaning it.

So either they hire someone to keep an eye on the bathroom for the night, or they hire someone to clean it repeatedly that night. Since an attendant can get paid *a lot* less as a tipped worker, they go for that.

tl;dr: they'd rather have a dude who they can pay less They're usually only employed for big events where I am. They basically act as bouncers for the bathroom; an employee there to keep potentially illegal activity from occurring and not much else.  I'd expect that it would have a psychological effect on people which would make them be cleaner and more respectful of the bathrooms too. OP I'M SO SORRY!!!

Oh my god I WOULD DIE! Fuck those people. Fuck them, OP. They are terrible.

It sounds like a self righteous mob of mean, stupid mean people. It sounds like the type of people who would frequent a Starbucks .... In a Macy's. Barf  I would've gone back to take the $1 as well. I would have took it back as well. If you talk shit about someone that just gave you a tip, you don't deserve it.  Please, if this really happened, file a complaint with their corporate HQ, or make a bunch of tweets bout it that they're tagged in. From a customer service worker, this is complety unacceptable and disgusting. This is why money should be in different colours [Australian bills are different colors and lengths](https://alittlecameo.files.wordpress.com/2011/03/img_2059.jpg) Why did I click that image knowing what it was?! I'm Australian. Because it was blue. Just like this link: /r/spacedicks  Maybe he thought it was a 10 (dollar?) bill. Your money looks like monopoly money! ....no really, that is some colorful ass money.  GOTTA CLICK ALL THE LINKS To check if there was a fiver, no fiver, so shit post So glad we don't have a tipping culture. Was super confusing when I visited the states.

Plastic money rocks! On the flip side, varied lengths have never bothered me or anyone I know. Sounds to me that the people in this Starbucks fucked up, not you I see it now. Some lady staring at you with righteous indignation as she took a sip of her grande iced caramel macchiato. It's a grande iced caramel _soy decaf_ macchiato, you philistine! I would asked the employee to speak to their manager. That was just plain rude. Stand by your word. So what if they think you're lying, if anything you made yourself look guilty.  That's the trouble with anxiety... it's so hard to think that through in the moment. I feel bad for OP though. If you're ever in this situation again, just kindly tell everybody to fuck off!

Or unkindly. Doesn't really matter. &gt;As someone with severe social anxiety and panic attacks based on exact situations like this, this was my worst nightmare. I'm never leaving my house again.

Know that feel bro. Just try not to let it get to you. Shit happens. :/ "Excuse me? What? No, you are mistaken. I placed the 10 in on accident.  I meant to tip a dollar. Now get the fuck out of my face and mind your own damn business."

Go about your business. If someone is staring you down, ignore them. If they talk shit, ignore. As soon as they realize you don't give a damn, they'll go back to staring at their cell phones. 

Edit: Lots of people have stated that you should stare back and I generally agree if you are a self assured person that isnt afraid to stand your ground. It's worth noting that my advice was for OP, someone that would like to avoid conflict. Staring back could possibly escalate the situation if done to the wrong person.  Easier said than done for some people.   Agreed. Saying this is like saying to a person suffering from depression "Oh, just ~~smile~~ cheer up and try to focus on the positive". 

It doesn't work like that for many people. When I'm depressed, clinically/chronically, nothing helps. Time, maybe, sometimes a good night's sleep... But smiling? 

Edit: I wasn't in the best frame of mind writing this, and I agree that smiling, like the superman pose and exercise, do help ones mental state. 

As /u/Schnizzer pointed out below, something I've gotten before and is commonly dolled out in this manner, to "cheer up" being a better approximation and I agree, so I've edited to reflect that. And while social anxiety and depression are not the same in any way, I think the "chemical" limits can coexist and can make it very challenging for someone who is suffering a social anxiety attack to actually react in a way that a normal person would see as completely logical and reasonable. I know when it happens to me that my brain will lock up, and those times that I do say something the adrenaline rush fucks my brain up so much that even simple words and phrases will ball up and jumble as they're rolling out of my mouth. 

And let me tell you, when that happens... It takes a fucking horrific situation and makes it endlessly worse.  As someone with clinical depression, that is by far the worst thing to say. "Just cheer up. It's not that bad." And the worst part is I'm mostly just angry all the time anyways so this is basically a deadman switch for me. Nothing can stop what you released after that... The best is, "I was depressed once, but I decided to just stop being depressed, it's that easy" Why don't schizophrenics just ignore the voices? It's not that hard.  I ignore my wife all the time, I could totally do schizophrenia. As a Starbucks barista, let me first say this isn't a real Starbucks. They are a franchise who has bought permission to use our name and coffee. I've trained a lot of people, and this kind of behavior is extremely discouraged from day one. Secondly, any time anything larger than a $1 bill enters the tip jar, the person on register will know, and if its a $10, the person on bar will know too. If they were saying anything about you, they knew they were wrong. Sorry, Starbucks barista here too. The ones you are referring too are not allowed to receive tips. I.e Safeway, Hagen and many other stores. They are not allowed to take tips because they are not actual Starbucks partners, per the liscencing agreement they have in order to use our brand. You can only tip and receive tips if you are at, or work at a real store, not the liscenced crap ass stores.  Then what happens with the tips? Where do they go? I've actually seen tip jars at Starbucks inside other stores, like Target. Because some rules are not enforced. You think they are going to pull a multi 5 figure franchise fee because of a tip jar?

 You're better than me. I get violent when people start accusing me of crap I didn't do. You got a story, I would've gotten a felony. My exact reaction would have most likely been "No, i didnt take it. I accidentally put the $10 bill there instead of the $1 bill, so i took it out and replaced it for the $1 bill. You dont believe me? Well FUCK you! You can all go and FUCK YOURSELFS! THATS WHAT FUCKING HAPPENED AND I DONT GIVE A FUCK IF YOU BELIEVE IT OR NOT!!!"

And then someone would call the police. I like you. Until you accuse him of something he didn't do! Next time DON'T put it back in,  that only validated they were correct and now will tell all their friends they guilt tripped the "thief" to put it back. I would have said loudly "I tipped $1 and accidentally put in this $10 also,  thus I took the $10 back,  get over it"  That's just mean! So sorry they did that to you. TIL people tip at Starbucks. Went through a Starbucks Drivethrough once. Fucking asshat took a tip out of my money when handing it to me despite me saying "none" when asked "How much I'd like to tip". I thought it looked odd that he put in $2 in the tip jar right after handing me my money back, so I counted it. Sure enough, the entitled little shithead took my fucking money and put it in the tip jar. Ended up causing a commotion because the guy didn't want to give my money back. He just had this attitude to him like "If you don't tip, you're an asshole." Manager sided with him til I said "Look, I said no tip. He's refusing to give me my full change back for my order. Unless you want a lawsuit on your hands, give me my GOD DAMN MONEY and my coffee." 

And then they said "Don't use the Lord's name in vein." I almost lost it. I had half a mind to just call the cops, but another employee came over and asked them to stop being dicks and they gave me my money and coffee.  I would've immediately told them that "Thou Shalt Not Steal" is also a commandment, have they heard of it?

"As if God won't know you stole that money?"

Or how about "Thou Shalt not bear False Witness against Thy Neighbor?" How about that one?

It's such a goddamn shame that "religious" people don't realize their hypocrisy. But hey, Jesus warned us about that too. You should not feel bad! If I were you, I'd call back the next day and complain to the manager. Maybe it won't go anywhere but those employees were fucking dicks. Can't do much about the stupid-ass customers at this point, unfortunately.

In the same position I definitely would have yelled "Suck my dick" at least 3 times. Ignore all the people saying that you handled the situation poorly, or talking about the imaginary scenario where they do something really cool and suave. These people are not factoring in your social anxiety, which would have left you feeling like your life was over in those moment. I'm sorry you had to feel that way, especially since you were being generous and tipping.

No pressure, but if you want to try to get a  handle on that social anxiety, I really recommend speaking with a psychologist, or reading a book like iMammal. The feelings that accompany this kind of mentality are able to wear a person down and prevent them from living a happy life. You're safe, you're loved, there's nothing these people can do to you. Shaka, when the walls fell.  
George Costanza in line for the soup Nazi.  
Brooklynglittergirl leaving Starbucks, her cup empty. Ok in a situation like this, I wouldn't have felt at all bad about you having posted this from a throwaway and included the particular store. Karma's a bitch.

It's not like accidentally putting an extra bill in a tip jar and taking it back out never happens. It happens all the time. Fuck all those people, they were simply looking for the next cause to hate for 5 minutes. This sounds like something that would happen to Larry David I was a barista in a locally owned shop for years, I always knew how much money was in my tip jar. Those workers were dicks.  

Fun story though, one time these two high school girls stole a bunch of money out of my tip jar and when you only get paid minimum wage that $30 means a lot to you. Anyway, I ran outside and saw them down the road and yelled "HEY!" they looked up, saw me, and stuffed the money back in their purses then started running. Good thing I'm really fucking fast because I ran after those bitches and when they realized I was going to catch them they stopped and threw the money on the ground and started apologizing profusely. I told them I knew there was more money in my tip jar than that, and made them empty out their fucking purses. Then I said if I ever saw them in the coffee shop again I'd call the cops.

My boss got pissed obviously and told me if that ever happened again to just let it go. I said that when she gives me a raise I would heed that advice. (I was already fed up with that job and worked at a bar where I made much more money anyway so I didn't give a fuck if I got fired. Also my boss was really annoying and kind of a pretentious hypocritical bitch)

*edit for what happened next* She knew my snarky sense of humor, and couldn't really fire me because she had just hired a bunch of new people and I was her best and most reliable employee. After she left, her good friend (who had an office upstairs) approached me and said something along the lines of "I know she's just trying to protect her business and doesn't want to be liable if anything were to happen to you, but I'm really proud of you for sticking up for yourself. Also, you're a lot tougher than I thought." and then he threw ten bucks in my tip jar! He was a really cool dude. This was almost 6 years ago, and she still calls me to fill in sometimes, I work there maybe 5-8 times a year.. mostly just because they give me free coffee and the pastries are some of the best I've ever had =)

I'm not really a fighter or an aggressive person, but when I saw those bitches had taken my money a switch in me flipped and I remember feeling the adrenaline and anger pumping through my veins. Fuck them, don't stop going out because some crappy people didn't know what was going on and were acting like idiots. I would report that store. This is a good example of mob mentality; why a *person* can be smart, but *people* are dumb panicky animals. 

One person wrongly accuses you of something, and everyone else around suddenly assumes you are guilty,  based on absolutely nothing but gut emotional reaction.  

Im sorry that happened to you.

 [deleted] Just reading this gave me anxiety......... People are stupid. Congrats, you just lived through a Seinfeld episode.  Hey. Hey you. I work from home because I have social anxiety. I handle all the stock for my family, and haven't left my flat for three years - *do not* let those ass hats deter you; You did so well on getting out, and fuck those people for giving you shit. I called in take-out from a sub shop I discovered a week prior to this incident and was feeling pretty good because the subs there are great. Walked in and the employee greeted me and was all to happy to bring me up my sub. At this point I was starving and I couldn't wait to get back home. Hastily, I pull out two bucks and throw it in the tip jar before he rings me up. Order rings up to just over $6.00. Guess who only has a 5 dollar bill left in his wallet... That's right, I had to shamelessly dig my hand straight into the tip jar and fish out the two dollars I just tipped. I was beet red for the rest of the day. [George?](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=svWjtDhGQFg) The lesson you should obviously take away from this is to never tip at starbucks. Severe social anxiety - and the panic attacks the condition gives rise to - is one of the hardest things I've ever had to deal with. To all those leaving comments like "I would have told them to shut up" or whatever: when you're having a panic attack - or feeling one take hold - most people would do literally anything to remove themselves from the situation immediately. $10? Definitely. $50? Probably. $100? Possibly. Simply nope the fuck out of there, never to return? Also extremely likely.
 I would have taken the dollar back and probably asked for a refund. Am I the only one who wants to know what you look like? Ethnicity? Gender?  I feel people behave differently in respect to others' appearance. I'm imagining a black girl getting stares from older white folk. These things happen.  I hate people of Starbucks.  This is why we should get rid of the tipping system and pay people a decent hourly wage. Starbucks employees make more than minimum wage in most places. None of them are earning server's minimum wage because they're not servers. I would of blown the fuck up on those people. Sorry about your anxiety OP!  Honestly man, you should just say fuck it in that situation. There was literally nothing you could do to convince them about what you did. May as well say oh well, and leave. You're probably never seeing any of them again and I guarantee that if you do, they won't recognize you. I deal with the same problems so I can imagine how hard that was. But you have to be humble. Accept that they have false impressions of you and don't like you. You can't please everyone.  A nice little formal complaint to their head office will make you forget all about that $10 Yah staying in is probably your best bet. 

Seriously though. What a bunch of assholes. The mob mentality is a nasty thing.  Canadian barista here. The fact that our staff was talking trash about you *in front of you* is completely unacceptable, and should not have been tolerated by their manager on duty. Please call out customer care line, they're able to look after you after experiences such as this.

In Canada it's 1-800-23LATTE (corresponding letters to numbers on your dial pad), but I'm fairly sure that in the USA it's 1-800-STARBUC. Feel free to fact-check me on that one. 

I'm so sorry you had an experience like this. Please take my word that most of us behind the counter are good people. The solution to your problem: Don't go to starbucks where the coffee is overpriced burnt garbage and the customers are rude Support local roasters and coffeeshops. The ambiance is always better and the coffee is always much better.  To be honest, i'm a guy that just prefers a medium or dark-roast black coffee. I will often go to McDonalds and just buy a large coffee there for a $1.25 or whatever it is and enjoy that on my drive to work in the morning. It tastes a lot better (at least to me) than a $3.50 coffee i could get at starbucks. Tim Horton's coffee is okay too, but there isn't one on my way to work, as I would have to go about 2 miles out of my way to get it. McDonalds coffee is actually really good. Newmans own. And you can't beat a buck fifty for a large iced. If we're talking fast food coffee... White Castle is surprisingly on point. ITT: People magically have the solution for social anxiety which is basically just telling OP to not have social anxiety. You poor thing. My social anxiety wouldve made me leave it in there in the first place though, no matter how much I needed it back Easy. Just say "this is the $10 bucks you have to pay me to drink this crap" and walk out head held high. Imagine if the delivery guy asked "what do you got b?"  Pizza guy would be posting TIFU by making three dudes heads blow up [what do you got b?](http://imgur.com/r/gifs/DWrI2JY) [what do you got b?](http://i.imgur.com/jBYifsm.gif) im too high for this shit The explosion creates a rift in the space time continuum which sets the watermelon and the area around it back a moment so that it can explode again in the same manner creating an endless loop. This doesn't sound right, but I'm too high rabbit cabbage limousine fever poster dispute It. nice word string brobrobro Do guys call other guys "b"? Is this a thing?? Yo, I'm Cuban b!  Yes, Cuban B! Where's Cuban's A and C? And why the fuck is Cuban D in the washing machine? The place was Varader, Cuba. The year of our Lord 1957. This was a time when dancing was very serious business in Cuba. There were several dance-offs where if you missed a step, your crew made sure you fell... To the bottom of the ocean. I mean these guys didn't fuck around, they sold cocaine so they could launder their dance money. 

Every year there was a national dance competition at the Mambo Club, on Autopista Sur. This year was to be the biggest production yet. All the best crews would be there, the brothers Cuba A and Cuba C, Sophia "Olive" Pluto, even the revolutionary dancer Fidel Castro would be competing.

The night kicked off with the pop of champagne bottles (and a few cherries), the room was filled with the most beautiful people in their flashiest duds, and smelled of sweet perfume and delicious cigars. 

Within a few hours, all the pretenders were eliminated from the competition. It was down to the brothers Cuba A and Cuba C vs Fidel Castro and his revolutionary dance The Macarena. Since this was to be the final dance, there was an intermission for the dancers to prepare, wagers to be made, and the stage to be set. 

This is when I made my entrance. The whole room went silent when they saw my light-up shoes, top hat, and the look in my eyes; there could be no doubt I was here on a mission of vengeance. I had been waiting my whole life for this and I knew failure wasn't an option. 

The Brothers Cuba A and Cuba C tried to stop me from competing since I showed up last minute, but I had made my registration ahead of time and Fidel withdrew from the competition when he saw my Jnco's. The judges had no choice but to let me take his place for the final dance off.

The Brothers Cuba A and Cuba C pulled out all the stops, they put all their best moves on the floor that night. Everyone knew it, you could smell their mixture of determination and desperation in the air. The crowd, full of their fans, clapped and cheered, the judges gave scored 9, 9, and 10. The Brothers Cuba A and Cuba C were smug when they passed me.

Then I, a complete stranger with no fans or support, took the stage and all was silent. The bongos began their booming, I was frozen stiff - not out of fear, but to build suspense. Then the steel drums started, I drew my maracas and exploded into a dance never before seen. My jungle dance, that I spent a lifetime mastering. 

When it was over, smoke rose from the dance floor and there was a moment of silence. Then everyone accepted what they witnessed as reality and the standing ovation was so loud my ears hurt. The judges put 10's across the board. The undefeated Brothers Cuba A and Cuba C were in a state of shock.

When the host presented the crown to me, he asked who I was and where I came from, how come no one ever saw me before. I looked into the eyes of Cuba A and Cuba C, both pairs at the same time, as I gave my answer.

"My name is Cuba B." I pointed to the brothers Cuba A and Cuba C, "Those are my brothers. When I was just a boy, they abandoned me in the jungle during a game of hide and seek. Now I have my revenge." 

My brothers left in shame, never to be seen again. I danced the night away with many moist seoritas. And that my son, is why they call me the Cuba B, I'm the King of the Rumba beat. When I play my maracas I go chick chickey boom, chick chickey boom boom. This was some absolutely fine writing. Gave me the chills multiple times for some reason. 9.95/10 you have smoked yourself retarded yes.. Cuban b I assumed his name starts with B. Like Brandon.  haha, it's kind of like slang a lot of people use when referring to their homies or friends. it means 'brother,' or 'babe,' depending who you use it to. I thought it stood for butthole, cause you only let your true homies touch your butthole. You learn a new thing every day, amiright?  Ain't no fun if the homies can't have some. Have you never seen Half Baked?

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yxBxK0dFU-w



hahahahah, holy crap, I have now realized the video doesn't even have Scarface saying B, I just assumed it did, that seems appropriate enough for a comment about Half Baked though, so I'll leave it. anything is possible on LSD, homie [deleted] BRUH too real tho Me and my friend went to the supermarket on acid. He got a bag of stuff from the bins and wrote the wrong code on the bag. When we went up to the checkout the women held up the bag and said "The numbers are wrong, they wont work", he said ".....the numbers are wrong..... what?", she said "The numbers are all wrong and so we have to start again". 

The look on his face as he turned to me, thinking that he had somehow single-handedly destroyed our entire civilization's system of counting was beyond priceless.  The numbers mason what do they mean! It started in Cuba, bay of pigs. Oh my god, the supermarket seriously freaked me out once when I was younger. I just remember walking down the frozen food aisle and the lights had motion sensors so they automatically came on when you walked by. When it first started happening, I though, "OK, keep it cool," and I speed-walked to get whatever food I was getting, but I felt like I was having spotlights put on me and everyone was watching me (it was late-night and I was the only one in the store), so ran the rest of the way out of the aisle. I totally didn't keep it cool. My favorite acid moment in a supermarket was walking through the pet food aisle. The cans of cat food had cats heads that grew out of the cans and all stared at me, occasionally blinking.  Fortunately my non-tripping friends eventually saved me, apparently I'd been there for about 20mins staring back at the cats completely silent. So you might still be staring at the cat food today if your friends didn't save you? How could you not keep it cool in the freezer section? So, your supermarket is dark unless someone is in the aisle? Weird. The supermarket I work at is like that. The huge ceiling lights are on but to save some energy the lights inside the freezers with doors are off until you walk down the aisle. The freezers with stuff like frozen pizzas and ice cream.  I grew up in a shitty West Texas town without much to do. We dosed up one night and decided we needed OJ at 3:00 in the morning. They had just finished building a new Super Walmart in town.  It had only been open a day or two at that point. Sometime during our exploration they decided to test out all of the red spinning lights that the cashiers use to summon a manager to their register. Im sure it was obvious how fucked up we were, six of us mouths gaped, tripping balls at 3:00 AM with a half dozen gallon jugs of OJ and a carton cigarettes, surrounded by flashing red lights. I'm telling you man, the weirdest (real) shit happens when you're high. Similar thing happened to me when I was tripping.

I was wearing a hat, and my friend tries to take it off me, and I go "i don't know what's under there!" as a joke (like the characters from fat albert not knowing what was under their clothes).

he just looks at me and goes "R3Mx is under there"  and in that instance my mind exploded. I was just like "... woha wait what!?" That beats the hell out of getting drunk at the store going home to pass out then waking up to make breakfast only to realize you bought Fruit Loops, Kahlua, and a hot wheels car. One time... Not in band camp....18yrs ago... I dropped a bit too early before a party....  Needed cigs... Ask my b to stop by the supermarket.... Walking around in a hoodie and very big pants.... Proceed to decide that it will be a good idea to jack a pack... I grab one (they were just out there like cucumbers back then)..... So here I am walking around being slick, fumbling to take the packaging off and tearing off the bar code strip because obviously that's what beeps and because fuck de polees... Big hoodie on my head... Walk the fuck out of that dump.... No vibes at that stop and shop.... Get to the car feeling like king shit... Tap tap on my shoulder.... What'rms up officer? Come with me.... Cold piss exits... Takes me to the security room... Says look at this dumbass... At this point properly zooted... Things are MOVING.. sitting looking at 30 screens of surveillance LIKE WHOA thanks for the show maan...  He just gives me a proper scare and doesn't call it in, I played it cool like something cool... Party was hot.  ... i don't even smoke ................................... That's basically what I do anyway when ordering pizza, just without the acid. Can confirm, am delivery guy. That's an interesting name there delivery GUY. What if that was his real name, huh? People can't help it if they were born that way, man.  Caitlyn Jenner #topical # tropical # popsicle ####**typical.**
 #*BIBLICAL!* Caitlyn Trans-Jenner 