&gt; He stated that homosexuality was worse than mass murder, because it was to blame for Noahs flood.

Wat?

Edit: He "justifies" his ridiculous claim [here](http://www.rightwingwatch.org/content/lively-wedding-songs-homosexual-marriage-flood-end-times):

&gt; We need to remember that in the time leading up to the Flood what the rabbis teach about the last straw for God before He brought the Flood was when they started **writing wedding songs to homosexual marriage** and Jesus said that youll know the End Times because it will be like the days of Noah. Theres never been a time in the history of the world since before the Flood when homosexual marriage has been open and celebrated, and thats another sign that I believe that were close to the end.

Another relevant gem [here](http://www.rightwingwatch.org/content/scott-lively-homosexuality-worse-murder):

&gt; When you look in the Bible, there are sins that you would think of as worse, you know, murder or mass murder, but what does it come down to? Leviticus 18 tells the Hebrews exactly what it is that God identifies as the most rebellious behavior, the behavior that causes the land to actually vomit out its inhabitants and every item on that list, except for child sacrifice, is sexual perversion, and child sacrifice is often a form of sexual perversion. &gt; child sacrifice is often a form of sexual perversion.

Didn't someone else send his child to be sacrificed for all of mankind? Which is why so many priests are perverts!  See, were getting to the bottom of this. More like getting in the bottom of this. hot bottom action No child's behind left. I wan't this conversation on a billboard in Alabama. Odd, I live in Alabama.  Let me put it up on Milton McGregor's land right next to the "Go to church or the Devil will get you!" sign. Wow, I'll put $100 toward that.

Just make sure you can do it anonymously. We don't need you getting lynched. I've got another $100 on it. I bet we could make this a thing if we really wanted to. Hello fellow alabamian Come to think of it, I think it was that same fucker behind those floods too. And demanded someone else sacrifice his son . . . 

"God said 'Abraham kill me your son.' Abe said ' God, you must be puttin' me on.'" Wasn't there another one that wasn't stopped too? Something about a dude promising to sacrifice the first thing he sees when he gets home if YHWH causes him to win a battle, then it turns out to be his daughter or something?  Yes, that'd be the story of [Jephthah](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jephthah) (he likes to just goy by Jeph...)

For some reason less well-known than the story of Abraham. It's a weird one, but I think the difference is in Jephthah's case, the irresponsible vow was blurted out by an idiotic human, but in Abraham's story, the idiotic command supposedly came from G-D.

(I've always had a sneaking suspicion that Jephthah knew exactly what he was doing. Maybe he found his daughter annoying. Or had something to cover up...) Well God came up with sex and genitals so I think he's the biggest perv of them all. Gotta be a real lewd dude to think up a dick from nothing. Yeah, he literally put a pleasure button in mens' asses. God knows what's up.  For a act he could have just forgiven...Instead he sacrificed himself to Himself. Honest question:

So the Bible says God gave his only son to save the world.  But before he "gave" his son, Jesus was here on Earth with us.  Afterward God "gave" him up for us, he was in heaven with God.  So didn't God really just take his son back?  I never got the reasoning. I've been having this argument for years.  The way I see it, Jesus did suffer for 3 days.  However, after that, he went to Heaven as the right hand of God and was praised by billions of people.  Not bad for 3 days of pain.  As to the sacrifice of God, I'd say all he lost was 30 odd years of not having his son by his side.  Maybe that is punishment? Forgetting to factor in the heaven to earth, time-dilation aren't you? I did forget that Jesus went to the United States for a bit. Well also the whole "thousands of years is a blink in the dye of God" tidbit and 30 years is nothing. Like isn't the time conversion something like 1 day is 1000 years in God time? Or something like that... He's got every superpower. There's no point in debating what he can do according to Chrisitans. Meanwhile his writers really are shit at crafting a decent story arc. When you believe that hurricanes are formed because one guy put his dick in another guy's pooper, this is what he assumed happened ~6 thousand years ago to cause the flood of Noah.

Their justification for why it doesn't keep happening "because God said he would never destroy the Earth like that again". The Butterfuck Effect *slow clap*  Personally, if I fucked a butterfly it wouldn't be flying away anytime soon ;) ladies. And he gave us a sign that he would never do it again.  The rainbow!  Coincidence?  I think not. Where do I sign up to be gay? I want to control the weather too! You just have to choose. Simple as that. Oh god that's perfect. Introducing Cobra's new Weather Dominator.... I KNEW there was something up with Destro!   ..and Zartan.  And Cobra Commander and Tomax and Xamot.   Hmm, also Snake Eyes and Shipwreck, Flint, and Sgt Slaughter.  I would think the weather on GI JOE would be constant floods everywhere! 1 thrust for rain; 2 for wind. stick it to the drought by stickin' it in a buddy. sign me up. Storm from the X-men... My wildest fantasies make sense now.  It comes from the fact that according to the bible homosexualality was rampant at the time.  Since they think the bible was written by god and not some homophobic pedophiles they believe it. The issue is, Genesis doesn't really mention homosexuality in conjunction with the flood.  It mentions the Earth being corrupt and full of violence, makes some vague references to everyone's thoughts being evil all the time, and mentions the "sons of God" mating with the "daughters of men" (so presumably something heterosexual) to produce Nephilim (a type of creature from ancient Hebrew mythology that we don't actually know very much about at all).  You get some references to homosexuality in regards to Sodom and Gomorrah later on in Genesis, but even the close connection between sexuality and the cities of the plain doesn't really come in until the New Testament Epistle of Jude.  It's just not something that gets mentioned as a cause of natural disaster very often, despite the fascination with it among Evangelical preachers now. They wreck diablo that's all we need to know about them, now gimme the loot. [deleted] Ever notice the overlap between tornado alley and the Bible belt? Just sayin'. Yeah, if God's wrath is in the weather, the Bible Belt must really be fucking up.  If God said that, then aren't we all good? Why are they still freaking out?

They should just be content we will all
Be in hell after we die. So will they probably, just a different one  &gt;Theres never been a time in the history of the world since before the Flood when homosexual marriage has been open and celebrated

He might want to do some of that 'learning' I keep hearing about

http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/History_of_same-sex_unions For real, that was my first thought. What a pathetically ignorant way he must look at the world to think that this is some "modern evil" bullshit. Remember: God had nothing to do with it. It's was totally out of his hands; the gays forced him to kill everyone. "I can't help it! I'm powerless!"

-God That's because he can't find his "higher power" to believe in. He should work on making amends. If God has no God of his own, is he an atheist? 

The creator of the creator could have had a creator.  It's magic turtles all the way down. &gt;It's *gay* magic turtles all the way down.

FTFY It was the fall of man that caused hurricanes and floods to enter the world, and God can't stop those because that would be interfering with free will. You know, the free will of the weather. [deleted] [deleted] And in other parts of the world, earthquakes are blamed on people stripping naked on a mountain. Religion breeds nuts of all kinds. Correct.  A country that we do business with has it's prime minister convinced some naked people on a mountain caused an Earthquake and as such is holding these citizens hostage and has removed their ability to leave the country.  I'd say we should cease all business with a country run by someone of such low intelligence, but then we get into the issue of having to install our own president that doesn't believe in magic sky creatures.

The reason why Religion continues to have this sort of hold on people is because we let it.  Never has it been scarier to think that the majority of world leaders believe in magical creatures and ultimately say they are living to appease these creatures should scare every intelligent person on this planet to their core.  You can be certain their will be another major war amongs "civilized" nations and that the war will involve religious politics.  We as a species refuse to grow up and our hallmark in this universe is going to be that we spent a large part of our existence killing each other over things that don't exist. I used to be a more passive atheist (let people believe want they want to believe) but more and more I find it deplorable that we say it is ok to allow people to continue passing on this superstitious nonsense as truth to their offspring. If religions truly didn't affect people's rational actions and thoughts then I would be ok with saying they are harmless, but time and time again, it's crap like this that makes it ever more apparent that this is not the case. This! Yes.  I kind of like the idea of a country cutting financial and diplomatic ties with another until their citizens make a better choice in who leads them.  Not "we'll pick for you," just here's what's fundamentally wrong with the one you got.  See you after the next election. Pat Robertson blamed the Haiti earthquake on voodoo.

Meanwhile, more than 200 years earlier some Portuguese dude was saying "nope, shit happens, so let's clean up and see what we can do to fortify the city against it for the next time. Oh, and while we're at it, find some science guys to investigate the ground and see why it *really* opened up."

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/1755_Lisbon_Earthquake

Why are we going backwards? I really dont understand how this is not considered a mental illness.  I mean, I get that some people will come to the conclusion that 'god did it' is the answer to some things, but this is a few steps past religion and on to full mental deficiency.  Im glad he will go to trial. Maybe the end of times is the end of Christianity (and other ridiculous superstitions) that will usher in 1000 years of peace.  I'd be happy for 1000 years of the scientific method. &gt;  the rabbis teach about the last straw for God before He brought the Flood was when they started writing wedding songs to homosexual marriage

They do?  What rabbis would those be, I wonder.  I ask partly because I never heard of such a thing before and also because in the Jewish tradition sodomy has little if anything to do with the Sodom story.  

Theres never been a time in the history of the world since before the Flood when homosexual marriage has been open and celebrated

Aside from the flood never happened, that other bit isn't true either.  If it _were_ true, the question of why the emperors Constantiantus II and Constans were obliged to insert a prohibition into the Theodosian Code to prohibit same-sex marriage and furthermore ordering that those who were so married were to be executed.  

And it's not like one needs to research these things heavily, it's even in the fucking wiki fer chrissake.   http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/History_of_same-sex_unions   
 I really have a hard time accepting people really believe that stuff.  I'm waiting for one of these religious nuts to break character and admit they were doing a Colbert like routine all this time, amazed at how long they could get away with it. I think if you're at a point where you've actually gone to another country to help craft legislation about it, and are now on trial for crimes against humanity, you're not just kidding around. They really believe this stuff. &gt; writing wedding songs to homosexual marriage

So it's Cher's fault? The trial of Scott Lively has not started yet, Sexual Minorities Uganda v. Scott Lively.  
  
The case is still ['In discovery'](http://ccrjustice.org/home/what-we-do/our-cases/sexual-minorities-uganda-v-scott-lively) as mentioned a few times below, and withstanding any unusual events or requests, hopefully the trial starts Q1 2016 Dude's throwing buzzwords out there like Cosmo.

 Didn't God principally send the flood to wipe out the Nephilum? Mythologically speaking, it's fairly easy to kill a lot of humans, but it would probably take something fairly cataclysmic to kill a race of giant human-angel hybrids. Let's just play with our minds a little bit.

What if... A massive flood does come. Like Noah style. How... eh, Fucked would we be? If that happens, God's a whiny douchebag. Just sayin. Roast me for eternity, sure, doesn't really matter much at this point; but my god what a whiny little pecker. &gt;He stated that homosexuality was worse than mass murder, because it was to blame for Noahs flood.

Well, even his justification is wrong. In his belief system, Yahweh was to blame for the great flood, not homosexuality. It's not like gay people have the power to control the weather. &gt; Theres never been a time in the history of the world since before the Flood when homosexual marriage has been open and celebrated

Guess he doesn't know much about Roman history... Fuck people who believe in ghosts Let's not forget: He ran for Gov. of MA Alabama, I could see. But this guy's gotta be cracked in the head to run for governor of fucking *Massachusetts.*

FFS, we have Provincetown and a nearby village called *Gay Head.* Flood of fabulous?  This dude is sooooooo gay Can anyone corroborate this rabbinical theology? Good. Seriously, fuck that guy. Fuck him, right in the ass.

edit: i hate to sound ungrateful, but gold is a waste of money.  i think ellen pao is a scammy cunt, and i don't like seeing money going into her pockets.  donate to a charity that helps kids or something, please.   But in an unpleasant way.  Oh he will enjoy it, which will make him hate himself, which is an even better punishment. What was the Clive Barker story about the homophobic cop who got raped in an alley way and hated himself because he had an erection the whole time?


Barker fucking rocks. It was a story in "The Inhuman Condition" (or "The Books of Blood") and I believe it was called "The Age of Desire". Thank you.  Read those in high school! (A long time ago.) I've never read that story, but having read other Clive Barker fiction I totally believe that he wrote something like that. just in case anyone didn't already know, the sad fact is, most rape victims experience sexual arousal during their rape, as a large part of arousal is involuntary physiological responses. this inevitably ends up making the rape that much more traumatic though, because it is as though even your own body is acting against you. this is an egodystonic effect similar to that which is experienced by people with severe OCD or gender dysphoria. phantom limb syndrome is also in a similar category.  Jesus Christ... That's a bit much. 

Fucked up part is I read that book and didn't remember that story in it. Like with a pineapple Pointy end first. There's a non-pointy end? There's a slightly pointy end and an extremely pointy end.

I'm talking about the extremely pointy end. Den eat da poo poo Eat da poo poo! I bet he's the kind of guy that'll fuck a guy in the ass and not even have the decency to give him a reach around.  As a gay, I appreciate and agree with the general sentiment of what you're saying, even if I find the physics of doing this quite complicated Just curious - why is Ellen Pao a scammy cunt? biggest gay bashers tend to be the biggest self-hating homos. dems the facts.  I doubt that edit will exist for a long time. I'm counting down till shadowban.   he would enjoy that. I love when this is top comment. Post like this, I open up comments hoping this single syllable reigns. The community is in agreement and no verbose reason as to why.  Scott Lively was born and raised in the village of Shelburne Falls, Massachusetts, the oldest of six children. He became an alcoholic aged 12 as a means of coping with an unhappy family situation. When Lively was 16, his father was committed to a mental institution, never to return. After graduating from high school in 1976, Lively spent the next 10 years "drifting around the United "States, often homeless, sometimes sleeping under bridges and begging for spare change on street-corners." Lively has stated in his autobiography: "I visited every one of the 48 continental states and logged over 25,000 miles by thumb, bus and train in my wandering. I didnt learn to drive a car until I was 25"

I don't claim to know the facts, but I feel like there is a very high statistic probability that he was raped multiple times while he was homeless at any age. The church helped him get off the streets, they shared their view against it and the rest rolled onward. This dude probably experienced some horrific shit, but I don't think it excuses his actions at all and "Good" is the calmest way of saying "fuck that guy" as a group.  or he's closeted and hates himself for selling his ass to get across the country. Literally the exact thought that popped into my mind when I read the headline  Took the word right out of my brain. What does it even mean though? Nothing comes from this right? Well, let's just say he'll have an *awfully* hard time explaining it on his next job application. Ooh, crimes against humanity, you say? Ze reich has been looking fr qualified candidates like you! Wilkommen aboard! I will never understand how someone can have so much hate for a group of people.  It's ignorance. Willful ignorance in some cases. But because of one reason or another they don't understand. People always fear what they don't understand.  I can understand ignorance but how someone can just hate, and I mean wish harm, on another group of people is beyond me. This dude has helped kill humans for no other reason than being born. That shit boggles my mind. Because he firmly believes that if he doesn't hate gay people that he'll be sent to hell when he dies. I respectfully disagree. I would posit that this gentleman is almost certainly homosexual, and was raised in a climate that repeatedly and vehemently told him that homosexuality is base and degenerate. The type of cognitive dissonance that must be plaguing him on a daily basis is the stuff of nightmares. I shudder to think of the demons that keep this guy awake at night.

Please note, I am NOT defending his actions or even calling for sympathy for him. I am simply stating that his particular brand of hatefulness is, in my opinion, based on profound psychological sickness born of self loathing. I would lay even money on the fact that if he were to come out of the closet and get some sweet sweet man-on-man lovin', he would be far happier. (NOT sarcastic) i think your right there is a track record of closeted gay politicians who are republican voting against anything 'they' even think might be perceived as  a gay rights issue. Even things like more funding for AIDS research which obviously affects everyone etc.

http://www.pensitoreview.com/2007/08/27/self-loathing-craigs-homophobic-record-2/

http://www.ranker.com/list/top-10-anti-gay-activists-caught-being-gay/joanne?page=2

when a politician has a 100% anti-gay voting record it really begs the question of why.  Sure it does, but the answer to why is more often genuine homophobia than it is a denial of accepting their sometimes homosexual identity. Most of them really are just straight and also happen to hate homosexuals.

Being a closet homosexual may be the motivation. Or, being a straight fundamentalist christian is. It's sometimes the former, sure, but it's usually going to be the latter. I agree that the resistance to gay rights is almost exclusively coming from religion. I am probably taking it for granted that most people realize this, which is probably why i didn't mention it at all.

I think it takes a lot of personal anger to actively campaign against a group of people that are not out to harm you. So that is why i think its some personal ( closeted tormented gay person in denial ) reason for those that are rabidly anti-gay , to me they are playing out their own mental issues out in the world. 

A politician with a 100% anti gay voting record

a religious person holding up a 'hateful sign' opposing gay rights

these kinds of people are going quite a bit further than merely thinking being gay is bad.

The area of USA i live in has a high LDS population the degree of demonstration against gay rights that was seen from that community we know why there was so much of it, cause their clergy basically ordered them to protest. 

I have my own pet theory on why the LDS community is so opposed to gay marriage it might seem a bit nuts to some people but its at least possible i think

1. Regular LDS church had to give up polygamy for utah to be come a state ( 1896 i think ) 

2. the fundamentalist LDS church has almost the same views as the regular LDS church except for 'polygamy'

3. how many christian sources have we seen appose gay marriage on the slippery slop argument, what is next polygamy, people marrying family members animals etc.

Well if polygamy is legalized wouldn't the fundamentalist church simply out breed the regular LDS church and there goes non-polygamist LDS church. But then again its a lot easier just to say hatred never makes any sense etc. just my thoughts.  I don't understand how what you said is much different than what I said. &gt; It's ignorance.

It is not ignorance.  It is hate.  You don't have to hate the things you are ignorant of.  You can just accept that you are ignorant and ignore them.  As soon as you move to hate you have moved beyond ignorance.

&gt; People always fear what they don't understand.

People do not always fear what they don't understand.  People sometimes fear what they don't understand.  For example, I don't understand women, but I don't fear them ... much.  Certainly not enough to hate them.

This guy hates gays because he believes that he should hate them.  His only ignorance is that he believes this book that tells him to punish gay people.  That is not fear or ignorance of gays, that is ignorance of the 2000 years of progress and understanding that has occurred since his book was written.

He is probably gay himself, or at least bisexual, but afraid to admit it and self loathing.  Not ignorance, hate. &gt; His only ignorance is that he believes this book that tells him to punish gay people

This isn't necessarily the cause of his hate. Homophobes generally turn to religion to justify their hatred, since almost every other aspect of modern society repudiates homophobia. Same as the KKK. While religion was their main excuse, they were racist anyway.

This isn't to say I'm defending religion at all. It gives refuge to, and enables, beliefs that society abhors. I just don't think he hates gays because the bible, I think he hates gays anyway. The hate they have for others is equal to the hate they have for themselves.. secrets suck. ah, religion. It wouldn't surprise me if he was secretly gay himself.  Bigotry isn't rational.  He's probably very ashamed of being a part of it.  Self hate + closet lifestyle Probably he's suppressed his own homosexuality.  I'm thrilled to hear this, but I'm having trouble corroborating this with any recent news. That's because this happened more than six months ago...

http://www.splcenter.org/blog/2014/12/08/federal-appeals-court-says-lawsuit-against-hate-group-leader-scott-lively-can-proceed/ Ah ha! I thought as much. So this is very good news, but still old news. Agreed.  Very good news!

But I can't help but think that the next greedy power and money hungry thing is already beginning to implement their plans to do something similar and despicable.

Just hurts my heart. Or they'll do it gleefully, praising their lord for the opportunity to martyr themselves in the name of their religious bigotry. Big the difference in martyrdom between jihadists and the U.S. Christian right. One will die for their cause, one just wants to 'kill the fags' and scurry away to their hole. And it was a lawsuit. The title makes it sound like he could go to prison or something.  here's a case timeline

http://ccrjustice.org/home/what-we-do/our-cases/sexual-minorities-uganda-v-scott-lively same, thats what I was trying to find, but got nothing so far The only time I've heard of Scott Lively was through [Last Week Tonight with John Oliver](https://youtu.be/G2W41pvvZs0?t=3m55s) back in June of last year [deleted] It's not a criminal trial. He's being sued.  Is crimes against humanity not a criminal offense?

Seriously though I don't know, but when "crime" is in the charge... I explained more here:

http://www.reddit.com/r/atheism/comments/391qmf/american_who_helped_craft_ugandas_kill_the_gays/crzpbsa

Tbh I probably should have explained that in my first comment because it's definitely not obvious. my bad. TIL you can sue someone for crimes againts humanity. But can we sue people for cards against humanity? Heck this P.O.S. will probably enjoy living in a caliphate.

Homophobia, misogyny and anti-semitism are common to both xtianity and pisslam. So I'm officially taking bets:

A: He gets caught with child porn - 2:1

B: He gets caught with a gay prostitute - 2:1

C: He gets caught with a gay child prostitute - 7:1 Unless I'm misreading, this is a civil lawsuit, not a criminal prosecution. Better than nothing, but not what this guy deserves. I know. He deserves to live a long time surrounded by happy LGBT couples. I read headlines like these and it takes me a moment to remember that they are talking about me.  

How can anyone care so much about who I love? Who I crush on? Who makes me turned on? 

Like I even have a choice.  Wish I did.  

He wants me dead? Me? I was just going about my day.  Went to work.  Did dishes.  Watered my flowers.  Fed my cats.   And he would kill me.  How?

Like, do I get a warning? Is he planning in ripping me out of my bed? Who notifies my next of kin? Do I get any last words? 

I can't help who I fall in love with.  

I think I deserve the opportunity to kill him before he kills me.  

Armed combat? 

The thing is, I don't give a shit who he loves.  

It could be a llama or his dog or a table or a pie.  

I don't care about him at all unless he is harming others.   

Since he is though, and since he has made it personal, I reserve my right to be satisfied in any restraint of his actions and if I were in a place to, I would restrain his actions as well.  

Not just for me, but more for the ones I love.  I would protect their right to love beyond my own.  

Come at me face to face, motherfucker.  
Let us see how you do.    They don't see us as people. 

They have reduced us to a sex act, anal sex. A sex act that not even all gay people practice, a sex act that for no straight person would define them but for us it does. A sex act they find gross. 

They tell each other lies that comfort them, about how we do not fall in love, we fall in lust. About how what we do is "unnatural" and nothing more than "romanticised parafilia". About how we "recruit children" and are who we are to be rebellious. In their eyes it is not their fault, it is ours, because there is something wrong with us. 

They are scum.   it's sad what people do to people they fear or don't understand. it's sad that people don't WANT to understand, it's sad people don't WANT to not hate someone who is different. sometimes I think the whole human race should have just died off years ago They will now force HIM to eat DA poopoo! Like ice cream. This guy says that  Homosexuality is not just another sin, it is the sin that defines rebellion against God, the outer edge of rebellion against God"

So he doesn't know his bible very well. The bible clearly states that the worst sin is doubting the holy spirit as in Luke 12:10 and Mark 3:29. Sodomy is just another sin described among the 613 commandments. No worse than wearing mixed cloth or getting a tattoo. Totally forgivable if you're so inclined. Not many people seek forgiveness for eating a pulled pork sandwich these days so being gay is probably okay with God too. &gt; 613 commandments.

Whoah! Is there a complete list with references of these somewhere? Under "Maimonides' List":

http://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/613_commandments [deleted] It's crazy how one person could hold so much influence on over people like that. I've noticed that a lot of Christianstuff like to organize trips to Uganda, I thinknow it's to take advantage of those people there. Exactly.
Here in the states people are actually pushing back against these hardcore idiots because we've known about them for a long time and have things like the internet and literature readily available to us. Unfortunately, in a third world people don't have access to the same things we do. It makes the whole situation even more infuriating and I feel for the Ugandan people who have to endure such unjust atrocities. Five bucks says this guy is completely in the closet. no offense but is there an actual news outlet article for this? Can anyone explain how a civil suit works for "Crimes Against Humanity"? it sounds all well and good but makes no sense, and clicking through this article goes to another blog which sources a 2014 article pre-appeal being denied. As someone who's spent a significant amount of time in Uganda, and sat face-to-face with activists, politicians, and religious leaders in-country, I'm still blown away at the utter bullshit surrounding this legislation.

I've literally talked with people at every level of leadership and am absolutely astounded it continues to be propagated forward. (and the reasons why are even more infuriating...) He will turn out to be gay... Uh, so like, when are we gonna try Cheney, Rumsfeld, and Bush for authorizing torture? American evangelicals conquered Uganda because they were an extremely poor country that spoke English. That's basically it. People hate on Uganda, but it's entirely America to blame. Having spent much time there, every white person you see is a missionary. It's depressing. They are a country and a people with much to offer. Met this guy multiple times as part of my job working for a gubernatorial campaign. He was super nice in person (likely because I am white, male, and straight), but when he spoke to his supporters he preached some of the most vile hatred I have ever heard. I'm from Texas, and this was in Mass, and it still shocked me.  Good fuck that bitch.  You wanna play Ugandan politics then move to Uganda and become a citizen, otherwise shut the fuck up. But... Why is Tom Hardy's MySpace pic the thumbnail? Are we taking bets on how long it takes until this guy comes out of the closet? According to him homosexuality is something "that God has deemed a more offensive abomination than mass killings", and yet the 10 commandments mention murder but not homosexuality. Fun fact: the first people around the Ugandan area accepted gays till the British went there and taught them Christianity. Good. This piece of shit actually had the gall to run for governor of Massachusetts -- *Massachusetts!* -- last year, purely on the same kill-the-gays platform he's had so much "success" (choke) with in Africa. While everyone else was talking about jobs and the economy, this moron wanted to make Provincetown a prison colony and restore the "Gay State" to its Puritan roots.

Apparently he wasn't satisfied that Texas leads the way in burning witches at the stake. I bet this guy has a tiny noodle, and likes little boys. Dude is clearly obsessed with dick. Yes, devout Christianity is a crime against humanity. No secret and not new information.  I'm with you on this. Kind of like how middle eastern nations surf more gay porn per capita than anywhere else. They have something to hide so outwardly they crank the hate up to 11 either out of shame or in an attempt to show the world that they are not what they hate. 

"Maybe if I preach killing all the gays it will divert attention from me being gay! Yes! What a flawless plan! (insert religious mantra here: allahu akbar, praise jesus, etc) &gt;he stated that homosexuality was worse than mass murder, because it was to blame for Noahs flood.

Does this explain why there's flooding in Texas and California is suffering a record drought? "Holy dog shit, Texas! Only steers and queers come from Texas, private Cowboy! and you don't much look like a steer to me so that kinda narrows it down!"

so Sgt Hartman was right! Just a reminder, Chick-fil-a paid him to do this. Source please.  I'd genuinely like to read more about this. I don't know how trustworthy [snopes](http://m.snopes.com/whats-new/) is, but they declare this to be [True](http://www.snopes.com/politics/sexuality/chickfila.asp).

Though it is a bit murky and not a direct financial donation here is the exact wording from Snopes: 
&gt; Some readers asked, "Did Chick-fil-A really spend millions lobbying Congress not to condemn Ugandas 'Kill the Gays' bill"? We found no evidence that Chick-fil-A itself spent money (let alone millions) lobbying Congress to prevent that body from issuing a condemnation of a controversial Ugandan legislative bill which carried the death penalty for some homosexual acts. Some sources reported that the Family Research Council (FRC), one of the organizations to which Chick-fil-A donates through its WinShape corporate charity foundation, filed a report stating that it had spent $25,000 lobbying Congress against H.R. 1064, a resolution seeking to "express the sense of the House of Representatives" that Uganda's proposed Anti-Homosexuality Bill "threatens the protection of fundamental human rights." However, the FRC said that although they did perform lobbying activities regarding H.R. 1064, they did not support the Uganda bill or the death penalty for homosexuality, and their lobbying efforts were not aimed at killing the Congressional resolution but rather at changing its language "to remove sweeping and inaccurate assertions that homosexual conduct is internationally recognized as a fundamental human right."
Read more at http://www.snopes.com/politics/sexuality/chickfila.asp#vkeTV0KVa4XxSBKY.99 So, they're still shitty people, just not *that* shitty. Probably because of their donations to Exodus International and Focus on the Family:

http://www.lgbtqnation.com/2012/07/this-is-why-chick-fil-a-sucks/ Not sure if you're being sarcastic or not, so I have to ask: is that true? It is technically [not true](http://www.lgbtqnation.com/2012/07/this-is-why-chick-fil-a-sucks/). Chick-Fil-A gave money to its charitable foundation, which gave $1,000 to a third party whose directors have worked with Scott Lively in the past. It's also worth noting that [Lively called for a boycott of Chick-Fil-A last year](http://www.thenewcivilrightsmovement.com/anti-gay-pastor-scott-lively-calls-for-boycott-of-chick-fil-a/news/2014/03/24/84765) because CFA's foundation stopped sending money to the more controversial groups on their charity list. ...but the Ugandans who actually made it happen aren't?  What the fuck! Hard to try an Ugandan in an American court of law...This guy is a citizen so he can be tried.  Some more recent updates:

http://ccrjustice.org/home/what-we-do/our-cases/sexual-minorities-uganda-v-scott-lively

The most recent event seems to be from April 9:

http://ccrjustice.org/sites/default/files/attach/2015/04/Memorandum%20of%20Law%20in%20Support%20of%20Motion%20for%20Subpoena.pdf
 God kills people because he has something up his ass, not because we do. He'll come out of the closet after a few years in prison. I absolutely GUARANTEE you that this guy is gay. In which case, I think he'll enjoy prison, but even if he doesn't go to prison, it's only a matter of time before he's caught soliciting 12 year boys on the internet.

It's all too predictable. He's a sociopath, plain and simple. This guy is so deep in the closet, he's in Narnia talking to animals.  What about Sen. Inhofe? &gt;"the gay movement is an evil institution" whose goal is "to defeat the marriage-based society and replace it with a culture of sexual promiscuity."

Where do I sign up? But they "eat da poo poo..."
 i'm pretty sure this guy was partially responsible for funding the eat da poo poo guy Fuck this guy. Most of the Christians I know would also say this. There's always a few nut jobs out there. America is busy trashing secular public schools and replacing them with institutions run by hateful morons like this. Lol. I hope you like your "reforms" America! This is about time. This religious zealously is bringing death and destruction and pain to the world. I am finally glad that these preachers and people of "God" are finally having to answer for the bile they spread across the globe. Its not their country but hey feel the need to push their weird beliefs upon them. Im just tired of the division of peoples, we are all one. anybody know if Scott Lively was part of an organization that was receiving roundabout funding by Chick Fil A back during the boycott? Well them pedo jesuit priests that were boy fucking galore in Uganda probably did not give homosexuals a good name in the region. 

So make sure to prosecute them fuckers also


 Send that motherfucker straight to hell. I can't wait until his Grindr profile gets found Have we not learned from history? 90% chance he's got some seriously disturbing skeletons in his closet... or basement. Countdown to this guy being caught with a rent boy in 3... 2... I remember that Catholic school made me think pre marital sex was worse than murder when I was a kid/teen. I wonder how long it will be until it comes out that he has paid male prostitutes.. I don't like ad hom attacks, but he really looks like a smug bastard in that photo.

As a member of humanity, I have standing, and I hope he is found guilty and duly punished. This asshole is going to say he's being persecuted as a christian. What a freak, encouraging impressionable minds to hate their fellow brothers and sisters.  He is absolute garbage, I'd vote for his death. How does a dingbat like that find an audience to take him seriously and give him that kind of power? What the hell is wrong with some people? 

He should be kidnapped and sold off to some gay BDSM sex ring. Well, he did have to go to Uganda... The Holocaust was justified, Hitler was just practicing his "religious freedom" There are seriously people willing to defend the duggars?  My religious nutjob aunt has been posting a lot of support for the Duggars, cuz reasons. Unfriend her. If a family member is ok with someone molesting their sister/daughter/niece then think about what they would do for you in that situation.  That's the kind of family member that tells you to keep your mouth shut/or that you're a liar because they don't want to cause waves in the family. *^hissss* This has literally happened in my family.  I no longer have contact with any of them. My 7 year late confession was never spoken of afterward. Life went on as if nothing happened. I no longer have contact with my family either. Right there with you buddy. Cut them off and haven't missed them since. 6 years and counting. I just cut mine off a year ago. I have no regrets. Holy shit. I wasn't sexually abused but my stepdad beat the unholy fuck out of me regularly for no reason and my mom to this day pretends it never happened. After finding out this is a common religious nutjob reaction I'll probably cut the few ties I have left with her too.  Goddamn.  I was sexually abused as a child as well and when I tried to tell my family they called me a liar and told me I had a vivid imagination. You have to do what's in the best interest of your emotional safety and for me that was cutting off my family.  I just cut mine off a year ago. I have no regrets. happened in my daughter's step family. They treated her like a lieing shit because her step father's son was a  "good Christian".

Until he got caught 20 years later. They still can't find the decency to apologize. Hard to find decency when you're none too decent in the first place.  Imagine what they would be like it they didn't have their religion to hold them back. Probably the same. I really doubt anyone these days is thinking, "oh man... I *really* want to molest that kid...yup, I'm gonna do it. Oh, shit! I can't, I'm a Christian. Gosh darnit!"

People are going to do what they want, their religion isn't going to hold them back, it's only going to "redeem" them for their "repentance" once they get caught.  I guess my point is that a lot of these people go on and on about "if Jesus isnt real then why don't I just go and kill someone right now".  (yes, I have heard that argument more than once).  They seem to promote the idea that it is their religious values that stop them from being sinners.

This rhetoric is used in politics, too.  Bill O'reilly, for example is always saying that if people are provided welfare then they will have no motivation to work or improve themselves.  I always wonder if he means that if he was given a welfare check each month if he would just lay on the couch from now on.  I don't know if you've seen True Detective, but Matthew Mcconaughey sums up my thoughts on it pretty nicely. I've never actually seen a character on TV or in a movie that so closely matched my ideas about the world, philosophy, and religion, I'm just not quite as serious or provocative as he is though. But, I think you may like this scene. 

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_RfUj09pWfM


*Edit* - I think if you were to use O'Reilly's own rhetoric back on him, ask him if he'd just sit around all day collecting a check his head would probably explode. He just spouts out rhetorical talking points, it's not like there's anyone there to actually have a discussion with him, and where there is he flips out and screams over them. But if you were to really force him to answer the question he'd probably come up with some bullshit about how *he's* not the kind of man to take it lying dying down, he'd be pounding the pavement every day looking for a job, hell he's got *principles* and he's a job creator, blah blah blah. Not to mention that if it weren't for Fox News, his writers, his producers, his PR rep, his publicist, etc etc, he'd just be a crazy person yelling at people on the street. If anything religion would give them a platform to rationalize their actions. I'm a devout Christian, I'm also in to molesting little children, either God made them that way and it's okay because well why else would God instill them with such intrusive thoughts or it's a test that they failed to overcome in which they can repent and go to heaven anyway. Religiosity almost makes it okay to be immoral in certain circumstances. Oh.. The paradox. Yeah, I've blocked 6 people so far because of this lunacy. But I live in East TX so I'm outnumbered when it comes to conservative ultra-Christians.  point out their hypocrisy. It wouldn't do any good.  True. And I run the very real risk of ostracism. Not only for me, but for my kids and family.  I was disowned from my conservative Christian family. Best thing that ever happened to me. You have no clue how much their bullshit is weighing you and your kids down.  It us your life and they are your kids and you both deserve to live the lives you want. Drop their assessment move away and start over.  There is no award for suffering a circumstance of birth. Build a new family and a new, life with people who actually love you unconditionally.  &gt; I run the very real risk of ostracism

And that's a problem, why now??

People are SUPPORTING child molesters and you *want* those same people around you and your family?? Ostracism is not really a problem for me or my husband, but since moving isn't in the cards for the next few years, I bide my time when it comes to Fundies in general. This Duggar thing has really brought to light for me, though, how awful some people are. Very well, no more contact with those people. 

My children are a different matter. Bullying and ostracism are a very real and hurtful thing when you're small. Kids don't understand why their parents don't want your kids to play with them, but they sure will run with it. 

I have no problem calling out people in person, but why not just block someone on FB? I'm not changing their minds and they aren't changing theirs.  Move to a state that doesn't suck?  Actually, good on you for making your state suck less. Texas is a big state, the cities are filled with less religious nuts. You just have other nutjobs to deal with.  In Texas, I've learned you have to become the biggest nutjob of them all to outrun the crazy. As if. The entire Christian Conservative movement thinks greed is good. They are a pack of savegely stupid shitheads Jesus would be so, so ashamed of. If there is a hell, they have a special place set aside just for them.   Better yet ask if you can come molest them since they are ok with it. I'm from Tyler, i understand completely. I recently had to cull my FB. Couldn't stand the conservative, Christian crap any more. 

Edit: my wife and I recently moved to Plano, much better here.  We recently put together several large groups of atheist/freethinkers in this area. It's been better since then. 

Honestly, whenever I check my Facebook there's always a few more to block and it's made my FB more pleasant. I've got it culled down to friends and family (who aren't crazy) and that's what I should be anyway. 

Can't move out of the area right now, but saving for the future. LV/Tyler area isn't so bad when you cull out the crazies, but what can you expect when these people keep voting in Louis Gohmert?  Yeah Id probably do the same if someone was advocating for the Duggars. Unfriend them? You make it sound so trivial.  Fucking cut them out of your life.
 You should have seen the 19 Kids And Counting page on Facebook for the days it was the top news story. 

Christians making excuses for sex abuses. It was all "forgive him" this and "only God can judge him and he repents" that, weak on crime as they are.  These are the same folk that rabidly support the death penalty.  They aren't weak on crime, just weak on an even-handed distribution of justice.  Profess your belief in Jesus and Ronald Reagan, then all is forgiven. It's all about in-groups and out-groups.

"Abortions should be straight up illegal, but my daughter made a *mistake* so she can get one. Not you, though, you're just a slut."

We're still tribal hominids. Apparently "conservatives" don't realize this. I honestly don't begrudge Christians the idea of forgiving people. I mean, for once, I think you could make a pretty good case that it actually *is* what "Jesus would have done". But this article does a good job pointing out that the problem is not the forgiveness, it's their idea of who deserves it. Conservative child molester, sure, he's an OK guy who made a mistake. Liberal talking points on Sunday morning talk shows slightly downplay something for political gain? Death to them! It's the vicious tribalism here that's eating the country alive, not the specific dogma. 

And just to be fair, the liberals are hardly better. The amount of glee over this Duggar case in the more liberal subreddits is pretty sickening, you'd think Christmas just came early because they found out a guy they disagree with politically molested his sisters.

Pretty sad state of affairs, America. I don't begrudge Christians or forgiveness. I begrudge people that reject real world help for a divine intervention.

He was 14. It could have just been a "mistake"....the first time. But instead of getting real help, the parents slapped on a the wrist,sent him to Jesus Camp run by someone accused of sexual harassment/failure to report child abuse, and giving a stern talking to by a police officer who is now serving 56 years in prison.

If it was reported, he would have likely have been put into a mandatory program for help and a system would have been put into place to monitor him/house and prevent further abuse. 

Josh Duggar could very well deserve forgiveness. But the parents don't in the least. &gt; And just to be fair, the liberals are hardly better. The amount of glee over this Duggar case in the more liberal subreddits is pretty sickening

You're just saying this to seem unbiased, because this is simply untrue. I haven't seen anyone happy that Duggar has molested some kids. You think I have glee that children can be molested in an environment where it's covered up and the sympathy is spared for the abusers?

You must have me confused with a sociopathic sick fucker.  How dare they suggest there's something wrong with molesting children because they don't agree that people in consensual relationships are evil.  &gt; The amount of glee over this Duggar case in the more liberal subreddits is pretty sickening

C'mon man, that simply isn't true - nobody is happy that this horrific crime happened. Yes. Just look at their facebook page. It's full of duggar defenders who think his "mistake" wasn't that bad because he's been forgiven by Jesus. It's enough to make you vomit. Although to be fair, for once that probably really *is* "what jesus would do." The idea of repentance and forgiveness in Christianity is an interesting one, and not one to be laughed off. The difference here, though, is that as Reagan pointed out, I doubt these same people would be so interested in remembering the forgiveness part of their religion if it were someone outside their "tribe" I think what some people forget and even a large part of Christians forget is that confessing something and saying youre sorry doesn't mean God will forgive you. You have to be truly sorry and do literally everything you can to do better Jesus would simply forgive duggar and let him go on with his life?Would jesus allow him to keep his tv show? How about have access to your children?Define "forgiveness" for me. Yes. Jesus would absolutely forgive him. 

From Google:

&gt;Forgiveness is the intentional and voluntary process by which a victim undergoes a change in feelings and attitude regarding an offense, lets go of negative emotions such as vengefulness, with an increased ability to wish the offender well.

This is something all people should strive to do. It doesn't mean society should not punish him for any crimes he committed; it means we should hold no personal ill-will against him. &gt; This is something all people should strive to do.

Why? Why is forgiving people objectively the correct thing to do for everyone? Christianity says you're supposed to but there are few christians here. So, absent religion, what makes forgiving someone the *correct* thing to do? "Would Jesus let him keep his show?" Depends on the ratings Yes, have an acquaintance post on FB, posted we need to let it go because it victimizes the girls again. The Duggars did everything they could to help them, so us calling them out is the real sin. She is a hard core homeschooler mom &amp; regularly posts about the Duggars &amp;....Benghazi!!!!!! Poor kids. Poor us you mean. We'll be paying for those kids as adults when they can't function in society.  Yes there are a lot of people who defend them. Even on facebook I have nitwit friends who were all like "well he seeked God and Jesus for forgiveness so we should all forgive him too."

It's absurd.  Elected, policy making, government controlling people

Try to shake that out of your skull before sleep at night...republicans = nightmare fuel  Who? And why? What constituents would you be going after by defending a child molester?  [Mike Huckabee](http://www.nationaljournal.com/2016-elections/this-isn-t-the-first-time-mike-huckabee-has-sided-with-a-sexual-predator-20150526) for one, although he isn't in office anymore, he still has aspirations (more like delusions) for the white house.

As for why, evangelical christians tend to defend their own. Just to be clear, Huckabee has no hope of getting the nomination, and he knows it. 

This all about selling books and increasing speaking fees for him. I think he wants to play Kingmaker. He knows he has no chance, but if he gets enough support he can channel it into whichever crazy candidate he wants. Then he gets to say he basically picked the major candidate/president, but I doubt the crazy person he backs will end up being president.  Unspent campaign contributions as well.
 and building an email list to scam the poor and desperate. They aren't really your vanilla Christians though. They're like a smaller, crazier, religious off shoot. *coughcultcough*
 I believe Mike Huckabee is one of them. And why? Who fucking knows? &gt; What constituents would you be going after by defending a child molester? 

White conservative fake christians, of course. Huckabee defended them on Facebook, yeah.  ~~defended~~ joined I would say this.   The biggest thing I blame is his upbringing and religion.   Bottom line,  it was a 14 year old kid who lived an extremely sheltered life.   Think about it.  You don't know anything,  taught all this sexual stuff is a sin but you are curious. 

He has owned up to his mistakes,  but he probably wouldn't have done those things had he been educated and non-sheltered.  I don't support the Duggars. I'll be damn glad if they never return to the TV. I don't condone what the eldest Duggar son did. And I don't think he has any right to preach "holier than thou".

But I won't villainize him and think of him as a monster. Not for something he did as a 14-year-old  in an extremely sexually-repressed environment. If he had ever re-offended, especially as an adult, that'd be a different story.

I blame his upbringing more than anything. Same. I'm far from a Christian. But this kid was raised in a cult with extremely repressive rules, in an extremely repressive household, with brainwashing techniques or techniques near-to brainwashing. He had no outlet, no actual moral compass, no one to explain to him how to deal with the urges he was feeling. He probably knew they were "Sinful" but when you're fourteen and have no other outlet and can't masturbate and can't date other women, and can't actually even talk about sex to ... anyone else... Yeah.  He was a boy in a horrible, abusive environment. That doesn't excuse what he did, but it does explain it. Someone should pay for what he did, but in my opinion it's the parents that neglected him that should pay.  And it's the parent's neglect that let their son abuse other people.

I'm not sure a fourteen year old boy raised in a cult should serve jail time, especially if he wasn't a repeat offended. But I wouldn't mind seeing his parents go to jail for repeated, proven counts of child abuse/neglect. The article won't load, but isn't this Ronald Reagan's adopted son? Yes, it is. His views are diametrically opposed to mine on most issues, but he's spot-on here. The Reagans are such an interesting family. Ronald is **the** pinnacle conservative icon and yet only his adopted son followed in his footsteps. Maureen, while republican, opposed him on some issues (she was pro-choice for one), and Patti and Ron are outspoken liberals, with Ron being an open atheist. I not sure about the details but I think that is a good parent to raise kids that can think for themselves.  It's known that Reagan encouraged his children to think on their own and form their own ideas about the world, regardless of whether those ideas ultimately coincided with his. Too bad most politicians didn't catch on to that sentiment.  As far as i know, his views are diametrically opposed to his brother's,  as well. I think Ron Reagan Jr is a liberal and an atheist, if I remember correctly.  Indeed he is.  Just looked him up on wikipedia. Turns out he dropped out of Yale to become a ballet dancer. He succeeded too. Cool stuff. Talk about the apple falling and landing on a different planet than the tree. His dad was an actor, so him being a performer isn't too far from the tree. Political views though, you're right on that.  Reminds me of [scott from wedding crashers](http://www.hotflick.net/flicks/2005_Wedding_Crashers/005WDC_Keir_O_Donnell_002.jpg) Set to optimal if you want to read it I had the same issue. But I think it is Ahh in that case, FOX News would have gone to DEFCON 1 and run a wall-to-wall coverage of the monster Obama and basically have called for the execution of him! Fox News is literally promoting an interview with the "poor" parents in which they will defend themselves.

This is just gross negligence and cover up on both the parents and police. The headline doesn't it it justice: but here the quick facts

* A 14 Year old Josh Duggar molested a girl and was disciplined at home.
* Josh Duggar continues to molest girls, often while sleeping.
* The parents send him to some religious program run by a friend who was later fired for sexual harassment and not reporting child abuse.
* The parents bring him to a State Trooper who is a friend to give Josh a "stern talk" despite the officer being legally obligated to report the abuse. The officer was later arrested on child pornography charges and is in prison for 56 years.
* An anonymous person contacts Opera about the abuse, who reports it to law enforcement. But the statue of limitations ran out because charges have to be filed within 3 years after informing the police, which the above State Trooper was.
* More anonymous reports have come forward

I almost have sympathy for Josh Duggar. He clearly suffered from profound issues as a young adult. But the parents didn't just neglect the victims, but him as well. He clearly need to real help from a real psychologist, a real doctor, and a real social worker. He needed more than a stern talk. He need to be in a real program that not only protected and helped the victims, but also helped him. If the parents sought real professional help at beginning, perhaps this would have all been prevented. The parents play it off as an adolescent "mistake". He was 14. It is your responsibility.

I think this story is more about the Duggar parents being such religious nuts that they allowed their own daughters to be molested because they think serious issues can be solved by Jesus and not legal or mental health professionals. It wouldn't surprise if this a result of their crazy beliefs damaging normal development. Maybe if the kid went to a real school, met girls, and could smile at them without permission he wouldn't have molested girls. They aren't fit parents.....next thing you know one of the kids will die of treatable disease because "prayer was the only medicine they need"  &gt; this story is more about the Duggar parents 

This exactly.  They didn't protect the 5 victims nor help their son - other than to make sure he didn't get arrested for it.  As reported, at least one of the victims still had to share a bedroom with Josh, and one of the victims was reported to be 4 years old.

What I get is that they are not only bad parents, but really bad parents.  And should be known as such.  Exactly. It is a "mistake" for a 14 year old. It isn't a "mistake" for adults to allow it,don't treat it seriously, and allow it to continue. 

I understand protecting your child. But seek real professional treatment immediately. Even if the authorities were informed. they aren't going to throw the book at a 14 year old in his situation, but make him seek help to fix his issues and places assurances to protect victims. If this happened, abuse could have prevented and he could get help while ending up with no legal or police records. It is ironic that NOT reporting abuse resulted in this being public. If reported, these records likely wouldn't exist.


 &gt;I almost have sympathy for Josh Duggar. He clearly suffered from profound issues as a young adult. But the parents didn't just neglect the victims, but him as well. 

That's one of the worst parts about this. He should have gotten REAL, professional help, not them trying to do everything through the church and/or hiding it. People already want Obama executed, what are they going to kill him, revive him, and kill him again? He lives! He dies! He lives again! Barack "Valhalla" Obama 'Valhallabama'

i think i feel a new religion coming on Or a new chant at Bama football games Pretty sure if you mention Obama at a bama football game, what follows involves pitchforks and torches. And rope.  And Jeb Joe Jeremiah's ax. Sweet home Valhallabama  
Where the black skies rule  
Sweet Lord, Oh Muhammad  
Now I'm coming home to you HE IS SHINY AND CHROME.  Witness him. WITNESS ME OBAMA!! WITNESS! Lol.  His presidency has been... 

MEDIOCRE.

Edit:  Holy shit guys, it's a Mad Max reference, nothing more. Off topic but Immortan's use of the word "mediocre" in the context of the decline of the world made me howl with laughter.

Great damn movie. Tell the truth and shame the Devil. His Presidency if mediocre, was deliberately made mediocre by the Congress of NO. I'm amazed at all this president has been able to accomplish in the face of such disrespect, lies, and obstruction. You are incapable of admitting this because you are a dishonest broker and would have to admit to the treasonous acts committed by these last two congressional houses. 

History is going to have some harsh observations for these people and I do mean on both sides of the aisles. 

This could have been one of the greatest periods of growth for America and Americans. Instead, we have to look off into distant shores to admire the advances  made by China, India, and Korea,,, of  and Japan based on the goals set forth by Senator Obama.  Partially true, but there is a lot he could have done but didn't that contributes to his dissapointing 2nd term.  Case in point, illegal surveillance by the NSA is derived from a Regan era executive order. He could cancel that at any time and write a new one. But he hasn't. He's been a strong defender of domestic spying.  

There are other points. Guantanamo.  Drones. The fast tracking of the Tran Pacific Partnership agreement which will raise corporations from being in line with persons and raise them to being equal to nations.  

Yes congress has a hate on for him.  But he's made his own bed too.   no cause if they did that he would be the new messiah in 2000 years. course they probably still would do it cause they caint look ahead more then a year or two. What is dead may never die, but rises again, harder and stronger.

OBAMA = EURON CONFIRMED The repentant Barack Obama will be the faith's champion at Hillary's trial, and will face his massive zombie brother in combat.

OBAMA BOWL=CONFIRMED 

GET HYPE If Obama was literally Jesus, they would tell him to go back to Mexico. The sages still tell the tale of Obametheus, who stole healthcare from the Heavens, being sentenced to have his liver eaten every day by rabid elephants, only to have it regenerated for next day's feast. [deleted] &gt;As it stands, Fox will try to find a way to blame Obama for Duggar's child molestation.

Josh Duggar was 14 in 2002. Dubya was in the White House. Obama was a "skinny state senator from Illinois" at the time. He gave a much-publicized speech about the Iraq invasion at an anti-war rally in Chicago. 

"Dr." Keith Ablow states, "Young Josh was a fervent supporter of Republican politics and he was outraged that this former community organizer would have the nerve to challenge the president. His Bush Boner was throbbing with rage. The only way he could relieve his anger was to molest his young sisters and other relatives. So I conclude that had State Senator Obama NOT made that speech, Josh would not have molested." sssh. Elisabeth Hasselbeck is trawling reddit looking exactly for this. "Innocently" enough this article did manage to tie the president's name to sexual abuse. I can only imagine the coverage Nancy Grace would be doing on CNN. They're still huffing and puffing BENGHAZI!!!! 24/7. I honestly don't think they would survive this if this were about Obama. What if he came out Obama molested a little, white, blonde girl. Is there something above DEFCON 1 for that? Yes, DEFCON N***** 5 mistakes, huh?  I seriously doubt it was only once per girl. Whoops!

Whoops again!!! I think the most frustrating part of this story is that people keep focusing on the 14 year old part.  He was a kid (when it started) and whether you think he's reformed or not, the real  horror of the story is how the *adults* involved reacted.  The complete and utter failure of his parents to actually do something about the abuse happening on their watch, under their roof, *to* their children is entirely indefensible.  

We can have a sincere disagreement on whether a person should be forgiven for transgressions committed at 14.  I don't think molesting a child qualifies as a "mistake", but I can understand the impulse to defend him if you believe he's changed.   The fact that his parents did nothing makes it less likely he's changed.  He's had no reason to.  He did what he did and got away with it, why would he stop? &gt;would you call that a mistake and say you were willing to forgive him?

The opposition of Obama would likely demonize him.  
This is propaganda 101. You make your opposition look like he's an evil lunatic, and you try to move aside all your proponent's "bad" attributes. But for people who are (trying to be) honest with themselves, they might realize that yes indeed they would demonize Obama for it, and then see the double standard they are holding by forgiving Duggar.

Not that I think most of the Obama haters are truly trying to be honest with themselves, but there must be some. &gt; see the double standard

It's not a double standard if they hate a black guy with more power than they are. It's racism. 

If Obama had done this, their heads would explode with outrage before they could say a word. But the white conservative fake christian guy? No, it's all good. I'm certain that there are a lot of people who hate Obama for his race, but I don't think it's every Republican, and it really doesn't have much to do with a hypothetical molestation scandal.  All the while accusing the other side of proliferating propaganda. If conservatives had any inkling that Obama had done this they would be on it like stink on shit and their wouldn't be any "forgiveness" at all or it was a "mistake" due to youth. Well, there was that recent study about people perceiving suffering better from people of their own race. The assholes who claim they aren't racist while they call Obama a race-baiting monkey genuinely haven't the slightest bit of self-awareness. I could only imagine what the world would be like if I didn't understand the nature of evolution, genes, and the psychology of the physical brain. I might even be inclined to believe people should be eternally punished for their actions or for the sake of vengeance. Nonono monkey is too obviously a race thing, haven't you heard? When we want to say 'nigger' but are also trying to convince people we're not racist trash, we say 'thug'.  This guy is a conservative columnist... He is siding with the mentality that they should be on the asshole pedophile...and many other conservatives are calling foul in the media fucking this shit up.

Source:I am one of the conservatives angry this is getting brushed under the rug Only wealthy white Christian males get to make mistakes in their past and keep them there. That's an exclusive right for only them and no one else. Black teen steals some cigarettes? Thug deserved to be murdered in the street!  

White teen sexually molested his little sisters? Forgiveness.  

It disgusts me.  It's worse than that. One black teen steals cigarettes, they ALL deserve to be executed in the street. Nah. Just the ones enslaved by rap music and welfare, obv. /s Worse. Darren Wilson didn't stop Michael for stolen anything, but for walking in the street prior to crossing it. Michael continued walking in the street and that is what lead to his death. It's like Eric Garner in NY. At the time he was approached he wasn't selling anything, not even loose cigarettes. In fact, he had just finished breaking up a fight.  No forgiveness. He's black. He should be use to the misrepresentation even in his defense.  I have a weird theory. Kinda conspiracy I guess. The media reports on a "racial inspired" killing, i.e. Brown and Trayvon. They cause a massive uproar, than they switch it and start showing how the alleged killer, was actually the victim. The people who deny racism is alive today, then see this as confirmation of their own beliefs. "See they're not victims of racism, they were thugs, and we don't have a racial issue" then when they see cases like Eric Garner, their past experience leads them to believe that it's the same thing as Martin. Now a large population of people are using Brown and Trayvon as precedent to just ignore the new cases like Garner. Then the media focuses on the protestors and the race baiters, and it just fuels the fire of ignorance and racism that is alive and well in white America today.  The media seems to be trying to divide races, or at least from what I've observed, they have. From what I've seen and heard here and there, the medias has been successful so far. 

Now I know a lot of redditors will look at this and not believe it, you won't understand. But don't look at this in the context of yourself, look at this in the context of the people who watch Fox News, and think how they might react to it. Think about the millions of ignorant people in this country. It's the same people who believe Obama is a socialist Muslim. The same people who believe that they're not racist, they're just superior.  &gt; Worse. Darren Wilson didn't stop Michael for stolen anything, but for walking in the street prior to crossing it. Michael continued walking in the street and that is what lead to his death.

Although this was reported early on, the court documents show that Wilson was aware of the robbery and had the description matching Brown when he stopped him.  TIL you are a moral, intelligent person.  That is a good thing.  Anyone not disgusted and outraged by Republican hypocrisy, especially on moral issues such as these, truly is pathological. Fucking hell, I actually get sick when people claim all their 'sins' are 'forgiven' when they repent afterwards. Is that why so many of the worst bullies I've seen in my life are also religious freaks? seriously, their facebook profiles are plastered with 'O almighty jesus I love etc etc/...'

I used to be indifferent to religious people..I'm slowly realizing so many people around the world are religious and I'm starting to hate the world.

I am sorry for the rant, I think the flying spaghetti monster may forgive me :p Forgiven by God =/= no consequences in the real world; people seem to forget that.

Heck, forgiven by *anyone* =/= no consequences. This why the comments about forgiveness being a good thing frustrate me. What does that even mean? Are they implying nothing should be done to a criminal as long as they say "sorry" to Jesus.Look, Jesus might be able to forgive someone who molests children, and maybe someday I might be able to, but that doesn't mean there shouldn't be consequences.A scenario I often use if my future children were to commit a horrible crime. I would love them and forgive them if they asked for it. But I would also want them to fave consequences for their actions.But in this particular case? The hypocrisy and the dogma spewed by thus fuck and his family lead me to believe that saying you are sorry and asking for forgiveness is very different than being genuine about it. Think of it like Hamlet. "The lady doth protest too much, methinks." My experience with the people who talk about church all the time, post shit in their FB, they tend to be the people with the most to hide or make up for. Somehow shouting about their religion, that enthusiasm, will make up for their not-so-pious behavior previously. Meanwhile the people who worship privately and quietly get a bad rap. I've noticed in the Navy that the longer one prays before they eat, the bigger piece of shit they are. This might be the first time on record that I've ever agreed with anything Michael Reagan has said. Why do politics play into the molesting of children? 

The fucked up world we live in. Because the Duggars, and Josh specifically, are vocal in their opposition to gay marriage.  They have made the claim that homosexual relations between two consenting adults leads to child molestation, etc., and therefore is not to be accepted.

Now that it turns out Josh *is* a child molester, and specifically because of their faith they did not report or seek treatment for Josh (except for having him have a talk with an LEO friend who himself is a child molester) is a big deal.

Notice that:  The LEO family friend they wished to have counsel Josh was himself a child molester.  Clearly, there is a significant number of child molesters in the Quiverfull movement in general, and in the social circle of the Duggars specifically. OK I'll take a stab at this...

Duggar is a real Christian and hence he's not perfect, just forgiven through the merciful blood of our Savior. 

Obama is not a real Christian and even if he went public and asked for Christ's forgiveness, everyone knows he's faking it.
 Many of these people think Obama is a Muslim anyway... The Duggar's aren't even real Christians but Gothardites. I've seen a trend, especially among pedophiles, molesters and those connected to the church in some way.  They all protect those that are like themselves.  Dig deep enough and I would bet those that are standing up for the Duggar's have some skeletons in their closets.  The cop that first charged the 14yo josh duggar later got arrested for cp himself. Yes, seriously.  Hypocrisy at its finest  Cue Fox Breaking News . . .  President Obama forced to flee Kenya when it is learned that he molested his sisters when he was 14.   That would be different. He is black and a Democrat. Sort of like Clinton getting a BJ. Dems are not allowed to do what Republicans do.http://www.washingtonpost.com/news/volokh-conspiracy/wp/2015/05/29/if-i-understand-the-history-correctly/ It's amazing how that works... Clinton does something "immoral" and should be punished due to moral obligations...Christian repub d-bag does something perverse and immoral and should *not* be punished, because of his...*morals*? Newt Gingrich, the serial cheater, even when one of his wife was dying of cancer was the main guy that went after Clinton for his gaffe.   It is totally political. it is not about morality. If they could have killed him in his sleep, many would have. Then attended a Christian meeting the next day.  "No, because Barack Hussein Obama is a seekrit Moozlim." 

"Cognitive dissonance stabilized. Next question." I'll take Impotent Potables for 1000 Alex.  Man don't bring Barack into this shit He had to.  It's a good comparison.  If there was even a rumor...that could be possibly misconstrued, they'd be on that in a second.  But they're own they will defend even if they committed murder. Imagine if Obama shot a hunting buddy in the face...  "President" Obama, former community organizer and probable thug, reportedly shot a friend while hunting in the woods, an action the non-white President claims was an "Accident." For more we go back to Shepard Smith in the studio. Shep? I love how "community organizer" has become a pejorative for conservatives since Obama was elected.  They believe in redemption. For themselves not you. I kinda wouldn't really want anyone to be held accountable for life for a misdeed at 14.  I don't support Josh Duggar at all, my largest issue being that it took someone exposing this for it to come out, while he was just shamefully ignoring his past and perpetrating same type of things that led to this problem.  That being said his parents are the ones who were adults and made the decision to handle the situation the way they did.  They're acting like Josh is the abuser, but I think Josh actions were the result of systemic abuse in the Duggar family that has been going on for years (specifically a lack of sex ed and the concept that any sexual urges should be repressed and are impure and sinful.)

To me the correct action would be to investigate the Duggars in light of the way they handled the situation and scrutinize the effects of their parenting on their children.   I agree.  This article is too much damning of the situation.  I think the parents deserve a lot of blame for both the toxic environment of repressed sexuality in their household and for how poorly they handled the situation.  They talk about the "therapy" Josh received, but did the victims get therapy or counseling at all?  Or were they just commanded to forgive and forget. It's actually worse than that.  In this twisted quiverfull cult, girls (even small children) are cautioned about dressing and acting extremely modestly so they don't tempt the males around them.  There's a huge culture of victim blaming--I'd bet that when Josh was caught , not only did the girls not get counseling, that they were strongly admonished to stop tempting him. Not to mention, and this just occurred to me after having multiple conversations and posting several things on Reddit about this situation, what happened with the Duggars is also a testament to one of the dangers of having 19 kids. I have two kids and I can't keep up with what's going on with each of them, but my cousin has four kids and for her it's difficult.  Two parents are not going to be able to keep up with 19 individuals and know everything that a parent is supposed to know about what's going on with them, even if they are home schooled. The concept that you parents can handle 19 kids 24/7 is completely absurd. I'm not surprised at all they had no clue what was going on with their kids. &gt;I'm not surprised at all they had no clue what was going on with their kids.

Based on things I've read, they've raised their kids to be part of a "buddy system" where they then are supposed to nark on their siblings for stepping out of line. I imagine that's a pretty easy system to break once the kids realized that they could blackmail each other, and I refuse to believe that at least *one* of those kids didn't realize that they could. I agree that someone shouldn't be held accountable for one misdeed as a teen. Again in no way do I support what he did, but a 14 year old simply doesn't know the entire scope of their own actions. If a 14 year old can be a 'victim' of sexual assault when they give consent to the sex, then what is the reasoning behind the pitchforks when a 14 year old is the perpetrator of a sexual act? The pitchforks are for the way it was handled--covered up until the statute of limitations ran out, Josh's "counseling" consisted of a talking-to and manual labor with a family friend who turned out to have a bunch of child porn, Josh went around when he was an adult being holier-than-thou and saying lgbt folks are evilevilevil, the whole family spends so much time preaching sexual purity, the parents and Josh are only talking about how this is affecting *them* and how it's bringing them closer to god and how Josh has been forgiven without spending more than a couple of words about the girls and apparently giving them no help for the trauma they went through. 

Also, when a 14-year old is a victim of sexual assault, it's usually with someone older than they are who is capable of emotionally manipulating them--most people don't consider it assault if two 14-year-olds have sex. I realize you're probably talking about couples where one partner is just over the age of majority and the other is not, but that's a different story. That's called statutory rape *because* the victim gave consent to the sex but wasn't old enough; if the underage person wasn't willing, it would just be rape. In this case, at least four of Josh's victims were younger than he was and one was 4 or 5, which is a *wide* difference in ages. 

There's also anger because this means that there's a chance that there's a lot more going on behind the scenes, and the more that's being revealed about them, it's becoming more and more obvious to everyone as to how fucked-up the entire situation is. I hadn't given much thought to the coverup when writing my answer. I do understand the pitchforks for that. People of that ilk have an answer for *everything.*   Could you imagine? I mean, imagine for a second that something horrible about President Obama came out and FOX's response was, 'Meh, people make mistakes. Let's focus on the big picture here. Benghazi.' How is this a left/right thing? Or even an atheist/theist thing? This is a "This dude molested little girls" thing. If anything can unite people, this should be it. Well, that's different.

Mr. Duggar is a good, upstanding white man. You can trust that he's had a change of heart, not like that n*****

(Just to be safe, I want to make it known that I'm mocking assholes, not defending them here) I think this is missing the fact that Obama is the epitome of _all_ that is wrong with the world. The fact that he did this one evil thing is only a small part of the larger pattern of pure evil. /s

The point is they are impervious to hypocrisy -- Obama's evil comes from the core of his being, not from Satan or this or that mistake,  misjudgment, or misunderstanding. They haven't yet forgiven Obama for being fed dog meat as a child, remember that story? In human psychology support for your tribe transcends logic and reason. 

 Good. We need more people in their camp calling them out the Duggars and their defenders on their bullshit. It is so sad that people defend these nutjobs by saying that only Jesus can judge him. This is the problem with most religions. It is so easy to take the responsibility for one's actions out of the equation. Who cares what someone has done, just repent and ask for forgiveness. It's times like these I am glad I deleted my Facebook.  'us vs them' the oldest deepest flaw of humanity My biggest argument is "what if he touched your child?" Did the conservatives ever get over Obama eating a cheeseburger with mustard and no ketchup?
http://mediamatters.org/research/2009/05/07/dijon-derangement-syndrome-conservative-media-a/149946 At the risk of repeatedly posting my response to all the "he was only 14 years old, he didn't know what he was doing" respondents claiming his actions were only a "misdeed," I'm calling bullshit on all of you.

How would you feel if you found out a 14-year-old neighbor was doing this to your young daughter or son?  Would you still feel this way?  I bet not.  In fact, I'm sure the first thing you'd be saying is, "he's 14 years old, he should know what he's doing is wrong." A 14-year-old is closer to 16 than s/he is to 10 years old.  It's not hard to imagine he knew what he was doing was wrong.  The fact that he did it to several children also shows that his behavior was pre-meditated.

Sexual predation is a crime, not a "misdeed."  To characterize it as such allows perpetrators to escape full punishment for their actions.  At best, the predator gets scared and stops.  Odds are, however, that they'll continue their behavior and only become better at hiding it, which usually includes threats of violence or public humiliation of his/her victims.

So take a look at your child and think about this.  It might bring a little perspective to your definition of "misdeed."
 What is causing this behavior from conservatives is simple tribalism which conservatives tend to be guilty of using a tribal mindset over liberals.  Religious and social conservatism is basically required for tribalism.     No matter how much Michael Reagan is right he's not going to be able to convince  conservatives to turn their back on one of their own so easily.

In-fact if anything he now stands to lose by voicing a dissenting opinion.    The need to protect your own in these people's mindsets trumps all things   and justifies any terrible act even if there was no real threat.    So of course they embrace the pedophile among them and yet demonize others like the African Americans. I think every in-group can be vulnerable to tribalism but I think liberals are usually more discerning and critical about this sort of fallacies. It is very tempting to defend one of your own, even if the rational side tells you that it is wrong. We should always be vigilant. FOX BREAKING NEWS: "..Barack Obama molested his young nieces when he was 14" explains conservative columnist. Fox, Limpdick Limbaugh, Hannity, O'Reilly and every Republican in D.C. would be losing their shit if Obama or any other Democrat had molested someone when they were 14 years old.

They'd be screaming for a lynching. Not that I disagree with what this guy is saying, but I believe everyone around the world would shit if the president of the United States molested someone, regardless  of party. Well, we've just learned that the former Speaker of the House (third in line for the presidency) has been indicted for payoffs to a minor who he molested when he was a high school wrestling coach in the 1990's. So far the world hasn't lost its mind.   Repubs would be all over Obama like white on rice on a white paper plate on a white tablecloth in a kitchen painted white in a house painted white in a snowstorm on Antarctica.  They look for any reason (up to and including opposing tax cuts) to undermine him. Hello! I'm a bot who mirrors websites if they go down due to being posted on reddit.

[Here is a screenshot of the website](http://i.imgur.com/jl6K4fU.png).


*Please feel free to PM me your comments/suggestions/hatemail.*

_____
[^FAQ](http://np.reddit.com/r/Website_Mirror_Bot/wiki/faq) https://i.imgur.com/j75vIc8.png The right hand side of the article is cut off. Happy cake day! This is not a political issue. The duggar son and parents are pedophiles and enablers period. He should be a sex offender and he parents should be charged with felony neglect AFTER they became aware of the first incident for allowing the others to happen by not acting just like joe paterno. 


They are pieces of shit and anyone who supports them are pieces of shit and they should all be flushed away democrat or republican I don't give a fuck.  The republican party would probably have more success if they directly put reality TV stars on the ticket. The comments in that article are a frightening read.  To all you conservatives grasping at the Lena Dunham straw: it's a poor analogy, which shows either desperation or an organized propagation of this meme. I wonder when we'll start hearing it on Fox (or has it already appeared)?  Do you smell that? I think it's the smell of hypocrisy and racism in the name of religion, because of your religion.  Fabulously silly argument.  Republicans would hate President Obama for saving a truckload of orphans from a fire.  Their heads would explode if the President was exposed for molesting children. Those damn orphans should have pulled themselves up by their bootstraps and crawled out of that fire on their own. Kids today, with their "fire rescue" entitlements...   Wait...a republican that recognizes hypocrisy? I think that Kaiju are about to invade. How the fuck has having sex with kids became a partisan issue?  And more importantly, can we call all of the supporters or those supported BY the Dugger family "pro-child-abuse", similar to the people who are anti-abortion who like to call themselves pro choice? "...child molesting is never a mistake." - Michael Reagan (from the last paragraph; it looks like he left out the word "just" or a synonym.) Edit: I think it even more likely that he meant to put "mistake" in quotes (like I just did). BREAKING NEWS: MICHAEL REAGAN ALLEGEDY SUPPORTS PEDOPHILIA!!! What meaning would it have in quotes? At that point it becomes even more obscure and breeds even more ignorance.  Of course it is a mistake. I really bad mistake that deserves punishment and should be punished. However punishment isn't going to help our society in the long run.  What we need to be focusing is on, is why the fuck it happened in the first place.   The answer is not "he is evil!".    So I found this mind-boggling statement in the comments...

&gt;I am a christian and I would hate to be held accountable for everything that I have done in my life. It seems when it comes to the "conservative",they are only willing to be realistic about obvious social issues if it they had personally experienced it. For example, abortion is wrong unless I need one. Or how about Cheney and his gay daughter? They are only willing to bend on social issues if it had personally affected them. Could it be that the columnist is only openly calling out the supporters of the Duggars because he had personally been through the horrors of child abuse? Just saying. Please do not ask Republicans to engage in this kind of thoughtful, introspective process. It's about as effective as asking a Republican to engage in an economic policy that doesn't destroy the country, or initiate an effective foreign policy. The past several years have also demonstrated to all of us that Republicans do not view rape or molestation as crimes necessarily and if you're a Christian, you're basically just expressing your religious freedom if you molest a child. Are people really supporting this guy?  Why?   Why does it bring more value to some personal opinion if there is a personal experience behind this opinion? Would not that personal experience make the person more biased intellectually?

 Or if Josh Duggar had molested young boys How soon before the screen crawl on Fox Noise reads, "Michael Reagan suggests Obama molested young nieces"? i am now waiting for the news media to jump on the story that obama molests 14 year olds  What's the main argument against sex Ed? It leads to sex?  Yes, the idea is if kids don't know how to have safe and responsible sex then they won't have it. Scare them into thinking sex is a dangerous and deadly act and they won't want it. Teach them the way to properly use condoms and contraceptives and before you know it there will be weird sex parties in the classroom that'll be like a combination of Hellraiser and Eyes Wide Shut. &gt;[Don't have sex](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=tpCvnBrjAhQ). Cause you will get pregnant. And die. Don't have sex in the missionary position. Don't have sex standing up. Just don't do it. Promise?

&gt;Okay. Everybody take some rubbers. &gt;At your age, you're gonna be having a lot of urges. You're wanna take off your clothes, and touch each other. But if you do touch each other, you will get chlamydia. And die. Its the same attitude that leads to harder drug use, they told me pot would melt my brain and make me kill people, all it did was make me hungry and make my cartoons funnier. Maybe they were wrong about Meth too.  Wait a minute, you mean to tell me that Reefer Madness was not an accurate portrayal of the effects of marijuana? I was as shocked as you were I thank DARE's lies for leading me to LSD &gt; the idea is if kids don't know how to have safe and responsible sex then they won't have it

That's actually spot-on accurate.  They won't have _safe and responsible_ sex. &gt; a combination of Hellraiser and Eyes Wide Shut.

I want this. I will show you such sights... Just had an idea for a Hellraiser/Aladin crossover. Fuck you, brain, I'm not doing that. I would ride on a sentient magic carpet with my pal Pinhead. SEE SEE ITS HAPPENING that is what they teach boys. Girls it is you are a used piece of chewing gum, to be discarded.  Or the demonstration where everyone spits in a glass of water and the sex ed teacher dares you to drink it. Implying that it's only okay to spit in the same glass of water your entire life. I really hope you've seen this in a movie, and not in class. The world would be a better place if this was fiction.

http://www.patheos.com/blogs/friendlyatheist/2012/04/18/if-you-had-sex-before-marriage-youre-like-dirty-water/
 I used to work at an active breeding farm for horses...where the stud fees were well into the thousands of dollars. Everyone (all women) there used to joke that "why invest in the stud fee if you can get the semen for free?!".

But yes, in school I definitely had more than one friend's mother tell me that boys don't buy the cow if they can get the milk for free. Nature, uh, finds a way... That was my mom's attitude. She was like, uh, well, you're gonna do what you're gonna do, so you better know what you're going to get yourself into. Makes perfect sense.  Teenagers are well known for making good decisions, and I know that I don't do anything I'm not an expert in. Yes. The idea is that teaching about safe sex implies that the school is promoting sex. I would have liked to go to such a school when I was a teen. I actually did.

My health teacher was sleeping with one of my friends.

I'm not sure the curriculum and his behavior were actually related, though. I mean, because the school teaches about Hitler, they are also promoting Hitler's ideals. Makes perfect sense. 10/10. They think that contraceptives means **more people** are having safe, non-marital sex starting at **younger ages**.

They think there is more of a problem with two 14-year-olds fucking with a condom between them than there is for a 16-year-old "slut" "getting what she deserved". 

In a class of 100 students, they'd rather see 30 sexually active and 2 knocked up than 90 sexually active and 1 knocked up. 
 Exactly. They see it as 90 going to hell, or 30. Meanwhile, in the average class of 100 post-pubescent individuals, roughly 95-98 percent of them should be banging, accounting for aces, non-matches, and exotics...

And none of them should be pregnant... It leads to filthy condom use.  I dunno, i'm pretty sure sex ed tends to recommend not reusing condoms.  I always turn them inside out for round two. By definition, it doesn't teach people how to avoid pregnancy/STIs, let alone things like consent, etc. Kids will continue to have sex regardless - such is our nature - but with little knowledge about how to do it safely, which leads to high STI rates and high teenage pregnancy rates. Yup, that talking about sex teaching kids how to do it so they'll do it. I'm like, trust me... most 9 year olds now know how to have sex. The problem here lies in the misinformation that is spread from their peers. As I mentioned in another comment, a female friend in college thought that having sex on top would mean she couldnt get pregnant. I had abstinence "sex education" which focused on only not having sex and diseases with photos. I, and most of my peers, had already had sex and it didn't mean anything to us regardless. Plus, doing something you shouldn't is so much more fun. While my parents had done a decent job of telling me about condoms and stuff, many of my peers had no idea about sex and only learned about it from videos online and what their friends said. I had a college roommate who'd had abstinence-only sex ed (or, rather, absolutely no actual sexual education whatsoever). She had *no* idea that women could orgasm. Or masturbate. As follows, the whole concept of why a woman might *want* to have sex was foreign to her. 

Another girl and I had to give her a crash-course on how to use a condom (luckily the other girl had a dildo, *way* better than a banana for demo purposes), how to get and use birth control, and where to find a vibrator so she could figure out for herself what a goddamn orgasm feels like. 

The more I look back on that story, the more I realize how fucking fucked up that was that this poor girl had to rely on some very brash practically-strangers (I'd known her a matter of hours at that point) to give her some very goddamn basic education. &gt; I'd known her a matter of hours at that point

That escalated quickly? Yes.  Sex is sinful if not done in a marriage.  Teaching sex is teaching sin.  Sin = hell.  So, teaching kids about sex is sending kids to hell.   &gt; Group of ethnically diverse teenage students

Am I the only one that caught the picture caption? Just a typical stock photo caption. Definitely not a typical Hawaiian class. oh my god, I was dying I caught it!  Except for Asians, they don't have any in that picture, lol. 'Abstinence-based sex education" is literally the definition of an oxymoron.

"Today on suffocation-based breathing education... Oops" Collision-based driving school? Yes, it's a crash course.  *golf clap* *diana princess of wales clap* What do you get when you cross the queen and parliament? Killed In a tunnel. Goddamn Derek.  She had the clap? Yeah she got it from a spork. I'd say it's more like Driving school focused primarily around not driving. Chapter 1: Walking

Chapter 2: Riding a Bike

Chapter 3: Your bus pass and you

Chapter 4: Is leaving home really necessary? You forgot "Automobiles will kill you" Seat belts are 0% effective and will chop you into pieces every time you get into a car outside of Bible-sanctioned drives to and from church. You must drive a giant SUV or truck built for hauling several tons but never use it for that purpose or else you will get this terrible disease that will keep you alive just to spite you even though you want to die. Close, but I would say it's more like:

Chapter 1: Don't Drive

Chapter 2: We Mean It, Don't Drive

Chapter 3: Really, Driving is SUPER DANGEROUS

Chapter 4: You Think You Need to Travel? No!! Stay home!!! Fun fact! 
100% of car accidents involve 1 or more cars!
 "If you get in a car and try to drive, you will get in a catastrophic wreck and die horribly. Best to just stay away from them."

"But they're fun! My girlfriend really wants to go on a drive with me!"

"**Don't do it!!** Honestly, not worth it, at least until you're already married. Then you can go for drives whenever you want." "But don't wear your seatbelt." God doesn't want you to wear a seatbelt, because if you get into an accident, your injuries are His will.   Seatbelts aren't 100% effective, the only way to not die in a fiery crash is to never get in a car &gt;Seatbelts aren't 100% effective, the only way to not die in a fiery crash is to never get in a car

and when a car crashes into you when you're just walking along? The body has ways to prevent death if its a legitimate hit-and-run. But even though it's totally cool for you to take a drive after you're married, you don't NEED to know anything about driving before then.  So we will leave out the part of education involving actually learning the rules of the road or how to operate the vehicle.  You can instead pick up what you can from other kids who are just as ignorant as you, and maybe you'll piece enough information together that you'll be ready to drive safely when you do start driving.  But, probably not.   When you're married and ready, you'll just pick it up. Automatic NASCAR

...who by the way are godless sinners unless they're married. Yeah you only live once, that's the motto, so take a chill pill and ease off the throttle. 'You don't wear a seatbelt, just walk!' [If Driver's Ed Was Taught Like Sex Ed](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1SMVGo0o2DM) No, abstinence only sex ed is more like "the best way to avoid auto collisions to never, ever learn to drive!"  Almost as bad as Umbridge's Defense against the Dark Arts.

At least she allowed people to read about it.... Land-based swimming lessons. As a swimmer, this is actually very real.  I assume you eventually got in the water. Oh yeah, of course. I actually never have done it as a real full time thing, but there are many ways to swim whilst not being in the water. &gt; literally the definition of an oxymoron.  
  
No, it's literally an example of an oxymoron. I know what you're saying, but really what it is comparing it to is abstinence-only programs... I don't think the title is quite worded correctly. In Hawaii, we DO teach abstinence-based (which includes contraception, teen pregnancy, STD/STIs, etc) programs not abstinence-only programs.  In this case "abstinence-based" means "teach about contraception, but advocate abstinence" as opposed to "declare contraception irrelevant because they should be abstinent anyway"?  I hope they will see that good sex education actually works! It WILL solve a lot of problems. Good sex ed is one of the reasons that the Dutch have one of the lowest teen pregnancies of the world! Nice to see that Hawaii implemented this change. Well bringing up the Dutch isn't going to help your argument with conservatives. Of course it did. If you want these things to go down you have to treat teens as people and teach them the facts.

Anti-choice people are not anti-abortion. They *say* that they are, but they oppose many methods that actually reduce abortion rates, such as sex-ed and cheap and available contraceptives. 

What these people want is to punish women for having sex. Nothing more.  Thats what I don't get. My mother is the epitome of a religious, southern conservative. She is very against sex-ed and very against abortion. She is also very anti-immigration and talks about how all the minorities/poor people have the most kids and it must be because of "government handouts." What she doesnt get is it is all about education. Just educating people about sex and providing contraceptives will make this abortion thing a lot less and the population expansion of low-income and uneducated people a lot less as well. To me its basic common sense, but she just can't understand it. Says its up to parents to educate on sex... well obviously that doesn't work well. I seriously had a female college friend who thought being on top made it so you didn't get pregnant.  Gotta love that "I want it, and I want it my way because doing it any other way is evil even if my way doesn't work" mentality. Dogmatism and ignorance reinforce each other. :( [Dogmatism and ignorance reinforce each other. :(](https://soundcloud.com/whynotbarbershop2/dogmatism-and-ignorance-reinforce-each-other)* Barbershop'd The problem is they think their way works, as the lord intended.  Well this 'lord' fella could really use a few statistics classes and a heavy dose of reality.
 &gt; I seriously had a female college friend who thought being on top made it so you didn't get pregnant.

I went to a very religious high school and it wasn't uncommon for people to get married right out of high school.  One of the pastors had a "spiritual" birth control method that he covered in marriage counseling since any contraception was sinful.  Everyone that I knew that used this method was pregnant within a year.  It wasn't the method that didn't work - it was god's will.  Crazy people - so glad I'm away from that nonsense.   Any chance you could go into detail about this spiritual birth control? Sounds like solid science. Let God control whether or not you get pregnant. Bam.  And that's how you get the duggars Well if they are prepubescent when you have sex with them obviously you won't get pregnant. Makes sense to me

And now I will wait for my one way ticket to hell but I couldn't resist the joke.

Also eff the duggars. They are riding with me.
 Yes, exactly. In the absence of strong sexual education by teachers, rumors and misinformation become rampant. Of course they do, because a lot of these parents who hate on sex ed don't really want to have The Talk with their kids at all. When kids find that they can't get a straight answer about their sexual concerns from the adults in their lives, they turn to their peers. De-mystify sex. Every single person who created another person has had sex, it really shouldn't be so taboo to speak of it.  Yeah, my mom's version of "The Talk" was her saying, "the boy parts and the girl parts fit together."  That was it.  I didn't know about erections, periods, semen, eggs, or anything about the anatomy or biology of reproduction.  Didn't have any sex-Ed in school, so I didn't know anything until I actually started being sexually active and has to figure it all out that way.  Funny because christians have more kids per household than anybody else. Also are the ones who are on food stamps and obamacare. Could republicans be any more oblivious to their own hypocrisy? Everyone that buys from the exchanges is on "Obamacare", do you mean Medicare, or using Obamacare subsides? Or using Medicare expansion? The majority of Obamacare enrollments (people without insurance who are now covered) were from (R) districts. The numbers would be much higher but about a dozen states, again mostly Republican, turned down the extra subsidies and has kept the cost of healthcare in their area up in a poor attempt to make Obamacare look unappealing or "A FAILURE!!!" [this is a great article written buy an *ex* Pro-Life woman.](  http://www.patheos.com/blogs/lovejoyfeminism/2012/10/how-i-lost-faith-in-the-pro-life-movement.html) Show it to your Mom Here's another great article on sex and religion: http://thoughtcatalog.com/samantha-pugsley/2014/08/i-waited-until-my-wedding-night-to-lose-my-virginity-and-i-wish-i-hadnt/ I've never understood how anti-abortion people can also be anti-contraception people. As a kid from a strictly christian upbringing, we were taught that it was our duty to get married asap to another christian (never mix the yolk, only marry another christian) and have as many babies as possible to raise "in the light". Of course everyone will want to get married right away, so their sexual urges no longer make them feel guilty (for the most part). As soon as you're married, they say your sexual urges are natural and will produce many kids if it's god's will. If this isn't your exact path, you're fucking up, living in sin. It always sounded to me that someone was just bitter they married a prude and wanted no one else to have any fun. It's because they are fucking retarded.  That doesn't work either; you can still get babby from that. Getting pregnant is gods will and God is never wrong. &gt; I seriously had a female college friend who thought being on top made it so you didn't get pregnant.

Duh, gravity. Religious indoctrination circumvents common sense. One day indoctrination of minors will be illegal. Religion has interfered with the advancement of humankind more than it has contributed to it. History has shown, that the only other thing Religion hates more than facts about a nonextant creator, are educated young people. They want sex to have consequences so that people will stop doing it. If a teen gets pregnant, their thought process is "Well, you shouldn't have had sex before marriage because it's wrong. But since you did and now your pregnant you are going to have to deal with the consequences. The. Consequences are that you will have to work your ass off to support yourself and the baby. If that means that you're working 60-80 hour weeks at a minimum wage job and all your money goes straight to housing, food and clothes, then so be it. You will not have a good quality of life, but you're the one who messed up and now you're paying for it! You're only hope now is that your child doesn't make the same mistake as you did and will have a better quality of life than you." Which is extremely fucked up. Nobody should hope punishment upon someone else. Seek to educate, inform, or reform. I think what's especially fucked up is the punishment is becoming a mother. Literally, the child is the punishment. That's a sad thing to think about.  House said something to the effect of "no one should have their entire lives ruined because of one small mistake." They never acknowledge the very wide gap that exists between how they think things should be and how they actually are. They don't want to 'reduce' abortion. They want to outlaw it.  True. But outlawing abortions does not actually reduce abortion rates either. It just increases the mortality rate of women, because they then seek illegal abortions or home "remedies".  I think that at least part of it has to do with 'punishing' women who would consider abortion in the first place. The birth rate is less important than maintaining a culture that is hostile to sexual liberation. Exactly. They don't actually care about the unborn. They just want the "sinners" to have more severe consequences. I have always fantasized about joining in with the anti-abortion protesters and holding up a sign that says what those people really think: "Women are evil and cannot be trusted to behave themselves.  We demand government control of women.  It is the only solution"

If the other protesters give me shit, I will just calmly tell them that my poster is the only one that reveals their actual point of view. They aren't anti-abortion, they are anti-sex.

Pregnancy is a *punishment.* And what does that make the baby? &gt; What these people want is to punish women for having sex. Nothing more. 

That is NOT true. ^^They ^^also ^^want ^^to ^^punish ^^men ^^too.  and i bet them stupid "conservative" fucks are still gonna push for abstinence based sex ed. Like they did in CO. Republicans canned an IUD teen program in which pregnancy dropped 40% within 4 years. 

Pregnant teens are the best! We have mountains and pot. Can't win'em all. Sure you can. Move to Oregon! Of course.  Their goal is to have young women having as many kids as possible. How do you build the largest cult in the world? You don't recruit them, you breed them. I think that's the motto of the [quiverfull](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Quiverfull) movement. More uneducated the better, easy to brainwash..  Yes because to them it's about preventing premarital sex, not disease/pregnancy/abortion. To them it is also about more young women having more babies. And then chastising them for it and refusing them any social services after the kid is born. Well of course because they didn't abstain so they should be punished for doing what is a regular human need/want.  Rick Santorum says you shouldn't be allowed to sex without consequences, so yeah, he considers kids punishment. 

Having seen his kids... The frothy mix of sex and consequences.  If your parents raised you thinking you were a punishment from god almighty, how well do you think you'd have turned out? Sadly, that does seem to happen in some families.  It doesn't serve our argument to misconstrue theirs, although I know it's fun.

A bunch of young women having babies is the net effect of their goal - their goal is to preserve some backward sense of biblical purity by employing abstinence based sex education.

When they hear you explain their goal in the wrong way, it makes them much less likely to take you seriously (because you haven't taken them seriously - difficult, I know), and thus convince them of anything. &gt; It doesn't serve our argument to misconstrue theirs

I'm not.  More young women having more babies is one of their stated goals.  You see the extreme end of this with the Quiverfull movement. That's fair, but I don't think this view is incredibly common, at least not with the Christians that I grew up around. They were more concerned about their daughters becoming 'sluts.'

But you're right - there are definitely some who want this.

EDIT: Also, Quiverfulls typically homeschool. So... no sex-ed anyways. Yes, because in their view, knowledge of evil things like sex comes from Satan and must be repressed. Quantifiable results are beside the point -- Keeping kids ignorant on sex is an end in itself.  Of course.  Their argument is morality-based, not utilitarian-based.

I mean, you could save multiple lives and improve other lives by taking a healthy person and butchering them for organs and other body arts.  But of course we would recoil in horror at the idea because we would deem it incredibly immoral, even though there is a greater net benefit to do so.

Same goes to these conservatives regarding sex ed.  They think it will lead to more sexual activity, or at least seem to give their blessing to sexual activity.  They are not willing to support that.  Of course, it's a naive and factually incorrect belief that teens will have less sex if not given sex ed. What blows my mind is that every single politician was once a teen.  You would think that that insight alone would stop this shit from happening.

That said, I don't think the Hawaii thing is due to conservatism in the same way it is on the mainland.  When I was growing up there we (seemed) to have decent sex ed, much better than most other places in the US outside of college.  Maybe things changed.   Also sex wasn't as taboo there (it seemed) than it was in places like NH, NY, FL.  less teen pregnancies = reduced suffering. that is not something y'all qaeda likes to see. It is all about the misery!  &gt; y'all qaeda

I am *so* stealing this. as a dude in texas who hears fanatical shit all the time, y'all qaeda is my new go-to.  just epic.

 Weird, the sex ed I had in Hawaii wasn't abstinence based.  They still encouraged abstinence obviously but also went into detail about contraceptives, std's, abortion options and births.  This was back around 2002, wonder what schools weren't teaching this stuff, especially in health/PE. You know I find it shocking that people in general have had such poor sexual education, I'm from Lubbock, Texas and surprisingly my sex ed consisted of boys and girls in a room, calmly discussing the proper names, locations, and implications of our bodies, and acts made with them. People who were a disturbance were made to study the material alone and it was a required grade. Hell, they even showed us a video of actual childbirth.  How long ago was this?  I grew up in south Georgia 25 years ago and back then, the religious fundies didn't seem to have nearly as much influence on the culture that they do today. since then the right+religious fundies have gotten together to attack public education:

- budgets and/or pushing private voucher system to guess what? Christian schools

- sex ed

- science (Creationism). and

- allowing prayer

it's diabolical I'm 25 now, and this was when I was in Junior High, so about 14-15? I was already keen on the subject since my parents were pretty liberal with my internet use, but the freedom afforded me surprisingly afforded me personal restraint.  You mean, once you knew the facts you were able to make informed decisions? What a concept! Astounding isn't it? I'm very thankful my mother allowed me to partially raise myself. I grew up in Kona. My health class in 7th grade (Kealakehe Intermediate 1998) was all abstinence all the time. They even did that shitty tape demonstration to show how you become dirty when you have sex with multiple partners. Boys and girls were separated, and the only other thing we covered was what horrible STD's you'll get when you have sex. My 9th grade health class (Kealakehe High 2000) was a much better approach that's main point was, "The only 100% way to not get pregnant is to not have sex, but here's the information you need to know in order to have safe sex and reduce your chances of pregnancy and STDs."

My 9th grade teacher used to be a nurse, and I have no idea what my 7th grade teacher did before she came to our school. It seems like it might have been left to the teachers a bit in terms of what their lessons covered, and thank goodness I had a teacher who actually cared about giving us useful information. I post this every time in response to an article about abstinence-based sex education.  This is not a pregnancy issue, it is s sex issue. The worst outcome, in their eyes, is NOT an unwanted pregnancy, it is sex without consequences. Even (or maybe especially) if it is their own son or daughter. 
Here is how it shakes out:
1. Worst case scenario - child uses birth control to have consequence-free sex. Does not get self/partner pregnant. Learns that sex has no consequences and can be had merely for pleasure. 
2. Middle scenario - child has unprotected sex gets self/partner pregnant, learns valuable lesson that all sins have their price. Additional upside is another Christian is brought into the world. 
3. Best-case scenario- child doesn't have sex before the sanctity of lawful marriage before god. Everyone lives happily ever after. Plenty of time after marriage to make more Christians. 

It's not about birth control, it's just about control. Pointing out to them that it is not an effective way to prevent unwanted pregnancies misses the point. There are no truly unwanted pregnancies- if you didn't want a baby, you shouldn't have had sex.  &gt;There are no truly unwanted pregnancies- if you didn't want a baby, you shouldn't have had sex. 

This is the part that really pisses me off. I'm married. And I still don't want babies. Are we just not supposed to have sex? It's insanity 

 According to the Church sex for pleasure is a sin. Yes, no sex for you. And why don't you want a babe? The Almighty send us ti reproduce. By not having babies you are sinning. The more, the more christian you are. &gt;Health and education experts arent sure exactly why those rates dropped so sharply, but they noted the declines came as Hawaii moved to evidence-based sex education in 2010 and since 2013 has allowed girls as young as 14 access to emergency contraception without parental consent.

Hawaii must have a pretty low bar for what they call an expert. No, they understand that correlation does not necessarily mean causation. I'm no expert but I'm pretty darn sure that access to contraceptives CAUSES lower birth rates Actually, USE of contraceptives causes lower birth rates.  Access to contraceptives SEEMS to lead to the USE of contraceptives.  So to show causality you would have to show that the availability of contraceptives has lead to increased use by teens.  All we see here is that 1.  Hawaii switched their sex-ed curriculum and 2. teen pregnancy has gone down.  There is not a causal link established.  Any number of factors could lead to this result.  I would say it is pretty likely that this curriculum change is largely responsible.  That is the difference between science and pseudo-science.  You actually need to prove your assumptions with science.  Well you obviously don't understand how it works. How do you know God isn't just stopping the sperm from reaching the egg? He creates his special snowflakes individually, obviously.



(sarcasm) &gt; evidence-based sex education

Or as some like to call it, "sex education" I'm pretty sure it has something to do with putting rubber barriers over the penis, just a guess. [deleted] But if they aren't getting pregnant to prove it, how do we know which teen girls to slut-shame?

/s &gt;What's the safest way to ski?  Don't ski.

\- Darryl on The Office  
\- Michael Scott It's almost as if when you educate people about a topic, they can make an informed decision on that topic. Who'da thunk it? Are you telling me.... that teaching people how to not get pregnant has resulted in a decreased number of people getting pregnant? Sex is backed by a great deal of instinct. You don't have to tell me how to use it. I'm sure most of us would figure it out.
If you don't teach kids how to do things safely they will follow instinct alone.  Grew up in Texas, which also has abstinence-only sex education. My sexual education was one page in our textbook: "Waiting till marriage to have sex is safe and healthy." next to a picture of a bride getting out of a limo. NOTHING on STD/Is, pregnancy, prevention...nothing. The teachers couldn't even say the word condom without being fired, because it put state funding into jeopardy. Luckily for some people, I had a science teacher who was able to very carefully word a suggestion to go look online on how to use a condom - from the reactions of some kids in the class (2 or 3), they had no idea what a condom was or what it was used for until they went home and looked it up.

Unsurprisingly, there were usually 2-4 pregnant teens at our school.

I used to think "the talk" with my parents was weird and unusual, but now I'm grateful they did it. I wouldn't have learned it anywhere else.  Correlation. Pregnancies dropped sharply across the US during this time period. 

EDIT: Also, Hawaii enacted a law in 2011 that gives assistance to low income women seeking an abortion. 

EDIT2: Also, morning after pill started to be available to young women without a prescription in 2013

[Source](http://www.prochoiceamerica.org/government-and-you/state-governments/state-profiles/hawaii.html?templateName=template-161602701&amp;issueID=11&amp;ssumID=2540)

Guess the point is there were a ton of variables during this time period, and no one is sure which has the most impact. Multivariate multiple regression anyone? I'm finishing up 3 weeks in France and you know what's great?  There are condom machines everywhere.  The pharmacies all have them outside the building.  Some pharmacies even have fancy vending machines that sell all sorts of things one might need on an emergency basis - along with about 15 different styles of condoms.  There area condoms everywhere, available 24/7.  Even in some places I didn't really think would be condom emergencies - like some metro stations (but it makes sense, you're out on a date, things go well but you're too irresponsible to be carrying one with you, but responsible enough to pick one up on the way home).  People in France obviously like to have sex, but they don't like having unwanted pregnancies. The French teen pregnancy rate is 1/3 of the US rate. The teen birth rate is 1/5 that of the US rate.  But the teen abortion rate is equal to the US rate - so they may not be getting le knocked up as much, but when they do, they are having abortions. Another shot in the face to all the backward ignoramuses who support "absitinence only" sex ed.

Will they believe it though and change their minds? No. Because for them this was always about preventing sex, not pregnancy. It's the same shit as DARE. DARE actually was found to make people *more* curious about trying drugs.

When will people learn? When you educate, making something "COMPLETELY OFF LIMITS" will do nothing but spark curiosity about why it is treated that way. The fact that abstinence based sex ed is still prevalent blows my mind.  I just read an opinion piece in my hometown's paper written by a woman from an abstinence-only organization saying that the chlamydia outbreak in Crane, Texas wouldn't' have happened if the students waited until marriage for sex. The problem with her argument is that Crane relied heavily on abstinence only education. You can't argue with these people. Its the availability of the morning-after pill, said Rep. Bob McDermott (R-HI), who believes current sex-ed programs encourage teens to have sex. The need for surgical abortions is diminished.

Indeed. That's why assholes like him are against the morning after pill. Gotta make them slutty little bitches PAY for being tramps!

These sexually fucked up Conservatives make me tired. Don't give kids knowledge so they know what they're getting into, don't give them easy access to contraceptives to PREVENT pregnancies... god no, don't do THAT! And then when we do all that, when we give kids the tools to make the right decisions, or to stay safe, these Conservative assholes have the nerve to stand there and lie about it.

Something we all need to remember about the GOP. They will fight tooth and nail to protect the unborn, up to and including forcing women to carry their rapist's baby. But then, after that kid is born, it's a hardy "Fuck you!" and a boot in the ass if that kid and his teen mother need help. That's your "Compassionate Conservatives" at work for you. (Unless you're poor!) But now Hawaii has a shortage of welfare moms to bitch about.  

There crime rate is probably plummeting too.  How am I going to keep winning expensive contracts to manage prisons in this environment?

Also where are we going to get shock troops for the inevitable war we trump up?

Where will I find workers to pay less than minimum wage to work at my stores?

/sarcasm
 "Now remember, the best form of contraception, is abstinence"

I always hated that line.  inb4 posts about water is wet. Has there ever been a documented case of abstinence based sex ed working? It's almost like teens will have sex no matter what you tell them.  Imagine that. It's like telling someone the truth about something helps them make informed decisions about the thing.  If you think about it, isn't the reason our species managed to survive all those millennia before we figured out medicine, during which we had life expectancies of ~20-25 years, due to the basic fact that young people are all about fucking?

Best of luck to all those trying to pit religious beliefs against millions of years of selection for horny teenagers. Because birth control works, and girls who know about it use it. Gawd created us with naughty bits. That fact has pissed him off to no end.  "Teen pregnancies  and abortions  plummeted after Hawaii ~~ditched abstinence-based~~ began teaching sex ed"

There's no such thing as abstinence-based sex ed. It's an oxymoron. It's almost like teaching responsibility leads to people being responsible. "Teens make better decisions when given all the information."

 Whenever you meet someone who claims to be against abortion, just ask them whether they are in favor of comprehensive sex education and easy access to contraception. If they aren't, then they are really pro abortion and are too clueless to realize it. How the fuck does America not understand this? We understand.  Its just that some people have different priorities. It's a difference in mindsets between means and ends.

Republicans can only utilize what their belief system allows: abstinence only teaching.  The results - more pregnancies and STDs - are almost irrelevant, because there simply is no other possible choice.

The Democrats want to use what's effective.  Sex education appears to be reducing pregnancies and STDs, so they push this as a practical solution.  If a more practical solution yet is introduced, it will be considered and maybe adopted by Democrats as the best choice. The disapproval of Baby Jesus went through the roof though.  :P How many times must this phenomenon be demonstrated for anti-choicers to understand this isn't just a fluke?  It won't happen. It's actually been proven that the more they are presented with logical arguments and facts that contradicts their position, the more they become convinced that they are right. Strange phenomena. Feelz&gt;Realz They also haven't figured out yet that circumcising boys doesn't stop them from masturbating, either, and they've had *that* evidence for over 100 years! Who would of thunk it, edumacting kids about their raging hormones and what happens when they have unprotected sex would reduce pregnancies &amp; abortions.

The article didn't mention it but I bet it's a safe call to say that STD infections probably went down significantly as well. Informed people make better decisions?

No, that can't be right... ...surprising no one but the prudish and the willfully ignorant . Want to reduce teen pregnancy/abortions? Just show them videos of women giving birth. Huh. I had sex ed in Hawaii in 5th grade. Maybe 1991 or 92, and my teacher was pretty frank and honest about everything. She was young and pretty, too, so... That was awesome.  Remember parents, if you want your kids to do something [just say no!](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=K5ATQsqjrLQ) Well DUH! The abstinence only education doesn't make sense. If groups want to push for that, they should also push for reducing the amount of sex used in marketing/advertising.

Sex sells, and it doesn't make sense to say, "we believe in these businesses right to tempt you with sex, but not in your right to have pre-marital sex."

Our biology and our media intake makes us all crave sex, if you think you can stop it by saying "you can't do it at all," you're adding yet *another* form of temptation and it actually becomes counter productive.

When I have my own family, I will take the liberty of educating them myself. I live in Texas and I don't trust our education system, especially with stuff like this. My kids may have to sit through abstinence only education in school, but at home they will learn about responsibility and the repercussions of their actions. Hawaii is a pretty liberal state. How did such stupidity like abstinence-based sex Ed even take root? If abortions are down, where am I going to get my human veal?! Same with the drugs...Don't so drugs...

In countries where this reverse psychology was not used, you can hardly find people who do illegal drugs.

In Colombia and Bolivia for example you won't find the drugs or quality the &lt;first world offers&gt;.

Kinda makes sense in a hunger games kind of way.

Bizarre sexual interests are now being dumped on our children as &lt;education&gt; Alright, sex-ed is cool and all. But why aren't actually more parents getting into it as well? Doesn't matter. The religious right wants young people who have sex to pay for it. They can't go having sex in a safe way, and getting off with no repercussions. They have to do it with no protection, so they ruin their lives and pay for it forever.  Surprisingly, teach ignorance only doesn't work as well.   Alright McDermott, show us evidence that Plan B sales skyrocketed -it's a verifiable claim you're making. In other obvious news water is wet and the sky is blue. "Republican critics say the changes to the teen pregnancy and abortion rates are misleading.

Its the availability of the morning-after pill, said Rep. Bob McDermott (R-HI), who believes current sex-ed programs encourage teens to have sex. The need for surgical abortions is diminished."

less abortions.....but somehow still a problem.

some people need a good smack upside the head.
 Forced births is their goal.  Everything else will be considered to be a problem by them. "we hate planned parenthood because of abortions"

"sir, abortion rates have dropped!"

"well....shut up!" Wait, so explaining that when a penis goes into a vagina a baby might happen stops some kids from ruining their lives at age 15? Who knew....  Here in the UK, religion is on a rapid decline.  Seriously, no-one cares about it.  I've buried 2 grandparents in the last 5 years (89 and 87 years old) and both of them requested a non-religious funeral.  Cameron might say we're a Christian country but the public begs to differ. I think the Archbishop of Canterbury described the UK as a post-Christian country, which I agree is far more accurate. Eddie Izzard's jokes about Church of England come to mind.

"Vicar, I've done many bad things"

"Well, so have I" &gt; no-one cares about it

This was my biggest surprise. I was raised in a very strict religion. When I left, I expected most people to be either curious or atheist. But no, most people (in Britain) have no reason to care. Religion is just irrelevant. 

The biggest surprise was talking to my devout mother in law just before she died. She attended church every week, but she told me that she didn't really think it was true. Wow! I suppose it was just a social thing for her. Or maybe her views changed toward the end?

Of course, America is different. You never had the massive wars of religion in the 1600s. We learned our lesson about fundamentalism. Since then many Anglican bishops have been functionally atheists (notably the bishop of Durham in the 1980s). But intellectual religion does not bring converts, so religion declined. 

America still has the fundamentalists: they still think it is possible to run a nation based on the Bible. We tried that experiment in Europe in the 1600s. We saw the results. Never again. &gt; Since then many Anglican bishops have been functionally atheists

For any doubters, this is credible.  I once knew an Anglican vicar with a large-ish congregation in a conservative area who used the "I believe in God with an extra o" line (good in case that's not obvious).  He was a scientist by trade and it was more about doing good things and being nice than actual belief in God as a literal being for him. Awesome guy and I wish there were more like him. 
 We had a massive war 150 years ago, and we still have about 20% of our population that refuses to recognize the cause of it. &gt;You never had the massive wars of religion in the 1600s.

Yes we did, because we were British, just like you. We can divide the British (and Dutch, and Germans) who were part of the 1600's experiments into two rough sets:

* The ones who were willing to convert of stay silent and just get on with life
* The crazies who weren't, and left to populate America


This may go some way to explaining why America doesn't seem to regard the experiment as over, whilst Europe does.
 Many people left to the New World to avoid religious persecution, which would suggest they were maybe more devout than the ones that remained.

 People go to church whether they are religious or not in most cases. Churches often do community events, coffee and social mornings, fundraising for said events, raffles, bric-a-brac sales and just stuff in general that keeps old people busy. That said, they still do the normal religious things you'd expect from a church.

They can also be very old (we're talking 1700s in most cases) and full of interesting pieces of history. If you're in the UK I'd recommend asking the local vicar if they have any days where you can go in for a look around, if they have anything interesting to look at. not even the full bible, but just the cherry picked parts that conveniently support what they're trying to shove down everyones throats.   Except in Norn Iron. There is a curious amount of Christian fundamentalists there. It's not really so curious when you consider they've had decades of sectarian violence, is it? Curious that it's the only place to really keep the Reformation/Counter Reformation wars alive. Killing fellow Christians is so 17th Century. I'm across the pond so this might not be the most in depth analysis but it would seem like playing up the whole Catholic vs Anglican thing is just a way to play up the lingering political problems there.  You're pretty much spot on.  Few give a shit about religion but would still align themselves with one or the other.  Not so much with the younger generation though. I understand why there are strong protestant and catholic communities but can't fathom why there are so many creationist types and other fundamentalists when there are so few in the rest of the British Isles.  The violence wasn't religiously motivate though. I think this needs to be the banner headline, I've never heard of any schools in the UK teaching creationism, as most British children would probably respond along the lines of 'U WOT?!' 

Hell I went to Catholic school and the most we did was observe some holidays. 

Religion is a very small part of the  British identity these days.  Every school I went to taught RE (Religious Education). We learnt about every faith and what they believe. All of my friends learnt the same thing in different schools. Maybe they dropped it in the recent past? I left school a decade ago. My mate's kids (youngest is 19, eldest 25) all had to do RE.  I was fascinated by how it was handled, learning about all religions, not just Christianity like it was in my day.  Whilst I cannot possibly believe in a god, I do find the teachings of religions interesting.  It can really help to understand a different group of people, get where they're coming from. I get the impression rules such as this aren't written for the declining populous of Christians... more for the other, more strict, more serious one(s). The public may not care and may not be religious, people ticking the Christian box on a form when they go to church for the odd wedding or because that's what they tick isnt a good indicator.

Despite that there's a good few religious types in the House of Lords which gives a Christian influence on the laws of the UK. Same as Denmark i pressume. Our whole society is built around christianity, with all the holidays, churches and such. And many still get confirmated once a teenager, but it's mostly just a tradition now, not really that you're commiting to christianity. Same here in Ireland. Old people may go to mass regular but it's just Christmas and easter for the rest. They say 83% of us are catholic which is far from the truth. Although with the referendum on Marriage equality a few crazies did pop out of the wood work which was surprising but I think they were Americans pretending to be Irish. A dead give away was them saying kids need a Mom and dad.. we do not say Mom.   Probably because an atheist voter would vote for a candidate if he was a christian but a christian voter would never vote for an atheist candidate. No schools in the UK teach creationism anyway.  actually- a few were found to be.. religious schools I think. Stamp it out quick I think is the idea. The point of school is to become an educated productive part of society, not to learn fairy tales and bash anyone who opposes.  Well, one would hope. Generally UK schools are good but I am not sure how long that will continue.
 No they deserve equal attention cause they're both "theories"... /s obviously. You see it on the news here in America a lot too; they'll put a climate scientist and a skeptic on tv on equal footing saying they're equal even though 97% of scientists agree with the climate scientist. What they should be doing is having 97 guests that argue one point and 3 that disagree while having corporate money periodically fall out of their pocket. [Something like this?](https://youtu.be/cjuGCJJUGsg) You know what would have been funny? if he'd done a split screen interview, where you can see both faces... but instead of splitting it down the middle, given Bill Nye 97% of the screen, and the other guy just 3% That's the direction I thought they were going in. Disappointed that it wasn't. It's almost as if /u/LackingTact19 had seen this before and was ripping it off from someone else...oh wait. Oh man, that was amazing. Even religious schools teach evolution etc.  I went to a church school and there was never a hint about anything like this american bullshit. I went to a Jesuit school. Never once did we encounter creationism, only the widely accepted theories were thought and free thought was widely encouraged. The priests in my school knew I was an atheist from an early age and never questioned it or discouraged me. It was my own decision to make. That said, the Jesuits appear to be a particularly forward group in their thinking. They have a very strong intellectual tradition dating back to when they were founded in order to combat Protestantism through winning theological debates. Yes, American religious bullshit is something else. The headline is slightly incorrect I think.

They can still teach it.

They just can't teach it in science lessons, as science, they have to teach it as religious education, in the religious curriculum. Which is as it should be. Like it or not, the bible is one of the most influential works of liteature mankind has produced. It absolutely should be taught and discussed in liteature and philosophy classes, but not science classes. I agree it should be studied, however some teachers don't teach it as *literature*, especially when they are religious themselves. In my school, the Bible was pretty much taught as fact (in RE lessons), while other religions were taught as works of fiction.  They still had daily forced worship when I was there. Where the fuck have you been? Most Private Schools are pretty awful in this respect. Daily hymns and prayers. No exclusions whatsoever. It's not in the Science classroom but they do try very hard to enforce Christianity on you. I was at that school 2 years ago. Nothing is changing. 

I had a friend who wouldn't put up with their BS and refused to take part in anything religious. He got in a lot of trouble but I respect him for it.  I had this in my primary school (5-11 years old) there was 1 kid in the entire school who was a jehovahs witness amd he was made to sit in a classroom by himself while the assembly happend. Every day. Same here, whole school except one kid who was a JW Went to a private school, had hymns, communion all that jazz on a regular basis, but not once did they force Christianity on us. Even religious studies taught by our own Reverend was focused more on Judaism and Islam (there were a few Jew's and Muslims there but not enough to garner that type of attention to to their religions, maybes 30 out of 800 students. &gt; Went to a private school, had hymns, communion all that jazz on a regular basis, but not once did they force Christianity on us.

I think that is exactly what people mean by forcing Christianity on people. It might not feel like hymns and communion every day is forcing Christianity on someone if you are Christian, or don't care but grew up in a Christian dominated society. But if you have strong non-Christian beliefs, being made to do hymns and communion everyday would probably feel different.  It's just that *little* bit more subtle than being handed a knife and being told to cut someone's head off. 

"Why aren't you singing?"

"I...don't believe in it?"

"Oh, you poor child. Don't you know that you're going to hell? You're going to burn, you poor lamb. Your parents too. Here - take this pamphlet and get on your knees to pray with me. To pray. Pray for us to prevail over those filthy...um...M*oz*lims".

"..."

 I think people way underestimate how coercive things like singing hymns, group prayer, or taking communion really are, even if technically not everybody has to participate. Especially for kids. And especially when it creates the false impression that everyone else believes because everyone else it participating, even though some of the people are just doing it to fit in or whatever. that is still the law, even for non-faith schools; there should (by law) be a daily act of school-led communal worship of a "broadly Christian nature". I'm a school governor. Thanks for an up to date confirmation.  Does it still happen at your school? I used to sing hymns at my non-religious school and my partner's kid (4YO) goes to the same school and apparently sings them too.

But that's the only mention of the bible they get, just a couple of sing songs in assembly in the morning. It wasn't even until I got older I realised we were singing about Jesus etc. I just thought the songs were about being nice to people, so they clearly picked very neutral stuff.

edit: I guess Shine Jesus Shine isn't that subtle... but "I was cold I was naked" was hilarious! HAHA THEY'RE COLD AND NAKED!!! They kinda tone it down a lot to what you might have expected from a generation ago. "Sort of" is the best I can answer. Imagine a senior team who objects to that rule trying to do enough to not get into trouble with school inspectors... I was taught it in both Biology and Religious Studies. I actually asked my Biology teacher about it, and he said he had to teach it (and also couldn't say that it was incorrect).

It happens. It's good that it's banned. I was taught it during year 7 and half way through year 8. My R.E teacher then left the school and my school decided to drop the whole subject.
One of the happiest days of my school life. This is no news, the article is from 2014 Good thing we aren't in /r/news then! I mean, it never hurts to put "in 2014..." In the beginning of the post. Or at least not use the present tense as if it's something going on at the moment. At the very least he should have posted nudes. You fucked us all OP, good show. Its also not accurate as I believe it does not apply to Northern Ireland, Scotland or Wales.  This is fantastic!!  I guess if I ever have kids I'll send them to school in the UK lol Nah, don't send them here, all North Americans I've met think I went to Hogwarts because my school was founded in 1558 and I was a prefect there

Edit: It was founded as a proper school in 1558, it was a school for the local church boys founded between 1398 and 1418, it has grounds that have either 3 cricket ovals or 4 football pitches and 3 rugby pitches, to get to the rugby pitches you go from the Lower School, past the old shooting range, over the bridge and see the swans on the river then you're in a big arse field that is effort to run around. The lower school also used to be a house where, I think, some duke or lord lived and entertained royalty because there is a former house where Henry VII used to go hunting about a 2 miles away, which is also effort to run around

Edit 2: I forgot to mention we also had 3 grass tennis courts too, the only non private school in London that has them  so....did you go to Hogwarts? Yes, but that's not the point I'm trying to make We always referred to my cousin's school as hogwarts. To be fair he went to Dulwich, which looks like this:  
http://4.bp.blogspot.com/-6eEP7MiL_44/UHsX5FDXTCI/AAAAAAAAFQ0/CSu_vfRVs2c/s1600/Dulwich+College+(9).JPG How rich was he? I don't know any ~~public~~  state schools that look like that. [This was mines.](http://i.imgur.com/Yt1YcFZ.jpg) &gt;mines 

You're Scottish?  Yes, I am. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HdZ9weP5i68&amp;t=0m16s "Art." Could be from Bristol  could have fat fingers Yep, that's a Scottish school all right. The soulless misery is spot on. I couldn't believe the potential horror of going to that school and the sheer depressing nature of the cheap box look of the place. It was terrifying.

Fortunately I never went there myself and moved away before I was afflicted with the poison of it.  Mine looked like this http://imgur.com/qqm5Y5E Mine looked like this http://www.imagesofengland.org.uk/images/45/82/L458220.jpg Partial scholarship, one of the standard private school tricks for making themselves look impressive is to grab a load of kids that are already performing well and offer to let them attend for less/nothing if they keep their grades up. Very rich if he went to Dulwich.  Most of us went to comprehensives.  Nigel Farage went to Dulwich. A public school is a type of private school.

It's an easy mistake to make. I always thought public as in open to the public. I guess I'm retarded.  It's public in the sense that anyone can pay a shitload of money to send their kids there. Even if you're one of those disgusting Catholics. Typically in Scotland "public school" means state school (the guy you replied to stated above that he's Scottish). the welsh campus of my school looks like this: http://www.visitcardiff.com/wp-content/uploads/2014/09/conf-atlanticcollege-castlepanorama.jpg St Donat's is beautiful :-) the first stones of the castle were laid in the late 1100s To be fair, he went to school, in a freaking CASTLE. Didn't think I could be disappointed anymore than I already was with my American education but there it is. Shitty castle. The large ground floor windows wouldn't stand up for long against a determined aggressor. [Should've gone to Framlingham.](http://www.framlingham.com/attractions/images/Framlingham_058.jpg) See now that's a school that's going to survive the zombie apocalypse. That looks highly Protestant I went here: https://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/1/10/Saint_eunans_college.jpg

Though I'm not from uk Holy crap, if it is Hogwarts my kids must go.  Maybe thats why I never got my letter....the owl is still stuck in customs....it all makes sense. The owl was taken in and automatically sent to Mexico.  As it should be. The last thing US Post Office needs is magical owls taking their jobs. Well, I guess I'll be the oldest first year in the school then... Well you don't have to worry about getting past the age line for the Tirwizard Tournament.  Can probably make a mint to taking some names in for the younger kids. I'm sorry to say, but the owl has been detained by the TSA and rendered to a foreign country for "enhanced interrogation" to see who  it's really working for.  Frankly, it's the owl's fault.  All they wanted to know was the answer to a few simple questions, but it kept being a smartass and responding "who?" to everything it was asked. AD 909, you young'uns Somerset detected. Mine was founded in 1596 apparently, you win by 38 years! 1594 for me- beat you by 2 years!
(Emanuel) 1514 here, what do I win? I bet the fagging was rife, no? what is the verb 'to fag' From Wikipedia:

&gt;Fagging was a traditional practice in British boarding private schools (nearly all "public schools" in the English sense) and also many other boarding schools, whereby younger pupils were required to act as personal servants to the most senior boys. 

&gt;While domestic servants were common in family households, the custom reflected household task distribution and taught pupils about service from both ends of the relationship. Under school rules, fagging might entail harsh discipline and corporal punishment when those were standard practices.

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fagging TIL I'm British and I've never heard of this before. It sounds old fashioned, and is specific to public schools, so I'm not surprised that most of us haven't.  I went to a public school and it was an *old* phrase there. Hardly anyone used it or even knew of it. It's one of the things that's not actually been done in 30 years or so I would assume. Wouldn't bet. And if not, I bet Prince Charles wants to bring it back.

I mean, he's still pissed about the *Enlightenment,* and that was wayyyyyy before that. To be fair, I only know of it because I used to own a book of short stories by Roald Dahl called "The Wonderful Story of Henry Sugar and 6 More". One of the stories, Lucky Break, is autobiographical and he talks about it in reference to his time at public school. In particular, being caned by a prefect for burning his toast.  Wow. I may have actually done this... never used the term, though. only time i've ever heard of that was in Rhold Dhal's short story Galloping Foxley, even for Dhal's writing it seemed a bit far-fetched.  In US, 100 years is old and 100 miles is short.

In Europe, 100 years is new and 100 miles is far. What's going on in this thread?

Only two states currently allow public schools to bring up creationism legally. Tennessee and Louisiana.

If you're worried about this, you can move one state over instead of around the world? Free healthcare may be another incentive to move. And a minimum 4 weeks paid holiday and 2 weeks sick leave.
 There is no minimum sick leave. You can be sick for as long as you want but most companies will have cut off points at which they reduce your salary to social security levels. Typically after 1 month it halves and then after 3 months it drops off.

It does vary quite a bit but if you're salaried as opposed to hourly paid worker you'll be on a much better deal than 2 weeks.

Like anything though if you take a lot of sick leave HR will pick it up and you'll have to deal with their crap.  A lot of larger companies do full pay for 6 months, half pay for 6 months, then statutory. I didnt want to make our American cousins feel worse than they already do ;) You can send them to Canada. I was in public school over a decade ago and even back then creationism wasn't taught. I actually have a memory of a classmate (we were in grade 6 I believe) raising their hand during a class where we were talking about evolution, and asking a question about creationism. I can't remember exactly what he asked, but it had something to do with Adam and Eve. My teacher nicely told him that they could talk about it after class if he wanted, and moved on. This was in the early 2000's.

Sometimes I forget how religious other countries are :/ I was in public school in Texas a decade ago and creationism wasn't taught.

The problem is it's a movement now. It seems to vary by district now in Texas.  My son's district refuses to go into either creationism or intelligent design, and still sticks to reasonable science.  I look through his textbooks each year just to check.    
Two districts over my coworker's kids are learning intelligent design alongside science (sketchy) and referencing the bible in addition to the textbook in history classes (worse than sketchy).    
    
Source:  Texan Dad I went to Catholic school in the south two decades ago and it wasn't taught.  I thought Catholics supported evolution and the Big Bang, but that those things were started and guided by God  In regards to evolution, this is from the relevant [Wikipedia age](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Catholic_Church_and_evolution)

*The Catholic Church holds no official position on the theory of creation or evolution, leaving the specifics of either theistic evolution or literal creationism to the individual within certain parameters established by the Church. According to the Catechism of the Catholic Church, any believer may accept either literal or special creation within the period of an actual six day, twenty-four hour period, or they may accept the belief that the earth evolved over time under the guidance of God. Catholicism holds that God initiated and continued the process of his evolutionary creation, that Adam and Eve were real people (the Church rejects polygenism) and affirms that all humans, whether specially created or evolved, have and have always had specially created souls for each individual* The problem is it's a movement now. I grew up in rural Newfoundland, and let me tell you. In a province where 90% of the population is christian, they made my public schooling very religious. Lord's prayer in the morning, grace before lunch. It blows my mind how they got away with it looking back. I'd like to point out I'm only 23. Yeah I've realized it's a provincial regulation, not a federal one. That sucks :( I know the east tends to be a lot more religious than some other parts of the country so I can't say I'm surprised. Just graduated high school in rural Newfoundland, I don't know what part you're from but the church has never been involved like that since they switched from having the church in school to just public school. The only religion I learned was in religion class, which taught us about all religions world wide and that wasn't mandatory in high school. Where did you go to school? I grew up in Carbonear and then Stephenville and we never had any of that in our school. Actually it's not really legal here and in most places outside of the deep south you won't see creationism being taught. Northern Indiana. I graduated in 2009 and it was taught alongside evolution, as equally scientific.  Creationism isn't taught in nearly as many schools as people think. Those that do just get more publicity than those that don't. It's normally not a problem but reading reddit you wouldn't get that. Its a problem if it is taught in place of science at any school in my opinion. I'm from Louisiana. No, not as many schools teach it as you might think, but we still have plenty of creationists. If you were surrounded by them on a regular basis you would be pretty sick of them as well. I graduated in 2009. Sophomore biology teacher taught evolution but then also covered creationism as if it was equally scientific. As a kid I didn't understand the difference but about the time I was 19 years old I realized what had happened and my blood boiled.  You mean sometimes you read on the internet ahout one persons life and then you extrapolate that to a whole country? Hrm, that is something to consider. Canada is only a couple states away from me.  I'll just pack future kids bags and send him/her there.  HAHA  "Have fun at school!  We'll see you in a few months! I left 50 bucks on the fridge for pizza while your there.  Oh and don't forget your passport this time.  I cant afford to bail you out of customs again." 
 "Don't forget your passport"

*European chuckle* Or you can send them to the US, where the courts have struck down the use of creationist "science" in science curriculums. Despite the linked article's fumbling of the topic, public (in the US sense of the word) and publicly funded institutions in the UK can still teach creationism all they like. They can't do so as part of a science curriculum. See [the source article](https://humanism.org.uk/2014/06/18/victory-government-bans-existing-future-academies-free-schools-teaching-creationism-science/) that "Raw Story" mangled for the actual detail.
 Or any left-leaning state outside of the Bible Belt. Creationism isn't taught in MD public schools.

Edit: at least not in the good counties. I don't know what's going on out in the sticks. [Creationism in any form is NOT allowed to be taught as science in ANY public US school.](http://law2.umkc.edu/faculty/projects/ftrials/conlaw/evolution.htm)
The courts have consistantly maintained this position, even when creationists tried to sneak icreationism back in into the science classroom under the guise of "intelligent design".

I'm sure there are teachers in backward areas who are constantly trying to find ways around this, however. For example, I think SOME aspects of the bible can be taught, but only as literature.  So [this](http://i.imgur.com/ueIEPni.png) map is wrong?  I never heard a word about creationism in (somewhat) rural North Carolina. From north harford, redneck school in back woods county, no creationism I've never seen a teacher teach creationism in a public school in the US, and I've worked at several.  I guess there are some regions of the country where that happens; I do remember that whole stupid "creationist stickers in the textbook" thing that happened up until a court struck it down in 2006.   But I haven't seen it around here.

For the most part, the biggest problem is certain private schools; not Catholic schools, since the Catholic church isn't creationist, but there are weirder little religious private schools people do send their kids to that have crazy textbooks that teach creationism.   Just don't raise them in the bible belt and it should be fine. I grew up in a rural (northern) town, and we had a few short discussions of creationism in our science classes, the teachers were pretty good about explaining that religion isn't science while still being subtle enough to not offend the religious kids too much. Then we moved on to evolution and the religious kids (including me at the time) sucked it up and it was fine. I grew up in (somewhat) rural North Carolina and creationism was never mentioned. Also in (Eastern) NC. My 10th grade biology teacher taught evolution and then "discussed" creationism. The final assignment of that unit was us writing a journal entry about our thoughts on the matter. It was a little strange.  I grew up and went to school in Texas, the heart of the Bible Belt, and creationism was never taught. I remember as a freshman in biology learning  about evolution and natural selection.  [deleted] Thank you for your comment. Unfortunately, your comment has been removed for the following reason:

* This comment has been removed for using stereotypical reddit troll lingo or outright trolling or shitposting, activities which are against the [rules](https://www.reddit.com/r/atheism/wiki/guidelines). Breaking this rule may result in immediate banning (temporary or permanently). 



For information regarding this and similar issues please see the [Subreddit Guidelines.](http://www.reddit.com/r/atheism/wiki/guidelines) If you have any questions, [please feel free to message the mods.](http://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=/r/atheism) Thank you. You know it's funny, my primary school would do RE depending on the religion the parents requested. I was Jehovah's witness which wasn't catered for, as suchlike would just have free reading time during RE and never learnt of creation in school. This happened in 2014 I'm pretty sure they just misread '20 Jun 2014' as '20 Jun 2015'.

Happens to me all the time; it took me a few minutes of thinking 'I'm sure we already did this' to realise.

 See, even the Muslims don't believe in that stuff. It's about time. The allowance for faith-based teaching in Britain has been a stain on reason. &gt;20th June 2014

Really OP I'm actually fine with people teaching creationism in non-science courses. A social studies/philosophy course you could have a good discussion on the topic. It has no business in science though. We have a class here called religious studies which is learning about all kinds of religions and cultures around the world. I think it's good this way and in no way the classes endorse religion just learning about them.  exactly. refusing t teach anything about religion is stupid since we are surrounded by it whether we follow a religious view or not. creationism shouldn't be removed, just removed from science and placed into the world religion classes where it is taught right next to Islam, Hinduism, Aboriginal religions, etc. educating people about all religions in a nonconfrontational way and in a manner that just encourages understanding and knowledge of each is the best way to do it. I remember RI as a kid. It was taught in my school by a guy who was also a Christian preacher. I think he tried to be objective, but he didn't quite manage it. That is still allowed.  What's banned is teaching it as an alternative to natural selection or as a fact. At the very least mythology is taught as part of world history but the religious crowds want their versions to be taught like "God created the world in 6 days...." as opposed to "Christians believe that....".  They want creationism taught as fact rather than speculation/opinion/belief which sends children the wrong/mixed message. Why that one specific element of  a select number of religions?  

If you're suggesting that it be taught as a part of a section on religion, seems like there are a lot of other topics to cover before they get to that one. I'm having a Brit-gasm right now.  I've just spent the week showing some overseas visitors around London and now this.  I've never felt more proud.  My spectacles are so rose tinted I can barely see.

edit: I should probably add that I went to a school where the head of science was a Anglican vicar and they did mention creationism but it was one of 7 theories/hypotheses and given no preference.  Go UK. Yet in Northern Ireland (A member of the UK). We ARE taught creationism. Not in Science but in other classes. Plus we are constantly having creationism shoved down our throat in assembly with Bible readings and prayers. Common fucking sense  I'm favor of freedom of religion...

...but not freedom of misinformation.

I'm happy to finally see people cracking down on this 'creationism' crap. Well my Catholic school's headmaster tried to persuade us about the possibility of this, but my science teacher who was also Catholic would just say its all bullshit  So Bush's best buddies primary damage in the UK has finally started to be undone? The comments on the article are just plain scary. 
"We have never SEEN evolution actually happen!"
"Can something be created from nothing? No. Then God exists."

It's so dumb it's making me feel ill... Great! Now get rid of compulsory worship. Most schools openly flout this rule already. UK definitely provide some of the best education. If I ever have kids, I hope they end up in Oxford or Cambridge. Oxford and a shitty public school in Birmingham are worlds apart.

I used to have lessons where the teacher would just cry in the cupboard and people were setting desks on fire.

Edit: State-funded, not public, my bad. I somehow doubt that that happened in public school... Great news! Although I'm surprised this required any legislation in the first place... I'm genuinely curious about this, as an American I am curious of examples that other Americans can give me where they were taught creationism in public school. What grade was it taught in and in what way or extent was it taught?

I ask because I was raised in a very religious area of the Bible Belt (NC) and I was never taught creationism in school so I wonder how prevalently it is actually taught. I'm not so sure about this law, if it bans teaching creationism ENTIRELY then it may not be good...


 I mean, of course you shouldn't be taught creationism as the story of creation, however I still think it's worth teaching kids about it, in the same way as we learn about Egyptian / Greek gods / myths.  Come to Scandinavia, religion doesn't mean shit here! UK has taken action that's the exact opposite of what the religious right in America would do.

Color me jealous. The irony here is so thick it could be cut with a knife!

A site called, "Raw Story" is linking to a [British Humanist Association article](https://humanism.org.uk/2014/06/18/victory-government-bans-existing-future-academies-free-schools-teaching-creationism-science/) which says, "Government bans all existing and future Academies and Free Schools from teaching creationism as science," but the "Raw Story" article strips out the "as science" qualifier and leaves us with, "ban on the teaching of creationism," and, "effectively means that no school in the United Kingdom can teach creationism..."

This is patently false. They can teach creationism. They can teach Old Earth Christian creationism. They can teach Young Earth Jewish creationism. They can teach Hindu or ancient Egyptian creationism if they like.

What they cannot do is present that as science education.
 That's not irony.  Yes, it absolutely is irony. That's exactly the definition of irony. Here, let me get that for you:

&gt; a state of affairs or an event that seems deliberately contrary to what one expects and is often amusing as a result.

Specifically, a site called "Raw Story" that has filtered the story to the point that it is now ambiguous at best is so ironic as to be painful.

What you're thinking of is coincidence or serendipity, which people often label as "irony" but is actually quite the opposite. This situation is neither coincidental nor serendipitous.
 Great evidence in the comments that Creationists simply don't understand Evolution and until a cat turns into a dog they will remain that way.  Sounds reasonable. If you're going to teach kids useless bullshit, tax payers shouldn't be the one to front the bill.  And here in the US, public money is now flowing freely to religious schools via "voucher" systems that cut a check to parents who want to send their kids to private schools. alleluiah!  Monarchy next? Creationism is welcome to be taught by churches, since Christian mythology correctly belongs there.

Schools are meant to teach secular science and not offer opinions based on religious beliefs.  End of story. This happens? I grew up in the US, in the south no less. We were taught evolution, and not creationism.  I understand believing in creationism but i never understood how one goes about teaching it.... Lesson 1, God created everything... alright kids, that is it for today... who wants to play heads up 7 up? This is just like my Democracy 3 game! Not sure why this wasn't always the case.  Good. I remember being at school in the late 80s / early 90s. I think they had to teach ceationanism, but got round it by framing it as "this is what the crazies believe" so we got the context but knew not to take it seriously.   About time too. Brainwashing children with this nonsense is immoral and cruel. [Obligatory](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CRBHxJBUv_A) I hope the UK has ruled intelligent design as creationism, and not science.  
ID is sooo stupid. There are **obvious** things in nature that if there *was* a designer, he **really** sucks.  God loves you more than an Oort cloud ever will. You just haven't felt Oort's presence. You don't understand Oort like I do. That just makes me feel bad for America and it's plentitude of religious nuts. I wish I lived in a country where a bill like this would be allowed to pass. Too many gung-ho fucking Protestants in the US who don't understand the meaning of "separation of church and state." This law needs to be passed here in USA as soon as possible. My bosses daughter goes to a private catholic school. One day, my boss asked me to pick her up from school. While waiting for her, I started talking to the ladies working there. At some point we got to talking about creationism vs evolution and what they teach. The woman seemed slightly offended and firmly responded that they only teach "Facts!" and they dont have enough "faith" to believe a made up fairy tale like evolution. They only teach creationism as if it was 100% solid and undeniable truth that the world is 6000 years old and we all came from Adam and Eve.

/facepalm Next don't license anybody who was on a school that did teach it. &gt; 20 Jun ***2014*** at 14:58 ET At long last. Just keep in mind that Labour (under Tony Blair) were alerted to this by a number of scientists and clergy joined together  a faith school in Gateshead (one public school among many) were teaching creationism in science classes. He ignored this. Even as a Christian, the way creationism is taught is stupid. Even in a religious school, all it does is spring up doubt.

It sounds so bizarre and stupid. There's nothing to study or know about it asides from the fruit of knowledge between good and evil, and the burdens women and men have to suffer for eating the fruit.

If it's approached, it should be approached in two ways; literally AND more open ended. If you just do literal, it makes the whole religion sound like a fucking joke. It can't be literal; who was there to record and document the 5 or so "days" before man even "existed"? Most of the Bible speaks in parables and analogies.

Teaching children the literal version just sets up a ticking time bomb of doubt and realization for the future, while teaching the more open ended version is a bit too complex/ heavy before they even understand things like morals and the human condition. I'm currently a student here in the UK, just finishing 6th Form college (18 years old). If you guys had any questions about this/our schooling just ask! What! A separation of church and state!? Wherever could that idea have come from?? We're happy being Americans with our heads in the sand, thank you.  Paging US education system.  This happened in 2014. Thank God.

(See what I did there?) To both religious people and atheists - God is incredible. No. Please explain. Science be praised! I'm on mobile, does this include Academies? If so that's a big and welcome change to free school funding rules, if not then it's not worth noting, as they are the key problem. what caused hurricanes before? before the gays caused hurricanes, it was interracial marriage.  will it be an atheists turn? Can you imagine what would happen if a gay, interracial and atheist couple wanted to get married? Oh they've been waiting for Rapture for decades. &gt; Oh they've been waiting for Rapture for ~~decades~~ millennia. &gt; Oh ~~they've been~~they'll  be still waiting for Rapture for ~~decades~~ millennia.

 What do you think started Katrina? [Abortion.](http://mediamatters.org/research/2005/09/13/religious-conservatives-claim-katrina-was-gods/133804) Also, what about the huge multi-earth sized hurricane on Jupiter? There must be pure concentrated fabulousness under the ice sheet of Europa! Nah the Great Red Spot is because Jupiter is a Hindu. Atheists is the next scapegoat on the hate list, since it is becoming more and more untenable to be homophobic. But it is still okay to hate atheist openly. &gt; Atheists is the next scapegoat on the hate list

Honestly, I'd have a kick out of it. I'd threaten to call down tornadoes on people if they piss me off. 1700's the gays. basically it's all the gays fault. them demanding to get married is just the latest volley in their insidious plot to ... ruin ... the earth. or something.  You know that snapping thing the gays do? It releases a small amount of pressure and heat into the atmosphere that builds up. The winding motion causes that to spin and gather together. It makes it's way across the globe till it reaches the Mediterranean sea, the birth place of the Gay Greeks where it gathers strength from the naked man statues. From there it travels to Africa where God judges and sends it back across the sea from his Diamond mine.

The Hurricane then travels to New Orleans which has now become a gayer city than Miami, hence why Florida has not gotten a hurricane in quite some time. "The Fabulous Butterfly Effect" Ahhh...the gay butterfly effect Isn't there a swedish song poking fun at people who thinks gays or other immoralities caused all kinds of disasters and problems?

Ahh found it: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=l45MhPfOyGk ! You will want to switch on CC I'm grateful to live in a part of the world where this is instantly recognized as satire. "I've been sitting in front of the computer so my neck is kinda stiff, and somehow I can sense that the faggots is to blame!" [deleted] I didn't know Swedes could be so funny. Awesome, thanks for posting this.  Witches.  Wind shear, or communists Women wearing pants?
 Just Hillary. It's OK when [Laura wears them](http://www.september11news.com/02Sept15_GeorgeLauraBushArrDCFrCmpDavid.jpg) Before the gays? Probably miscegenation. I think George W. Bush sent one to Louisiana using racism once. Though, it could have been a yakuza weather machine. Depending on just how stupid you are. Sodomy. Black People! So much knowledge available to humans these days and yet still sooooooo many completely stupid people.  The great paradox of our time.   Agree, makes me  think there's always been a large element of humanity who have no thirst for knowledge whatsoever.  How else do you explain so much ignorance in what is truly the Information Age?  Boggles the mind when you realize  the ignorant speak the loudest and with so much confidence.  Search algorithms explain it. People's customized news feeds only give them information like what they've already viewed. Christians see ads for Christian apologetics, atheists see Dawkins and Hitchens videos, etc. It's the information bubble of the internet and it's preventing people from breaking free of the confirmation bias. I was gonna make a comment about never having really seen anything tailored to my beliefs, but then I remembered theres a 3rd option of people.  Those who run adblock all the time. You're on reddit. It's all tailored to our beliefs. Literally by design.  Check mate evolutionists. Might I be so bold as to say - intelligent design? Got it.

The internet is god. This is only true to a certain extent, even if you run AdBlock, Ghostery, VPNs and whatnot your browser ID is most likely unique to yourself. Just visit [this](https://panopticlick.eff.org/) and see for yourself. You'd be fooling yourself to think that by running a few extensions you're free from the information bubble.

Hell, if you have a google account it'll try to display information that's more relevant for you. If I search for Egypt I mostly get information about either Egyptian history or recent conflicts, if my mom searches she gets travel information.

It's kinda scary. It wasn't always that way.. I miss those simpler times. But fuck mapquest, that shit needs to stay dead.  Some of it is scary, but I'm skeptical of the uniqueness of browser ID data. I checked on the site you linked, for example. I can't believe I'm the only guy using a mobile device with a Mozilla-based browser that's set to deny cookies. I do too, but that doesn't hinder newsfeeds or plenty of cookie-based targets. Ad-Block + Ghostery. +VPNs +RPGs +OPP Yea, you might know me. -AT&amp;T +my axe +9000 Adblock edge + no-script master race checking in. Teach a peasant such as myself, please.  I run No-script on Firefox (or the Chrome clone "Script No"). It's great because it blocks ALL scripts on a page unless you say otherwise, so you get 0 trackers or ads because those require scripts to run.

For example, on loading 4chan (just using this because there's only 3 scripts on it), I get options for 4chan.org's own script, and their ads, and then a javascript for 4chan.

HOWEVER, it's annoying as fuck because I have to individually allow a bunch of them. I can allow "facebook" on a particular page, but then there's also a lot of others that I may (or may not) want, and sometimes it's difficult deciding which trackers are which (ads vs allowing YouTube videos). So it's got its ups and downs. And I also hate having to reload pages after allowing all the scripts for it. Slows me down.

That being said I still use it to this day, have been for several years. Some sites are nightmarish with scripts. You know they're innocuous, so you temporarily allow all... and then 20 more pop up.  
Rinse/repeat 5+ times. Even when you don't, people tend to self-bias, i.e. by and large, only visit websites run by people who already agree with their beliefs. Yeah, and when you try to argue on sites that are from the opposition, you get IP banned... or in reddit's case, banned from the subreddit.

Example: I went to /r/conservative to see just how crazy they were. I was banned within 10 minutes for linking to facts, instead of agreeing that climate change is a myth. It should be noted that I was arguing with one of the mods, and I didn't know until I was banned, where he insulted me and said I should go back to /r/politics. Your google searches are tailored towards what google thinks you want to see, so still not true. Subreddits customize your internet experience. Unfollowing your crazy racist uncle on facebook customizes your internet experience. There are also studies that show when you present a fundamentalist with evidence that disproves what they believe they only dig in harder. Sad. Socratic method for the win. The people I know who have these views do not use the google.   The Google kills the belief? Try being a Mormon and googling "Letter to a Church Educational System director."

Nobody's testimony survives a complete reading.

The Truth is out there. This is so fascinating. I'm currently on page 18 after seeing your comment and it's an amazing read so far. Ditto, what a well put together document.  And wtf, what an oppressive patriarchal religion.  I was recently traveling in Utah and the town of St. George is literally saturated with morman churches.  Looking out over the landscape you could see 10+ colonial style steeples (all churches are built the same), plus I felt like an alien considering that I'm from eugene OR.   St George is such a fucking weird city.  I have a few (male) friends who've moved to and from there a few times recently. Every time they move back to St George they have to cut their long hair so they don't get fucked with by the cops solely because of their looks. Plus, there's such a small percentage of people in that area who are neither Mormon nor raging tweakers. Weird place, man. Awesomely beautiful with easy access to nature, but fucking weird.

Edited for clarity. I moved to Eugene from St George. Can confirm exact opposites. I think.. bear with me here.. Will Smith said something relevant: There have always been lots of stupid people, but they did not have such an easy way to enlighten so many people with their knowledge.  
  
Twitter, youtube, Tumblr, reddit, TV.. it has never been easier to spout stupid shit out to the world and create or find an echo chamber for like minded stupid people. Some people have no thirst... don't agree or condone that but I can forgive it. Others actively try to snuff out the thirst in children... this is abhorrent.  &gt; How else do you explain so much ignorance in what is truly the Information Age?

No one said it was the Age of *Accurate* Information I seriously don't think it's as much stupidity as it is being stubborn. The thing about most religions is that once you get mentally locked in, you have to defend it no matter how absurd your reasoning is. Just as any superstitious mindset, better safe than sorry. And being safe involves being in denial of obvious truths and making things up to justify what contradicts your superstition. There was a fairly recent Daily Show interview with Yezza Azlan (Sorry I probably butchered that spelling) where he said basically a fundamental reason behind why religious people can be stuck in their ways is because religion is part of their identity.  People don't say "I believe in the Gospel and Jesus Christ" they say "I'm a Christian."

When people take something as a part of their identity, they defend it to the death, because any attack on that idea is an attack on themselves.  It's different from many things that people think, because it is a fundamental part of how they identify themselves not just something they believe. Reza Aslan Agreed. I know someone who rabidly defended her beliefs that Charley, Charley, Charley is a gateway to hell, and OMG! The devil takes on sooooo many different faces, and even if you think the game is innocent and not real, Satan will find a way to get you!  *rolls eyes* So much "yelling" in one comment, I wanted to ask her if she really, honestly believes that or is just being a stubborn idiot.  Yep. Stupid != ignorant. That's right.  
Ignorance is curable, stupid is forever.  &gt;Ron White: If I could offer one piece of advice to the planet, it would be this: Don't marry for looks alone, and I'll tell you why. In a few years, when Barbara's boobs start sagging, she can get plastic surgery, have them lifted, move the nipple wherever. You can actually go to a titty bar, pick out a set of titties and say, "I want those titties on that woman." If her belly gets too big, she can get a tummy tuck and have a belly like a cheerleader. If her vision goes bad, you can have LASIK surgery and have 20/20 vision. If her hearing goes bad, they can install a device in her ear that will give you hearing as clear as it was the day you were born. But let me tell you something, folks: You can't fix stupid. There's not a pill you can take; there's not a class you can go to. Stupid is forever.
 Not ignorant, I believe that's the wrong word. Willfully against common sense, dare I coin a new word? Wacose? When information is cheap, attention becomes expensive. You forget to account for the great many people who directly benefit from keeping the public stupid and confused.  Because if you did, it would all make perfect sense. It completely makes sense why people keep the public stupid and confused, what doesn't make sense is why these people allow themselves to remain stupid and confused. Because they are kept stupid and made confused from a *very* young age.  Then, while they are still weak and cognitively defenseless, the coercion can begin.  Through an extensive and never-ending course of miseducation, misattribution, emotional manipulation, distraction and deceit, the malicious party can ensure, with high statistical probability, that the target will react in certain specific ways, to certain specific words, claims, associations, events, actions, people, and parties. They work extremely hard to be that ignorant. You cannot have this much information, this much knowledge, right here at your fingertips and still believe what they believe, unless you're truly dedicated to being ignorant.

It must be exhausting. 

Edit: Poor grammar.  I think being able to choose from so much information allows people to pick what they want to believe and then go seek out things that will confirm it.   Good point! Yes, information and evaluation still requires critical thought.  I was so happy when the Duck Dynasty bubble burst. uhhhh have you been in a Walmart lately the amount of merchandise they still have is ludicrous  Why is there Duck Dynasty WINE?!  WHY?? Because they bought a vineyard. There was a Duck Dynasty episode on it. Also, money. Wouldnt be surprised if theyre just sticking to their charcter. These guys are businessmen after all.  Also Satan. Satan is a way cooler guy than anyone on Duck Dynasty.  Its his coked out brother beezlebub who gives the family a bad name. One of the many reasons to avoid Walmart like the plague. I just bought a gallon of laundry detergent for $4 S'mores Oreos, I am weak willed.  

Also, how could they miss the opportunity for S'moreos? I live in the same city as them...so much god damn merchandise and advertisements about the duck dynasty brand...People still speak highly of them, like the Robertsons are heroic defenders of their faith or some shit. It sickens me.  West Monroe is hardly a city.  I guess Monroe qualifies as one.  A very small one.  And what else do y'all have to be proud of besides highschool football?  No offense.

Also, bible belt, so of course there are a ton of morons defending them. This is why I won't watch this show. First it's a hick show with very little intelligent writing. Second they are religious whackos. I was really unhappy when they took them back. Also it's literally fucking scripted, like they have read through a before they shoot episodes.  Hicks cant have tv tailored to them? Have you tried "Rocket City Rednecks"? It's a physicist redneck you likes making rockets and lasers and all different kinds of stuff that go boom out of house hold items, but the show actually explains the science behind it. And by 'physicist rednecks' you mean engineers with PhDs. [Neil DeGrasse Tyson had an interview with one of them on his podcast.](http://www.startalkradio.net/show/rocket-city-rednecks/) And [here's](http://24.media.tumblr.com/tumblr_mdtad90jvZ1ramzgzo1_1280.jpg) their precious Duck Dynasty guys.  Clearly they don't check your redneck pedigree for qualifications. Of course, but we should take note that the Duck Dynasty crew are a bunch of preppies who are just dressed in [hick drag](http://www.today.com/popculture/beards-duck-dynasty-stars-are-unrecognizable-8C11411204).  I think looking at those two pictures and learning a bit about their background makes the vile, hateful things they say somewhat less tolerable.  Also, I get the feeling that their viewers are really being manipulated a bit. Man, what a bunch of assholes.  Hicks should be allowed to have their own TV show. Just as long as they aren't bigoted fucks. 
 Hick television has really gone down hill since *The Beverly Hillbillies*. And Dukes of Hazard Hee Haw. Green Acres Maaan.... That was the place to BE! And up through the ground came a bubblin' *cruuuude* The Red Green show! Seriously. That show was solid farce. And hick television also was responsible for green acres, still one of tv's most experimental comedies. Hicks can do so much better for themselves. People should have the freedom to be bigoted fucks, and we should have the freedom to laugh at them. Or on channels like history or fucking discovery.. I couldn't believe people were so surprised though.  I mean, I could have told you what his views on gay marriage were and I've never seen an episode.   He just made a joke. He didn't "brutally rip," "eviscerate," or "disembowel" anyone. He didn't even make an argument, it was just a joke. We really need to tone down the hyperbole a bit. People act like it's like a *Mortal Kombat* fatality every time anyone says anything that is even remotely supportive of anything tangentially related to criticism of religion. Jon Stewart Destroys/Eviscerates/Annihilates/Rips/Blasts/Tears/Decimates/Skewers/Roasts/Demolishes &lt;insert pundit/politician/celebrity/public figure here&gt; Its not just religion. Theres hyperbole around any subject. Just a few months ago there were tons of posts talking about how Barack crucified/oblitarated/murdered fox news.


Being a tiny bit edgy apparently is murder now. Agreed. That title was clearly for clickbait. He used the subjunctive correctly in saying "wish I were joking" but the article quotes him incorrectly. Also 'caused' not 'created'. Both OP and the article's author quote Seth incorrectly.  That acceptance speech was Genius.  Being called genius on reddit is like being called thin at Disney World.  Clearly you don't know the difference between Disney World and Disney Land. About half the people at Disney World are foreigners so the average weight is much lower than Disney Land. I once went to Disney world for Star Wars weekends and asked some people in line where they were from. "Uhh.....Florida...?" Like it was the most obvious thing in the world that some people I met at one of the worlds most popular tourist attractions would be local.  They have good discounts for Florida natives to encourage locals to come. We also don't need to rent a car or hotel.  Disneyland is in CA, so the local tourists are thin, we get a shitton of Japanese tourists as well. I'd say disney world is the fatter of the two. Shit you're right, McFarlane says Land so this is purely my ignorance. I've never been to either. :((  

(double chin for context) Source to the whole thing? Soooo fucking tired of the political headlines: "so and so slams this and that" 
Billy rips John
John brutally slams / rips someone else. 

I mean it was a mild joke maybe a little close to the heart, but "brutally rips?" 

I mean I saw a lion take down a wildebeest on the discovery channel once, that might fall into the brutally rips category. The hulk did some smashing and or slamming in the avengers. But passive aggressive jokes?  Clickbait. Hyperbole is in. /u/amoderate FUCKING EMASCULATES AND DISEMBOWELS POTICAL HEADLINES [SEE WHAT HE SAID!!1!](http://i.imgur.com/CE4r5vR.jpg) [Here's a photo of the duck dynasty cast before their show] (http://i.dailymail.co.uk/i/pix/2013/10/17/article-2465571-18CDA38900000578-920_634x437.jpg)

These guys are rich businessmen, not hillbillies Luving in shacks. I'm pretty sure they don't believe anything they say. No, they really do believe it. Third guy there really does preach at a local church in West Monroe where Phil goes in and talks all the time. Yes they are rich businessmen. Willie has a restaurant in town, and the wives have opened up some boutique on Trenton Street. Thankfully after Phil's screw up, the duck mania around here as tamed down. Sadly though they use their money to back political candidates, and somehow got Sarah Palin down here for a book signing. Anyway, yes the redneck persona is hyped up alot, but their beliefs are true to the show and the bullshit Phil spews. 

Thanks for your time signed, 
 Disguised resident of Ouachita Parish.  Bossier resident here, can confirm all of this. BTW, they're not the only ones that believe all this shit. I'd be hard pressed to find a more hard core conservative-evangelical-we believe everything Rush Limbaugh tells us part of the country. A significant portion of Orange County would like a shot.   I don't think that the hype died down because of the incident with Phil taking flak, but instead, people just got bored of it. I'm pretty sure the majority of people in west monroe backed him.  As another disgusted resident of Ouachita, that Duck &amp; Dressing radio spot drives me crazy. Why can't that one girl speak naturally?!  &gt; I'm pretty sure they don't believe anything they say.

So what? Spewing toxic shit is spewing toxic shit. Who cares if they "mean it" or not? Even worse if that's the case imo Yeah, I mean the sad part is that even if these guys are all for show, there are people who will actually believe and follow what these guys say. I hate people who perpetuate ignorance or intolerance. I know plenty of people, well shaven and wealthy, who go to church every Sunday, play golf in collars, and also think gay people are an abomination. They might be fake rednecks, but they can easily still be sincere on the religious stuff. Find an lsu frat I'm sure you can find more than a couple gay haters who hit the country club regularly.  Idk man... Bill Burr actually makes a pretty good case for the Duck Dynasty fellows. Should check it out. Hopefully someone not on mobile can link it but it basically boils down to why are we getting mad at them when it's religion's fault for indoctrinating them at a young age.  Here's the [Bill Burr clip on Duck Dynasty](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Kts4T-gkvdY) &gt; Bill Burr clip on Duck Dynast


Holy SHIT that was funny.  "Oh, where'd everybody go?  I thought I was a good boy!"  I'm laughing so hard it hurts.  That's pretty much my entire experience watching Bill Burr. I saw him perform live a few weeks ago in my hometown. He's one of my favorite comedians. I guess his material for this tour was still in the works because most of his show didn't get many laughs. A few bits were long with no real punchline. He spent 15 minutes telling a story about setting a bear free from a zoo and everyone just kinda stared at him the whole time expecting it to build up to something and it just didn't. Unbearable  Note to readers: if you like this then check out his latest special on Netflix called "I'm sorry you feel that way." If this is your first experience with Burr check out all of his specials from first to last, they are all gold. That helicopter bit was one of my favorites I've seen from him.  Him telling the entire collective city of Philadelphia to fuck off was my favorite. AHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHH! This is worse! This is so much worse!!! They're adults.  They're not children any more.  Religion fucked them, but they're capable of learning or changing their mind.  If they don't they deserve criticism.   True, though we expect and certainly hope that adults learn to catch up with the times and leave behind old hatreds. Which also brings up another important point is that religious indoctrination at a young age is almost child abuse since it can permanently damage a person's ability to think rationally and critically. I believe them gays are, in fact, responsible for extreme weather.

However, I also believe that these acts of extreme weather are responsible for keeping the aliens from taking over our planet, so once again, thanks gays. What is Duck Dynasty? Sorry if that's a stupid question, i'm from England Duck Dynasty is a reality show on the American TV Channel A&amp;E based in and around the state of Louisiana in the American south. It features these [backwoods rednecks](http://i.huffpost.com/gen/1024390/images/o-DUCK-DYNASTY-facebook.jpg) who made their money by making duck call things used in hunting. They are known for being stereotypical ignorant southerners who as Seth's joke implies think gays cause hurricanes via "gods wrath" and of course don't think guys should be married.

In Winter of 2013 a controversy that started from an interview which reveal Phil Robertson  from the show had anti-gay views he was suspended, but late reinstate due to idiots complaining.  Didn't Phil also make some remarks suggesting that he believed that the age of consent was more of a rough guideline than an actual law? Thought I heard something along those lines. Another stupid American reality TV show. Basically a show about some rich inbreds who invented the duck whistle. They wear camo, have beards and get themselves into silly situations. Yea, that's it in a nutshell. Fucking stupid. &gt; some rich **people pretending to be** inbreds who 

 Duck Dynasty is the Daily Mail Actually Walking and Talking and Smelling its own farts. Seemed more like gentle ribbing as opposed to "brutal ripping". Nice click bait title though. This looks like a comment I'd see on pornhub. MAN BRUTALLY RIPS PORN HUB USERS. YOU WONT BELIEVE WHAT HE SAYS NEXT! None of it is real. But some wingnut Christians think it is. The bearded hillbilly thing was created for a youtube series which was picked up and turned into a show by A&amp;E. They are all golfing yuppies with degrees in cargo shorts. They know exactly what they are doing. Its all an act. The house they "grew up" in that Phil and his wife live in is rented. It is a prop.They actually live in mansions. But wanted gullible Christians to think that they are still everyday people. 

What they are is smart businessmen. So every time Phil says something extreme, I hear a cash register going off somewhere.

My favorite quote from South Park episode Christian Rock Hard:

Stan Marsh: You don't even know anything about Christianity! 

Eric Cartman: I know enough to exploit it. 
 It is made up, bit they've been doing it for a long time. The website is blocked in my country, is there a Youtube mirror arround? [Just uploaded this](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=P-XQZsV6UIk) Duck Dynasty is a bit more sinister to me in it's promotional mix of redneck stupidity and people that know dressing like a redneck and acting that way is a branding.
Like Larry the Cable Guy.

Promotion and celebration of ignorance for the lowest common denominator. Then they want to be seen as role models. That's a problem.

It would be like if the cast of a great show like Always Sunny started going on tours telling people to act like they do in real life.
Some people would. This might be a little rambly, but... 

I was just discussing with my boyfriend about how philosophy is an important subject to study broadly, as it strongly encourages critical thinking. If children started reading various philosophies and religious texts up until graduation - the Bible, the Koran, the Book of Mormon, the Vedas or at least the Upanishads, Buddhist texts, Descartes, Plato, Epicurus, Cicero, Lao-Tzu... How could people not become skeptical of religion once they realize so many philosophies contradict each other, and that it's possible to have a moral system based on humanitarianism? Wouldn't people be more likely to become curious about science once they understand that religion doesn't answer anything, and wouldn't then the US economy improve? That's probably why it's _not_ taught extensively, as religious people would hate it, but teaching broad philosophy as part of basic public education would single-handedly all but fix that system and remove religion from most people's list of beliefs. Maybe this is part of why most people who go to college lose faith, none of this is stuff anyone learns much about until college. Very much agree. I wasn't deliberately taught these things but my parents gave me books of mythology from all over the place. I started to see similarities and very quickly came to the conclusion that there was no difference in modern religions and ancient myths. r/all crybabies incoming. I'm a registered Republican, I only seem liberal because I believe that hurricanes are caused by high barometric pressure and not gay marriage. 
 Aaron Sorkin Oh Seth.. I really hate all the BS these shitty TV shows bring to Louisiana. They make us look fucking stupid No, they just let you look stupid. It's the stupid people that make us look stupid. Is Louisiana more progressive than most people think then? 

EDIT: Not sure why I was downvoted. Genuinely curious. Not very familiar with the state.  Short answer: No.  

Long answer: Noooooooooooooo. Second opinion from a local: Not in the slightest. Nope. Only part of the state that's "progressive" is New Orleans, and most of the city just wants to relax/party.  It'll be okay, boy.  The state has established welfare for the film industry that encourages employment of locals.  This is why we have shows about people that make duck calls, a show about people that shoot gators, a spinoff gator shooting show, something about pawning dead gators for Elvis memorabilia, and another gator shooting show in development.

http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Film_industry_in_Louisiana Sorry dude - it looks like your education system and governor are doing a much better job than duck dynasty at making everyone think Louisiana is stupid. Louisiana is ranked 48th. If it makes you feel better I'm from Indiana where our governor just made us look homophobic- thing is I really do believe there are many, perhaps a majority, of homophobic people here because I look up reputable surveys on this kind of stuff. 

http://www.alec.org/publications/report-card-on-american-education/ What Louisiana are you from? 

Seriously, the one I'm from has been this shit my whole life. I always thought New Orleans was bad when I was growing up, then I went north up from Lafayette up to Monroe and it just got worse and worse, but not necessarily different from anything you'd hear from anyone in the city or in Metairie or St. Bernard or even the North Shore or Baton Rouge. La. is about as dumbed down conservative as it gets despite the indiscretions of the French Quarter and the progress coming from Millennials.   How do they explain it when the tornado obliterates their church? And, like, weren't tornadoes before there was gay marriage? Really, what obfuscates me is seeing an aged man, expecting wisdom from him, and he opens his mouth and releases that kind of religious nonsense. They'll say anything to justify their bigotry. Church destroyed? Your faith wasn't strong enough to overcome God's wrath over "the gays". Hurricanes? Eternal sin behind closed doors. They will find a billion ways to reassure themselves and convince the people that follow. It's all in how you spin it. When bad things happen to bad people, it's God's judgement and they had it coming. When bad things happen to good people, it's God testing their faith and giving them an opertunity to grow stronger. [deleted] He's always been my dream man.  Tonight I was in an argument about the differences of being catholic, a born again christian and scientology...I fucking gave up man. When the christian dude said that the pope is make believe...I said fuck it man. This shit is getting too deep. Why this didn't garner a standing ovation boggles my fucking mind Cat 5's have the tightest holes. 100 megabits of full duplex action The casual ridicule of people's bad religious ideas is slowly changing the way society views religion in general. I think it's having a much bigger impact than many of the critics of this method would like to admit.  It's not about convincing everyone there is no god. It's about pushing them into actually thinking about the "why" behind their religious beliefs. The more they seek to justify them the greater the chance they will free themselves from childhood indoctrination.  There needs to me more bullshit called.  People come up with these stupid hypothesis based on there lack of knowledge.  Nobody calls them out. I cannot stand the duck people but I googled to find the gay people-hurricanes quote and it doesn't come up. I know other religious fanatics have said it but did Phil?

Just curious.  This is all i could find of his speech, i don't know where the rest is.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fZeBGmvRNfg Interesting how he says "...I wish I were joking," in the source vid, yet every textual rendition reflects the "was," which is a change to incorrect grammar. Suddenly, I love Seth McFarlane. [deleted] It's a show about a duck hunter who has hard core Christian beliefs. He's kind of famous and gets to make political statements because he has a following. It's depressing. Seeing shit like this cracks me up. This subreddit makes me feel right at home Phil Robertson is a complete moron. Everyone KNOWS that gay marriage is the cause of all earthquakes in the world. "Fuck you money" acquired.  So what causes hurricanes on Jupiter? Gayliens! Doesn't sound brutal to me. Just honest A&amp;E didn't post the whole speech on Youtube, it's a 50 second clip where he doesn't mention the Duck Dynasty thing at all. Pretty shameful.  So Seth says "I wish I were joking" which is CORRECT. But both the article and the title changed it to "was." Subjunctive mood rant over. Jupiter must have a shit load of gays getting married I'd say more blunt than brutal. They quoted him twice in that two paragraph article, and both quotes were wrong. One even added a grammatical error that he did not make. Excellent journalism.  My favorite part of his explanation is "I've been a very hard working person".  Right. First of all, he inherited most of his money, and has been through more than one bankruptcy.
-He had more money starting out than most of us ever will.

Second of all, what the fuck does that have to do with whether or not it's a traditional marriage? Its worse than that. He intentionally moved money from bankrupting company to bankrupting company, destroying lives and jobs in the process of making his fortune. The guy is pure scum, and you know what?   
   
I love it.   
   
Donald Trump is that guy at the party who when you're having an argument, him agreeing with and taking your side makes both you and the point you're trying to defend look really bad. As somebody who isn't on his side, its hilarious to watch. As for "making his fortune" Trump would have made more money sticking all of his inherited money in the stock market and leaving it there instead of applying his supposed business acumen to it.

If anything, his business record shows that anything he touches turns to shit. Agreed. Don't you love when these rich heirs and heiresses inherit their money and immediately start cultivating the image that they've some how actually earned it? The Republican constituency eat that shit up.   
   
Reminds me of Gina Rinehart. She's a mining heiress who inherited her father's $18 billion fortune tax free (Australia's inheritance laws are stupid) during a huge mining boom. Used a portion of it to buy major stock in a bunch of mainstream news media, and suddenly they started running stories attributing the mining boom to her when it would have happened with or without her presence. You can literally buy business credibility these days. You'd always been able to buy business credibility, just look at any rich and famous person in history.  Edison, Ford, Musk, all dudes who largely piggy backed off the ideas of less famous, but more intelligent people and paid through the nose to make it seem like they're the ones who are creative. Musk definitely earned what he has though. Comparing him to Edison is insulting. Edison wasn't much more than a con artist &gt; Musk definitely earned what he has though. Comparing him to Edison is insulting.

Musk is the 21st century Edison.  Both were young geniuses who used their early success to fund ideas that are actually invented by their employees.  

Edison invented the phonograph and turned that into an empire of inventions created by employees.

Musk created an internet "city guide".  It was a webpage with local information about cities.  He secured contracts with the New York Times and the Chicago Tribune.  The profit allowed him to start paypal.   

It is a sad state that Musk, someone who's technical contributions was writing some html is the beacon of the future because he is the only individual willing to fund what no one else will touch.

Edison was an inventor.  Musk is a visionary.






 Fair point, but at least Musk is a really good visionary. "I was amazed at this wonderful man who, without early advantages and scientific training, had accomplished so much. I had studied a dozen languages, delved in literature and art, and had spent my best years in libraries... and felt that most of my life had been squandered." 

- Nikola Tesla speaking of Thomas Edison [deleted] Up until him I didn't think a casino could lose money. That imbecile can't win a fixed game.  How do you become a small business owner, ruin a successful big business. Thank you. It hurts my brain when anyone (and thankfully I personally know very few who have this opinion) spouts off about any "business acumen" that big money heir has.  Bahahaha. Kind of like how Brownback is putting all of these conservative ideas into play in Kansas and how the economy is falling apart. (Part of his brilliant plan has included cutting taxes for the rich and making up for it by defunding schools.) Brownback *has to* cut education. An educated voting public would get rid of him in seconds. Of course by dumbing down the populace and destroying education in his state, businesses cannot hire residents of his state, and they leave. People then move to where the jobs are. The rich may stay, but only so they don't have to pay any taxes. They will do their purchasing in Missouri or Nebraska where the sales taxes are lower. Then Brownback will cut more taxes and services, punishing the poor for being poor. Tax revenue falls, more services are cut, until there is nothing left to cut and nobody left to fire. Its one of those things where all you can do is laugh, because the alternative is to cry and wail. Some poor kid is getting fucked by Brownback's policy and he's not even educated enough to realize it. You could say "They've seen better days" :P

Seriously, though. I'm pretty sure that's how the cycle of Republicans is perpetuated.  Considering the size of their religiously backed powerbase and the recent trends tying better education to secularism perhaps this is an intentional move on his part to breed more ignorant suckers :P Conservatives have been waging war on public education since Brown v. Board of Education. Try the Scopes trial in 1925, which made it illegal to teach evolution in schools It certainly serves their purposes. Don't forget that all a conservative needs to do in order to validate their ideology is prove that gov't doesn't work.  They turn this mantra into a self-fulfilling prophesy at every chance they get.  First, cut taxes for the wealthy until the state is running a deficit deep into the red and then use this self-generated record of gov't incompetence to demonstrate that gov't doesn't work and that's why we need to de-fund social programs.  It's all not very convincing unless you're also drinking the kool-aid. This is actually a governing strategy. Cut taxes so that you can claim that social programs/education "has" to be cut because there's just simply no money to fund them at the appropriate levels, which is absolutely true after you cut taxes. Scott Walker manufactured a massive deficit in Wisconsin and used this strategy there.

This is scumbaggy because no one can ever expect the people to turn down tax cuts. People would vote for a candidate that promised to eliminate all taxes and dismantle the government if anyone was radical enough to run on that platform. I love him because it's great to have a fun villain in life. That absolute moron who never admits fault, always doubles down, and consistently does the wrong thing. He is completely powerless in winning so there's really no danger to anything.  

He's going to put on a great show of saying terrible things, losing parts of his businesses to his mouth, and being a fool on every media appearance. This is Reality Television with a lift-kit. It's stellar entertainment.  He is sorta like the pornstar character in Parks and Rec that keeps agreeing with Leslie Knope.  Ironically, he's the opposite of a trump card.  I forget the comedian, but someone talks about how Donald Trump is what a hobo pictures a rich person is and does. I think it was John Mulaney. "One day I'll put my name on buildings and signs, I'll have fine golden hair, and fire people for fun." It's rather telling that a representative for the party of the self-made man is a trust fund baby himself. Republicans are really all about old money and keeping it, from lowering taxes for the rich to getting rid of estate taxes. It takes a special type of retard to take over a casino and run it into bankruptcy. It's the only business where it's acceptable for people to hand you money and walk away with nothing, and he still messed it up. The average casino makes 24 cents profit on every dollar spent there.  That's a pretty damn large profit margin and yet Trump lost money.

Such a genius. This buffoon is a prime example of why we need higher estate taxes. Bring on the dow votes :) Fortunately I speak egotistical ass. 

I believe he was going to explain that he works so hard it was his fault the first two marriages failed then got confused by pretty lights in the background. That's exactly where he was going with this. He was going to say that he works so hard that he didn't have time to pay enough attention to his marriages which also take work and that he blew it.

Whatever. The guy is a tool and won't gain much traction. That still doesn't explain how those ones are still better than successful same-sex ones.  No, absolutely, it doesn't, but I could see that's where his logic was going. 

Look... Newt is against gay marriage and his daughter is a lesbian. He cheated on his wife when she was in the hospital dying of cancer. He doesn't believe in any kind of marriage, and everyone, including himself knows it. None of these people ever actually believe what they're saying but they say what they think their constituents want to hear. I honestly don't think that any of these guys actually give a shit all that much about this ruling either way, but when they say these things, they at least guarantee a few votes from the religious right, no matter how quickly their numbers are dwindling.  I dunno, I interpreted that to mean "I have a lot of money, therefor the laws of common people don't apply to me." 

Further, the following statement: "And actually, I have a great marriage, I have a great wife now. My [first] two wives were very good would appear to imply that his previous marriages were posthumously declared invalid on the basis of his new one being "better" by some arbitrary scoring system known only to Trump himself. &gt;My [first] two wives were very good

In what way? Is he rating them on how well they performed in the sack? Considering the very specific type of wife material he looks for, I'd say that is pretty likely.

 Top Trumps. Buzzfeeds new article: Top 10 Trumps. 

You won't believe who's number one!  Is there a Rosetta Stone for that? Is he implying that gay people aren't hard workers?  Wasn't Trump a silver spoon that almost lost all of it? Filing for bankruptcy is a lot of work - it's like a mountain of paper! "....but....but...I'm a frickin' billionaire for christ sakes." Bootstraps and all that. 

If you are a successful person, clearly God must like you a lot, and ignores your sins. But he had imported leather bootstraps with gold plated buckles.  I wish we all could just ignore Trump.  This would make Euchre very difficult This is the first Euchre joke I've heard on reddit, and as a fan of the game, I laughed so hard reading this. Hearts alone Fuck you man, I got the jack of diamonds and a burn heart. Bring it nigga. aka Protected Left  All nines and a ten... My best hand yet.  Ace, No Face. Redeal! Screw farmers hands, play what you're dealt. I DON'T UNDERSTAND ANY OF THIS!!! I'm guessing you are also a firm proponent of "dick the dealer" as well. Go loner! It'll all work out. I promise. Upper mid-west represent! Being from the Midwest and only playing euchre and rummy gave me quite a disadvantage in trying to learn to play spades when I moved out west... Lol, I sucked so bad first time playing spades, kept trying to 'bleed trump'.

Euchre is more like Bridge though so you have an advantage there... That is, if you can get anyone under the age of 60 to play with you. Euchre is super popular with my group of friends and we are all under 30.  This was literally how in the navy I could tell if someone was from iowa, illinois, minnesota, wisconsin, michigan, or indiana Definitely got 4 points with that joke.  Well done. That was a perfectly executed Euchre joke. Well done.  I dunno, I think paying attention to Trump helps him ruin the country's view of the GOP, which is a good thing. Yeah, I'm not sure if everyone realizes what a blessing Trump could be, especially if he keeps on behaving the way he does in the namesake of the Republican Party. All he's doing is being honest about what the Republican party believes. It's just really embarrassing stuff when put out there openly and honestly; most of the other repubs have the good sense to tiptoe around it and use doublespeak to avoid *actually* stating their opinions. 

Trump's a great representation of the party, which is why it's hilarious to watch him make gaffe after gaffe.  What if he knows what he is doing and secretly is not an idiot?
 He's been a staunch liberal his whole life, but after studying sun tzu as a young man he realized his best chance of helping his cause was to become his enemy and destroy them from the inside out.

/s obviously.  Just think of it.  Donald Trump, the hero none of us deserve. So you're saying that Trump is the Westboro Baptist Church of the Republican Party.  Not sure if I can agree...he's a well known narcissistic bombast. There's a part of me that wishes the nation's view of the GOP had been swayed by their busybodying  into marriage, incessant commitment to trickle down economics, willingness to shut down the government when they don't get their way, and pretty much anytime guys like Ted Cruz or Rick Santorum decide to publicly speak. The problem is that the public is incredibly desensitized to bullshit.  Nah, half of the country just supports it. They see it as bravely trolling against the "give everyone a trophy" SJW centric mentality supposedly sweeping america.

Come to think about it I'm surprised he's not more popular on reddit. I saw many older family members legitimately debating if he was a solid GOP candidate. They don't think he's a joke. . . They like that George W Bush, guy who keeps it real attitude.   Just keepin' it real.

Like any multimillionaire son of a real estate magnate. Part of me wishes the same thing but the more press he gets the worse he makes his party look. He is the walking personification of the current Republican party.  But he makes clowns like Jeb Bush look credible. This is unfortunately true, he's like a walking talking double edged sword  No, he's a pure narcissist with tons of money to blow.  Nothing more.  He doesn't actually care about the Republican party.  He doesn't care about actually leading America.  All he wants to do is see his name in the spotlight and know people around the world talk about him.  No sane candidate says the nation of over 100 million people bordering us only sends their worst.  That implies absolute ignorance of business, military, energy, science, technology, etc. relations where we send over tons of our most gifted people to improve the world.

The current Republican party can be characterized by two people, Ted Cruz and Jeb Bush.  Ted Cruz represents the far right wing guys who think the IRS needs to be abolished, shutting down the government is acceptable unless ACA is repealed, there has been absolutely zero global warming, and overall wish to go 10x the distance to obstruct everything unless they have exactly what they want.  Jeb Bush is conservative on those issues and more often than not agrees, but won't go as nearly as far.    

But Trump?  Pure selfishness.  In every disagreement the guy will simply choose the "gotcha!" card no matter what the results.   If he gets the nomination its an easy win for the Democrats  T U C K F R U M P trumpW phew I'm safe As a fan of comedy, slow motion train wrecks and '60s-era Batman villains, I quite enjoy him. Jon Stewart: "Thank you, Donald Trump, for making my last six weeks my best six weeks. He is putting me in some kind of comedy hospice." But he's one of my favorite streamers Trump is nothing but an attention whore. Even he can't possibly think he's going to win the nomination but I could be wrong. &gt;Trump is nothing but an attention whore

That's not all he is. He's also very clearly a baboons ass in a wig.  That's not a wig.  It's an alien that is controlling his mind.  How else can explain the idiocy that comes out of his mouth? Live shot from inside Trump's head: 
http://vignette4.wikia.nocookie.net/men-in-black/images/3/30/Gentle-Rosenburg-alien_SS_01.jpg/revision/latest?cb=20120521125859 If an alien can master intergalactic travel and mind control, they surely wouldn't be Trump-level stupid.  Perhaps they were cast of out their advanced society for it and it is just our misfortune they landed here. Thank you for that. I started laughing at my desk at work and had to explain myself to management... who also are laughing at my desk. I was watching CNN when this came on. The CNN interviewer (Jake Tapper) led into the break by announcing a teaser for the next segment of the Trump interview, proclaiming Trump as being just slightly behind the GOP leader in the polls, Bush. I have no idea where he gets his poll numbers, but was curious enough to look some up ([here](http://www.realclearpolitics.com/epolls/latest_polls/president/)). Evidently Bush is leading, and Trump is second in line. Look at the rest of the republican field. They're all batshit crazy religious fascist, so they're just splitting that vote. And Carly Fiorino who destroyed HP and isn't that well known. So they're you have it. Plus Trump is getting way more media attention than the others.  I like the odds of Trump (R) vs Anyone (D). Seriously. I bet even most Hillary haters would vote for her just out of the sheer fear of a Trump presidency. I'm not sure if he is in someways delusional or just a very shameless smart man... He's clearly just an idiot with inherited wealth  It's only traditional if the three marriages are simultaneous. Or annual. Like the Third Annual Trump Wedding. Its a tradition. Shit, that was creative. Props! Well, if you reject the concept of divorce, then he technically is married to all three. I suppose that depends on if his denomination recognizes the biblical definition of marriage. Omg. The response is even better - by which I mean terrible, and terribly amusing.

If you need a laugh, definitely read the article for his response. When the question was asked that flash of anger in Trumpys eyes was lovely. Guy gets his way to much so it must be hard for him to control his reactions.  The whole "defense of traditional marriage" is the saddest effort at trying to spin a bigoted position as rational.

Traditional Marriage is "one man, one woman" only if you consider "traditional" to be a very recent amount of time...in the US...but only Christian.

This [Infographic](http://i.imgur.com/XTVEfSK.jpg) is relevant as usual.

The anti gay bigots are the ones who want to redefine marriage as what they have decided it to be as of today, and they simply don't have that right.  I think it's important to remember that the people who defended prohibitions on interracial marriages were just "defending traditional marriage" too, and are now recognized as reprehensible bigots.  People need to think about how history is going to view the positions they take today.
 And it doesn't even really offer an argument.  Ok let's defend traditional marriage.  But why?  You're not saying why it's good or better than any non-traditional marriage.  It's just lazy. It's better because Bible.  But 'one man one woman' is hardly the only sort of marriage condoned by the Bible. No, you're misinterpreting it. Only real Christians can understand. Yeah those other parts are metaphor, or they don't apply now because God changed his mind on a whole bunch of things after the NT was released.  Real Christians know this stuff, because our preachers tell us and we believe basically anything they tell us.   And also I have them all my money so they must be right or that makes me an idiot.  Yup I always feel the republican party's arguments in social issues, because Christian values! It's a real shame to see the Republican self-destruct like this. They're failing to provide a real alternative to Democrats and are just holding the country back &gt; You're not saying why it's good or better than any non-traditional marriage.

The usual excuses are:

-Two people of the same sex can't raise a child!

-Homosexuals are just sex-crazed perverts!

-We don't want homosexuals imposing their lifestyles on children!

-My religion is being persecuted!

etc. etc. My favorite argument against gay marriage is that the sex part (*anal* sex) is aberrant. Yet I know of many couples who have anal sex.  Some even have the woman do the man. How I know this is not important. The truth is many people find anal sex pleasurable. Yet, when push comes to shove, so to speak, that's the prime reason many xtians are against same sex marriage.  &gt; How I know this is not important.

LMAO! In conservative mind preserving things that worked has value. What defines conservative is unwillingness to change. It is position that nothing can be done better than already has been done for long time. This is why they are/were resisting all changes, not only related to gay marriage, but, if you look historically, women voting, segregation, slavery. Of course, if change happens and it stands for some time, then conservatives would not want to change it back. Like european conservatives would not go away from universal healthcare. I love how they react as if **only** gay marriage is allowed. 

"I'm not anti-gay. I just support traditional marriage."

"Umm.. You do know traditional marriage is still legal, right?" But if gay people get married then marriage will catch the gay! /s If gay people aren't restricted from being married, then my boyfriend might no longer be happy with keeping our relationship secret and would push me to come out of the closet and marry him.  And as a leading anti-gay preacher that would seriously hurt my income.  So really it's obvious that legalizing gay marriage is an attack on Christianity, and the First Amendment says Christianity trumps everything. &gt;The whole "defense of traditional marriage" is the saddest effort at trying to spin a bigoted position as rational.

It's the oldest trick in the book, really. If you want to attack something, frame it as defending against something else. That's why we have a Department of Defense, run by a Secretary of Defense, who sends troops into other countries all over the world to defend America and defend freedom... &gt;"But what do you say to a lesbian or a gay man? Tapper pressed.

&gt;I really dont say anything, Trump shrugged. 

That's a really good idea, Mr. Trump.   You should give that a try.  And not just to lesbians or to gay men. He should just shut the fuck up all the time. T U C K F R U M P
 trumpW &lt;-- I'm clean F O R S E N B O Y S  trump subs DansGame I understand this reference.  I'm a bot, *bleep*, *bloop*. Someone has linked to this thread from another place on reddit:

- [/r/forsen] [Stop cyberbullying BibleThump](https://np.reddit.com/r/forsen/comments/3bgcct/stop_cyberbullying_biblethump/)

[](#footer)*^(If you follow any of the above links, please respect the rules of reddit and don't vote in the other threads.) ^\([Info](/r/TotesMessenger/wiki/) ^/ ^[Contact](/message/compose/?to=\/r\/TotesMessenger))*

[](#bot) "Some people are born on third base and go through life thinking they hit a triple."  --Barry Switzer He looks so orange.

You can see the outline from the goggles he'd use when getting a spray on tan. And I am sure he is a faithful husband... [deleted] Speaking on behalf of fat hairy male-on-male urinators: ew. That's an insult to people who like to get peed on by fat hairy men. He might be.  Depends on the details of the pre-nup. *Sigh* my mother says she would vote for this man. A vote for Trump in the primaries is a vote to keep the GOP out of the white house. Yeah, but that's just flirting with danger. Bush got elected...twice. and I'm fairly certain that he was half retarded.  Bush ran a competent campaign compared to the recent GOP nutters. He had a broader coalition than anyone currently in the primary has minus maybe his brother. Remember, in 2000, Bush was a compassionate conservative, which played to the moderates. He also had decent support among Hispanics - a group the GOP is likely to lose in staggering numbers in 2016. The most traditional forms of marriage are 1 man + many women, and arranged marriage for political or social gain. It's pure delusion for Christians to believe they invented marriage, or that 1 man + 1 woman was the most prolific form. 

And let's not forget what the marriage licenses was invented for in the first place: to prevent interracial marriage. The idea of state sanctioned relationships is so ingrained into society now, no one really stops to think about how absurd and draconian the whole thing is.  To be fair, Marriage as a government sanctioned covenant since Sumer and Babylon. Back in 2012, Chris Matthews pointed out, "The Mormon is the only Republican nomination candidate with one wife." "My first two wives were very good".

It's like he's talking about a fucking sandwich he ate once. Typical spray-tanned billionaire attitude. He really didn't answer the question, did he? He said he was a hard worker. Sheesh.

(take that with a hefty dose of /s) Yes, he did.  He conceded the reporter's point that his stance is hypocritical. I like Donald running...he provides a distinct stench of illegitimacy to that whole side of the aisle.  It's almost like he is the magnifying glass on what the GOP really thinks.  

And what he thinks is obviously garbage. "i really dont say anything"
- bc im the type of person who says shit behind peoples backs and supports legislation that oppresses people. whats the big deal, guy? I think its funny how he apparently has no opinions about marriage between a gay couple. He appears to support the words "Traditional Marriage" but nothing about what they actually represent. Well, they have a very good point, Trump admitted.

Period.

No need to say any more. Read transcript and thought "I'm just Jake for traditional marriage" was a new expression.
"I'm just Jake".  Eh, I'm not quite Jake for traditional marriage.  I'm a bit Less Than Jake. I'm just Jake from State Farm. From State Farm? The entire interview is fantastic and worth a watch. Really makes Trump look ignorant on many topics and opinions.

https://youtu.be/D-_C57uWV3c ... and you're kidding yourselves if you think that Republican voters care whether Trump has been married three times and is morally hypocritical. They're not against same-sex marriage because of a rational position; they're against same-sex marriage because they're illogical, brainwashed, fag-hating bigots.

You cannot reason with Republicans. Pretty much "You can only get married for the third time once." He says what all hypocrites say when called on their bullshit. The same thing only louder. Which traditional marriage?  The one where you trade your daughter for goats and chickens or the one where you get to have multiple wives? Too bad Anderson Cooper didn't interview him. That would be some sex tape. traditional upper class douchebags marriage = get younger wife every few years. That was quite the Trump card he pulled out. So its okay because he's "very hardworking"? But if a gay person is hardworking tough And like most of the very, very rich Trump doesn't even work that hard. "I have a great wife now. My [first] two wives were very good.

Ah- I get it.

The wives scale: "poor", "good", "very good" and "great".  Don't stop marrying and divorcing until you *think* you've got "great". Trump is the stereotypical uber rich guy who has to have a young 'trophy' wife.  That's what it comes down to. They just need to have an Indian interview him. 

"I believe in traditional marriage." 

"Oh, so your marriage was arranged by your parents?" 

"No, not-" 

"Cause I'm pretty sure that's what's traditional." I believe in traditional marriage between a man and a series of progressively younger women.  What I find really disturbing is that he says Chief Justice Roberts let him down. Roberts wrote a scathing dissent on the ruling. Did trump even read it?  Does he have any idea of how the court works? Traditional marriage is when your father sells you to his neighbor's family for 20 pounds of rice and a goat, and if they find out (or imagine) that you're not a virgin, they kill you for bringing shame to the household.  It's called serial polygamy.  Frequent divorce and remarriage has actually been institutionalized in some cultures, and in America. the things he says on national TV are hilarious, yet at the same time scary considering he actually has supporters  It's very traditional and biblical - except the part about not being married to all three at the same.   So basically he's saying "Yeah I guess you got me there, but uh, still doesn't matter". Like reasoning with a 3 year old... I don't know too much about American politics, but I seriously believe that Trump running for the Republican nomination is just a ploy in order to make the other Republican nominees seem less conservative. He will drop out, and then endorse someone immediately. And that guy's views won't be nearly as right wing as Trump's. 

 I could see that being said for someone like Santorum or Huckabee, but Trump isn't even really 'more conservative' than some of the other candidates. He's just a cartoonish egomaniac with a lot of money. 

I think overall his candidacy will probably hurt the GOP overall because he's going to spend so much of his time publicly attacking frontrunner Jeb Bush without much decorum.  &gt; And that guy's views won't be nearly as right wing as Trump's. 

Thing is, there isn't really anyone like that in the race. &gt; I really dont say anything, Trump shrugged. Im just, Jake, Im for traditional marriage.

Coward can't even take a stance.  Shut the fuck up, Donny. You're out of your element.  Any bets he'll be divorced again?  "Look Jake, I'm very rich..." Historically its very traditional. So is polygamy. What's traditional about a nearly 50 percent divorce rate? Translation:
I have no response to justify why I can get married and divorced several times while trying to persecute gay people. Here's my original stance that you've just successfully shot down again. He is horrible, in every possible sense.  "I'm a hardworking man" derp a derp derp... could you please answer the question Mr. Trump? Fuck Trump fuck Trump Im honestly scared about him running for president and i'm not even American.  He claims to be Presbyterian.  it's only bad when a "negro" or poor person does it.  instead of tweeting #lovewins can we start tweeting #lovetrumps  'It is easier for a camel to pass through the eye of a needle than it is for a rich man to enter the kingdom of God'
This is so important a point for the authors, its repeated in the bible twice.
When are people going to start questioning these invariably mega rich people about this when they invoke the 'will of God' I mean, Trump did it whilst bragging about how much money he has, then goes on to use the bible to justify his bigotry. The simple question to all of them should be 'If you want to live by the bible, why haven't you given your money away yet?'
It is ALWAYS the bit they ignore (you can add in the duck dynasty lot, the Duggans and every presidential candidate to that list for a start). I'm in favour of mint choc chip ice cream but I don't stop others having strawberry  Fuck Donald Trump.  When Tuck Frump isn't bullying an Asian guy any more.  Shots... fired.
 He's got that Republican hypocrisy down for sure. Trump is a douche nozzle with no chance of winning the election.  Lol, what a ridiculous orange faced piece of shit.  American politics is fucked. Republican primary voters are, on average, whiter, older and more socially conservative than even the Republican party as a whole. For many of them, a handful of catchphrases do the trick, and 'traditional marriage' is shaping up to be one of the key catchphrases this election cycle.

Trump might be a fucking idiot, but he's not stupid. Looking to shine a light on this clown's hypocrisy, this was probably the perfect question for the host to ask. But, given his goals of brand exposure and "hangin' in there" through at least the first debate, Trump's response was also the perfect answer.   This makes me so mad .. He fact everyone's talking about Donald trump and not the tpp is fucking outrageous our media is not there to help us "And actually, I have a great marriage, I have a great wife now. My [first] two wives were very good." 

That is fucking hilarious.  Yeah if only he was married to all 3 at once, now that's traditional!  Stupid millionaire. Lots, if you stay married to all of them.  He trumped the Trump.  Tuck Frump What a lying Phony....He was so hard at work.....NO he was cheating on at least two women ( his first two wives) and probably cheating on his mistresses too.  He missed a good retort: "I'd tell them that I love traditional marriage so much that I did it three times!". So homosexuals AREN'T hard working, and their relationships AREN'T meaningful?  he is *such* a fuckhead.  and while i don't go for subs like /r/punchablefaces...just look at his smug demeanor.  i'd be about 0.000034% happier if i just didn't have to consider anything trump said/did/felt/believed/wanted ...ever again. You know that if the cameras were off, he would have struck with his prehensile toupee', strangled the reporter then suspended him upside down and drained his blood. My mother is especially excited. She owns a cake business. For real. Anyone in the marriage (divorce?) business must be over the f'ing moon right now!
 Divorces are gonna be brutal. All that sass, suddenly released in a heartbroken rage? Divorce Judge shows are gonna have a spike in ratings like no tomorrow. My grandparents are Jehovah's Witnesses and own the BEST cake shop in town AND their son, my half uncle, is gay. But I don't know if they ever allowed themselves to do gay-marriage cakes. Hmm... I wonder how they feel about all this from a business stand-point.  Rick Santorum and Ted Cruz can finally get hitched. All we need is to legalise polygamy and Mike Huckabee can join in.  No, no.  The law still stipulates that the participants must be human. Hey don't joke about that! Legalising bestiality is now inevitable, you know. My priest told me so.  A bad day for Scalia is a good day for America. When Scalia stubs his toe a liberal somewhere finds a $20 on the ground Well that explains monday!  His quote in the article is fucking hilarious, too. 
&gt;Scalia called the decision a threat to American democracy, saying it was constitutional revision by an unelected committee of nine.

Like, really? Do you even hear yourself talk? DOGS AND CATS LIVING TOGETHER *MASS* HYSTERIA! You will have saved the lives of millions of registered voters... When someone asks you if you're a god, you say "YES!"
 Statement by the Supreme Court

Choices about marriage shape an individuals destiny.

The nature of marriage is that, through its enduring bond, two persons together can find other freedoms, such as expression, intimacy, and spirituality.

Marriage responds to the universal fear that a lonely person might call out only to find no one there. It offers the hope of companionship and understanding and assurance that while both still live there will be someone to care for the other. Who the fuck let a poetry major write the statement? God damn poetry makers always having sentiments and shit. Judges, especially the top ones, are usually quite good writers. I never plan to get married, but that is beautiful and is almost making me tear up at work.  "....penned by Justice Anthony Kenned" 

For the curious folks asking who wrote the statement.  Everybody grab a lawn chair and some popcorn. Here comes the apocalypse :D  I took a dive into the sewers of rightwing forums and blogs, and the spitting outrage, and stupidity, is everything I could ever hoped for.  Everything from secession, to war, to Armageddon, to everything in between.  Craziness maximized. &gt; this country is going to shit, I'm moving to Canada.

Poor ignorant fuckers. Wait until they find out about the ObamaCare they have up there! [](/lunateehee)I expect as many cries about this as when interracial marriage was legalized. They used the exact same arguments as back then to oppose it, so I also expect the same reaction. [Literally exactly the same arguments](http://youtu.be/A8JsRx2lois) [](/sunsetshimmer)I was thinking of that video when I wrote my comment. Have an upvote. [](/cadance)You're right of course. [](/ppfear) Absolutely.  We have a long road ahead.[](/sp)

[](/flutterjerk) At least personally, I will get to enjoy my relatives bitching about it for many years to come.  &amp; I'll just be standing there like, "Supreme Court, bitches.  Sit.  The.  Fuck.  Down."[](/sp)

Edit: formatting. :D &gt; "Supreme Court, bitches. Sit. The. Fuck. Down."

[](/ssyay) I laughed *way* too hard at this.

[](/sp)[](/ssfacehoof) I know what their response will be though: "Gawd is above the supreme court!"

[](/sp)[](/twismile "By the way, use [](/sp) to make the emotes go on the next line.") [](/motherofgod)My god is so powerful that 5 elderly people in black robes can overrule his will. [](/sunsetjoy)Don't forget, it was 5 elderly people in robes VS god *and* 4 elderly people in robes.

[](/sp)[](/sssoda)Therefore, the math states that god is less powerful than a single elderly person in robes.
 [](/ppmath)It's math. You can't argue with math. [](/nerdsunset)Incidentally, a being weaker than a single elderly person in robes is far too weak to be called a god.

[](/sp)[](/magicmissile "As long as that elderly person in robes isn't a level 20 D&amp;D wizard at least.")

[](/sp)[](/celestiawut-r)... Wait, did I just mathematically disprove the existence of the abrahamic god? [](/saveme)We've entered a terrifying new realm of mathematical godlessness.  I'm a Canadian currently in the U.S. for vacation, is shit going to go down? [](/secretponythread) Glitter is everywhere. Stores are running out of flannel. That guy from Will &amp; Grace just got offered 17 television pilots. Only if you count "shit going down" as people bitching and complaining on Facebook.  Yeah. Should be an interesting few weeks here in the south. &gt; Should be an interesting few decades here in the south.



Given their slow approach to everything including fast food it could be a long wait.  I mean some of them just confirmed the 14th amendment. -ignit bot-

The Fourteenth Amendment (Amendment XIV) to the United States Constitution was adopted on July 9, 1868, as one of the Reconstruction Amendments. The amendment addresses citizenship rights and equal protection of the laws, and was proposed in response to issues related to former slaves following the American Civil War. SO OBAMA IS MORE EVOLVED THAN GOD??? Genesis



22 Then the LORD God made a woman from the riba1 he had taken out of the man, and he brought her to the man.                                                                                                                                                                            

23 The man said, "This is now bone of my bones and flesh of my flesh;2 she shall be called3 'woman,b ' for she was taken out of man.4"  References for Genesis 2:2324 For this reason a man will leave his father and mother and be united5 to his wife, and they will become one flesh My new favorite novelty account  If you took all gay men put them on a island and all gay women on a island and all straight people and put them on a island in 200 years which island would still be populated? This is the progress liberals think is good, but im all for it, if GAY is not a choice they should all be dead in another 50 years!!! Ironically the only island left with people on it would end up having gay people after 200 years.

Blame the straight people, they're the ones that keep making gay babies. :p Its funny that I know this is a novelty but it still bugs me. Can my pet Giraffe now get a drivers license? I love her so much. Justice Kennedy said I could.  While this is great, it bugs me that the vote was 5-4. doesnt matter, got gay married /thread Good luck getting Scalia to support anything remotely progressive. You'll have to wait for folks like him to die off. True Dat. Scalia has gone on record as believing in the Devil. Not like, the metaphysical idea of the personification of evil that manifests as malintent in humans. No; he believes a little red hooved man runs around making mischief, playing fiddles in Georgia, and generally messing with shit. 

Like... That's catastrophically retarded.  I may be wrong, but I think the majority of Christians (in America at least) believe in the literal devil.  I just had an image of the "Literal Devil".

He hangs around libraries and gives talks on books that have been burned by evangelicals. Unfortunately, with the wrong president, Ginsburg, Breyer, and Kennedy will be replaced with younger versions of Thomas, Scalia, and Alito.  

For that reason ALONE, it is absolutely necessary not to vote in a crazy person on this next round. Scalia and Thomas are hopeless ideologues.  Roberts is a disappointment. &gt; Roberts is a disappointment.

At least Roberts' dissent is along the lines of "I agree with the sentiment, but not the legal justification the majority gave." Very skillful tightrope walk. In some sentiments I agree with his statement, but I feel as though every time we've left a social justice issue to democracy it hasn't worked. 

Popular votes didn't free the slaves, give women voting rights, declare segregated schools unconstitutional or abolish Jim Crow laws. It took government institutions of elected officials to create and enforce these actions.

EDIT: I just wanted to clarify one bit of my statement; by democracy I meant simple democracy/popular vote, as opposed to a democratic republic. &gt; It took government institutions of elected officials to create and enforce these actions.

But I think that was part of his point as well, that a court of 9 *unelected* officials made this decision.

However, it's not like it is unprecedented, interracial marriage was legalized by the Supreme Court too, and the same arguments were used in this case. Without SCOTUS action, I think some states would still have bans on interracial marriage, so sometimes we need the courts to pull everyone into the same century, especially in cases of civil rights. That's the weird thing about this one. If we had actually tried to pass a referendum, it theoretically would pass (as long as demographics vote evenly, and they don't).  Conservative religious judges. They have a history of ruling in favor of what supports their personal beliefs. ...like believing that corporations are people and that money == speech. &gt; money == speech

Found a programmer :P My favorite tweet so far: http://i.imgur.com/WuyDKTR.png Oh, sweet. OK Cupid just hasn't been working for me. Time to go get gay Obamamarried! There will be a random bad event happen somewhere...  And the locals will claim God is upset. The french taxi driver's are protesting uber! It's all the homosexual's fault! Something.. something.. man and woman French government just banned Uber actually.  They gave in.  Thats kinda jacked up.  ***"MY TOILET WON'T FLUSH BECAUSE QUEERS CAN MARRY EACH OTHER... GOD IS JUDGING US!!!"*** &gt;it must be emphasized that religions, and those
who adhere to religious doctrines, may continue to advocate
with utmost, sincere conviction that, by divine precepts,
same-sex marriage should not be condoned. The
First Amendment ensures that religious organizations and
persons are given proper protection as they seek to teach
the principles that are so fulfilling and so central to their
lives and faiths, and to their own deep aspirations to
continue the family structure they have long revered. The
same is true of those who oppose same-sex marriage for
other reasons. In turn, those who believe allowing samesex
marriage is proper or indeed essential, whether as a
matter of religious conviction or secular belief, may engage
those who disagree with their view in an open and searching
debate. The Constitution, however, does not permit
the State to bar same-sex couples from marriage on the
same terms as accorded to couples of the opposite sex.

Why this is so fucking hard for people to understand, I will myself never understand.

YOU can believe whatever the fuck you want. YOU do not have the right to enforce your bullshit beliefs on ME. If there is no secular reason to ban something, then you can't ban it. If your only reason for banning something is religious, then fuck off. &gt; If your only reasons for banning something is religious, then fuck off.

Sounds like a good TL;DR for the majority? Soon the South will declare the War of Sucksession. they no longer have their flag tho! OMG it was all part of the plan all along...  volunteer state here. i couldnt be happier.my cuzin has been with his man for 23 years . and I am going to get to go to their wedding soon. and I never thought id be able to Loving v. Virginia was unanimous. 

How far we've fallen.

Im happy we won, sad it was so close. I'm not an American, but that was the same thing I thought when I saw the numbers 5:4. But then I realized what the news meant for the USA and that's what matters! I can't remember the last time there was an important vote that wasn't 5-4. That's just the way our current supreme court does things. Very partisan unfortunately.

Edit: fair enough, yesterday there was a big 6:3. That said, I stand by the fact that the vast majority of "controversial" cases go to 5:4 decision.  Yesterday's Obamacare decision was 6-3. I work in the bible belt at a blue collar job, my coworkers are losing their fucking minds right now and I'm just sitting here grinning ear to ear. Score one for logic and reason!
Edit: Thank you for the gold stranger! It kinda' makes me wish I lived in a southern state besides FL, just to see the red necks freak out. Read the fox news comments, it's like being there WITHOUT having to injest all the salt.

For example:

"DON'T GET IN MY FACE.  DON'T GET NEAR ME OR MY CHILDREN AND GRANDCHILDREN.  DON'T EXPECT ME TO EVEN LOOK IN YOUR DIRECTION.  I WILL TURN MY BACK AND GET AS FAR AWAY FROM THE ABOMINATION THAT YOU ARE.  SICK, SICK, SICK."

"the law of man is nothing compared to the wrath of God.....forgive us Father and have mercy on us.."

"So the court wants to play God?  Not smart.  God is NOT mocked!"

"Sad News, I hope the Catholic church will not allow the ceremonies in church, Let the union be performed by Obama he seems to think he is the Messiah!"

"Another sick day for the US. I'm not a christian but this was a bad decision. Think of the harm the court just did against the adopted children of these very sick people."
 Those comments are in reference to interracial marriage, right? You could play "Black or Gay?" - take George Wallace or Fred Phelps quotes, shuffle "Black" and "Gay" around, and see if you can tell the difference. Someone mention this to the writing staff at The Daily Show. Oh jeez. You just made me realise something. John Oliver is gonna have a bloody field day with this on Last Week Tonight. &gt; "Another sick day for the US. I'm not a christian but this was a bad decision. Think of the harm the court just did against the adopted children of these very sick people."

That made me say an audible "Oh, fuck YOU!" :)

Edit: my wife is a social worker who's seen many gay couples adopt and save kids from getting shuffled around from one foster family to another. Seriously two loving parents ( or even one) is better than a kid being stuck in shitty home after home. ( not that all foster homes are bad) Sooooooo much crazy... Its Amazing to watch. Three grown men pitching full blown temper tantrums hahaha. And to think I almost took today off and would have missed this. Don't worry I'm 100% certain that they'll be bringing crazy to every tv, website, vlog, radio, and billboard near you in the coming days.  On an unrelated note I need to go pickup some popcorn.  I feel I don't have nearly enough. http://2.bp.blogspot.com/-reD5LXzUqi8/VGIzpnZ2mSI/AAAAAAAAgqU/GMpq8z1aSCw/s1600/sorre%2BIm%2Blate%2Bhad%2Bto%2Bget%2Benough%2Bpopcorn%2Bfor%2Ball%2Bof%2Bus.jpg Someone alert Val Kilmer, we're going to need a lot of popcorn. And a URL shortener. Dude, that is a deep reference.

Bravo! It's dangerous to go   
alone.  Take these.  
*   []()    *   Go listen to Ann Coulter right now.  Whelp, as a Canadian I have never had the pleasure of listening to this.. um..  conservative robot?  I've now spent 5 min on her website......  your conservatives are scary fucking crazy.  Like, no grasp on easily discovered elements of reality crazy.  How do you guys manage down there?  Poorly. But we generally survive. (native Texan)  Also a Texan.

I plan on keeping my mouth shut at work today and finding out who the bigots are. We survive because people like her are a smaller minority than the volume of their voices would lead you to believe.  So satisfying, they were so used to bigotry to being the status quo when they preached hatred, now they look hysterical they always looked hysterical to me.  It worries me that so many "adults" act worse than toddlers and hold beliefs that would have them locked in a mental institution if not for the protections afforded to religion. Already happened https://twitter.com/bryanjfischer/status/614447075892293632 [**@BryanJFischer**](https://twitter.com/BryanJFischer/)

&gt; [2015-06-26 14:56 UTC](https://twitter.com/BryanJFischer/status/614447075892293632)

&gt; June 26, 2015: the day the twin towers of truth and righteousness were blown up by moral jihadists.

----

^This ^message ^was ^created ^by ^a ^bot

[^[Contact ^creator]](http://www.np.reddit.com/message/compose/?to=jasie3k&amp;amp;subject=TweetsInCommentsBot)[^[Source ^code]](https://github.com/janpetryk/reddit-bot)
 Gay marriage can't melt steel beams. (fav. comment) Trust me, you don't.  I live in MS.  My Facebook feed alone would make any semi-intelligent person want to gouge their eyes out.  People who i know well and thought were good and compassionate people have become raging bigots and hypocrites. The whole gay marriage and confederate flag issue have really driven home how deluded and vastly under-educated the South is in America. I guess I'm lucky living in CT.  My entire Facebook feed is full of rainbow flags and happiness.  California here: nothing but love and happiness on my FB, as well. Besides, whenever I see someone talk about the crazy they are on their front page, I always think, why are you friends with those kinds of people?! Come up to north Florida...I'm sure between the two of us, we have more teeth than my whole county I work in Georgia and nobody at my office gives two shits. Business as usual here. I do work in IT, not blue collar though... I live in one. You don't want to see the rednecks freak out. They don't freak out in a cute way. It's very creepy and xenophobic.  East TN checking in. Someone in my office just said, "Well, its a sad day. The supreme court ruled gay marriage is ok. Almost as sad as the day prayer was banned from public schools." Did you tell them that it wasn't? School officials just can't lead prayers or compel participation. But kids can pray all they want. I don't understand why anyone thinks two other people getting marries affects their life at all.  That said, I am very worried that there will be more right wing terrorist attacks in the next few days as a result of this ruling.   Would be interesting if that happened and led to churches losing their tax-free status. Oh you sweet beautiful optimist, you. Stay mad religious nut jobs.  Their tears are delicious. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Ula8oi_M4Ww I'm in Atlanta and the majority of people around me are excited for this ruling. 

This is more accepted in the South than people seem to think.  You're in the violet-blue bubble. Drive down 75 until you're past Macon and stop anywhere else and see what opinions you get. Haha I love those little towns! You are absolutely correct, but isn't that true even if California? It's more an urban vs rural thing, cities are always more democratic and liberal. I hear you.

 Atlanta, invluding the suburbs, makes up about 50% of the state's population.  Currently in Greenville SC and all my friends are super hyped for it but our families on the other hand..... To be fair, big cities anywhere are typically pretty progressive. It's the outskirts and rural areas where the bigotry is still running wild. Yea but the good news is that half the state lives in the Metro area. Where's the pastor that was going to set himself on fire? He probably had a vision that told him he needed to remain on earth to carry on the good fight. A convenient revelation, like when the Mormons have visions of god demanding them to have multiple subservient wives... "What? It's not cool to hate blacks anymore? Ummmm, hold on... I'm getting something. Ooooooooom. Ooooooooooom. It's god, he says blacks is cool now. Give 'em the priesthood." More like: What? Blacks have money now? ... The streets of the south should be alight with pastors. But they won't be. 

They don't buy into their own bullshit.  Bingo. Indeed this will probably create good attendance this weekend and mean even more tax free money. It's a win for them as long as the sheep stay hate-filled. *cough* Palin *cough* Duggar *cough*. Oh, excuse my horrible sickness. Or the couple that would divorce? That was in Australia, so I'm not sure if they'd divorce for gay marriage in the US. I think they were Australian, so I don't think this counts in their eyes. Didn't he say that he wouldn't support gay marriage even if someone threatened to burn him alive?  That's a much more faithful representation of what he actually said. Just look for smoke and the smell of bacon. Or far more likely: No smoke and the smell of bullshit. https://youtu.be/LkIWmsP3c_s?t=1m46s First Obamacare, now gay marriage?  With one fell swoop SCOTUS has made it impossible for me to be a holier-than-thou Canadian any more. Canada's healthcare system is still light years ahead of Obamacare.  So feel free to continue to talk down to us in the US about healthcare.  No need to take down that fake halo just yet.

Obamacare is like stitches on a huge, infected wound.  It sealed it up but it's still infected.  The rate of health care (and subsequently, insurance) price inflation has slowed but it still continues.

The cost to become a doctor continues to grow as well and actually outpaces the rate of healthcare pricing (e.g. procedures, checkups, etc).  So Canada's free college education is another advantage your system provides over ours.

If the cost to become a doctor continues to increase at the current pace it will become unobtainable for all but the wealthiest and there aren't enough wealthy people to fill that gap.  So we're on the cusp of a, "not enough doctors" crisis and this will probably escalate the price inflation even more. &gt; Canada's free college education

What? Pretty sure I'm still paying for mine whilst also saving for my kids'. Congrats to america! We finally did something right!

&gt; That's right patriots. The USA if bringing the freedom train home. If you didn't think it was possible for this country to be any more free hold on to your freedom boners because it just did.

&gt; Take that you damn commies.

Has to be the funniest comment I've read in a while.

Edit: I'd like to make it known that some of the comments in the /r/christianity thread about this very topic are absolutely mind boggling. Not all, but there is some serious cherry picking going on.

Edit 2: Oh, I'd like to also let this be known that I have an historic event that happened on my birthday! "You can always count on Americans to do the right thing - after they've tried everything else." -- WC Justice Kennedy wrote an opinion that will stand the test of time. Truly beautiful. And to think, just 11 years ago in 2004, marriage equality bans were on the ballot across America to turn out the conservative vote. It is truly amazing how far we have come in just 11 years.

As an ally, I will always be inspired by LGBT members who have suffered abuse - some even losing their lives - by living openly and freely and unafraid. YOU changed minds. YOU made this possible. Celebrate with vigor today, you have earned it. Oh boy. I think it's time to stay off Facebook for a while. If your don't like it, move to Uganda. Don't wish more American fundies on Uganda. They've got enough of them already. Today is a great and historic day in the USA.  Reason has overcome prejudice, and compassion has overcome hate.  I feel privileged to be here at this moment.  There are still battles left to fought, but today the Rubicon is crossed.  Let us savor the moment. *And* I can finally marry my dog now! Just checked, r/christianity is mostly positive about it, and r/catholicism is mostly flipping out XD /r/catholicism is experiencing a rectal prolapse. If one were to believe them the apocalypse is on Sunday when California and Seattle have their pride parades.  Wow.  The catho crowd is using so many logical fallacies in all their arguments over there.  So many start their post with varieties of "this begs the question".  The FauxNews is strong over there. So many tears and assumptions that gays are targeting the church next.


Psst, the gays are already there and serving. /r/Christianity currently has a stickier post saying that the ruling isn't related to Christianity, so they won't allow posts about it.

Wow. Suck it, bigots. That's exactly what they're so mad about, though. I'm honestly surprised that it was that close of a ruling. 5-4 on what should be a fairly straightforward case on civil rights. Nah, the regressive vote was already predictable. Scalia's probably already drunk. Honestly, the real wonder of all of this is that it was actually allowed to come to a vote at all. It must be one of the few days rational people ACTUALLY wish to live in the bible belt. Watch those bigots go crazy. Popcorn not included. It's about fucking time.  Hilarious that the wingnuts have had the Confederate flag issue, Obamacare and now this all happen in the last week. I bet their tiny little minds are about to explode You tie religious views like marriage to laws and this is what you get. 

"Oh no, it's so unfair that a mate can now visit their loved one in the hospital as a family member, that's just taking away all my rights as a pompous asshole."

I'm not gay but I have gay friends because they are just people and they don't try to have sex with me. This whole right-winged stance of "protecting" marriage is such bullshit and hypocrisy, it makes me angry.

They want to quote Leviticus but not the other bat-shit insane things he wrote down. Go back to having your gay-sex scandals with the pool boys in secret and let people love who the hell they want.

&lt;/rant&gt; Going to an alcohol-free rehearsal dinner tonight in North Carolina for ultra conservative relatives. Will be wearing my finest...shit-eating grin and will gladly engage in debate with all who voice bigoted opinions. However, my wife has threatened to make me walk home if I talk religion or politics, so I'll be wearing running shoes with that grin. 

On a separate note, congratulations to all who have had to live by other people's rules all this time. Much love to all. It's really helping me purge my Facebook of bigots. I am not a gay, damn I am not even an American. But I am so happy today O(_)O I am having fun listening to the phone calls on C-SPAN. I'm here all teary-eyed because my marriage is now recognized in my home state, and these people are teary-eyed because they think this decision somehow affects them in any way. If anything, they should be happy because people will stop talking about it so much. All the religious folks that threatened to light themselves on fire if this happened, they better deliver! OP (outraged pastor) never delivers.  I am straight. I've been waiting for this day. I'm happy and so overjoyed to see that my brother is able to marry wherever his heart desires AND whomever. :) great day in history  Both homophobes and gays are going to have buthurt tonight.  [This](http://i.imgur.com/VskGtfs.jpg) about sums up how I feel about my country right now. I listen to talk radio in the morning and the hosts are still going on about "preachers/pastors/priests will be put in jail for not marrying gay couples" and "people will lose their jobs if they say they are against same-sex marriage." (They bought into both the David Barton and John Hagee brands of BS quite some time ago.) They've been going on (and on, and on) about this for almost 2 hours.

I can only shake may head in exasperation and roll my eyes at yet another "OMG, they've burned the US Constitution and the country is going to become Nazi Germany!" First it was the government death panels, now they are sending pastors to re-education camps for not supporting the gay agenda.  What is this nation coming to? The bible recognized to be a tool of oppression again. Now let's go after the ridiculous tax breaks that superstitious folks eat up. I'm not gay but I'm happy for gay people. I'm even happier that throwing a big hissy fit over this will only fuel the marginalization of religion in this country further. 

Please let them go out and publicly demonstrate their ignorance and let everyone see the religion for what it is. A dying institution.  The sound of catholic and mormons heads exploding . . . . music to my ears. As a European this is rather unexpected for me, but on the other side the USA would see the light at some point or another. This will be remembered as an important victory for the USA.  So forgive me if I should already know, but what's next?

Can folks just go start picking up licenses? Or should we expect a bunch of appeals like we've seen at the state level?

Like at state levels I do expect to see clerks and various officials stomping their feet in protest. It seems like maybe this time they can't outright refuse to service these folks as it's the law?

I'll be happily performing gay weddings as needed once I understand what all the implications are. People in Ohio and Michigan are reportedly applying for and receiving marriage certificates now. While the states could wait for the lower courts to issue injunctions on the band, some at least are taking the ruling as immediately efficacious.  &gt; Can folks just go start picking up licenses?

Yep.

It may vary by area as to how quickly local folks get on board, of course, but it shouldn't take more than a month; at most they can say they don't have the forms appropriately adjusted yet, and even that is iffy. Pretty sure there's be at least *one* courthouse in each of the handful of states that hadn't already legalized which were prepared.

There will be no appeals, because this was the United States Supreme Court. You can't appeal past them. They're the highest ones you can appeal to. The only way this changes is if SCOTUS *reverses* their decision (not gonna happen anytime soon, but possible in a few decades with different justices) or if there's an amendment to the US Constitution (definitely not happening). I texted my mom this news and said "plus one for humanity!" She hasn't texted back all day. I feel so bad because she genuinely believes satan is taking over the US. So I live in Oklahoma. This is probably the best thing to ever happen. Seeing all these people who are against gay marriage freak out is amazing. All I think about and tell people is "don't you want people to be happy?" Then they say "This is an insult to god." I simply reply "Didn't god say to treat others how you would want to be treated?" They shut up or freak out more because they know I'm right. This is a good time to live.  Is there anything more entertaining than watching fox news having to report on this?  I can see the despair in their eyes and it is awesome! It's sad that in a country that promotes freedom, that this had to go to the highest court... Sigh About damn time.

However, I'm not sure whether to anticipate the cries of bigots happily, laughing at their stupidity, or be genuinely concerned in the idea that their lack of intelligence may serve as a catalyst for harming LGBT individuals in the more conservative states. Do you really think there will be a collective outcry of "oh my, the SCOTUS says we're wrong! We must be wrong! Sorry gay people!"

I doubt there will be mass rioting, but I expect some random violence over the weekend at least. Yeah, precisely. The people against this bill are essentially the same people that are utterly convinced that gay people are like, the work of  Satan, and that the Bible is a source for factual material. They're not just gonna flop over their belly.

To the people that live in those said deeply conservative areas, I would suggest it's ultimately beneficial to remember to prioritize your safety, assuming that we are going to see violence this weekend.

I'm really hoping that nothing too bad will happen outside of them ranting on media outlets about how their life is apparently ruined because people of the same sex are now able to marry nationwide. Being a lesbian, I am very excited! first person to say "why is this in /r/atheism?" gets punched in the neck. You appear to be the first. Punch incoming! (use of quotation marks is no defense). #FALCON PUNCH! #IN THE NECK! Alright, I'm expecting a burning pastor or two.  Looks like this Friday is going to become a HUGE shitstorm of craziness in the media.  This should be fun. I moderate the off topic section of a gaming forum.  It's going to be a hell of a day. The saddest part is having to make this legal.  When did we ever have to look to authority to be humans.  I am straight, but cannot fathom how anyone could deny love to people who roll differently. So glad to be alive to witness this finally happening. My big concern though is where will the rage be directed now? I guess there's still abortion clinics, strip joints, sex education, and dildo shops to cry about... No not the dildo shops! Oh the humanity!!! Common Sense Rules ... BRAVO! Well, I don't know about "rules," but at least it got a majority vote.  Such a wonderful and correct decision is really only possible within Western society. 

Becasue it's going to be at least another 50 years before LGBT individuals living within islamic dominated regions are allowed to live and love openly.. Fuck yeah! Seems I was a little hasty unfriending my fundie aunts. I would've been amusing seeing them losing their shit. [It has begun.](http://talkingpointsmemo.com/news/texas-issues-gay-marriage-certificates-county-clerks)

&gt; In Travis County, Texas, Gena Dawson and Charlotte Rutherford were the first same-sex couple in the state to receive a marriage license, within two hours of the ruling. Finally!  My dreams of watching gay divorce court will be realized! Wow...is it just me, or this came out of nowhere? I had no idea this was on the agenda.

Anyway, this is great news. Congratulations, people of America! Great step forward indeed. Yay progress, but 5-4 is pretty scary considering the only real objection to gay marriage is for religious reasons. 

That means 4 justices of the Supreme Court still believe that the words in the bible are more important than civil rights...

Amazing win for civil rights, but it really puts into perspective how close this decision was to going to wrong way. So, I'm getting sucked into squabbles with family members (who are very religious) over this. Some points they are raising that I am hesitant to refute until I make sure I know what the hell I'm talking about:

* The states were superseded by the supreme court, and that wrests away their ability to make their own decisions. What if it was a ruling on something that you didn't agree with? They then paraphrased one of the judges: They have forced a single definition of marriage where our constitution has an open interpretation. Let's not let five attorney's enforce a single point of view
* This is a blow against the democratic process.
* For the federal court to make a decision that there is "one right answer" defeats the purpose of having state law and a direct ability for citizens to make decisions and define what they accept or don't accept as marriage.
* It is scary when our government exercises such a power to lay down their own definition on something that is still heavily debated.

Thoughts?
 - This is how democracy works. We have elected representatives and they have put judges on that bench. It was never about the will of the people, it is about law. Desegregation was not done by popular vote either. 

- No. 

- There is only one right answer though. Equality for all, as per the constitution. 

- So? Again, the same thing happened with desegregation and interracial marriage. Your family members can get with the times or be remembered in the same light as the racist fuckwits that protested equal rights for people of colour.  You could make these points against every single SCOTUS decision ever.  Like when they upheld interracial marriage
 Bill O'Reilly is outraged by todays news!   Marriage should be between a man and the woman he chokes out!     Human rights +1 

Religious Intolerance 0 [The people at Free Republic are absolutely freaking out.](http://www.freerepublic.com/focus/f-news/3304539/posts) Ok, so which reality tv channel is going to be first to feature Gay Bridezillas?  If Malia Obama was pregnant out of wedlock, aliens could land on Times Square with a solution to all of Earth's problems and nobody would ever know about it because the news would be about that pregnancy wall-to-wall 24/7. When the anchor interrupted the senator speaking about the NSA and privacy to cover the Justin Bieber arrest...mfw... For those curious: https://youtu.be/XtcucHPkFkg It's like the movie Idiocracy coming to life I just watched that film followed by a video about a creation "museum" and freaked out a little for my decendts We at this almost everyday at my lab Holy shit, I could see something like that in a movie but wow. Your face when you have no face. [deleted] A girl lies to herself and to the many faced God. 
 Sexy Jesus  In death we have a name. and that name is Robert Paulson I actually found that chilling.

This is a US senator speaking to an extremely important policy issue on national security and he gets interrupted for 'news' on a non-entity like Justin Bieber. That's when you hear the people in the black suits with the sun glasses moving in the background. I thought I saw some guys with Black Suits and Sunglasses one time but I can't really recall.  Eell, one of those problems is the media, so we just might know after they fix that.  Very true. I wonder what's really going on behind the scenes though. I have a feeling that quite a few of the "family values" republicans are being muzzled right now. The shit storm is just starting... it's dumb they should just bury her and move the party forward, she's not mainstream republicans, she's crazy dumb rush limbaugh base. 

Her appeal to women isn't worth how toxicly stupid she looks. Similar story for trump, but my bet is trump is a smoke screen to get Jeb through the primaries without incident.  ehhhhh, honestly I'd expect an even 50/50 coverage split out of CNN and MSNBC

Fox news would MAYBE get 10/80 (80 being obama) 10 being talking about the aliens and how obama can't protect us from them.  And then imagine if the baby was born with a birthmark that looked like a confederate flag!  Am I he only one who wants this baby to be born black? 

Bonus points if it happens to turn out to be gay when it grows up, too.  Man you must really hate this baby! /s Lol. 

I know you are being sarcastic and all, but on a serious note, I kinda *do* wish the baby turns out black and gay. 

Here's why: When the great dark lord Cheney was forced to face the reality of a gay daughter, he did. He accepted her and was proud of her. That's like the one reasonably good thing I can say about him. My hope is that having someone in the family be born that exhibits the characteristics they have personal hate for may force them to reconsider and change their views. I'm sure it's a long shot and really, I know if the kid is born black and gay they will probably disown him/her and I wouldn't wish that on anyone. But I can hope that somehow this kid will give them some sense of compassion or a reasonable doubt about their assertion that ignorance and discrimination are best.  &gt; When the great dark lord Cheney was forced to face the reality of a gay daughter, he did. He accepted her and was proud of her

Slow your roll there, fella. Although Cheney expressed a bare minimum amount of "support" for his gay daughter he never expressed actual support for gay rights. He approached it like his daughter had a disease or an addiction. It would be the opener for every newscast until the rapture. so, forever. To be fair, Malia is a minor and the daughter of the current President.  Bristol is a huge hypocrite but how relevant is she compared to the President's daughter?  She is the daughter of a lackluster and arguably embarrasing failed vice president candidate from 7 years ago, so I agree that the current President's daughter would get way more news coverage if a story like this broke regarding her.

edit:  I was accidently viewing "ALL" instead of "FRONT PAGE" and had no idea I was posting in r/atheism.  I guess I need to prepare for a shitstorm now :C Not from me. You gave a decent perspective. You and I, we're good. If Malia was pregnant Republicans would try to impeach Obama Especially if she was an outspoken advocate for abstinence only.  Just like if Duggar was a Democrat Fox News would still be covering the molestation story today. The cult accepts hypocrites because life is a game to them. Us vs them. No matter what Which is why I say they should change their mascot from the elephant to the hippo.  They can't. Their viewers would be very hippo-critical. Why would you ever be critical of hippos?  Cause they are one and a half ton murder machines that spray poop everywhere. Even nature itself tries to kill them with arsenic.  Most dangerous animal in Africa? Lions? Nope. Crocs? Nah. 

Hippos It's easy for them, they have the pray and be gone ticket. I prayed, god is cool with it now!  I think the issue is that conservatives want to win and liberals want to be right.  To be fair conservatism is largely about hypocrisy.  They spout such high and mighty morals and none of them, not **one** practice what they preach.  The cognitive dissonance is mind boggling. Faith &gt; Loyalty &gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; Facts To be fair, Fox will shame obama for not eating the right cereal in the morning. You joke but Barack was ripped for eating his burger with dijon mustard.  Real 'Muricans use Freedom Mustard. From mustard seeds grown in Mexico, bottled in China!  Uh... Capitalism! Freedom's Mustard &gt; Freedom Mustard

French's? What? Really? It was a burger: http://www.huffingtonpost.com/2009/05/07/hannity-attacks-obama-for_n_198851.html [Mustardgate](http://www.huffingtonpost.com/2009/05/08/obama-mustard-attack-beco_n_199953.html) I'm not sure how I missed all this. Ugh. WTF does anyone care about a president's condiment preference? I THOUGHT I WAS THE ONLY ONE TO REMEMBER THIS!

For like a week Fox News made such a shit about that Barack Obama poupon'ed his dogs.

 Sounds more controversial when you hear that statement rather than reading it, to be fair. "He did *what?*" Why? Dijon mustard is best mustard Because he is black and a DEMOCRAT.

 Oh my god. This was an actual thing. Oh god, you're right.

http://www.huffingtonpost.com/2009/05/07/hannity-attacks-obama-for_n_198851.html Didn't they shame him for drinking a Sam Adams during the "beer summit"? How'd that work? Budweiser is owned by the Dutch, Miller by the English, and Coors is Canadian. Sam Adams is the largest American brewer. I think budweiser is owned by a belgian company. And I think yuengling is bigger than Sam Adams. Damn it, I did it again.

I get the Belgium -&gt; Belgian : Netherlands -&gt; Dutch thing mixed up.

I should probably remember that people from the Netherlands aren't Netherish. &gt; I should probably remember that people from the Netherlands aren't Netherish.

[](/sbmine)Well, I've never been to the Netherlands. For all I know, the inhabitants might be Zombie Pigmen, Ghasts, and Wither Skeletons. It's all good in the hood. A good portion of Belgians speak dutch Nor do they come from the Nether Regions.  &gt; come from the Nether Regions.

Actually they do. I remember the sentiment being "look at the president DRINKING!"

They were trying to insinuate that it was improper for an american president to drink, well, anything.  And that because of this Obama was improper.  or something Interestingly it got more coverage than when W Bush had some wine at a dinner in 2012, after years of claiming to be completely sober. I thought he had a Bud Light, which was honestly a good move.

Edit: Linky http://www.boston.com/news/politics/gallery/073009_beer_summit_obama?pg=3 What possible excuse did they dream up for *that* being a bad thing? They didn't. He had bud light. I think the Harvard professor had Sam Adams and I wouldn't doubt they reamed him for it for whatever reason. We are shocked and deeply troubled with Obama's breakfast aid and comfort to French Captain Horatio Magellan Crunch.
 If Bristol Palin were Obama's daughter, Barack would have some splaining to do. If Bristol Palin were Obama's daughter, she might have been raised to have a modicum of decency, dignity, and self-respect. And she would know about birth control preventing unwanted pregnancies. it cracks me up this is her 2nd surprise pregnancy, did you learn nothing from your first... really?? Yeah, she learned that she's expected to remain abstinent. *That doesn't work... obviously....* Abstinence only birth control, she honestly doesn't know any other way Yeah, but could she see Russia from her house? Perhaps not but she may be able to see why kids love Cinnamon Toast Crunch. Depends if Russia is looming or not at the time.  When they're looming, yeah you bet your ass you can see them from Alaska.  When they're _not_ looming... who knows, they're always looming.

http://imgur.com/3oHZ55O.jpg To clarify for those who don't recall, Sarah Palin never said this. It was actually Tina Fey who said this during an SNL skit where she played Palin. Pretty sure it would be Michelle who would need to splain. Why did she impregnate Sarah Palin?  ......Wait a minute, are there any whitehouse fanfics out there? Rule 34 says yes. I'm not going to hunt down links though.

I BET there's Uncle Joe fanfic. [It's this. This whole movie.](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Who's_Nailin'_Paylin%3F) Don't worry guys! I have you covered!
[21st Century US political fanfiction](http://archiveofourown.org/tags/Political%20RPF%20-%20US%2021st%20c*d*/works) &gt;Wait a minute, are there any whitehouse fanfics out there?

Shut up man.

You know there are.
 If Bristol Palin were Obama's daughter, I'm sure Bristol would have some splaining to do. SHAME. SHAME. SHAME.  http://shamenun.com/shame_sfx.mp3 If Bristol Palin were Obamas daughter, Fox News would shame her for being. I wonder how many goats she'd be offered. I bet Sarah Palin is pissed no one has offered her cattle to marry off her daughter. well duh, they can't win if they play by the rules so they try to doublestandard the shit out of everything and everyone.  Fox News buried the story in Entertainment with an [AP write up](http://www.foxnews.com/entertainment/2015/06/25/bristol-palin-says-pregnant-for-second-time/).  It's not even on page 1 of their [newsfeed](http://www.foxnews.com). I completely agree with them burying this.  Who cares?  Sure, the family lives in hypocrisy.  I don't know why we should care about a joke of a vice presidential candidate's family's personal life from 7 years ago.

Is fox burying it for political reasons? Sure.  Should the story be buried?  If it's even considered a news story worth mentioning, yes, it should be buried.  It's certainly not front page material for a national news outlet when you've got so much shit going on in this country / world. idk, in election season when we still have the same types out their promoting this crap, its still a good example for why its a bad idea. It really wouldnt matter that it was the palins.. or the obamas to be honest.. republican, dem i dont care. Not the point. She and her family promoted abstinence. She also LEAD a teen pregnancy prevention non profit.  Just like anti gay guys turning out to be gay... I'm not so sure I agree with you on the burying, as fox wouldnt bury it if it wasnt a republican. People like to read about that kind of stark hypocrisy and most of the time the media gives it to us.  I think it's more the fact that a holier-than-thou, abstinence only advocate (and a well known, well paid one at that) has done exactly what she advocates against.

Also because the abstinence only (rather than actual sexual education) program has done so much harm to young girls (look at pregnancy/std rates since this started.)  So this is a perfect example of how this program *doesn't work.* It's merely a reminder of the backwards assholes many rely on their sources of "news" from.  do you consider this 'news'?  what page *should* they put it on?  what page did al jazeera and cnn put it on?

it's not news, who fucking cares. Unfortunately it has to be news because there are people out there who still think abstinence only sex "education" is the best way to reduce unwanted pregnancies and abortions despite many studies stating the contrary. I wish we didn't need to put the spotlight on this fool but she's living proof that we need comprehensive sex education.  Okay. I've only got a little bit of time here, but I want to address this mindset you have. See, the thing is, you can't point out hypocrisy to a hypocrite because they already are mentally immune to the double standard with which they live. 

It's sort of like how you can't explain to a depressed person why they shouldn't feel sad all the time. They just *are* and you can't fix it for them by making them acknowledge it. They'll just look at you and be like, "Yeah. So?" 

You don't fix assholery by shining a spotlight on assholes. All it does is give assholes a tan. You fix the problem by showing examples of people who have either changed, or were successful. People more quickly learn from examples of success than they do of examples of failure. 

Instead of giving people who disagree with you a topic to debate you on, you overwhelm them with shining examples of people who did it right. You make them look like fools, not for defending a broken mindset, but for even *having* a mindset that is so obviously counter to what normal people already know.  When policies and laws are created due to misinformation created by the "hypocrites" in this case, this impacts *my* life and therefore my life choices. 

If my kids grow up learning abstinence sex ed in school, because that is what the policies are, then why should my life suffer just because "you can't point out hypocrisy to a hypocrite because they already are mentally immune to the double standard with which they live."? 

It's news when a nationally-known advocate for abstinence-only sex education gets pregnant, again, due to inability to abstain. 

The news is not that she's pregnant, the news is that she's lectured tens of thousands on how to avoid pregnancy and then gotten pregnant.  But that's the point, Fox News *would* care if it was Malia. They would almost certainly blast her and the Obamas all through their 24 hour news cycle. We don't find Fox News to be a legitimate news source; there is a large portion of America's population that does. Nope.....  News outlets don't exist anymore really.  They are really just well produced vlogs....

Ans it's sad that the populace eats it up like it's news.   It's not that they're wrong to bury it, it's that it's double standards for them to bury it. They bury it because it doesn't fit the bias of their propaganda. That's the issue. If this was a different politician they disagreed with, they would *make it* appear important. It's a relevant story because of the hypocrisy  &gt; don't know why we should care about a joke of a vice presidential candidate's family's personal life from 7 years ago.

Bristol Palin is not just part of 'a vice presidential candidate's family' in this context, she's the most famous and popular abstinence only advocate in America. Given that many politicians on the right are still pushing abstinence only education instead of actual sex education in public schools, a person with that title getting pregnant out of wedlock is a story (whether Fox News likes it or not).  Yep, not news worthy.

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cAvq12Sa3VE

 Let's see if Jeb Bush will stand by his convictions and [publicly shame](http://www.huffpost.com/us/entry/7542964) her on this. Your link is dead. But I'm assuming you're referring to the "single mothers should be shamed" thing... Here's what he said in his 1995 book:

*One of the reasons more young women are giving birth out of wedlock and more young men are walking away from their paternal obligations is that there is no longer a stigma attached to this behavior, no reason to feel shame. Many of these young women and young men look around and see their friends engaged in the same irresponsible conduct. Their parents and neighbors have become ineffective at attaching some sense of ridicule to this behavior. There was a time when neighbors and communities would frown on out of wedlock births and when public condemnation was enough of a stimulus for one to be careful.*

He touched on it a little, but I think there should be less shame about having out of wedlock births  - because the "damage" is already done at that point - and focus on the irresponsible behavior. If it truly is important, safe sex education should be at the forefront of his platform. And not just education for girls, who bear the brunt of the shame, but for boys as well. 

In 1993, then United States Surgeon General Joycelyn Elders promoted the distribution of contraceptives in school and because of the backlash, and other reasons (advocating drug legalization) ended up getting fired by President Clinton because of the controversy it caused.


[She was asked whether it would be appropriate to promote masturbation as a means of preventing young people from engaging in riskier forms of sexual activity, and she replied, "I think that it is part of human sexuality, and perhaps it should be taught."](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Joycelyn_Elders) Shame is backwards idiocy on par with punishment techniques that wouldn't work on a fucking dog. If a person is too stupid and harmful to realize the flaw in treating humans like idiots, they deserve twice the mockery and shame for their approach. Ironically, shaming the shamer is the best way to stop shame considering shame is based on tribalism and the demonizing of certain ideas. When you demonize the demonizer you invalidate their effort simply by force. Makes it obvious there's no content to their message. Hell, Sarah Palin would be leading the pitchfork brigade.  &gt; Hee Haw gang

I'm totally using this from now on when I refer to faux snooze. It's actually an insult to the real Hee Haw folks. [Where Oh Where Are You Tonight?](https://youtu.be/WJZY__j0Tyk) r/nostalgia is thataway -&gt; Reading Bristol's idiotic blatherings has made me realize that she does  the whole 'I am such a victim!' bullshit her mom does. So whiny. Bristol Palin: continuously proving the point that abstinence-only education doesn't even work on it's teachers since 2005. Birth control really isn't difficult.  Except for some I suppose. If Bristol were Obama's daughter, she wouldn't be pregnant because 1) she would be smarter and 2) she would know how birth control works.
 If Bristol Palin were Obama's daughter...well...she wouldn't get pregnant because her parents aren't conservative nut jobs.  If Bristol Palin was the president daughter a lot more people would give a shit.  Shaming is too mild a word for what they would do in this instance.  if only we could convert hypocrisy into energy or into food. Hannah Montana - still not pregnant. [deleted] I'm going to look into this more tomorrow. Their defense seemed weak (she couldn't have gotten pregnant immediately after etc.). I'm at least half-way convinced he's Bristol's and less-so convinced that he's Sarah's. The down-syndrome/age correlation helps their case, but everything else seems to stink there.  Todd is probably still the father though. (cringe) Look he's right, and people are always complaining about double standards and hypocrisy on Fox and among the religious right, and they're very often right. But I am so sick of discussion points based on hypothetical reactions to imagined scenarios -"if this happened you would have done this"-because they are 100% unproductive. I say 100% advisedly. There is no benefit _at all_ to making this kind of argument, because you are arguing a hypothetical line that will only make sense to people who already agree with you. There is no one standing on the other side of the aisle who will hear this argument and say, "you're right. I renounce Fox News". You don't get to say what people would or wouldn't do, and then use that as an argument against them. You can have an opinion of them, by all means. And you can criticise their actions. But you can't use things that you think they would do in an imagined scenario as an argument against them.

This type of reasoning isn't based on legitimate observation, since you are proposing a hypothetical, and making up data to fit your point of view. It is a mere restatement of your position about the hypocrisy of Fox. Now you might be right in your opinion. I happen to agree with their hypocrisy, but this argument style is completely unproductive, and I don't think it constitutes fair play. What is the end game for this type of argument? Who are they trying to convince? What are they trying to do? It seems the only effect it has is getting people riled up. People who like Fox News get angry, and people who hate Fox News get self-righteous. Isn't it an application of their meme in another context to aid in altering perspective? By taking it out of the original context, framed and groomed, it allows critique and hopefully insight. Yeah, I totally agree with you, I think.  I once used that application to help someone understand why staying with her abusive controlling boyfriend was a bad idea. All I am criticising is the argument that uses a premise "if this happened you would have done this", because this type of argument is making up data to fit your point of view. If it is true that Fox News is full of hypocrisy -which I believe it is, by the way- then all you need to do is bring up an instance of _actual_ hypocrisy. Quote something they _actually_ said. I'm not opposed to pointing out hypocrisy; I'm opposed to arguments that rely on inventing imagined scenarios to support your point of view. Just use real quotes, headlines, or articles to support your position, not imagined ones. Actually remember when Fox News criticized the "trashy" appearance of Obamas daughters on Turkey pardoning day? (They looked fine)  Yeah, but were they pregnant? There's no way to extrapolate how they would have portrayed a pregnancy out of wedlock based on how they portrayed the wearing wholly inoffensive clothing. /s The /s is not necessary haha If there's one thing I've learned on reddit, the /s is always necessary. /s? &gt; This type of reasoning isn't based on legitimate observation

Don't agree with this point; there are a million examples of Fox News moralizing like crazy when some democrat scandal pops up and then going deafeningly silent when it's one of their tribe. it sounds like you agree with the point but did not read it.   &gt;  there are a million examples of Fox News moralizing like crazy when some democrat scandal pops up and then going deafeningly silent when it's one of their tribe.

I agree, and he should cite one of those _real_ examples, not make one up. Then cite those sources rather than a fabricated one. &gt; because they are 100% unproductive.

Welcome to Reddit? Yes. Thank you. This is so right. Plus one is the president and the other is completely irrelevant.  No by logical rational people she would and should be treated like a hypocrite. I honestly don't really care what people do with their lives as long as they aren't hurting others. However, she did hurt other teens and children by preaching and making promises and lying to impressionable youth all the while repeating her past mistakes. If you're going to lie to people at least learn how to use birth control or just be honest and live your life. Happily we don't live our lives according to the moral standards of Fox News. Let's remember a few of [her words](http://abcnews.go.com/video/playerIndex?id=7515119) on the topic of abstinence.

* "this is the choice that's going to prevent teen pregnancy and prevent a lot of heartache" 
* "I would have waited to have sex, obviously"
 What's odd, is that they don't just shame Malia Obama for being pregnant anyway.
Fox never let facts get in the way of their lies, before. 
 They sorta  tried that. They referred to Michelle Obama as Barack's "[Baby Mama](http://www.huffingtonpost.com/2008/06/11/fox-news-calls-michelle-o_n_106655.html)" even though she and Barack were married at the time of both their childrens' births.  What the fuck does this subreddit have to do with atheism again? From the FAQ:

&gt; "Atheism" is nothing more and nothing less than a lack of belief in any god or gods. If discussion between the million or so redditors subscribed to this forum were limited to "I don't believe in gods." "Neither do I.", it would get very boring, very quickly. For this reason, there is significant discussion about skepticism, secularism, humanism, empiricism, and other topics related to, but not synonymous with, atheism. There is also discussion about how various religions, or the concept of religion in general, are harmful, silly, abusive, or absurd. This is all fine, because it gives us something to talk about.

Palin's abstinence rhetoric is clearly religiously-motivated, and as such is clearly within the sub's guidelines. The abstinence thing is a religiously motivated issue, this is for non-religious people (i.e. what atheist effectively means) to discuss things related to that. If the article was about abstinence I could see it, but its about biased political treatment. This doesnt belong. The bitch preaches abstinence while fucking without condoms. 

She deserves to be shamed.   naw this is /r/politics, you must have taken a wrong turn somewhere. Most likely at albuquerque... The ABQ! Maybe Michelle should be less concerned with what your kids are eating and more concerned with what her kids are "eating"!

Was I the only one thinking this would be a way better quote? And for being black. "What's the matter with the black family"? We report you decide. Does she also gain his ethnicity, doubling the hate?  "I know this has been, and will be, a huge disappointment to my family, to my close friends, and to many of you."

Always the best for a child to bring them into being in such a positive light. I suggest the name "Phall". 
 &gt; Obama was for marriage equality all along

That's really not how I remember it.  When was she preggers?  At 17?  I bet neither Malia or Natasha are going to have that problem any time soon. If Sarah Palin were also President this comparison would hold a lot more weight. How Dan Savage didn't get controversy for "All republicans should just fucking die" baffles me.  Because Dan isn't in a position where he has to pander to those with opposing viewpoints. He certainly did take shit for it from some conservatives, but it didn't extend past forum comments/emails.  Dan Savage is a douche, but he's not wrong. [deleted] Thank you for your comment. Unfortunately, your comment has been removed for the following reason:

* Using stereotypical reddit troll lingo or outright trolling or shitposting, activities which are against the [rules](https://www.reddit.com/r/atheism/wiki/guidelines). Breaking this rule may result in immediate banning (temporary or permanently). 

If you have any questions, [please feel free to message the mods](http://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=/r/atheism). Thank you. The first time. It's pretty common knowledge what Fox New's agenda and tactics are.  To those who don't watch it sure.

To those of us who don't live in america it's more like an entertaining game of lets see what the crazies say next. Even in America we play that game.  no one expects White Trash to be anything other than White Trash Well faux news never had a sense of shame SHAME TIL that Bristol Palin isn't the UK's town of Bristols' version of Sarah Palin... https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7Ioa1homaDQ Palin the Lesser's blog post reads like she's describing the inception of her new bundle of joy :

"Honestly, Ive been trying my hardest to keep my chin up on this one. At the end of the day theres nothing I cant do with God by my side, and I know I am fully capable of handling anything that is put in front of me with dignity and grace. Life moves on no matter what. So no matter how you feel, you get up, get dressed, show up, and never give up. When life gets tough, there is no other option but to get tougher."

Genuine Palin straight talk about taking it hard, but perhaps if her chin hadn't been kept so far up she wouldn't be pregnant. &gt;"Fox news doesn't have a reaction to anyone's pregnancy"

That is a bold statement Cotton, lets see if it pays off. &gt;If Bristol Palins last name was Obama, the whole Hee Haw gang at Fox News would spend half of every day for the next nine months telling us that Bristol Obama has terrible parents 

Hee Haw Gang.  Best description of Fox News I've ever heard. I think the role for captain obvious has too many people auditioning. If Joan of Arc were Obama's daughter Fox News would shame her for being burned at the stake. Nothing makes a republican hot under the collar than pregnancy out of wedlock.

They say they look down on it, but really it's their fetish. [deleted] Religious conservatives' insistence on abstinence-only education and their obvious double standards when it comes to the results. To be fair, an ex-presidential candidate's daughter being pregnant is barely news. No matter how hypocritical it makes her. The president's daughter getting pregnant is a pretty big deal whether it's in wedlock or not.  It's news when she's an utter hypocrite profiting off it. If one of Obama's daughters got pregnant Obama would probably face impeachment hearings.... What does this have to do with atheism? Religious hypocrisy, you dolt. When she opened her legs she was thinking about $ Also, the for the Duggars incest and sexual molestation is pretty normal for inward looking Christian cults and dont really see what all the fuss is about. http://shamenun.com If Obama's daughter were caught jaywalking it would be news cuz she's the president's daughter. And the republican party would use it to shame the democratic president regardless of his skin color, cuz its red vs blue.  Red vs blue... Can we strand them in a valley while the rest of us move on? God loves you and so do I How long until they try to discredit him by showing off his leather party pictures you think? Yes... And that would be wrong. What do Jerry Springer and Maury Povich have to say about this. Thats what really matters. [Shame](http://shamenun.com/) No shit. "political" news channels. Im glad we got normal news here Obama's daughters are also considerably younger than Bristol Palin, although the comparison still has some validity. Not sure if his hypothetical is true, but we do know that if Bristol Palin were pregnant, Dan Savage as well as other liberals would be shaming her. Not so much shaming her as a person, but shaming hypocrites who teach abstinence only programs. These programs have been proven to not work, and damage lives in the process.  I doubt anyone actually cares about her as a person. Nobody is shaming her for using her vagina often, they're shaming her hypocrisy and ignorance. Only republicans would shame someone for using their genitalia.  Her public beliefs and constant talk about sex control to others, shames her far above our power to influence it. She is another religious clown saying what you should do, while doing the opposite herself. She is a hypocritical bitch. I don't care what side of the aisle you're on, I'm sick of these arguments strictly on conjecture.  FOX news shamed Obama for playing golf on Sunday when he should have been in church. Or their complaining he went on vacation to Hawaii instead of somewhere "American, like Texas". That... what? That makes no sense on multiple levels.

Since when was it a rule that national leaders had to take their vacations within their own countries?

And Hawaii is still technically a US state right?
I'm an Australian, and even I'm aware of that much.  Wait so abstinence only people are getting laid more than I am. What a shame Haha awwww Maybe I should tell the bank to abstain from donating huge amounts of cash to me. Only works if you're a church that's not for profit.  Catholic schoolgirls are the ones to watch. Nah, man, they start much too late. I went to a Catholic girls school and there were loads of girls who would be giving blow jobs *in the school car park* to their 18 year old boyfriends in year 9 (age 14-15?) When I was in high school the religous girls were ALWAYS the freakiest. 

Mainly because they couldn't have vaginal intercourse so there were down to do ANYTHING else. 

Such a weird thing looking back. Catholic schoolgirl here. Can confirm.  Catholic priest here. Can confirm. I'm already confirmed. Then you're already too old for the priest. rip inbox Sooner or later it comes down to fate. You might as well be the one. Only the good die young! That's what I said! Something about being told not to something makes us want to do them more. Ok lady, you're not allowed to have sex with me anymore. SHAME I'm late 20s, in a relationship of three years, we've developed a "we aren't actively trying but a baby wouldnt be unwelcome" approach to our reproductive health, and we STILL cant pop out a kid but this heiffer gets two accident babies. Fml.  Well if there's truth in the rumours this'll be her third ... Trig is thought to be hers given her mum's flight back at that time etc Maybe she should just quit preaching "abstinence" and finally admit she likes getting fucked.

There's nothing wrong with what she's doing; she should just quit being a hypocrite about it. Exactly. There is nothing wrong with liking sex, but it's wrong to follow the "do as I say, not as I do" principle. I'd actually have a little more respect for her if she would say that abstinence only education is clearly a failure in her case and apologize that she made so much money off of preaching it. Hypocrisy is how many of these people, figure heads make money. Certainly both people on the left and on the right are doing it, but the amount of it on the right is just mind boggling. When liberal is caught lying it's often quickly acknowledged but for the right it's become a standard MO. Preachers, politicians, talking heads are pushing agenda which is simply not true to their actual lifestyle. Like Donald Trump criticizing goods made in China, yet all of his wares are made in China. Or preachers caught being gay or molesting kids, politicians cheating on their wives and electorate, it's just epidemic of lies. Then again, some are better than others at doing it. Some can lie and get away with it even after being caught. It's just abstinence and raw-dogging are too difficult to balance, maybe she needs to start with a small lie and then take baby steps. Lol  Sounds like she already did that;

Palin first became the subject of media attention when her pregnancy was announced during her mother's unsuccessful run for Vice President.[10] In February 2009, she told Fox News that abstinence is "not realistic at all," but that she would like it to become more accepted among people her age.[13]

copied from her wiki But then, AFTER that, she went and made this video that basically says only rich powerful people should be having pre-marital sex, not the common folk:

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YpHlztPeHf8
 Ugh.. how fucking pretentious.. definitely a trait passed down from her mother. Holy fuck!

"Do as I say not as I do" detected BEEP BEEP BEEP!

What an assy way to explain that it's okay for *her* to have a kid but not for you,poor bastard... She's welcome to come out, apologise, and admit she was wrong about abstinence-only, whenever she's ready.  I think she's happy milking morons for publicity and easy money. But milking morons is probably how she got into this whole situation in the first place... If she only milked him, she wouldn't be in this *sticky* mess, now would she? Math checks out. Looks like she didn't buy the cow, but instead got the milk for free. I just wait for her public speech, if the riots / protests don't include "cum on feel the noise" ill be sad Well, she definitely has been "rockin' her boy". `[X]` Rekt

`[  ]` Not rekt  unicode    
 not unicode  redundant check box  I have no idea what I'm doing.  *twitches* red rocket


red rocket That is honestly the only ting I give her credit for.  There is one born every minute.   The fact that she is a flaming hypocrite does not stop her legions of supporters from throwing their money at her.  The joke is on them.   Well, them and the rest of a country that has to deal with the very real socioeconomic repercussions of perpetuating ignorant points-of-view...haha those suckers Haha joke's still on them, I don't live in the same country Literally. [She was paid $262,000](http://thinkprogress.org/politics/2011/04/05/156116/bristol-palin-profiteer-teen-pregnancy/) as a spokesperson for a pro-abstinence non-profit. What the fuck, that's a doctors salary... To have an unmarried woman with a kid talk about abstinence. She's better off making the entire apology about God. People will forget she's a hypocrite and a piece of trash.  god works in mysterious ways, which is good because her twat doesn't She could always claim it was divine insemination though. It's happened before, supposedly.  Hah! Like anyone would belive that...right? ........rrriiiiiiigggghhhhtttt? Oh fuck they DO believe it! Hopefully it's after the sex tape comes out. Don't joke. I will rent that shit. Yes, but her family will lose their Fox News base... Lol, as long as she makes good with God (or at least loudly proclaims she has), Fox News viewers will let it go. No because this is all apart of God's plan duh.  Hasn't she already? 

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bristol_Palin

&gt; In a July 2011 interview with Drew Pinsky, Palin said she doesnt want to "be named as an abstinence preacher .... Im not out there saying dont have sex. I hate that kind of stuff. Birth control needs to be used effectively each and every single time if youre gonna be having sex. ... Im not advocating [abstinence] for everyone else."

&gt; In February 2009, she told Fox News that abstinence is "not realistic at all," but that she would like it to become more accepted among people her age.[13]

I mean she already admits that it's not a viable option. Am I missing something here? yes, the fact that she is paid $260k a year by a bullshit foundation to promote abstinence.
 I dont know the specifics so bear with me im just going off your statement but promoting abstinence isnt the same as abstinence only  "See this is EXACTLY why we need to be preaching abstinence-only" she wasnt wrong.. you people dont get it.

When conservatives fail and become pregnant it is called being human.. and has nothing to do with the abstinence.

when liberals do, its due to their crappy ideology that encourages teens to get pregnant as soon and as often as possible with as many species as possible.

(and yeah this is about religion, but its the right winger version that tries to force the ideas on others, where the left winger version might believe that it is wrong but believe in leading by example over leading by legislation)

**edit:** and to forgive the right a little in this concept, people in general tend to do this-- just this current subject is more conservative.But we tend to judge ourselves by our intentions,while we judge others by their actions. When i cut you off, its an accident, i was a little off today.. sorry. When you cut me off its cause your a fucking idiot who doesnt know how to fucking drive and prolly got his dl in a box of cracker jacks anyways.(eh atheism isnt the politics of left versus right and wanted to pull back a little)
 Of course she was wrong.  Abstinence doesn't work because people tend to want to have sex.  Giving teenagers the education so that they understand their bodies and have the tools to make more informed decisions doesn't mean we encourage them to have sex.  We just know the science, and plenty of them will have sex regardless of what we tell them to do so we may as well give them the tools to minimize the risk of pregnancy and STIs.

There are also reasons for women to take hormonal birth control aside from not getting pregnant by the way.  It can help regulate and lower heavy menstrual flow and cramping that might otherwise leave a woman out of commission for a few days every month.  Plus even if it doesn't drastically help, you can still use it to have only four periods a year.  You could go even less but it's typically recommended to have a period every so often just to see if there are any health issues. Poster above you was being completely sardonic, BTW.  Can someone just send a crate of fucking condoms to this idiot? We don't need more Palins. Where do I donate? Wish this was the top comment. yeah, she totally banged some other dude and got pregnant and that's why the wedding was canceled. I'd bet on it for sure Or the poor schmuck realized who his in-laws would be.  You mean rich, powerful media stars? Some people don't care about politics, or agree with the Palins.  "stars" "powerful" "magma" *smegma *santorum "media" Obvious. There's so many more dignified ways this could have turned out for the same people in a similar situation: 

* Don't media whore
* Don't tell other people what to do
* Be yourself
* Be open to personal change 
* Don't have false sacraments (engagements, marriage)
* Take it in the butt


 The pill also would have been a good choice.  With the classic religious argument being, "if we didn't have God's laws, then we would become degenerate." Meaning: the only reason I don't do depraved fucked up things on a daily basis is because of the threat of hell fire, why is anyone surprised that when one of them slips up, or "falls from grace" it's in a predictable fashion. They almost succumb to what they're championing against. It wouldn't surprise me if she hadn't been covered/packed with more nut butter than what's in your average Skippy factory.  We have a winner You need to make that in to a men's warehouse meme. http://imgur.com/JWXGTHR Jon Benjamin in 20 years. Eerie. too much hair. Or he came to his senses and realized the Palin family just wanted to have a Medal of Honor recipient in their midst just so they could use him as a political prop.  I've met and worked with Dakota on several occasions and he's about the nicest, funniest, goofiest guy you can imagine. He's also every bit the *"aw shucks"* country boy you'd think. He's undoubtedly a war hero, but it pains me to see him paraded around Fox News like his opinion on anything fucking matters. 

Saving a shitload of Marines in a firefight is one thing; being knowledgeable about politics and economics and foreign policy is another. Dude needs to stick to what he knows. 

Good on him for taking Fox News's cash and banging a member of their royal family, though. Then lets hope he dodged a second bullet and Bristol's kid isn't his, I'd hate to see a guy whose done so much for his country be used as a cat's paw by the Palin family.  Of course she did.


[She a 'ho.](https://pbs.twimg.com/profile_images/1525417112/image.jpg) Fosho "Riley, I keep telling you: all women are not 'ho's.    

...We're talking 20, 25 percent tops." https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kQqUC43Bkz0 &gt;I know this has been, and will be, a huge disappointment to my family, to my close friends, and to many of you.

It's incredibly sad that she's been raised to have such a low opinion of herself and her actions. If she's really that concerned, why not just stop fucking? Look, you're horny, we get it- so are most people, no need to be ashamed. Or keep fucking, but use birth control.  Like those of us who have common sense do. You just want a piece of that hot Alaskan ass. Based on your username, you're probably her type! Guilty as charged.  I wonder if she wants a third baby. I'd do it, leave for a pack of cigs, and never come back. Better yet, learn to use a condom? I know she didn't learn how in school or at home, but there's this Internet thing that has a couple useful how-to's on the subject of sex. She's living true to the statistics that abstinence only educated people don't use protection when they inevitably fuck. It's sad that bringing a life into the world will be seen as a disappointment by those around her. Must be a sad life. Thanks for being the only sensible statement in what is a fairly easy, fish in the barrel type situation. 

It's not her fault she's conflicted, it's not really her fault she's living the way most 20 somethings do. Hell, she is also living in a completely altered world where because of the grace of her mothers ambition, she became a role model to some despite accomplishing nothing. 

No, the fault lay with the awful teaching of abstinence only education, the roots of it, and the continued insistence of its function. 

Maybe this will be the shift that makes her an advocate for the other way. 

If not, there's always the old joke: what do you get when you teach your kids abstinence only sex ed? 

Answer: grandchildren! 
 FTA:

&gt;  I do not want any lectures and I do not want any sympathy

ridicule it is then! &gt; I do not want any lectures....

No, that's _your_ job. I didn't know you were allowed to do that. From now on, I too want no criticism for the stupid things I do! Damn, at 24 she already has smug "I'm more Christian than you" face down pat. 

(And the hypocrisy?  She's got that locked down as well) &gt; I do not want any lectures

Well, join the fucking club.  Isn't that exactly what she does? Get paid to give lectures about this? Abstinence works so long as you dont FUCK To be fair, she *wasn't* fucking during 99% of any given day. 

I wonder what went wrong. Let her guard down for one instant and blinked.  

Boom!  Pregnant.  Because...  That's how it happens.   She watched Jurassic Park and saw the scene where Goldblum is lying on the floor with his shirt open. I will not link to it because the sight has been known to induce pregnancy in women. Shit I went and looked.  Now -I'M- pregnant.  How the hell do I explain this to the wife?  
 &gt; To be fair, she wasn't fucking during 99% of any given day.

How do you know that? Based on your assertation she has a dick in her 14 minutes and 24 seconds of any given day. Or maybe 14 different dicks for a minute each (probably not all at the same time, although it would explain why she only lasts a minute). Wow. She's calling a pregnancy " disappointment" and "painful time" instead of celebrating it. 

How fucked up are these people? 

How fucked up will the kid be when one day he reads what his mother had to say about his conception?  &gt;"I do not want any lectures and I do not want any sympathy"

Well I know what to say the next time she tries to lecture someone about abstinence.

No-one wants to give you lectures **or** sympathy you self-absorbed bint. You're just a walking example of the stupidity of your "Abstinence Only" doctrine and we just want everybody to realise that. Look!  It's a bird!

It's a PLANE!

No, it's Bristol Palin's last shred of credibility! When did she ever have any? Her mum was Governor for ten-fifths of a term and helped secure a sound loss for the Reps in 2008, I don't think she ever had any.  Wouldn't ten fifths be 2 terms?  10/5=2? Two terms would be four times as many as she actually did. oh god!  a high school word problem has appeared!  Someone kill it! If a high school word problem appears and nobody is around to answer it, who is going to repeat senior year? I thought that was a reference to the amount of alcohol she lasted through...  10/5 what... To be fair, it could be an immaculate conception.  Nope:

&gt;Immaculate Conception
noun
noun: Immaculate Conception

    the doctrine that God preserved the Virgin Mary from the taint of original sin from the moment she was conceived; it was defined as a dogma of the Roman Catholic Church in 1854.
        the feast commemorating the Immaculate Conception on December 8.


The Immaculate Conception is the belief the Mary was born without original sin NOT that she never had sex. 

Somehow - I don't think Bristol falls into that category.  &gt; from the taint of original sin

Apparently I'm still 12 years old, because I laughed like an idiot at that part.  Will be funny if the baby is distinctly Middle Eastern Looking.  There is NO doubt they would try explaining it that way. This would imply they would first accept the idea of [Jesus looking as anything other than the previous life](https://blancaita.files.wordpress.com/2011/10/merciful-jesus.jpg) of the [Eurovision winner of last year.](http://acn.com.ve/wp-content/uploads/2015/03/acn-CONCHITA-WURST-portada.jpg) Twist:  Josh Duggar is the father She's about 20 years older than what he goes for. Zing. nope. hope it is a black dude. can you imagine the drama then? Shame. Shame.  [Shame. Shame. Shame.](http://shamenun.com) No shame in getting pregnant, but yes shame for being a goddam hypocrite. ding SHAME. Abstinence sex ed should be banned nation wide. It's been proven to not only NOT work, but actually make it worst. I see no reason to let these fantasy book obsessed monkeys teach it to children. It would be nice if the line "Respect my privacy, I do not want any lectures" actually worked when dealing with religious people. Can Dick Cheney not loan that family a shotgun for a wedding? How fucked up is that: "I'm pregnant. This is a terrible time for our family."

LOL and fuck you. Hard not to snicker. Here let me make it harder: 

|At the end of the day there's nothing I can't do with God by my side

...except refrain from having unprotected sex outside of wedlock???? God never talked about condoms or birth control in the Bible ergo it doesn't exist and are just tools of Satan to reduce the number of Gods flock something something right with jebus.  something something you can't judge me. Abstinence:  It's what to teach your kids when you only want 2 or 3 early grandchildren. [just a reminder folks: Kids need a mom and a dad!](http://gawker.com/5909309/single-mother-bristol-palin-tells-obama-same-sex-marriage-is-wrong-because-kids-need-a-mom-and-dad) Guys! I think I have a revolutionary idea that will prevent unintended pregnancies! Wait for it...instead of preaching abstinence, why don't we preach contraceptives? It's so crazy, it may just work!  Contraceptives are da debil!

The idea, I think, is that if contraceptives are evil, you shouldnt have sex before marriage but everyone sins, and the little parasite is part of "gods plan" otherwise they wouldnt have gotten pregnant. You know, because it isnt biology, its god...or something. Hypocrite and stupid, too. Get pregnant by accident once? It's a mistake. Twice? You're a fucking idiot.  "stop making stupid people famous" applies here. "I do not want any sympathy."  
You're safe on that one. "Do as I say, not as I do", Religion. Irrational behavior is an emergent property of irrational systems. Christianity is not a rationally consistent set of standards. As a result, anyone who attempts to follow those standards will not behave in rationally consistent ways. It's no surprise that we see people who's words and actions do not make any sense. "I don't want any lectures." Well, that's ironic.  She probably thought she can pray her way out of pregnancy. Pray harder, not smarter. Plan P? I've heard of it but it's about as effective as homeopathic remedies. Not true. The placebo effect is well documented. Homeopathic remedies have that going for them, which is nice. But it's not taking the homeopathic remedies that does the work, it's the mind telling the body to heal that does the work. but its okay, her imaginary friend forgives her for being a massive hypocritical bitch. 

shouldn't we all do the same?  &gt; "My little family always has, and always will come first," she added. "Tripp, this new baby, and I will all be fine, because God is merciful." 


Bwahaha      "Honestly, I've been trying my hardest to keep my chin up on this one,"  -Bristol 

How about keeping your legs closed too. -the planet Well abstinence isn't for the rich. The problem with the so-called "moral majority" people is they have two sets of rules. That which they live by, and that which they expect you and yours to live by. If they had to live by the rules the common folk had to, I bet a lot of them would be Democrats, or at least Libertarians. The saddest thing is that one day that kid will read the statement she posted and discover how entirely and utterly unwanted they were. She doesnt want any lectures.... but it is ok for her to charge people money for her to lecture them? "I don't want any lectures"

Maybe stop lecturing the rest of us you mouth breather. plllllLLLLLEEEEEEAAAAAASE come out black "I don't want any lectures"

Little fucking bitch is all willing to make money off of lecturing people about this but God forbid anyone lecture her on her delusional hypocrisy. I actually feel kinda bad for her. You shouldn't be made to feel ashamed for having sex outside of wedlock, or for choosing to carry a pregnancy as an unwed mother. This seems to be why she's ashamed, and that's horribly unfair.  It is sad that she was raised that way and might raise her kids the same way. But I felt less sorry for her when I saw that she made more than $250,000 last year preaching what she doesn't practice.  She should feel bad about being a hypocrite and perpetuating abstinence-only education. She should not have to feel guilt for her sexual choices or motherhood choices, and that guilt is unfortunately a very real side effect of virginity culture.  No, when you are engaged, you should not be screwing other people.  That shows that you can't be trusted. Save your sympathy for teenagers that got knocked up because they were confused by their hormones, lack sex ed, access to contraceptives, critical thinking and good guidance from mature adults, then got kicked out, disowned and shamed by their own backward, punitive community of hypocrites and end up on the streets and can't get an abortion because of increasingly restrictive laws and requirements. 

She peddled fire and brimstones and sell her integrity for money, while advocating for destructive public policies that put vulnerable teenagers in danger and into poverty and social ostracism. She deserved no sympathy, she should be publicly harangued, shamed and condemned for her hypocrisy. Her and that whole piece of shit family have done more harm to public life than most of us can even dream of. In that way, she is a victim of her fundamentalist upbringing.  She isn't naturally upset and embarrassed about having a child; she was trained to be that way from childhood.

She could be saying "Oh good, I love kids!  I'm glad to be having a second one and I'm financially stable enough where it isn't an issue."  But instead, she's saying "Well this sucks, sorry everyone.   I guess I'll have to keep my chin up." Maybe she should have kept her panties up instead?  Well, she could always go for three kids by three different fathers or, as it's known in rural Alaska, the Tri-fuckta. Yeah nobody should feel ashamed for being pregnant, even if they believe in abstinence. The shitstorm she is facing is more because of her frequent campaigning for abstinence-only sex education, despite being a now two-time living example of exactly why it doesn't work. The fact that abstinence-only sex education tends to shame women who are in her exact situation is only icing on the cake. You should be ashamed for it when you make a career out of demonizing it for others.

Spend your pity on someone who desrves it. You're absolutely right, but the trap she's fallen into is affiliating herself with her Mother's belief system, and that of her Mother's party. The Republicans stand on what they think is a strong pillar of family morals; no illegal activities, abstinence from sex until marriage, no abortions, no alcohol, no homo. Now, it's ok to have those beliefs, but where they CONTINUALLY fuck it up is by making sure everyone hears about it. "Muh God and muh country and the gays and muh marriage." This makes it so that WHEN they fuck up, because humans fuck up because they're flawed, they look like grade A jackasses. 

My point is, if Sarah Palin didn't hoist her onto a very public platform to use as a prop for her political career, people wouldn't be judging her as harshly. Sarah Palin collapsed under the weight of her own hubris and she dragged her kid down with her before she was even old enough to vote.  Agreed, horrible that scenario was created by her parents for criminalizing premarital sex.  What a family of hypocrites - like mother, like daughter. Pull out game weak AF... &gt;*"Honestly, I've been trying my hardest to keep my chin up on this one."*

I have no quarrel with her being pregnant, but her preaching, moralizing and pushing her opinions and values down the throats of others both directly as well as through lobbying and politicizing has been extreme. Hypocrite is too small of a word to use here. 

If she genuinely felt this way then *"honestly"*, she should have tried harder to keep her legs closed.  That's funny... she said she didn't want any lectures...  but did she ask any other people if they wanted lectures?  &gt;I do not want any lectures

Well, gee, maybe now you know how all those teenage girls you preached at about abstinence felt. I hope she gives the little spawn up for adoption and two gay guys adopt it and decorate its room with rainbows and bookshelves full of liberal bedtime stories. Hey Internet, can I ask a favor? Please don't let up on Bristol and use this as a platform to skew this particular hypocritical group of shits.  would be super funny if they called off the wedding because she cheated on her fiance, and this pregnancy is the result. &gt;TFW you're a hypocrite  Your hypocritical and shitty life brings me much pleasure.  Tbh.  A gift to /r/atheism.

We're allowed a sardonic smirk. Just one though. My Momma always said white trash is as white trash does...Shudder to think this family was almost in the White House... And her Mom just got fired from Fox News.

http://www.dailykos.com/story/2015/06/24/1396211/-Free-Ranger-Grifter-Sarah-Palin-Fired-From-Fox-News-Again If the spokesman for abstinence-only education can't make that plan work right, why would you even expect it to work on teenagers...? typical right-wing hypocrisy
 &gt;I don't want any lectures

What, like the ones you got paid hundreds of thousands of dollars to give to other girls about abstinence?  

&gt;http://www.usmagazine.com/celebrity-news/news/bristol-palin-earns-262000-as-abstinence-ambassador-201154

disgusting hypocrites.  The fact anybody would PAY the loser kid of a loser failed politician from a loser family to lecture them on how they should lead their life is funny, but at the same time sad knowing she made more money than most people despite having no real skills or ability or even practicing what she preaches.  How lost do you have to be to go listen to a palin kid lecture you on values? Unfortunately for her it would probably be just as much of a scandal if she were to abort it to keep it quiet.. 

It must be awfully hard having such a tall moral high horse that when you fall off it, it destroys you. This makes me rather sad actually.
Like she is a young person who likes fucking (pretty rare I know), yet she has most likely been thrown into this bullshit by her batshit folks at an early age and now has to carry all their guilt, shame and pressure her whole life or at least until she bails. 

What I don't get is why she didn't just fuck with some form of protection? Does she honestly not know how it works or the risks of what happens if you don't use it? She has one kid already so she must have some idea. Why not just keep being the poster child or what ever and just use contraception on the side? There are ways around this!  Please stop linking to the white trash fools in this highly dysfunctional family. &gt; I do not want any lectures...

No, that's your job. "I don't want any lectures." 

Oh, but you can hand them out whenever you want right?  I hate this dumb bitch.   Not that it's anyone's business but....Hilarious. Sarah Palin is going to be a granny again :-). I am so happy for her! We need a fundraiser to buy a dump truck full of condoms and have them driven to Wasilla, Alaska. Quick before the roads snow over and (most importantly) more Palin's reproduce.  If she didn't want any lectures, then why the fuck did she blog about it? This screams of attention seeker. She's just like her mother. &gt; I know this has been, and will be, a huge disappointment to my family, to my close friends, and to many of you

The normal resoponse to this would be to get better friends. "Shame Shame Shame Shame Ding a-Ring"
"Shame Shame Shame Shame Ding a-Ring"
"Shame Shame Shame Shame Ding a-Ring"
"Shame Shame Shame Shame Ding a-Ring"
"Shame Shame Shame Shame Ding a-Ring"
"Shame Shame Shame Shame Ding a-Ring" "I do not want any lectures" - I wish she'd take that advice as a self righteous religious delusional that lectures the morally bankrupt atheists and anti-theists. She should keep repeating it in front of a mirror and add ..."from someone who can't even practice what they preach." According to the bible, as I understand it, sex out of wedlock is as sinful as gay sex. So I guess it's hell for her and her bastard children. If only she was a hypocrite about abortion too none of us would know about her first hypocrisy. Of course. I think I vomited a lil reading that... Here's an idea:

Let's stop paying attention to these morons that spout idiocy/hypocrisy. 
Let them fall into oblivion.
Let the people that follow them learn the hard way while the rest of us stay educated and segregated.

Just a thought... That's for other people, like teenagers, not for adults who have a lot more control over their actions and emotions. Not her. Nope. Must... Hop... On ... That.... D.... Kidsdonthavesexbeforemarriagebye.  I love that her engagement to some guy ended a month ago, and all of a sudden she's pregnant.  I think I know why the engagement imploded. As Maury would say: "You are **NOT** the father!". Wait a second. Do people really get offended if those propogating beliefs don't abide by them?

... no wonder everyone is mad at each other Off topic, but she totally looks like a girl who puts out on the first date. Look at them DSLs. Doesn't that book they are so fond of call for a some type of harsh punishment like being stoned to death? Government should not be in the business of determining what are and what are not valid religions.   Therefore churches should only get exemptions for the actual charity work they do.  Not for missionary work to spread the gospel, or for the preachers house, but for actually feeding and housing the poor and other such good works.  And only if they do not require someone to attend services or otherwise participate in the religion itself.  

It is not an interference with religion to tax them like any other business.  It would be if they were taxed differently than any other business.  If they do enough good works their tax rate will be extremely low anyway.

Also, the same goes for other charities.  Don't spend enough on actual work then you pay taxes on more.   &gt; Government should not be in the business of determining what are and what are not valid religions.

The funny thing is that this is more or less the reason that we have the system we have. There are a nest of problems that we had and tried to address. The two most important were:

* Religious tax filings claim exemptions like every other tax return... but what's a "legitimate business expense" for a religion? Who decides? That kind of government oversight of running a church was, at best, invasive and messy. At worst, it was a clear violation of the first amendment because it necessarily made law respecting the establishment of religion.
* These activities were often entwined with political activities, adding another layer of complexity and and pain in teasing out the details.

So the current system was a compromise of sorts. We evolved a system of non-taxation and then layered on top of it a definition of a religious (and therefore tax-exempt) organization that precluded direct involvement in politics. It's essentially a total separation of church and state, and to say that the two should be separated, but we should get our piece of the action would seem... more than a little disingenuous.

But here's the rub: **we've abandoned enforcement of the second half of that deal**! We've essentially given a free tax break to a political lobby, and that was absolutely not the goal! What we should do is return to strict enforcement of the latter part of the deal, not by arresting or fining anyone, but simply by rejecting their tax-exempt status when they involve themselves in politics. There is a wall there, and you are free to cross the wall and become a tax-paying organization any time you like.
 Either anything can be a religious exemption, like the video game I bought the other day, or nothing is. ANY other option is effectively establishing religion. Tax them or let me make my own personal religion.  Do you have a link to this? I would love to read on the history of how this developed. It sounds like the initial intent was perfectly acceptable and well-reasoned, but out of the tunnel came this bastardized version that allows churches to proselytize and pay no taxes at the same time. Except the column was saying all non-profits should be taxed.  Doesn't matter how much "actual work" they do. I hate saying this but it should probably be tiered.  Many poor churches can barely keep the roof on and the boiler lit.  If they had to pay property taxes and a percentage on their donations, they would certainly fall.  However some of these massive churches that take in millions yearly... yeah have at it. And maybe some breaks for maintaining historical landmarks. you know there's a lot of non-profit orgs that are pretty poor as well. they still are able to fill out their tax exempt paper work. if a church wants that status they should be held to the same standard.

 And if a church wants to be tax exempt like a nonprofit, it needs to actually be treated like any other nonprofit organization: like a business.

If a church doesn't raise enough money and do enough outreach work to operate and maintain it's nonprofit status, then let it shut down. Just put up a cell phone tower disguised awkwardly as a cross-adorned church bell tower. That's silly. There are plenty of other businesses that would be viable with a tax exemption, they just don't exist because they haven't had one.  You try to explain to low income neighborhoods that their one outlet for community isn't economically viable so we are closing their church  Non-profits don't have to be charities. A community outreach center is a perfectly valid non-profit entity. So now every single church just re-classifies. Back to square one. Honestly, this might force churches to actually perform community outreach and not just make people attend church.  More structure might be beneficial in this case. I get that you may have had a bad experience at a church or two but the vast majority of churches don't operate how /r/atheism thinks they do. I guess my point is that, if they are legitimately providing more than just church service, they would retain their exempt status any way. Except there are rules for nonprofits, such as not requiring people to be part of your religion to reap benefits. &gt; So now every single church just re-classifies. Back to square one.

Not really. It is my understanding that non-profits have to explain what money comes in and out in their taxes. Churches do not. We don't know how they spend their money. 

For Bob's Corner Church, maybe not such a big deal. But for mega-churches and Scientology, it will expose how much money is wasted and basically stolen from believers who think this money is being used for church related services. Looking at the preachers mansion, cars, and $3k suits should be enough evidence for someone at a mega church. I honestly don't know why they even give money. They have to know where it is going. when it gets to the big ones i think thats where the questions are being raised.the salvation army not exactly a church gets millions from the government and they arent ever held responsible or have to account for what they do.. its the only outreach i know of that gets away with requiring to attend a sermon before you eat.
i know ive been in a couple. But then they'd have to be not-for-profit and have to abide by some pretty nice rules. The addition of rules is a nice win without it being obstructive to small churches. Are these businesses actively trying to help people? Is a church that is so poor it can hardly keep the lights on actively trying to help people? is it actually *able* to help people, or does it need help itself?! And if it's barely existing, doesn't have the resources to help anyone, and the only thing keeping it afloat is its tax-exempt status, should it really be open at all? There's at least 10 churches in my immediate area. I'm pretty sure we would be okay with just 8 or 9. The trick is you see 10 churches and they see *their* church and 9 that are doing it wrong/ aren't 'true' christians like them Then they either need to pay more for their hobby, or join forces with some other org.

I'm sure there are other things which the participants feel is worth doing, but just can afford to anyway, and which isn't tax exempt. 