Spencer's is going to be pissed. Basically half their merchandise, the sex toy half is still safe Good thing they don't have Bob Marley sex toys. yet.

i'll let you know when we get it in. "No dildo no cry" "buffalo dildo"  Redemption Plug Satisfy My Hole Trenchtown Cock Concrete Bunghole. Three Little Beads Sit on My Doorstep Is this love that I'm feelin'? Shouldn't it be Redemption Dong? ******

*Ooh, yeah! All right!*

*We're jammin':*

*I wanna jam it wid you.*

*We're jammin', jammin',*

*And I hope you like jammin', too.*

*Ain't no rules, ain't no vow, we can do it anyhow:*

*I'n'I will see you through,*

*'Cos everyday we pay the price with a little sacrifice,*

*Jammin' till the jam is through.*

*We're jammin' -*

*To think that jammin' was a thing of the past;*

*We're jammin',*

*And I hope this jam is gonna last.*

****** Not sure if I'll ever be able to listen to this song the same after this. Didn't really have to change much of the lyrics for this to make sense in this context.  Nice. *I wanna jam it in you** Introducing the Rasterbater! One Love fits all! Also available in novelty "Buffalo Soldier" size! Get the sex toy in to what exactly...? ... There's some overlap. Bill O'Reilly is trying to get them to stop putting his image on all the dildos. I think you're confused by the genius marketing. The dildos are just designed like dicks.  6/10 I don't know what's funnier: The original joke about O'Reilly being a dick. The second joke not catching it. Or you rating the joke that didn't get the first one.

Who's on first again? Yes.  Still.  Since 1938. 

You'd think he'd retire eventually. But Heed is only 24! He's far too young to retire. I imagine a lot of their stuff IS licensed, like all the Misfits gear and other band shirts. Now we just have to get Che Guevara's people to do the same.  Fuck that. We need to get Calvin to stop peeing on shit.  Yes! Thank you. I'm glad I'm not the only one that didn't like those. Calvin was a precocious lad but I don't think that means he just went around pissing on everything.  The really aggravating part is most of the people who have those dont even know who Calvin and Hobbes are. http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Guerrillero_Heroico#Current_legal_status TL;DR: According to Cuban law, "pictures taken in Cuba fall into the public domain worldwide, 25 years after their first use."

That's some damn progressive copyright regime there. Or the original purpose of it. We just have great lobbyism in the us that does an excellent job of undermining it. Looking at you Mickey Mouse.

Edit: a word. Copyright length was about that long here in the US at the begining. It also required reregistration halfway through to even get to that length. It was well on its way up before Mickey, though he is responsible for the most recent extention. To be honest, I don't think we should be talking about the "original purpose" of intellectual property laws when what they apply to has fundamentally changed. We need a discussion on what contemporary IP law ought to achieve, and that should include not just the rights of content creators, but also the rights of users and re-users. I really recommend reading Lawrence Lessig's works on that ([here's a great TED talk by him](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7Q25-S7jzgs)), and perhaps even Yochai Benkler's wonderful *The Wealth of Networks* if you really want to get into it. Even in the beginning, IP law was never supposed to be about the rights of the creators. It's goal has always been about promoting the progress of "science and the useful arts". Current law is based around the idea that protecting their income will lead to the progress. Nowadays though, IP law is being used as a tool to stifle competition. This is the opposite of what was intended.  Me I see it both ways.  If the Disney company is no longer allowed to protect their product,  then what about companies that make physical goods.  Should anyone be able to manufacture and distribute coke products?  Should people eventually be allowed to sell a knock off iPhone?  There are quite a few examples of companies that have been selling products under the same name for a really long time.  Mickey Mouse is as much a part of their company name as Disney.  The original creator may be dead,  but I don't think the intentions of those originally involved is gone.  Walt Disney always seemed like a man attempting to build a very successful company and his predecessors have continued to do that.  

The way I see it,  if the rights to something were not given away before death  then they should go to the public.  But if the creator decides to pass it on forever,  then it should.  

Where I start drawing the line,  is on creations Disney did not originally invent.  Fairy tales that existed long before.  I think their visual form the of the character should be protected,  but not the name,  story,  etc.  &gt; Where I start drawing the line, is on creations Disney did not originally invent. Fairy tales that existed long before. 

DIsney owns their version, just like a specific performance and recording of say Bach is copyrighted while the music its self is public domain.  

 Exactly and that's how it should be.  OK? Disney can still copyright it's version of the fairy tale and copyright it as such. That's not what you originally said. &gt; hould anyone be able to manufacture and distribute coke products?

Yes, but not call them 'Coke". Trademarks and patents are two different things, do not conflate them.

&gt;Should people eventually be allowed to sell a knock off iPhone? 

Yes, but not call it an iphone.

&gt;But if the creator decides to pass it on forever, then it should.

What? You have no idea how long forever is. The very last thing we want as a society and planet is 'intellectual property' lasting forever. There have been a number of sci-fi shorts detailing what can go wrong when that happens. It's very similar to what we see now. Instead of companies producing the products, patent troll companies buy up everything they can and sue others.
 &gt; Yes, but not call them 'Coke". Trademarks and **copyright** are two different things, do not conflate them.

FTFY. The original topic was copyright, not patents, which are a third, unrelated thing altogether. Impossible. Cuba itself produces a lot of Guevara merchandise, and a ton of other related things, like propaganda posters. Outside of the US, it's not uncommon to see shirts and posters or whatever actually produced there. Good luck stopping that. I have a pair of boxers with Che Guevara somwhere in my closet that my relatives brought me back from Cuba as a gag gift. Where can I buy a Che Guevara boxers with him somewhere in your closet?  A more important question would be, why does he have 3 people in his closet?  A lesson in sharing. Tom Cruise was getting lonely. I know! We'll set up an embargo. That'll show 'em. But how will college students advertise to everyone that they smoke marijuana without having the actual leaf on their clothing? lrg? Is lrg a known stoner lable?  Lifted Research Group. Trees designs lol  For the longest time I thought LRG stood for Large.. Holy shit. I have a sweatshirt by them and wear it all the time, even at school. 



I didn't even know...



Edit: Okay, browsing their website, the stuff isn't *that* bad.  Better pick up a bong, son. I'm so embarrassed, all my interactions with that on are starting to make sense now.  For reals, son! Even pops knows what's up.
http://i.imgur.com/QJXiQAi.jpg His hair is fucking turning into one giant strand of hair..... I believe that's known as a Congo. When you neglect your dreds, they sort of fuse together.  Dat big nasty dread that looks like a dried wolf turd glued to the back of his self assured dome.  Yeah he just gave up on trying to control it. This was about 5 years ago, they're down to his knees almost now.... all three of them. Natty dread bo' Stories? Sweatshirt pics? Please I'll be your best friend I just like LRG's Giraffe. I have a couple of shirts. They're nice. My favorite lrg shit http://i.imgur.com/6nTSXMj.jpg

http://i.imgur.com/CgLRaoo.jpg Shits pretty dope I really like that one, so I went to their website, and they have not a lot of stuff for women and what they do have is kind of ugly. I'm bummed, I wanted something cool and tie-dye.  Hey, that's a nice shirt, but what does you defecating have to do with this?  haha Bill Hicks  [Yeah, I can't tell at all.](http://www.amazon.com/LRG-Joint-Chiefs-Staff-Crewneck/dp/B00K3582MK/ref=sr_1_6?s=apparel&amp;ie=UTF8&amp;qid=1424595392&amp;sr=1-6&amp;keywords=lrg) one of my favorite shirts is an lrg tee with a teal/black giraffe smoking with sunglasses on. They're stuff is related to stoners but it's not some stupidly blatant (think giant potleaf) that you'd find on like Venice beach You forgot that a few of their items say "Hustle Trees" as well. Because every good drug dealer knows that they need to advertise that they have the loud to everyone. I like to let the aroma from my pocket be the advertising. Walk through a crowded party with a fat sack of diggity dank in your pocket and they'll come to you like you're the damned Pot Pied Piper Pussy has that same effect bro. If you're going to do something like that identifies that you got that super loud, clearly OG Kush, on deck you just need to wear the HUF socks and an LRG piece of gear. If you want to let people know you have weed, just be high and look like a stoner, I get asked once a week if I have any. So.. you holdin'? I know what it's short for but what's it got to do with weed?  Back in the day when they first came out, they had tons of "HUSTLE TREES" Lrg shirts, and a lot of other marijuana references. They are super main stream now but back than they used to be street wear and put a lot of stuff on their designs. Nowadays it's sold in shopping malls and such so they don't really go all out on weed references no more. But trust me LRG got popular due to being related to weed.

Source: im from Nor Cal, specifically Bay Area. They were popular here, I believe the brand started in LA. They were killing it in sales trumping surf brands and everything else.. for a while. Reminds me of diamond brand. they literally started selling nuts and bolts for skateboards. They had that cool diamond logo and made a few shirts and blew up so big that they are like obey now  LRG peaked 6-7 years ago like Diamond did 2-3 years ago I can confirm this. I have an LRG shirt that has a tree on it. 

http://i.imgur.com/h6hmwJa.jpg Yeah but a lot of LRG does actually have the leaf on it, I just got one lol Why is this downvoted?? Tons of LRG has staright up MJ leaves on it. [I dunno, you sure?](http://www.dogfunk.com/images/items/900/LRG/LRG0186/GN.jpg)

/s  Actually those arent leaves, thats the flowering bud DUH! /s Context is helpful... without the explanations I would have looked at this and gotten confused why someone would wear lettuce printed shorts. Yo, what kind of lettuce do you get that comes with orange hairs? I get those iceberg mixes that tend to come with carrots? XD That is some dank ass lettuce. Cause I'm a douche with a shirt that has a marijauna plant on it :/  yes https://img.4plebs.org/boards/pol/image/1392/34/1392345292817.jpg

When you look like this, people will just know. The cut off chin makes him look like he has a growth. I'd buy it. to me it just makes him look like tarantino I'd say that's his brother, Tentin Quarantino   Can't unsee. By being in college. Buffalooooo souljaaaa Exactly. I always found it stupid that it was next to impossible to find a poster of Bob Marley where he isn't smoking a joint. I thought he was a musician.  A Rastafarian musician. It's kind of a big part of their identity. Also apparently I'm the one person who liked Bob Marley's music, wore his shirt, and never smoked pot.

Edit: I get it, I'm not special. Please stop attacking my inbox.  I get that it was part of his identity, but it got so commercialized in weed culture that it became warped and missed the point. Eventually people liked Bob Marley the Stoner more than Bob Marley the musician, or Bob Marley the activist.  Well he did advocate smoking weed, smoked weed all the time and wrote a song about smoking weed (Kaya) He has quite a few songs about smoking weed. Also, there is an extra long joint that sits on his tomb in Nine Mile and they supposedly put one inside the casket with his as well. 

A lot of people on reddit like to act like the marijuana association is disrespectful or misrepresentative of his legacy but it was actually an integral part of who he was, and there's nothing wrong with that. 

Source: Been to his childhood home/tomb in Nine Mile, Jamaica.  I'd say the majority like Bob Marley the musician I find it impossible to find a Marley shirt without the obligatory text under the image "Bob Marley"... No shit, nobody else looks anything like that man.  You haven't met many rastas have you  HR from Bad Brains used to look like Bob Marley, but now he just looks like a burnt out wizard. https://seedlessclothing.com/book/ The alternative...
http://store.africanapparelstore.com/product/john-marley-t-shirt Prince has hardly even aged Haha. Oh man, now that you say that, I'm kind of thinking of making a shirt with Jimmy's face and the Prince symbol right above it.  Jimi Marley, isn't that one the 12 sons?  I was worried it was one of those shitty Chinese shirts where they got things mixed up until I saw [this](http://store.africanapparelstore.com/product/holotropic-beaver-synesthesia) Spencer's just filed for bankruptcy. now i need a new job. shit. If you were working there, sounds like you needed a new job anyway. Can confirm. First job was at Spencer's, was the absolute worst experience of my life.  Really? Working at a mall? nah, i get pretty decent money and hours, i'm good until i finish school. They don't want to stop it, just get paid for it.. Nothing wrong with that.  Wellll, they're not Bob Marley so maybe there is. I don't know if there's a solid reason you should be able to make money out your dads face while stopping others from doing so just because you came out of one of his balls. Yeah, owning the likeness and creative works of your ancestors creates problems. Nothing stops you from being a dick, as the King family, Tolkien family, and a few other families have discovered. I'd rather creative works and patents became public once the entity on the paperwork ceases to exist, whether that entity was a person, persons, or a company.

It's strange when people think they're entitled to royalties or inheritances by virtue of existing.  Say what you will about the others, but the Tolkien estate were royally screwed by hollywood accounting practices.  Regardless of whether they should have had the rights in the first place, fact was they did and they were conned out of a great deal of money.  I can see why that'd put one off to making more films. I haven't heard anything about this, so I looked it up.

&gt; **J. R. R. Tolkien**, the author of The Hobbit and The Lord of the Rings, sold the film, stage and merchandising rights of those works to United Artists in 1968, who in turn sold them to The Saul Zaentz Company in 1976 which licenses them through Tolkien Enterprises.

Apparently the rights were sold by Tolkien himself.

&gt; Similarly, the Tolkien estate sued New Line, claiming that their contract entitled them to **7.5% of the gross receipts of the $6 billion hit**. According to New Line's accounts the trilogy made "horrendous losses" and no profit at all.

That is a whopping 450 million dollars. Holy shit.

I hate these contractual and tax loopholes so fucking much. " The losses were so horrendous we made 3 more movies!" "The losses were so great we decided to make another 3 movies to our failed concept when we could have just made one!" Hollywood accounting should be illegal.  The IRS should be asking where New Line/Warner are getting the money they report as profit? By their own admission it doesn't appear to be coming from the films they release. Are they selling drugs and arms, using the filmmaking business as a front?

And yes, it should be illegal. There are reasonable costs, and there is a studio clearly inflating costs or charging entirely unrelated costs to the project. It's difficult to see how good faith/fair dealing comes in to these contracts. ...while they whine about piracy. I don't even pirate content but their practices make me want to. Yep, just like the music business. Think of the money you're literally stealing from an artist when you copy their CD! Sure, I'll think of that money. I'll more than double it by personally mailing the artist a dollar instead of buying the $15 CD. All they are doing is saying the film isn't making money. They make money off of all the business they own that charge costs to film. The real issue is why are they doing it in the first place. I mean a large number know about it already. Is there another tax reason for doing it this way. I wouldn't really consider the Tolkien family lumped in with those others. Chris Tolkien has done a great deal of work to continue his fathers work with the help of other editors. A decent number of works are sporting his name too.  While i can see your point, i think anyone who creates any form of art will disagree.

If i spend my life building a business, when i die i know that business will be passed on to my family, I'm leaving them with a future. 

If i spend my life creating art, should they not have the same entitlements? Why should the fruit of my labor become public when i die, rather than passing to my family like anything else a man earns in his life? Not only for inheritances, but older artists can make money selling the rights to various works when they're older, sort of like an artist's pension. If those rights didn't last as long after the artist's death, suddenly that source of retirement income is lost or diminished significantly. Rights to creative works are property, just like your parent's house and the money that grandma set aside to send you to college. Artists and writers have as much right as anyone else to pass down the property they have created/acquired to their children as anyone else. 

Copyright length is a bit ridiculous at this point, but saying that creative property shouldn't be inherited is just plain crap. I think in this case the creative work is his music, not his face. Unless his kids somehow made his face art, or famous. For a celebrity, their "brand"/image is also their property. What else do people "famous for being famous" have otherwise ? I don't necessarily like celebrities, but they did somehow work to become famous, and their "brand" is their property. (of course Marley became famous because of his music, but I guess you get my point that his music and his celebrity-ness are two separate things, even though one caused the other) Interesting, post mortem right of publicity is a thing that the states differ on. In TN you have a state law that protects the use of images of the famous dead. Many states have denied this type of right--imo for good reason. Now federal law is leaning towards plugging this gap with the old Lanham Act consumer confusion angle. It's a depressing example of the inexorable expansion of intellectual property (I use the term loosely--I understand the Lanham Act is a creature of the Commerce Clause). But I'm for reasonable limits on protection of intangible property. The trend of corporate pressure on the law causing our public domain to erode is sickening to me. Well, it's not like creative heirs are doing any worse than business heirs. See also: Waltons, Hiltons.  I could understand if it was in a slanderous way but the imagery appears to be positive. I'd just be pleased with the world celebrating and thinking my old man was pretty cool. It would be nice to see him live on and be remembered after he's gone It also seems silly that Bob Marley is a face of capitalism and materialism. I don't think he'd dig that. He'd rather we make love and upturn corrupt government or something. Jah Think about it this way - do you have a problem with parents' money going to their children? It's essentially the same thing. Marley would have been entitled to that money, so - in his absence - why shouldn't it go to his next of kin? That frames it like Marley had no say in the matter. But given how he died and his relationship with his son I think he probably wanted them to inherent the brand he built, which included his likeness. If that's the case, I think his son very much has a right to decide how the licenses that his father legally handed him are used.

Edit: a better way to frame it would be--if Marley were still around would you mind him doing this? Either a yes or a no answer both lead to good reasons his son should have this right. Why do his children own his likeness? Does that make much sense?  &gt; I think it is more making it less profitable for them to use his image. The situation of Che Guvera's image is similar
I think it is more making it less profitable for them to use his image. The situation of Che Guvera's image is similar
"We're not after money, we just don't want him misused. He can be a universal person, but respect the image."  Aleida Guevara, Che's daughter I'm printing a line of Che shirts where he's sucking off Joseph Stalin.

History will absolve me. [I'm still going to wear my shirt](http://i.imgur.com/WgAB6Ih.jpg) That's hilarious. Where can you get it? College freshmen everywhere are freaking out right now. Because their shirts just went way up in value? Well their moms have to wash the stank out first. [R.I.P :(](http://mystarclub.com/wp-content/uploads/2012/12/bob-marley-drink.jpg) Marley's family is involved with this, along with a number of other products pimping out his image. That drink is fantastic, and it does  in fact, put you in a VERY mellow mood.  That's because you were already high before you drank it.  Oh... Yeah. Yeah I guess that's right. Some people react very strongly to placebo. [deleted] id rather be able to choose who uses my dads likeness for shirts than having EVERYONE use it and making him look terrible. im sure its not just to make money but to protect the family name and his dads reputation. Fortunately my Bob Marley Riot Police Shield is already en route. &gt;photos of Marley in Walmart, Target, and a bunch of other major retailers.

Man, that Bob Marley sure liked his shopping. HOPEFULLY THIS TURNS OUT MORE FORTUNATE THAN MY BEANIE BABY COLLECTION. 609 comments so far and no one actually gets the point.  They aren't "keeping his image pure", they are securing their own right [to profit from plastering it on items like soft drink cans.](http://www.brandchannel.com/home/post/2013/02/08/Marley-Relaxation-020813.aspx)  Like most of the commenters, I would prefer to see him remembered as a thoughtful, three dimensional person, rather than as "Saint Weed".  But this limits his image to large corporate projects with deep pockets, it is more of an affront to his memory than what a million bootleg printers did. You mean what a million bootleg printers will continue to do.

See: Bill Watterson Thank fucking christ. Making stoners a litte less obnoxious one step at a time. Solution? Find a guy that looks like Bob Marley, license his face under GPL and sell merchandise with his free open-source face! and call him Rob Barley Roberto Marlee there must always be a Barley on JamacaFell ! Praissssssssse Jahhhhh! It makes me sick when I see him on things at walmart They will still be in Walmart, the only difference is that now his family will be getting the money instead of the random companies that are making them now. No more One Love i guess Zero love. Yes, now they alone can capitalize on what he did. And pump up the price as they'll have the monopoly over the Bob Marley merchandise market.   While I can sort of understand their point and obviously getting more money is nice, but... I think Marley would disagree. He wasn't all about the money, he had a point to his music and he would be happy people remember and respect him.  The problem is when people start putting his face on things that Marley would not support in any way, and yet the manufacturers make bank off of it. There's a bob marley bottle of pop where I am. That seems a bit weird to me.  I honestly was a little shocked when I saw "Marley's mellow mood" for the first time. I immediately, shamefully, bought a bottle. I like that stuff.  It is weird though.
 It's also backed by his family. This isn't about protecting his image from corporate interests, it's about protecting their interests. Exactly. Hell they just signed a deal to release Marley brand weed. They're protecting their brand, not his legacy. I used to drink it before bed to help me get to sleep.  You can buy melatonin for way cheaper than a bottle of that stuff. He wasn't all about the money, but he did enjoy the things it bought. He owned a bunch of cars, nice houses, tonnes of clothes, etc.

Let's not pretend he'd be rolling in his grave seeing his kids and grandkids benefit from his work. He was a big family man, he'd probably be happy. He even licensed his image himself when he was alive. I think it is more making it less profitable for them to use his image. The situation of Che Guvera's image is similar 

&gt; "We're not after money, we just don't want him misused. He can be a universal person, but respect the image."
&gt;  Aleida Guevara, Che's daughter You really seem to know a lot about what bob Marley thought.  Please tell me this includes those overpriced headphones I bet this will have a big impact on the tens of thousands of shitty merchandise manufacturers out there. Yeah, so *they* can put his face on stuff instead, or get licensing fees.

Make no mistake; This, like everything, is only about the money. Heirs?  You mean all 3,820 of them?

/Bob liked to fuck. What does this mean for Mellow Moods?!?! I think the family is involved in the production of the Mellow Mood brand so I think they won't stop making them. Those drinks are actually awesome, would hate to see them go! Put Ziggy on it. As a ganj enthusiast and bob marley listener( I like his music but dunno if I could go so far as to say im a fan) I'm happy about this. I hate stoner culture. Its so tacky.  How long will it be till these are mostly gone? Ive avoided them thinking theyre pretty tacky and common  but if they're going to stop production id like to get one for the future. I'm not sure I even agree with this.  If the guy is dead and an important cultural figure, I think there may be some pictures of him that could be considered as not belonging to his estate.  And if the estate disagrees with that, I guess people will just have to buy stuff from some foreign country that doesn't belong to his heirs.  That particular picture of your grandfather might belong to a record label or a photographer, but the very idea of an image of your grandfather does not belong to you simply because you're related to him, or you inherited his properties.  Hopefully this means the interested parties make the desired merchandise available at a reasonable price, of course, but I don't think it should go so far as to make something like a drawing of a very famous guy on a t-shirt legally actionable. Well if you think this is bad, "I Have a Dream" speech is also trademarked. And yet it still puzzles people why nobody respects copyright laws. I should copyright the word copyright and make billions for my hard work. You have copyright and trademark backwards and don't seem to understand what it means to trademark a word He better not have, I patented not understanding stuff I trademarked the phrase "I don't understand" so your patent is invalid due to previous art. I Have a Dream was a work written by MLK. He is its author. Therefore it makes sense to fall under copyright law.

As I understand it, however, (PLEASE chime in if I'm on the wrong track) it's nature as a public performance changes the way it may be used/when it cannot. Footage of it being "performed" is not owned by the estate, for example. That footage belongs to the owners of the film.

But yeah... copyright has gotten insanely overreaching. 75 years after death? Absurd. Look for it on YouTube.  It wasn't up there last I checked and never wad before that. That is arguably the most important speech of the entire 20th century espousing values and ideals that are embraced by every political candidate and nearly every American today. It had a profound impact on our society. So yeah, when you see that even that is taken from us it's kind of like "eh fuck you guys this is no longer fair or just, why should I be?" It's all over youtube here for me...

Like I said, the footage is owned by the people who shot it, like any other news footage. It's shitty, but where do you draw lines? A photographer shooting pictures of the event owns those pictures as well. How significant/old does it have to be to become public domain? 

As for copyrighting the word copyright... Apple has NEW patents on 20+ year old ideas (magnetic power cord... been on kettles for decades. IT'S JUST A FUCKING POWER CORD! PUTTING IT ON A COMPUTER DOESN'T MAKE IT A NEW INVENTION!). 

You just might be able to pull it off in this great nation... IP laws in America are fucked. The only GOOD thing that they have going on is first to create (or whatever the phrase is) instead of first to file. You can fight someone's patent by proving prior art. It complicates the fuck out of things, but first to file plays only into the hands of giants. I have to agree. He's an important figure in history now. What if we couldn't produce the likeness of Napolean or Genghis Khan? Think about it as a way of helping his legacy. People can't make just any image of him. You can't be picky with copyright... if you allow one picture of his face, you'd have to allow any other picture of his face. Control by the family can prevent misuse of his legacy, a use of it in a way that is respectful to him without nearly as much potential for abuse. The length is debatable, but for a lot of big, important works, the legacy is just as important as the work itself... for an author, for example, a movie based on their work might paint a certain impression of their books. Shouldn't the family have the right to decide who makes that movie to try and ensure a positive impression? Good luck with that. Great.. now I have to rename our printer at work.  This may be because the Marley family now has their own products being branded with Bob's image. http://m.bbc.com/news/world-latin-america-30110235 Like that will actually do anything. Watterson never syndicated, but I still see bumper stickers of Calvin pissing on things or praying to a cross all the time. Now starts the age of vaguely familiar silhouettes.  They key phrase is "without permission". You'll probably still see his face on kids t shirts in walmart, the only difference being that his family will get licensing revenue. I'd just like to say a big "fuck you" the the american legal system.  They made the right call within the law, thereby completely fucking the entire planets right to create art.  If your idea of "art" is Bob Marley t-shirts, I guess you're right. Now his heirs are partnering with a private equity firm from the US to sell legal cannabis.  This is only because his heirs are putting his face on everything themselves. They want them royalties This article is written so poorly. It sounds as if a middle schooler wrote it. I wonder if any Che Guevara heirs will turn up so that they can sell his likeness instead.... Good! Tired of seeing his face on shit anyway! Now if only we could get a ruling against his heirs playing reggae. Or please at least label them yeah that'd be a good start... i've noticed spotify's classifications for explicit albums is totally fucked up. some stuff is properly labeled "explicit", some stuff is explicit but without the label, and some stuff is correctly missing the label and is actually clean. Some songs I've heard are labled explicit, but are actually censored. That upsets me. damn that's even worse lol. i haven't encountered one of those yet. that's like the "taking a shit and then realizing someone used all the toilet paper and didnt replace the roll" of the music world I'm tired of these monkey fightin' snakes on this Monday to Friday plane! Yippie ki-yay, Mr. Falcon! Melonfarmers. THIS IS WHAT HAPPENS WHEN YOU FIND A STRANGER IN THE ALPS My personal favorite.  You mean "taking a .... and then realizing someone used all the toilet paper and didnt replace the roll" of the music world.  All of the lights by kanye west is one of these Some albums have explicit and clean songs. Like wtf? http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/As_Nasty_As_They_Wanna_Be#As_Clean_As_They_Wanna_Be &gt; Federal district judge Jose Gonzalez ruled that the album was obscene, making it illegal in certain counties of Florida. Subsequently, on June 9, 1990, three band members were arrested, and their album seized, **when they performed some tracks at a local sex club**, in Broward County Florida.

Emphasis added. That's because it's not Spotify tagging them but the labels or artists themselves. tl;dr this. Unless Spotify gets a complaint, then they have literally no input (Or very slim, they probably dedup titles) on the titles of albums/tracks. On the iPhone app some of the dirty versions don't even show up so I have to go on the computer to add them. So aggravating.  Its the worst on the app, you can't even see the explicit tag because the whole name doesn't fit This kills me with rap. Ill add songs to a playlist or the queue only to listen to them later and they are the edited version.   I love bad ------ and that's my ------- problem . On radio they'll play a song like nigga's in Paris, just imagine how that would go My local radio plays IDFWU. So it sounds like this, " I don't [pause] with you! Little stupid [pause] [pause] I ain't [pause] with you. IDFWU isn't as bad on the radio because atleast you can understand big seans verse but try listening to hot nigga on the radio lol I tried listening to Bobby Bitch censored once.

"Tried". It was hilarious. I accidentally downloaded the censored version of "I Don't like". I still have no idea what exactly it is that Chief Keef doesn't like, but he seems really upset about it. BOBBY... bobby!

BOBBY... bobby! Probably less bad than a song where the hook is "I love bad bitches that's my fucking problem"  I love bad bad, that's my that's my problem. And yeah I like to [tru] that my that my problem.  [Rocky's verse](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=tzL2sJKnAaM#t=40) is by far the most but butchered verse I've heard when it was edited. My favorite lines are 
&gt;"Make that thing.....like a... or a......oooo baby like it....." 

and
&gt;
"cause im the.............................." 

Even DMX's [Ruff Ryder's anthem](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ihN3aHuBTfM) was re-recorded for radio, even if it is still not exactly the most kid friend song

 And yeah I like to like to I got a got a problem They played that song on a station in Toronto. Can confirm, bad. censored bad i hope "I love bad-bads that's my-that's my problem" True I love bad bad that's my that's my problem.  It's like trying to watch 8 Mile on MTV. 

Why even bother? Half of it is silent. Australia has one station (Triple J) that's all about the music being how it should and that includes explicit lyrics. All they do is a language warning at the start. 
I could never imagine listening to music where it sounds like the singer has a stammer. I love bad bad that's my that's my problem. Ya they sometimes randomly swap out the real/clean versions after you've added it to a playlist. They've had this as an open issue for at least 2 years. Holy shit I thought I was going crazy when this happened to me before. I had listened to songs off an album multiple times and they were not edited, then all of a sudden one day I noticed a bunch of bleep outs, or whatever you call it when they silence the explicit parts. Seemed extra weird too because I sync my playlists to my phone to save on data while traveling, which I assume means it has to resync the edited version as well.  THIS is why I am constantly having to go back and edit my playlists.  This is the thing that could get me to leave Spotify. Also when suddenly a song doesn't play because and you get no notice but just have to discover for your self. Yeah I left because it just became too annoying. I use rhapsody now and have been pretty happy with it.  I have playlists of certain artists just so I can keep the explicit stuff sorted out. Sometimes on my phone I can't even find the explicit version, like for Childish Gambino's Camp. Don't you like that whirly sound or word repeat when they go to bleep out the explitive? I just drank a fifth of cool aid, dare me to drive? Cool or Kool? I just listened to the edited version of Stan the first time, quote: "I had a friend ____ himself over some bitch that didn't want him." Because it's always ok to disrespect women. but don't talk about suicide. Every kid who has ever heard of suicide tries it. Suicide is the new gateway drug. My buddy did two suicides last year and now he's in jail.

#America There's actually 3 versions of this song. The "clean" version, the "dirty version" and the "uncensored" version. 

Some notable lines from the clean version are:

* *Hi, kids do you like 'Primus', wanna see me stick Nine Inch Nails through each one of my eyelids?* -- The dirty and uncensored version both say "violence" instead of Primus. This was when the school shooting stuff was taking off really big so all the violent lyrics were taken out for MTV play. But Primus and NIN were huge alternative bands at the time so it makes for an even cooler play on words.

* *Well, since age twelve I felt like I'm someone else
Cause I hung my original self from the top bunk with a belt* was changed to *Since age 12 I felt like a caged elf
Who stayed to himself in one space, chasing his tail* in the clean version.

There's a bunch of other lines changed in the song, but here's where both the "clean" and "dirty" versions differ from the original, uncensored version:

* *My English teacher wanted to have sex in junior high
The only problem was, my English teacher was a guy* was the original lyric but was changed to *My English teacher wanted to flunk me in junior high. Thanks a lot, next semester I'll be thirty-five* in the dirty and clean versions.

* *Extraterrestrial killing pedestrians, raping lesbians, in a spaceship while they're screaming at me "Let's just be friends!"* is the origianl lyric changed to *Extraterrestrial running over pedestrians In a spaceship while they're screaming at me "Let's just be friends!"*

* And on the last line of the third verse both the dirty and clean versions say, *And by the way, when you see my dad, Tell him that I slit his throat in this dream I had* ..of course the clean version bleeps the slitting throat part but the original lyric was *And by the way, when you see my dad, Ask him if he bought a porno mag to see my ass*

I believe the single version of the original, uncut version came out first, but the musician who made the sample used in the song is gay, and wanted the homophobic lyrics cut before they would clear the sample for the album release. I just know it makes it really hard to find the uncut version on youtube so I ended up looking into this. Thanks [rapgenius](http://genius.com/Eminem-my-name-is-lyrics)

[original version of My Name Is](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jHBIpsPjc6U)

[official "dirty" version](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LDj8kkVwisY)

[the clean version](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sNPnbI1arSE) Personally I like this line more than the original. Except for the whole "not making any sense" part. 

You only like it *because* you know the real lyrics.  When I was in fourth grade and managed to get the Slim Shady LP by recording it onto a cassette after my friends mom let him get the edited version on the CD.. I thought he was talking about the cult that drank kool-aid..  So he was saying dare me to drive because he just drank poison and was obviously going to die and then crash into something.

Now, at 24, I'm wondering how the hell how fourth-grade me knew anything about the whole jonestown thing.  I've noticed Spotify has an issue where they change versions of songs on you. I'll save a version of a song in a playlist, and later on it'll change to a clean version or live version. That's due to licensing agreements. Artist catalogues can come and go and Spotify will attempt to replace them to keep you happier than just purging your playlist entirely. It's a lose-lose for everyone and I'm sure Spotify aren't particularly happy about it either. That's also happened to me with whole artist catalogues before. Peter Gabriel, for example. I had "Big Time" in a playlist for the longest time, and then all of a sudden one day the song was completely different. Different artist, different song, different album art attached, but yet the track listing still read "Peter Gabriel, 'Big Time'" and it was like that for the majority of his catalogue, with a few exceptions. 

Interestingly, it was like that for about 6 months or so, and then it went back to being the correct songs. 

EDIT: just checked and now pretty much all of his albums are gone again, except.... a live album. Seconded for Pandora. And let me filter out live performances! I always figured they throw the live versions in there because the royalties are so much cheaper. This is the truth The worst is when it plays the live version right after it played the normal version.  Then it plays one of the 11 remixes. Why is that? Because no one wants to hear them. Oh man some of Justice's live stuff is better than the original IMO. Something about the live version just compliments their style.  an exception for me is Live From Space which was better than Watching Movies Because the live versions tend to be longer, and longer songs means fewer songs, and fewer songs mean fewer royalties. That's also why they play so many extended dance remixes, and why "Jungleland" and "Visions of Johanna" constantly pop up on my Springsteen station (thankfully I like both those songs.) Yeah, unless I'm listening to a band KNOWN for its live performances, don't give me a live version. I'm sick of hearing "I eat the pizza up" instead of "I eat the pussy up"  Hahahahaha holy shit is this actually what it got edited to? I almost fell off my chair laughing That sounds like some shit out of Kid's Bop lmao. beat* In pandora just hit the allow explicit content setting. I've always had that on and have never heard clean versions. Pandora has clean versions now? When I signed up, they claimed they  had only the unedited tracks out of principle. Gotta up the library count. I have this checked and they still randomly play clean versions. Pretty annoying I wouldn't mind being able to filter IN only live performances.  Peter Frampton "Do you feel like we do" Pandora has this option, go to settings and there should be an 'allow explicit lyrics' option This allows explicit content but does not filter out the edited content. It will just play both. Pandora also never uses remastered versions. So you often get shitty old quality. This is especially bad for Metal. Metal albums usually suck remastered. They just make it louder. Which makes it sound like total shit. I can turn the speakers up if I want it louder, thank you. The remastered Iron Maiden, and Megadeth are especially guilty.  Remove all the "inspired by" and karaoke versions also while you're at it. Yes! Goddamn it I'm so sick of shirty covers of songs popping up on playlists and radio.  How about Google Play Music where I uploaded *my* library to them, and then when I play the song back later, they are now the clean versions. WTF.  I cannot say how much this pisses me off. iTunes ruined my library with their match system They don't have the censored version of dmx party up in here, which is a shame because that is one of the greatest accomplishments in editing.  The sound effects are hilarious http://youtu.be/gGtVRQHeR5Q First verse is a masterpiece, thanks. I went through my whole life until right now not knowing there was an "explicit" version of that song. "suck my *WOOO*"

wow, thought that was gonna suck... you're right, that was funny as hell

EDit: you wanna hear a train-wreck? This train-wreck when its on the radio (Lil Wayne - Rich As Fuck).....

"All my __________ look ri_____________ ck" no scratches.... like half of that stupid ass song is blanked out. YES!
So tired of hearling complee silence for 0.5 sec.
It's just the amount of time you need to go "Que?" Qu? http://i.imgur.com/JZ85Pgu.gif they totally should bring "beeps" back  Oro? Even the concept of clean versions is bullshit.
Murica be like: "Yeah, our kids can listen to songs about violence, but they mustn't **ever** hear the word 'fuck', that's bad for their personality"  [deleted] Raccoons have a life expectancy of about 2 to 3 years... However, with good veterinary care, this life span can be extended by several years. The oldest know racoon, Merlin, is 14 years old. [ Not deleted] Something like "you can't even buy explicit albums at Wal Mart" based on the replies. I was thinking about that the other day!  It must be the fact there is no rating on the CDs or just that parents are more familiar with good fellas and pulp fiction than most rappers so they can self police easier. Once the parents have to do a google search worth of research they cant be bothered and leave it up to wal mart to protect their children because they are busy buying them CDs so they just shut up. [deleted] can you buy cannibal corpse albums at walmart? that would be the icing on the cake of irony They had skeletal domain. Didn't they have to change the artwork on *Butchered at Birth* to be sold in some places? Kinda. It was banned in Germany so they wrapped it in butcher paper and stamped the band logo on it. That's what I'm remembering. That's actually cooler than just a regular album release.  You can.

Shy of that, Master of Puppets will *always* be there. First song. Battery.

"Hungry violence-seeker, feeding off the weaker, breeding on insanity."

Anal retentive mothers *loathe* Metallia. Or even worse. Slayer. I love Metallica, but as far metal goes they're about as family friendly as you can get. Metallica is basically smooth jazz at this point. But they adore the Kidz Bop cover *Raining Love*.  &gt; It's well known that Jesus was actually Chinese.

I see what you did there.

Clever. I didn't, care to explain?
 The comment said one thing completely different, it got highly upvoted,  then he chanhed it to jesus being chinese to make it seem like people agreed with him.  Lots of people think that Jesus was Korean - a myth that 21 and 22 Jump Street only helped spread. His comment was accurately pointing out that Jesus was in fact of Chinese decent, a direct descendent of Qin Shi Huang. In mine, you can buy a machete off the rack about 10 aisles away. It's not even all that secure. Like the same plastic used for a kitchen knife. Indeed.. If they allow machetes which are obviously used to butcher other people, they ought to start selling coke and heroin. It's the same diff. Oh yeah. That's what we need. Great Value cocaine. 

You thought the Walmart factories in China were bad, wait until Walmart starts up cocaine factories in Peru. I have kids and like music full of curse words. But when I'm around my kids aged 6 and under I don't want to hear "fuck", "nigga", and "pussy" constantly. I don't think it'll ruin them, I just don't think they need to be repeating that stuff around grandma. What's wrong with that? You act like people are being oppressed. If you want the uncensored version then listen to the uncensored version.

Also, people who curse excessively look lowbrow and ignorant. I'm trying to make sure my kids have as many doors open to them as possible. Yes but the official main version should be uncensored. You're the one who should have to find the censored version and it should be clearly labeled. Not the other way around.  Agree 100%. I use Google Music and usually the only way to tell which is which is to look at the album art and check for the explicit lyrics sticker. The main uncensored version always appears first, though. I don't know about Spotify because they don't support Chromecast so I don't support them.

I suspect that both services just get their music as is from the labels and that they're the ones that need to be convinced to tag it appropriately. I've noticed if I've listened to both versions that Google will sometimes randomly switch around the censored and uncensored versions, probably due to having the same song title. I spent a little over a dollar on Google Play to buy Sweatpants by Childish Gambino. It turned out to be the clean version... Exactly. I have a bunch of kids under 8 and I love old school hip hop. When I'm in the car by myself, uncensored is great. But I can't just pretend not to notice the bad words when they're in the car, I have to find something clean. &gt;You act like people are being oppressed.

Welcome to reddit, where the real victim is the 20-something white male. &gt; Even the concept of ~~clean versions~~ *censorship in the US* is bullshit.

Seriously.. why do they have to censor everything?! it's a good idea for a studio to put out a 'clean' version of a song if they want it to be played on mainstream radio. yes, I know all us millennials want to pretend terrestrial radio is dead, but it's not in the ground just yet and it's still a big enough market that making a radio-friendly version of a song is just a smart thing to do from a business perspective. the alternative is 1) radio won't play it, you lose a significant base of listeners, or 2) individual radio stations butcher the song creating their own 'clean' edits.

also, remember, there's a difference between editing for radio and "censorship". censorship is either telling someone they can't have access to something because of objectionable content, or telling an artist they can't release something with objectionable content in the first place. a radio station, a private business who answers to their advertisers and not their listeners, absolutely has a right to say "we don't want the word 'fuck' on our airwaves". a basic cable TV station generally won't play hard core porn at 2 in the afternoon. that's not "censorship" either, it's a private business engaged in smart content selection.

additionally, there's passive consumption, where you hear music from walking through a mall or eating in a restaurant, and you have no control over the content. private businesses playing such music are simply being considerate if they actively avoid profanity coming from their speakers. sometimes "appropriate" is more desirable than "uncensored", nobody's being oppressed, nobody told the rappers and singers not to say those words, it's just that some individuals and businesses choose not to play those words, for a variety of reasons.

I, for one, was glad to discover the 'clean' version of Watsky's Cardboard Castles album on iTunes because it meant that I could put "Ugly Faces" on the playlist I listen to at work without worrying about customers complaining to my manager that I was forcing a string of 'shit's and 'fuck's on them. There's a difference between "censorship" and *censorship*, though. The former is where a person or company has the freedom to offer *more* options. The latter is where a person or company is forced to offer *fewer* options. Music companies offering consumers the option to choose is not *censorship*, per se. Censorship in US is nothing...  India actually has a Censor board which dictates which portions of a movie need to be cut before release, even for A ratings...  Public exhibition of an uncensored movie is an offence which can put you in jail Quiet you, we're circlejerking over here. &gt;Quiet you, we're      over here.

Thats how it would sound here :)  I like how you threw the word "US" in there, as if releasing a clean version of a song is somehow related to the country. Even implying that censorship in the the US is *worse* than most other countries, which is pretty laughable. I cant wait for that generation to die off. What if I told you that you're either in or beyond the generation; you will never live to see them die off. Better kill myself so I don't become part of the problem. If everyone were as responsible as you, we'd solve all the world's problems! This is how suicide pacts get started Not sure how it's Generation Y that is responsible for media censorship.  I say this because my generation grew up railing against censorship that the Boomers and Gen. Xers pushed on us as kids.  We tried as hard as we could to hear our music the way it was made.  We were exposed to it and realized that language is language, and it's really just all about the music and the message, which our parents and their parents didn't understand.  They didn't get that all language has its place in art and that hearing profanity doesn't make you grow up to be a criminal or send you to hell.  No child that grew up to be a hoodlum would have been saved by a "clean" album- they are products of their environment and values.

Once they're gone, you have Gen. Yers who have been the ones all along who saw the uselessness in trying to censor art. You have to go further back than Gen X for music censorship (especially as it relates to "clean" albums).  Tipper Gore (yes, Al's wife) is a good place to start.  It goes back farther than that, though - Jim Morrison was arrested in Florida for dropping an F-bomb on stage, after all, and the audience for that is firmly in the Boomer's camp.

It's almost like there are assholes that want to dictate what's "good taste" in every generation.  The current generation will fix it all, though, right? (said every generation ever) Morrison was arrested for *allegedly* exposing himself, any charges for dropping F-Boombs were incidental to that. http://www.rollingstone.com/music/news/jim-morrison-s-indecency-arrest-rolling-stone-s-original-coverage-20101210

Besides, it wasn't the audience who was complaining, it was the audience's parents. The problem is not that there are moralists in every generation, it is that as every generation grows up, they forget what it was like when they were young and they suddenly decide they need to protect the children. I dunno, I feel like each generation since the boomers has gone through a "fuck censorship" phase (listen to "The Fish Chant" if you don't believe me), but they all inexplicably grow out of it by the time they have kids and don't want their children "exposed" to the same stuff they actively participated in. Is there any reason Gen Yers would be different? If you've ever dj'd on the radio you've learned to love clean edits. I actually contacted Spotify about this via Twitter and they said it all depends on what versions are supplied to them by the artists. Same goes for mixtapes etc etc. 

EDIT: Okay let me clarify since everyone is giving me crap. I was merely saying I contacted Spotify as to why they don't have both the explicit and edited versions of albums and that was what they said. Just adding some pertinent info. This wouldn't effect the ability to implement this feature at all spotify can't possibly hire people to listen to every song to label them all by themselves, so it would require the labels to properly label the versions as such They'd only have to listen to one song out of each album, and only on ones they are supplied with two versions of, and only for long enough to find the first difference.

Also they could detect where they've been supplied with "title" and "title (explicit)" and label the non-(explicit) one as the clean version. The only ambiguity is on "radio edit" versions where sometimes this just means an instrumental or rap section has been cut for time rather than being 'clean'. this is a lot of money and an overly complicated solution to something that is a relatively low-priority problem. Mturk could solve it cheaply.  If Spotify had a setting to not show or play any covers, that'll be great.  And the metric shit ton of talentless hacks trying to sneak in plays by doing shady has to go.  It's become like YouTube with the rehosted shit for pennies. A toggle would be fine, or just "show explicit" and "show clean" options. By default, both turned on, but most of us would probably choose to hide one or the other.  its kinda like when they put Eminem and Dr.Dre's Guilty Conscience (clean) music video on TV.  what's the point?! why does a clean version even exist if you can barely hear anything at all?! "girl I wanna *freak* you" Perfect. Now I can play it in my office without any complaints.  Not only should there be a "remove clean versions" option, but there should also be an option to remove "commentarys" and "live versions." Its like every time I want to listen to Gorillaz I have to skip 100 "Spotify Sessions" or whatever they are. Super annoying SIXTEEN IN THE *BLANK* AND ONE IN THE *BLANK* NATE DOGG IS ABOUT TO MAKE SOME BODIES TURN *BLANK*. I want a block artist button. Stop playing Justin Bieber on radio play. or how about stop playing songs on radio play I've hit disliked on just 3 songs ago. that would be a *great* start! Stop listening to similarly shitty music. Spotify's definition of "similar" is pretty broad Yup. I was listening to an instrumental album a month ago, and Spotify started playing Katy Perry as a "similar" artist. Not even close. This is the ONE thing that Pandora has going for it. The radio functions and discovery capabilities are waaayyy better. That's not how it works and Spotify is entirely to blame. Their song matching process is terrible. I've set up radio stations, like Basement Jaxx, and gotten very odd artists, like Skrillex. Spotify are just very bad at this and don't seem to be improving it. Rdio's radio options are much better, just a shame their overall product isn't as good as Spotify, in my opinion. Another feature that would be really nice (for me at least), is organizing playlists into folders, and renaming playlists that you follow!  listening to gangster rap and you think its an instrumental ...and the  reverse as well.  Yeah, having only clean versions to listen to while at work would be great.  Am I the only one that wants alphabetical ordering in my Playlist? What like alphabetize your playlists or the songs in a playlist? Cause you can totally put the songs in alphabetical order in a playlist. They also need to bring back the stars. Also Google Music, or whatever the fuck the name of the service I pay for is.  Why the fuck am I paying for censored music? I'm not listening to public radio. I don't want to listen to censored sh*t.  The default setting should be no clean versions of anything, requiring offended listeners to go to settings and switch on a "clean versions only" switch that simply exchanges original for cleaned versions of everything. 

Fuck censorship. I don't want that shit imposed on me by default.  the reverse is what i'd like - I like to have music going at work in the whole office with patients there.  doesnt fly if you have kids and curse words... They make special subscription radio stations for that. The music choices are pretty plain, but will be non-offensive to practically everyone. Then you should be paying for a service that legally allows you public broadcast/performance and not using Spotify. There is a suggested feature thread on the Spotify forums with a lot of support.  I think the idea of a toggle to always prefer clean versus always prefer original would be great.  It would be nice to use the same playlists at work or around kids by just toggling a switch. Also need to have the reverse of this for when your listening to music with people more sensitive to explicit versions nah fuck that Why? Why should you have one option, but not the other? Cause I keep it gangsta OP spittin straight fire tru truu OP is being edgy.  No, he's keepin' it gangsta Art shouldn't be censored. If you have to listen to an artist after they've been censored, you probably have no real interest in the artists intentions. Yeah, especially for when you're at work and listening to stuff. I work in a school office so I have to be double careful what I play. I have a dedicated playlist of worksafe songs but every now and then the censors did such a good job at blanking out a word that it catches me by surprise. I'm looking at you Passenger and your song, Holes.  Instead of "explicit or clean" it should be "as the artist intended it" or "edited" ~~How about... abolishing the sacrilege that is "clean" albums all together.~~ 

Edit: /u/drproximo changed my mind it's not sacrilege, it's consumer options. want to listen to the song on your headphones? buy/download the explicit version. want to listen to the song at a place of business where the general public will be exposed to it? the clean version is probably the more appropriate choice. don't give a shit about anyone else's feelings and think that it's okay/fun to piss off religious people and parents of young children? fuck you, and stay the fuck away from any job that allows you to do that.

it might be a "sacrilege" if the artists weren't able to record music with profanity in the first place, or if a major music service like iTunes only carried the clean version. but nobody's being oppressed, and consumers should be given that choice. That's actually a damn good point I haven't thought of. I retract my statement.  I guess that works if you view music as a consumer product. For people who like to view albums as pieces of art, clean versions of songs just ruin the artistic value of the song. 

For me the tagging shouldn't be "clean or explicit," it should be "real or edited."   consumer product or art... why can't it be both? someone makes art, then sells it to people, not a difficult concept. Pro Tip:  Look at the album art images,  the clean versions wont have the parental advisory label and the explicit ones will.  God yes FUCK TIPPER GORE goddam republicans.... As a European i enjoy this discussion... Fuck censorship all together. Man I hate sensitive people. I pay for Spotify because of the clean albums.  How the fuck can I play Snoop's Aint No Fun, in class if it isn't edited? I teach a martial arts class a handful of times a week and I used to play whatever I wanted, usually early-to-mid 90's hip-hop. A lot of it was dirty. Someone eventually complained to the guy who runs the gym and that's when I discovered Spotify had clean versions of so many great songs and records. So it's been great for me. As a music teacher that uses Spotify in my music appreciation classes, I agree 100%. 

I'd like to teach students about the music and have the defense of the FCC if admin/parents were to say something. There's so much to teach in the music, so can I please be able to play it instead of talk about it? Play it unedited, and realize that the kids say worse things when you're not around

Source: I was a high-schooler recently  I know what kids say, I also know what they listen to.  Its a matter of administration walking in as Too Short is detailing how he drown a young lady with the enormous volume of his ejaculate.  If its clean, kid get to listen to music the want to listen to and I have a defensible position of "The FCC says its ok for kids to listen to".  I also let students DJ my class as long as its clean and not demeaning to anybody, they can play whatever they like.   So the administration needs to realize those kids say worse things. 


The way TS drowns women in cum is art. You can't just put a black bar
 over Mona Lisa's face and still call it the Mona Lisa, could you? How is it you can call a song that's been torn apart by censorship the same song? 

(PSA for the idiots: Before anyone else gets worked up and take this as a fact, I'm OBVIOUSLY kidding. I understand why censorship in music exists, especially around uptight and unfunny people like school administrators.) &gt;The way TS drowns women in cum is art

That might be a liiiiittle bit of a stretch He's not really wrong, but I definitely laughed. [deleted] It is my job to connect with kids and get them excited about being in my class.  When the old white guy plays old school hip hop and knows all of the words that are slightly salacious, it's a hook.  Some clean songs are better than the original which is ironic. 

Black Eyed Peas - Let's Get it Started vs Let's Get Retarded hooollly shit. Did not know this was the original. Hahahaha. I hope one day this comes up in a trivia game. This has got to be the biggest clean version hit.  I'm not a fan of them but it's much better than their original. No version of that song is any better than another. They're all garbage. I agree with that in some ways. Not always. My favorite is the clean album then the uncut versions of the handful of songs are in a separate album. This way you have to make a Playlist of the album to trade out the clean with dirty.  [deleted] Gangsta though Gangsta af it feels good to be a gangsta. A real gangsta --- --- plays his cards right I don't know if this is still the case, but last time I checked, there isn't an explicit version of blink-182's "Take Off Your Pants and Jacket" on Spotify. [You're in luck.](http://www.reddit.com/r/Blink182/comments/2v610u/spotify_some_good_news_the_explicit_versions_of/)

Now just...try not to cry :( Wow, 13 hours ago? That's awesome. Thanks for letting me know! No problem! Also, uh...if you haven't heard the news, I'd maybe try to stay away from the blink subreddit.

You'll find only darkness before you. I've heard, and I've been avoiding it... Wait, I thought blink-182 broke up years ago. What did I miss? They got back together in 2009 after Travis was in a plane crash, which landed him in the hospital with some pretty bad burns.

If you go check out the blink [subreddit](http://www.reddit.com/r/blink182), and scroll down a bit, you'll be able to read what's been going down the past week and a half or so.

Gist of it is pretty much, blink said they were going to work on a new album and kept pushing the date back. About a week and a half ago a show that Travis is a major part of announced a member of Alkaline Trio (Matt Skiba) would be playing with blink. This led to talks of there being a potential 4th member in blink, and then to rumors of Tom leaving the band.

Tom makes a post saying everything with the band is fine, he didn't leave, and he was on the phone doing blink related stuff. Mark and Travis release a Rolling Stone article calling Tom out, and tell their side of the story of why the album was delayed and whatnot.

Tom makes a Facebook post with part of his side of the story, and mentions that he didn't quit the band, he just was finding it hard to commit right now.

TL;DR - 

* Show announced with new guitarist.
* Rumors of Tom leaving blink.
* Tom says he isn't out of blink.
* Mark and Travis release article saying he's out.
* Tom explains.
* Future of blink unknown. Most likely done, but Mark and Travis may continue, pending rights of ownership and royalty mumbo jumbo. Or, Tom reconciles and recommits to blink (Mark was asked if he would let him, seemed like he wouldn't deny a motivated Tom), and we get new music in a few months.

** Also, Tom is saying that on March 1st, he'll be releasing some music. Most likely blink material. They should also have an equalizer but we can't all get what we want Especially when the unedited version isn't even on the artist's page and you have to specifically search for that album to find the unedited version.  Spotify radio is the worst, bc you can't choose the songs, then you waste your skips because radio edits blow big floppy donkey dicks 'waste your skips'? i use spotify radio all the time and i never heard of that Unless you're on premium, there are a finite number of skips Go for premium.  Rdio beats Spotify on this count for sure.  I completely agree. I'm paying a subscription for their service. I'm grown as fuck. I don't need the clean version to ANYTHING.  When I first signed up for Spotify, I was livid upon searching for songs/albums and only being presented with "clean" versions. I took to twitter to complain to Spotify and tell them they need to add the setting OP is referring to. 
They responded with a 2 part tweet: ": Sorry to hear that, Mason. Where possible we have both censored and uncensored versions available but we don't..." 
"2: always get given both by the label/distributor unfortunately. Anything specific you had in mind? /A" 

I gave up spotify upon changing jobs/drop in income, so am no longer dealing with the annoyance, but if they added the option, it would certainly entice me into rejoining.  If I bring my kid to the art museum downtown,  there will be no censors on the naked paintings. So why are there censors on the music?  Image is weaker than sound?  Remember when everyone hated vevo because it had ads.. good times What's an ad? Those things people start to believe they somehow need to watch because they owe it to the servers. I don't know if it's true, haven't seen any myself. Well, you don't owe it to the companies the ads are for, but it's an argument to be made about you owing it to the creators of the content you're trying to access.

Not trying to be all high-horsey here (I use and abuse Adblock myself) ... but the internet's one weird market, and your ad-watching is what pays for a lot of the otherwise free youtube videos &amp; c. Using Adblock direclty denies the creators the income (however miniscule) from your view/read/listen/smell. And the service hosting the content. And without enough revenue, that service will someday fade away.  Or charge a subscription, or both (see Hulu). Both at once is kinda scummy imo. Subscription should be the alternative to ads. Double dipping is greedy... but they still get customers so what do I know? It's what cable TV has always done, but I don't watch that anymore because it's awful. cable tv didnt really do that. you pay to get access to cable channels and the channels themelves throw the ads in there for profit. Exactly why I've never gotten Hulu Plus The internet isn't that weird in that aspect. Look at newspapers, free magazines, radio, local television...all paid for by ads. I don't get why everyone gets their fucking panties in a bunch when its suddenly done on the internet.

People just dont realize many of these sites wouldn't even exist without ads. Either that or they would have to pay $9.99 a month for YouTube. I'll gladly deal with ads rather than paying money. My time isn't *that* important. 

Hulu on the other hand, fuck that shit.

Edit: autocorrect  Your time might not be that important to you, but I need to watch this salsa-dancing dog right fucking now, not five seconds from now Well for starters the newspapers don't individualize their ads. No, AdSense, I don't need car insurance, I was just curious about prices. &gt; Hulu on the other hand, fuck that shit.

Hulu *Plus* serving ads is bullshit (just like cable TV serving ads is bullshit). I'm fine with seeing a reasonable amount of ads on a free service (like OTA TV and Hulu) as long as they aren't too annoying. &gt; The internet isn't that weird in that aspect. Look at newspapers, free magazines, radio, local television...all paid for by ads. I don't get why everyone gets their fucking panties in a bunch when its suddenly done on the internet.

When I'm reading through a magazine I don't get forced to watch a 30 second ad.  Ok, what about radio and television then? Hence I no longer watch TV or listen to radio, but that's just me, I understand completely why some people need / like radio or TV. Everyone chooses their own medium. Pop up ads with loud sounds or high def ad plus low def videos on the other hand really bothers me. you are not alone this is 2015 there is no reason to watch tv its just a terrible bad internet with no options. &gt; I don't get why everyone gets their fucking panties in a bunch when its suddenly done on the internet.

Because the ad companies on the internet are extremely intrusive and don't give a shit about invading your privacy for a few pennies. If they had any shred of ethics whatsoever, then sure, we could have that discussion, but they've abused their position for years and don't deserve any compromise. 

I use AdBlock, Privacy Badger, and an ad-blocking hosts file on my computers and phone and nobody gets any exceptions.  My problem with Hulu is that it shows the same three ads, over and fucking over.  It drills some stupid goddamn jingle or cheerful laundry mom bullshit straight through your eardrum into your brain.

Whenever I'm on a hulu binge with the wife we always RAGE the 8th or 9th time an ad comes on and make each other swear up and down that we will never buy the product ever out of spite.

I don't mind advertisements but watching a laundry detergent commercial fifteen times in a day is basically chinese water torture for the sake of commercialism.  MTV used to be even worse, they would show the same ad twice, or three times, in a row on a single commercial break! Which is why paywalls are becoming a thing. Exactly. I've never used adblock - I once owned a YouTube channel with ads and I wouldn't have liked it if everyone used it. Heck sometimes I click on ads on purpose just to give someone the odd bit of revenue.

It's strange how you can give to charity without actually spending a dime. And then there are sites who abuse ads "hulu" for example, or articles who have the need to put 10 pages when the content would've fit into a couple at most. Though I disable adblock for artists that I follow and respect.  You can now use ABP, it only filters extremely annoying ads and leaves ads which are compliant with their standards on. On the other hand, companies can pay 30% of their ad revenue to have ABP not block their ads by default. Sounds like extortion. Sounds hilarious. Or you know, everyone is a [shakedown artist](http://www.businessinsider.com/google-microsoft-amazon-taboola-pay-adblock-plus-to-stop-blocking-their-ads-2015-2) Here is the irony.

If you go through and randomly click on ads, they might flag the Content Creator's account as abusing the system, and they get blocked from showing ads at all. Happened to me a few years back, had a blog about videogames programming and made the unbelievable amount of 0.5-1.5 euro a day, one morning I check the amount and I found I've got something like 75 euro in ONE night, there must be an error, refresh-&gt; account banned.
Tried to contact google 2-3 times telling them they just had to check the FUCKING REVENUE of that night to see that something fishy had happened.
Answer: f. u. Sidenote: I apologize if I've ever caused this, but I do it rarely (and will only ever be one ad at a time). Rest easy man, a click here and there isn't a problem (I actually do the same you do, click an ad on sites I like), what happened to me is probably what /u/kinyutaka said, webspiders.
It's how google treaded me that still burn.
"oh, you've been running our ads for 4 month without EVER receiving a dime, now something happened and we have an excuse to  send you your merry way AND keep all the money you gained in those months, what a nice day...oh, and remember, f. u." Hence why no one feels bad about using Adblock. Yep.  I was close to using google for my ad platform but I found their customer service sucked and they run like a Kafkaesque monopoly now... Even better is the fact that webspiders work by loading the page and clicking on every link, so they can justify banning anyone they want if a nonstandard search engine crawls your account.

But that is delving into paranoia.  They don't actually have to justify banning you at all. Most services like YouTube have user agreements that people have to agree to before use that ensures the user has no real power. Their house, their rules. It's not like they're a union employer that has to give cause for termination. They can just say "our system detected risk here" and terminate the account without a second glance if they want. And what better risk that "we nearly had to send a check". Why would you not want to support an artist you like?

Just turn off adblock for reddit, or websites with un-obtrusive ads, or leave pandora on for a day or something. adblock is a helll of a thing on pandora.... Google is ads I hate vevo because of unnecessary censorship.

I can either watch the VEVO OFFICIAL CHANNEL of an artist, and hear everything from the word "rob" and "blunt" bleeped out, or I can listen to an illegitimate copy from someone on youtube.

Guess which one I pick?

Copyright hurts EVERYONE. My favorite is how if the song says "goddamn", they bleep the "God" part. This is especially funny when it's shouted one word at a time in Fall Out Boy's "This Ain't A Scene, It's An Arms Race" I chime in with "haven't you people ever heard of closing a ___ damn door?" That's how the radios played it for years too! I used to think that it was supposed to be the side effect of some weird nervous tick, haha I remember a Rhianna song they bleeped out "whips" and "chains" on the radio &gt;Sticks and stones may break my bones but __ and ___ excite me  

Lesson learned kids, if you want her horny, hit her with a rock. &gt;Sticks and stones may break my bones, butt, and excite me Still the most egregious to me was when MTV still aired music videos and censored the word "shirt" and "pay" in My Chemical Romance's "Teenagers"... 

The line still stood as "But if you're troubled and hurt, you've got under your ____ will make them ___ for the things that they did"... No, no way people will understand what they're talking about now that you took out those critical words. Nope, not at all.
 According to FCC rules, "damn" is actually perfectly acceptable. But when it becomes "goddamn" it becomes way too offensive to be allowed. I'm a writer. It doesn't hurt me. It's what allows me to make a living. Yes. Copyright is very necessary in any civilized society, it's just heavily abused by well-monied factions. What does copyright have to do with censorship?  Well why not just ban YouTube on r/Music and use sites like dailymotion or whatever? Why not take a day (or longer) and boycott google? Welcome to China And that's why expats have VPNs (which are now about to get completely banned... we're screwed).  Tor with a meek bridge. Hard to block when your traffic looks like it's going to Amazon or Google.  [deleted] I'm using duckduckgo, These minor search engines Need more Support anyways It's about more than search engines. But DDG is a good start. Vimeo works pretty damn well, and has videos better than YouTube. Seems to be fairer to content providers as well. YouTube fucks people because it can.  You pay to put your stuff on vimeo, it's for hosting portfolios and embedding videos on websites. You can't make money off it unless you source your own ads. It's so sad what youtube has become.  I remember when it was the best place to put things.

gg google you were the chosen one 2007/2008 tat year Let the bodies hit the floor.....  Oh, man, what a time... Back when the only time video was removed was only by the author...


Or those arab drift videos... Ohh 7th grade.... Good times.  Tat year? but yeah I  loved YouTube circa 2006-2008 Youtube used to be about the "You" but not anymore. Now they are almost exclusively featuring big money making channels on their first page and suggestions. Ebay is doing the same btw., they are systematicallly killing off the small sellers.
This was planned a long time ago and the only reason they didn`t go fully commercial earlier is, they waited for it to become indispensable from peoples lives and blend in the obviousely commercial aspects slowly to avoid people leaving and looking for alternatives. I had a miserable experience on Ebay recently; got screwed over by a seller--but can't leave negative feedback. Seller's going to screw over other people, but Ebay will make money on that. Google does great things, but my god is it bad at social networking Google is severely autistic. They're not necessarily bad.  Social Networking just has a huge amount of inertia to overcome.  No one wanted to move their profiles from Myspace but when the site sucked so hard and Facebook was better it was worth the jump.  Google wasn't enough of an improvement over Facebook so no one bothered. From my point of view you are evil   I don't like ads. It's coarse and irritating and they get everywhere. But you, you are not an ad. And that is why I love you! Then you are lost! This is the end for you, my master. What happened to Google and their motto "do no evil"? 1 - They became publicly traded.
2 - Eric Schmidt started thinking he was a god. Yup, any company that is run by shareholders forfeit all morals and will do anything for that next quarter report, no exceptions, all publicly traded companies are evil. Yup. See: the Verizon CEO that was canned when he wanted to blanket the US with FIOS. Sad, that guy had a great vision for the long con and was fired because quarterly profits were more important. 

Verizon could have literally owned all high speed internet and google fiber would have never been needed and Comcast would be a cute afterthought.  Which CEO was that? My google fu appears to be weak today Seidenberg. I have had this article bookmarked for over a decade: https://www.techdirt.com/articles/20030725/1524210.shtml Thanks! The age is probably why I couldn't find it. *Your* age?       
Don't worry. It happens.  Which is why I can't get FiOS where I live, but it's available one street over, in the middle of an urban area.  Not that that stops Verizon from sending me constant FiOS ads in the mail. Is that why they are making self driving cars? Providing free internet around it's HQ in NY? Providing free internet via balloons? Working to make devices as cheap as possible for poor markets so they can participate? Pushing for higher speed internet where they can? Giving money to SpaceX to provide free internet from space?

You've lost it. You do realise the only real distinction between public and private companies is the number of people who hold the stock right? 

How exactly does having more owners make a company inherently "evil"? those who claim "we are not evil" are often the worst I think the Khmer Rouge had the same motto. When you actually have to say it... That slogan died together with the culture that spawned it. The old web and usenet culture.
 Google is a company, not a person. It is going to be run by different people at different points in time, and they'll all have their own way of doing things. I don't understand the blinded affection people around here have for Google.  Google is actually run in a very compartmentalized manner. Based on the principle of "need to know" style management. Google is like a bunch of little companies all under one big umbrella. On one hand you have this hip and friendly company with all these super smart geeks working on neat technologies. On the other hand you have some seriously shady shit going on in the bowels. Some of which was exposed in events like the Stratfor hack/dump, Wikileaks and Snowden leaks.  An umbrella corporation you say.....confirmed, google to bring zombie apocalypse.  Remember "for the greater good"? Those who claim not to be evil are often the worst offenders &gt;.&gt; It died with Google Labs and Reader Well that's messed up, but not surprising, especially given the leverage youtube has. It's never surprising when a big corporation acts like a dick. It's sad that we've grown so used to their behavior that it doesn't even phase most people. I look like an idiot if I complain about the bi-monthly layout change youtube insists on implementing. Hell the Watch History didn't work for months and was only fixed in the recent weeks. &gt;Hell the Watch History didn't work for months and was only fixed in the recent weeks.

Oh hey, I thought that only affected me for the longest time! I feel like the UI changes are getting sloppier with every new major update. Google/YouTube's just offloading their testing onto us now. Seriously. I use a ton of Google services and YouTube is the one that is always shitty.  It really feels like Google just let their entire UI knowledge get erased. Everything's becoming so insanely clunky and full of these annoying pop-up tips. It's becoming a real hassle to use any google web based products outside of searches. The whole concept if it's not broke don't fix it is entirely lost on a quite a few "big" websites. Ebay really annoyed me with their new layouts.  God, shopping on eBay used to be so sweet and simple. They do it to force you to stay on the site longer.  I've worked for a few big companies that have done this over and over again, some have been great and other have been a pain in the ass. When they have been rolling these things out and you try to explain to them the issues, they don't want to hear it, you are wrong and so is the customer because the company knows best. There are some changes that have caused so many issues that the features never get used and are dropped later down the line all because some 50-60 year old 'somebody' knows better.

Oh and anyone reading this that live in the UK/Ireland and has sky, they are monitoring everything about you so they can sell you ad time to specific companies to try and make you buy there products more. Ebay has started the process of becoming more like Amazon a long time ago. Ebay really hates private sellers and small ebay shops because of the disputes and all the legal problems that come with it.
It`s ironic that that`s excactly what made made them big in the first place. Did you see how they changed "turn off annotations" over time? At first it was just one button you could click. Annotations off. Then you had to click to open up the little settings menu, then click off. Then they made that box bigger so you had to move your curser further to click off (small change makes a big difference) and on top of that, the subtitles option within that settings box needs to load so you'll go to click off but then it moves as the subtitles load up. THEN as of the other day they swapped the off and on buttons... It's fucking ridiculous. So it was ON/OFF, now it's OFF/ON.. Fuck em Oh you better fucking believe I saw that they swapped the ON/OFF buttons for annotations! 

It's like I'm playing a fucking game with this kind of bull shit. It was muscle memory to click the right side of those 2 buttons, now I'm training myself to click the left, I bet that switches again.

Again though, you say these things to anyone IRL and you look like the biggest basement dweller that ever lived. I'm glad some can relate to this frustration with me! If you go to your [playback settings](https://www.youtube.com/account_playback) page there's a checkbox to automatically turn off annotations for every video. Seems to be tied to your browser rather than account for some stupid reason but it's worlds better than having to turn them off every time you open a video. Well that's miracle, thank you! Now if I could just have an option to "Automatically play highest available resolution" I'd be a happy camper for a little while. For that there's always [Magic Actions](https://chrome.google.com/webstore/detail/magic-actions-for-youtube/abjcfabbhafbcdfjoecdgepllmpfceif?hl=en) or [YouTube Center](https://github.com/YePpHa/YouTubeCenter/releases). The latter I've found can run slowly if you have a lot of tabs open (but it's got an excellent array of features), and I haven't tried the former because I use Firefox, but people say a lot of good things about it. *faze Actually, what's worse is that people still buy the Google  "Do no evil" slogan... wait, do they even bother with that slogan anymore?

Honestly, it seems a company starts out with good intentions. THey are going to be the good company that everyone likes. Eventually they realize they gotta make more money and it's hard to do that and be the good company. They make little compromises (it's not so bad). Eventually, they find themselves the same type company that they originally wanted to avoid (hell, the people in it may be different and no longer care about what the original people wanted). Maybe we need a new YouTube. This one seems broken.  [Gnu Mediagoblin.](http://mediagoblin.org/) Run your own, only better. That looks incredibly interesting. I'm going to read up on that now.

Seems to be a p2p adapting/magnet-link esque media share "site"? Maybe a little less Google+ next time.  Maybe a little less Google anything. Eh. I don't have a problem with Google as a whole, but their whole, "We're going to institute shitty changes that nobody actually enjoys but won't listen to anyone so you'll just have to suck it up and deal with it" thing is obnoxious.  So google in general?  ...Touche`. So how come you don't "have a problem with Google as a whole"? Vimeo :) Vimeo will never be YouTube because of their quality control policies. No gaming, no vlogs, no "social" videos, no prank videos, no dashcam videos, no funny cat home videos filmed in vertical mode. 

Most of those things are things I'm not interested in and some even sound great in theory (no vertical mode) but some of the best videos on YouTube weren't filmed by a filmmaker.

Unless they loosen up on the quality control, they will continue being a hub for purely art media, which in my opinion, is how Vimeo should stay.  Oh don't worry, anything that gets popular enough will get obliterated by copyright groups and either stop existing, end up like current Youtube or worse. So we keep moving to the next best thing. Let's not pretend that this isn't how it's always been. Well, the issue is that there was no such platform before. There are many fully professional channels on Youtube now. It's extremely hard to move such channel anywhere else. Or competition between several won't allow the monopoly of assery that YouTube has now because it can.  There will be something new eventually but once they grow like youtube, it`s gonna be the same excact story all over again. Money, money, money... Ughhhh. The internet is just dull big business these days. Youtube just used to be a video upload service for creative amateurs to share content. Now it's all about advertising, contracts, marketing, all that bullshit and it's lost sight of its "roots". There's a spectrum for corporations. The young corporation that proclaims "do no evil!" and the old corporation strangled by their stockholder that will murder babies. 

Remember when they were at the do no evil stage? So cute. Not so cute now that they're three steps away from Phillip Morris. 

Artist exploitation, invasive ads, removing vital features from devices (you're android devices that you bought over Apple because they had MicroSD support no longer support writing to the MicroSD card!). Everything they said they were against they're doing! 

And it's only going to get worse as they gain more power and break into new markets. Everyone's excited because Google is getting into the ISP game, but it's not old benevolent Google that's doing it. They'll do the same as Comcast when the shareholders realize they have the opportunity.  Not surprised because we gave youtube to much control over our media. The music industry has always been kinda shady and shitty. Every industry is like this. We were stupid to think Google wouldn't be the same way. And it's only going to get worse.  This is depressing.  We keep squeezing and squeezing artists out of work, and then we complain that pop-culture is shit.  How are artists - working in any medium - supposed to make a living?  I'm oversimplifying the matter, but I feel like that's what's at the heart of it. I suppose Pop is easier to control with money. Clothing ads, movies, soundtracks, product placement, tweets, pop seems easier to control, influence and propogate with enough money/media.

Not saying that doesn't fucking suck and I hope it stops though. Unfortunately it won't stop until it halts being lucrative.

You can help in a very small way by patronizing local venues and supporting local musicians. Make it the cool thing by doing it. I agree, but even the popstars of previous generations had some talent and some say in their careers.  Now it seems most are popstars by committee.  I'm trying to say that even the popstars/pop-culture is getting choked by executives. Does Motown mean anything to you? Modern pop may not be as appealing to you, but it's the same structure.  Pop music is manufactured just like most other consumer products. It's all about marketing/branding. 

The days of new/original music being played on the radio (or other mainstream media outlet) has died long ago. (probably around the time 'boy bands' were introduced?) this should be top. Every comment here is about how bad Youtube is, or how shitty their players have become. But this company is litterally trying to control this artist's material. This is why the music industry is dying. Pandora, Spotify, iTunes, Youtube, etc. They are all basically taking a massive percentage of income from the artists to pack their ceo's pockets even more. Artists are not supposed to make a living. 

Source: Lifelong musician. used to get paid to do it. now i have to pay to do it. We need to break this illusion of independant corporations and start naming them by the major entity that owns them.

This isn't YOUTUBE. it's GOOGLE.  Agreed, we need that first and foremost.

If Xbox starts ripping people off/revoking digital media, the headline should read "Microsoft".

Hit them right in the public image and share values, where it actually hurts. Damn right. Surprise people. Not even Google is your friend. Most of the new music I have come to like in the last five years have been reddit referrals to youtube and most of them have been independents. The rest were things I stumbled across on YouTube. I hate to think of losing the ability to stumble across greats things from independent artists on youtube. But I think that's about to happen. YouTube needs some competitors. I used to log on to Myspace late at night, put on my headphones, listen to new music and follow the suggestions for hours. Things always change, and I can't even remember who I had as my top 8 friends. As impossible as it seems for it to not be Youtube, there will be a next. eventually.  I wish more people used Vimeo. I love product they put out and am on there constantly to watch wakeskating videos. It's just a better place to watch videos because the quality is higher and there are less asshole members/commenters. If more people started using Vimeo, you'd see a lot more "asshole members/commenters".

Your wish is a paradox. Any popular social interaction-service on the internet will sooner or later be flooded with idiots and trolls. The thing is, don't have comments ON vimeo, but a comments section linked to forums based on video contents so there's a different login that makes it less likely that teenagers prone to trolling on their videogame boards will be on music ones.
 
The idea that one ID universally is all one needs allows for a lot of shit posting to happen. Time to atomize comments to boards or artists again so the one kid 'peeing in the pool' doesn't make it nasty for everyone else. It's like the betamax of tube sites! Doesn't vimeo not use ads?

That'd be a deal breaker for most serious content producers Perhaps, but musicians have to see past adverts I think. 

We found a song on Vimeo that we loved, we ended up going to see his gig at a festival and buying his two EPs when they were released. He made much more from us than an advert would have made. 

If the music is good enough, people will pay. 

Edit: Here's the vid http://vimeo.com/57444237 The problem is that you are the exception not the rule, not everyone who see's a music video is going to go out and buy an album, not even a large percentage of the people who enjoy it. But why wouldn't the artist want both?  Its not like a lack of ads is going to cause people to go to a concert.  Vimeo doesn't censor as harshly either. Bloody Lovely Audrey puts their more raunchy music videos on there. Only reason I don't use Vimeo is because it doesn't have a 240p option. I kinda need that with my crappy internet. :( that made me sad I think the major roadblock for most people is the Vimeo charges to host videos in general, and (I think) charges to have more than a specific amount available to viewers. 

Maybe they may be able to get around that by having their own sponsors and putting them in their own videos, but I'm not sure if that's a better deal for consumers as being able to skip ads 5 seconds in with most (all?) people not having ads in their music videos. 

I agree that YouTube needs real competition, but I disagree that Vimeo is a good/legitimate alternative.  So, media corporations don't have to pay the artist to use her music for their own profit, and they can even stop her from earning money herself, and even distributing her own music. No contract, no agreement, no consent needed. But if *I*, in the privacy of my own home, decide to listen to her music without paying the corporation, then *I* am the criminal, and *I* am the immoral sonofabitch who takes the bread out of the artists mouth. One has to question the mentality of a company doing questionable things and trying to force journalists to cover it up.

"Yeah you figured out we're being evil but plz don't tell anyone kthx" I wish we had some way of making journalists rewarded for taking risks and pushing the envelope while remaining objective.

Could it be that crowd-sourcing is the way to go for many things these days? I mean, if we all paid a very small amount to support a journalist, and if word got out that they were shilling, we could all revoke their salary quickly.

And the ones that are altruistic would be rewarded without having to worry about being "dropped" from corporate meddling.  This is why independent contractors like musicians need to join guilds and unions so they have more say in their contract negotiations.  The real crux of this situation is she has little to no alternative and she is unwilling to just pull all of her music from youtube.  I wonder how the youtube rep would have responded if she said that she was going to remove her content from youtube and put up a DMCA for any music of hers youtube did to to publish and take all of her work over to VEVO or something. I don't understand why artists and musicians take such a hit now in modern times, particularly in the realm of the digital music industry. 

It adds a lot more pressure on the artists who are already under a lot of scrutiny from countless factors, let alone being a prisoner of their own minds. 

I dream of a day where artists and musicians are respected and viewed as a resource from the companies who are being made by the very same people they're taking advantage of.  Because everyone look down on creative work as "hobbies" and value it accordingly. It's because YouTube  (Google) owns a near monopoly and is not an altruistic company. They are cunts because they can be and seek to crush competitors and those who don't fall into line.  If we had, in our respective cultures, *real* respect for the cultural arts, Google wouldn't even have come up with the idea that is their current system.   
You're right in this particular case but the reasons behind Google acting like this must be rooted deeper than just "being cunts" and padding their profits. Nope. It's all about profit and growth. Google is publicly traded and therefore, the only thing they will seek is show growth on the next quarterly. Because big copyright holders want to eliminate them. The idea that an independent musician can actually go big and make a lot of money is completely contradictory to their entire business model. Call me naive, but I 100% believe that this isn't something Google does on his own initiative. Definitely no, looks too similar to the old tactics aplied by the old music industry.

Why would they make any agreement with one of his biggest PITA for free? It's because any product where the marginal cost to reproduce is $0 is being hit hard. Artists will adapt and sell different products. But asking for more money for digital items is a losing proposition.

Personally, I think we should go back to patronage for artists, but now with crowdfunding it should be possible and equitable. Any idea how this affects smaller, just starting out indie artists? I was going to throw a couple of my songs up on YouTube but now I'm starting to think Soundcloud is pretty much my only option. Large corporations act like bullies in capitalist systems.

It is a feature.   They argue for regulation until they can afford not to argue.  They whistleblow until they are one of the one's offending from tip to tail.

Break.

Up.

Google. Can someone highlight what youtube is doing wrong here?  I might have just missed it.....It looks like it's proposing a contract that she doesn't like.  so?   Why isn't this a case of "if you don't like the contract then don't sign it and don't use youtube!"  It's not like youtube is morally obligated to help everyone monetize their stuff for free right? 

I mean, everyone seems pretty up-in-arms over this, so I probably just misunderstood the article, why do I need my pitchfork here? The problem for many like this "unkown" artist is that they are telling her that they will upload her music that she has had on their for years even if she doesn't sign the contract and thus they continue to make money off her music with hits.  Then they bar her from using her own youtube videos that she created anywhere else.  Personally I would get a lawyer on this issue.  Because if she refuses to go the contract route and wants her music pulled off youtube she could do it.  Hopefully she was a smart artist and copyrighted her material. Youtube is owned by Google and I thought they had a do-no-evil policy or something
huh Big Companies, especially those with multiple different parts / teams / divisions, and even more so when just one Company in a much larger Corporation structure of several giant Companies. 

Sometimes have policies or people that most others in the company wouldn't agree with. 

Hell, I am Operations Manager for a very small company, and I wouldn't let half my staff deal directly with clients and a few of them I am sure would enforce rules / policies that I would completely disagree with.  Yeah, but the CEO of YouTube was I believe the first person brought in by Page and Brin when they were starting Google. She's about as much of a founder of the company as you can be. Youtube has been the barometer for how much the internet has changed for me.  Youtube in itself was a great service for users, then it gets taken over by some moguls that try and make it more than it needs to be because they want to get rich off it.   Google you've changed. amazon prime for books does the same thing When exactly did Google go all evil? Google, from "don't be evil" to "let's build military robots and prevent art distribution" terrible. Soundcloud maybe? Soundcloud is even worse - now they force shit music to your feed from artists that pay a bribe fee. 

Bandcamp is still good. Tsk, tsk. I'm turning on adblock and ghostery for youtube.  Is of just me, or does it sound like the entertainment industry is trying to get back to the good Ol' days when they owned every aspect of their artists and could ruin them with the snap of a finger if they refused to comply? Now I know and everybody here should know that this has not happened because of the traditional bullying that comes from record labels and big corporations.  It has happened to Zoe because Google are taking a nasty advantage of the unenforceability of copyright law.

By threatening to cut her off from Content ID, she would have to take the route of DMCAing videos she disapproved of, a proven failure (not that Content ID is any better at stopping piracy, to be honest).  Knowing this, Google now realise they call the shots about the monetisation of that system even to the point where they've made war on websites that don't depend on copyright to function such as Kickstarter and Patreon.  Kickstarter surely must have raised an eyebrow at Google's explicit demands of not having music released there.  If those websites were chosen as the platform to make money first and foremost, and not this goose chase of copyright, Google would not have been in a position to exploit like this.

I was also reminded of the way in which Amazon started to screw over independent authors because authors insisted it had to have Digital Rights Management on Kindle.  Now Amazon calls the shots as a result, because it holds the gates to that Digital Rights Management.  Artists don't learn that copyright is the enemy. Just another bully corporation who gets popular and then tries to bully people into using their services. The headline is bogus, Google "*contacts journalists and tries to force them to change headlines about this issue*", did they read their own article? Their example was of google contacting press, discussing the details, &amp; asking them to change their headlines... what an evil corporation! ^[*Re-worded] 

Rather than repeating the sympathy plight of the lonely musician, why don't they post the details of the proposed contract? The article didn't mention anything that was terrible from what I read, they said they wanted her to release her new songs on their service when they come out and that this would be a 5 year contract, oh the suffering? Or they would remove her ability to selectively monetize her recordings, which sounds to me like they are saying she would lose her special right to use their ContentID service.

If I am wrong then please say so, what have i misunderstood? Regardless of the facts, this article is clickbait and bias reporting at its best. Youtube is extremely popular and it's ability to control music content is concerning, but that doesn't make them evil in itself and they are far from being a monopoly in either streaming services or the music content industry.  This is downright terrifying, and should open a lot of discussion So if she doesn't sign the contract, her songs are used anyway? 

Can't she just say no and then sue youtube for copyright infringement? (if she can't already sue youtube for blackmailing, that is)  You mean Google, since they own Youtube. Don't be evil... I understand the frustration with this and that it is totally bullying and wrong, but why does most of Reddit care? I see all this love for things like Pirate Bay and the like...

The Tyranny of Free is adorable and I agree it is tyrannical, but I can't seem to understand why most of Reddit cares. Free music and Free movies is what they view as okay. 

As someone who creates a form of art, I don't think it's okay. It's like taking a car for a while and then deciding that oh, well, maybe I'll pay for the the front tires and then the trunk and some of the engine. That ought to relieve some of my guilt for taking the entire car. 

AND I don't understand why YouTube is doing this. It's best to have the better user friendly service, because otherwise someone's going to race up and overtake your throne. You can't have it forever if you act like this. I have wondered what would make YouTube fall and another video service to just take over...and it appears it just might be something as simple as being polite and respectful of people's work.  Fuck youtube! I'm getting sick of all these companies who treat the customer like they are their bitch. I deleted 146 videos I had on there because I got tired of them constantly harassing me to use my real name on my account. The quality of my life hasn't dropped in any way now that I'm free of their so called "service". Try to remove the YouTube app form your phone... Google tried this shit with me.

First response from my lawyer :"Oh, you wish to usurp our copyrights with your contract? We can accept it, then take it straight to court, we don't have a problem with that."

Been left alone ever since - Google/YouTube knows what they're doing won't hold up in court. That's why this cover-up reaction from them is happening. This is getting REALLY close to RICO-status violation.

You people wonder why many browsers are changing their default search provider from Google to Yahoo - this is but one of MANY reasons why. How would this violate rico? i thought rico was a way for prosecutors to tie together crimes as one organization. These contracts already wouldn't hold up in court due to [unconcionability](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Unconscionability). Google is slowly bleeding rival content companies to death with their laissez faire half-ass approach to piracy... and quietly building Youtube into their own content giant.  Once they become the owners of the content themselves, I don't think it's a stretch to say that suddenly they will find a magic algorithm that controls piracy since it would now be Google's property instead of Sony's or Warner Brothers.  If they can't do that, they'll simply raise the price of Google Fiber since by then they will own the isp business as well.  You were warned... [Don't be evil](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Don%27t_be_evil) We've saw the signs...
We read the warnings...
It has begun... don't forget they know what you browse, what you view everyday on youtube; and probably what you shop for and your email...oh and...porn too When did googles company motto stop being "don't be evil"?  Google is evil beyond all imagination.  From what this article states, she's facing the possibility of losing "far less" than $324.00 a month from her views on Youtube. Just take your videos down, find another host and move on. WTF?  This is why I use Vimeo. WTF Google? But Google do no evil D: The problem here is Internet ad companies track your every step online. I'm not comfortable with that. I'm beginning to believe that Google was at some point owned by an evil entity that seeks to control us all...sort of like that picture about how [a few brands control a lot of the food industry] (http://mentalfloss.com/sites/default/files/food-brands-map.png)

Who knows? Maybe we're just part of a Civilization 10 game ._. Fucking Google... so, since its obvious now that young musicians should avoid youtube, which platforms remain to get noticed (except soundcloud) ? Bandcamp is a great site. Youtube is such a worthless shithole now. If you don't like your deal, then leave and find a new one.  Why should the entire burden be on the artist to find reasonable deals? Should the companies not be held to some standard of ethics in their business practices? So much for "Don't be evil."

WTF, Google? http://xkcd.com/792/ Is google really evil though?
 [Image](http://imgs.xkcd.com/comics/password_reuse.png)

**Title:** Password Reuse

**Title-text:** It'll be hilarious the first few times this happens.

[Comic Explanation](http://www.explainxkcd.com/wiki/index.php/792#Explanation)

**Stats:** This comic has been referenced 128 times, representing 0.2527% of referenced xkcds.

---
^[xkcd.com](http://www.xkcd.com) ^| ^[xkcdsub](http://www.reddit.com/r/xkcd/) ^| ^[Problems/Bugs?](http://www.reddit.com/r/xkcd_transcriber/) ^| ^[Statistics](http://xkcdref.info/statistics/) ^| ^[StopReplying](http://reddit.com/message/compose/?to=xkcd_transcriber&amp;subject=ignore%20me&amp;message=ignore%20me) ^| ^[Delete](http://reddit.com/message/compose/?to=xkcd_transcriber&amp;subject=delete&amp;message=delete%20t1_coc6eqj) Unfortunately Pandora would likely try to take a cut once more, probably a sizable one. If they instead hosted direct links to BandCamps/whatever other comparable hosting site that would allow 100% donations that would probably alleviate this.

obligatory gold edit: Thank you! I've never had gold before :3 Maybe, but it could work to their benefit not to.  They could win the support of struggling and emerging artists, who then offer Pandora a larger catalog of music/content, on which they can sell their advertising.  I think it could be a win/win for both of them.   &gt;  who then offer Pandora a larger catalog of music/content

If you record music in the United States you have absolutely no choice but to allow your music to be streamed via Pandora. It is required by US law that if you sell your music in physical or digital form that it be made available under statutory license rates to non-interactive digital distribution services.  Wait, what? Really? It's not specific to online streaming.  I think it's an old rule, designed for broadcast media like FM radio.

http://www.nolo.com/legal-encyclopedia/copyright-compulsory-license.html That's honestly very interesting to read.  That is not on point.

The compulsory license is in regard to *covers* of songs.

For example, if I want to make my own version of Katy Perry's "Firework", I pay a set fee based on the runtime and distribution, and I can do it, even if Katy hates my guts or doesn't want anyone using her signature song.

This does not describe the rights to play Katy Perry's version of the song on the radio.

Try http://copyright.gov/licensing/sec_112.html for the appropriate law. Source? http://www.nolo.com/legal-encyclopedia/copyright-compulsory-license.html Does anyone notice the irony of his user name and the above comment chain?

Edit: see comment below for followup on how this recursively becomes true irony Way too many people confuse coincidence with irony nowadays. Total cop out.  This may or may not be irony, but everything that coincides is coincidence.  At the very least, it could be described as "interesting" that /u/recursive had a recursive event in the above comment chains.  To call it coincidental does not adequately describe the situation.  Save this gem for a conversation about Alanis Morissette 20 years ago. How Ironic Does anyone notice the irony of his user name and the above comment chain? I didn't understand what you meant until I read [this entire comment thread](http://www.reddit.com/r/Music/comments/2vk4eu/pandora_should_have_a_tip_jar_for_bands/coijtc6). He should have linked his comment instead of the site again Isn't it ironic? That isn't irony. Ha! I discovered this a while back: googling "recursive"

http://www.reddit.com/r/funny/comments/2oxtgl/clever_google/ 

http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Royalties

Check out 'mechanical' copyright.


One reason perhaps America has such a thriving pop music scene is that radio stations don't have to be careful about licensing?

 At one point having a song play on the radio was considered advertising/promotion. Not having the stations pay the recording owner (mechanical license) was fine, since it usually worked its way out in having more sales. Radio stations still need to get a blanket license and keep track of what's played and in theory some of the money gets funneled back to the songwriter as a performance royalty.

Due to the way the laws were written, internet radio does not get the same privilege. Pandora and such have to pay both the songwriter (performance) and the recording owner (mechanical). Pandora has often complained about this disadvantage.

Both performance and mechanical are compulsory, so stations don't have to worry about tracking down and getting permission from every owner. However, they aren't completely free from thinking about licensing.

Compulsory licenses are also why cover bands can exist without constantly worrying about licensing.

Edit: Forgot to mention there is also a component of the performance royalty that goes to the recording owner, which Pandora has to pay and terrestrial does not. Definitely back when independent stations, and later, college radio were a thing. Not as much now with the duopoly, but I'm sure whatever local independent stations you have left appreciate it.  Didn't Taylor Swift just pull her music from Spotify?

You may be right, and I'm not sure that it has anything to do with the idea, but I thought I read that somewhere.  And it would seem to be at odds with what you're saying.

Again, I'm lazy, and you use words that imply a level of subject matter knowledge that I don't have. &gt; Didn't Taylor Swift just pull her music from Spotify?

Yes. Spotify is not covered under the statutory rate because you can select what song to play specifically. Pandora does not allow this and operates more as a traditional radio station except for being online thus falling under the statutory rules.  Thank you for the clarification.  Did not know that stuff Are you disappointed he didn't stick a happy tree into the statute? Your joke was really stupid but I liked it.  His joke was a happy accident  This is what I don't understand. If that's the case, then why don't all artists pull their music from Spotify? Not that I really want them to, because I have a Spotify subscription and listen to new releases all the time. Logically, it doesn't make sense why anyone (especially those strapped for cash) would pay for individual albums anymore -- considering Spotify typically has new releases posted the morning of release. If I'm paying $10 for a monthly Spotify subscription (actually $5 because of student discount), why would I buy Tetsuo &amp; Youth and B4.DA.$$, which dropped the same day, for a grand total of $22 when I can spend no more or less than I was with the Spotify subscription? Absolutely no incentive for me to do so unless I really want to support those artists (which I do on the rare occasion with albums as good as the ones mentioned).  Because they get a small cut of that $10, which is more than the cut they'd get if all those people pirated their music instead. With the Internet, people expect to have pretty much all data readily available, and if it isn't they'll find a way to get it. Artists would rather than happen through Spotify than Pirate Bay. You make a great point, one that's I've also considered.[ It actually led me to do a little research on the topic](http://www.spotifyartists.com/spotify-explained/). I understood that artists received royalties when their content is streamed, but I didn't understand how smaller artists (Joey Bada$$ included), can really profit from the system. An artist like Taylor Swift made $2 million in 2014. Impressive, yes, but her music was being streamed millions of times. 

I found that Spotify pays out 70% of revenue to the rights holders of a particular song or album. Taking into consideration that includes publishers, labels, and distributors as well. The amount the artist receives is based on market share (total artist streams / total spotify streams), which is a lot better than being paid per individual stream. I actually think this is a great way to combat pirating. Makes me feel better about using Spotify. "streamede millions of times" is pretty much a useless metric. Let's use a nice even number - 100,000,000 plays in a year.

If Taylor Swift has 1,000,000 fans (she's bound to have more), that just means that each of her fans has listened to ONE of her songs every 3.65 days. That is a very low play count for someone of her status in the music industry, yet the number of plays makes it sound like she's insanely popular.

100,000,000 plays is next to nothing in the scheme of things, because it's pretty much just 100,000,000 listens. If her video is played once on MTv, that's guaranteed to be millions of views on its own. If its played once on a large radio station, that's millions of listens as well.

If every radio station in the US played one of her songs just once, and that was only time any of her music was played on US radio, she'd probably rake in close to 100,000,000 listens on that one song alone.

But that's not how we tend to think about broadcasts. It played once, so that's just one listen, but Pandora/Spotify etc played her song 100,000,000 times, so they owe her a shit ton of money. To support the artists and encourage them to keep making music. They make less than a penny from you streaming their song - can't eat off that.  

I always buy the albums of bands I like, either throigh iTunes or physical media, then stream however I want, knowing I have at least given them a payday. For bands I love, I will often buy their vinyl or deluxe editions because I like the collection, but also because the band gets more cash. More cash == more votes for more music.
 &gt; Again, I'm lazy, and you use words that imply a level of subject matter knowledge that I don't have.

This disclaimer should be required on every reddit comment And those statutory rates get collected by SoundExchange and the vast majority of artists sees a fraction of a percent of it.  It's a great system for rightholders. &gt; And those statutory rates get collected by SoundExchange and the vast majority of artists sees a fraction of a percent of it.

Not exactly true. The artist, by US law, is required to receive 45% of the royalty, secondary artists (if present) on the track receive 5%, and the rights holder/master owner receives 50%. This is excluding the deduction for the overhead cost to SoundExchange.  Pandora isn't interested in expanding their catalog.  Well they are, but it isn't a concern.  Just ask any breaking band how hard it is to get songs on there if you're in a fairly main stream genre.  

Pandora turns away at least 50 artists for every one they accept.  Expanding their catalog isn't a problem for them that needs fixing.  If anything, they would probably like to make it harder for artists to submit It's super easy to submit music to Pandora.  https://submit.pandora.com/submit/submission  

*ALL* submissions are listened to, so it may be a while before it's considered to be included in the catalog. Oh sure, submitting is easy.  Getting added to the catalog isn't.  I know a lot of people who've gotten through and a lot who've been rejected.  

It was a heck of a lot easier to get on Pandora 5 years ago.  At this time though, unless you've already made it in your geographic region or are filling in a niche genre like children's music, your chances are pretty much slim to none.  It isn't a feasible tool to build fans for new bands anymore.  

It still is a great tool for bands who are able to fill medium sized clubs in their city and surrounding states to launch to a national level though.  I know a lot of bands who's earlier albums are on Pandora, but their newer ones aren't even though they have 2-3x the fan base now.  Pandora has really raised the bar.   &gt; It isn't a feasible tool to build fans for new bands anymore.

Thank you for explaining why Pamdora sucks now.

When I first started listening to it, I plugged in a bunch of artists I like and it threw a whole bunch of stuff at me I'd never heard - some of it I really liked. 

Now it just keeps playing the same damned artists I put in in the first place. Yawn.
 That's about how it is with me. But personally I just listen to Pandora in the car, and there I do prefer to hear the bands and songs I already like. Ain't got time for changin stations and skippin songs I don't like while drivin  &gt;I just listen to Pandora in the car, and there I do prefer to hear the bands and songs I already like. Ain't got time for changin stations and skippin songs I don't like while drivin

The thing is, I already *own*  the stuff they're playing. I have it on my phone and several iPods. In my car, I have a flash drive packed full of music my just set it to 'random". If I"m not I. The mood for whatever comes up, I just hit the 'next' button on my steering wheel. If someone were to break into my car, they'd steal a $15 flash drive - big whoop.

 Same here, I avoid the thumbs-up button now because if I use it too much, it'll just start replaying those same goddamn songs over and over. I'll only use thumbs-down for songs clearly outside of the genre I was aiming for, if I use it for anything else. . .who knows what they'll skim out in response?

I have a 'Nightwish' channel that tends to be repetitive. Nightwish has 8 albums, and I might hear songs from 3 of them. That's about it. Similar issue with Therion, they have 15 albums and I might hear songs from less than half that. It really just gets too repetitive sometimes, they don't let you narrow things down enough.

I use it because it's convenient and low-effort, so it'll hopefully cycle through enough songs to where it's not repetitive. It's not optimal. I already own about 40gb of music. I can play it from a number of different devices. I don't need Pandora for that.

I was using it to find *new* stuff and for a while, it was quite good. Have you heard of flattr? The mechanism seems to be what commenters in this thread want. I've been subscribing there for ages but I don't think the site has hit critical mass yet. I'm not totally clear on what cut they take, but it's probably a much fairer system than spotify or pandora. It also works on any platform, not just for music. YouTube has a tipping option for channels and they take a very small portion...can't remember how it's worked out but it's less than 10%. If Pandora could work out an ethical percentage, it would be doable... I had this great idea that Bandcamp would integrate this into a streaming service. Kinda like Flattr, but not bloated and everywhere. You'd have some number of 'credits' and as you played stuff, you could say 'Hey, I like this a lot,' and throw a dime or a quarter directly to the artist. You don't have to buy the album, 'cause you're streaming it, but you can still support the artist with the equivalent of loose change. I had plans to prototype it, but then they locked down their (Bandcamp) API and no longer provide developer keys. Have you tried contacting them directly? My pops is the lead engineer over and we chat a lot on how to improve the site (I'm young and with the times, he is old and even more with the times). They're always lookin for new shit, improvement shit. It's a neat idea imo, and it may not be something they're looking for, or even something you'd want to share. But I'd encourage you to if you did want to take the chance ) &gt; Unfortunately Pandora would likely try to take a cut once more, probably a sizable one.

Why shouldn't they?  They are providing the platform both for the music and, presumably, payment processing.  It's not insignificant to set up the infrastructure to collect money and pay it out to the correct people.

Some of this is probably in place to handle license payments on a per stream basis.  But does the tip jar go directly to the band, or to whomever signed the license deal with Pandora?  Isn't part of the reason bands don't make much from streaming the fact that the initial payment is small, and it's made to the label, which then takes a cut?  If they have to have a different payee for Tip Jar vs. per stream royalty that really complicates things. I think the tip jar idea is awesome but I agree with you. Pandora still has to able to at least recoup their expenses.  Hmmm -- lots of misinformation here :/ As both an artist and someone who's worked at Pandora, it's unfortunate this is the top comment.

1) Pandora (and online radio) pays out substantially more in royalties-per-play than terrestrial radio, satellite radio, or any other kind of radio. There's no reason to believe they would try to take a sizable cut out of it, and this is incremental revenue for both artist and Pandora. As OP said, a potential win-win. 

For comparison, iTunes takes 30%, and the rest of that 70% is then split amongst label, publishers, rightsholders, etc., leaving artists often with &lt;10% when all is said and done.

2) Bandcamp is a great service, but it doesn't give 100% donations to musicians. As a baseline, they take 15% of digital. Simply processing credit cards is often a couple percentage points, so no major service I've ever heard of is 100%. &gt;Pandora (and online radio) pays out substantially more in royalties-per-play than terrestrial radio, satellite radio, or any other kind of radio

Terrestrial radio streamed over the internet pays twice the rate of what pandora pays. Pandora is under "pureplay" royalties and "web radio" is designated more like terrestrial stations streaming via web. College Radio pays out even higher than that.


Pandora also pays out far less than iTunes/Spotify/any of it's competitors and **sued ASCAP to lower the already basement rates they payout**.

For someone supposedly hungup on misinformation, you just ended up being a commercial for pandora without shedding any light on any perceived wrongs. Please one of you cite a source. Fair enough:

http://www.bmi.com/creators/royalty/us_radio_royalties

https://www.aimp.org/copyrightCorner/9/Ten_Lessons_We_Have_Learned_from_Internet_Radio,_So_Far_...

http://www.broadcastlawblog.com/2014/04/articles/copyright-royalty-board-reissues-decision-on-internet-radio-royalties-for-2011-2015-same-rates-but-new-analysis/

Article on Pandora v. ASCAP:

http://www.nytimes.com/2014/03/21/business/media/pandora-wins-a-battle-but-the-war-over-royalties-continues.html?_r=0 The previous comment also implies that one play over terrestrial is equal to one pure play, which is obviously untrue.  One play on WHTZ could equal millions of listeners where pandora probably caps out at whatever the Fire Marshall allows for maximum bar occupancy. If anything the documenting of numbers is heavily in Pandora's favor. They can say "We know that X people listened to Y percentage of the song on reporting quarter Z" 

Terrestrial Radio cannot do this. If they rely on BDI/Soundscan/Nielsen, that costs them thousands of dollars per station per year and isn't nearly as stringent in reporting.

 BDI will know what songs they play via the station emailing/faxing in the report, but it will not know saturation/# of listeners. Stations rely on Nielsen's soundscan for this, which is insanely expensive and consists of cold-calling a random sample of landlines only and asking what times they listen to what stations. I'm sure we can all see how technology outpaced their business model.

 most urban/younger demographics no longer even have a landline unless bundled with their broadband. but since mostly everyone still pays for it, it is still the current standard. They tie these numbers into ad agency sales of Cost Per Point (CPP) in market specific/demographic specific ad targeting. 

A lot of smaller stations are to the point where they can gauge listenership/saturation more accurately through alternative means without having to shell out tens of thousands of dollars per year. unfortunately without the Soundscan numbers, they are disadvantaged from being kept off the playing field as the larger radio stations will still get first crack at ad dollars via the Nielsen Soundscan model. 

Public Radio is then a whole 'nuther beast unto itself.

Source: worked in an agency that sold advertising to radio markets, worked briefly in commercial radio doing IT. I have also served on the board of directors for several nonprofit radio stations and at one point oversaw almost a dozen radio budgets/year at the board/finance committee level. been involved with radio for about 15 years, including the new "web radio"/"pureplay" models since their current inception. &gt;you just ended up being a commercial for pandora

..

&gt; someone who's worked at Pandora

 I don't think Bandzoogle.com takes a
percentage of any sales, merch music etc.  Less then 10% per song (ie roughly 10 cents) is still better then requiring thousands of plays through pandora per user. I agree it's better then what they make on the radio but pandora isn't the hooly grail either. People like it because it's cheap for unlimited music but from the artists point of view it's rather poorly. 

Just imagine if you are musician and you want to make a basic wage of 40.000 USD a year, you require at least 30 million plays of your songs. For a famous artists this is even not easy to achieve.

And a tip-jar, really? How about like anything, pay sufficiently that people can get around to begin with.  Don't forget Bandcamp also takes a cut as a musician who sells his music on Bandcamp, they still take a 15% cut, plus you can only give away 200 free downloads each month before you either have to start paying for them or you sell them for money. you can't just take donations like that through their service I'd be ok with Pandora taking a cut, Pandora is a great service, but it's not actually making money. This would benefit Pandora and the artists. I agree, but at the same time I'd be pretty pissed if I found out they were taking over 50% for their cut. I'd say 20% would be fair.

Also, the artists cut should go directly to the artist if possible. Not to their record label (if applicable). Presumably this would get settled in an agreement between the artist and their label? *tips Pandora* M'usic Industry M'oney well spent I can't not pronounce this "muh-yoosic." I literally can't even http://i.imgur.com/EbHL0KO.jpg on a scale of one to even, i can't If you want to tip your favorite **local** artists, then buy an actual ticket to an actual show, buy a t-shirt, and then put a couple of dollars into their **actual** tip jar. Instead of buying the record off I-Tunes, where the band will be lucky to see cents returned for every dollar you spent, email the band and ask if you can buy it directly. Trust me, they'll ship it to you.

Don't *ever* let a middle-man handle the transaction if that doesn't have to happen.

Source: touring musician for about 8 years. Should have been more clear - I don't live in LA so I don't get to see them live anymore and I have all of their albums.  That's what got me thinking about it. Ok, that's fair. The point about contacting the band directly still stands though. I probably speak for a lot of musicians when I say that hearing directly from a fan means more than a few plays on Pandora, especially when they ask how to donate or purchase stuff so that we get the money for our work and not a 3rd party. 

I shipped a couple of sleeves of our cds to Iraq during the last Iraq war, free of charge, because one guy in a tank got a bunch of guys in his tank platoon hooked on our cd and they all started messaging us about it. We couldn't take their money, although they offered, and realistically when were they going to get a chance to come to a show? Same general rules would apply to anyone else. Win/Win for the band, we made people happy and increased awareness of our band. 

If you can afford it, we'll ship it. If not, we'll probably find a way to send you something anyway. Today, I would probably ship you, like, 10-15 stickers first and tell you to put them up in visible spots, tag a few pics of them on Instagram, and then send you the cd for free. 

 What's the name of your band/group? I refuse to leave my home. Take my digital tip money or get nothing.  So you're saying that I can take *just the tip*... money, or nothing?

 &gt; contact the band I can afford $1, not $50. Relevant comedy from The Oatmeal:

http://theoatmeal.com/comics/music_industry 100% agree but allowing another way for bands to make money directly from their fans seems like a no-brainer to me... even if whoever offered it was taking a tiny cut. 

Shit have you ever watched Twitch TV (where people stream themselves playing video games?) well people are more than happy to throw a lot of money around on there to help support their favorite streamers. 

Imagine if a music streaming site allowed this same feature. I think bands would really rake it in.  This. Don't get me wrong, we love iTunes, and Pandora, and (gasp) Spotify, etc. But /u/DeafDumbBlindBoy is right on. 

And support isn't always $$$. You can tell your friends, share the music on Facebook, reddit, real life, etc. That helps a lot these days too. Bands need new blood. They should treat themselves like startups and business. They should have tip jars for themselves in the forms of any number of digital payment methods, including Bitcoin and Dogecoin. Yes, Dogecoin.

They shouldn't be relying on others to handle shit for them. That's what put them in weak situations with labels. Those that can afford it should hire their own management team to handle their website, videos, downloads, and payment systems.

Those that can't should monetize their videos on YouTube and set up accounts with a Paypal-like provider (not Paypal) for tipping.

If it sounds like work, it is, I'm sure. And that sucks. But otherwise they're working for someone else, the same as the rest of us. Not sure if anyone's mentioned this but you can now tip dogecoin on soundcloud with dogebot  https://soundcloud.com/dogebot Sweet!  Is it only Doge or can you use Bitcoin as well? bitcoin and dogecoin are the answer to this problem.  Negligible transaction fees, no 3rd party processor, no need to sign in and jump through hoops to send a buck or two (or a penny or two).  It's literally what cryptos are best at, microtransactions are their killer app!    They really are not the answer. Not yet at least. The VAST majority of people do not use either. Maybe someday, but until then, gotta reach the much bigger audience and just accept the transaction fees. Of course they should still currently offer it as an option though.  I meant that they are a solution to the exact problem that OP had.  Wanting to send a little money quickly and easily over the internet, but finding yourself unable to do so.  A perfect solution to that problem exists in the form of cryptocurrency, but yeah, hardly anyone uses it for some reason.   I think Deadmau5 is really good at this. While he started with Ultra(I think) he made his own label, and recently set up a subscription service to his own website where buyers get exclusive content (unfinished songs, videos, samples etc).

You make a really good point about how musicians' inability to admin and commercialise their craft got them into an uphill battle with labels. Upvote m8. As a musician, the problem with this route is that it will work and pay off... if you stick to it for maybe 10 or more years. The problem here is that your band has no exposure. It's not enough to post YouTube clips and make tweets. No one will hear about you. You've got to go out to tour, and a lot of venues won't even give you the light of day if you're not with a reputable record label that will assure them that they will get people in the door and make them money. Want to tour with other bands? 99% of the time you have to be on the same record label as them. Don't have the money to even record your first album? The majority of record labels will pay for that for you so that you have the possibility of getting your music out there. 

Doing the everything yourself approach works if you already have an established fan base and are a well-known band. Go to kickstarter under the music section to see how many brand new bands have failed to get funds trecord their first records, and then compare it to already well-known artists and how successful their campaign was. You've got to do a stint of 2-3 records with a record label, build up a fan base and then you can go indie.  If you hear a band you like, just buy their album, or see them live. Exactly. Better still, invest time actively looking for music you will enjoy. Pandora and Spotify are not "music discovery" platforms, they are internet radio stations nothing more.  I like to tip indie artists on their youtube channel with bitcoin / changetip What if bands used a bitcoin address and you could tip that way? [deleted] This is probably the future of the music industry.  we'll call it the fandora

tips

heh Bitcoin FTW  Yea, bitcoin is perfect for these types of things Maybe for the 0.001% of the world that actually uses bitcoin... Actually, even if you don't want to receive bitcoin tips, you can instantly convert bitcoin tips into various currencies and have them deposited into your bank account if you'd like.

Bitpay, for example, takes 0% cut.

Now, this of course begs the question: "Well it won't matter if no one uses bitcoin to begin with! All that work to set up a tip jar that no one will use."

Which is partially correct. However, if you really liked the band, but couldn't go to one of their concerts in person to buy all the merch, I would say it's very reasonable to sign up for some site like Coinbase or Circle or Trucoin or whatever is available in your area, then buy a small amount of bitcoin to tip the band.

However, if the subject is "is it feasible right now?" then I'm sure for most bands and their audiences, maybe not... but if the subject is "is bitcoin a good way to tip people directly without middlemen" then the answer is yes. &gt;Maybe for the 0.001% of the world that actually uses bitcoin...

You are likely correct that bitcoin is *currently* not a solve-all for the situation (instant funding for indie groups), but the *technology* is correct in its application. There are already "Tip Jars" on reddit, youtube, twitter, facebook etc through the utilization of bitcoin/bitcoin technology. Check out [Changetip] (https://www.changetip.com/)

The problem with integrating a larger USD merchant like paypal would be that they are horribly inefficient at micro-transactions. 

So, you have a solution, its just not your ferarri. Your going to have to get used to driving the toyota for a while, because while it may not look like a ferrari, it operates practically and efficiently under the hood allowing for maximum savings. The funds can be auto deposited/ auto sold to a exchange, instantly converting BTC to cash in his account, to be withdrawn at scheduled intervals or whenever they feel like it.

If more people understood the function and practicality behind bitcoin, it would adopt faster, resolving these issues quicker. Its not a matter of if, but when "bitcoin tip jars" because the practical reality as opposed to the black swan proposal.

Besides, who doesn't like saying a good ole "Fuck you" to the banking/entertainment system, dis intermediating them from the process and incuring larger savings/wealth generation for *the people* instead of shareholoders? &gt; Besides, who doesn't like saying a good ole "Fuck you" to the banking/entertainment system, dis intermediating them from the process and incuring larger savings/wealth generation for the people instead of shareholoders?

In this case the entertainment system is Pandora, and the tip jar is embedded on the Pandora site where Pandora are providing a platform to help connect artists and listeners. Saying a good ole "Fuck you" to the site you are using seems a little hypercritcal. 

I think bitcoin probably will work well for tipping transactions like these. But I wouldn't be surprised or offended if Pandora hosts the jars and takes a (hopefully small) cut before passing on to the artist.  That's roughly 80,000 people to your calculations... There are provably much more people than that.

Regardless, it would be nice to have a way to donate without having a middle man, just make it an opt-in service. I'm sure 0.001% was in no way meant to be hyperbole. Which makes no sense because there are ~150,000 people just subscribed to /r/bitcoin and that's only a small part of the bitcoin community. I'm subbed to bitcoin, yet have no bitcoin... Can't really use the number of subscribers to gauge anything related to userbase. The technology is still *perfect* for this type of thing.  [deleted] Open an account on Circle/Coinbase/etc. There's lot's of options these days if you just need to cash out from Bitcoin. That or they can buy goods from an assortment of internet vendors directly of course. It's not as difficult to use as it was a couple of years ago and it's only getting better constantly. Much simpler than giving Pandora a username, password, email, your bank info and street address. Pandora would have to pivot in order to do this and I'm not so sure that they are capable. A new streaming service could be built on this concept though. Micropayments costing what they do to process, a virtual currency such as bitcoin would have to play a role if you want to maximize the portion going to the artist. It's a pretty good idea. Get on it! /r/Bitcoin This sounds like perfect candidate for Bitcoin integration  They really shouldn't. 

Pandora would just use it as an excuse to not pay the artists/labels properly. They've already had to settle several lawsuits about them not paying the labels/artists within the time their contracts with Pandora stated.

You want to tip the band? Buy the album, or merch, or if you're able go to a show. Don't want to spend that much money? Fair enough, then just pay for a song or two that are your favorites. Still don't want to do that? Then tell your friends and help spread the word about your favorite new band, if they have an official YouTube video, throw it up on Facebook and maybe a friend or relative will end up buying their record. 

There are so many other ways to "tip" and band and so many ways it can go wrong with a donate option in Pandora that it really doesn't seem necessary Tips are more likely if it's convenient for the tippers. This is just another route. If you have the app open and can just hit a "tip" button, that would be used a lot more than trying to track down where else you can do this. No, No a thousand times No

If you're not dedicated enough to stop your entire existence and consider undertaking, basically, a second job to search thru 3-4 bad links and old MySpace pages to try to figure out where a band is playing and then schedule around that then I'll be damned if any artist worth their salt would take even a penny of your lazy casual tip money.

How dare you suggest such a barbaric idea... buy their music instead of just thumbs uping. pandora conveniently links you to places where you can purchase their music. I wish Subway would put out a digital tip jar instead of the real one, the one the cashier keeps gazing at, gently nudging it toward me. Nah man, it's called use these tools to find these bands, then go to their shows buy their music wherever they sell it. Support the fuck out of them anyway! This is also a good way to get exposure obviously. Promote the fuck out of their work if you think they're awesome.

A friend of mine got me introduced to a lot of musicians when he moved out of state and I have gone and seem them play and he's helped them fill-in when needed. He's also showed me other bands he's found while touring that he enjoyed. Damn that is a good idea.  Or, how about a link to each artist's own tip jar(s). Hey everyone! I've also always wanted to easily tip my favorite artists, and so I built an iPhone app just for that! You can easily tip any artist or song in the world using Bitcoin or Credit cards! check out: http://huzza.io - we're releasing our public Beta in a few weeks, so sign up to get on our Beta list!
[EDIT] AND artist keep 100%, yes 100% of your tips!  How do you guys monetize it if you don't take a cut?

Also is this iOS only or also for Android? Hey! 
We will monetize later by taking a small commission (~5-10%) on sales of merchandise and concert ticket. But we will *always* allow our users to send tips to their favorite artists and will never take commission on these "fuzzy feeling" good will tips! :) We want to bring fans and artists closer!
iOS only for now, but android coming soon. Sounds good to me. I haven't used Pandora in a while so I don't know what it looks like lately, but I'd rather just have the option to buy the track or album as the tip. Once you've bought the album you shouldn't feel a need to tip. Or, if you do you could always buy it again and give it to a friend.

Even if you don't buy the track or album, you shouldn't feel guilty. Unless you're using some ad blocker you're not listening to it for free. There are ads that pay out to the artists.

Don't listen to all the hysteria that artists only make pennies per play. You have to remember that on radio that each time a track is played it is heard by thousands or even hundreds of thousands of people. When you listen to it on Pandora it's only heard by you. Of course that's going to pay differently since the potential audience is vastly different.

If anything, the streaming paradigm gives an artist much better metrics to understand their audience. On radio it just blasts out and you don't really know how many listeners you had. Streaming music gives metrics, which can be hugely important.

ps- there are sites like patreon.com where artists of all types can set up a profile and have people tip or support them. That's what I'd recommend for die-hard fans or enthusiasts who want to give ongoing support.

 Yes, don't believe the hysteria that artists receive pennies per play, because they don't, they receive a fraction of a penny per play.  Streaming is terrible for artists, you don't have to care, but don't create some fiction that providing metrics and not disabling an ad-blocker is supportive of musicians.   I do care. But, I also realize that any exposure is a potential opportunity for musicians to make money. That's mainly going to come from: playing live, writing music, and maybe merchandise for some.

Whatever we may think about the history of music and economics of the music industry from the time of the phonograph until now, the cat is out of the bag. Streaming and radio play are means to an end. The smart thing to do is to realize that and use the tools available.  stageit does this There's a site called "Music X-ray" and they have a tip jar for bands/musicians.  Seems like a pretty good idea for sure. Pandora NEEDS a "I'm tired of this artist" option!!!!

Sometimes I get sick of hearing the same artist (esp. on their comedy stations) but I don't want to go so far as give them a thumbs down. They have the option for songs, why not artists?!? I don't even pay for One and I've had it for 8 years. That being said, I love how much they promote new music and devulge into tons of different genras. Your best bet is to go buy the CD of that band if you want to help them. Pay for Pandora if you don't want to hear a few commercials to help them out. What they do is great, but I don't mind ONE commercial for a free great service.  Like any innovative idea it would be smothered by the byzantine set of legal contracts that overlap any popular artist.

There are sites right now that do tip jars but the broadcasters are unknown so legally it's cake. "This stream contains audio belonging to Warner Music Group. All donations are redirected to them until further notice." wana tip a band... buy their friggen music or merch... Pretty simple, doesn't have to be a complicated discussion.  There are ways to give a band money with out coming up with some crazy scheme...    Can't you just give them money. I see donation buttons on band websites a decent amount.  Enter Bitcoin. It sounds like what you're talking about is the "pay-what-you-want" model of music distribution. Sites like Bandcamp do this. You can download albums and you're asked how much you want to pay, you can pay nothing, or if you want to support the band you can pay whatever. People think it's not feasible but Radiohead tried it for one of their albums and the average payment they received per album download was $6, which was more than they would've got in royalties if they'd released it with the record company.  I thought the title said something about fedora tip jars and was just like, ohhhh youuuu reddit front page.  This is slightly better. I've tried buying songs direct from the iTunes link in Pandora just to make sure someone sees the transaction in relation to Pandora... but that process still appears to be clunky to me (link to web to iTunes.exe).   This could be an extension.... just thinking to myself.  It would need to gain momentum though.   Buy merch from the band. Fedora should have a tip jar for m'ladies Bitcoin! Or you could just, ya know, buy the song.  Wow, if only they would integrate Bitcoin tips into the App - that would be awesome.

/r/Bitcoin the "tip jar" idea is the future of artists (music or otherwise) being paid for their work.  unfortunately the credit card companies charge a base fee for every transaction, making tips lower than say, five dollars, basically worthless.  

bitcoin lets you tip as little as you want, without any transfer fees, but unfortunately they're hard to get and use.  

the thing holding back artists from getting paid is the fees per transaction by the credit card companies.  I don't even know why they're so high anymore, since everything is digital and instant. Why?

Just go to their website and buy merch or music. Because it's much simpler to do? 

 I have their music and I don't want to buy $20 worth of merch, or go through a full-on checkout.  I just want to thank the band and give them a few bucks. A penny power stream sounds like shit pay, but how much do they receive if a song is played on an actual radio station with thousands of listeners? Odds are it breaks down to less than that, so if anything they're making more on Pandora.  &gt; He told me he makes about $.01 per stream of his songs.

So if a million people listen to his music, he gets $10,000 without having to do any additional performance or work: setting up servers, prepping his music for streaming, creating or refining the tool people are listening to it with, or marketing the tool or his own work.

I (and I expect, many others) have bought some smallish chunk of my music collection based on hearing it on Pandora as well - I'm not sure if your buddy has any way to even know how many people have done the same, but of course that is arguably part of the income from having your music streamable on Pandora too: again, without having to spend anything at all on marketing.

I kind of like the tip jar idea anyway even though I cynically expect that tips would be enough to buy them lunch once a quarter, if that, even for well-liked bands, but this doesn't sound so bad.   &gt; So if a million people listen to his music, he gets $10,000 without having to do any additional performance or work

no actually because that .01 figure is way too high. also a million plays is kind of a lot... &gt;So if a million people listen to his music, he gets $10,000 without having to do any additional performance or work

But rarely will a song get that many listens without additional promotion/marketing and that takes work and money. Fuck these comments are terrible... Dude had a good idea. Shut the fuck up with your negativity!  It's almost certain that the labels would end up pocketing a large portion of the donations.

I say this as an industry insider who has some insight into what the contracts between music labels and companies like Pandora look like. 

Lets just say, the labels aren't any nicer to the streaming services than they are to the artists. It's very hard to make money being a company like Pandora/Spotify/etc. This is a good idea, probably won't work but I say message them. They may like the exposure from this idea. This would work really well for spotify. Maybe do DVD-release style, albums are available "in theaters", or paid version of the full album available for a certain time period, if it does well let it ride for free (regular spotify) after it releases in stores, if not pull it and put it on iTunes and just let those who paid keep their downloads. So much more music could be available via spotify if something like this gained support. Those random albums you just can't find on spotify? If it were an option to pay a few extra bucks for the full album, or full price to get it early, artists wouldn't be so hesitant to make their stuff available. 

Spitballing here, I'm sure someone has refined this idea.  So should Spotify. And they also need to implement a band specific merchandise corner.  Is there a website that allows bands to post videos/audio tracks and get tips from it? If not, I would love to be a part of something like that. It would be a way for musicians to use their talent for a little extra ~~drug~~ spending money and collaborate with other musicians around the globe.

In other words, I feel like I'm not the only musician that's sick of playing alone and being super broke and the internet could fix that.

I've always wanted to start one of those YouTube bands where all of the members are from different places, have never met, yet can come together through music and make something amazing. Every once in a blue moon I'll see some YouTube video and the band will throw up a QR code at the end.  I usually pause it right there, get out my phone, scan teh QR code and send them 0.50 to 2.00 depnding.  It's super easy to do.  I believe that people do want to tip--but what we want more is to have a personal exchange with the people who create the stuff we love.  I also think we want to feel good about pushing the creative economy in the right direction--which means more money to artists and less to freaking Pandora.  So how about a platform where you can directly support a band AND create a direct connection with them--what if you could pay something and, in return, you could get a direct personal message from the band/author/blogger/artist who you love?  I actually liked this idea so much that I quit my day job and launched a platform that does exactly that: tipglo.com Couldn't this be done by a chrome or Firefox adding allowing you to tip the bands PayPal account? Bands could sign themselves up... Or even just a way to better **connect** with the band? I know they've got the iTunes/Amazon links, but why not let the band add their official twitter handle, *their own website*, etc? Small steps could go a long ways towards actually letting people DISCOVER the music... and isn't that Pandora's whole mission ? They actually should  do something like this on many sites. I think that is a good idea.  I wouldn't tip any bands because I'm poor and need my money but rich people could and that would be tight. if people buy songs they wouldn't otherwise have known about i'd say having your small band's songs on pandora is still pretty good. There's a website called Patreon that basically does this. You can digitally tip bands, artists, web comics, writers, etc. The specific band you want to tip would have to set up an account though.  As a musician... I think that would be a *fantastic* idea.  In the LONG run it's more profitable for you to listen to the music on Pandora always earning 1 cent per play as opposed to buying the album at a flat rate once.

I recommend making a successful reddit post marketing said band and exposing them to a new audience. That would likely be the most helpful thing to do. 

;) It should accept money or crypto-currency (Bit/Lite/Doge)  Pandora should also have a tip jar for listeners. Sounds like a chrome extension could solve this problem. moreover, maybe just bands should start to accept donations via their home page.  That's pretty rare today. I would love to see this implemented on more and more systems. Ideally, something to the effect of filling a wallet, them taking a small "we are maintaining your wallet on our servers" fee, and then just being able to tip with a single button press while listening. It could allow for just spontaneous tips while keeping to a budget. Kind of like your Steam wallet, but without the regret and negative self reflection every seasonal sale. Pandora is about to start investing heavily in artist support.  If you haven't yet, look into Pandoras "AMP" platform and sign up or email to get in on it. Obligatory just the tip. This is the best idea I've heard in a while! Personally as a musician I feel comfortable saying your buddy is happy you and other people are enjoying his music more than anything. Those screenshots would've made my day.  Personally, I think this a great idea. Maybe they could give it a test? If all is well I think many people would enjoy this feature.  Why not have this for Spotify and other services? Wow. They are amazing. I am going to buy an album now. That song was fantastic.

*edit* They have one album and one ep on iTunes. 10 bucks total. Bought both.
 noisetrade.com is a great site to download music and listen to new artists. I go there on a regular basis to hear new sounds from various genres. They do have a tip jar but honestly when I like the band or performer a lot, I just buy the music. You can get lost in there, so be careful. OnPingo.com allows you to tip your favorite artist and actually has been building a pretty decent community.  I've tipped several people. This is a great idea.  All music services should do this.  However, most new artists are forced to sign 360 contracts, so the labels will still take the whole cut. Pandora should be available in Mxico Have you checked out flattr? It's a tip jar for everyone, integrates with most platforms, and not affiliated with any big businesses. You set your budget to what you can afford, it gets divided up monthly between all your flattrs. As an artist on Pandora, I agree  https://flattr.com/ No. Pandora should have availability in Europe. It's becoming increasingly apparent to me that systems like Pandora and Spotify have modeled themselves after record contracts from the 80s:  Everyone except the artist gets paid.  While I understand it is a business and needs money to function, you would think they (record companies included) would bother to spread their money around to the artists a little more since those artists are their bread and butter.  I can only assume they are viewing the bands like a caesar would view soldiers... as cannon fodder and a means to an end, easily replaceable. I know I am late as fuck for this. But if you want to support bands and artirsts, use Jamendo.  I'd like a little thing where an artist can just pop up a QR code and I can zap him a little tip.  Especially for the albums that changed my life as a kid. All I want is a flattr integration. ;) agreed.


giving you Gold in the spirit of the idea. https://sfx.io/ OP, I think that I may have just ruined the chances of your idea becoming a reality. 

Since I work in PR myself, I wanted to give the PR people at Pandora a heads up about this thread, and suggest that they may want to stop by thread and discuss it. 

I did some digging, and came up with a phone number for one of their PR people. 

I called, and it was her cell number, and she's on the U.S. West Coast. I woke her up.

She explained that it's 6:30, and asked me to email it to her. 

I'm not hopeful, even though I just emailed her. 

Sorry, OP, for probably screwing it up.   I'll give you Gold. 

 And a video of the bands watching you not tip to make you feel bad about yourself. That's actually brilliant Only commenting to say I think the tip jar is a great idea and thank you for posting the video because I really like this song. I am currently listening to their album on Spotify, which probably isn't any better, but... I don't know. I really like it, tho and would not have ever heard of them (probably) if not for this post, so thanks! Just sent him a picture of this comment - I guarantee it makes his day. Sweet! I'm pretty much through the whole album and have put a good majority of them in other playlists. Thanks again  :) I love Flyleaf and Resident Hero, and also their lead singers who have solo careers (Lacey and Ryan) and I definitely agree with you! eeek!  Lacey, not Lindsey.  Thanks for correcting me and I'm a huge fan of Ryan's work and stage-presence.  That guy was meant to play music. Girlfriend works for Pandora, just sent her a link to this thread.

No we sit back and wait.... From the company's standpoint, two things will happen. Actually three.

The first being, "No."

The second is, "How would us integrating this system with resources and linking it to each individual artist (essentially spending lots of money and resources) benefit us as we're still growing? What's the incentive for us (Pandora) to integrate this from a financial standpoint as a company? There's not much ROI besides press in this."

The third is "Yes, but Pandora will receive &lt;75% of all tips" Not entirely true. Pandora/Spotify have had a bad rep recently for not paying out enough. This gives them a way to say: if you're a big fan, we give you an option, which is a big deal to consumers.
 very true. There is a "tip jar" on Pandora... Its were you buy the song from Amazon, iTunes etc. I have purchased more songs because of Pandora. I don't feel bad for the artists. I would never have heard of some songs otherwise. +/u/dogetipbot 250 doge - if Pandora and others like it feel your idea of a tip jar is good then using /r/dogecoin is a good way. Great song as well, worth a tip. like give them "gold", but they get the money. Sounds like a good idea to me.  I think this is brilliant. I'm actually surprised he's getting $.01 per play, I thought it would be much less than that. I've deliberately gone out and bought people's work from where I think they'll get the best cut - bandcamp and CD baby seem to be some of the best.

Honestly, I wouldn't even be surprised if any "fee" from Pandora would be negligent or non-existent. &gt; I'm actually surprised he's getting $.01 per play,

There is no way he is. The OP must have mistaken $0.0014 (the statutory rate set by the US Copyright Board for streaming music royalties) for $0.01. Currently, they are paying as a percentage of their revenue:
http://rainnews.com/how-ascap-failed-in-the-pandora-royalty-trial/ That is part of the fee they have to pay for playing a song. ASCAP is the royalty organization for Songwriters, publishing, and composition. SoundExchange administers a fee for actually playing the song on a per play basis (which is the figure I mentioned). Pandora pays both of these organizations.
 Ah! Didn't realize they double dipped like that - I thought it just went to the recording company. &gt;Asscap

I lold Pandoras tip box  Bitcoin to the rescue! Damn, that song was horrible.  Really? I thought it wasn't that bad. I was expecting a lot worse to be honest. It's the auto-tune that really gets to me. It just ruins any semblance of emotion that might be conveyed; which to me is the point of music. Especially when you're trying to be a "rock" band. Why even have a lead singer? Why not just a perfect pitched robot? eesh, yea.  Seriously. /r/showerthoughts This has already been thought of- check out Flattr My brother had the idea of having a service similar to Spotify, but it would require a subscription, maybe $10 or something and the Spotify like service would take their cut (say $5) and the remaining $5 would go to the artists that the particular user listened to that billing cycle. So if you only listened to Blink 182, Green Day, NOFX and Coldplay the money would be split based on how much you listened to each band. 

Not sure if this idea could work, but it seems like it would be a little more fair to the artists. How is that different from how they operate now? I think it helps out the smaller artists more and it insures that more of your money is going to the artists rather than the service. If you only listen to 20 songs on spotify right now, assuming the 1 cent per listen is true, that's 20 cents going to artists and 9.80 going to the service. This way you'd split the remaining $5 with the artists. I think it would average out with the artists getting more money this way.

I imagine the current payouts for pandora and spotify to the artists is so low to cover themselves. If they offer too much money per listen they would get to the point where they're paying the artists more money than what was incoming. AFAIK Spotify mashes all of the revenue together, and then pays a percentage of that total revenue to the artists based on total stream numbers. Your subscription money doesn't necessarily go to the artists you listen to; it just goes into a pool and then from there it could go to anyone.

/u/TwoHeadedBoy_pt2's system basically just keeps your money in the hands of the people you listen to. If you recall the Vulfpeck silent album stunt from a while back, it would make something like that less feasible because the band would only be able to pull revenue from the people who actually listened to them, rather than the Spotify userbase at large. You basically just described flattr $330 bail, lol.  Can he afford that? He was about to pay his bail, but then he got high Now they haulin' his ass to jail, and I know whyyy Why man? Because I hit that bitch in the mouth.  That bitch in the mouth. That bitch in the moooouuuuuth A la dah di. Dah didi dah Now she's a paraplegic, and I know why...  WHY MAN?! Haha probably not.

He used to play in my old college town on 15 cent beer night with a $5 cover. His "crew" would rap terribly for about 3 hours, then he would stumble on stage at about 2-2:30 (bar closes at 3), and play some songs. They had a crappy old van parked out front. Seemed like they made enough money for weed and gas to the next town. This sounds suspiciously like Bloomington, Indiana. Did the 15 cent beers give it away? How big were the beers for 15 cents? Im picturing a dixie cup for that price  20oz stadium cups I think, they do it every Wednesday to clear out their kegs. Cheap, gross old keg beer... 

But for 15c... No one in this town has enough shame left to care. Sounds like my kinda town He can use what she paid to get bitch slapped. That wasn't a slap, bitch got falcon punched.  Afro punched. You called? You are just a jab, not a punch.

Someday when you get older you will be a punch. Where's he going to get the other $320? $ 326.50 you mean

She already paid the other... Tree fiddy? OH NO YOU GET OUT OF HERE LOCH NESS MONSTER  Tree fiddy. if only it was $90 more Or $20 more God damn Loch ness monster "And that's when I realized the judge was a 30 foot tall creature from the Paleozoic era" soclose.ppt [deleted] I hear he has a tendency to address touchy situations heavyhandedly.  Josh Homme, from Queens of the Stone Age, dealing with a similar situation.  
 https://youtube.com/watch?v=YXQ7crYjlQM Maynard from Tool, dealing with a similar situation. (~2:45)
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LKrUaY6hgpM
 That's a pretty solid hip toss. *Try to remember the basics of CQC* He was in the Military  I love how he just ends up taking him prisoner and singing to him.  [Henry Rollins back in the Black Flag days.](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=b4uahL_tQWc) If I recall correctly that is exactly how Randy Blythe was charged with murder in the Czech Republic. A fan hopped up on stage and Randy threw him off, and he broke his neck when he fell. They stated that he was responsible for the death, but the security was to blame for letting the guy on stage. I believe it was manslaughter, but yeah. I was going to get to see them open for Gojira once, but this ended up cancelling the show That was my first time on TMZ, and man that is an awesome headline. I hope they are all like that.

"Afroman -- UNLOADS Devastating Punch on Female Fan"

As opposed to 

"Afroman arrested after assaulting fan at concern"

 Yea it sounds like it was written by a WWE commentator.  I guess he's a two hit wonder now 3 hit 
Because I Got High and Colt .45 are both good songs 

Edit: I just got 25 replies

I get it, Colt .45 isn't a hit, you can stop explaining it now  Don't forget Palmdale. I don't think it really got all that popular though. No more rats, no more roaches, living next door to football coaches... 


  I lived in Palmdale for a year. What a shithole. Definitely the worst place I've ever lived. But, at least there was no gangbangers killin each other for rep, or selling rock cocaine on your doorstep, right? Actually funny you mention that.

When we moved there, we bought a fridge off craigslist (side note: since when do apartments not come with a fucking fridge??).

The people we bought it from were selling it because they were leaving Palmdale because they were being threatened (and assaulted) by gangbangers. I didn't believe them at first but he had a black eye and bruises and then when we were loading it up, about a half dozen thugs came around the corner and stood across the road sneering and yelling at us. Honestly it was pretty scary, I've never been in a situation like that before.

It really is a shithole. It's the last stop on the metrolink, and it's still technically LA County. So the LAPD likes to do things like load up homeless people on the train and send them out to the Lancaster station just to get rid of them. And there's a lot of career welfare recipients that move out there because the checks are based on your county (LA County=more money) and it's a lot cheaper in Palmdale than within the city of LA.

If you ever get a chance to visit Palmdale, just... don't.  &gt; If you ever get a chance to visit Palmdale, just... don't.


Noted The west side of palmdale is a bit better.  Or, you lived in post-Afroman palmdale. "It was just sundown in a small white town, they call it eastside Palmdale... When Afroman walked through the white land, houses went up for sale" There was this blind man, right? He was feelin' his way down the street with this stick, right? He walked past this fish market, you know what I'm saying? He stopped, took a deep breath and said...

*snifffffff* "WHEW! Good morning ladies!" Hahahaha you like that shit man? I got a gag of that shit man! It's not "Colt .45", it's called 'Crazy Rap'. Also, Palmdale is a great song.  I had a girlfriend actually get pissed off with me for saying that the song is called 'Crazy Rap' and not 'Colt 45 and Two Zig Zags' because 'everyone calls it that, who the fuck calls it Crazy Rap' 'The guy who wrote the song? Here I have the record, check out the song list on the back' 'no thats stupid it's obviously Colt 45 and Two Zig Zags'   Pretty sure it's called "Teenage Wasteland" *Baba Ganoush* [Right you are, Ken.](http://s2.dmcdn.net/chfE/x240-FhS.jpg) Your girlfriend really doesn't know when she's beat. "Someone proved me 100% irrefutably wrong? Better keep digging that hole!" Send her up on stage with Afroman, then she'll know when she's beat. Palmdale? Come back to me.., I like palmdale. Oh, he's actually called Afroman Ha. Im not joking when i saw the first post. It said afroman hits girl. I thought it was just OP saying a dude with an afro. Like how was I meant to know it would be Afroman from WAY back playing a guitar of all things.

Edit: Im talking about the first gif uploaded not this threads OP. ^soz

I thought OP was dodging saying "black guy slaps woman on stage" Afroman is playing in my town  on Saturday night...Should I get on stage and rub my butt on him?

EDIT: Looks like they cancelled the show. I unfortunately will not have the opportunity to get bitch slapped off the stage. Sorry folks.  Third time I've made this offer: If you are seeing him soon, wear a shirt with the screen cap on it (screen printed, or just tape a printed screen cap on the damn thing) and I will reimburse you the cost of the shirt, as well as gild you.  Wouldn't it be awesome if T-shirts could display gifs? Obviously Afroman shouldn't have done that, but where were the security guards?  How does someone stay on stage that long without being taken out? The question nobody wants to acknowledge.

Stay off the stage dickheads. If a man was rubbing his ass all over Beyonce people would call it sexual assault and she would be praised for defending herself. You would think that someone who smokes that much weed would be a little more chill than that. The weeds not the problem.... It's the coke. But that's not what Nancy Grace told me... Given enough time, Nancy Grace will have every possible opinion and its direct contradiction. Given enough time, I think it'll come out that Nancy Grace is coked or pilled up herself.   Oh she's definitely poppin' pills.  "But my doctor prescribed me those for my back pain. Its got to be safe because they're from a DOCTOR." It's different you know. definitely hopped up on goofballs.  &gt;Given enough time, Nancy Grace will have every possible opinion and its direct contradiction.

quantum reporting

Edit: replied to wrong person Time to formalize this truth:

The Nancy Grace Completeness Theorem

"Given infinite time, Nancy Grace supports, at least once, every opinion, including those that directly contradict prior opinions."

edit: modified to rectify the logical tautology noted by /u/LordOfDemise  Put infinite Nancy Graces on infinite channels and eventually... 

Jesus, I can't even bare to finish that thought.  Some people are even bigger assholes when they are high, not everyone mellows out from it Just one foot closer and she would have broken her neck on the edge of that platform.  What an intricate guitar solo.  "I'm going to need a volunteer from the audience..." It seems most people commenting on the gif over at /r/gifs keep asking why he isn't in jail. He was definitely [arrested](http://www.tmz.com/2015/02/17/afroman-arrested-punches-fan-on-stage/). [link to gif](http://i.imgur.com/T9UlKR9.gif)

dude wrecked her Damn, they are both fucking lucky she didn't crack her head on that stage when she fell. Did he try to shrug that shit off? It looks like he tried to shrug that shit off.  It was more of a shoulder roll than a shrug. To set the clothes back in place it looks. Oh, I thought he was relaxing his attack-slap arm, but that's possible as well. Hope that wasn't a tooth that went skittering across the stage. Someone needs to put this on /r/WastedGifs [And there it is!](http://i.imgur.com/fUerYfg.jpg) Holy fuck. 

A little shove may have been justified but that was a hard hit Let's at least be happy that a black man hitting a white woman in Mississippi only resulted in an arrest. Progress? &gt; Afroman's rep says the rapper had no idea if the fan was a man or a woman

Was it suppose to give him a lighter sentence had it been a man? This wouldn't even be on the news if he hit a man. 


 Keith Richards hit a fan on stage with his guitar... I don't think anyone made a big fuss about it... [YouTube link](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dv1bM0pp_o4) He also bailed that guy out of jail later that night.....keith is a real bro, hits you with his guitar then gets you out of jail.

 Then he's like 'Let's go back to my place, lad, and snort a fine line of me ol dad.' Akon threw a guy off stage onto hard concrete. No one cared. Then he grinded with a girl on stage who turned out to be under 16 even though the club was 18+, and everyone freaked out. Despite what people would like to believe, gender does affect our perceptions. I'd wager it would be glorified:

'Artist decks idiot fan who interrupts show on stage.' When rapper Action Bronson bodyslammed men, it was glorified.  Pretty sure he got in trouble for like pouring a bottle of water on a transexual persons head and posting a picture of it on twitter.. /r/JusticePorn front page material Now it's probably gonna be /r/pussypassdenied frontpage material. The afroman thing is all over that sub.  Rapper Action bronson has been known to judo throw fans who decide they want to get on stage It happens all the time at concerts. The last thing they want is people constantly climbing up and when people ignore the warning this happens... Here's [my favorite clip](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dv1bM0pp_o4) of a performer dealing with a rowdy fan who jumped on stage [Relevant](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=m-flx-hUxKY)

This is what security is for. It would be posted on /r/justiceporn If a drunk man got on stage and started grinding a woman while she was doing a guitar solo, and she knocked him out, would anybody be talking about this?  He's not getting any sentence, justice is blind. The only time I've personally seen a drunk man get on stage was at a Queens of the Stone Age show. He grabbed a towel out of Josh's back pocket and Josh immediately stopped playing and tried to pants the guy, but security got to the drunk guy before Josh could succeed. Haha he tried to pants him. That's a great reaction. Yes people would be talking about it but they would be saying that the guy was an arsehole and the woman is a hero.  He'd be charged for Sexual assault "Afrowoman decks pervert, hailed as champion of civil rights" Here is Maynard from Tool dealing with a somewhat similar incident:

https://m.youtube.com/watch?v=0bqrvZNP1hs

Sorry for the mobile link.  I love how he keeps on singing while still taking the dude out. That was the single greatest moment of that dude's life.  THATS A HIP TOSS MAGGLE!

 "Here have a hug, beloved fan.." I love that Maynard sat on him while he finished the song. &gt; Tool

Hah, I just posted the same thing. Maynard studied Brazilian Ju Jitsu a while back with the Gracie family. Don't know how accomplished he is, but I wouldn't mess with him. If I were that chick I would demand I get my three dollars back. [deleted] I was definitely expecting a video of him ripping a bong, not punching a fan I was waiting for this, I really was.

I probably should have used the time to come up with a witty retort, but I didn't. 

Because I got high. She should consider herself lucky she wasn't at a Lamb of God concert. Venue security should usually be handling these things I just want to point out that a few weeks ago you were all in love with the punk guitarist that kicked the person on stage.

I'm not sure if you're all racist or sexist because I don't remember the gender of the person that guy kicked but you all some double standard motherfuckers. I think there's a difference between [kicking a phone out of a guys' hand](http://www.kerrang.com/26067/jordan-buckley-kicks-fans-phone-stage-selfie), and hitting another person in the face as hard as you absolutely can without warning.  

For the record, I love ETID, but still didn't think him kicking that phone was appropriate, though that being said, I understand his reasoning

Edit: fixed link due to idiocracy
 biggest hit he's had in years? any takers? Hope his career doesn't go up in smoke Genuinely curious: isn't grinding against someone without their permission sexual assault.  Yea it is. But we're going to ignore that fact.

Edit: Incoming internet tough guys, lick my balls retards. I hope you don't mind if I borrow your edit for when I have controversial things to say. Great edit, lol. If it were a female singer and a male grinder, we'd have a very different post here Genuinely curious: isn't is possible for both parties to be at fault?   I just got that the guy's actually called Afroman, thought it was American slang for black guy before I realized it If we Americans went around calling black people Afromen... Jesus, I can't finish typing that thought because I can't stop laughing. Jesus I read about halfway through this abomination of a thread and all I see is male/female is it or is it not right to hit her - is it or is it not a double standard bullshit. 

WHERE THE FUCK IS SECURITY? 

Is Afroman just playing in someone's basement here or what's going on? Why was some woman allowed to enter the stage and linger in the first place? Answer that question, and you can pretty quickly finish up the rest of the thread. 

I've played plenty of shows where we are out in the crowd and it's a big love fest, and other times, I would have done the same as him in the situation. It really depends on what you set up as a performer. If you don't have security watching the front line / wings of the stage, shit like this can be expected, and you shouldn't be decking fans when it happens.  It ain't right to deck a woman (or a man), but I'm a musician and reading the TMZ comments (I know, I know) a lot of defenders of the woman are saying she was obviously a fan. Let me tell you something, don't assume just because a drunk, self-entitled chick gets up on stage trying to show off that they are a fan of the music. They don't give a flying fuck who's playing, they just want to take over and become the show in some type of weird self-confidence boosting exercise. I once had three hot young ladies walk up on stage, drinks in hand, just after we finished our first set. They proceeded to try to talk in the microphone (which was off) and in the process spilled beer all over my pedal board. I walked up to the stage and yelled at them to get the fuck off the stage. I'm bald, bearded and close to 300 pounds. That shut that down pretty quick. Bitches are lucky they didn't fry the 1000+ dollars of pedals on my board. Trust me, there isn't a musician alive that wants people from the crowd coming up on stage, unless you are cool about it and just want to quickly jump off into the crowd for a surf and stay away from us. Then that's cool. Fatality
http://media.giphy.com/media/UcwwKPsbrouqI/giphy.gif &gt;when the woman somehow got on stage and started dancing next to Afroman -- and then suddenly, without warning ... he turned and landed a right-handed haymaker to her face.

I was gonna say.... from the looks of that video: she looked like she wasn't supposed to be there... at that point I just assumed he freaked out thinking he was gonna be mauled by a fan/hater or something.... time to read on!

&gt;Afroman's rep says the rapper had no idea if the fan was a man or a woman -- he just reacted to someone being on stage.

I wish the rep didn't say this and it came out of the dude's mouth.... but I'm leaning on Afro's side here..... why the fuck were you on stage? Sure, slamming her in the face wasn't right, but neither was being on stage in the first fucking place.


I hope Afro don't get slammed too hard for this.... that be kinda like slamming Kiss for threatening the guy that pointed the laser pointer at them.....

 Jesus. I know she shouldn't be on stage, and she is interrupting your show, but did you need to hook her in the face?


Reddit- You scare me sometimes. The amount of you people messaging me, stating that he was in the right. Y'all need some help. In no way, is striking someone on stage correct. I don't care if you are white, black, asian, male, female, or anything I didn't list.

Don't try to bring gender and race into this. That just makes you look even worse than you are already making yourself look.  When I was a kid back in the 70's I remember Keith Richards (and probably several other rock stars I can't remember particularly) clobbered a fan over the head with his guitar and put him in the hospital.   Damn, that's a lot of clobbering!  Did they all just line up and smash him one by one, or...?  Did he even survive?? It's a really weird disconnect that parts of reddit has. It's really hard for some people to accept that *both* parties involved in an incident can be in the wrong.

Fan got on stage. Wrong.

Performer punches fan in the head. *Also wrong*

Kids ride snowmobiles through private property. Wrong.

Property owner strings up barbed wire at neck level. *Way more wrong!*

Guy acts like a dick. Wrong.

Other guy shoves first guy off a bridge. *What the hell is wrong with you?!*

It's like there's a massive justice wang that can only have two people involved, the fucker and the fuckee and that as soon as you determine that one person is in the wrong anything that happens to them is automatically justified. I think there's some people who want someone to do something they think is even slightly wrong so they can "justify" doing something sadistically wrong to the other person. Oh that guy is drunk and said something a drunk person would say, that means I should be able to *stomp* on his head. It'll be his fault because he was drinking. 

 This is gonna sound weird but I roleplay in a certain online videogame. There's a system in place in the large community I roleplay with that allows characters to kill each other, but only under very specific rules. And in this system, you get to see the weirdest mentality ever, which is when certain people make such massive, desperate stretches in logic in order to explain why the other person has to die. It's never why they should be allowed to kill them, it's always why THEY have to die.

And then they throw fits when they aren't allowed to. Like, throw-a-tantrum-and-later-start-crying kind of angry. And these are grown men and women, who can function in society and are otherwise polite humans throughout the game. We call it a "murderboner" here, and it seems like a genuine mental problem that might actually be more prevalent in the civilized world than one might think. Yep. People love watching somebody get their head stomped in, but they're uncomfortable simply admitting their sadism. So they put a fig leaf over it by convincing themselves that the guy 'deserved' it. It's even better when the guy really did do something wrong. Then the blood can flow and people can pretend they're being moral when they watch others' suffering. upvote for "fig leaf"  Sick sad and true:( You have been banned from /r/JusticePorn While I agree with you....


Damn that comment accelerated quickly Must go faster!

Some Jewish guy was a bit of an art snob.

Literally Hitler. Travel to higher elevation? 

Nope. Quantum tunnelling. Literally cant escalate faster. You hit the key on the nail with this hammer. &gt; It's like there's a massive justice wang that can only have two people involved, the fucker and the fuckee and that as soon as you determine that one person is in the wrong anything that happens to them is automatically justified.

Bingo.  Agree. All wrongs are not the same. There are varying degrees. Both of them were wrong, but she was only guilty of getting on stage and annoying him while he was guilty of nearly putting her in the hospital. 

 Such a double standard because she's a woman. Consider what you're saying if he was a female and she was a 30 foot tall xenomorph queen from LV-426 and she was about to implant a baby chest burster alien in his chest. Would you still be saying he was in the wrong for hitting her *then*? Fair point.  Another Red Pill / MRA activist missing the point completely and distorting the facts.    A Xenomorph queen would never implant a chest burster.  They lay eggs!  The facehuggers implant chest bursters!  Your lack of knowledge, and carelessness with the Xenomorph lifecycle is disturbing and disappointing. I identify as a Xenomoprh and I am insanely triggered by your statement. What if I am a Xenomorph queen that identifies with the ability to chest burst? Typical Rad Fem excluding Xeno-Queens out of the conversation. Ugh. woah, slow down buddy. check your xenomorph queen privilege. i identify as a facehugger and do you have any idea how triggering it is to just assume everyone has the luxury of chestbursting? how typical for you to exclude facehuggers from the equation.  "*buddy?!*" 


omg This entire thread is just... Scary spot on. Am I a racist if I think all xenomorphs look the same. Also they are bad drivers and are taking jobs from good american people Yo, that's just xenophobic, man.

Not cool. If he had taken acid prior to performing, Afroman might very well have thought this was exactly the case. Just don't hit people.  yeah, every artist wants to murder people that get in their personal space while performing... but come on, just do what other artists do, shove them away and chastise them in front of everyone. -not gendered
-agreeable statement

i can get on board Tell that to Dimebag Darrell. What about the many cases of deranged fans coming on stage to commit violence?  Fucking dimebag got killed while on stage and people don't think some performers are going to be a bit protective?  It only takes one deranged person hopping on stage and shooting or stabbing someone to make people realize its a potentially life threatening move.  Hell, if a security guard catches her and body slams her, I doubt anyone is in arms. John Lennon says hi Afroman did this to man about 4 months ago. No charges. 

 Link? I'm curious. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=F9BiEN2UY7w

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-tbOAa9taSw#t=100

http://simplyneon.com/2014/12/28/watch-afroman-throw-fan-off-stage-for-not-passing-the-blunt/
 Then that was the man's decision not to press charges. But if he had wanted to, it would have been totally justified.

Edit: Apparently I have no idea how due process works, and the victim doesn't decide whether or not charges are pressed. [deleted] As someone who spent a decade playing to drunk people in drunk people places...  you sir, are correct on all accounts.  I can't count the number of times I wanted to hit someone, didn't, but really wanted to....   mmm sweet young thread bound for front page action [deleted] open handed slap to the face is not a hook.  Don't wanna fall off the train. You'll end up looking like the drunk girls face. I was gonna ride this karma train, but then I got high. Awww yeah baybay Way to create an absolutely useless comment thread that contains no substance whatsoever simply because you know the post will do well. That's exactly a circlejerk. Fuck off and contribute to the discussions... This shit actively makes this website worse.  Your contribution is super great though.  You get to feel better than us now, yay! Is it discrimination to hate bigots? That's essentially what's happening here. Sure, I'm not contributing directly with that comment, but I'm trying to prevent further circlejerk behavior. Like seriously, his comment may as well be "first" or "commenting for karma." It adds nothing.  have i perturbed your jimmies, bub?  Why don't you have a seat, right over there. and another [angle] (https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=liJ-zVfHvs8#t=17) This angle makes it seem about 1000x less of a big deal. She gets up under her own power pretty damn quick. In the GIF it looks like she's dead. reading his lips at first i thought he said "sorry brother" but the second word now looks like "problem"? "got a problem?"
 Let's start a thread with people dubbing shit in there....even making it sound like he's playing a retarded song. if you build it they will come ...You linked the same video 17 seconds in after the punch already happened. Am I missing something here? no, I dorked it.  Tried to replace the link with the correct one but reddit blocked me saying it was a duplicate I'm supposed to be seeing him this weekend. Does this mean he won't be playing? Someone stated he's out on $335 bail or something ridiculous like that. So you'll probably still see him.

If you make a T-shirt with a screen cap of the moment he hits her, and wear it to the show, I will reimburse you the costs plus gild you.  I really like your idea. How could I make a shirt that fast though? Worse comes to worse, you could wear a printed out screen cap taped to a blank shirt. Go buy the iron on paper from a craft store and you can print it at home. Go buy transfer paper from an office supply store, print the screen cap on it with any inkjet printer, and then iron the paper onto the shirt following the package instructions. Should take a couple hours at the most. Bad news everyone! Apparently his show is getting canceled this weekend :( [Link](http://www.wect.com/story/28140455/wilmington-afroman-performance-canceled-after-fan-decked-in-biloxi) You've got to be kidding me. I live between Raleigh and Wilmington... I could have gone to this show... Could have. I'm in Wilmington and I just heard about the show yesterday and was planning on going. Why Afroman, why? Damn. Well, eat a Flaming Amy's burrito for me. Or anything from PT's Grill. Damn, I need to drive to Wilmington this weekend. Oh my goodness, why did he deck her? Was security not available? I can't believe she stood back up after that! Prob because she scared him. She shouldn't have been on stage. From the video it looks like he didn't even know she was their until she sexual assuled him by grinding on him. Then, out of reaction, he hit her.  Wow, that is a really good point. I did not realize he did not see her. I have reacted instinctively before. One time a kid fell back and a cougar grabbed him through the fence at the zoo and without even thinking I had jumped in after the kid and it was not even my kid. Excellent point that I had not considered.  This is his biggest hit in over a decade That's the last time he'll cover an Ike Turner song. Throwing this out here, I live in the next city over from Biloxi, MS (where the venue was located). Having worked for the same security company that was doing the venue here, I can confirm that the security is pretty shitty. Most of this is in part because most of the regular guards just don't care. 

Usually it's the event head of security that only cares about his job, of which I can attest that they are usually good guys, with the exception of a couple. Problems like this occur during moments of complacency, which comes easy at small venues, especially when you are getting paid $8 for the job to just stand around and risk your safety for no benefits.

The security company (Swetman's Security) has an interesting hierarchy, and if you aren't a member of their clique, you really get the shit end of the stick. I'm not saying this as a disgruntled ex-employee, but more-so from an understanding on the guards point of view. When the company you work for sometimes puts you on a job site, with no relief, food, or water for 8-12 hours at a time, it's kind of shit deal. 

What's worse is when I had the chance to see the contracts made with the security company for protection, small venues, or even low value events (like graduations because the school districts can't pay much) is between $18 - $25 a head for a guard, and the staff is only being paid $8 an hour, there is a big difference. A lot of people say it's for overhead; it's not... They only staff a very small handful of people to oversea this entire operation, and the headquarters is in a tiny house, that shares with his construction company, and his rental properties management. He still requires his employees to go pick up a paper check, as he won't do direct deposit. 

Wendi Swetman is a multimillionaire, is one of the board of supervisors for the county, and is looking to run for political office next election term, and is gathering a large amount of funding at local fundraisers. God forbid if you cross the man however, considering the large amount of pull he has in this region. If you piss him off he will blacklist you so hard, and getting a job any where is damn near impossible. To those that think, that isn't applicable in today's world anymore, it all depends on where you live. Here on the Mississippi Gulf Coast, you can out perform, be more qualified, and an overall better candidate for the job; but if someone played football with your hopeful employer, and their son is complete fuck up - he will still get the job before you.


tl;dr

Swetman Security Service, the security company for this venue is run by the cheapest and one of the worst employers. As such, he under staffs events, and what employees he does have, usually don't give two shits, due to poor treatment; thus leading to security flaws that allow the public to get on stage. This was an extremely small venue, and isn't the first time something like this has happened down here. However, because it was a black man who supports legalization of marijuana that struck a white woman, it now has made national news. &gt; the company you work for sometimes puts you on a job site, with no relief, food, or water for 8-12 hours at a time, it's kind of shit deal. 

I work for a major venue booking company during the summer, and we work hand in hand with Staff-1, the local large venue security company. The employees, as you say, really don't care. Most of them are so old, frail, or other that I wouldn't trust them with my safety, so I don't. 

But what you mention sounds illegal. We always have giant water coolers posted anywhere someone is stationed that requires them staying put, like the back wall, stage L and R, and exits leading to back/staging areas. They also give us coupons for free/discounted food at whatever venue we work. And I don't know how your's does it, but we have people working as breakers, who constantly walk big circles and make sure *all* staff, security, ushers, ticket takers, etc are given adequate bathroom breaks. The meal situation sucks for us, but isn't illegal; a paid 15 minute meal break for each 4 hours scheduled. But by the time we get our food and to an area we are allowed to eat, it's been 10 minutes usually haha. 

Finally, it's been claimed that he was handling his own security, which would mean Swetman, if anything, would be running a skeleton crew. I would also guess that Afroman would have his people at the stage and backstage entrances only, as his security entourage probably isn't *that* big. So it might have been his own people who let her through. As I said before, tits were probably involved at some point. 

 It is illegal some of the stuff he does, and while on the job site I called the office requesting relief to pee, or to bring me water. They said they had spoken to the guy who was supposed to be breaking people, this occurred 3 times before I called up and asked them to bring me something themselves as the office was 3 miles away, and was turned down. I promptly left the job and abandoned my post after 9 hours in the sun.  It wasn't the first time this happened. (However, when the man has most of the region under thumb, and is corrupt enough to have as much influence as he does, there isn't much one can do. He's a retired cop, he has contracts with the cities in the court systems, you can't really fight him, especially with lack of evidence,  it's just a David and Goliath story where he can fabricate whatever is needed to make him seem infallible.)

Usually for larger events they do provide water, sometimes food, or at least would inform if you needed to pack accordingly, this wasn't always the case however. 

For nearly all concerts, and other venues, it's in his contracts that they are to be the only security service with posts on site other than the local police department, to ensure continuity or some garbage.  If there was personal security, they would either be in the tour vehicle, or grabbing a bite to eat. Wow, that's shitty. It's unfortunate that they his company is acting as a monopoly on security for events. But you're right, what can you do? He would be able to take a hit in court costs and keep on operating, while the average Joe can't afford the cost of litigation to even bring employers to court. And in my state (NC) we have right to hire/fire bullshit laws, so you can be fired at any time as long as the employer tells the equal employment commission it was for a legit reason; which they can always lie about. His hand was open, that was just a warning. Keep an open hand and it'll keep you out of prison. I'm trying to recall the last occasion a similar thing was discussed on reddit.

Help me out here, folks. Who was it that ended kicking someone and up pushing one of their backup singers into a group of people trying to get on stage, only to be met with massive amounts of sympathy here on reddit, on the basis that there are always at least one crazy in these crowds?  

I could totally be getting the details wrong, by the way. I genuinely can't remember much about the whole ordeal.

Anyone have a memory better than myself? I think it was Fat Mike I believe you are right. Someone posted the video further down. Well, do you remember if the artist hit a woman? If not, that explains the lack of white-knighting.  Was that a punk show? If so, you can expect bruises if you jump around in the mosh pitthat's kind of the point. Afroman was playing a lilting guitar part while a half-drunk badly dancing lady swayed around slowly and then BOOM extreme mosh pit behavior. Followed by the same light guitar chillness. Context matters. You don't expect to get your ass beat at a stoner concert.  Should we expect to get shot at a metal show? Considering shootings happen at .0001% of metal shows and moshing happen at around 99% of punk shows, no. 

Now how many shows have you heard of where a stoner playing some chill music suddenly decides to deck someone that annoys them? I'm thinking it's in the .00001% territory.

Also, seriously? As someone who worked at a 3k person venue for 4izh years, I can undoubtedly say our number one over-the-top/unnecessary violent crowds were either country or rap/hip hop.

Metal and punk rock were the easiest. My theory is that they attend more and know how to behave in a concert environment. Example. Motorhead was the best crowd I ever worked.

Also, those jam band/hippie shows had unruly crowds but mostly on a drunk level. Not so much violent.

Edit. Minimal to zero experience with people getting up on stage uninvited.  My security crew did their job. And no.  Not seriously.  It was the lead singer from the grateful dead I wonder how long after the punch he realized "Wait a minute.. I'm a black man in Mississippi who just punched a white woman in public"
..   (Because I Got H)Eye of the Tiger I just imagined the first song switching to the second one just as he hits her. Someone with editing experience please make that a thing. This is the first time I've heard anything about Afroman in years and I actually live in Palmdale. That was a great story. thanks :) If a fat geezer jumped on stage at a Beyonce concert and started rubbing his cock up against her arse, everyone would say it was justified if she slapped him. Change slapped to murdered. After the show. In his sleep. Someone needs to turn this into a Wasted gif Yiss, [I agree](http://media.giphy.com/media/N5PV3ZtZkvFks/giphy.gif).  Damnnnn i saw that just a little while ago and thought he was Afroman purely on his hair. Then i found out its the "Because i got high" guy and that he plays guitar. Word Hold on, Afroman is still performing? Apparently well enough to unintentionally summon women on stage. Yup. He does small venues and bars. Usually comes through my town once a year. Still puts on a hell of a show, even when he isn't bitch slapping people. What the fuck was he thinking??? He was gonna think, then he got high.. Yeah, he over did it^just^a^tat.. I still don't know how to do that.  'Creme frache'
 
You know that symbol on top of the "i"?
 
But that in between two^words. Thank^you \#SixAlbumsAndAMovie This isn't the darkest timeline, yay! *dankest No Sorry.  It's okay. Wait, is there a movie? It's a Community reference. Ah.  darn. I think there's actually a Plastic Beach "movie" if you haven't seen it.

Edit: Community is also great imo, zombie and 8-bit Chevy Chase were just phenomenal. Plastic Beach was originally a project called "Carousel", which was going to be a movie before Albarn and Hewlett decided to pare it back a bit and just release an album. You can hear it in the various demos and tracks for PB: a lot of them contain instrumental bits that would sound at home in a score (Orchestral Intro), and the lyrical content clearly echoes some of the tropes of songs from musicals (setting-establishment [Welcome to the Plastic Beach/White Flag, Melancholy Hill, Cloud of Unknowing], character-establishment [Rhinestone Eyes, Sweepstakes]), much more so than Demon Days. 

I wouldn't be surprised if we saw a Gorillaz movie before all was said and done. [The Phase 4 look so far](http://imgur.com/GWACtYa.jpg)
This awesome collage was created by  /user/chrews be sure to give him a big hand! The hype train has left the station. CHOO CHOO OH SHIT, WE'RE GOING IN HOT!
Edit: I guess you can say we're...

*Coming up on the overload.*

...I'll see myself out. *mic drop*
*glares from everybody create an almost palpable cloud of hate* 1 ticket, please. May I still board said train? There's another one arriving shortly. That's actually not the Phase 4 2D. Right, forgot to mention that. We're really on edge over at  /r/gorillaz waiting for these Haha, no biggie, but I figured I'd add a mention here in the bigger thread. Plus the two photos posted today share the same background. Jamie's working on a group piece that's being edited on a computer. you can see the LCDs in the image!
 I keep seeing Gorilla2 Phase  4. 2gorilla4me How many times? 3 Definitely not Phase 4 2-D. That was from a while ago I don't like Noodle's new look t-t What even happened in Phase 3? I feel like we never got enough of a storyline, as sparse as the other phases were. Yeah we didn't get a music video for Rhine stone eyes and then we got that video sponsored by a shoe company  If you watched the ident videos and looked closely at the music videos theirs a clear story, lot's of more detail can be found by reading online. The converse sponsored video was set after phase 3 really after they had recorded plastic beach I believe  AND Modest Mouse? I've died and gone back to college...
 Modest Mouse too? Holy shit.  Dude they already released a single and everything where have you been? They already released 2 singles, where have you been?

[Lampshades on Fire](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ztdoHfbTRsk)

[Coyotes](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UW5Or7bIVJk)
 This was my first thought too! I Feel Good. I've got sun shine in a bag  I'm useless  Butt not fur long My fewture Escominon Finally! Someone let me outta my cage. Now, time for me is nothin cause I'm countin no age! Naw you couldn't be there - naw you shouldn't be scared - I'm good at repairs - and I'm under each snare!

Intangible; bet you didn't think so I command you to- parnoramic view- look, I'll make it all manageble. Pick and choose, sit and lose, all you different crews. Chicks and dudes, who you really think is kickin' tunes?! Bitch, are you gettin' down in a picture tube? Like you lit the fuse! You think it's fictional? Mystical? Maybe. Spiritual. Hero who appears to you to clear your views when you're too crazy.

Lifeless: to know the definition for what life is.
Priceless: to you because I put you on the hype shit.
You like it? Gun smokin', righteous with one toke; you're psychic among those possess you with one go! No squealin', remember *that it's all in your head*.  &gt;that it's all in your head

He really sounds like he is talking in my head. It always gives me the chills.  Del the Funkee Homo Sapien is an amazing rapper. As a kid I was always scared shitless when this line came in You can thank fantastic production techniques for that, i think it's fuckin awesome.  ^^^ C-C-C-COMBO BREAKER!!!!! ^^^ I still can't follow exactly what Del's talking about, but that verse gives me chills. I always thought he was just describing the power of music, with Del "being" music in the song. Like I always took the first line to be saying that by Russel playing the drums (under each snare) Del, as music incarnate, has been freed (out of my cage) and can do his thing.  And what he does as music is heal (don't be scared, good at repairs).  

I think this is reinforced by Del's other verse.  For instance, "Rhythm - You have it or you don't that's a fallacy - I'm in them - Every sprouting tree - Every child of peace - Every cloud and sea".  Kinda seems to me like he is saying that music is a unifying force.

 awesome concise analysis You're kind of right. In the band backstory Russel is possessed by the spirits of his former gang members who died in a drive by. The ghost in the music video is those spirits literally leaving Russels head to rap to him.  Honestly always thought this song had something to do with herion. Sunshine in a bag is a synonym for herion, and that first verse sounds like it's describing it pretty well. Throw that in with the rest of the chorus and the general feel of the song and I'd have to disagree with you, though you make a good point. IMO:




The verse speaks about the subconcious of the mind, hence *finally someone let me out of my cage* tells of your persona hidden whitin yourself, thats why he is counting no age, his abstract persona does not mind of something like that, but more of that in a minute.





*Naw you couldnt be there* 




is the tipical response that  a person gets  when that little voice inside of our heads starts talking, is not someone else who is inside of me or is it?





*naw you shouldn't be scared - I'm good at repairs - and I'm under each snare!* 




you should not try and fear for the thoughts that wonder in your mind, because it is these, that help you reason and understand the troubles of your life, also help you get with the beat. Makes sense since drummer players ussually play instinctively, subconciously, when you paly the drumms (snare) your not thinking but feeling the beat. therefore using your subconcious.





*Intangible; bet you didn't think so I command you to* 
Here he orders you to view things from another perspective and apreciate all that your mind can offer 




*panoramic view- look, I'll make it all manageble.* 
the subconcious helps you understand and make a desicion: 
*Pick and choose, sit and lose, all you different crews. Chicks and dudes, who you really think is kickin' tunes?!* 




*Bitch, are you gettin' down in a picture tube?*
Picture tube is a television, and he is questioning wether you are going along the program society has placed in front of you




*Like you lit the fuse! You think it's fictional? Mystical? Maybe. Spiritual.*
You believe you started this thoughts? you did not, is not your imagination (fictional) is not something mistical but it is spiritual in nature





*Hero who appears to you to clear your views when you're too crazy.* 
When things are just too much for you to understand, it is your mind that helps you clear things, by the way of reason and understanding.




*Lifeless: to know the definition for what life is.* 
Here he tells you that you will not understand life until indeed you have died, a bit dark, but if you study esoterism and spiritualism, death is just another step in the process of ascencion.





*Priceless: to you because I put you on the hype shit. You like it? Gun smokin', righteous with one toke; you're psychic among those possess you with one go!* 
This to you is priceless, not because you understand the hidden meaning, but because is what everyone is listening (hype) however those who are in a higher state of Conscience, will be spychic among those who posses you or in other words, are in charge. 





Gorillaz uses alot of hidden esoteric meanings into their songs, much like tool, their music is pricesless art and will endure the end of time, the reason why you can listen to it after so many years, is because subconciously your mind can catch these meanings even tho your concious mind does not understand it.  Love your explanations!
Differ only on this one:

&gt; Lifeless: to know the definition for what life is. Here he tells you that you will not understand life until indeed you have died, a bit dark, but if you study esoterism and spiritualism, death is just another step in the process of ascencion.


To *know the definition of life* is to inherently not *understand* life. To understand life, you have live it and question your knowledge.  If you *know* the definition of life, you have given up the pursuit of knowledge &amp; living life: lifeless.  
 Thought it was "picture you getting down in a picture tube" The Essence, The Basics. Without Did You Make it - Allow Me to Make This - Child Like in Nature.  Rhythm: You Have It Or You Don't!--That's a FALLACY I'm in them; Every Sprouting Tree, Every Child of Peace, Every Cloud and Sea.  You See With Your Eyes, I See Destruction and Demise, Corruption in Disguise, from this Fuckin' Enterprise that I'm SUCKED into Your LIES-- Through Russell (Not his Muscles) But the Percussion he Provides!

For Me as a Guide. Y'all can See Me Now 'Cause You don't See with your Eye - You Perceive With Your Mind; That's the Inner

So I'mma Stick Around with Russ and Be a Mentor - Bust a few Rhymes so Motherfuckers Remember What the Thought Is: *I Brought All This - So You Could Survive, When Law Is Lawless.*

Feelings, Sensations that You Thought was Dead

No Squealin'

^*remember* ^*that* ^*it's* ^*all* ^*in* ^*your* ^*head* *picture you getting down in a picture tube  AAH AYYNT HAAAPPY Aim filling glad [deleted] Ahb jhuesless, budaahfalong, bmah fuchsia escominon escominon Velargablag iscominon^iscominon^iscominon ES KOMMT AUF! 10 spoons of spinach!  The soul and the spillage The cup that runneth ova Retoin of da Oguh!!!  Close your eyes and see when there aint no light I knew that I would now DO0, dodo do doo,doo^^feel ^^good Gorillaz were hugely influential on my taste in music growing up. s/t dropped when I was 13, *Demon Days* when I was 17. I love those records so much. God it's so common to see how much of an influence Demon Days was for everyone.  I will defend that album as my #1 till the day I die.  This news makes me feel all tingly. I'm excited. Plastic Beach was incredible. Demon Days is of course a masterpiece. Even as experimental and weird as Gorillaz was, I still love it. As far as I'm concerned they only make quality music I liked a lot of songs in the D-sides album. It gave me one of my favorite gorillaz songs, Hong Kong. Amazing song Those first words.

Looooooooord, here me now... Junk boats and English boys.  Crashing out in super marts Electric fences and guns [deleted] Yes! I had heard that version before. I didn't know if that was the one I'd listened too but it is. I just love his voice.

Have you heard his cover of The XX? [Gorillaz - Cover of The XX's "Crystalized"](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7CrahuW5fsc) If the voice is what does it for you, in the off chance that you aren't in the know, check out Damon Albarn's solo album. So fucking good. I listen to the self-titled album all the time. It came out when I was in 6th grade and I've loved them ever since. Every piece of theirs has hit a new chord for me. Incredibly excited for this news. Everyone always goes gaga over Demon Days(for good reason), but the first album is still my favourite.  The self titled wasn't that weird when it was released. Down tempo was probably at its peak at that point. Gorillaszhas always been amazing at portraying the cutting edge of pop with each album.  Am I the only one who didn't like PLastic Beach? I think it was just a massive departure in style and it threw me off. I loved Demon Days so much though, fantastic album.  I didn't like it initially, but to me, if their original album was the starting point stylistically, Demon Days took off in one direction from that. I see Plastic Beach as being the same distance in almost the opposite direction, which was jarring when I first heard it.

It's still not my favourite album, and I can't blame you if you find my explanation wanky and unsatisfying. I wanted The Fall to be another Plastic Beach level masterpiece, but it sure wasn't. The Fall wasn't really a full-on album. It was a concept album Damon made on an iPad while on tour. It's more of a side thing. With his iPad? *Fuck.* I guess I'm the asshole, then It was pretty fucking good for that tiny of a side-thing. I'm pretty sure it was over a two week span.  It was like 1 song a day for whatever city he visited. With an iPad, on a fucking tour bus. I think some people missed the concept of the Fall. It was very much an accidental album. But I actually really like the Fall. It's got some really cool sounds.  Yeah, it sort of was to Plastic Beach what G-sides and D-sides were to Gorillaz and Demon Days respctively, no?   Kind of. Both of the B-Sides albums were compilations of the B-Side tracks released with singles, but the Fall was all original songs. Take it how it is. It just seemed like a fun thing to do and he released it. I remember for the longest time I thought Laika Comes Home was a legitimate album before I figured out it was just a collection of B sides and shit.  I was already having a good day but this made my night!  Can you dig it like a spigot? My guess is yes you can like, can I kick it? wicked Who couldn't like Doom over a Gorillaz track?  the villain on a gorilla jawn? Something has started today All Caps when you spell the man's name.  How do people not know this by now? Because even his colleagues don't capitalize it. It looks really clunky and out of place whenever people type it and seems to me the only reason people do it is to show off that they're a fan. My favorite Gorillaz song! That makes this announcement all the more real, somehow. Liquor shot if you happy and you know it, as you clap your hands to the thick snot of a poet, flowin'. Liquor shot, if youre happy and you know it as you clap your hands to the thick snot of a poet flow it Hope u brought yo spare tweetas

Mcs sound like cheereleaders Does Phase 4 mean we're finally going to get a movie as well? I've been waiting for that since I was 11.
This is still amazing news. I was so bummed thinking The Fall was the last album. The movie would be perfect.   Firing up some DELTRON 3030 in preparation and the autttommmattoorrr He's on the planet Earth and he's gonna stop the war of the worlds. Were Del, Kid Koala, or Automator involved since the first album? I believe they were only a part of the first album. Demon Days was produced by Danger Mouse.  Thank goodness. I heard they were going extinct. I hope elephants and tigers bounce back as well. I'm looking forward for some new species to evolve out of those innovative sons of bitches.  If people evolved from monkeys, why are there still monkeys ? Because fire is coming out of their heads. The mountain, called monkey, has spoken! Cause theyre caught up with the conflict between their brain and their tail. OH MY GOD DUUDE. ITS A LOGIC LOOP! IT GOES IN CIRCLE AND CIRCLES IT GOES IN CIRCLES AND CIRCLES MONKEY WHY? MONKEY WHY? MONKEY WHY YOU STILL AROUND? [............](http://d1w7nqlfxfj094.cloudfront.net/wp-content/uploads/2013/01/homer-simpson-bush-gif.gif) *random birdo appears* &lt;3 If Americans evolved from the Brits, then why are there still Brits? &gt; evolved

Haha [Tigers are making a comeback actually](http://news.nationalgeographic.com/news/2012/12/121228-tigers-big-cats-animals-science-conservation-asia/) I know! I'm hoping they concentrate on their outfield this year. They have a solid infield but the errors last year killed their momentum. Ausmus knows what he's doing. I'm sure he'll setup the ol' Detroit Tigers for success next season.   This is awesome news of course but is anyone really surprised? I mean that's pretty much been their pattern right?

First big album Gorillaz was in 2000, Next was Demon Days in 2005, then Plastic Beach in 2010, Then The Fall (hesitant to count this one as it was composed as a side project during their tour), so it only makes sense that the next one would come out five years later right?  Well, after The Fall came out, Damon and Jamie had a falling out, and It appeared that we wouldn't get anything from the pair again. Even after they made up, it was still unclear if they would make another album together. If new project is produced by danger mouse I will *literally* cry I'd literally weep with happiness if another Del feature happens. Even more if another DOOM feature happens!

Who else do you think would fit well? They always have the most random features (Super Furry Animals, DOOM, Snoop, De La Soul, Bobby Womack, Little Dragon) but they all work so fucking well. Little Dragon was fucking masterful. All aboard the hype train! Setting off from the Plastic Beach! (Don't question the physics)

 IT'S A SEA TRAIN No, a Ghost Train. Everything leading up to Gorillaz was such a Blur Song 2 on repeat  Fun fact: It's called Song 2 because Blur was making fun of the fact that most American singles on the radio were the second track of the albums they came from. They made a song imitating their view of the songs that plauged American radio stations that all sounded the same. As it turns out, it became their most popular song.  Is Song 2 really more popular than Coffee and TV?  In America, by far. PARK LIFE Tragically obscure in North America.  American Blur fan here. Americans will recognize "Song 2" (more commonly known as "the woohoo song"), most will not have any idea who Blur is. Fans of Gorillaz should try 13 by Blur. The album tracks are deep, spacey and possibly their finest work.  Yeah I love this album! So many good tracks, and quite trippy.

I also really enjoyed The Great Escape. But they will know a gorillaz song, so when you tell them it's the same guy from "the woohoo song," their minds explode. &gt; /r/gorillaz
it was the good the bad and the queen Wow. I never made that connection. Crazy I never noticed that one. http://i.imgur.com/omauEx8.jpg

Calvin and Hobbes mashup I doodled in illustrator senior year....my aunt cleaned it up and printed it on a t shirt  Im so about to get a tattoo of this If you do...SEND ME A PIC! That's be freakin awesome! If you want I can send you the original doodle, it looks crappy, like I said t aunt fixed it up. She's a graphic designer Finally someone let them out of their cage! Time for us is somethin', cuz we're countin' our age. =( Please please please please PLEASE have Dan the Automator involved This is probably a coincidence but The Gorillaz were my little brother's favorite band. He passed away two years ago to the day. He had always wanted to see them live but never got to.. Crazy that this was announced today.  Sorry for your loss. Maybe you should consider going in honor? I'm best friends with my brother and this is our favorite band. I can't image what you went through, but I feel like this comment resonates with me in a certain way enough to post this... definitely go to a show in his honor if you're ever able to! Apparently there was an album after Plastic Beach. Not sure how I missed that. A kind-of album. More of a side project.   It was to Plastic Beach as G-sides was to Gorillaz or D-sides to Demon Days, a side thing. I'm so fucking happy right now I could stub my toe on a coffee table made of legos and it still wouldn't ruin my mood  You just went full super Saiyan dude  you're invincible  Agreed... I'm laid out in bed with a torn muscle in my neck, yet somehow this is a great day! Be cool if Del collab'd on the new album.  http://www.wonderingsound.com/hieroglyphics-del-funky-homosapien-souls-mischief-tajai-interview-ferguson-damon-albarn-death-grips/

"Del: Yeah, Ive been out with Damon Albarn. I talked to him on the bus, and he was like  the Gorillaz stuff was almost accidental, so he was like, basically, What if we really did it on purpose, what could we come up with? Hes a cool dude. We were on the bus chatting or whatever, behind stage, before the show. We really like each other, so he was like, Yeah, lets try to hook up and do some stuff. So yeah, thats a big possibility."
 That was the first thing that popped into my head too. I'm hoping Del and Automator both get in on this. Those two working together can do no wrong.  Possibly an unpopular opinion, but Melancholy Hill was my favorite. Always excited to see new music from bands I grew up with. Not close to an unpopular opinion, but yes - Melancholy Hill is a brilliant song. I'm happy, feeling glad!  As much as I want Blur to make a new album, I know they want to pull a RATM move and perform their greatest hits instead of making new tracks. Gorillaz though, they cover a wide range of genres, it`s expected they release new material. Don't stop. Get it, get it. Holyyy FUCK YES! I am excited.  [Here's the working version of the link if OP's didn't work for you](http://pitchfork.com/news/58282-gorillaz-creator-jamie-hewllet-confirms-groups-return-on-instagram/).  So HYPED! Now this is good news! YAY Aww yiss... Wow, that is surreal. I literally just woke up an hour ago from a dream that they'd released a new music video. http://i.imgur.com/t3vdt2h.gif?gifm Creator confirms group return... on instagram. I look forward to grooving So warm, so fuzzy, so happy. Coming on to the overload YES. Love me some Gorillaz. Fantastic artists.  Fuck yes When they referred to the fall being the last album.... C'mon that hardly counts
 Had no idea they went somewhere This is fantastic news. AAAAAAAAAAAAAAAH OH MY GOD Now this really "Feel Good Inc."  Fuck yes!! Finally! Man I'm so ready. ALL ABOARD THE HYPE TRAIN Yeayesyesyesyesyesyesyesyesyesyesyesyesyesyesyesyesyesyesyesyesy!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!$@&amp;#+$&amp;@+#+!!!!!!!!! I first read this as, "Godzillas are back."
Sorry Japan i hope they go back to a sound more like they did in demon days rather than plastic beach and the fall it is mostly that they are lacking in vocals i miss with there later stuff. Excuse me while I go lose my shit. Here's hoping for another Demon Days rather than The Fall. Allow me to make this child-like in nature:

Gorillaz, you have them or you don't. 

That's a fallacy.  I think the most important thing about the first two albums was that they each had a really strong Hip Hop producer behind them. I hope they get someone strong to do some work on the next one. I was just not interested in Plastic Beach at all, personally.


How about Run the Jewels? No A Flying Lotus/Captain Murphy collab would literally be perfect Even though I love RTJ, I don't think their style would quite match up with the Gorillaz. If Killer Mike and/or El-P show up on a Gorillaz track it might just be amazing. I would love to listen to that track if it ever released. Saw them in Denver last night.  
So. Fucking. Good.  Hewlett's been tied up with the return of Tank Girl for the past year or so (my book from the kickstarter arrived today!), but I'm glad he's returning to this.  There was a tank girl reboot? Yep. It was a kickstarter last year. Ended up going WELL over the funding too. Hopefully this means more. This band has become my all-time favourite band. I'm not just saying that. I pride myself on having a large music vocabulary ranging from classical to jazz to rap to oldies to soul and folk, but the Gorillaz themselves are so great because of the variety of amazing sounds they can make, while keeping their own uniqueness.
Favourite Songs: November Has Come, To Binge, Melancholy Hill

*Keep looking out on the day of another dream,* folks *When you can't get what you want, but you can get me* /r/iamverysmart FINALLY, SOMEONE LET THEM OUT OF THEIR CAGE.  Please tour. Please tour. Please tour. This news made me all giddy inside.  Yes. I had a shit day today. [BUT THIS IS TOTALLY WICKED!](https://m.youtube.com/watch?v=TiWg7L0NJYU) Does your username ever work? Fuck yea! What are the best songs by the Gorillaz?

The ones I know I like are: "Feel Good, Inc", "Melancholy Hill", "Dare", "Clint Eastwood", and (to a lesser extent) "19-2000" Some other cool ones are Superfast Jellyfish, Pirate Jet, Punk, Latin Simone (the spanish version, the english version on D-sides isn't so great), and check out the entire Laika Come Home album.

And yes, Empire Ants fuckin rules. Superfast Jellyfish and Pirate Jet are two of my favourite songs to come from Plastic Beach. Some really good jams are "M1-A1", "November Has Come", "Bobby in Phoenix", "Empire Ants", and "Dirty Harry". Listen to them now. "Empire Ants" featuring Little Dragon (on their Plastic Beach album), "Tomorrow Comes Today", "Don't Get Lost in Heaven" which transitions into "Demon Days" as well as "Dirty Harry" are good too. Left hand Suzuki method and m1a1.. You Missed El Manana and Spitting Out The Demons. They might be fake. They might be lies. They might be big big fake fake lies. Tabloid footprints in your hair.   Tabloid footprints everywhere.  WE CANT BE SILENT CUZ THEY MIGHT BE GIANTS! What are we gonna do unless they are? I guess we'll probably just have to be in a road movie to Berlin. Friendly hijack of your comment to say: 

Please come join us in **/r/tmbg**! They might be giant lies. This is a ~~brand~~ new record, for ~~1990~~ 2015, They Might Be Giants ~~Brand~~ New Album, "Flood". Flooooooooooooooooooooooooooood Blue canary in the outlet by the lightswitch who watches over you!  Build a little birdhouse in your soul.  http://www.thinkgeek.com/product/e791/ I actually have this. No, really...

http://i.imgur.com/BEbQrvS.jpg I do too!  Bought it before it got on Think Geek.  /Canary hipster Yeah. I got mine on Amazon, dammit. 

http://i.imgur.com/f2qr1Um.jpg

edit: not by the light switch :( thats too awesome I also have this! And have for several years.

Also, one of my very first AOL screen names was StopRockVideo(s? I can't remember) and you're making me weirdly nostalgic. Beautiful trombone quartet on that. Before anyone asks why the track list backward, consider where they recorded it. When I saw them perform Flood live in 2008, they said they played some of the songs out of order, because the different instrumentation and tuning for each song wouldn't allow the show to flow as well if they played in album order. When Ben Folds Five reunited to perform Reinhold Messner in its entirety, Folds said "If I'd've known about this reunion ten years ago, I would have sequenced the album differently."

Which is weird to consider, because when I was a kid I always thought that an "album launch" was where you went to hear the band play the album from start to finish so that you could decide whether or not you wished to purchase it. They did Reinhold Messner live recently??  Man, I love that album but that seems like an odd (but awesome) choice. It was a few years ago now, but same sentiment expressed. It was recorded [for MySpace](https://myspace.com/fronttoback/videos), but the video is no longer available on their site. Go figure. A copy of it [is available on Vimeo](https://vimeo.com/8049120) however courtesy of the film crew. bitchin! Caught a Flood show a couple years ago.  Flans explained that albums are sequenced to put the most catchy, likely-to-be-popular songs up front.  He said that, to help build anticipation for the big hits (Birdhouse, track 2; Istanbul, track 4; Particle Man, track 7), they'd be playing it in reverse.  And they did. Exit wound in a foreign nation, showing the home of the one this was written for. That's LINCOLN. God, get your albums straight! Some TMBG fan YOU ARE.

*/sarcasm - i'm not just an asshole* 
&gt;*/sarcasm - i'm not just an asshole*

You're other things, too? and don't forget that water spirals the wrong way down the sink Who was at the DuPont Pavilion? Why was the bench still warm?! WHO HAD BEEN THERE?! Or the time that the storm tangled up the wire to the horn on the pole at the bus depot. And in back of the edge of hearing These are the words that the voice was repeating: Ana Ng and I are getting old and we still haven't walked in the glow of each other's majestic presence.  Listen Ana hear my words They're the ones you would think I would say if there was a me for you When I was driving, once, I saw this painted on a bridge: I DON'T WANT THE WORLD   
I JUST WANT YOUR HALF Nah, I think they just like playing it backwards. I saw them live in Vancouver several years ago and they played it backwards then too. I kinda like it better that way, saves the best for last. I was at that Vancouver show. Didn't they (basically) say it was because they would be starting off the show with their most famous song and it would be better to end it with that song. They didn't say those words but that was the connotation I got from what they said. 

The version of Istanbul and Particle Man that the played at that show was fucking wicked!  They have kind of a live zydeco version of Particle Man on Severe Tire Damage that I love. 

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RGhnECuKKak&amp;list=PLN65bF7v1CsJgxXTeFCiNoBwbQZqkzMvh&amp;index=12 Same experience here when I saw them in Florida.  And we know that Florida isn't backwa... oh, shit. Flood album new brand Giants Be Might They 1990 for record new brand the it's ?up rising levels ocean the are why ?hand-in-hand marching we are why ?again love in world the is why That took me longer to get than I'd like to admit. Good to know! Thanks! When was this recent tour of Australia and why didn't I know about it?! They played the whole album backwards in Des Moines in 2013. (Edited because words are hard.) It's a little known fact that the seventh TMBG album, Long Tall Weekend, is known to hardcore fans as "the while album" (a play on "white album") because it was the first exclusively Internet release of an album by a major label band, meaning people could listen to it while they were at their computers. I was at that show! Either right before, or right after Join Us! they toured with the Flood in reverse show. It was fun, they did a puppet show and played a little chat roulette. Can confirm, i do the things a particle can I hate you. I am a triangle.  Well I'm a universe And yet he still wins... Triangle man So, when you're underwater do you get wet or does the water get you instead? nobody knows Hm, I've not listened to They Might Be Giants before. This seems like a good place to start. great band, iv been listening to them my whole life, not to impressive considering im 17. I disagree. It just shows they appeal to a large audience. I'm about to be 39, myself. (Don't spread it around) 48y/o here. I bought this when it first came out - I was 23.

I bought it on cassette. It quickly became my favourite album of all time. Holy geez, I just realized this is the 25th anniversary of that cd. I suddenly feel way older than i should. Lol

A buddy of mine at the time introduced me to them in about 1991. I've seen them live twice now and own just about everything they've released. Even my username is a reference to the music video for Birdhouse In Your Soul. I got everything they did through the 90's, but Flood was head and shoulders the best for me. I've bought it in every format possible over the years.

TMBG were/are intelligent, a bit surreal and have well crafted lyrics which goes against the anti-intellectualism of just about everything else in music. I think my favorite thing about TMBG are their penchant for combining peppy, catchy music with dark, almost morbid visuals in their lyrics. It's easy to miss, but they often include an undercurrent of tragedy. They'll Need A Crane, for instance, is a light pop song which seems to be about an old man who needs to tear down the house he built for his wife who has either died or left him. My Man is a cheerful sounding pop tune about a man being told he'll probably never walk again.

If you listen carefully, their catalog is full of songs like this.  One of our faminly faves was 'Why Does The Sun Shine?'

We would play it in the car on repeat, our kids learned it by heart. 

And our son (21) still breaks into song with this one. It also gave him a real interest in physics at school. Are you aware that years later they would write a sequel to that song?(Correcting for new science)

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sLkGSV9WDMA We have Here Comes Science, Here Come the ABCs and Here Come the 123s. My husband and I enjoy them as much as our preschooler, and they all came with DVDs of the music videos. I realized just this evening I was driving the car alone, and I still had the CD on, and I didn't care because they're awesome. Yeah I saw that when it came out.

Just another reason to love TMBG - scientific integrity. You should totally listen to Nanobots then. It's my second favorite album of theirs, right under Flood. Has it been that long? Damn I feel old. I just realized how long it's been since the one time I saw them live. We brought the kids, who are grown up now.  I bought this when it first came out, on Edison cylinder. Ha!

But, seriously, are you aware they actually DID record a song on a wax cylinder at the Edison Laboratory? (I apologize in advance if this is what you are referencing)

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RY7OWOUKH0k 47 here, and this album was absolutely huge for me and my peeps in the day. I recall drunkenly declaring *Flood* to be the best album of the 1990s at a 1990 New Year's party. It stayed in my heavy rotation for years. As I type my original CD is in my car, still in rotaion (yeah, I still play actual CDs in the car). 

My children are now TMBG fans by way of their awesome *Here Comes Science* album, and my five year old daughter and I sing Particle Man and Istanbul together from time to time.   Flood is my second favorite album.  I think Apollo 18 edges it out for first place. 52 and still playing the CD when I'm at my girlfriend's place cos she bought it when it came out. I think its time I gave something back and downloaded this free album. &gt;I'm about to be 39, myself.

Me too! 76?

 Yepper! :) Go bicentennial! My mom always said I was her bicentennial contribution. I think it was a cop out so she didn't have to do anything. Oh, she clearly did SOMETHING. Lol Same man. I'm 18 and my Dad used to play Birdhouse in your Soul all of the time when I was a little girl. Tried to tell me there was literally a bird in my body. Freaked me the fuck out as a little kid. Great band though, I will be a fan until the day I die. same, i recently saw them at the crystal ball room here in portland And I'm 16. Don't know why I still listen to them. The first album I listened to was "Here Comes Science" that my teacher showed at school and I explored the other albums from there on. Their live instrumentation almost always differs from the original album recordings due to their use of lots of electronics and sampling, especially on their 90's era stuff. But, it does seem like they tried to get as close as they could on this one.  That said, if you like the live stuff, you'll probably love their albums. :) I do enjoy live stuff! I don't listen to that many live albums, but some of my favourite versions of songs (like Pushit by Tool) are live versions. I haven't got round to listening to Flood yet but I'm looking forward to it :) This is like hearing someone say "You HAVEN'T SEEN FIREFLY BEFORE?"

I so want to hear this the first time again.  I bought this album when I heard "Constantinople" on Jay Leno for the first time. Very good place to start. heh, funny story, i got fired from a job once in the early nineties for erasing the owner's bullshit feel good "quote of the day" chalkboard and writing "Now it's over and I haven't done anything that I want, or I'm still alive and there's nothing I want to do"

edit: Wow my first reddit gold! who'd have thought a shitty job in a plastics factory would lead to such glorious heights!

Edit 2: I'm genuinely touched by the amount of compassion I was shown from this one comment.  Thank you guys so much it really made my week! That quote, that lyric is quite profound.

But to edit yours it goes - "Now its over, **I'm dead** and I haven't done anything that I want"...

The "I'm dead" bit is kinda important. haha yeah and i'm pretty sure i put the correct quote up on the chalkboard, it was a long time ago. the im dead part is super important.  hehe, probably what lead to the firing lecture where they told me i was writing disturbing messages.   Well played, sir! I mean, except for the whole getting fired, thing. Unless it was a crappy job, in which case, well played, sir! yeah it was, working on an assembly line drenched in toxic chemicals for 4.60 an hour.  the quote definately fit the mood of the place. Where in the world did you work? Minimum wage used to be crazy low, at least where I lived. The Springfield Nuclear Power Plant.  ^*ahem*

**MINIMUM WAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAGE!  YEA!** I always heard it as a cowboy smacking his horse and saying, "HYAAAH!" I reckon it's a whip cracking. "GET BACK TO WORK!" It's definitely a whip, but people do whip horses, so... THAT'S WHAT I THOUGHT TOO!  But I wasn't sure how I should spell it out, so I googled it, and the few things that came up just said "Yea." Seems like a good time to post their [awesome, awesome performance on the Tonight Show](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=o6WKE4aYgOw) (Carson-era, but guest hosted by Leno on this particular night) backed by Doc Severinsen and the Tonight Show orchestra. And somehow it still costs twice as much as the American release. Well, I definitely read that as a release of their "seminal fluid." I'm done for today.  In retrospect, I could probably have chosen a less distracting term. That's what she said. I definitely read that too. I was like, "Wait, this isn't Metallica's *Load*." [like a Flood of guilt](http://i.imgur.com/YxvNxpj.png) That's excellent :3 Excellent album. Excellent band. Not enough albums have their own theme songs these days. If you liked this, they also released the first album live, also for free [link](http://www.theymightbegiants.com/firstalbumlive/).

Of course, you can listen to the original album any time you like on spotify and practically every album is streamable on the bands official YT [channel](http://www.youtube.com/user/ParticleMen) I knew about this, but I figured they had taken the link down. Thanks! I'd like them to do Apollo 18 backwards... I don't know, if you play fingertips backwards, it doesn't really make any sense. Fingertips makes sense to you? What do you think it's about then? No kidding, I have read interpretations of "Fingertips" that say the different parts represent stages of life. Probably could find it on the TMBWiki. That's what I want to hear. I could have sworn I had a live version of Fingertips somewhere in my collection but, alas, I cannot locate it. :/

Edit: Would you accept, instead, some adorable school children singing and animating Particle Man?

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QPI7ka0MiAA They did Fingertips at their [NPR Tiny Desk concert](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=52tp2B4YR_c). I found a new friend underneath my pillow.  Please pass the milk please.

Please pass the milk please.

Please pass the milk please. Come on, and wreck my car.  Boy, Flans holds his guitar weird. This is excellent! Thank you! They did Fingertips at a TED presentation as well!
https://www.ted.com/talks/they_might_be_giants_play_at_8_30_am?language=en
Starts at 9 minutes. Fingertips is on Alamanac Live-2004. :) It's a great recording, too. Minimum Waaaaaaaage... **Hya!** *whip crack Going to plug /r/tmbg ! They have other great albums too. how quietly was it released? is it loud enough for people with normal, human ears to hear it? This is the goddamn greatest thing to happen to me since they released this album in 1990!  Thank you TMBG, and thanks /u/Stop_Rock_Video for posting this! They sound just as good vocally and musically as they did way back when. They are extremely underrated IMO. Anyone else get introduced to this album through Tiny Toons? I remember seeing the episode and then begging my mom to take me to the mall so I could spend my allowance on a Flood cassette tape. I came back a bag of groceries / 

accidentally taken off the shelf / 

before the date stamped on my saaack / 

...

Now it's over and I'm dead and I haven't done anything I want /

Or I'm still alive and there's nothing that I want to dooooooo... I'm pretty sure it's "self" (not "sack"), you know, to rhyme with "shelf." I just sang it to myself in my head and I'm remembering it as "sack" too. I guess I'm going to have to look up the lyrics now.

Edit: Nope, you're right. I think I've been hearing it wrong for 25 years. I didn't apologize for when I was 8 and I made my younger brother have to be my personal slave. I will never say the word procrastinate again! One of my favorite songs. There are days when that last verse hits a little too close to the feels.  They've got a lot of great, clever lyrics like that.

"If it wasn't for disappointment, I wouldn't have any appointments"    

Turning to drugs to help you sleep will only lead to sleep... And sleeping is the gateway drug to bring awake again."    

"I hope that I get old before I die" mmmm seminal flood  What's that blue thing doing here? "Dead" is such a good song. TMBG is releasing one new song every Tuesday this year as part of their revived Dial-A-Song service along with a brand new album and a children's album. So glad to see them on the front page. Best Johns I've ever known Why is the world in love again? Why do they go marching hand in hand? Why are the ocean levels rising up? It's a brand new (?) record! From 1990! They Might be Giants' brand new album... Flooooooooooood! They Might Be Giants' brand new album

FLOOOOOOD! Probably because they just got a free TMBG album. Going to see them in April here in Cleveland. I must have burnt through 2-3 cassettes of Flood back in '90. Beginning to end, one of the best albums ever.

Can't shake the Devil's hand and say you're only kidding... There are some great lines in Your Racist Friend. I feel like that's one of their songs that draws from a real life situation.

"I know politics bore you, but I feel like a hypocrite talking to you and your racist friend." Love it. You were downvoted by a racist, it seems. It's to be expected. Lol I grew up on this album. My stepdad used to play it in the car when I was a little kid and I learned every word to every song by the time I was 5. I still love it as much today as I did then. I'm pretty stoked about this. downloading this now, nice 

 I used to be an Enlgish teacher in Korea (still am, sort of), and I never heard of this band before I used them in class. If I can find a song on the language point I was teaching (eg. figure 8 for directions, I never go to work for the days of the week), I knew that was half of my work done for me. This band is an anomoly. It seemed like they were making these songs with teachers in mind--well maybe not exactly but at least they made them with kids in mind. Their songs are great! And they bring delightful memories of the classroom. Thank you for posting this! This takes me back.  Summer of 1995, recent 8th grade graduate, I bought this as the very first CD I ever purchased for myself with my own money. Still have that actual CD. Oh the feels. lets take a ride in my eleeeectric caaar My fianc and I saw TMBG live for the first time when they were on this Australian tour. We saw them 10 times across 7 cities and it was the best thing ever.  I can't stop smiling while listening to this. My first concert was a TMBG concert... wait. maybe it was the Beach Boys. That was with my parents so it doesn't count.  I used the lyrics of Racist Friend to teach my kids about standing up for what's right in an articulate and polite way.  You had me on "for free". Every Tuesday, TMBG releases a new recording at TMBG Dial-A- Song - http://dialasong.com/ I'll raise a paw to that. Well that will make it much more attainable for people making (badda ba badda ba) minimum waaaaaaaaaage.  Hyeaah! Is the Mickey Mouse Clubhouse song included as a bonus track? It is on Here Come the 123s. I get Hot Dog stuck in my head all the time. Number Two always gets me. Children's albums shouldn't be that good.  I actually get the whole album cycling through my head. I'll start out singing Zeros, and then 10 minutes later realize I'm singing Triops Had Three Eyes. no This is one of my favorite albums ever. Going to see these guys in a few months, so excited. They really put on a great show. Prepare for puppets, crowd participation, and general insanity. See how many times you can catch Marty Beller NOT smiling. It's a trick! It's really Whitney Houston on the drums!  "Great!!! I love free stuff and am so happy when entertainers step out of the box like this"
 
&gt;&gt; Provide email

"THIS IS WHAT SNOWDEN TRIED TO STOP!!!" I kind of doubt TMBG is planning to sell your secrets to the govt, in spite of their ringtone...

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=z32-eLOoAUU There's a million options for disposable email addresses. This is just too effin weird, man...I write military history [proof](http://ifyebreakfaith.blogspot.ca/) and decided to do a post on the Gallipoli campaign for its hundredth anniversary. Of course, the objective of this campaign, a particular Turkish city which has since been renamed, caused a certain TMBG song to be stuck in my head since yesterday, and now, here this is...like I said, weird, man, weird. One of us. :| Awesome! These guys are just the best. I've been loving the weekly Dial-A-Song posts on Youtube. This just made my day!!!!

Enjoy your gold.  Late to the post but do we know where they recorded it??? like which city in Australia? 

...(Fingers crossed for sydney)...  YEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEESS Quietly Quiets quietly releases quietness quietly. I saw one of their shows in Australia with a friend when I had never heard of them before.  Although their musical style is not my taste, they're are good if you like that kind of music and from what I observed they are pretty friendly people.  Blue canary in the outlet by the light switch... http://i.imgur.com/BEbQrvS.jpg Hehe! I got one of those for my sister for Christmas a couple years back! Birthday present from my gal... came along with concert tickets.

Yeah, I'm pretty lucky that way. :) Pretty sure real giants can't do anything quietly. Therefore I must assume that They Are Most Likely Not Giants. But, what are we gonna do unless they are? I notice that the ringtone d/l is broken now. Why is the world in love again? Lots of great songs on this album. I was about 13 when it came out, and I listened to it thousands of times. 

*Road Movie to Berlin* is the song that has really stuck with me from Flood.  This is fantastic!  Made my day
 "Safari cannot download this file" :(  Try Chrome? :/ Do they explain why Constantinople got the works? They played the Flood album twice on this tour, I was at one of them. Does anyone know which show this is from? Upvote for punctuation. Well, way to ruin the whole "quiet" thing The first CD I ever owned, just in case you were wondering.  I'm doing karaoke on Friday and I'll make sure to do Birdhouse In Your Soul in celebration of this awesome release. Not quiet anymore op. Way to go I saw They Might Be Giants at Gen Con in Milwaukee a while ago.  They opened the show with Dr. Worm.  Then, because they wanted to, they ended the show with Dr. Worm.  Sounds about right. Yes. No. Maybe. Can you repeat the question? My oldest brother got me to listen to them when I was a wee lad.  And like many younger brothers think, I thought everything my brother did was the coolest.  That was maybe 16 years ago and I haven't stopped listening to TMBG.

Also, I remember watching Tiny Toons with their video of Particle Man years before that.  Everytime I hear that song I see Plucky swimming and getting a bucket of water tossed into his face. Oooh shiny. Why would they record in Australia? We only just upgraded to cassette tape technology.

Hopefully this telegram arrives while this submission is still current. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TkVHdUkMJdk Honestly I prefer the existing album versions to any of these live recordings.

Still good of TMBG to release them freely though.

(Not a fan of taking email addresses though. Long live mailinator.com) not too quiet now, is it?
 I used to torture the fuck outta my metalhead sister with this tape. Yes, tape. 

Come to think of it, I got it for free the first time around. Gather 'round, kiddies, and I'll tell you how we used to pirate music in the old days... Every once in a while a band comes along that changes the course of human history, and that band is They Might be Giants Flight in a few hours. Reddit has impeccable timing once a again. Illneverknowwhatyoullfindinyourletterboxtomorroooooow......... CuzthelittlebirdnevertellsmeanythingIwannaknowshe'smybestfriendshe'sasparroooooow... Andillneverneverknowwhatyouneverwannaknowwhenyoufindwhatyouareoooooooooo!!!! Free? I said.  And then I saw concert dates.  Now I have a 4 day Chicago vacation planned.  Free my ass. Wow, that's awesome! Enjoy the show!  Serious question- both were sold out shows, how do the promoters not foresee this?  And wouldn't Chris brown have just lost a bunch of money? He seems so nonchalant about it Public image. Nothing good would come from going on a social media tirade angrily denouncing Canadian customs. Oh I can guarantee he and his management staff are angry but you can't show that on Twitter else it will seem like that's your official stance.

Like how Felix da Housecat [recently shat on some club all over Twitter](http://www.factmag.com/2015/02/21/felix-da-housecat-denied-entry-berghain-unleashes-rant-twitter/) for not letting him in on the grounds that he's a famous DJ and he got a lot of flak for posting his angry behavior. I understood 30% of what he was typing.  CHICAGO AND DETROIT BUILT BERLIN. HOUSE MUSIC. BLACK MAN. 

Does that help clarify?  "Can I get in here?"
"No"
"Oh, so I'm a niggerr now?!" The double r. No one will notice now There was also the fairly recent incident where 'concious' musician and man of the people, Tom Morello, threw a fit as he couldn't get VIP service at some restaurant.

We don't know all the details, but it really did look quite bad, as he is trying to promote equality and all that, then complaining when he, the great guitarist, cannot get a table. Just came across as a real asshole. Yeah, that was the 5 Point Cafe in Seattle.  The place was at capacity, there was a line to get in, and he threw a hissy fit when his group were turned down for immediate seating after he played a benefit at a nearby venue.  Called them "anti-worker" on Twitter - a place that pays better than other local small restaurants and offers health insurance, paid sick days, paid time off, retirement and profit share. 

Sounds like a typical "Don't you know who I am?" douche. I lost a lot of respect for him, I hope it was just a momentary lapse of judgement. Killing his career in the name of.  Or the dude from Rage Against the Machine who got mad when a local pub wouldn't make people leave so there was room for him?  So he took to Twitter to call out the place, calling them "anti-worker".  Turns out, the owner is one of the people pushing $15 minimum wage in Seattle and his workers are taken care of well.  

http://www.thewrap.com/rage-against-the-machine-guitarist-tom-morello-gets-served-by-seattle-restaurant-owner-on-facebook/ That is an astounding level of ignorance coming from one person. That article reads like YouTube comments. "Chicago and Detroit made your little city (Berlin)" 

Wat Exactly. I mean, he has already shown an astounding lack of accountability for his behavior, so it really wouldbe bad PR for him.  I dont htink he cares. Perhaps he's simply older now nad more mature and realizes this shit happens, and its his managements fault not canada's I read in the other thread he was to pissed to get in.

Also it's one of the hardest places to get into in Berlin. Man Felix went off. Just when I thought he would be finished he just kept going and going and going. They must have REALLY hurt his feelings. I don't believe Chris Brown cares about public image, he did beat a woman.  Chris Brown has no chill, though. I'm sure he'll be tweeting about this in a very immature manner sometime today. It's all relative I suppose. It's not a lot in terms of how much he makes. Also, part of the whole bravado of rap/r&amp;b acts is to pretend you don't care about stuff Also better not to bring up any reason why or get too upset about it...no good can come from it.

"Damn Canadians wouldn't let me in the country" 

Why not Chris?  Is it because you have a criminal record for beating up your girlfriend and you didn't file any paperwork to get a waiver so this is entirely your fault?

"...."

Better to just accept it and move on with his life. Screw Chris town's money, I was supposed to work the venue today and I lost money. The promoters will have insurance for this very situation and will protect them against any losses due to refunds, venue expenses, equipment rental, etc.

This was a fuck-up by Brown's manager, not anyone else (well beside browns crimal record fuck-up). If he had the proper paperwork filed in advance, he would have entered Canada with no real delay. They may have had insurance. What you doin standin outside the country?  

*You can't even get IN*

-chuckle snort lego Yellow Lamborghini Can only hear peter griffin. Tried to sing this line next.... the cadence was a bit off to say the least They're pretty strict about letting US citizens with a 'record' in. If you've got a DUI, even, it's really hard to get across the border.  He most likely would have been allowed entry if he or is manager filed the appropriate paperwork and got a waver ahead of time. Always do your homework if you have any criminal charges before tryingto enter another country, otherwise you will have a bad time. A million times this.  Plenty of musicians get into Canada with criminal records.  But they apply well in advance and get the proper waiver.  If there's a surprise at the border, it's because your manager fucked up. Or because you're a wide bear. 

Edit: phone auto corrected wife beater to wide bear.  Excellent typo. I'm now imagining Candian authorities refusing entry to overweight bears similar to bouncers and the red rope line at bars. Stop fat shaming our bears! It's all that free maple syrup they have access to. it's obviously genetics
 [Obviously](http://memecollection.net/wp-content/uploads//2013/10/this-is-where-keep-my-genetics.jpg) We have a reputation to maintain, we can't let all the sub-par sloppy looking bears come in just like that. Or because the bear literally can't fit through the border turnstile I am using this phrase from now on. Wide bears are the worst sort and should be jailed. "Sorry man, It's already a salmon fest in there..."  That's why Bieber got all those DUIs... Now we are stuck with him because we can't send him back. He is a Canadian citizen.  They *have* to take him back if we tell him to GTFO. What if he were to become a wide bear? That is a trickier situation.  How wide are we talking here?  If he gets too wide, he won't fit across the border.  They also apparently don't want wide bears up north. We don't want him back. Try Mexico insread. Ya I sorta interned for a touring company (talk about credentials!) and almost any artist who has had a DUI couldn't play Canada if it was a fairly last minute date booked ( even like 6 or 9 months out). Paperwork is a long ass bitch to get allowed in and still not garunteed. Can't recall specific artist, but HUGE country act had to cancel all dates too for dui &gt; Can't recall specific artist, but HUGE country act

Dolly Parton? (   ) Kenny Rogers? My buddy with a DUI didn't do any preperation and he got in for his show. It was months after. Maybe it didnt migrate to whatever database they use. I dunno. They can't feasibly check all people who cross the border. If they do check, they will stop you though. 

It also cancels out after 10 years. Yeah I hear there are 11 million people in the US who didn't migrate to whatever database they use.  Nah he should be shunned everywhere, he not only hit a woman but best the fuck out of her and got off scot free because he had a bit of money. Any woman beaters should be shunned and forced to work menial minimum wage jobs the rest of their lives.  I picture some guy walking behind Brown just waving at everyone. I watch a lot of Border Security on tv of the borders in BC and Toronto and it's quite interesting to see who gets in and who gets denied through their strict guidelines.  LOVE that show!   but it stresses me out.  Having been someone who had an issue with border security and was put on a watch list for almost 2 years I hate seeing people lying or being taken to the scary building!!!! I happened to go into the inspection room at the Vancouver airport coming back from Hawaii with my parents because they brought back some fruit leaves and my mom didn't know what to call it when declaring it. It was so surreal walking in there and recognizing some of the officers from the show! The guy we had though I haven't seen on the show. The guy was really nice and understanding about it though and let us go pretty easily.  They are just doing their jobs.   And that show really highlights the crap they put up with.   To be fair, the US is also pretty strict about admitting Canadians with criminal records.  Yet Mexican Drug lords with millions to launder don't seem to have much trouble.... \_()_/ Oh no, the Mexican drug lords took his arm for speaking out against them! They left his hand though. They're not that cold. So THAT'S what happened to Rayman... This explains everything! I'm sure Chris wouldn't have any issue getting into canada if he followed the old smugglers route too Where is this route you speak of? A friend of mine needs this info.. Cross the lake eh This dives into another realm.  That's just...different from this specific topic.  It should be addressed.  But I don't think r/music is the best avenue. Why does it seem like *everyone* misses the backslash? &gt; _()_/

 Because you gotta type \\\\\\\_()_/ for it to come out right in markdown

\ = \_()_/

\\\\ = \\_()_/

\\\\\\ = \\\_()_/

Remember, 3 is the magic number They don't miss it. Database logic treats \\ as an escape character, so it ignores it. This is useful, as it allows it to parse strings correctly.

Unless for some unknown reason people suddenly started writing in pictographs using random characters. But that would be absurd. &gt; Database logic treats

This has nothing to do with the database. All info entered into the database is escaped properly, otherwise reddit would be full of security holes. It's because comments on reddit are interpreted as markdown and \_ around text makes it _italicized_.

The 'source' of the comment is

    Yet Mexican Drug lords with millions to launder
    don't seem to have much trouble.... \_()_/

and the \\ before the \_ _escapes_ the \_, so \\_ gets rendered as \_. From personal experience, it is a lot harder to get into Canada with a DUI than it is to get into the U.S. with a DUI. Canada views a DUI as equivalent to a felony and the U.S. views it as a misdemeanor.
  Not really Mexicans though. Yet they give us Bieber. The hypocrisy.  He did his bad stuff in your country. Now you can keep him. besides, I seem to remember a [little agreement](https://metrouk2.files.wordpress.com/2014/02/bieber.jpg) over a hockey game Let's do best 2 out of 3! No, Rush does not make up for you giving us Bieber and Dion. Except for Neil who has a summer home in California, They are still ours anyways! ;) Bah, you gave them to the world. Rush is a gift to all mankind. 
&gt;Rush is a gift to all mankind.

[And at least ten or fifteen women, too.](http://i.imgur.com/VATch.jpg) Cargo shorts. Cargo shorts everywhere. I don't understand why girls aren't creaming their pants over Geddy Lee! What woman doesn't want a dude who looks like a post-menopausal mother? I'm not gonna argue that! They truly are just fantastic! However, I will give you points for the fact that the Canadian government has apologized for Bryan Adams on several occasions. Teenage Head, Rush, Gordon Lightfoot, Daniel Lanois, Neil Young, The Tragically Hip etc. make up for our misdeeds.


EDIT: Yes, Yes I left out a ton of good bands and people! There's a reason I put etc. And then alanis morissette comes along and punches you all in the dick, isn't it ironic?  And Arcade Fire.

Nuff said. As far as I'm concerned, Avril Lavigne closed out the tab for your once and future transgressions. BTO, Metric, April Wine, The Guess Who.  Hedley ain't no slouch either.  The list goes on. Devin Townsend helps though. Devin Townsend is Canadian?! My national pride just exploded.  Is that what you named it? And Nickelback. And Avril Lavigne. These are war crimes. you tale that back! celine dion can sing. don't ever take away her rendition of o holy night. it's my favorite and when she sings " christ is the lord", i'm not christian but the say she sings that line, *i believe!* Is Bieber even relevant anymore? I know reddit loves to circlejerk about him, but has the guy even released a song recently? Yes he's still relevant. He is in the tabloids a lot. Been on Ellen a few times recently. Still popular with teenage girls. Models in Calvin Clein adverts. But not for actually making music. For which we are all grateful  Only because he hasn't released a record recently. Pop stars, unlike average musicians, don't have to constantly roll out music in order to make ends meet. Bieber could go 3-4 years without releasing a record, still go on a world tour or two, and be plenty rich and famous.  That isn't his real dick (or muscles) in the Calvin Klein ad though - http://petapixel.com/assets/uploads/2015/01/beforeafter1.jpg The US let's him in, Canada cannot deny Beiber because he is a citizen. Edgy comment. Haha, oh, that joke again, love it, great, 10/10, original, snarky, irreverent, well meme'd, doing great. /r/lewronggeneration Hey justin bieber was a nice sweet young boy until he found America. You guys ruined him! You can still appeal. But I wouldnt want brown either. You make it seem like DUI is not a big deal, in Canada it is a criminal offence.  Chris Brown hasn't made a decent record in a while tho?

Edit: guys it's a joke haha  Not a musical one.  The criminal one is coming along pretty nicely. If a DUI makes it hard to enter, then assualting someone should most definitely keep you out. Especially if you assaulted your defenceless partner.  Looks like the Canadian Government has Drake's back in this beef. I don't think they still have beef, they just released a song together That was Nicki Minaj's song.

Chris recently said somethings about Drake on interviews, yesterday at a concert Drake retaliated 

http://www.mtv.com/news/2089053/drake-dis-chris-brown-energy-concert/ Good now Chris Brown and Tyga can go suck each other off.  He beat Rihanna but he can't beat the system Aw man, you beat me to it... You guys always beating a dead horse with these puns. I think I missed the punchline. No need to beat yourself about it. Looks like the tweet was deleted already. What did it say? [I think this was it.](https://pbs.twimg.com/media/B-o_8WHW8AAjHgA.jpg) So he thinks that they will magically change their minds in the summer or what?! Its happened with other celebrity felons.  Yepp, they did it with Snoop Dog here in Australia. 


He was denied entry back in 2007 and they let him come to Australia finally last year.  the irony of Australia not letting criminals into their country Um yeahhhh.... that penal colony shit was a little while ago now.

We've moved on to not letting asylum seekers and refugees in now.  PEOPLE DONT FORGET why was denied entry? he was allowed back in 2011 Canada has granted entry to celebrities with a record before.  He's still on probation and I think it ends before the summer. You can apply for a waiver. ITs not a huge issue.  Hey Rhianna, why can't Chris Brown get into Canada? 
"Beats Me?" And the low-hanging fruit award goes to... Your mom.  I hope he ends up on Border Security love that show! http://imgur.com/soaBGHx Good. Excellent. Fantastic! Go Canada! Wait...but that means that *we're* still stuck with him! This is a great day for Canada,and therefore the world! I think everyone is missing the point Chris brown is a piece of shit who should be in prison No way, we have so many unfunny domestic violence jokes to make. This is exactly why they can't give Toronto an NFL team .... They would automatically win because no opposing team can get across the border
 As an American who doesn't like douchebags, I approve of this action.  Just would like to point out: this means he's still here. If we're going to create a virus we will contain it  [Douchebags are one thing...](http://www.chicagonow.com/families-in-the-loop/files/2013/02/rihanna-abuse.jpg) I find it kind of uncomfortable that this picture was so public. Poor girl. it's good for people to see. maybe they'll think twice about buying another shit song from this piece of trash. 

edit: Chris is the trash, not Rihanna. forgot to specify canada has apologized repeatedly for bryan adams Women beaters denied entry or was it just for bad music. They're saving him from the canadian women who'll beat the shit out of him with curling stones. And their bags of milk.  That means two things. Wait hold on. Bags of milk? That's a thing?  Yeah, they are 1L bags, they come in three packs, [here]( http://www.forkdelivery.ca/images/8-milk-2bags.gif) 1.333...L bags.  The 3-pack is 4 litres total. An Ontario thing.

Edit: An eastern Canada thing. A co-worker bought tickets with her friend. When she bought the tickets, I warned her that this could happen. 

I think I've watched too many episodes of Border Security... Good fuck that dude Why do so many people commenting on this story have DUI records? I seriously hope the Canadian government makes a principled stance here. Chris Brown is an unrepentant piece of shit completely devoid of basic human decency. He's lower than garbage. &gt; He's lower than garbage

Ewww is he garbage water? It's Chris Brown. Fuck that guy Considering that my American fiance couldn't get into Canada because of a (dismissed) DUI 9 years ago for like 8 months, and still gets questioned for 10 minutes almost every time she crosses despite copious records about her admissibility, I'm fucking happy that an actual criminal like this dipshit can't get into my country.. That's what he gets for beating his girlfriend. Slightly off topic, but does anybody remember that Seth Rogen quote about how the Grammys still allow Chris Brown to appear after what he did to Rihanna... and then Sean Penn was allowed to present the award for best picture at the Oscars? You mean... There are double standards and hypocrisy?  One would think the tour organizers would have cleared that with customs before booking the shows... Thought it was Chris Rock for a second and was outraged.  Realized it was Chris Brown.  Good. His management and advance team must be new at all of this. There have been other musicians with public records that didn't get turned away at the border, but it required special dispensation between the musician and the Canadian government.  Generally, an agreement that the musician won't go anywhere other than the concert venue, their hotel room and the airport.  If found elsewhere, The musician would be liable for heavy fines.  

I know this because I've talked to a guy who knows a guy that willingly traveled to Canada. Good.  About time the fucker started paying some sort of price for his domestic violence.  Here in America we've got too many assholes worshiping his sorry ass. And stay out. Damn, we'll have to try to get rid of him some other way now... Chris brown is a piece of shit. Just my two cents. Chris "I beat women" Brown shouldn't be able to make the money he does and deserves to be taken down a notch I wish Chris Brown and Kanye would get married so I could consolidate my hate. Kanye isn't close to Chris Brown's level of douchebaggery. Surely there's a better option. Eh hold up a minute.

KANYE WEST IS THE  BIGGEST DOUCHEBAG **OF ALL TIME!**

Brown is a much bigger asshole, but Kanye is King of the douchebags. Good. They saved themselves from this woman beater for now. What kind of mouth breather would even want to go to one of his concerts? [deleted] Though it's powerful that this image is out there, it breaks my heart that we're seeing this young woman in one of the darkest moments of her life. It's why there are laws to shield victims from public scrutiny.

I'm saying this as a lifelong journalist, too. I had the same thought. I feel like becoming the centre of attention is the last thing desired by most victims of abuse and assault. But her life is so public that these horrible experiences of hers basically went viral. Hell, the police report was all over the internet... it was surreal to read about how viciously that piece of shit attacked her. [deleted] Ahhh, this makes my little heart overflow with happiness  XD Sucks 2 suck https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hs5zvzTcqrE Anyone else find it funny. Buzzfeed has an article like Chris brown refused entry from Canada - "The internet Erupts".... any by "the internet" they mean 5 or 6 tweets each with about 2 or 3 stars/retweets We'll take Chris Brown back if you take Beiber! the bully from The Simpsons laughing/pointing  I read this as Chris Rock and couldn't figure out why everyone was talking about him beating women and hating him.  Good stuff, sorry eh. Canada with tighter border security than the U.S.? Where is the fucking outrage?!?! Could we deport him to Iceland? He probably told the boarder guards that he knew the biebs. Good. That's because the rapper they connect to the most is Shy Ronnie, and nobody messes with Ronnie's posse and gets away with it.  Quick rundown: Canada doesn't let you in if you have a pending criminal case anywhere in America, even for a temporary visa-free visit. Oh, yeah, I forgot about that. I used to work with a guy (here in the States) who was denied entry because of his DUI.  Maybe they were afraid we wouldn't let him back in and they'd be stuck with him. If only there was a list of all the domestic violence offenders who they did let in. Also, why isn't there the same tirade over Sean Penn beating Madonna or Mark Wahlberg blinding an elderly man? Probably because both happened in the pre-social media generation.  Chris Brown has a criminal record.  He was charged with felony assault and plead guilty.

Were Penn and Wahlberg charged and convicted?
 Penn pleaded guilty and Wahlberg admitted to blinding the man. and Wahlberg was charged and plead guilty too. He shouldn't beat women, Canadians love their ladies. well isn't that a smack in the face Yeah apparently Canada has a problem with violent people. I've been turned away at the border as well -_- We have to deal with Justin Beiber and Drake...  I think Chris Brown would've been a fair trade.   I'm glad. I hope he feels embarrassed. I'm still not over what he did, and it should be a couple more years before people let live that one down. Takes me a few years to get over people being violent assholes too.

/s These parts is Rihanna country  Let him into Canada, then lock the border behind him.  At least somebody's treating him like he deserves. The music industry and fans sure aren't. Right? If anyone wants to make a case for how morally bankrupt the music industry is you seriously don't need to look further than him. Also the fact that so many fans of his are females tells me a lot about the state of mental health in this country. To her vast credit, she made this about Julie Andrews and not about Lady Gaga. Exactly - singing it as Julie did. I'm glad Gaga got this and not Christina - Christina would have made it about herself with vocal runs and her signature style, missing the point of a tribute. Gaga was perfection. I'm a big fan of Christina, but she's rigidly pop oriented. It's ironic: Lady Gaga contributed more to the genre of pop than Christina, and yet she is also contributing to genres like jazz and musical theater, haha.  Pop radio DJ here, at this point I don't know why Gaga wastes her time on us.  Her talents far surpass anything that she put out in the CHR world. Because the money is in Pop music. I always thought she did pop music to make mad mucho then use said mucho to pursue her own non-pop projects in the future. 

Remember she asked Surgeon to open up for her one time and he plays some of the most abrasive nosiest experimental techno. She isn't a product of record labels for sure. Christina is no longer relevant on the pop scene.  She hasn't even been popular enough to tour since 2007. My gripe with Christina is that her belting has a raspy "screaming" sound to it, and any song that she does it in can pretty much always sound better without it slay me Holly I was genuinely impressed to see Lady Gaga appear moved by the crowd's reaction to her, and how gracious she was with Julie Andrews' legacy. Good on her. 

I know she's talented and such, but I don't dig pop style too much. But my respect for her has increased significantly since last night. Bruno Mars pulled the same trick for me 2 years ago at the Super Bowl.  *Googles furiously to find Bruno Mars' rendition of The Sound of Music at the Super Bowl* She did that on the Stevie tribute too.  Her performance was nothing more or less than a joyous celebration of one of his greatest songs.  She's a cool chick.  [Best Quality I've found of the performance](http://www.rickey.org/lady-gaga-performs-sound-of-music-tribute-at-oscars-2015-video/) Youtube didn't work for me but this did! Make sure it shows up high.

Obligatory keyword: mirror, link Had to disable uBlock. Thanks! [deleted] When Julie Andrews complimented her it was just the icing on the cake. I was floored by Gaga's performance, most unexpected moment of the night for me! When she said "Lady Gaga" with her lovely British accent, the name sounded both more regal and more ridiculous than it ever has. &gt;the name sounded both more regal and more ridiculous than it ever has.

But isn't that the point? Gaga has shown time and again just how fantastic she is as an artist.  Yea, she's weird when she's in pop mode, but when she sings with Tony Bennett, she has an air of class to her, and she kills it on stage.  She'll always be an oddball, which is totally cool.  It's her thing.  But she's amazingly talented and can do so much with her voice. Don't think for a second that 75-80% of her "Lady Gaga" is anything other than marketing. She was fantastic before, but never made a break. And she's a very intelligent person beyond just her art. Her marketing skills are quite impressive even if one excludes her looks/antics. She's a brilliant performer, and her "over the top" costumes are part of that performance. I don't love every song, but I always love her performances. When she started singing, I turned my wife and said, "Wait for Julie Andrews."

I was sorta hoping for some duet (I know her voice may still not be ready for song after her illness...) but I expected some appearance.

To see Gaga just acknowledge the recognition and walk off stage... she's a class act. I mean i'm pretty sure that julie andrews can never sing again because of a surgery that got fucked up on her vocal chords... When the singing started I thought it was Julie Andrews. I am not used to Gaga singing like that.  It's incredible that she took the career path she did because she is a graduate of the NYU musical theatre program

Edit: it seems that she dropped out! Thank you for your polite corrections.  I think it says a lot about music today that someone with such obvious talent has to do something outlandish to really make it.  Well, when you think about it a good voice is much easier to find than people realize. Every small town in America probably has some person who can sing well and not all of them can become a successful musician. So something else is needed, a bit of oomph to grab the attention of others. It makes sense. I am not convinced that she *has* to be edgy and weird. I think she genuinely enjoys it. all her video and costume concepts are her idea and I  think the all the "edgy and weird" is just simply her art Why do you think she "has to do something outlandish to really make it"? Did it ever occur to you that she actually liked the character she created and that it's part of her act? I can't find the interview I watched about this but she was very adamant about the crazy world and outfits she created as lady gaga.

It reminded me in a way of Matthieu Chedid and -M- which is his on stage character. He tried to kill -M- a few years ago without success.

Edit: nicely reminded of proper spelling it's more due to the fact that she tried to make it before Gaga and did not achieve significant note, then she adopted the persona and was a success. Whether or not she liked it is irrelevant.  Julie Andrews can't sing at all now. http://www.dailymail.co.uk/tvshowbiz/article-2244090/No-sound-music-Julie-Andrews-reveals-sing-botched-op.html
**TL;DR: Andrews announced that botched surgery destroyed her voice.** Which is a terrible fucking travesty, her voice was magnificent. Because the weirdest thing to do after years of weirdness was to act conventional. It was a tribute to someone else's film/songs.  Wouldn't have made sense to bring her own trademarks to the performance. Whoa man, that's some /r/Showerthoughts Agreed. SOM is probably my favorite movie of all time, so when ScarJo announced she was going to be doing a tribute to the music, I was like, huh? But when Gaga started singing, I just sat there with my jaw on the floor. And then when Julie Andrews came out and had that little emotional moment with her, that was priceless.  I've never seen such universal admiration in a comment thread. My heart is so full for her. I am fully convinced there is not genre Lady Gaga can't do justice. Her recent [Stevie Wonder](http://www.dailymotion.com/video/x2hfvib) and [Sting](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HmtOEEaQJZM) tributes blew me away. Add to that her [jazz chops](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-huNrHAou-E), it's really almost unfair to level her against the current field of pop stars out there.  More Gaga versitility... singing the popular rock song ['What's up - 4 Non Blondes'](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oj0YjGKqauw) Impressive range, both in pitch and volume. I have no idea how she goes from that intense shouting to almost a whistle without her voice failing. A lot of singers in pop music don't have a strong technical singing background but Gaga does. actually her range isnt that great but she really compensates with good technique I have to agree, her range is not particularly special but she puts everything she has into everything she does.  I feel privileged to be a fan of a woman who truly loves what she does and works so hard to be the best that she can be. THIS is what sets her apart from her contemporaries.

She has a lot of raw talent of course, but so much comes down to her hard work.   Yeah. Holy shit. I have to watch that later... can't lose sleep. I watched until the vocals started and just need to stop lest I go on a binge of nostalgia and love for the Gaga. So much talent. She does kinda look like He-Man there, but sings it with so much more power. Not better, but way more impressive and enthralling.  Admittedly, He-Man's performance is difficult to top. He-Man's performance of 4 Non Blondes' "What's Up" is the same as Johnny Cash's "Hurt" to Trent Reznor. It's now He-Man's song. check out her [BBC performance](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RH0-L1yHFGA), she messes up a few times because they asked her to do a song she didn't practice, but by the end she is making it her own. Jesus Christ. Did she have to do that on the spot? Ask any pop star to do that today, and the interview will be cut off immediately. She's a true musician.  Here's some on-the-spot Gaga during [an appearance on a French TV show](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pYb1iiz5Y1w). In that video, she plays an interesting arrangement of "Eh, Eh," then busts out some Scott Joplin at the host's request and sings "Poker Face" with new lyrics in French. One of my favorite videos of her.  Nah, it's the bbc live lounge. They invite people in to do two tracks - ones their own and ones a cover. I remember listening live to this and it was awesome even if she fluffed the lines. Fearne cotton is the presenter who interrupted her. Overall gaga handled it well without getting too flustered

You should check out some other live lounge stuff they always tend be be pretty great, especially the covers &gt; I am fully convinced there is not genre Lady Gaga can't do justice

I wouldn't mind hearing Slayer play Angel of Death with Lady Gaga on lead Vox Anthrax wants her to cover their music. She's a huge fan. Gaga singing Black Lodge might be the most perfect thing ever. Wow, listening to her sing Bang Bang gave me goose bumps. i'm a huge gaga fan but have never seen this stevie tribute - holy shit! it's so fun to watch her rock the keys and vocals so hard. thanks for sharing. 

her new, demure style is suiting her so well here @the oscars. she doesn't need to hide behind a meat dress when she can sing like that! I loved the ending of the performance where she blows him a kiss and you can see his wife next to him telling him about it and he sends a kiss right back. Oh wow, I just gained a lot of respect for her. I kind of feel bad for pegging her as a total pop fiend all these years. I stopped doing that a few years ago when I saw [this](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NM51qOpwcIM) from the annual NYU dorm-wide talent show when she was still a Tisch student. She put out an [entire album](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=F08GSGK1HT4) before she adopted her persona. I love that album. It has been on every playlist I've made in the last few years. It brings me great joy when a co-worker asks me who this is and says it's really good. Then I smile and say "Lady Gaga" and their jaw drops.. That was amazing. I'm pretty stunned. That was amazing! **EDIT:**
________________
 Vid was taken down for copyright as I suspected would happen, looks like they are going through all the youtube uploads and taking them down (a bunch of other versions got taken down too)

**Here is a full high-quality full version on [This Website](http://www.rickey.org/lady-gaga-performs-sound-of-music-tribute-at-oscars-2015-video/)**

*Thanks to /u/amirawr for the link!*

______________________________

The best version I could find on youtube is this: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Y2KSOeLXIzo

The quality is quite terrible but it's the only ok-ish version that hasn't been taken down
_______________________________
*If you live in America, you can watch the [official version on the Oscars Website](http://oscar.go.com/video/oscar-music-moments/_m_VDKA0_x67787nx?cid=google_rapidvod_oscars_2015)*
_________________________________
Honestly this is one of the best musical performances I've seen of one of my favorite soundtracks of all time, so if you didn't manage to watch it live then definitely give it a listen. much respect for lady gaga right now. Hope you enjoy it too.
 A post on my facebook wall was complaining about lady gaga performing, while a comment said that he had his headphones in so he didn't have to listen to her. 

There are some damned pretentious people out there And a lot on Reddit too. 

Look at some of the top comments here. 

"Oh I wish she didn't waste her talent on such empty pop music"

Ok... Then you'd probably never have heard of her. On top of that, pop music can be very high caliber (e.g. Madonna, Michael Jackson). 

Being vocal about your dislike of popular music or trends doesn't mean you actually have better taste.  Like all the people here whining about talentless pop singers and how great Gaga is because she can....cover lots of songs well. Pop is called Pop for a reason. It stands for "Pop"ular. But pretentious people on the interwebs always need to feel superior over the masses and dem dam sheeple. Its almost like all the Lady Gaga outfits and stunts where just an act!  are you not entertained? I'm so glad that she's finally get the recognition she deserves. I've been defending her for years by pointing out she's classically trained and showing people her NYU vid. But now with the Tony Bennett collaboration and now this performance, I think more and more people will finally realize exactly how talented she is as a musician.  In a world of horrible talentless pop-artists, Lady Gaga stands as a beacon of hope that musical talent can still prevail.  I don't agree in your judgement of the "world with no talent".

Almost all of you big name pop artists will be capable of great singing performances they are just that, great musicians/singers/artists that have the talent to do so much more, but have to act out a specific persona for themselves and their music in order to make the big $$$.

 It's not exclusive to Lady Gaga. To add to that, there have been talent-less hacks around for generations, they just get forgotten because their music isn't relevant 20 years later, just like the crap that's out there today will be forgotten in another 20. People look back at what they think were the 'glory days' of music (generally directly correlated to what era it was when they were 15-30 years old) and forget all the crap and remember the highlights, and compare those highlights to everything that's out today. I can't think of any other artist that can transition between genre's as easily and with as much commitment as Lady Gaga.

It's hard to believe this is the same person that wrote Bad Romance, gave us the ArtRave, stage dived to heavy metal music at concerts and was vomited on at others, played around with a few hip hop/rap songs on various albums and then came out with an old school jazz album. There's rumours circulating that her next album will be classic rock.

Truly a musical chameleon. I now realize I've been missing out by not paying more attention to her beyond a few catchy songs. The best part was that it wasn't really about whether you happened to like one type of performance or the other (it's not like I'm really a big fan of that type of performance,normally) - it's that it was just such a *smart* fucking move and perfectly executed. She was really *saying* something that transcended genre. I guess that was really the point of it after all, transcendence. Just awesome. I'd love to hear a classic rock inspired album... a huge part of her musical inspiration has come from classic rock... Neil Young, Led Zeppelin, Lynyrd Skynyrd, Mott The Hoople, David Bowie... would love to see her do her own thing with that. Also Queen. Her name is a play on [Radio Ga Ga](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=t63_HRwdAgk) by Queen.  Clever. She did some radio gaga for a while, just to get her name out there, and now she's making a career out of good music that would've found it hard to get any exposure.  I'm a grown man.  I got a tear in my eye when Julie Andrews came out and gave her that hug.  My elderly parents have both been raving about Lady Gaga for years, saying that she's the savior of pop music, and that she has one of the best voices on the planet, and for the most part I disregard what they say.  But no.  That's is one of the best singers **on the planet**.  Beautiful. ! Love this. She's always been this talented. Listen to "The Queen" on her album Born This Way. Her vocals in the bridge (which is a tribute to the late Alexander McQueen) are absolutely amazing. Listen to the studio a capella for full effect. Her vocals on that entire album are fucking fabulous. It's one of my favorite Gaga albums for sure!  [for the lazy](http://youtu.be/Cf72ljWJqAY?t=3m12s) "[Classical]" Classic. y'all have strange ideas about what constitutes classical. There's an orchestra, must be classical. /s This is my greatest pet peeve on internet radio playlists. I want to listen to classical music, not this new age, movie soundtrack shit! There's a time and place for both of those, but not when I want to listen to Schumann or Mendelssohn!  I tried to make a French Impressionism channel on pandora and off it went with Hans Zimmer and Bach.  I was scared about this performance because this movie is a classic and she's known for being pretty out there, but as soon as she started singing, I was absolutely floored. 

She was amazing and definitely gave one of the best performances of the night! She's out there with her creations, but has demonstrated immense respect for the classics throughout her career.  In her persona, sure. She's extraordinarily respectful of other genres of music, but she's also true to herself and the persona she has created. Check out some of her performances that aren't centered around her own works, and you'll see what I mean. ITT: a lot of people who judged Lady Gaga without hearing anything that she's done besides a few radio songs.  She's extraordinarily talented.  And no, just because you don't like pop doesn't mean she's wasting her talent or that her music is generic. EAT IT, CARRIE UNDERWOOD You just can't rise to the level of Julie Andrews.  Nobody can touch her.  But LGaga sure did a hell of a respectful performance.  Carrie just doesn't have the talent. As someone who does not like music like this, she did this so beautiful it's insane im a big fan of hers... but I have to say... even this performance was above and beyond anything she has ever done and she has never looked more beautiful "Impressed" doesn't cut it. It's not a strong enough word.

Taking on The Sound of Music is a monumental task and I think if you had asked anyone, they would've been reluctant to throw their support behind Lady Gaga. I've been a fan of hers for a few years now, and she's always more than happy to oblige when it comes to showing off her vocal abilities (check out her acoustic performances on The Howard Stern Show if you want a good idea). But even with the most stripped back of performances she'll manage to inject her Gaga persona whether it comes in the form of over-singing, a sneer,  or just the way she'll enunciate. After a few years you kind of know what to expect from a performer like her. Except here she manages to do something I've never seen her do elsewhere and that's by putting any kind of Gaga persona on the back-burner and on a whole letting her voice shine, without in any way, trying to personalize the songs she's singing. If that's not total respect in the case of honoring someone else's accomplishments (in this case the songs Julie Andrews is most known for), then I don't know what the fuck is.

I know she did a jazz album with Tony Bennett, but I'm confident you won't find anything that sounds better than what she did at the Oscars. Not to mention she pulled it off to a massive TV audience and with Julie Andrews standing in the wings. Mad respect for the level of talent and professionalism shown.  This was only unexpected if you'd never heard any of her ballads or acoustic versions of her songs. I totally admit to misjudging her talent.

When she took the stage I literally told my wife "Lady Gaga?   Well this is gonna be a trainwreck".

My wife apparently knows more than me (about a lot of things!) and told me "Just Wait".

I then spent the next 5 minutes with my mouth hanging open in awe and pleasant surprise.

I was wrong.  What an awesome and pleasant surprise to be wrong in such a great way. People hating on her without knowing her background. She's always been more than capable of doing this kind of performance.  I think what has me so thrilled with this is the deep sincerity of the performance.  She took honoring the film and Julie Andrews very seriously and came across as naturally humble and honored to get the opportunity.

Some folks are saying they were waiting for the sparklers and dance crew but I knew from note one that this was going to be perfectly respectful.  You could look at her and tell.  

 She looked moved by the audience reaction at the end. I've actually seen Gaga live, despite usually not really enjoying pop music (I was dragged along), and I was very impressed by the power of her voice. She ad-libbed some stuff at one point to show off and it was pretty incredible. My favourite performance I have seen of her was [this](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zeD-8oVc6O8), I think it shows off her voice pretty well. This really gave me a new found respect for lady gaga. Amazing! I think that is the point. I think she knew all along that once the schtick and gimmicks wore off, she still had a top quality voice to fall back on, giving her more longevity than a typical pop star.

http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NM51qOpwcIM

 I figure she had her weird shtick to gain popularity and attention, and once she had that, she was safe to explore more artful endeavours without fading into irrelevance like most artists tend to. 

If I had to guess, I'd say she had this all planned out.  I like to think that her weird "shitcks" *were* her way of exploring artful endeavors. Maybe her endeavors are just evolving to a place less visually aggressive.  She's no dummy.  She garnered the attention and millions of fans with crazy outfits and "poppy songs" and now that she has that huge fanbase she can come out and perform the classics and blow our minds with how good she is. She's a genius. I wasn't really a fan before but damn, I think tonight I changed my mind.  I got to see her for her Monsters Ball tour in July 2010 at Madison Square Garden and I have to say her concert was one of the best concerts I've seen next to Rolling Stones Bigger Bang tour in 2006. She is one of the most talented artists around for her genre. She isn't exactly my style (I'm more of a Devotchka/Anters/Jose Gonzalez listener) but I respect her talent. People should really understand how truly talented she is: http://youtu.be/NM51qOpwcIM And she has a wide range beyond pop music as well. Her voice truly shines when she's doing jazz or other classical pieces:

[Orange Coloured Sky](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9wHNySlNyuM)
[Lush Life](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qo7B_TdmFHc)
[Bang Bang My Baby Shot Me Down] (https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-huNrHAou-E) I love her version of [The Lady Is A Tramp](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZPAmDULCVrU), with Tony Bennett. Even Andrews was like "damn hoe" for anyone who didn't know, gaga went to school for this shit. she is a pro, just do some googling and you can find some stuff she did for school.  she's a prodigy. she taught herself to play the piano when she was four. Lady Gaga has always been a wildly talented singer. She did a great job here, but that isn't unexpected.

It always saddens me to hear people complain about her (though admittedly that happens less these days). She is a performer through and through, and treats almost every aspect of her career as an art form. So while she definitely has done more than her fair share of crazy costumes and seemingly bizarre antics, it doesn't detract in any way from her strength as a singer.

And can you really blame her? Her regular Gaga stuff makes her money, and she still does stuff like this, as well as her jazz collaboration album. Not to mention apparently being quite a nice person. Stephanie is a quite genuine person, and I have a great deal of respect for her. [WHAT ON GOD'S EARTH IS GOING ON WITH NICOLE KIDMAN'S HANDS!??!!?](http://i.imgur.com/jwzc2YG.png) HERCALEES! HERCALEES! She's clapping like the grinch Her hands look as big as her head o_O "Cancer" confirmed! She's probably wearing borrowed jewelry and afraid of smashing rings together. How does that make her hands bigger than her head though? Seriously, what's going on? Why are her [hands so big?](http://i.imgur.com/jwzc2YG.png) With hands like the Truckasaurus! Lady Gaga is a star for a reason.  I'm so glad people are giving Gaga the respect she deserves as an artist. I use her music for vocal warm ups quite often and I've always loved her wide range of music she can sing. She's fucking phenomenal. And she looked fucking fabulous as well tonight! A regular old ball gown looks fabulous on her!!  http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WjpjIoPJNGQ
 
alternate working atm

edit: Julie Andrews bit :
http://www.cbsnews.com/news/julie-andrews-makes-surprise-oscars-appearance-following-lady-gagas-performance/ Mirror (for those with ctrl+f) You know what? I've always kept the Lady Gaga songs I listen to under the "guilty pleasure" category. But this makes me feel like I shouldn't be doing that anymore. She's insanely talented and this made me decide not to be a closet monster any longer. 