Damn. This is very touching. At the fact that you and your family didnt press charges and understood his situation with his ptsd. If more people would be understanding of it we would have less veterans on the streets and committing suicide. Demfeels.jpg I came here to laugh, not to cry :( It's ok. Someone's bound to shit themselves tomorrow.  Buy me a burrito with extra hot sauce, and I'll make your dream come true.

Edit: thanks for the gold! I am snowed in today, but I will post an epic shitting-myself story Saturday. Only if you take 1lb of laxatives beforehand, and go to a social gathering between eating and shitting. I will send you a bottle of my hot sauce I produce if you eat it on a burrito.

Edit: http://www.samandoliver.com/ is that really your deal?  it looks and sounds excellent!  heh, and i love the dogs. As a dude can a wear a kilt? If I'm going to shit I don't wanna have to drop my trousers. Just a shit n run.  I am going to remember that sentence forever. Everytime me or someone else thinks we have screwed really screwed up, I am going to think or say that. Thanks! Word of advice: don't say it while rubbing your hands and smirking and making eye contact with anyone. I don't know why but it seems to send the wrong message.  All aboard...feel trip time :'( [choo choo](http://i.ytimg.com/vi/h1hdICC7DO0/hqdefault.jpg) [next stop...unfathomable sadness...](http://img.pandawhale.com/148010-time-for-a-feel-trip-meme-scho-Y4mT.jpeg) I came to /r/tifu to laugh[...](http://i.imgur.com/vjxktHF.gif) Today you fucked up How dare u laff at me Someone please shop this so that it has the feels face! :( Never underestimate just lending a soldier (or anyone) an ear whenever you can. It can really mean the world to them. It's really not that easy. You underestimate how hard it is for someone suffering from PTSD to open up about what they've experienced.  I think his point was more about simply giving them the time of day rather than that it would solve their problems. &gt; You underestimate how hard it is for someone suffering from PTSD to open up about what they've experienced.  
  
I can confirm that. Having it myself I know that I can't even go to myself.  
  
The best way i can say it from my point of view: The raw pain screams in your head, until you're empty inside; Until there is NOTHING but emptiness inside, and that you'd rather be dead then mention it to yourself.  
  
  
  
&amp;nbsp;  
  
Relevant quotes  
&gt;___  
Am I awake or dreaming? It doesn't matter anymore. When I close my eyes I dream of death and war.  
When I open my eyes I see death and war.  
 Michael Anthony  
___  
He felt strong arms reach around him, and gentle hands stroking his back and petting his hair. He knew nothing else, except the vague, soothing rocking motion, the raw pain screaming in his head, until, at last, there was nothing but emptiness inside, the arms and hands and the rocking, and a voice whispering just, Shh.   
 Leona Windwalker  
___  
He remembered the old-timers from his navy days. Grizzled lifers who could soundly sleep while two meters away their shipmates played a raucous game of poker or watched the vids with the volume all the way up. Back then he'd assumed it was just learned behavior, the body adapting so it could get enough rest in an environment that never really had downtime. Now he wondered if those vets found the constant noise preferable. A way to keep their lost shipmates away. They probably went home after their twenty and never slept again.   
 James S.A. Corey  
___  
Here, from her ashes you lay. A broken girl so lost in despondency that you know that even if she does find her way out of this labyrinth in hell, that she will never see, feel, taste, or touch life the same again.  
 Amanda Steele  
___  
When you're born a light is switched on, a light which shines up through your life. As you get older the light still reaches you, sparkling as it comes up through your memories. And if you're lucky as you travel forward through time, you'll bring the whole of yourself along with you, gathering your skirts and leaving nothing behind, nothing to obscure the light.  
But if a Bad Thing happens, part of you is seared into place, and trapped for ever at that time. The rest of you moves onward, dealing with all the todays and tomorrows, but something, some part of you, is left behind. That part blocks the light, colors the rest of your life, but worse than that, it's alive. Trapped for ever at that moment, and alone in the dark, that part of you is still alive.   
 Michael Marshall Smith  
___  
 This should get all the upvotes. We are social creatures. We need interaction. Even sugar gliders need friends. They actually can die from depression If more people were understanding of it we wouldn't be so cavalier about deploying them. It's sad. I have some family in the military. It's one thing to lose his friends but I'm sure he'll never forgive himself for hurting you. It's scary for him that at any moment someone who served can flip like that at any moment. He hurt someone he loves and that haunt him forever. I hope that you reach him and he gets help.  My dad and father-in-law where in the Navy and I joined the Army. After returning from a deployment they decided to tell me how much better the Navy is than the Army. While I was facing my father-in-law my dad decided it was a good time to put me in a head lock from behind. My next conscious thought was, "why is my dad on the ground in pain?". I unconsciously punched him in stomach hard enough to put him on the floor. 

My wife decided one night that it was a good idea to jump down our stairs and surprise me while I was turning all the lights off before going to bed. She tells me she had this distinct vision in her head as she was on her way down that this was a really bad idea. I was able to not hurt her but it scared both of us pretty good. 

Stuff like this happens a lot to vets. We dont do it on purpose and we feel really bad afterwards. Sorry.  Quite possibly the best TIFU I've seen. Drunken ness, juvenile antics, injury, chance for redemption. Awesome post, sorry about the FU.  I hate it when Ness gets drunk. He always tries to booty call Lucas.  Ness still thinks he can handle the PK Firewater... The sound of a homerun ko in smash /r/underratedcomment But Lucas always picks up. I'd like to take a moment to quickly remind everyone war is fucking hell. Guys, the beacons are lit! OP calls for aid! And reddit shall answer! Muster the Rohirrim!  OP, look to my coming, at first light, on the fifth day.  At dawn, look to the east, and down I shall ride piggybacking on Levi!  You will be reunited!



 This gets me through society. Just make sure he knows... &gt; Muster the Neckbeards

Ftfy We shall deliver...for OP... http://i.imgur.com/jJr4ExK.jpg There will come a day when you will stop quoting LOTR, but it is not this day.

 Fedora donned! M'Levi. M'OP Time for a Peace treaty with sauron. His eye should find levi Shit.. Someone tell those two short dudes to hold up on the whole "Cast the ring back unto the fires from whence it came" thing....


Shit. OP, can you post back again if he does indeed contact you again? Would be touching see something like that happen :) http://i.imgur.com/FQxbhwp.jpg I cant give enough upvotes hahaha this is fucking great
 I so badly want this to have a happy ending. I really hope Levi can bring himself to get back in touch with you, there is no reason this long term friendship has to end... I had PTSD just from being in prison so I can't imagine how traumatized your brain could get from that type of actual combat....make no mistake these are real injuries to the human body just ones you can't see.  I have PTSD stemming from childhood sexual abuse. I'm currently in the process of getting out of an extremely abusive marriage. My ex has been to jail twice in the past week for violating the EPO I got against him. My PTSD is so bad right now that I had a panic attack today when a neighbor's car door slammed because I thought it might've been him outside my house.

I can't even imagine what it must be like for combat veterans. :/ I'm sorry you went through that. Stay strong!  I have never had PTSD but i know how overwhelming anxiety can be.  Its hard and I wish you the best Thank you. As someone who used to have massive panic attacks when I saw a car that looked like my ex's ... my inbox is always open.  You should invest in firearm **with** training, and self defense courses. Therapy can give you tools to handle anxiety, but you have legitimate concerns. Don't be prey. Don't date predators. I wish you the best. I have ptsd from shit that went on in Foster homes and detention facilities. I can believe he reacted the way he did. I can't even imagine having my best friends killed next to me and surviving. I hope Levi gets better.  As someone with PTSD from non-combat sources, I'll second that. I came here to laugh, not to feel.  As did I. 
Levi call her back! 

And thanks for your service, mad respect! Even though I'm Canadian  Haha. Thanks for thanking our soldiers. You're a classic Canadian.
-American "If you're up North donuts are on me eh" I know it may seem like the right thing to say when thanking a veteran for their service but it can be taken the wrong way big time. A lot of veterans that have seen such horrible stuff don't feel they should be thanked for it. Some even feel what they've done is criminal. Its such a horrible situation no matter how it's looked at. I feel so sorry for anyone that's programmed into fighting a war against other human beings. This will probably be down voted but I've heard it many times.  TIFU by reading something sad and crying like a bitch. My female dog doesn't cry that often. Wrong. My dog is constantly whimpering when she gets bored. She's easily bored. I have two dogs so they have each other! I used to have two now I have one:(  he cries and looks for his brother all the time oh god damn it enough already, IT'S ONLY TUESDAY PEOPLE I CAN'T HANDLE THIS SHIT Shit... I should clarify my other dog didn't die, my ex moved down to texas and took him with.    what? Nooooo what a horrible bastard, why would he split them up?!? I hope it just wasn't possible for you to keep both of them rather than just "I'm taking one, you keep the other" She! I'M the he!  :)

But we were already violating the stupid lease,  only two animals allowed.  I've had my cat far longer than any of them.  so something had to be done anyways.  She could never handle my big dog,  the other guy was a lap dog and was obsessed with her, it'd be *worse* to separate THEM honestly.  I fucking miss the little guy  every day though.  I'm gonna have to put one of mine down this Friday. Not fun.  Levi if your out there and read this. You need to call her. You can't change the pass but you can move forward with people who obviously care. Who don't blame you. Plus you not talking to your friend makes her feel just as bad as you do for what happened.  &gt;You can't change the pass  

Damn are we still making Marshawn Lynch jokes? I didn't quite catch that, thanks for pointing it out. Here you are, running with more puns, I see. I'm just commenting so I won't get fined. ATTENTION, I UNDERSTAND THAT REFERENCE.  I see you don't hate to be that guy. Well, neither do I. (   )	 So we meet again... http://i.imgur.com/T0OBJQ1.jpg Damn that was brilliant. Bravo. The question is, will we ever stop? Too bad this is not a default subreddit :(

Edit: it's a default subreddit for new users since May (along with /r/earthporn, etc) but doesn't get updated for old timers like me.  I got here from r/all, so there's a chance Same here. LEVI, COME HOME! Don't go AWOL though. Come home when your time is up Someone put this in bestof. I am still reddit dumb. Don't know how.  Isn't it?   It was last year.  Yes, yes it is. TIFU has been a default since last May. The real issue is Levi's account is probably older than that, but tifu isn't a secret anymore. Once I read he was army I was expecting him to have prosthetic legs and she jumped on him and they toppled over due to that. What I got was much more feels inducing.  Ooof, my worst was a friend of mine wanting to piggy back me. He's about 5'5", I'm 6'4". I crouched down, he jumped higher than both of us expected, I stood up to compensate... and flipped him over. He did a 3/4 flip and landed flat on his back. Man I'm 6'5" and my back has been righteously jacked since I was about 25, it was bad before but that's the point where it got fucked up... now I'm 31 &amp; I can say with conviction the best part of being a little "older" is that people no longer assume being tall is permission to jump onto my spine. Fellow midget giant here- it's knees for me.  Thanks to some very kind (and patient) friends of mine that push me to work out a whole lot, I don't have back or heart problems, but bad knees run in the family. &gt;midget giant

What?

&gt;knees

Have you ever considered something like [this](http://www.amazon.com/RockTape-Knee-Caps-Manifesto-Medium/dp/B00KX7XLAQ/ref=sr_1_29?s=sporting-goods&amp;ie=UTF8&amp;qid=1424156436&amp;sr=1-29&amp;keywords=knee+sleeve)? 6'4" person, midget giant as in a small giant. Like sub 6'6" but still taller than the average person. I deal with the knee pain most often. Found I just take something and try to avoid doing anything too crazy until they feel better. Midget giant is so cute. If I ever manage to get a taller than average boyfriend (or even one at all, who am I kidding?), that's going to be his petname.

Even if he's like 5'6".  As a 5'11" let's please make being a midget giant cool. 

I don't get the cool tall-people status and I can't get into their clubs but I don't have the benefits of being a short person either. The life of a midget giant is hard, show them some love please. Bad knees don't run. I don't care which family they are in. Good one, Dad. F Respects have been paid. F Can someone explain what just a single "F" means. I've been seeing it a lot lately and never knew. It's a stupid meme that comes from Call of Duty: Advanced Warfare. In one of the cutscenes, you attend a funeral. On the PC version, when you approach the casket you are told to "Press F to pay respects". I think the word you're looking for is Dank Meme Dank maymay bruh

http://i.imgur.com/LDiEqVV.jpg http://knowyourmeme.com/memes/press-f-to-pay-respects It's a scene from Call of Duty where you are at a funeral and you have to press F to "pay respects". People thought it was funny and now it is all over Reddit.. In the latest installment of Call of Duty (Advanced Warfare), there is a funeral cutscene where the player has to "pay respects" to his dead comrade. You literally press F (or the button equivalent on consoles) to salute the casket. It's a joke that spawned from the recent call of duty. There was a funeral scene where you had to "Press 'F' to pay respects" as part of it. People thought it was stupid, and here we are now. Praise it nocto If this is true, it was probably traumatic for him as well. He probably has a lot he needs to face and it might not be healthy for him to deal with this at the moment.  A few things about this post.

1) It is very sad that the US Army would rather discharge someone who has fought and been amidst his friends as they died than to deal with the ACTUAL problem at hand. 

2) The fact that you blame yourself for such a terrible and unfortunate incident is just wrong. This issue is much bigger than the both of you and pointing fingers at individuals is just ignorant. You shouldn't have to think about doing old high school jokes with an old high school friend. Unfortunately the world can be cruel and they isn't always the case.  How did the Army even find out about the assault if no charges were ever filed? Did OP tell them? Did Levi tell them? Doesn't make much sense.  Because the military tracks its personnel relentlessly.

Source: military. I would also bet that the cops called them. Yeap. Yeah, my guess is that the cops called his CO or first shirt when they locked him up.
Source: First Shirt buddy Most states have an automatic thing where the state picks up assault charges due to how many battered wives or others in messed up situations may be forced to drop charges by significant others with whom they still live or other similar situations. This choice by the state is generally seen as a protection, and I'm not even sure what sort of thing could happen under military law where soldiers have far fewer rights. Have an up vote and a tear. For levi! Dude, you are an absolute saint for taking responsibility for it. Seriously, that shows some amazing maturity and understanding. Nobody wants to put their friend in prison. Nobody wants their friend to lose their job. It seems like something a friend would do, especially one who's close. 

It was a very good thing to do and, unfortunately, not everyone would have been that mature. I believe that friends are family, and I believe that one has a responsibility to protect family as much as possible from trouble, be that legal or otherwise.  What a sad situation. A night out, with the best of intentions, leads to pain for both of you. I hope your friend gets the counseling he obviously needs, and when he feels better, I hope he gets in touch with you. You both deserve to have the other person in your life. I'm very sad after reading this. 

Good luck, and I'm optimistic he'll get well and rekindle the great friendship you all had. Wow that's depressing, hope it works out. Keep us updated OP.  &gt;Turns out that in my druken state I decided that jumping on a very drunk Army field officer who has seen two tours of war in Iraq was a super good idea and got my mother fucking ass beat. 

It's not really your fault that somebody else has uncontrolled PTSD. It's not exactly his fault either, but it's definitely not your fault. Plot twist: Levi actually had a desk job in the military and just really wanted to beat OP's ass. Classic Levi. This will probably be buried at this point, but there's always the possibility that he wants to get to a point in his recovery before he lets himself speak to you again. for what its worth, this wasn't your fault either.  in this case, it was the world that was broken.  :T

i hope you two can reconcile.   LEVI!!! LOOK OVER HERE!!! alright I'll be the black sheep in the room... this sounds super fucked up. Look I get PTSD, I get the drinking, I even get the initial throw down... but the continued punching and near comatose state he put you in? Sorry, but that does not sound like a stable person. 

Is it understandable? Sure, absolutely. But that doesn't mean he doesn't need IMMEDIATE help. 

What if they didn't stop him? What if some kid startled him at night? I'm not saying he's a bad guy here, but there are lines. I would be much more concerned about getting "Levi" help than worrying about your friendship, for now anyway. And if that meant pressing some charges to mandate therapy?... well, I'm really playing devil's advocate here.

EDIT: It's looking more and more like this story isn't real anyway, so take that for what it's worth Getting him help is important, but having him face charges for mental illness is a shitty idea. Ya I know, but where is the line? Is he now free of all consequences because of his illness? That seems a little too far in the wrong direction. All I'm saying is this is not normal behavior, this is not "how it is". This is serious, and it requires serious intervention. Who says he isn't receiving help? Maybe in the year since OP has heard from him he's been getting treatment.  Sure, he needs help. Where's the line? I can't say; I don't know, but I do know we shouldn't betray a service member because of the injuries he or she sustained fighting for our country.

Throwing him in jail, and ostracizing service members for mental illness is absurd. It's an illness, and they should be helped. Getting these men and women to seek help can be difficult, but intervention by the court system isn't going to make it any better.

Having to live with PTSD, and the negative impact it has in their lives, drives many service members to suicide. We should be trying to help them just as we would any other person with a mental illness.

I suggest you read Redeployment by Phil Klay. It's a short story he wrote from the perspective of a marine returning home from his tour of duty; Phil Klay is an Iraq veteran, and he provides amazing insight into PTSD. &gt; Throwing him in jail, and ostracizing service members for mental illness is absurd.

... to be fair, he wouldn't be thrown in jail for mental illness. It would be for beating someone nearly to death. &gt;but where is the line?

There is no "line" for mental illness. It's all grey and depends on what happens. If it's anything serious it's up to either those involved or the court. You're right it but choosing to not press charges is going to mean as it seems that its unlikely anyone will push the issue. Is trying to be fair worth getting some innocent kid or random people killed cause he snaps? If this story is real and he snapped on a close friend what happens when he snaps on someone he isn't close to? 

It's fucked up but he needs to be discharged and put somewhere he can't hurt someone temporarily until he gets aware and controlled. It is totally fucked up, I agree with you. Thanks for saying exactly what I was thinking... and I really hope this story isn't true.

 If Levi was having a PTSD response it's possible he flashed back and all responses were automatic. This would be consistent with a response to ptsd triggers. He was on autopilot. I hope his commander got him to seek help as ptsd is pretty treatable.  I get that. But if my autopilot was nearly killing people every time I got triggered I would expect more of a response. People think I don't care about PTSD or something here, that's not my point. My point is his treatment far outweighs their friendship right now. Have you considered the possibility that this response was not expected? It sounds to me like nobody knew that he would have that kind of reaction. And that incident prompted the correct actions: demanding that he gets the help he do obviously needs.

There's also nothing to even imply that his treatment and their friendship are mutually exclusive. In fact, I would bet that her forgiveness and him accepting get forgiveness would help in his recovery. You didn't say anything disrespectful or mean but people are getting a knee-jerk reaction to downvote you. Everything you said is true. Have an updong.

Edit: He didn't say the guy should face jail time; he said actions could be taken to get the guy some (granted, mandatory) help. That's *normal* in a violent situation regarding mental illness.

Edit 2: All aboard the downvote train! Choo choo!

Edit 3: Regardless of the negative stigma associated with psychiatric hopsitals, they're actually more effective than most people think. See sources below:

[http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC10796151/](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dQw4w9WgXcQ)

[http://mha.ohio.gov/Default.aspx?tabid=961](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dQw4w9WgXcQ)

[http://www.researchgate.net%2Fprofile%2FRosemarie_Mccabe2%2Fpublication%2F2284851751_Treating_suicidal_patients_in_an_acute_psychiatric_day_hospital](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dQw4w9WgXcQ)


 [deleted] I was admitted to a psychiatric hospital in my late teens with a severe social anxiety disorder. 

For some reason that still isn't clear to me, this included a mandatory 'art therapy' session that consisted almost entirely of having to listen to John Lennon's Imagine on repeat for hours, every day. 

Words truly cannot express my hatred of that song. 

But the drugs were really A+, and I was routinely monitored for signs of self-harm, so I guess I can appreciate that. [deleted] &gt; You learn what they want to hear, and give it to them.

God, this is so fucking true. That's how I finally got released. 

My experience wasn't as bad as yours--I had a hard time caring about anything, up to and including being admitted and confined--but I just remember thinking, "My guardians are getting swindled." Who even knows how much they were paying those people to play Imagine for 3 hours every day. 

They'd also make us read the most depressing shit ever. It's difficult for a mentally fit individual to get through A Child Called It, why the hell are you making a bunch of depressed, traumatized, often (as was in my case) cast aside teenagers slog through it? Their main strategy seemed to be, "Hey, look how worse life could be for you!" Geez, thanks, that's doing wonders for my massive chemical imbalance.

Luckily, my guardians were really great people who were unbelievably willing to try different treatment options until we found one that worked. 1 on 1 therapy twice a week and Paxil were my sweet spot. [deleted] I think it's super fucked up that OPs own FAMILY took Levi's side.  I also don't think this is OPs fuck up by any stretch of the imagination.  Seems like a case of victim blaming, Levi definitely needs help but that doesn't mean his *criminal* actions are beyond reproach.  

Of course I'm glad none of this is real.   Yes this is  bullshit.  An Army field officer?  What is that?   Is it an Army field grade officer?  You don't dishonorably discharge officers or anyone really.  The only person I ever knew to get a dishonorable discharge killed his wife.   I hate these false stories that are told that reinforce the narrative that veterans are all fuck ups one step away for being homeless.  Source: I am a Veteran who is not a fuck up or on step away from being homeless. It's just too far in the wrong direction. Instead of trying to be sympathetic towards this "Levi" I'm just sitting here scratching my head. He just seems unstable and hardly the figure head you need to make a point about help for Veterans I agree with you with the continued beating Yeah...OP sounds kinda like a classic battered woman. 'it was all my fault' To be honest, he's probably got additional PTSD from this incident. It's one thing to feel guilty about triggering someone else's PTSD in such a way that they lose their shit, but it's another to live with the guilt and memories of what you did when you lost control. Especially if it was someone you really really care about. 

This is why he hasn't contacted you. The guilt is probably more than he can stand, even if you forgive him, he can't erase the memories of what he did and it's just another thing that keeps him up at night and torments him.  Most emotional TIFU of 2015  It's okay Petra. F I don't really get to reddit very often and I probably missed something...what does this "F" mean? 

Edit: I obviously don't play Call of Duty...thanks guys :) Its from Call of Duty, people found it funny that there was scene where you had to press "F" to pay respects at a funeral. It actually lets you hold it indefinitely. I did it long enough that everyone at the funeral would have moved passed the "they were such good friends" thoughts to "WHAT THE FUCK IS HE DOING?! I NEED TO GO OTHER PLACES!" rage. The new Call of Duty game (or some game) has a funeral scene for a soldier(?) and the screen prompts you "Press F to pay respects." For some reason people thought this was bad/funny and it became a meme.

http://knowyourmeme.com/memes/press-f-to-pay-respects I do not agree with this 100%. While being a vet with PTSD my self that is not a free pass to  loose my shit every time I have a normal social interaction. 

Do rape victims get to beat the shit out of everyone who looks like the person who attacked them and get a buy, NO. Do we let victims of racial hate crimes go kick the ever loving hell out of any person of a race who hurt them? NO.

But yet we allow and even blame our selves when people sign up for war, full well knowing the situation(and do not egt me started on the supposed legitimacy of said war either). Then do not get the help they know they will need from a system notorious for not taking care of the people who sign up with them. So they become time bombs that we honor. What the ever living fuck is going on here.

You knew this guy, he was a good friend of yours, you only jumped on his back, like you had many many times in the past. His reaction IS NOT OKAY.

He is obviously a very mentally ill person, why you allowing a person like that to drink, nor have tried to get him help is beyond me. 

Every other mentally ill person is in someway held responsible in this society when they do not treat their illness and it allows them to act in ways detrimental to said society....I ask why the fuck should some paid workers get a get out of jail free card?  [deleted] how dare you make me feel my own feels! But seriously.....damn Levi if you read this please reach out to her. [deleted] I think the PTSD needs to be addressed before anything else, it sounds pretty severe. Please update us if Levi gets back in touch! I truly hope Levi gets the counseling he needs, and can find the strength to get thru all the muck of post war stress and find happiness again.  I think this is the saddest FU I've read here... I really hope he responds! Feels are heavy Are you crazy? He could have killed you. He might even kill others. O.o

Of course it was your mistake to jump him, but his reaction shows clearly that he's not ready to join normal society. What if he had children and they jump him or do sth that kids do. Will he hit them like that too? I don't think they will survive a beating like that. sorry but your friend is a dipshit for hitting you.i could be wrong, but i think its a slim chance of it being PTSD and he is using that as an excuse in my opinion. Going off your time frames im guessing he deployed at the end of 2011 or 2012 for the first time to iraq. He didnt see combat, he didnt lose people. In all of 2012. we lost a single soldier in iraq. All of 2012
http://icasualties.org/iraq/ByYear.aspx
2011 he maybe lost someone in his unit, but its rare for field artillery to be out doing patrols on the streets. But from 2011 on we really didnt patrol any more in iraq, the Iraqi army took over and we provided over watch. Extremely rare. During 2010 and 2011 iraq was very calm and a completely different war. He could have deployed at the tail end of 2011 when we did lose a few troops but for the most part i would check the time frames. Just letting you know the facts on this. 

more facts
http://icasualties.org/Iraq/Nationality.aspx
6-06-2011	Campo Jr., Emilio J.	Specialist	20	1st Battalion, 7th Field Artillery Regiment, 2nd Heavy Brigade Combat Team, 1st Infantry Division	U.S. Army	Minnesota	Madelia	Hostile - hostile fire - Rocket fire	Baghdad (southeastern part)	Iraq

6-06-2011	Fishbeck, Christopher B.	Specialist	24	1st Battalion, 7th Field Artillery Regiment, 2nd Heavy Brigade Combat Team, 1st Infantry Division	U.S. Army	California	Victorville	Hostile - hostile fire - Rocket fire	Baghdad (southeastern part)	Iraq

6-06-2011	Hartwick, Robert P.	Specialist	20	1st Battalion, 7th Field Artillery Regiment, 2nd Heavy Brigade Combat Team, 1st Infantry Division	U.S. Army	Ohio	Rockbridge	Hostile - hostile fire - Rocket fire	Baghdad (southeastern part)	Iraq

6-06-2011	Olivieri, Michael C.	Private 1st Class	26	1st Battalion, 7th Field Artillery Regiment, 2nd Heavy Brigade Combat Team, 1st Infantry Division	U.S. Army	Illinois	Chicago	Hostile - hostile fire - Rocket fire	Baghdad (southeastern part)	Iraq

6-06-2011	Cook Jr., Michael B.

the only 5 artillery deaths in iraq that shared the same unit in 2011 and none died during a gun fight but a rocket attack.

Also come to think of it, If he joined at the very beginning of 2011. With basic training being 9 weeks, and artillery is around 5 weeks 5 days for the shortest AIT and Then 2 weeks in between duty stations.  
He would have just made it to his duty station by May. Done a month of prep and unit training before sending him to Kuwait for 2 weeks then to Iraq.... mid June is pretty much the soonest he would have been in Iraq. 

all am i saying is right now things aren't adding up 
 Maybe she got facts confused since she's not in the military herself? You're not wrong though. 

Although, people can get PTSD from almost anything. So maybe the story is totally false, but for your own knowledge (and other peoples) you can get PTSD from a lot of life experiences, not just war and being military and all stuff along those lines.  Seems legit

OP said his second deployment to Iraq was in 2011.

&gt;since he had been deployed to Iraq for his second time since joing the US army in 2011.


He didn't join in 2011, his second deployment to Iraq was in 2011. Which was totally happening. I deployed there in 2011 too.


&gt;My dad also learned that Levi's team had lost 6 members his **first tour** of Iraq in a shoot out REread it man. you just posted everything with out reading what she put. She said he joined in 2011. she said his 2nd deployment was last year.
 I think YOU need to read it.

I deployed to Iraq in 2011. I returned home mid 2012.


She said this happened about a year ago and that it had been 8 months since he had been deployed (and returned from deployment)

So about a year ago from now would have been late 2013, and around 8 months after he got back from his 2011 deployment from Iraq which lasted until 2012.

The math checks out. He didn't join in 2011. His second deployment was in 2011.

Time now - Deployment time - 8 months after deployment - "a year ago" = 2011. OP's overall shitty grammar actually supports your theory.  The OP said "Levi's team had lost 6 members his first tour of Iraq in a shoot out" after indicating that the first tour was in 2011 and he is a "field artillery man". You attempted to refute that by listing the five people in a field artillery unit all killed on 6-06-2011 by hostile rocket fire. The page you linked to shows just above that another casualty from the same unit dated 18-06-2011, also by hostile rocket fire. Perhaps he took another 12 days to die from the same attack?

This looks to me like you've pinpointed the one matching incident, not that you have refuted it. Unless you are trying to claim that OP could not have heard third hand from her Dad about the men being killed in an attack and call it a "shoot out" when it was actually rocket fire?
 I also posted a time frame if he would have joined at the beginning of 2011 to when he would have deployed. That time frame he wouldnt have known those guys. again just going off the info she has given Or with just one week or so less in your guesses about time between duty stations and/or prep and unit training or in the OP's not exact description of when he joined, instead of mid-June as you said, he arrives there just in time for that incident to be the first thing he encounters in Iraq. I'm not saying that any of that is proof, just that the details that you have come up with still seem consistent with OP's story. This is a well-written story, and for some, a tear-jerker.  For me, I felt my spider-sense tingle.  

I guess I found it hard to believe that the combination of a police report + the deputy district attorney did not result charges being filed in this instance.

After all, the victim doesn't press charges, the DA's office does.  And given that what happened was pretty much incontrovertible, I don't see a) a police officer NOT filing a report and b) a deputy district attorney NOT filing charges based on this report.

Who is going to want to take a risk of letting that guy wander around until he busts up someone else for little to no reason?  Charges get filed in cases that are a lot weaker and against people who are a lot less of a danger to the community all the time.

At any rate, I'm not saying the story isn't true.  I have no dog in this fight.  If it is true, I hope it works out for the best for all involved.

But I do have my doubts about this story. This is absolutely the same thing that told me this story is bullshit too.  It's not her choice to file charges or not, and with the facts as described this is absolutely getting filed on.   damn dude Yeah this smelled of total bullshit. Glad you have something to back it up with. I don't think anyone packed their lunches for this feels trip.. :( Sorry about your FU, OP...I hope Levi contacts you and you're both able to put the past behind you. Have an upvote with my compliments. I hope he reads this and it helps. But if not, just given him time and space. He isn't going to forgive himself immediately. Consistency and spacing will be key here. Text or call him once every few weeks or months. Not often enough to bring it up constantly, just enough to let him know you still care, that you still want to talk to him.

With time and possibly counseling, you can make contact again.  [deleted] It has taken years, but the military is finally starting to wise up about PTSD. The fact that her parents refused to press civilian charges, and that they went to his CO to ask them to get him help, plays a huge role. I can almost guarantee that he faced UCMJ charges, at the very least conduct unbecoming, possibly battery charges, and he was probably punished. At the same time, hopefully they have gotten him some help. This thread has been linked to from elsewhere on reddit.


 - [/r/army] [TIFU by trying to get a piggy-back ride. (x-post r/tifu)](http://np.reddit.com/r/army/comments/2w65my/tifu_by_trying_to_get_a_piggyback_ride_xpost_rtifu/)


 - [/r/thatHappened] [I got beat up because PSTD, but feel my heart-wrench](http://np.reddit.com/r/thatHappened/comments/2wg2kn/i_got_beat_up_because_pstd_but_feel_my_heartwrench/)

*^If ^you ^follow ^any ^of ^the ^above ^links, ^respect ^the ^rules ^of ^reddit ^and ^don't ^vote ^or ^comment. ^Questions? ^Abuse? [^Message ^me ^here.](http://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2Fmeta_bot_mailbag)*

 Wow that's pretty heavy for a sub that is typically light-hearted.  Thanks for sharing your story.  I hope Levi comes around!  He probably feels terrible for now.  Time heals all. *former* military...never ex-military. Glad you're okay! [deleted] Gonna have to agree with you here. 

Something that I noticed is that the whole story focuses on her refusal to press charges. But...that's not how criminal prosecutions work. The district attorney chooses whether to pursue a case and press charges, and they can compel the victim to testify through a subpoena. The whole part of the cops begging her to press charges just doesn't make sense. It's not up to the victim whether the DA goes through with the prosecution or not.
 [deleted] When you are arrested by the police, you are to provide them with your military ID and unit. Seeing as the police held him over night, I assume that they had seen his ID at somepoint. The police then call the chain of command. When you return to base they are waiting for you. This probably explains the rapid departure. We all know last minute flights are expensive, his 1st Sgt probably told him to get his ass back base to base; NOW. 

Source: Me. Active Duty Marine Corps 2006-2010. From my own personal run-ins with civilian police back when I was active duty, it was pretty standard for the police to call your First Sergeant immediately, regardless of whether or not charges are filed later. I was pulled over in rural South Dakota with friends and we had open beers in our car. Cops held us for the Military police and I had to have my first shirt come down to the military cop shop and have me released, but the civilian police never filed any charges against us, no tickets, nothing. I think she meant that it was a possibility that he could have been DD, and from my personal experiences with the civilian police while I was active duty, it was pretty standard for them to call your first shirt immediately, regardless if any charges were filed or not.  My assumption is the police reported it. Due to the Brady Act, any military service member who commits "domestic violence" is lawfully unable to be issued a weapon. This then results in them being seen as lawfully unfit for military service and will result in a discharge (though probably not a dishonourable, most likely a "under other than honorable conditions" discharge. There are like 5 different kinds of discharges, the differences between them primarily deal with what kind of VA benefits the Veteran is entitled to after discharge). 

Even if no one on the civilian side presses charges, the military can still litigate this under the Uniform Code of Military Justice as a crime or crimes, or persue Article 15 proceadings for non-judicial punishment. An Article 15 can also result in a discharge if there is enough evidence of previous poor behavior to warrant one. In addition to all of this, the entire situation can be used by medical people to start a medical discharge for the service member, which is a completely different process that isn't even up to the service members chain of command.  What a sad TIFU :( Good luck OP and Levi! Love from the UK Come home, Levi.  She will keep an eye out for you! Hahahahahahaha yo too early, just too early  All I can think of while reading this is what a bunch of morons.

 The Iraq war ended in 2011. How did he deploy if there was no war? Just becuase the war "ended" doesn't mean people weren't still being deployed. Usually when a war ends there is still months of clean up amongst other things. Lots of shooting could have been still be happening. 

But, I'm not totally sure if the facts/story is/are true, but maybe she got confused on some aspects since she's not in the military herself? No, the only things happening were convoy security - which did end in 2011 and rocket attacks. 

The only forces, whatsoever, in Iraq left after 2011 were in the Green Zone. There were no ground troops after 2011 that would have left the Green Zone. Embassy security and State Department security would conduct convoy security for US diplomatic officials. 

Source: I was there in  late 2010 doing the "clean up" you described, as a field artilleryman. When the US pulls out and the "war" is over, that means all that cleanup has been done. If some is left to do, private contractors are doing the work.  This is most likely, and we have to also remember that artillery has to be mobilized, and the people still fighting the US forces in Iraq (or Afghanistan as the case may be) are very good at ambushing convoys. Convoy security in Iraq ended in 2011, there were no forces outside the wire after that. When I was there as Artillery in 2010, there were no cannon. FA was being pressed into Convoy Security roles escorting all the Army supplies to Kuwait. 

Seems to me this story is BS, or OP misunderstood Iraq for Afghanistan You definitely know more than I do on this. I'm thinking she said Iraq when it was Afghanistan. 

Could field artillerymen come under fire in the way she described he did? i asked the same question..... Maybe she meant Afghanistan. Also why the heck is a field artilleryman getting into a firefight? Former FA soldier here.

* It's not always a firefight.
* It's usually not a firefight (IED hitting your convoy, anyone?)
* The enemy doesn't check your unit type before engaging.
* Artillery is a force multiplier and therefore a high-value target. Taking out or weakening an artillery unit does more than destroying an equal amount of infantry assets.

I was an M60 gunner myself. We didn't train quite as intensively as the infantry guys but light artillery is basically light infantry with a howitzer specialization. Question, do American artillery battalions not have their own recon teams? They have forward observers, usually directly attached to the infantry units the FA supports. They're not really "recon" in the sense you might think.  huh, interesting. Norwegian system is a fair bit different then. Insightful Provisional Infantry possibly? Was a pretty common thing in both Iraq and Afghanistan, especially during the surges, to see platoons of non-infantry combat arms, like tanks, AAVs, MP's, and arty, used the same way as an infantry unit.

Edit: Re-read OP, if Levi JOINED in 2011, then I'm not sure how he could have completed 2 pumps (Army tours ~18 months) with the usual unit dwell time between deployments within the time frame of story.  u/eli809 states some very clear and undeniable facts via icasualties, OP smells like bullshit.
Releveant: former Marine with Afghan pump This needs more visibility.  I asked the same thing yet again lol Just because the war ended doesn't mean all of the troops just packed up and left. There are still troops in Iraq right now.  So what you're saying then is that the US military and government left six deaths from a single unit unreported during this time frame? The current troops in Iraq are in advisory role, contained to the major military installations such as al-Asad Air Base, which is currently in the news. The thing [is ongoing](http://www.wsj.com/articles/obama-authorizes-up-to-1-500-more-military-personnel-to-deploy-to-iraq-1415391118).  The war ended in 2011 but we still have troops there today. "No boots on the ground" is a really misleading phrase. It really means more of a, "no fully ready combat brigades are currently present in this country, but bits and pieces of several different combat brigades are still here working together as one, doing a job that is not primarily focused on active combat, but which still has some combat related activities frequently".  She said his **second** deployment to Iraq was in 2011.

Hell I deployed to Iraq in 2011. We were still there, I promise. Up vote and I hope this makes front page so he will see it Ditto Because everyone in the world checks reddit daily Just a shitty situation all around. I hope you guys can reconcile.  Levi Jeans My jeans did a similar thing to me one time. They had PTSD from me shitting myself 2 days earlier. I had to end the relationship, and they became my little brothers handmedowns.  The root cause was alcohol. It separates mind from body.

If you find him, you MUST give him a hug! I want to say that Levi shouldn't have hurt you, but some of you need to understand that PTSD is that strong of a psychotic disorder. Our veterans can't sleep because of nightmares, they flinch at the sound of an exhaust backfiring, or from the train, and they can get triggered from flashing lights or from things that remind them of the war. I hope none of you get it. It really is hard to deal with. That's maybe why he wasn't charged or dishonorably discharged.  &gt;Levi and I have always been close and for second we even considered being a couple (I am a female) but it just never worked out. But I wrote him letters all through his basic training and when he got deployed all through his first 6 months of that as well. 

He's not ever forgiving himself. Keep trying to reach him if you can.  High school : Get piggyback rides

War

Get your face beat in for trying to get piggyback ride

Yeah, I think it's time to look at some alternative fuel sources. *better than to come up....

Sorry OP, that was bugging the shit out of me I can't understand how they can let people go to war and return without helping and preparing them psychologically to have a normal life. If they had an injury, they'd go to the hospital, ptsd should be seen as an injury and treated as such.  er, your TIFU gave me chills, I had a friend in the marines that was so traumatized from his exp in the war and took his life :(. I sincerely hope you two are able to speak again &lt;3 What about his family op? Can you reach out to any of them? wow...  sorry to hear that.

at least you didn't do what this girl did to my buddy...  jumped on his back for a race while he was drunk...  he stumbled, fell, and she lost her two front teeth.  :( This was one of those moments where as the reader, I felt embarrassed for you OP.  I just wanted to keep apologizing to every adult that I saw. All I hoping was that he did this as a prank for something you did to him far far back that you forgot, but after rereading where he was a regular, I lost all hope for this guy. It's all about the long con he spent years establishing himself as a regular so that he could one day enact his revenge upon dear op  The pg version of oldboy A good-ass movie but damn, the ending is hard to watch. That's one of those movies that stays with you. I think about it almost every day. It's some heavy shit man.

That being said, the Pg version would be hilarious. OP isn't even the target. OP is part of the setup for a different target.  &gt; I lost all hope for this guy.


Some people just can't handle LT.

 OP put dog poop in his shoes in kindergarten and has no recollection of the events i didnt know youre friends with barney stinson  Barney did get banned from laser tag....more signs point to barney stinsen http://i.imgur.com/CJHRWlU.jpg "I BROUGHT SOME STUFF SO YOU CAN TAC UP"   
Holy shit, it does sound like Barney. C'mon! Barney wore full suits when he played LT. Classic Shmosby your mistake was not leaving the *moment* he started acting inappropriately around other people.
 His mistake was showing up in the first place. his mistake was AGREEING to go in the first place. I don't understand how grown adult act like such pushovers and get themselves into situations like this. Some weirdo who you don't like asks you to go to lazer tag which you don't want to do? "No thanks, I'd rather not. Bye!" it's that simple. And this is coming from someone who used to be the world's biggest pushover, when I was a teenager and too timid to say no to anybody.  Because getting out of your bubble is how you make friends. I suppose the lesson would be to have a selective permeable bubble. Not that I am one to talk, I never get out of the bubble.  Twist: you are an adult. Jk, that sucks man. That's something out of tim and Eric  New Tim and Eric Bedtime Stories episode Plot twist: OP is the Tyler Durden of laser tag and you shouldn't be embarrassed for him. &gt;I haven't spoken to him since then. 

First rule of Lazer Club - We don't talk about Lazer Club.  You just broke the first and the second rule. Actually I think the first and second rules are no running and no touching other players. This makes sense. That explains why people got angry on him. OP dressed up the same clothes as Mark. It all makes sense, man. Is that because he wrote a fanfic episode of the American Office? Now I'm going to re-read the post, imagining OP and Mark as Jim and Dwight.  &gt;"WEWW! Well it looks like you and I are going to be playing some laser tag tonight."

That bit at least is a little more Nard-dog. YOU WILL BE DEAD IN NO TIME TUNA I literally did this the first time through due to the Office binge I went on two days ago. 4 season in about as many days. Yeup That's definitely a Jim/Dwight moment. First thing I thought of.  Shut up steamy pile, you're the worst employee here "SHUT UP ALEX, YOU ARE THE WORST EMPLOYEE HERE." 


Lmao  AMA request...Alex from LazerTag question #1:  "so, Alex from LazerTag, how do you feel about angry 12-year-old kids wearing man-suits?"

"or more specifically, do you recall a patron named...Mark?" :(

My name is Alex and I was employee of the month once at my job. 

Just once.  /r/alex

It's a quiet little sub but it's home for folks like you and me.  You make it sound so peaceful. Not like those assholes over at /r/chad  Not much there but boy am I happy this is a place!! Time to hate some Chads! We have feelings too...  It's ok. We know we are decent people. /chadhug I'm just happy that my /r/chimichangas is full of optimistic, happy people.  Peaceful. like an Arizona sunrise or a juniper wet with dew. A light rain in the middle of a dusty afternoon or a hug from your dear old aunt. Like an old sweater that keeps getting warmer with age. Subtle and mild. Mild, like that first splash of sun on an April morning. 

 This ~~coffee~~ sub is ~~coffee~~ sub the way it should be. Subbed* My name's Mark how do you think i feel? Apparently OP's coworker is Raffie For whatever reason I envisioned Will Ferrell saying this. Oh my god, I remember being ina  group of appropriately aged teenagers playing lazer tag in the 90's and having some random old weird guy join us. He took it SO seriously and completely unbalanced our teams.

His lazer tag tactic can only be described as an ass crab. The sensor points for lazer tag are on your shoulders and on your gun. This guy played the entire game bent over, with his ass in the air, shuffling around backwards while shooting people between his legs. 

It was a little offputting charging around the corner and running into creepy old ass-crab man. So basically he read Enders Game. [deleted] The comment or the fact that THEY TURNED IT INTO A MOVIE? Just wait until someone makes Speaker for The Dead. You know its going to happen. Looking forward to it man!
I think Chaning Tatum is introspective enough to play Ender. 
Novinha is totally Mila Kunis, maybe Scarlett Johansen.
Pipo and Libo are BOTH played by Bradley Cooper. Cue Oscar for makeup for that one.
Valentine is played by Aubrey Plaza.
Jane is voiced by Fran Dresser. 
There! Now I've set the bar for fucked up casting. Nothing Hollywood can do to the franchise would be worse that this right? Now nothing can disappoint me. The movie was straight garbage just sayin' They could've at least made it 2 parts so it didn't feel rushed. I refuse to watch the movie. Dude was so dedicated he even had his brother and sister come with him. They would sit off in a corner and argue geopolitical philosophy the whole time. That seems totally normal for a grown man to do. You kids didn't even thank him for teaching you the ways of LT. And you were super mean to me, I mean him. Its funny because where I used to play he would just be exposing the giant fucking sensor on his back to be shot at His back wasn't even visible, it was like this: 

* [imgur](http://i.imgur.com/9R3595R.jpg)

* [same image](http://image.shutterstock.com/display_pic_with_logo/66756/66756,1324944049,1/stock-photo-a-faceless-man-in-a-blue-body-suit-bent-over-looking-backwards-between-his-legs-91504628.jpg) but original location in case imgur one gets removed for copyright. How the hell did you find that picture? What did you google? LMAO "bent over looking through legs" There were a few decent options but the bodysuit one accurately portrays the horror of the crab. "ass crab" Oh god I guess I misunderstood.

As an aside, that is the most creepy position I can think of for someone coming at me in lazertag The blue bodysuit makes this so much creepier. We call that tabletopping in the trade, I've always found it hard not to laugh at players who do it &gt;They had the "God damnit, he didn't die this week." look on their faces. 

I'm glad I'm not the only one who feels like that sometimes.  I think we all have that. I had one older coworker who was just the most arrogant, lazy, aggressive piece of shit I've ever met. He claimed to have a shitload of experience, while being unable to do simple tasks (like copy-past level simple). If you corrected him, or disagreed, regardless of who did it (got all pissy with our Information Officer), he would get extremely defensive and aggressive for an unknown reason. He also spent the first 4-5 hours of his day sitting at his PC either staring at a blank screen or googling houses in Texas.  
 It's amazing how some people get to a certain level. My place hired an experienced Oracle/UNIX/C contractor for $90/hour(his own company, so he pocketed it all) for an Oracle/UNIX/C application - sounds good to me. We really needed a person to maintain that (well documented)application while our department was busy with a new project. I was still a pretty green programmer and showed him the development box, build environment, basic application etc. After months, he never got it. He couldn't build , complete a release, understand the shell scripts or pretty much anything. I had to do everything or at least point him in the right direction. It was as bad when you point to the piece of food you threw your cat and he can't see it. He was frequently on the phone talking to his accountant about what stuff he could write-off or some other aspect of not paying taxes on his $90/hour job. That part I was impressed with. Maybe he got so far because people like you keep helping him. Throw people like that under the bus. Googling houses in Texas.....wat Idiot Before this guy gets massive amounts of downvotes read his username. But...but what about yours? Just make sure you sprinkle some salt and the cupcakes should turn out alright I suppose. Did he ever move to Texas?

OP I need closure I have that with my mirror I work at a laser tag place.


I can verify, people like Mark in this story do exist, and I can verify that they do tend to smell like they haven't showered in a few days, and they always seem to come in to play whenever I'm working. Or they just come in every single day, even when I'm not there. It's actually very likely that they do. Shut up Alex, and get back to work.  No shit, he is the worst employee there. I imagine someone like Mark smelling like hand sanitizer to be honest, like a hospital or a sickly chemical smell? Whenever I go I'm always respectful and friendly to the staff, and avoid kids games like the plague. 

You guys do an awesome day to day job dealing with all sorts, so from a stranger who loves to play Laser, I appreciate what you and your staff do. 

And fuck the guy in OP's story, people like that are a headache for _everyone_ This sounds exactly like an episode of The Office (U.S.) with OP as Jim Halpert and Mark as Dwight Schrute  About halfway through I realised I was picturing Mark as Dwight. I ended up picturing him as Barney from how I met our mother from the start.  &gt;ended up

&gt;from the start

Something doesn't add up &gt; Barney from how I met our mother

Brother, is it you? I pictured him as a Will Farrel character. Hilarious. You guys are all wrong, he's clearly the Cable Guy. I thought How I Met Your Mother.  Didn't Barney actually *do* this? Minus the tactical gear, yeah. What if Mark doesn't actually exist and is a figment of your imagination like in *Fight Club*?

Makes sense as to why others were giving you death stares and getting mad at *you* and not "Mark". Well that explains the old drink in the face... *twilight zone soundtrack* This story is amazing, but I just have to say - if a grown ass man came up to me and invited me to laser tag, I'd be all over that shit.  Once did it with my rugby team.  Hell yeah. Lasertag is fun as hell, but I'd either need to go with a party of adults or have some excuse(like bringing your kid) to go without feeling like a dick being an adult playing against kids. You kidding me? I for the life of me can't get a higher score than my 10 year old cousin. 12 years older than him and he shoots the shit out of my entire team everytime. I'm 22 and I shit on little kids in laser tag.  You're doing it wrong. Don't sweat it, those kids will fucking own you. I once played laser tag with everyone in their 20s, the people who worked there made it so much more fun by letting us do things I never could do as a kid.

They were like, EVEYRONE TO THE LOBBY, so everyone is just out in the lobby/arcade machine area.

EVERYONE TO THE PARKING LOT, and we are in parking lot.

EVERYONE TO ORIENTATION AREA, and then it's like 15 people in a 10x5 meter room just point blanking each other for a bit. For a while me and my adult friends would go play about once a month.  If you go late enough at night parents really cant get mad at you for being there because they are the dicks who have there 10 year old out at 11:30 on a school night.

One time we went there and they were closed for a private event but said come back at 12 and they will stay open till 2 and gave us a few free games.

We went back at 12 and now its only adults and a few real players.  They had keys they would put in their vest that would give them their own name and track their stats.  The first few games we just got dominated by the regulars who where calling out military manuvers.  Then the employes started to play and we did different game types.

First it was reality.  This was the best.  They turned off all the music so its dead quite in the arena.  And as the name sounds one shot and your done.  So instead of running around like an idiot you are just hiding and waiting or moving as quitely as possible.  And before the match the team would meet up for a game plan.  It was so much fun.

Other games were vampires and zombies where you start with one zombie and every time the zombie shoots you you become a zombie.  

The whole night was a blast and the last game one of my  friends beat the cockiest of the regulars (call sign; 9ball) I went and played laser tag last weekend with a bunch of friends.  It was great.   Yeah Jim, it was great. NSA meeting in the open now? Sir this is a private meeting. You need to go wait over there. I don't think you're NSA... I work at a laser tag arena.  You would not believe the number of fully grown adults that come with their fully grown friends, completely sober, to enjoy some mother fucking laser tag.  That shit is awesome.

Luckily we have never had this asshole show up. I used to work at a Laser Tag arena as well. Weekend nights were full of drunk/stoned adults, which wasn't super terrible, just kind of funny to watch.

The worst was "members night" because it was like an entire team of Marks being dicks to the employees all night. 

If anyone ever tells you they're on a laser tag team, they might even call it NAC (national arena championship) run the fuck away, because they are crazy.  Sounds like some shit Alex would say Yeah, I was gonna say... Laser tag is the bomb. There aren't many places where it's socially acceptable to shoot at every child you see! You gotta enjoy that wherever you can. Marines? Just sprinkle some Qur'an on them "Chad, you killed a kid!"

"I'm sorry Dave, I didn't know I couldn't do that." &amp;#3232;_&amp;#3232; Like you've never wanted to shoot a kid center mass. Tag ball.  It's like laser tag but with paintball guns that shoot hard rubber balls. Plenty of kids and the opportunity to legally inflict pain on them. &gt; Once did it with my rugby team. 

I'm not judging you or your sex life but what does this have to do with laser tag?

Obligatory Gold Edit; So many upvotes, I feel like the target at a rugby team's bukkake party and I even got a golden shower out of it. I am blessed. Thanks! Does anyone have a towel? Well, just like *'LT'* it happened in the dark and there were Black Lights. And everyone rushes to the one with extra range and accuracy? I shot them with my laser underneath the black lights, duh.  There was much rejoicing. "Through winter, they were forced to *eat* Robin's minstrels..." "... And there was much rejoicing. (Yeeeeeeey!)" Nearly 30. My buddies and I played laser tag two weeks ago. It was hella fun. The bald Russian made everything awkward during the safety talk when the black family couldn't understand what the employee was saying. The Russian walks over and slaps the narles Barkley looking dad on the shoulder and says in his thickly accented russian, "just shoot the white people." They got quiet fast.  Get out of here Mark. I would agree to it, until I saw the guy dressed as Seal Team Six. This confused me, I wasn't aware that laser tag was mostly a kids' thing. I went once, and it was mostly groups of adults there. Fuck yeah. Me and my gf found out there was a laser tag place by her new place and are super excited to go one of these days &gt; Mark takes off into the darkness like he is some sort of special forces soldier with the United Autism Army
  
lol I fucking lost it Immediately made me think of this (1999):

http://www.theonion.com/articles/clinton-deploys-very-special-forces-to-iraq,645/ "The C-130 short plane". 

This is pretty great. It gave me the *perfect* mental image of Mark. Dwight Shrute What kind of job do you have? Does Mark Have?  I'm going to go with phone support of some sort. OP is clearly an aspiring short story writer. Idk, I know a couple of guys who I could imagine doing this. He likes to tape up the sensors when he plays so no one can shoot him.

These days I hear he's banned from most of the arenas in Scotland.  Please Hahaha this is brilliant! props for keeping your cool OP

Tell him to try paintball, probably a bit more adult and not as creepy as "LT"
there's loads of crazy paintball enthusiasts too  Something tells me paintball would be too scary for Mark. If I can organise paintball as my bucks day event, a Shit bag like Mark can man up and get a tonne of bruises. Send Mark against ISIS DUDE YOU CAN'T FUCKING STAND THERE WHILE I'M RELOADING WITH YOUR FINGER ON SOME KIND OF DETONA- Some people just cant handle a little TNT "Oh a piece of candy! Oh a piece of candy!..." Dude.  Can I trade a camel for a cake? I think everyone knows a "Mark". Mark is a pretty cool guy, eh plays LT and doesn't afraid of anything. Oh wow, it's been a while. Nice. Exactly how i felt. But the real question is, has anyone been far as decided to use even go want to do look more like?  I often find myself asking "have you ever had a dream that you um, you had your, you, you could, youll do, you, you wants, you, you could do so, you , youll do, you could, you, you want, you want him to do you so much you could do anything?" &gt;Doesnt afraid of anything

Yes The amount of people who may just actually not understand that reference astounds me. I think halo is a pretty cool guy. Eh kills aleins and doesnt afraid of anything NO YOU HAVE TO LET THEM FIGURE IT OUT ON THEIR OWN My "Mark" is literally named Mark.  Meanwhile, every Mark reading this is now sweating profusely.  Mark is Dwight, now OP needs to step up and be Jim The Mark I know likes to bang 19 year old girls and drink on the job and he has one of those douchey annoying laughs. After careful consideration of the 19-year old girls I have banged, I have concluded that, in general, I like to bang 19-year-old girls and I really do quite like to drink on the job, especially before a presentation.  

It's hard to tell whether my laugh is douchey from inside my own head though.
 Just laughed uncontrollably at "special forces soldier with the United Autism Army." Nicely told story. I'm a "high functioning" autistic person. I still think this shit is funny, but remember that folks like this, as weird as they may be, are just people. Really, really weird people. My son has autism and I can sometimes be overly defensive about things, but that was pretty damn funny.  http://imgur.com/z88kUsA http://i.imgur.com/8OE8gJ6.jpg I've known quite a few Marks/Dwights in my life and got sucked into their escapades because I'm nice, and I've ended up going on humiliating adventures with them like the OP did. It didn't help that I wasn't popular in elementary/junior high/high school so I found myself in situations where it was either hang out with a Mark or hang out with no one. 

Anyway, the rule for interacting with social outcasts is that there are two groups: ones that *deserve* to be outcasts (because they are completely oblivious to how much they hurt/bother people) and ones that don't. Marks fall into the former category. Being friendly to a Mark is an exercise in futility as he'll never change, drag you down, humiliate you and piss you off in the process. The last time I hung out with a Mark like this was about eight years ago and I ended up stealing shopping carts with him, smoking really bad pot (I think he sprayed Windex on it) and getting punched in the head by someone Mark pissed off (all in the same night!) 

Just to clarify, I don't think Mark deserves to be friendless. He just deserves friends who are on his level. If you think grown men dressing up in tactical gear and playing "LT" is weird then avoid Marks like the plague as they live for that shit.  I've had many "Marks" in my lifetime and one of the worst things about being friendly towards them is that, because you're friendly, they think you're two are the bests of friends. They immediately cling to your nuts. "hey u wanna hang out today" This is what Barney Stintson would be like in real life Mark sounds like Will Ferrel in "Stepbrothers".  Much respect OP for staying calm in that situation. And you considered his mental well-being despite the trouble and embarrassment he caused you, doing so probably kept it from becoming an even bigger FU I bet Mark is just drowning in pussy Yes every day he goes home to his 10 cats that he loves Yeah but he makes em TAC UP before they fuck. Yes, in his kiddy rape dungeon Jesus, that went dark quickly. Well, it could be worse. He could have been a rapist. Maybe he was just out of candy. Ive never used candy to rape anybody. Do tell. Candy can be exchanged for sexual favors. A laser rapist. Was it legen... *wait for it*... ...dary? Today you fucked up because you had the opportunity to spare yourself when he goes on a spree and shoots up the work place. Now you're going to be number one on his hit list, all because you couldn't play it cool for an evening of laser tag. RIP OP. you must be a real pushover, dude. Can't you say "I'm not into that, I'm going home after work"? OP was secretly thrilled to be invited to laser tag. Dude I'm nearly 30 and I love laser tag, also at our local places the average age is around 20-21, so it doesn't seem like it's rally only for kids. Of course, if he went to one of those family fun places that has laser tag as one of many overpriced activities for hyper-active children, I could see the problem. I played laser tag with a whole group of grown ass men after work. Ranging in age from 25 to 55. It was a "team building exercise". We had a great time. Yeah, it's great to go with a group of people you know.


If you go alone as an adult, you're much more likely to be playing against a bunch of kids at some kid's birthday party.  this sounds like a Mitchell &amp; Webb plot I'm having the hardest time believing this story. Is this real life? It's a bit too *Cable Guy* funny to be real. &gt;what grown ass man would ask another grown ass man to go play laser tag?

The best kind of a grown ass man cant hate on lazer tag.


 I got to "United Autism Army", and fucking died. So OP met Barney Stinson and he's secretly Ted Mosby?  this reminds me of 'the cable guy'. That scene where jim carrey takes Matt Broderick to medieval times. This reads like a made up story. Fuck yea, I want to hang out with Mark! He sounds awesome Pamela Anderson's tits are less fake than this story. Thank you.  Amazing how far down I had to go for the first post to realize this is bullshit. Is this what gets you guys off? I will always be completely dumbfounded by the folks who are always compelled to pop into a thread and tear down the OP for making shit up.

The story was fucking entertaining, who gives a shit if it was embellished or an exercise in creative writing.

Honestly what is the end game for you guys? Do you treat the people close to you the same way?

"I caught a 3 foot fish the last time I was on that lake"  
"Fucking bullshit! That fish was 16.453 inches and you fucking know it asshole!"

You're a complete buzzkill man, lighten up a little. Doesn't 'get me off'.

Not trying to be a buzzkill and I didn't come close to the specificity you mention.

The story wasn't entertaining - I wasn't offended by it but characterizing a strange person as someone who is in 'the autism army' for laughs is not funny - it's base generalization and humorless.

I don't really care if the story is a lie or not - I didn't lose any sleep over it and didn't think 'ha, gotcha!' - it's simply this - if you're going to write a story like that at least put some effort into making it funny and write it in a way that sounds believable.

You should probably take your own advice and lighten up a little. [deleted] Part of the appeal  and humor of TIFU is that the stories we are reading are real. I wouldn't even be reading any of these stories if I knew they were fake.

So yeah, some people FUCKING care. right.  The business would just refuse him service, esp. considering their main draw is kids. Maybe, but not necessarily. My friend worked in a laser tag place. Plenty of groups of adults would play, which isn't a problem. Occasionally single adults would come in and ruin kids birthday parties. The parents would complain but unless they violated the "rules" they couldn't kick them out. Whether the tactical gear and drink thrown on him is real though I dont know.  &gt;The parents would complain but unless they violated the "rules" they couldn't kick them out.

Actually, they don't really need much of a reason to refuse service to someone. That sounds lovely, where do you play. Down here youd have people threaten to sue over stupid crap like that. Isn't kind of illegal to refuse service 'just because'? Like seriously, educate me because I thought you cant refuse service unless the person is being disruptive or derogatory.  &gt;That sounds lovely, where do you play. Down here youd have people threaten to sue over stupid crap like that. Isn't kind of illegal to refuse service 'just because'? Like seriously, educate me because I thought you cant refuse service unless the person is being disruptive or derogatory. 

??  I didn't say that I played laser tag.  IANAL, but for the most part, a business can refuse service to those not under a protected class if they have a good reason.  I don't see how what you're describing *isn't* disrupted behavior.  If you're acting like an ass to the rest of the customers, the business has every right to kick you out.  They just don't always do this for fear of being sued, as you've stated.

See here: https://www.legalzoom.com/articles/the-right-to-refuse-service-can-a-business-refuse-service-to-someone-because-of-appearance Are you sure Mark isn't Dwight Schrute? I imagined everything Mark said in Dwight's voice. Go back to your beet farm, Dwight, nobody wants you here I keep thinking I'm in /r/thatHappened  That's essentially what /r/tifu is.

It is the new FML combined with a strong MLIA vibe. Way too many parts of this story just smack of bs to me. "oh, just enjoy it, it's the internet"
-Benjamin Franklin "If you can't handle me at my worst,  then you can just suck a dick" ~Mother Theresa   Gotta love Benjamin. My favorite singer on the internet. "Shut up and hoot!" - Bender &gt; Way too many parts of this story just smack of bs to me.

No, that's what makes me think it's true. It can't not be real! This entire sub makes me think that. it reads like something from out of a sitcom Yeah who the hell would actually believe a line like
&gt;"SHUT UP ALEX, YOU ARE THE WORST EMPLOYEE HERE." 

Oh, the 1k+ people who upvoted the comment? -.- Maybe no-one but you cares? Cares about being gullible?  Literally anything here could be made up. It could also have happened. Just because your life isn't interesting doesn't mean others don't have bizarre events happen around them. Just enjoy it for what it is, a story, it might be embellished a little, entirely fake or it might be completely real. Why does any of that matter to you? You weren't there, so how can you judge whether it's real or not? Just relax and have fun. So yes, about being gullible. I'm sure much of it is exaggerated for dramatic effect, but I wouldn't be surprised if he met some aggressive internet dweller who wanted to play laser tag.  But there was no applause?! It was creative and made me laugh my ass off. That's all what matters to me.  While reading I imagined Dwight Shrute... While I totally agree this guy is a bit of a bizarro, laser tag can be a pretty grown up activity if you're with the right group at the right place. Was this one of those family fun centers that offers a bunch of overpriced options of a dedicated laser tag place?  Hey Guys, I found Mark Now now, I don't scream at the little children that are beating me at laser tag.

I put that tac gear to use and get the drop on them. No mere child can defeat me.  Barney Stinson's your co-worker? This is bollux. 

An exaggerated version of what happens with Barney essentially in HIMYM This. Next week mark will try to tee-pee the joint  Haha... for real.

Maybe a few months later he will come back with his future dad in law and try to use it as a bonding session, only to realise they are sworn laser tag enemies, with kids as their armies.  I don't think this happened. I don't think you said that.
 [Come on, he's been on Reddit for 18 days. I think we can trust him.](http://img.pandawhale.com/73369-I-dont-believe-you-gif-HD-Imgu-qUVu.gif) Yesterday I went bear hunting but stumbled across Jennifer Lawrence who begged me to have sex with her.  I tipped my tribly and politely declined as she had recently had one drink and I didn't want to take advantage of her in her current state.   I then strangled a bear and wore its coat for warmth.  You can trust me.  I've been a redditor multiple years. I'd say on the scale of outlandish TIFU's, it's fairly believable. Also, just in my personal experience, I've seen enough people freak out over absolutely nothing to find this believable. THE KARMA HAPPENED THOUGH MOTHERFUCKER! He couldn't have made this up.  No he absolutely could have and almost definitely did.  Replace laser tag with candlepin bowling/the batting cages/go-karts and it's more or less the same story. So there I was... me, Brian Williams, and OP in this laser tag establishment...Lasers flying everywhere, children's parents looking at us like they wished we had died last week.  You guys won't believe how it ends...the guy that brought us there was our socially awkward coworker...AND WE DIDNT EVEN WANT TO GO WITH HIM THAT BAD!!! Why do all you sticklers even care if it's made up or not? It's a good story either way. Why can't you just enjoy it without assuming everything, including the color the sun, is made up? The color of the sun is made up? He could have. It's The Office fanfic. It really does read like The Office fanfic, including throwaway line at the end of the scene. I would put a large amount of money on it Doesn't this happen in an episode of How I Met Your Mother? Mmm the one with the Murdock list, they end up covering up the LT place with TP :) TIL im the weird guy I don't get why people ITT don't like Mark. He sounds like the life of the party. Do you, by any chance, work at Goliath National Bank? Will Ferral and Paul Rudd need to make this into a movie... Its gold and dear god /u/hopeistayhidden im glad you went.

Now everyone around the office keeps yelling TAC UP PUSSY. So thanks for that. I actually pictured Zach Galifianakis as Mark Is your weird friend, Dwight Schrute? I feel Dwight would have more insults directed at Jim about his ability to maneuver than anything else XD "no thanks man, i'm not really interested in laser tag" - there, that would have fixed it for you. I used to be a pushover like this. Gotta be an ass to some people. "No mark, I'm staying at home and not doing anything because those are my plans. Go play army with the 12 year olds." #standyourground  When my husband and I moved into our brand-new house, he knelt down to put something in the bottom of the pantry and farted right into the natural gas/carbon monoxide detector. First day on the job and it just couldn't cope. I've never seen an alarm go off like that. We had to throw it out and get another new one. *it just couldn't cope*
 It literally couldn't even. I laughed so much harder at this comment than at OP. Hidden gem among the comments right here. I should have filed a warranty claim just to see what the company's response would be. Yeah seems like a shitty device Definitely stinks of poor craftsmanship.  The olfactory should be shut down. ^ this comment is amazing, and everyone nose it This is totally offpoint but where was your carbon monoxide detector? There's only one in my house and it's in the upstairs hallway about 5' off the ground. I lack the receptor to smell the mercaptan additive that makes the natural gas odor, so we had detectors placed all throughout the house. This one was plugged into a wall outlet in the kitchen. How did you even find fint out? I've been very lucky. Apparently about 10% of people can't smell the additive to some degree, and apparently it's genetic. When I was in high school, a malfunctioning gas line prompted our entire neighborhood to be evacuated by the fire department - and I couldn't smell a thing.

Years later my husband came home to our then-apartment, which was filled with gas, and I was sitting there oblivious. I saw an ENT and he said a lot of people just can't smell it. The husband was a chemist at the time so we had fun tracking down which compounds did what. I can barely smell skunks and I don't smell livestock much, but I previously thought it was occupational olfactory fatigue. In all other areas except mercaptans, I'm practically a bloodhound. And unfortunately I can tell when he's had Chipotle for lunch.

Ever since my inability to detect a gas leak was confirmed, we've been religious about having multiple natural gas detectors. ~~Carbon monoxide sinks~~, so a detector should be low/closer to the ground.

EDIT: i was mistaken! CO doesn't sink, i was just confused by the fact that many companies recommend placing CO detectors closer to the floor and NOT on the ceiling (like you would a smoke detector). 5' off the floor is typical. RIP me CO is slightly lighter than air. 
CO has a molar mass of 28.0, and air has an average molar mass of 28.8. The difference is so slight that CO is found to evenly distribute itself indoors. I'm just imagining it happening like he bends down and it's all like

Pfttttt  

*sniff/sense* D:

BEEP AHHHHHHHH Oooh man, I haven't laughed this hard in ages, thank you! I lost it at "just couldn't cope" [deleted] Got a hairy Jew with IBS? This is why I read the comments  Well, there *was* a gas leak Methane got into the house one way or the other.  If they actually found out it was methane in the house, everyone would be suspicious because the house is supplied normally with propane. Once my daughter fed a lot of leftover coleslaw to the dog while we were camping.  Middle of the night his fart set off the LP gas detector.  
 When I was pretty young I set off a CO and poisonous gas detector with a fart.

Everyone in the house evacuated because we thought it might have just been a coincidence. Impressive. I once nearly asphyxiated my wife when I farted in my sleep. I woke up to her choking and had to bring her to fresh air. She puked after she could catch her breath. Is she still with you? If so, she's a trooper. By a thread but yes. Time to buy some new rope. That is my ultimate dream. To make my SO physically sick with a fart.  Pulled pork in a slow cooker. Add Sriracha and boy, you got yourself an atomic bomb cooking. I had farted at work as well and that shit traveled. I had my service advisor chasing me around a can of febreeze because I gased him out from 30 feet away through closed doors.

Fucking delicious pork but my wife vowed to never do that combo again because of me. Is it bad that I'm sort of jealous of everyone setting off alarms and detectors with their farts? I want to try it now. One time, after Christmas dinner, my Mom ripped one so bad the car alarm went off. We were in the car driving on the highway when this happened. /r/tharhappened This thread is full of that Wonderful, just wonderful. LOLOLL
 I lol'ed.  Thanks! I guess it was an inside job. Looks like we got a sulfur leak in here too And soon they'll find out their propane tank isn't leaking. And naturally will wonder what has happened, and they will realize the BF is an asshole who farted and instead of telling the truth, decided to stay quiet, inconveniencing everyone.  Well, boyfriend's asshole was definitely involved. I am crying! they feared for their safety because of a gas leak, literally. Silent butt deadly  I'd have payed more attention in grade school if fire safety was taught with this story Yeah me toot. Better get as fart as possible from the house These puns are a real gas Badum tush

(The drum sound after a bad joke) Thanks for the clarifartcation. I just got wind of this and had to throw in my poo scents!

Edit: spelling I wonder if OP's girlfriend can keep secrets...if OP comes clean to her do you sphincter parents will find out too? I bet shortly they'll be colon her on the phone to bitch her out for it. &gt; Edit: smelling

FTFY Ah shit! I think we're out now.  I believe that's called a "rim job". It's called a rim shot Rim shart, actually What if the mother knew it was a fart, and being the biggest bro in the world she faked the propane tank story to save OP the embarrassment?

 This would be so glorious. Next day OP gets a text from the mom saying "You do that again and I might not be able to cover for you next time." &gt; "You do that again and I might not be able to cover ~~for you~~ your ass next time."

 Actually she just happened to fart at exactly the same time and thought it was her. Nope! Moms don't give a shit. 

Source: have wife, she is a mom.  Or was testing him to see if he would man up. Who knows what could have happened if they spent a few more minutes breathing in those fumes  No need to cry, im sure everyone survived. http://drmcninja.com/archives/comic/0p3/ Silent but violent.  Dude, if your fart smells worse than propane you should see someone... Technically, propane doesn't have a smell. It's odorless. They add /u/c1804's farts to the tanks so that if it has a leak, you can smell it. He could make a profit out of his ass. The oldest profession.

 Had to think about that one for a minute, but you're correct. Is it wrong that I thought it was a reference about anal before manure?

Are any of those even the right answer??? Profassion http://i.imgur.com/n6DvXqm.png Fire official: "We investigated thoroughly, and while our monitors detected mildly elevated methane levels in the kitchen, there doesn't appear to be any danger.  You were wise to cross the street and call us."

[Device beeps]

"Hang on, there seems to be a source in the immediate vicinity..."

[Waves device in a slow arc; beeping intensifies as it is pointed at OP]

[Everyone turns and looks at OP, who becomes red in the face and grows extremely uncomfortable.]

Fire official: "Are you fucking kidding me?" Then OP farts again!

*laught track plays Cue yakety sax while the fireman chases him around the firetruck. Girlfriend tilts her head to the side and puts her hand on her hips "Ooooh, OP."

::cue laugh track:: -Created by Chuck Lorre Too Many Cooks.... TOO MANY COOKS! And everybody dies. That would be a useful device. I suggest you Kickstart this for 1 million dollars, create enthusiastic PR videos by hiring actors and disappear once you inevitably get 300% of your asking price. Wait what stops people from just taking kickstarter money and running? I'm not an expert, but I don't think anything stops people from doing this Interesting...had no idea. Never wondered about it till now.  Nothing, it's happened before. you take this one to the grave brah. 

If you marry this girl, you tell the best man and he includes it in his wedding speech.
 Those are opposite things.  Depends on how you view marriage. Heh Good to know the NSA has a sense of humor. The second one is a warning. Murders-suicide instead of the first dance. As a man on a mostly protien diet (dem protien farts), I sympathize with you. As a firefighter, you suck.  As a firefighter, does it really bother you when a call is a false alarm? I'd see it as just a fun ride in the truck.

On the other hand, you probably have a lot of adrenaline built up, and I can see it as kind of disappointing when you have no place to use it.

Do firemen get boners from excitement before a fire? I would. Then I'd probably get blue-balls a lot from false alarms. &gt;Do firemen get boners from excitement before a fire?  I would.  Then I'd probably get blue-balls a lot from false alarms.

That is freaking hilarious!  Now every time I see a fire truck with its lights and siren on I will be thinking it is filled with guys with hard-ons and start laughing.  Which will be OK if I'm alone but if someone is with me I wouldn't want to have to explain my laughter. &gt;Now every time I see a fire truck with its lights and siren on I will be thinking it is filled with guys with hard-ons

Damn, and I thought firemen couldn't get any sexier.

 Yea... there's something about a bunch of greased up, boner packing firemen that just makes my vagina dry heave in anticipation... Are they supposed to dry heave, vaginas? Seems like a question for Askscience. I'm both turned on and disgusted You sure have a lot of energy If I'm pumped up before a fire, hell yes! When I'm at home, I have a boner for an entirely different reason. Responding to and returning from emergencies is actually one of the most dangerous things a Firefighter does.  BS calls are just unnecessary risk.  
If OP pulled me aside and told me it was just his fart his secret would be safe with me (and my crew). so.. driving? I have gone too deep in a subreddit... Need update on the result of the fire department investigation!

Plot Twist: Dad's an avid Redditor and sees this, then purposely feeds you fiber rich products upon each visit to ensure the joke on his wife continues, and to torment daughters new boyfriend. 
It's devious and he feels like he should come out and tell the truth, but it's just so damn funny and no one that emits a sarin gas mixed with skunk spray deserves to be with my little princess.


I have no idea where i was going with that. I'm so bored at work! Are you the dad? Welcome to Reddit, you're gonna do just fine here. That username though.... This is when you blow up the propane tanks to cover up your lie. &gt; This is when you blow up the propane tanks to cover up your lie.

You missed an opportunity.

This is when you blow up the propane tanks to cover your ass. Farts can have a smell unique to the farter and a fart a month from now might smell like the one that caused this fuss. Pair that with the effect of smell and memory and you could be in real trouble if you fart again on front of any of those people. 
"When my wife called the fire department, it was really you. What kind of man let's someone call the fire department when they fart? " Wouldn't they have remembered what the previous propane leak actually smelled like in that case? Plot twist: previous propane leak was actually the father's fart.  What if each one was one of the family members farting but they were all too embarrassed to admit it? I bet last time it was the mother. That's why she was so vehement about it being propane this time. Have you ever been compared to George Costanza? So what is the plan if you need to fart again? Ones that potent usually come in waves. omg tell me about it... every time i go to my girls house we lay down in the bed and watch movies. for some reason when I'm laying down I always have to fart terribly. and when I hold it in, it just comes back and back one after another. So I chug a bunch of water so I can excuse my self to go to the bathroom, but when I fucking stand up... IT GOES AWAY!!! I cant freaking fart. Then when I get back I lay back down... and it comes back again... grueling terrible pain. Its kind of early in the relationship and I haven't broken that fart barrier yet.. boy how did I do it in the past? This is mans worse fear. At least for me. On the other hand one of my best friends breaks that barrier on first date. Quite funny actually. Just lay down on the bathroom floor when you go in to pee. Or sit to pee causing some pressure in your GI system. Do some squats in there. You can work those farts out!  I'm pretty sure this is a bigger girl problem than "man's worse fear". Girls can NEVER fart in front of their bfs and sometimes you've got to just release! Of course, it's probably just the girl's insecurity more than the boy would be bothered, but it's just not ladylike.

The girl will probably pull an icky face and go ew gross but she won't dump you unless she's an uptight bitch for having to toot haha :) I was on a date with a woman once, and we were at a bar. *Someone* nearby let out a really stinky fart. I was mortified that she thought it was me who did it, so I made some weird faces and fanned the air...cause you know, that would mean it wasn't me, right?

Turns out, she had no sense of smell so had no idea why I was acting like such a spaz. It also turns out....it was HER who farted!

Been married 17 years now. She still farts like a Greek sailor. Hank Hill would see right through this rouse.
 This happened to me at a pizzeria I worked at. Boss thought the stove was leaking. No, just me having a cheese steak stuffed with onion rings and bacon for breakfast.  How'd the triple bypass go? Fortunately, I lost my ability to work 72 hour work weeks before I lost the option of all-you-can-eat pizzeria food six days a week. Still miss deepfrying strips of bacon in clam fry for a snack.  I have strong feelings of disapproval for the frivolous use of the emergency services. However, this was so cringe-worthy I was just grateful on your behalf that they went with it. It's frivolous until a propane tank blows up in your face. Ha. I have no problems with the family; but if the OP had spoken up? And yet I am sincerely relieved that he didn't. Now we just need the FD guy who has the propane sniffer to come on and say he went on a call and it was just a fart.  The sniffer is real.  Had a leak once in my clothes dryer and they used this wand and found it The fart would be too dissipated by then.  You can set it off by farting into the meter though, we tried it. everyone who has had access to a sniffer did the same, but it's not fun until you eat Mexican food (extra beans and Cheese)  then chart or shart your results!  At least it was a silent one. At least it was a dry one. We hope. This just in: Hope studies show that this man shat his pants. Hey man, my brother  had an eating raw broccoli phase and he had one those rotten egg farts on time at an arcade and that smelled really bad. It didn't help the fact that the arcade was over populated by the stereotypical gamer guys that don't shower..?the next week the place closed down. Their lease was up and they didn't want to renew it but I like to think it was cause his fart.. At least you know what a potato is  what an eggcellent story. I have a new goal in life: fart and make the fire department come out. You set your sights too low my friend.  I am going for the full-blown hazmat incident. I shall one up you and make the CDC declare a nation wide emergency. Best laugh of the week! Thanks! They knew.  Look at it this way; maybe there actually was a gas leak and everyone just started smelling it when you farted, and if you had said "No, that was just me." then the real gas leak could've caused a catastrophe. You fart propane and propane accessories. Advice: next time, fart in their face to assert your alpha male dominance Oh Fatty McGee, you're the fattest! lmfao never say a word, and tell this to your child as a bonding story. It's gold baby! Gold! This is beyond impressive. I've cleared small rooms with my expulsions, but to clear a house AND have 911 called? 

Give this man a medal. Plot twist:  Mom knew it was OP ripping ass the whole time and called the fire department to embarrass him.   I'm sorry, but the correct thing to do would've been to tell them you farted. Somebody could've died because the fire department was covering *your* ass... just saying. Imagine knowing you indirectly killed someone with a fart. Woah.  changes the whole meaning of "silent but killer" If you two ever get married, this will make a great story at your wedding.  If you ever marry her tell this story at your wedding PLEASE I remember a TIFU like this: http://www.reddit.com/r/tifu/comments/2h7ueb/tifu_by_attempting_to_pass_a_silent_fart_in_my/ Not saying you will, but if you ever have a nasty break up with her, make sure to tell them then. "Remember that time? That was actually my fart." The day I managed to evacuate a house with a fast would be one of the proudest days of my life! This was not a FU, but a magnificent achievement! Ammonium Sulfide is the egg compound.  Nice work son.  Generally those tend to scorch the nozzle upon evacuation.   Sitting in a bar killing time waiting for a friend to appear, the bar now thinks I'm batshit crazy for guffawing at this...why did I come onto TIFU when I'm somewhere I can't laugh out loud in peace.... Something about this whole story stinks.   Tell them the truth and then give us an update. That is the funniest thing I have ever heard. HAHA! What did you eat? If it makes you feel better my dog did that once too  TIFU the title of my tifu post I have this strange condition that I love to drive, I'm fine riding shotgun but riding in back makes me sick.  I was 16 with my girlfriend, her dad, and his girlfriend driving from West Virginia to Illinois.  Dad and the girlfriend sat up front, I in back, so inevitably I start getting gas.  I finally had to let one big one out and everyone was like, My God, what is that?  Even I was speechless, you know it's bad when even you, the farter, start thinking "man, Do I have cancer or something?"  They finally said hey, ride up front, but it was too late, I had to hear them bitching from WV to IL.  Ten hours of "Oh my God".  At least they didn't leave me stranded on the side of the road.    *They Knew* I don't understand how people won't just excuse themselves to the bathroom and then fart there... What if they FIND a leak, and you saved them from death! Wow.  That stinks. One time on a backpacking trip I got a bad case of the silent-but-deadlies in the middle of the night, but it was too cold &amp; I was too lazy to take it outside the tent.  The next morning the girl I was with was like "did you smell last night? I think the gas tanks sprung a leak but I couldn't find anything wrong with them".  Then after I told her what actually happened she responded with something like "Are you serious?!  I thought we were gonna die!" I was at a friends house couple years ago and we were playing a game. I felt some massive rumbles and eased out a fart that felt like it went on for a whole minute.  I had to take it slow so it would come out silently. I almost lost it from holding in my laughter.  After it all came out I smelled it. It was the most horrible smell of death and decay. I'm silently laughing and gagging waiting for it to reach my friend. He's talking to me about the game we're playing then just stops mid sentence. I can see the realization on his face. He starts to yell at me but gags instead. I'm dying laughing. He jumps up gagging and rechting, forces his window open, and jumps out onto his roof. He starts gasping for air and yelling at me. I'm still laughing and basking in the ambience enjoying every minute. He finally comes back Inside and makes a beeline for his bathroom to grab his febreeze. When he comes back he unloads almost the whole can and turns on his fan to max to air the room out. I laughed so hard that night. They knew it was you and took it to the max to fuck with you.  TLDR: Fart causes $5000 in tax payer money. Wooo! New world record! When you get those rotten egg farts, they usually also come out in burps which are even nastier, good memories. Jeez talk about clearing a room. I thought this was gonna be about a bad porno. You evacuated a house with your darts congrats. Edit*  farts If you ever marry her, you need to tell them all what you did.  It will be hilarious.  I bet their propane tanks have never leaked, and your girlfriend's dad has eggy farts too. He's on to your game, OP. Seriously hope this doesn't get traced back to you...  Our OP, who farts near Girlfriend, sacred be thine ass. damn it boy why didnt you just tell us, its better than calling the fire department! This sounds like one of those unbelievable scenes from a sitcom where you think "psh, like that could ever happen". I came here expecting an open flame to be nearby which ignited some curtains. But this was acceptable. This happened to me once. I was at a football game and my stomach hurt really bad. I decided to let a little one go. After a minute.... I could see the crowd become visible sick. Someone said there were chicken houses near by so I went with it and let a few more go. I guess my ass smells like "chicken shit"! I sometimes get freaked out about weird smells too but mainly because I deal with H2S on a semi regular basis and that's nothing to joke about. Apparently you can get terminated and blacklisted from employment in the industry if it's found that you were purposely farting on your H2S monitors they're there for safety and $600 pieces of equipment, nothing to joke around about. Plot twist: the last time the dad farted and didn't want to admit it, so he set up an elaborate farce to make his family think the propane tanks were leaking. thats how us farters roll bro That's a great story for your best man to tell at your wedding--if you can keep from shitting up the air long enough to keep that relationship, that is.
 Pretty irresponsible of you not to speak up. What if those firefighters were needed for an actual emergency?

Shame on you. A buddy of mine stayed at his new girlfriends cabin with the family. They had a wood stove with a CO2 detector. He ripped some good awful air biscuit and set the smoke alarm off.
 Man.  I have had this exact thing happen to me after a night of heavy drinking except I owned up to it, got dirty looks from mom, and basically never saw that woman again lol.  I always thought maybe if I had pretended it wasn't me that things might have went differently.  Now I clearly see that I probably made the right decision.  Thanks for taking the alternate path on that for me haha. Wow, you have me beat.  I once threw away an egg that I thought was rotten due to the smell.  Turns out it was just my fart. The quieter the fart, the deadlier it is. Calling the fire department was the right call.  We called those "air biscuits." The best clickbait there ever was Read this out loud to my family and they all roared.  Great story!   So you had to hold your shit until after the fire dept. left? Man, that's brutal. I hope you checked for air freshener before unloading on their toilet. Better yet, you probably should have shit in the bushes. Dude, eat some fiber. Clean out those dead animals in your colon. should have *shat Are you the potato guy once again? That was honestly the funniest TIFU I've ever read. My dog used to fart so bad it'd set off the carbon monoxide detectors in the house - we had to take them out the whole time she was alive, thank goodness we never had an actual gas leak... Reminds me of last night:

My husband and I were laying in bed with the cats, a ease out a nice silent fart and am pleased I managed to not make a sound.  A few seconds later my husband starts freaking out and examining our sheets. I ask what's up.  He says "oh god!  One of the cats must shit in the bed, you don't smell that?!" 

I try to play it off for a few seconds, pretend not to smell it, pretend to blame it on the cat farting, finally admit it was me and laugh nervously and apologize profusely. 

It was really bad though :( I am sure they will come across this reddit thread sometime and will put it all together.  Time to find a new girl....
 This happened at my last job, the girl I sat next to had a rotten egg fart and someone called maintenance. We were crying from laughing so hard and nobody else knew. 

Another coworker broke a POS machine at Walmart with one. Thing wouldn't take my credit card and I was in tears again. 

TL;DR - My ex coworkers had some potent methane cuddles [That smell was from the fart that I made](http://youtu.be/pdxTcpbOki0) At this point I think you have to feign ignorance. You didn't fess up when you had the chance so you'll be taking that gas to your grave.  *Girlfriend's mom turns out to be reddit user* 

Image from http://assets.diylol.com/hfs/652/c25/cd7/resized/reginas-mom-meme-generator-i-m-not-like-a-regular-mom-i-m-a-cool-mom-bb7047.jpg?1314685531.jpg. I have an image in my head of a fully dressed fireman coming out of the house "don't worry ma'am, just a fart." Please make every attempt to call your GF's father a real smart feller or something. Her "playfully slapping" was actually her soothing the skin. If she wouldn't have done it, you would have been bleeding and in pain for much longer.  So if I cut myself during shaving I should bitch slap myself?  Also, if you lose a limb, just slap the stump. Stops bleeding every time.

Source: am Slap Medic.

edit: My gold virginity has been taken! Thank you kindly, stranger. Now if you'll excuse me, I gotta slap my gold hymen ... or what's left of it. "Never had a patient come back and complain" Merely a fleshwound Slap medic. There's a comedy sketch in here somewhere...  Visions of a doctor gently slapping elderly patients as they recover after surgery. Of course. 

Only bitches shave.  Do you have to slap everything you wax? Every time I ~~was~~ wax my eyebrows, they bleed like a mother fucker. I used to be my eyebrows too I still be my eyebrows, but I was too! There's not a part of this sentence I understand. I be sentenced to whacks misunderstanding, my eye parts arched, two brows still. I thought I was the only eyebrow-kin! The lady I see lightly presses her finger over the spot just waxed each pull. Not only does it help the bleeding but it also distracts you from the initial sharp pain. 

Edit: a word You should have gotten someone to smack them for you apparently.
 It doesn't really help though. The slapping hurts. You can just put pressure on the area by placing your hand on it and it feels much better. The slapping also distracts the pain by enacting it's own pain.  Instead of the sharp pain of the hairs being pulled out you feel another less painful hurt, a dull smack from the hand.  It helps a little, but it's still painful altogether. As an Esthetician, I've never heard of someone using a slap afterword!!!! We were taught in school to apply a quick press to soothe the after-sting....not a slap. Hahaha! 
Also, bleeding is actually a good thing. It's a sign that the follicle has been perfectly 'annihilated' and won't grow back in that particular pore. So you *want* to bleed!  Christ... that sounds a bit nuts when I type it out.  That...was not where I expected this to go. personally I was expecting skin and blood loss. I was expecting something along the lines of [The Guy who Shaved his Ass-Hair](http://www.craigslist.org/about/best/lax/35274458.html) same here, instead he got off on the wax lady and she laughed about it while milking him.

how the fuck is this fuck up? Well, I mean, excruciating pain and embarrassment, but still, handjob.
 So 20 dollars on top of what?  Male brazillians usually start at around $70 He didn't expect it either.  mr happy still confused tho mr happy thought it was fun time.. Mr.Happy was mislead Mr. Happy is now sad.. Sounds like Mr. Happy knows what's up but his owner is confused. mr happy liked mrs slappy. Can I get her card OP? I thought she meant to come back once your penis was an eighth of an inch bigger... Well if waxing affected penis growth I'm sure many men would be doing it more often. Well it definitely made yours bigger, stud. Still is... Every. Single. Night.  The shorter the grass, the taller the tree. The Optical Inch. So what you're telling me is if I want to pay for a handy I go and get my genitals waxed?  Dude... Not worth it. You can pay and get a handy without torturing your genitals of course. Then how is he supposed to get off? The salon is a front for a bdsm webcam club. Your girl set you up for a pay per view and is now rolling in cash and lulz.

Seriously, that bit about the bottom inch made my eyes water, yeesh. Right? I couldnt stop laughing. The hair only goes up an inch? How can you even gel that into a Mohawk? Doesn't everyone have hair there?

Just me and the OP?

Oh. By the sounds of it, she was far from scarred. In fact, I'd say from her reaction, your waxer quite liked your reaction. Hell, she cupped her hand to catch your man milk and didn't run for the hills. I'd say you could possibly get yourself a happy ending with every waxing.  this is what I'm guessing as well. Just a little giggle and she has no problem getting jizzed on by and "milking " OP, followed with a few "jerks" at the end. She played with it a little. Kisses however, that's another story. That's why she gave him her card, wants to meet up for some kisses. Damnit Jenny http://i.imgur.com/YqIJUvR.gif Yup... Jenny's a workin girl now! Oh, come on, everyone understood that... Yeah sounds like she liked it. Laughing while you cum and catching it in her hand? She totally wanted it man. She wanted the P^^^^^araffin The waxed P Yeah, it's probably a sexual kink of hers. Like, she wasn't expecting it but probably tested the limits. I thought I'd read in masseuse AMAs that they usually have the client move their penis, but they've also made it clear that erection during massages and similar things are common. 

As for the orgasm I think a recent comment from an r/sex post could apply. It originally pertained to the OPs girlfriend orgasm during a rape. In this case our OP had pain adrenaline and the physical act triggered an orgasm because the body doesn't know the difference between having sex adrenaline and torture /rape adrenaline, and not knowing what to do assumes you're having sex and throws the levers and hits the switches for orgasm. There was an article linked with it. It was fascinating. Actually nice to know HOW people can get an orgasm during rape.

Knew it was possible but didn't know it was linked to that. I think it must have something to do with the mandatory sexual intercourse. http://i.imgur.com/RspJyHy.gif http://i.imgur.com/ShDVUY0.gifv [you made me laugh like a mother fucker. but i dont have enough money to give you gold](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=E8RPorI6bis) Exactly, if current girlfriend doesnt work out. OP has a backup. This.
OP is living the good life. well if he has to pay her OP is visiting a prostitute who won't go further than hands, so not that good. And she also "milked" it. I would like confirmation of the extent of milking from OP however. Too good to be true.  Sounds fake as fuck to me and made up.  Just my opinion.   This part doesn't really sound believable.  &gt;Mr. Happy is jumping around spitting cum all over the place. 

God that must've been awkward. [deleted] Allergies suck Are you the seahawks? Wax on
jerk off... Wax on whacks off Relevant username... I've been waiting for my moment? I'm Ron Burgundy? I wish someone would slap my nuts Username *almost* checks out Oh lord.... Oh lord. I can feel it coming in the air tonight... This actually kinda turned me on  [Yes...yes it did](http://i.imgur.com/xH6blA2.gif) I didn't know what to expect and am thoroughly pleased 9/10 would recommend Yeah, my weenie betrayed me on this one, too. I was popping, and it decided to go in the water. Shudder. Protip: 

*lower the freaking water* I'm sooo confused now, does this count as cheating or not?

&gt; I'm never going back again ever, obviously.

So...this is not your fetish? ;) I have a feeling it might be later Yeah, he'll definitely be back.  In fact he's rubbing rogaine on his man pad every night to go back sooner.  Wow. Most of the long TIFUs are pretty bad. 

This is golden. Well, if nothing else, it's definitely shiny right now! I think it's more of a milky white... I find most TIFUs to read like a horny 12 year old wrote them. This one definitely did not read like that. Right so I can cross that off my list of things to try one time. I well never wax, an ex has thrown a wax strip on my arm and torn it off and that hurt like hell, so no thanks to doing this.

Alsi I checked shaving down there off when I was a teenager. My God the razor rash combined with the stubble aggravating the sensitive skin sucked.

 It was like I threw a dozen scouring pads down my pants. I'll trim no problem, but never ever ever again shall I put a razor near there again. It shouldn't be bad if you use the gel shaving cream and a relatively new blade. Be smooth but firm, but not too hard. Lastly, moisturize!!! Also, the best time to do it is after taking a warm shower. Just use a trimmer.  Lot of girls don't like it totally bald it looks great bald, a lot of them are lying Am girl. Can confirm. Honestly my SO is a hairy dude and it looks ridiculous to have a bald patch amidst all the leg/ab hair. I much prefer trim! Wait why would they lie if you asked them their preference?  because the person that asked is hairy? to seem less high maintenance as well Just don't go against the grain. [deleted] Basically you never want to shave from your shaft up to your belly button. Always shave down. From the belly button down. That way you shave the way the hair grows, "not going against the grain". Get almost all of it done, then liberally apply shaving cream and you can shave against the grain when it's just stubble to clean it up. It will help avoid razor burn, ingrown hairs, the little red marks etc. 


Source: I've been shaving my dick since before I knew how to use it.  [deleted] Link for those who want step by step dick shaving instructions. http://m.wikihow.com/Shave-Your-Genitals-%28Male%29 

SAFE FOR WORK, no pics involved  It's basically the same rule of thumb as shaving anywhere else. Always shave the way the hair grows, otherwise ingrown hairs, cuts, razor burn, etc have a better chance of happening. 

Just go slow and learn how to move your junk around so you are able to get it all. Dick skin is pretty tough, you aren't gonna chop it off so don't be scared to pick it up to shave under the shaft. Nothing worse than having patches of unshaved wiener hair.  Gonna chime in for a second. 

Waxing your first time is the most painful because of how deeply rooted that shit is. So if you do decide to do it again, trust her, go back and get it done and stay on a schedule. Your hair grows in cycles so when you go back 1) the roots won't be as deep an 2) it'll be less hair. If you stay on this schedule it won't be as time consuming or as painful. Getting brazillians or brozillians is definitely painful, but it does get slightly better. 


She's a  licensed professional, and it is her job to do the service you have requested ( which involves a lot of up close and personal time) the absolute best she can while making you as comfortable as possible. She may have never had anyone cum from it before, but trust me. She's seen some shit both literally and figuratively if she's done this any length of time at all. So, it's ok. 


 The " light slapping" is actually applying pressure to the area with recently removed  hair. The pressure helps with the pain of yanking that shit out.  The oil applied afterwards is to both clean up any left over wax plus helps soothe the area. You have to apply pressure during this in some spots if there is wax, so honestly it probably was the best part of think experience for the twig n berries. 


She HAS to move your penis out of the way for multiple reasons. 1) you don't want your dick stuck in wax to your leg or fupa. Ow. 2) you HAVE to pull the skin taught before removing the wax every single time. Especially in this area because of the delicate skin and folds and wrinkles. If you don't pull everything as flat and tight as possible you run the risk of tearing or lifting, and this, my friends, kills the penis. Not really, just a nice visit to the ER.


Lastly, it is very VERY common for men to have wood during this service. Not because it feels wonderful, obviously, but because the moving around, nerves, blood pumping, nice warm wax. Sometimes this actually helps the process because of the whole pulling your skin tight bit of the waxing experience.  


So, you're not going to go to jail because of a natural and normal bodily reaction. You would go to jail if you were verbally harassing her and stroking your member while she was doing this service. Bit of a difference.  Having that area completely bare is probably one of the most amazing feelings during sex, but even more so during oral. Definitely do 69 now if that is in your comfort zone. 


I've had them done and done them for years. I modeled for Brazilians for my aesthetics school, so I've seen and had some serious shit done to me. If she was still giving you her card and telling you what you need to do to reschedule, just trust her. You've already had the most embarrassing and worst experience out of the way. It'll only be better after this, and now you'll know what to expect, so maybe no accidental spurts.


Source - I am an aesthetician. Have seen some shit.  Have you ever had the same thing that OP discussed happen?  I mean, I want to get a Brazilian for my wife but I'm really not into cumming all over the place. How much was it? With tip it came to $85.00. Oh fuck she waxed the tip too?! She got a lot more than just the tip. (   ) She got the whole load. Don't worry about it, man, it's normal. You don't always have to be mentally turned on by a situation, just physical stimulation is enough to turn you on, which is why a guy can be raped by a woman; he'll get an erection even if he doesn't want to have sex whatsoever. Just biology making sure we can produce offspring as much as possible.

Well, at least you now know the pain your girlfriend goes through to keep herself smooth, and you can appreciate it even more. But yeah, no, do not envy you, I wouldn't even joke about getting waxed, there's just no way. Yeah, it can happen to girls too. Sometimes my gyno puts the speculum in just the right spot... I'm definitely not wanting to bone her at the moment she's scraping my cervix, but my vagina thinks it's a good time to go.  My old gyno actually commented on how wet I got during an exam, uh hello professional bedside manner. The body does what it wants. In my experience gynos have no professionalism and they're way too comfortable with all of it It's a tad less obvious for women, though. Unfortunately in my scenario, the vagina pulsates during an orgasm and a gyno would recognize what's happening since s/he is in there with fingers and scrapy tools. 


 I just cringed at scrapy tools. Ungh scrape me baby fuck yeah And you definitely won't get arrested for cumming during a wax. It's not like you can just will yourself to orgasm. Even so, she is holding your dick, I feel like they know it's a possibility.  You "paid" $20 for a handjob &gt; I have a girlfriend and we've been dating for a month exactly.

I must be doing it wrong TL;DR: Promised to wax for GF, stimulated by pain and cums over 20 something woman waxing OP. Tips $20.00 to stay out of jail.  &gt; TL;DR: Promised to wax for GF, stimulated by pain and cums over 20 something woman waxing OP. Tips $20.00 to stay out of jail. 

I'm going to put this as the tl;dr! Credit &lt;3 Sadly, OP did not give credit.  OP gave us the post. His work here is done.

Best TIFU post I've see to date! Do you miss your ass hair? I was told by a bro that you miss your ass hair. It did feel weird when I was wiping my ass to not have hair there. I don't miss it but hearing the comments in this thread, I dread it growing back. I'll be that fucked up dude picking at his ass all the time. Dude, your dick *liked* it.

You can't not go back! tl;dr: Mr. Happy likes getting waxed but I don't. Verification pics or it didn't happen! Timestamp with your username, the date, and your waxed genitals. OP pls. I am sure some of us are thinking:  "Now I am torn - I would love an orgasm from a nice looking female stranger who clearly enjoys it....but I don't want the pain....

What to do?  What to do?" [deleted] Just go for a massage parlor?  &gt; torn Girls always tell me to come back after it grows too. I'm just gonna leave this here.

[Rubmap](http://www.rubmaps.com) Well TIL the message parlor in my small town gives handjobs That's disgusting, your local post office gives handjobs? I feel you... Gf wanted me to get my backside and frontside waxed... I'll tell you this; Nair is pure acid. Laser hair removal. When I was waxing it was $80 for a full Brazilian, took 30+ minutes and hurt like hell. I now pay $39 to get underarms and Brazilian laser hair removal, literally takes 2-5 minutes, and for the most part it's just a warm sensation. In sensitive spots it feels like a pinprick. I've only had two sessions and I'm 98% hairless. 

A lot of people get thrown off by the permanence of laser hair removal, but if you're just gonna keep waxing or shaving, getting horrid ingrown hairs, razor burn, and wasting time, just laser it.  $39???? Where do you live?! I just looked up prices and around me its $350 for Brazilian alone  Since /u/AshieeRose hasn't responded, I took a peek through their submissions and found that they live in Australia.  Good work detective. Now go on, my mother's waiting. I'm in Australia, the laser clinic I go to had a big sale, and they allow you to pay in advance. So when they went down to $39 for their Brazilian+Underarm combo, I pounced on it and paid for all of my sessions. 

 Can I ask if you are a guy or a girl? And with laser does it still get the hair in all the...crevices?  Female, and yes, they can go in all the folds if you ask them to.  so you have spent roughly $80 ($39x2) and are done?


Or at least done-ish? It normally takes 6-8 sessions depending on your skin and hair type to be fully removed for however many years, but it starts disappearing even after the first session.  I've had laser hair removal done on my face and that shit hurts! I can't even imagine having it done on my lady bits. The nurse who does mine said it would feel like repeatedly being hit with a rubber band but that is all lies. It's like being zapped in the face with little lightning bolts over and over.  I'm still confused as to why you were 100% sure that intimate waxing for men didn't exist.  I was more hoping it didn't exist. Man, my front page fucking delivered this morning.  "She gives me her card and tells me to come back when it's grown about an 1/8th of an inch..."

Heh I'm dying laughing, I'm so sorry OP, but damn! hmmm, now you see, i was thinking of doing this one day, but maybe ill just be happy with my forest of pubes. ouch OP, diffidently up voting this Diffidently upvoting you too I hear sugaring works as well as waxing but is much less painful. "My nuts for some reason decide to hang down to knees which they don't tend to do very often "

Do your balls hang low? Do they wobble to the flo' Do they shine in the light. Are they platinum, are they gold? I got waxed once as well...the waxing at the base of the cock (i.e. below the stomach) hurts like crazy just like OP said but the balls didn't hurt, nor did the ass crack...and I definitely didn't get waxed doggy style either.  
Then again, I didn't start cumming from the pain and have the masseuse gleefully catch it either. I think OP's gf brought him to a themed brothel to test him and she'll let him know he failed soon enough.  I kind of feel like I went to a bad salon since everyone says they don't typically make you get up on all fours. The balls fucking hurt getting waxed, mostly the combination of pulling, tugging, ripping and slapping, all together did not make an awesome experience. I see you say you only got waxed once as well, it must have been as fun for you as me.

Also getting the ass waxed didn't hurt bad. I thought it was because i was desensitized from the pain. I figured I was suffering from Stockholm syndrome and sympthasing with my ~~torturer~~ waxer. a bit different than my experiences. I find the front pubes to be the most painful part, scrotum isn't as bad, as as you agree the ass crack really is nothing compared to the other two.

I suppose everyone is different, but I'm surprised you got an erection. It's such a non-sexual atmosphere where I go, the girls that work there are very professional. 

being on all fours I think would make it difficult for proper access, unless you're right at the end of the table? I always lay on my side, pull my knees to me chest with one hand, spread my cheeks with my other, and do my best to relax

It's not really a whole lot different from going to the dentist, or any more embarassing than getting an annual physical when they check your prostate.

well worth the discomfort though, I think I'll be getting waxed for the rest of my life, unless I eventually decide to get laser hair removal What dentist do you go to? I can get erections staring at a wall, if someone is fondling my penis, in any context, blood flow is gonna happen. I've heard that's the only way they can do the back sack and crack because it makes the skin perfectly tight This is fucking perfect.

My god, this may be my favorite TIFU. [deleted] Haha! She's saying "Why didn't you say anything?"


Then jerks him off a little for god measure. Wonderful! "Oh shit he's cumming, better jerk him off now" That is now in my browsing history that's almost how he described it The old hand.. skeletal hand, ahh, I do not like.  when you say "Next thing I know Mr. Happy is jumping around spitting cum all over the place." do you mean full on orgasmic cum, or just a little pre-cum? cause the pre-cum is almost a given, but if you started blowing your load that's even funnier It was an orgasm, I mean it felt good as I was cumming but I was in shock so I didn't really enjoy it as much as I would have if I had expected it. It just happened, I was not ready for it at all.   So you got some from another girl and cannot get in trouble for it.

10/10 "She gives me her card and tells me to come back when it's grown about an 1/8th of an inch for another wax."

/r/smalldickproblems What I'm getting from this....I need to get my balls and dick waxed &gt; I'm never going back again ever, obviously.

If you ever break up with your current GF, at least you know where to go... ;) The way you wrote cracked me up, I was laughing throughout the whole story. Maybe it's because I'm high as a kite. But still. Great writing! Admit it, you'll go back.  We want an update in a few weeks, after you go back for another wax.  :) OP should check out a BDSM club to see what else he likes getting slapped... Wait for the hair to grow back... the itching.... oh my god.... unless waxing is different to shaving in that regard. I've never tried it, but I would imaging waxing is better as far as itching goes. New hair should have a fine, thin point as opposed to shaved hair which just continue to grow at the same thickness as the cut point. Wax on, whacks off *sigh*.....unzips.... This counts as a relapse.
-Fapstronaut My reaction. http://imgur.com/iHc01Xr OP, I honestly can't believe this really happened, I mean it is borderline the setting of a good ol' porn scene...

But if it's real...that girl was too cool, please be adventurous and go back in there, there could be even more 'happy ending' to this tifu :D This has made my day. TL;DR could read: Went in for a wax, found out that part of me enjoys CBT. Won't tell my gf about it because I have a complex about it. And your last post you were so poor you needed food stamps.  Suddenly $85 appears.  I got a job that pays pretty well now. It's been like night and day. Things are going pretty well for me right now. I'm making a $800 a week after taxes. I am so envious. I make $800 a month after taxes. what do you do?
 I am an electrician, I have done it for a while and I finally got a union job that pays very well. I feel you though was doing non-union work for a slave labor company that did remodels for Wal-mart and made jack shit doing it. I did not see that cumming BRB, going for to get waxed. I want to believe [Don't mind me](http://imgur.com/E349igc)
 She thinks you tipped her $20 for getting you off. And this is how exotic massage parlors came to exist!  &gt; she told me I didn't do anything wrong, It's a natural reaction, all while milking my cock.

I swore I must have been on /r/4chan. I also need to get a wax.  Do any of you actually believe this happened? Come on you can't all be that stupid  [this appears to be in a salon of sorts (asian) watch if you dare, it goes just like OP said](http://xhamster.com/movies/3460787/albert_estheticienne_brazilian_cum_wax_2.html) those hands... Seems liked fairly aged hands and arms. Old asian lady at a salon/rub-n-tug...Checks out. I wonder if finishing him off was just an immediate reaction or if the "hidden Cam" was a lie and she was in on it. She just jumps in there and goes to tugtown when she realizes what's happening..  No one should have to use xHamster. 

Edit: nice downvotes... for those who don't get the reference: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bKgf5PaBzyg#t=96 why is that?  some of the best material is there. Check edit.  dude nsfw Honestly it is not entirely impossible that an endorphin rush caused as a reaction to the pain mixed with stimulation of thst region could cause that reaction.

Her reaction to it is improbable but not impossible either. With the right sense of humor... Seriously. He lasted like 2 minutes which isn't realistic at all... I'm lucky if I get half that  Fuck that this was at least 9 minutes in. It's not like she just ripped the hair out one strip after another, that would have been kind. She would wait a bit between to lengthen the agony.

I know it was 9 minutes because I listened to like four Taylor Swift songs while having this done to me. There is no pain or awkwardness that cannot be overcome by the joy of listening to Taylor Swift.  Except marijuana overdose.  4 taylor swift songs? are you sure you have balls? Hey now  You're an rockstar grab your hard-on
 And go... play?..

^^^eww. She was lookin' kinda dumb with my cum on her thumb. And drew a shape of an L on her forehead &gt;And go spray

FTFY Get your game on Typically the customers don't pick the music that comes on the radio

Speaking of which, OP, did you? Come on the radio, I mean I don't always come on the radio, but when I do I'm getting waxed.  Not after she was done with him he didn't  Hey, Taylor Swift songs are longer than that!  They just feel longer than that.  Did "Shake it off" come on?... This explains a lot. This sounds like a special kind of hell OP.  Waxing lady *might* have been the devil. Causing agonising pain to a naked man while putting him in an impossibly tight spot with his girlfriend (who's present in the other room) *and* taking your money for it. Add to that, four Taylor Swift songs in a row....  
Checks out, wax girl is Satan. &gt; I voluntarily listened to four Taylor Swift songs without demanding the music be changed  

Can you give me your address?  

I want to cut out one of my testicles and mail it to you, because I feel like every man should have at least one.  Taylor Swift songs?  THAT explains the story. [Hmmm...](http://i.imgur.com/BKrLXnr.gif) Man that was a great episode.  [Posted](http://www.reddit.com/r/TopGear/comments/2ugtys/i_have_doubts/) on /r/topgear, and happened to be right below this one on my frontpage! I don't. Like this random salon girl would be ok with a stranger cumming all over her? Nope.

I have a hair stylist who also does waxing and she told me that she used to have dudes who would try and pull "weird" stuff around her. She used to say that she would tell them to leave immediately and that she was going to call the cops. If you want to get your hog wanked, take it somewhere else.

These ladies are v just trying to make an honest living. He was there with his girlfriend. I don't think he was looking to bust on a stranger.  Who isn't looking to bust on a stranger?? You think the girlfriend exists... How cute... Guys can't exactly control their erections or orgasm responses if that shit just happens... It's not like he asked her to jerk him off.  He didn't NOT ask her to jerk him. Lets just say that no man who is married would tell their wives that a woman jacked them off to completion due to "waxing" and there nit be either in serious shit or divorced. 


Why? Because that's straight cheatin foo. ...but she didn't jerk him off. She waxed him, and all the stuff he mentioned is pretty par for the course for waxing. She can't just avoid his penis, unless she wants him to leave with a hack-job of a Brazilian wax.  She handled his ejaculate and oiled him up for a post jerk. If that had actually happened, I mean.  So she, waxed him off?

thatsopsfetish.jpg I was understanding of OP up until the after massage. You can't always control your dick and waxing it could certainly send it mixed messages. Pain/fear adrenaline isn't different from sex/pleasure adrenaline, so the orgasm is understandable.

But letting her massage him with baby oil and jerk his erect dick for a few minutes? That crosses a line, in my opinion.  Crossed the line into being a worth-while read. So, rubbing the after-care oil into the skin is supposed to happen how...?  The guy didn't say he asked the woman to jerk him off. It was involuntary. I like how all the horny dudes are defending OP's honor.  IDK, I definitely know women quirky enough to find this entertaining. ITT: people projecting their own boundaries on others what boundaries? 

do me a favor, let's do a little scientific experiment. Let's start calling local salons up and ask them some questions.

do they wax men? do they wax men balls and penis? what would they do if a man "accidentally" became erect and ejaculate? 

and then let's tally the survey and see what we find out. deal? 3/3 of my esthetician friends informally polled in the past hour say it's no big deal.

Additionally, one of them adds: "If you're easily squicked by people's genitals and body functions then this is the wrong industry for you."

Science! &gt; what would they do if a man "accidentally" became erect and ejaculate? 

How much control do you think men have over their erections and orgasms while being physically stimulated?

If you wax and grab penises for a living and get shocked at "accidental" erections you should reconsider a few things and get some sex Ed. 

It's reasonable to assume that the overwhelming majority of males (if not even all) will get an erection when someone puts hot wax around their genitals and grab their penis and for some this might be enough to cum ([premature ejaculations](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Premature_ejaculation)). 
 You don't need to call anywhere... almost all of these places have websites with pricelists.  When you see "male Brazilian" you should have all your answers.

But yeah, the reality is these places do exist, they do hair removal for men, and those men do have genitals.  I know it's shocking to hear all this at once.

Erections are very common.  Ejaculation is far less common, but not impossible.

FYI, I get my dick, balls and asshole lasered on a regular basis.  The girl is hot too.  Sometimes my dick gets hard.  It's really not that big of a deal... I've actually given laser depilation some thought. Recommend it? I'm sold on it.  $200 a year means I shave once every 6 weeks and no longer have to deal with the itchiness, pain or irritation that I used to after shaving, and I like the way it looks.  And did I mention the girl is hot? TIL....but I still don't get ejaculating, and the worker being ok with it. The OP described it is that some got on her face and she laughed and licked it off.

I'm just stating that it came off sounding too much like a porn.   &gt; and licked it off

I'm not seeing that part in the OP at all. I suspect your imagination might have filled in some blanks Yeah, my imagination is starting to get loose. [But this goes out to OP(http://youtu.be/ZR_X6PrASho?t=46s) This video makes me lol for reasons I have trouble expressing Yeah the laughing was a bit much... 


As far as the possibility of ejaculating, I think it's way less likely for anyone getting lasered since there isn't firm rubbing of your cock, but this guy got waxed which I understand requires much firmer handling and such.  If he was excited and became fixated, I could see it happening.


The worker's reaction depends wholly on the individual esthetician.  One of the girls at the place I go to won't treat men at all, whereas the girl who does my maintenance every 6-8 weeks didn't once react to my penis in terms of its apparent arousal any of the times that if happened (the first few visits).  I could see a more exhibitionist (and unprofessional) girl reacting, at least a wink or a smile.

Starting to wonder if I should have used a throwaway for this. Too late! Meh.  If anyone I know feels the need to creep me to *that* degree, they deserve to get a little scarred. ;) https://31.media.tumblr.com/9980678667481ca5a5640f793d42d19d/tumblr_inline_ne6gb3UUKC1qjbiu4.gif Maybe OP is ridiculously good looking. maybe OP sleeps in a bed of lies? &gt; Like this random salon girl would be ok with a stranger cumming all over her? Nope.

It's possible, people have vastly different boundaries. 

It's even possible that she thought that OP was hot or that she enjoyed it. Humans, including women, can be creepy, horny or perverted at times.

&gt;she told me that she used to have dudes who would try and pull "weird" stuff around her. She used to say that she would tell them to leave immediately and that she was going to call the cops. If you want to get your hog wanked, take it somewhere else.

Except that OP apparently hasn't tried to pull "weird" stuff so she likely realized that this was out of his control.

If he had started to stroke his penis in front of her or thrust it in her hand she probably had thrown him out for pulling "weird" stuff, but he didn't.

 Damn it! Im slowly losing this battle. But I'll never surrender!  Always have to have a few brave TIFU heros to protect us from believing harmless stories on the Internet.  This sub is full of the most gullible people. Everyone just deluding themselves and wanting the fakest shit to be true. dude we come for the stories, we stay for the karma. fucking joykill exactly. Who cares whether or not it's true. It was a good story that made my day better by knowing someone else's was worse.

Plus, if you subscribe to the multiverse this happened with a cockroach cumming sprite over a loaf of bread with tattoos.  This would be so awkward, if it actually happened. Least believable tifu to reach the front page in a long time.  It's actually a genius plan by OP to try to trick lonely redditors into waxing their genitals in the hopes of getting a handy. Fuck no.  I agree. 

Estheticians DO NOT have you get up on all fours when they wax you either. 

You pull your knees to your chest.  Also, I've never heard of a beauty therapist move a man's dick around when doing a wax. You move your own dick, like a woman will hold their skin taut to help the therapist.
 I'm 6'4" tall and 225lbs, I'm not fat by any means but shit that would be fucking awkward, to pull my knees up and hold it while she waxes me. I have hair in my crack from my tailbone down. Picture working your way up into my crack and spreading it to get the wax all the way down in there. Yeah... I'm picturing it... ( '' ) I've heard of both, actually. I don't think on all-fours is uncommon at all.  absolute horseshit, it depends entirely on the situation.  Also sounds like it was written by a teenager. Wonders why his lady's "pussy" is so smooth.. Clueless that waxing exists to accomplish this?

What a turd. He never wondered. He commented on how smooth it was. Learn to read.  Sorry about that.

I'm the turd.
 He sounds overly Horny. He probably just shared his favorite fapping fantasy with us.  I would be so mortified and embarrassed that some girl my age I've never met before was grabbing my penis and rubbing it but we weren't about to hook up or have sex. I don't think I would be able to get aroused let alone bust a nut. That's premature ejaculation at its finest  This would never happen to you, I believe that.

But life holds opportunities for attractive men that you will never experience. Then again, what day isn't ruined as soon as you put on pants? Trick question, everyday is great when it is socially acceptable to wear skirts!  Damn, I'm a dude.

And before any of you smartasses say anything, I'm not Scottish. And those are kilts anyways. You're missing out man! Kilts are one of my favourite things about being Scottish, they look cool as fuck and are far warmer than you would expect. Plus you get to hide stuff in the sporran. 

We are so manly we can dress up in skirts and carry around a purse and still look hard.  It's only a skirt if you're wearing underwear. Heathen.
 Underwear is for the weak and the English. 

^^I ^^love ^^you ^^really, ^^please ^^don't ^^steal ^^any ^^more ^^of ^^our ^^freedom Absolutely right. 


source: I'm Irish. No, but seriously. Why couldn't you guys just have gotten along, historically? As an Englishman, it's because we're dickheads.  American here. Can confirm that is what the history books say. Also most of your colonies. [Map of places the English have made their bitch at one time or another.](http://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/f/f6/British_Empire.png) Brothers and sister always fight, like scots and Englishman, or scots and Welshmen. Or the scots and the Japanese, or scots and other scots! Damn those scots they're ruining Scotland - groundskeeper willie Because the Americans are not drinking enough tea Because we threw it all into Boston harbor. Don't worry Jock we're just glad you made the distinction between being weak and English :). &gt; the weak and the English. 

Whoops, tautology.

 Hang on, didn't they offer to give it back and you said no? TIL that a part of a kilt is called a sporran. It sounds super rude lol :)
Or like some race from a fantasy world... Or a race that takes place in a fantasy world. Lol. I would like to see that race. I feel like it would be awesome and involve space ships... Sporrans are brilliant. Except at weddings when you fill your sporran with things that your new wife has given you, your phone, a hip flask, and then dance and jump up and down. 

Stuff gets pummelled.
 Lets wear kilts and make some punk shit. Username checks out with ethnicity I can look hard through *anything* Come to Portland.  I saw a few dudes wearing skirts (kilts too, but I mean actual skirts) last summer. [deleted] Idk if you saw or not but we are not sposed too invite people too Portland anymore. Facebook said so. Oh yeah. I forgot.

Don't come to Portland. You will hate it here. We all do. Correct. Horrible weather. Hipsters and bums as far as the eye can see.  Lady bums or homeless bums? Gotta be specific here, man.  homeless ladies. How are their bums? As long as they've got nice bums I suppose I can get down and dirty with them. Yeah this place is terrible with with the unicycle riding, flaming bagpipe blowing, kilt wearing Darth Vader that rides around Don't come to Seattle either. We have a holiday for not coming to Seattle. It's called the Super Bowl  True Story, in Portland in summer you will see big hairy men with 1890's beards in pretty, flowered sundresses--feeling cool. Looking cool. The dream of the 90's is alive in Portland! Indonesia! Sarong!  I could get really obese and wear a moo moo like Homer does in that one episode, as well! Hell yeah. Loving these ideas. Please do this. And take pictures. We'll pay you. 

^In ^imaginary ^internet ^points. You don't have to be Scottish to wear a kilt.  You just can't wear a particular family's tartan (the plaid designs).  Stay away from plaid, get utility kilts, and be far more comfortable than those chumps wearing pants.  Anyone gives you shit, just reply with "Sorry that me being comfortable threatens your masculinity, but that's your problem, not mine."  (Source: It's what I do every day.) Hey man, what's stopping you?

(Just kidding. I know that most folks would expect you as a dude to not wear a skirt because masculinity. Just know that we believe in you.) I'm not saying I haven't, I was just responding to the person who used the phrase "socially acceptable"

Fuck a gender role It takes a real man to wear a skirt. Takes a real skirt to wear a man.  You could simply balk tradition and wear a skirt. One of my guy friends does. He's pretty alright and stuff.  http://gawker.com/swedish-train-drivers-wearing-skirts-to-work-512174435 https://www.saudiaramcoworld.com/issue/200403/images/sarongs.3.jpg I hate wearing pants. I get through the winter wearing skirts and thick thigh-high socks. I durno. I enjoy wearing pants. Wearing shorts to sleep or just in my underwear makes me uncomfortable and my legs get sweaty. Maybe its because I'm a girl  &gt; Maybe its because I'm a girl 


This has to be why.  Its every man's god-given right to sleep in boxers.  And it must be done. 



 I don't wear boxers throughout the day though,  no ball support! Boxer briefs...aw yeah
 Sleeping naked will change your life. ...as well as the color of your sheets Please, I've done that with clothes on. 
:(  [deleted] When you're playing off that "office meeting" with your co-worker.... True, if you're wearing pants that means it's too cold to wear shorts and cold days suck. I thought that was going WAY down hill there pretty soon. Good story. I thought her jeggings were just too tight and blood couldn't flow.  I know! I was like girl... those are stretchy. Buy a bigger pair.  This comment sounds like it's straight out of an ~~/r/CandidFashionAdvice~~ title. 


~~EDIT: that sub appears to be banned. Dang.~~


EDIT EDIT: thanks guy.  /r/CandidFashionPolice This is like your third comment that I find while randomly browsing Reddit. Stop following me You're following ME!  I'm herding you two towards each other! Its /r/CandidFashionPolice , not candidfashionadvice Probably the combo factor, although diabetics have compression socks to help with circulation.., so I have no idea. Never trust dark jeans that haven't been washed yet though. I had a dark blue quilt back in the day and was so confused when I would wake up with dark blue spots on my face. Just drooling on my blanket. I learned later that indigo has a strong tendency to bleed color(which is why blue jeans are blue jeans)and a lot of blue dyes still incorporate indigo as a colorant, the darker the wash, the more likely to bleed color.  I once learned that if you're trying to bleach indigo denim, the dye will all float to the top and re-adhere to the denim as you lift it out of the bleach solution, so without some serious coordination those jeans are staying blue. Dump out part of the water (most of the top) before taking out the jeans?

Or just dump it all out? Wash it before you use it and add a little bit of plain old white vinegar to it and it'll help keep it from bleeding and transferring in the future.  Not gonna lie, I read this story assuming OP was a guy

Edit: damn I really needa read usernames Agreed. You didn't get it right at the start when she said jeggings?  It was mostly the "don't judge me" that threw me off, but yeah I think even for girls there's a bit of judgement to be made Right? I was under the impression that her legs weren't getting any blood because the jeggings were too tight. Aww, I giggled. Thanks for that!

House, M.D does that to me too: I'll sneeze and think "It's Lupus!" Quick! Someone start scolding Foreman! Quick! Someone comment on how big Cuddy's ass is! But is it Kate good? Need to know because... Science Trying so hard to be good for r/nofap February  Never mention NoFap.  We all try to forget it exists. This is a thing?  Damn it, I already failed! "I'm out"

-Cosmo Kramer Damn, I just lost the game. You just ruined  a 5 year streak for me... I will never forgive you. If you're counting the time, then you'd already lost. Me too. Damn it so did i Heh... Hard. Cuddy has a big ass. Did I do it right? LP time! This vexes me. It's never lupus.  Except for that one time it was. [Season 4, Episode 8 to be exact.](http://house.wikia.com/wiki/You_Don%27t_Want_to_Know) But don't forget Foreman is a black criminal But boy is his grill handy. I feel like I'm out of the lupus here. He was wrong about Sarcoidosis though. I have Sarcoidosis ... lying bastard.  for me it was lupus :( And I have Sarcoidosis. We should start a hate group... :( It's never Lupus http://i.imgur.com/0Em7n7i.jpg /r/shittytumblrgifs  I really thought it was sarcoidosis.  Did you try the medicine drug? Raynaud's are actually a very common thing people with lupus have, so it could very well be lupus.  It's never Lupus. This is why I always wash jeans before wearing them. That, and the stained white leather couch incident...

Edit: wash before wearing, not washing. Wash jeans before washing them? I think you meant wearing, friend. I wash two pants before I wash two pants, and then I wash two more. You dont give your clothes a good wash before chucking them in the wash? No, it's a pre-wash, like that really dirty pot you just don't want to wash now. Wash twice wear once? I may have my adages confused... I think unwashed jeans are usually fine because they're cotton. Jeggings usually have some polyester in them. Though I'm curious about the stained white leather couch incident.  I don't think you're supposed to wear anything without washing them first. Besides dyes and chemicals, the people who handle them for shipping (to the store or your house) and people who display them on racks, not to mention people who browse and touch things... may not have washed all the ebola and other bacteria off their hands.

That and there could always be a spider hitching a ride in your clothes.  It's not bacteria from people's hands that makes me wash my new pants... Jeggings are quite form-fitting, and if you buy from a store there's no way of knowing whose disease-ridden unwashed crotch has been smeared all up in that. &gt;Besides dyes and chemicals,

This is a possible concern

&gt; the people who handle them for shipping (to the store or your house) and people who display them on racks, not to mention people who browse and touch things...may not have washed all the ebola and other bacteria off their hands.

You absolutely won't get any diseases from clothing.  Microbes aren't that resilient.  Not that interesting. Wore a new pair of jeans on a white leather couch and tinted it blue. I know a girl who got crabs from wearing jeans she didn't wash first. Is that what she told her boyfriend?  She was single so, no. Hahaha, so glad it was that and not something awful!



I did this with a pair of jeggings once, which bled blue dye until they'd been washed like a half dozen times. The first time, I freaked out &amp; took a hot shower to stretch out and see what was up. When Smurf-colored suds started showing up on my legs only, I was very happy.  I'm so glad to know I'm not the only one! Yes, this happened with a dark pair of blue jeans and I too thought something was really really wrong. Until I bathed. 

AND you just reminded me of when I got my tongue pierced (in 1997 ok?) and thought it was hemorrhaging. I looked in the mirror and my tongue had turned this horrible dark reddish brown. Then I remembered I drank a cherry Icee mixed with the cola flavor. The relief that it wasn't a hemorrhage was intense. If you do have hypothermia (or are treating someone who has it) warm slowly from the core outwards and **do not** immerse them in hot water.  [Opening up the capillaries suddenly and sending all that cold / deoxygenated blood back to the heart can cause shock](http://www.webmd.com/first-aid/hypothermia-treatment) how do you warm them from the core outwards? You mean like having them drink or eat something hot? Warming pads or water bottles applied to the torso / chest region.  Body heat (i.e. bearhugging them) only if you can stay warm enough yourself and/or are under reasonable shelter.  Putting the hypothermia victim under a blanket is okay, but ideally, you want blood flow to be slowly restored to the extremities only once the core warms up. Ohh, I was thinking about it the wrong way. You meant core as in the torso where all the major organs are. I was thinking core as in the inside of them. I came to this late, but actually eating or drinking something hot is an great way to treat hypothermia. Eating food and drinking plenty of water replenishes the body of the energy it lost and fuels it to reheat itself. 

source: I took a wilderness survival course a couple years ago.  Cool! Makes sense. Thanks for the info. Upvoted for TLDR pssssh, upvoted for TITLE Read the thing you lazy bastard. TIL somebody crossed denim with pantyhose. 

Yeah, I need to get out more.  Jeggings have been around for minimal 5 years mate. 
"Yeah, I need to get out more."


 The water was scolding? I don't see how if water can't speak. (The word you wanted was SCALDING) DOH. You didn't burn your legs?  I always do a double take when people say they showered or washed using scalding hot water. If you did that, you either have a superpower or screamed for the entire duration. Eh, it's a slight exaggeration, sure, but scalding doesn't necessarily mean that it will cause burns.

I love my showers ungodly hot.  So much so that normal people probably wouldn't stand it. This thread has been linked to from elsewhere on reddit.


 - [/r/bestofTLDR] [TL;DR But you ain&amp;#x27;t got no legs, Lieutenant Dan](http://np.reddit.com/r/bestofTLDR/comments/2ul7x5/tldr_but_you_aint_got_no_legs_lieutenant_dan/)


*^If ^you ^follow ^any ^of ^the ^above ^links, ^respect ^the ^rules ^of ^reddit ^and ^don't ^vote ^or ^comment. ^Questions? ^Abuse? [^Message ^me ^here.](http://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2Fmeta_bot_mailbag)*

 I cant believe this is a sub.  [Boy's brush with death comes out in the wash.](http://news.google.com/newspapers?nid=1914&amp;dat=19970322&amp;id=mNIgAAAAIBAJ&amp;sjid=22oFAAAAIBAJ&amp;pg=2683,3224518)

I will never ever wear any clothing that I haven't washed first. Funnily enough, that was actually the [plot of a House episode](http://www.housemd-guide.com/season1/108poison.php). Best TL;DR I've read in a long time. Congrats OP, I wish I had gold to give you.  Well, color me suprised! I did a very similar thing when I was about 15. I had a snow day off school and decided to make a snowman in the garden. I wrapped up warm and put on my new navy running shoes that I had for Christmas.

 After about half an hour I couldn't take the cold anymore and came back inside to warm up. When I took my shoes off my feet were blue. They felt cold but they looked awful! I immediately started freaking out and worrying about hypothermia and losing a toe or something. I ran upstairs and got in the shower in a frantic attempt to warm myself up. When the water ran blue and my feet magically got less blue it took me a while to realise what had happened. As my fear turned to embarrassment I felt relieved but stupid. I have never told anyone this story. Well if you can squat it probably isn't serious  A few years ago I began to notice that after morning swim practice, my skin started to appear extremely yellow. The first couple of times this happened, I was mildly intrigued but I felt fine so I didn't think much of it. After about a week, however, I started getting concerned because you could notably see a yellow-green tint all over my body, but it was especially pronounced on my chest and arms. After visiting the doctor, he was perplexed by the condition but after a battery of tests couldn't figure out what it was. He told me to report back if my symptoms got worse or if any new symptoms appeared. 

About three weeks went by before one day it just stopped completely. But three more weeks later it started back up again, much to my dismay. Long story short, I did find significant experimentation with my routine, diet, clothes, etc and eventually ended up figuring out that it was new sheets I had bought that were invisibly (or barely visibly) staining my skin over night, but only showed up after both getting in the pool and then subsequently taking a hot shower. If I only did one, my skin wouldn't turn yellow. I suspect that the trace amounts of dye reacted somehow with the chlorine and the heat to stain my skin. Needless to say, I got rid of those sheets, because even after washing then 4 or 5 times in a row, there was still enough dye in them to color my skin. Yeah, science! Weird and interesting! I think I've seen this episode on Untold Stories of the ER. Some janitorial staff member, who can't speak English, is taken into the ER and everyone is assuming she has been a domestic abuse victim as she is covered with purple bruises. She can't communicate if that is the case and translators are unavailable due to an impending hurricane.

Lo and behold, they happen to wet and wipe her skin for some reason or another and discover that the "bruises" wipe off. These staff members were just given brand new purple uniforms, or some such, and she hadn't washed them before wearing. Shew. As someone with Raynaud's who also likes indigo jeans, I have also done this.  I had to Google jeggings lol HA! I have done that myself, OP! I had bought these brand new jeans and wore them for the first time. I noticed when I was on the toilet that my legs were slightly purple, it was cold out and sometimes they turn a weird purple and I was kinda concerned but didn't think much of it. I decided to head to the bathroom after my shift to just check up and they were still purple. I started freaking out because my cousin was giving me shit about having liver damage not too long ago after a night of partying. I went home, took a shower and saw that the coloring was coming off.

There's a reason why some tags say, "wash before wearing" If you have binge watched house, why the hell did you not wash new pants, did you not see the episode where they kids are dying because of something like that? I guess you missed the episode of house where the guy got sick from wearing new jeans without washing them first You have no idea how much I can relate to this post. Back in middle school I had just gotten a new pair of sheets. These were a nice dark blue set of sheets that my mother had just washed and spread on my bed. I used em, slept, woke up, got driven to school, and only when someone pointed it out to me did I notice my face was dyed a lovely shade of suffocation blue. After several minutes of flipping the fuck out, I ran to the restroom to wash my face seeing if that would help and lo and behold my hands were now blue, an my face wasn't. 

I too have felt your shade of embarrassment.  I up voted without reading...because fuck pants. to quote Timmy Turners dad "pants are for squares" Hey you have Raynaud's Disease, too?!? I also have it, but it mainly just affects my hands. The doctors I've seen have also told me to basically just deal with it. There aren't too many treatments for it. 

Anyway that sounds pretty scary. Glad it wasn't anything serious! This seems like the appropriate punishment for wearing Jeggings. Aw god I cackled  I am amused by this. As someone who wears exclusively black clothing (don't judge me) I have had a few "from store to skin" experiences bleed ink on me and make me feel filthy. who the fuck has visible feet in class in january? This same female who also decided to wear jeggings instead of real pants in January.  Always wash because the ink can be toxic and leach into your skin.   Who doesn't think every medical thing is lethal after watching House? I'm also binge watching House. I know the feels This story is so suspenseful when you read the TL;DR first. That's awful! Sounds like something I would do, and I don't even have raynauds (I think). I am sonetimes so quick to self diagnose with the worst case scenario only to find out it's something silly and feel dumb. As silly as this may seem to others, as someone with a chronic health condition I can relate to the fear and panic. Glad it turned out to be nothing more serious than a case of a cheap dye job!  best tl;dr "I don't need no legs to fuck yo bitch, Forrest!"

"NOT JENNAY"

"What? No. I was talking about Bubba. God damn it, Gump!"  That TL;DR fucking killed me. I HAD THIS HAPPEN TO ME ONCE!

I had new jeans on though, and they dyed my thighs a nice shade of blue, I freaked out until I noticed my panties were also blue, then I was just confused. You should always wash new clothes before wearing them.  You have no idea how many people have touched/worn the clothes before you, and most stores regularly put returned clothing back on the rack.  There's also all kinds of dyes/chemicals used in the manufacture of clothing that are usually not very good for your skin. Ah, reminds me of the three hours I convinced myself I had testicular cancer. Could you imagine how much more of an idiot you'd feel if you called an ambulance and the doctor had to tell you it was just your pants? I'm really glad you're okay, OP. I also bought dark wash jeans and wore them before I washed them.  My legs turned purple, and so did my daughter's, from sitting on my lap. This was fucking hilarious. Thanks for the read. Honestly, that in itself could've been a house episode Had a patient come into the emergency department with blue fingers. No apparent capillary refill. Her radial pulse was super strong, so I was rather confused. Ordered a doppler anyway. It was a busy day and I didn't have time to spend gathering a 20 minute long history. I go back in to check on her before she went for her test and lo and behold the color was starting to come back...and also rub off on her other hand. Turns out she was wearing new jeans and the dye rubbed off on her hand. Her husband almost killed her for freaking out and demanding she be taken to the hospital.  The real lesson here is that jeggings aren't pants. So stop wearing them  Had the same thing happen. 

My long estranged mother was mad her other daughter was taken away by child services. She thought I was the reason and decided to call child services on me anonymously saying I was beating my 2 year old son. Child services HAS to investigate EVERY complaint so they went through the process of calling all my neighbors and interviewing my son's teachers. It was horribly embarrassing, to say the least. 

Well, one day after work, I go pick up my son from daycare and my son's favorite teacher was hysterical. I guess he had an accident earlier (he peed himself, happens alot and they required an extra set of clothing at all times) and she had to help him change to dry clothes. She saw all these dark purple bruises all over his legs and, because of the inquiry, freaked out. She couldn't believe it was true! Once she calmed down, she re-examined the situation and saw the blotches were just the dye from his new (washed once) black jeans that quickly came off with baby wipes.

So my "almost" TIFU was I put new jeans on my toddler!

Edit: Forgot to mention they were black jeans to give you a color reference for the blotches One time I had to give a speech and I was wearing this new black dress I bought. I'm awful at public speaking so I got really sweaty and nervous before it was my turn so I kept rubbing my hands on my dress to dry my sweaty hands then on my face to hide the face sweat. So eventually I go up and give me speech and it goes okay. I get done and when I sit back down at my table, the lady next to me asked if I was feeling okay because my face was all purple and suggested I take a few deep breaths and lie down. 

TL;DR: cheap dress + public speaking anxiety + public speaking = purple face  I'd feel uncomfortable all day if I wore something straight out of the store without washing it first. I don't understand people who do this I honestly don't know why women wear pants. If I could get away with going to the office every day without wearing pants, I totally would. 

Shorts at the most and preferably free-balling. Don't judge me, this is the only way of life I know.

 I feel like the last thing I'd wear if I knew I had circulation problems is any sort of tight or constricting material, but more power to you. &gt;slapping my legs like an idiot, making this god awful squaking sound

wat Glad it wasn't something really bad, but everyone should really wash new clothes before you wear them. The dyes (as you so eloquently learned) can stain your skin, but the chemicals that the clothes are treated with can lead to rashes (especially with younger children). This goes for those new bed linen's and towels as well (wife thinks I am crazy for washing brand new clothes / linens / towels). That happened to me once when I wore a dark pair of jeans for the first time without having washed them. It was a rainy day, so the dye ran a lot. At some point, I went to take a shit and noticed that my legs were grey. Completely grey. Black and white photo grey. I also freaked out, and the thought that came to my mind before I took a shower and realized what had happened, was that I had developed a form of color blindness where I couldn't see the specific shade of pink that my cold legs should have been. http://i.imgur.com/rIsGzDh.gif If it was serious you wouldn't of been able to run around doing squats. &gt;TL;DR But you ain't got no legs, Lieutenant Dan

That Forrest Gump reference tho
 If I wasn't such a cheap bastard, I would totally gild you for that TL;DR.  Jeggings...not even once after washed. Up vote just because of the TL;DR [Sounds like Lupus](http://media-cache-ak0.pinimg.com/736x/bd/7e/69/bd7e69455061ac1b2d069dca0cb2d76d.jpg) Raynaud's sucks! I have it too and I probably would have freaked out too. Even had it in my nipples while trying to breastfeed my babies. That was the worst. **Real TL;DR:**

Hypochondria leads to more hypochondria. Is your username a joke, kind of like when Willow on Buffy says "Me and Oz like to play Mistress of Pain," or are you really a top? All of these fetish threads lately have me straight up asking people about stuff like that like it's my business. I awoke this morning, thinking of pants,

I quickly changed, my feeble mind,

I said to myself, I'll be as dumb, as one can be,

Three hours later, my plan was conceived.




 Leggings are not pants... TIL if you don't wash your leggins, your legs will become purple I always thought pants were evil, now I have proof! Hey I have that too but mostly in my hands and a little in my feet

never had purple though its always dead white. Mine normally starts as a pale white (which is hard to tell because I'm Scandinavian and we are mayonnaise-white) then turns to a shade of purple, and then to bright red as the blood returns to that area.  I always get white then purple with orange highlighter style spots  Do you get blue lips? My lips look like i have boue lipstick on Clicked this thinking "Wow, this is going to be an interesting story!"

Was not disappointed, thanks OP! You lost me at the TL;DR Similar thing happened with my cousin while Winter camping, he looked like he had major hypothermia because his new blue sleeping bag had dyed him. Reminds me of the time my feet turned blue while rock climbing...
Because of the mixture of sweat and new blue leather climbing shoes... in my opinion wearing pants is always a fuckup

but whatever floats your goat \_()_/ amirite? "God awful squawking sounds". Thats the part that got me. Spit hot chocolate at my mom. TIL what jeggings were. Did this when I was 13 or so. Woke up at 6:45, the sun was rising... dressed super quickly and was at my bus stop before I realized the sun was setting...  Did the same, got showered and ready and went downstairs just in time for dinner. I literally just did this. Took a nap and woke up a 7:45 pm thinking it was am and proceeded to freak out One time I was sick, and took a nap . Woke up around 7. Sister is eating, mom is watching Dancing with the Stars. "Are they doing a morning recap? Anyway mom, I don't think I'm gonna be going to school again today. I still feel awful."
Then I realized the sun was setting, not rising. These reddit posts are making me feel considerably smarter. Its ok. One day i went to bed at 7pm and woke up 24 hours later at 7pm.. I had work at 7am that day. Showed up ready to work, but my boss was pretty mad. I kept the job though, and got a raise. Shoulda kept it.  I'm wondering, how many of these stories are preceded by a game of civilization?  How the hell did you sleep for 24 hours? I was up for three days on my ADHD medication.  I was sick one time in the holidays, I had told my mother I was gonna take a nap before dinner. I went to bed at about 7:15pm, woke up at 9:00pm, went into the kitchen, asked for dinner. I had slept for three days... What the fuck? 3 days?  Once fell asleep after coming home from school. Woke up at almost 7pm the next day, panicked and ran to find parents, totally freaked out that I slept through a whole day.

... or so I thought.  It was the same day. I had only only been asleep 3 hours, but thought I was asleep for over 24. 

Turns out I was coming down with Chicken pox. Good times. But the realization of reality is one of the best feelings in the world.

You take the nap and wake up and see 7:45 on the clock and think you're late for work, you have a full on panic as you jump up and you get a surge of adrenaline to help you move fast to get ready.  Then you realize it's 7:45 PM and you're fine, you're overcome with a feeling of relief, but you still have that adrenaline rush. Until you can't sleep until 5 AM thanks to it. 24 hour clock master race here. Although I've mistaken a Sunday for a Monday before, so I'm not that different. Man that's almost like winning an extra weekend day.  You'd think that, but usually it's just another near panic attack as you race from your snuggly, warm bed.  24 Hour watch that also tells the day masterrace* Checking whether it is AM or PM master race. It feels so fucking weird going from "It's morning" to "the sun is setting" in your head Are you kidding me? BEST feeling in the world I don't know about that. When that happens to me, all I can think is "WHY WON'T THIS DAY END ALREADY??" The day AT&amp;T bought Cingular, my phone (and alarmclock's) clock changed to the wrong time zone and get me up three hours early. Same deal. Took me a half hour to figure out why the bus was so late! Not saying you're wrong but Cingular was always owned at least partly by AT&amp;T... the name changed when AT&amp;T, who already owned 50%, bought the remaining 50%. So I have no idea why that would have resulted in glitched timekeeping for Cingular phones, other than AT&amp;T just sucks My mom used to pull a version of this as a prank on her sister..

My Mom was/is a night owl and used to regularly stay up until 3-4AM reading. Her sister, my aunt, always took the longest to get ready in the AM so she would always be the first one up to get ready for school. She was also a very heavy sleeper and always groggy before her morning shower. My mom would sneak in her room in the middle of the night and move her clock forward about 4 hours so she would wake up around 2:00am instead of 6:00. She'd wake up and walk straight to bathroom to shower and get ready for school. My mother would then act like she was awoken by the shower and ask her what she was doing up at 230 getting ready for school while trying not cackle at her diabolicalness.

tl;dr: I love my mom

**EDIT you guys need to calm yourselves. My Mom and Aunt both laugh about it to this day and she would never be upset about it nor did she end up in the poor house cause lack of sleep and loss of productivity*** Did your mom move the clock back to normal when she was showering? Probably.  Reddit: Where you can answer for others, even though you have no idea, and still get widespread approval. Isn't that how this if supposed to work? When my siblings and I were kids, my parents use to set all the clocks up an hour on New Years and we would celebrate the NY on the TV during the eastern timezone so they could go to bed earlier. They never told us until we were much older. Now parents can just play the countdown in Netflix whenever they want.  What an age we live in... these edits always make me laugh like someone jumped to some crazy conclusion and left some hateful message so this ridiculous edit had to be added Have you read some of the comments? They're fucking ridiculous. Several people are freaking the fuck out down there over his story.  [deleted] I got called a bundle of sticks en masse for every single post I have ever made. Don't worry, Reddit IS a bundle of sticks often. You fucking bundle of sticks Something like this happened to me. My step-dad woke us up to get ready for school, so me and my brother are frantically getting dressed to catch the bus when my mom asked what we were doing. Getting ready for school of course. She was like why, it's Sunday. I was pissed but at the same time didn't have school so couldn't really be mad. My sister did this to me once. Woke me up in a rush saying "mom didn't wake you up for school so you have to really hurry!" By the time I got to the kitchen I was in as major panic. Until I saw my mom calm as can be chewing bubble gum. It was a snow day so she was letting me sleep in. My sister is just a dick.  Speaking of pranks my brothers and I pulled something amazing and I just have to share.

My two female cousins are bitches.

I only tell you this so the rest of this story will makes sense and put everything into it's proper context.

(TL;DR at the end.)

My two female cousins were staying at my house for a month because their parents were going away or something, I don't remember exactly why they were there.

Anyway, we all had to be up by about 6:00 and my brothers and I were always about 15 minutes late getting up and by that time they'd occupied both showers for the next 45 fucking minutes or so, I'm not kidding, every GODDAMN morning they'd take both bathrooms for an hour or more, to shower and cake on their make up or whatever, and every morning they'd make some snide ass comment along the lines of "Well if you'd be up ON TIME!"

Finally, we snapped, we'd had enough of them being total see you next tuesday's and we hatched an elaborate plan.

My brother took his massive stereo, with it's massive speakers, that was in their "borrowed" room and cranked up the volume, then he set it to play the Mission Impossible theme song at 3:30 am.

We went to bed early the night before, and awoke around 3, got cleaned up and ready for the day, and then sat in wait for the next ten minutes (seriously, we were very efficient at getting up and ready to go in a short period of time, without them, we could afford to be late getting up).

That radio went off right on time, full blast DUN DUN DUN DA DUN DUN DA DUN DADALA DADALA DADALA anyway you get the point.

The screams were legendary, it was pure ecstasy listening to them freaking the fuck out and trying to understand what in the hell was happening.

Needless to say, we never heard snide comments from them again, and to this day, our Mission Totally Possible lives on in family legend.


**TL;DR** Got back at our extremely stuck up, snotty cousins by waking them up almost three hours early to a house shaking performance of the Mission Impossible theme song.

If you somehow haven't heard it before, here's the theme song: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XAYhNHhxN0A  Imagine that, but so loud the **fucking** walls shook! If someone did this to me I would be so pissed off. It is almost impossible for me to fall asleep, and if I get woken up after I've fallen asleep I usually can't go back to sleep. Which makes you the perfect target:) i'm the same way as krakkin, so, we'll probably have to kill you now.  I swear to fucking god if any of you disturb /u/Krakkin's slumber I will  shoot some fucking fireballs at your parents house &gt;  would then act like she was awoken by the shower and ask her what she was doing up at 230 getting ready for school w

yeah i feel you.  I feel like I am disciplined "non complainer" but if you wake me when I'm trying to sleep I act like the biggest baby and throw a temper tantrum.   I did something similar to my sister who slept very hard.  I got up to use the bathroom at around 2am and when I walked back upstairs I knocked on her door and said "your turn" like I did every morning after I was through my shower.  She walked downstairs to the bathroom, turned the water on, and then figured it out. That's how bitches get murdered in their sleep. My kid was playing with my alarm clock and changed the time, I went to bed and did not notice.  My alarm went off in the morning and I woke the kids up for school and got them dressed while I got myself ready for work.  When we were all ready, I went to check the weather online.  That was when I realized that it was only 2am.  I fixed the time on my alarm clock and we all went back to bed.
 The kids must've been confused the whole time :D A coworker told me a story from before I was hired. 

He left work at 5 pm and was super tired, so he took a nap when he got home. He woke up and see his clock said 8:30. So he called his boss' cell and kindly informed him that he wasn't going to make it in today, and would use a personal day. 

After a little back and forth, his boss asked him did he know what time it was, to which my coworker responded "8:35." 

&gt; coworker's boss: yes. 8:35 PM! See you in the morning.  Wow. Haha I've done something like this before. In my house my mom doesn't like people napping, and it was a Sunday after I had pulled an all nighter and I wasn't feeling so good, so at around 1 PM after I had lunch I crawled into my room, rolled up into a ball and fell asleep. My mom woke me up when she got home around 7 PM, and I was super confused. I had thought she woke me up to get ready for school, so I did. After I had gotten ready I walked outside and waited by my mom's car. After several minutes of waiting I went to the door and knocked it to find out what was taking so long, and my mom came out and yelled "What are you doing outside of the house at 7PM, SirNoms" she also didn't like me out of the house after 6PM. I explained to her the situation and we had a good laugh out of it. I ended up showering then playing video games for a couple hours. 

Anyways I can relate to this feeling. I did end up getting a lot of sleep before I went to school the next day though, so I was more energized than I usually am.  Your mom sounds like a nazi... I mean this in the least offensive way possible.  Thinking of it that way, she is. LOL if I'm on my computer a minute past when I'm supposed to get off, she takes away my computer for a week No offense, but aren't you getting constantly pissed off constantly by your mom? I got pissed off just by reading this I do get pissed off since I play League of Legends, and I can't just get off at a certain time like my mom wants. And I also get pissed off since my friends need to worry about when they take me back home since my mom doesn't want to take me places Are you... Asian?

I don't mean this in any other way than "sounds like my upbringing."

Now for the "racist" part: I know maybe two white families that treat their kids like this. But most other immigrant families are in line with mine. Yes I am Asian.  That explains everything. No offense, man, but it does.  /r/AsianParentStories  \o/

But of course! You'd better be good at LoL too! reached G1 last season.  Only gold? I thought you said you were asian dude  Why you no doctor yet Why he only Sir and no England king yet Can confirm. Am Asian and had a very similar upbringing /r/raisedbynarcissists Check out /r/AsainParentStories /r/AsianParentStories

FTFY Spelled it wrong.   Oh, well, now it all makes sense. Carry on with your day. You should ask her why she is so strict. I know i asked my dad why he was such an asshole all the time and he actually reflected on his past actions and realized he was being too hard on me and our family too often. Now he hardly gets angry. People are going to continue doing what they are doing until they realize its too much. Not my dad haha. My mom and I make it very clear to him all the time that he is a raging asshole and he's like "ok whatever stfu". Terrible fathers club! Just wait til mine finds out I'm gay! HAH! LEPRECHOORRRN! Are you my sibling? Don't think so lol only child. He's a raging asshole cheater! ***WINK*** Be careful with this. Some parents (such as my father) will just get pissed at you and you'll probably be worse off than before.

Some people just arent able to see from anyone's perspective but their own. My mum did not approve of my college psychology diagnosis of her severe OCD and Bipolar disorder. 
I live in my own flat now.  I'm not sure whether that's sarcasm or not...  Literally at the start of every abnormal psy class, they tell you
  "you're going to be diagnosing your friends, family, and dog" I was about to say "sorry, but this is terrible advice," then remembered my parents were narcissists, while this guy's mom just sounds like a control freak. Not the same thing, so probably not the same reactions. So... Good advice. Probably don't phrase it as "Why are you such an asshole," though. Your mom is bad. She should be more like my parents and smoke meth and do pills And I thought my mom was annoying for wanting me back at 11pm after hanging out. You gotta get some shit sorted son, otherwise you should get to work building a peanut butter castle in your basement. Be a rebel! wee Urgh it's the same thing for BF4.  My mom yells at me when I don't come out for dinner because I'm in the middle of a match, and you can't just leave in the middle, especially if you're going 35/0... I'm pretty sure in LoL you get punished for leaving before the match is over Same with CS:GO. Can't just leave these games. It's a risk ill take.  You should show her this: http://boards.na.leagueoflegends.com/en/c/miscellaneous/bEhf1EPt-open-letter-to-parents-of-league-of-legends-players I saw that the other day. The problem with showing her this is, it pretty much means I'll never get to play a game due to her giving me 
Like an hour of free time on week nights, and if I get into an unlucky game that's GG for me. She also takes away all my electronics before I go to bed but I saved up for a Vita to use at night.  Holy fuck sounds like my mom and stepdad  I used to read all night so my mum would confiscate my light bulbs at bed time.  You need to assert your dominance wat, please tell me you're like 10. For his sake I'm hoping he is just a kid, but then it means that people on reddit are like 12 :/ Geez, this makes me feel like a very relaxed and lazy parent. I can't imagine being that strict, but who knows, maybe you'll turn out better than my kids (god I hope I don't screw my kids up!) If you show concern about your kids' development, that's a good sign. My parents make me put my phone up at 9 every school night, I only recently started to be able to go out frequently, I can't use my phone if I'm eating (even if I'm eating like popcorn in front of the TV or chips watching football or something), I don't have a computer, I can't use the computer unless I have homework, they won't let me upgrade my piece of shit phone that barely turns on (using my own money), they took my bank card because i pecked my girlfriend one too many times on the lips and hugged her (basically having sex obviously) at school, so now I work for free and can't touch the money I'm earning, they are really strict about everything, they like to tell me no just because "we've been saying yes a lot lately", they're always super strict and intrusive and want to know everything, yet somehow they forget to care about my personal life. They just want to be the boss or  something, it seems. I honestly don't know because every time i tell them something like this, they manage to convince me I'm wrong and a bad son. And I could go on and on. This isn't even half of it. 


Best part? I'm seventeen years old. I graduate highschool in three months. My GPA was about 2,5 until i made the decision on my own that i wanted to succeed. The first time I tried pot and alcohol, I went completely overboard, I fucked everything up and almost ruined my entire life. All because of this crazy restriction and once i tasted freedom i lost my shit. I had to make the conscious decision on my own to fix it. 

Now, comparing myself to some of my friends, one drinks for fun and sometimes smokes pot, he gets good, not amazing, but respectable grades, he's probably going to college in Canada, and his parent are pretty loose with him. As long as he has his shit together he's good to go. My other friend is the same way, he's probably going to an out of state university next semester. My girlfriends parents are pretty loose with her too, they let her go out_ they're nice with her, maybe even let her have a drink sometimes, everything like that. And she has her shit together better than just about anyone I know. 

So yeah. I just wanted to vent and let you know that you should let yourself not worry. If you become all strict and intrusive and psychotic, your kids might end up like me. You don't really want that. This is a great vent, I'm glad you had it. Nice job with getting your grades up, that's awesome. My parents were very open with me and raised me to have a sense of judgement on my own. They knew I was a smart kid and guided me down the path of learning on my own, for which I am very thankful. It absolutely pains me when I meet kids whose parents are freakishly possessive (like all the kids in this thread, I feel 4 u). 

That being said, I'm not nearly as hard of a worker as others. I was blessed with being decently smart and used this heavily rather than relying on studying hard and doing homework. This bites me in the ass from time to time.

I still managed to graduate with a 3.5 gpa and this was with at least one college level course from sophomore to senior year. 

I guess what I'm trying to say is when I have kids, I'm going to teach them how to think for themselves instead of telling them what to do. 

It's difficult for a parent to do this because you lose a lot of authority over your children... but I think it's better than telling your kids how they're going to live their whole life. There are, of course, counter arguments for all of this; I feel that in the grand scheme, it's the better decision as a parent. 
I'm a college student now, going to school for a fraction of the cost due to scholarships. All of my friends from highschool drink, and some do drugs (not necessarily judging, just showing comparison) and I've never been drunk or high in my life, even though my parents never kept a strict eye on me.  Hey, are our moms the same? Back in december my mom said if I hadn't finished my chemistry by a certain date shed take my ps3 away. I finished it on that date, got 100 on all 3 assignments I submitted. She took my ps3 and I still don't have it back Your mom sounds like my mom, except with a lot less abuse and hitting you with a car. Wut I can vouch. She is. He came over the other day because she got mad at him. She called him and told him to come home 15 minutes after he got to my house Agreed.  I bet if OP broke his arms, his mom wouldn't even jack him off. Pro tip: if you don't want to be offensive don't compare people to nazis I can see you in college randomly calling up your mom like

"Hey mom guess what I just did?... I napped. For TWO hours. In the DAY."

"Hey mom guess what I'm doing?... It's 6:02 and I'm outside (of the dorm)."

Hey mom it's 11:47 in the night and guess what I'm doing?... I'm on my computer."

Anyway, my mom was strict too, but not to these standards. In my opinion, your mom has worse stuff to worry about when it comes to her teenage son than napping, being outside after 6 pm, and being on the computer late (and  since you're 15 years old I'm sure you could just think of many **many** things). My mom eventually pushed me too far with the strictness and I had a talk with them and we settled a few things that way. I think strict parenting is okay, so long as the parents don't get out of control with it. Just 3 more years SirNoms! Hey Mom I burnt my hand.  At niight. &gt; In my house my mom doesn't like people napping, 

I understand the computer thing and the curfew - those are rules. Strict rules but every family is different and I get it.

Why can't you nap though? Isn't that like, borderline unhealthy, especially when you pulled an all nighter?  Hasn't there been studies that show teenagers require more sleep than adults.  I remember hear that but don't remember where I heard it. Many studies have shown this, but parents and teachers refuse to take it into account. Other studies have shown that students do better in school when they start and end later, and have shorter class times. Many schools (mine included) have recently (since the studies, anyway) changed to have the students go to school earlier, and have increased class time by about ten minutes. Wait, so...

Because of these studies showing that students do better when starting and ending *later* and with *shorter* classes, your school decided to start *earlier* with *longer* classes?

Da faq?

E: spelling My mum doesn't believe in naps either. Unless she's napping ofc. I think the point is so that you go to bed at the correct time and wake up refreshed. I know when I was a teen I would nap as soon as I got home from school for 3 or 4 hours, stay up all night watching toonami, and then be tired at school and fall asleep during class.

Sucks back then that I had rules, but looking back you start to realize why the rules were there. You have your own kids and you start making the same rules for them, or be a parent that doesn't care that brings a whole slew of problems. Are you seven years old? I'm 15 I wasn't allowed to go too far from the front door of my house when I was a kid, and my mom was continually harassing me with, "don't go so far - stay closer - no you can't go around the corner on your bike" etc. until I finally told her to stop smothering me. She started to yell at me and I yelled back for the first time and told her she was going to ruin my life if she didn't let me take care of myself at some point, I can handle being out of her sight for more than 30 seconds, etc.

I was about 9 years old. After that, I was allowed to ride my bike around the corner. When I made it back safely, it became a non-issue. I would go farther and farther until I wasn't even in the same neighborhood; I was playing street hockey with some friends around the way. I would go home and tell her where I would be and then go out again. This was before cell phones, too. 

The reason I'm telling you this is because I regularly see kids that don't ever confront their parents on these things end up having the most insanely overbearing parents imaginable *in their mid 20's.* These are the same parents who follow them to college and harass their teachers ... who take them to job interviews and try to talk to the managers for them.

Don't forget that your parents may be adults, but in a lot of ways, nobody ever really "grows up." Especially first time parents; they don't always realize when they should relinquish a modicum of control (like standing outside your house after dark at 15...). 

I grew up with a single mom, so I would have been babied my entire life if I hadn't gotten out on my own and made my own mistakes along the way; this is a very important part of growing up.  She tried to follow me into job interviews and talk to managers and I had to stop her many times throughout my life.

She's an awesome person by the way; I have a great relationship with my mom, but I can only imagine how weird our relationship would be now if I never told her to get off my ass.  Yep, I've sort of gotten my parents off my ass too. Restrictions on where I could go were not a big deal before I could drive, but once I could, my parents were fairly protective. However, how I got around this was by going places I wasn't supposed to or staying out late (I never did anything illegal... I just like driving around, so I would drive through the countryside until 1 AM instead of staying in town, etc.), and then telling my parents what I did the next day. They used to yell at me but finally relented and realized it's going to happen. It probably helps that I don't go to parties and don't do drugs, or engage in other illegal/dangerous activities. I tried that once 

"Hey, i dont do drug, or drink, or go around having sex with anyone! Im a pretty good kid, you can trust me!"

Their response was something along the lines of: "well we dont beat you and we arent addicted to drugs so you should be grateful and do whatever we tell you" "You can do both if it means more freedom for me!" I also finally snapped and yelled back for the first time in my life, I was 15 and not aloud to go to see my friends a few 100 meters away from us, I felt amazing like this is going to be a turning point I'm finally shouting back. I got real mad and shouted that I wasn't going to get murdered or raped and she yelled back at me that she did. So after a whole childhood of suppressing my anger so as not to upset my Mom, (she was very depressed), the only time I yell at her and I find out she was raped, I've never forgiven myself for it, I'm incapable of expressing anger, I just end up crying when I get angry and because I always looked after her have never managed to speak to anyone about it. Just so you know, it isn't your fault or your mom's fault that she was raped. It is very unfortunate that she went through that, and her being a little over protective over, I'm assuming you're her daughter, is okay. That being said, I still think it's way too much to withhold you from your friends who only live 100 m away from you. She probably has severe trust issues, so the best course of action is to gain her trust to gain your freedom. Having grown up with a mom who was neglective of me, I know what it's like to have a mom deal with her childhood and past horrors by taking it out on me. She loves you though, and doesn't want to see you hurt.  Im so afraid I will turn into one of these parents because I feel as if I will be very over protective of my offspring if I ever get any...but the upside is Im super lazy so maybe there is still hope for my future kids. I did not want this happening to me, so the day I turned 18 I started trying everything I could to remain independent. My parents were trying to confiscate my own possessions and control how late I slept etc. I'm finding it hard to stand up for myself without being a complete asshole. When I was 15 I was doing hoodrat stuff with my friends. Seriously when I was 15 I was eating acid in the woods every weekend. When I was 15, it was a very good year. It was a very good year, for small town girls. I remember small town 15 year old girls. Just me and her,  walking around in the crisp fall air holding hands.   Talking about nothing because who cares.  Going to a  bonfire and making out all night.  

Those were the good ole days.  Man I miss being 43.   [so does this guy](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-bhNz6saaE8)  (although he's been dead for a while, so he can't really miss it) How's your internet connection in Pakistan? Dude wtf. Im 15 and my mom lets me at least go out a bit. And take naps. And play computer. His mom is asian. Oh that's it Come on man, he's seven and a half. Get it right.  Sorry dude but your mom sucks She doesn't like people napping? Why?  &gt; I can't just get off at a certain time like my mom wants

What time does she want you to get off? (   ) http://i.imgur.com/uLVEt.gif When I was in high school I was put on muscle relaxants (for pain, but it only made my condition worse)  I woke up in a panic, hopped in the shower, got in my clothes and collapsed in tears in my mother's room.  

"what's wrong nanna? " my mother asked. 

I sobbed" I'm late  for school.  I can't find my shoes, dad is going to be mad " 

My shoes were on my feet, it was  midnight, and my father was out buying my mother ice-cream.  

I was taken off the medication that day, it was one of many incidents caused by the medication.  Including one where I fell down the stairs and pissed myself.  High school was rough. Wow, I'm really sorry about that. 

If you don't mind me asking, what condition did you have? My negligent doctor thought I had "whiney high schooler hates stairs syndrome"  but I have ehlers danlos syndrome...  The connective tissue in my joints had become stretched to the point my knees barely stayed in their sockets and constantly locked up.  My muscle strength was the only thing keeping my joints in place.  

I throw my hip out once a week, have near constant pain in my knees and hips, my ankles give way easily.  I'm 23.  I know it's not the same thing as I can't even remember the name of the 'condition', but I have very little cartilage in my knees and can't take the stairs routinely; I'm lucky to have had tests done stating this though - turns out my legs are inverted below my knees as well which causes a bunch of strain on my knees if I try to walk like a normal person rather than a pigeon. The only way it could be permanently corrected is through a very invasive surgery, and temporarily corrected through extensive (and expensive!) physical therapy. I'm sorry your doctor was such a tit, I can't imagine having to deal with my knees how they are and nobody believing me. I even managed to get out of high school gym class! 

Really though, I'm sorry that you have to deal with all that wackiness and pain. I know mine isn't as bad I just wanted to let you know that you're not alone with your knee problems and they really do suck. I always get the "You're too young to have knee problems!" line and it's infuriating. :( I know I'm too young! It sucks! It drives me nuts! I'm 23 and no one believes that my shit is all sorts of fucked up. My boyfriend calls me a "Granny" because I'll get out of my chair, grab my hip and wince "I threw it out again". to be honest I've grown to live with it, the pain only really bother's me when the weather gets bad... otherwise its livable...you get used to it after a while... If I thought I was late for something, I'd be checking my phone and/or watch like every 30 seconds, lol. How did you not check your phone until you noticed like three weird things?  Probably just too tired and adrenaline rushed...... If I'm on time or early I'm always checking the time to make sure that will still be the case. If I'm late it's all about getting to the destination ASAP, I don't have time to divert my attention to my phone to see how late I'm still going to be. I've accidentally been up to a few hours early on a number of occasions. There was one time a buddy and I accidentally left a day early on a road trip from Minnesota to New York for a conference. We didn't notice until we got to Pennsylvania, we decided to make the most of it and detoured to Washington DC for a day.  Once when me and my brother were really young my dad thought it would be hilarious to wake us up and tell us to get ready for school. He changed all the clocks in the house even though we were young enough we just went with it unquestioningly. After getting ready we all got in the car to head to school.

Except it was like 8 pm. The fucker. Every few months I get a text from my mom asking if I'm alive.  Wrong thread? No just thought someone here would care ;_; :( Maybe your mom wants you to call her. Sharing a hotel room with a coworker at the moment. Not a great time haha Your mom cares! Talk to her. I know. I wish someone would finally invent some sort of audible noise that could wake you up at whatever time you wanted to get up at. Gee that would be great! What would it be called though?  *An attractive middle-aged man in a tan suit and bow-tie walks up to a door. He knocks. Blump opens the door.*

Blump: "Hello?"

Man: "I need to show you something."

Blump: "Um... okay. You don't look like you're going to hurt me. I suppose I can trust you. That suitcase is a little worrying though."

Man (excitedly): "That's what I'm going to show you!"

*Blump shrugs and ushers the man into his house. The mysterious man walks to Blump's kitchen counter and opens the suitcase, revealing some kind of device.*

Blump: "What... what is that?"

Man: "A device inspired by you."

Blump: "Huh?"

Man: "Thirty-five years ago, you wrote a comment on Reddit expressing a desire for someone to invent some sort of audible noise that could wake you up at whatever time you wanted to get up at."

Blump: "I had nearly forgotten."

Man: "I have now created that device."

Blump: "You're kidding. But technology hasn't reached that point!"

Man: "It has now."

*Blump steps back in shock*

Man: "Observe the device - aside from being practical, it's also aesthetically really sleek, wouldn't you say?"

Blump: "I *would* say!"

*Suddenly, Blump's lover, Jay, walks out of the bedroom in a towel. He walks over to observe the device.*

Blump: "Jay, look - it's the audible noise device I always dreamed of!"

Jay: "That's really cool. I must ask the obvious question though."

Blump and Man, simultaneously: "What?"

Jay: "What will it be called though?"

Man: "Ah! Now that's something I've already thought of. It is an Automatic Sleep Stopper."

Jay: "It's an ASS?"

Man: "It's an ASS."

Blump: "Well, it's a damn fine looking ASS."

Man: "Thank you. I can't tell you how long I've waited to be complimented on my thirty-five year old ASS."

 Change the name to Audible Sleep Stopper and we can go 50/50 on it.  Also, Jay was my personal trainer. He had a job interview so I let him take a shower. Blump: "It's a good script. It's good, but..."

Sas: "What?"

Blump: "I think it would be funnier if it was called 'Audible Sleep Stopper.'

Sas: "I actually thought about that - seeing as the word 'audible' was in your comment. But I think if a device of this purpose were actually named in this fashion, it would be more logical to call it an automatic sleep stopper. Because that's what it does. It automatically stops your sleep. To call it audible would be redundant because that's what causes the stopping of sleep."

Blump: "I disagree. Change it, or I won't sign for it."

Sas: "So be it."

*In that moment, the earth opens up to reveal flames and lava beneath the surface. Twelve hell-hounds all jump up out of the gaping hole one after the other. They proceed to rip Blump to pieces with their teeth and then carry his carcass down to the depths of hell*

Sas: "Damn, I keep forgetting that I open up Hades every time I get angry. Anyone have a Snickers?" Naus: Need a moment? Oh my gosh that's great! That brought a smile to my face on a day that hasn't been so great. I would give you gold but I don't have the money to do so. [Instead you can have this]( http://m.imgur.com/gallery/sy9lVl4) You seriously did an amazing job writing this, the dialogue feels both natural and hilarious and the punchline is fantastic.  Sas: "Aw, thank you. Compliments make me feel warm and cuddly."

*Sas hears a voice in his head telling him to 'kill Anony now, he's exposing your weakness to compliments.'*

Sas: "Shut up! I won't listen to you!"

Anony: "What?"

Sas: "Nothing." Huh. You... I like you.
 Applause. Maybe OP has issues waking up even to an alarm. I know I do. I place my alarms (yes multiple) in different points of the room away from the bed. Even still I frequently either sleep through them, or disable them in my sleep. The only thing that used to get close to a high success rate was having my phone plugged into my stereo set to high volume. The complaints from my neighbors put an end to that practice though. And contrary to my internet namesake, I'm not taking sleep supplements\aids. For me they cause more trouble than they are worth. 

On the flip side if someone is staying over all they have to do is whisper my name and I'll be up in an instant. It doesn't seem to work with recordings though, there has to be a person present to get it to work.  God do I know those feels. I have to be at work everyday at 8am. I set my regular alarm on high at 6:30am, my phone alarms at 6:35am and 6:40am, my super loud computer alarm that you can hear from my street at 6:45am, then my phone alarms again at 5 minute increments from 6:50am-7:30am. Usually I'll snooze my regular alarm a few times too, so that goes off in between all of them. I generally finally get out of bed at 7:15am, so I have to rush to get ready and get to work every morning. 

My girlfriend hates it when she spends the nights at my place on weekdays. I start a little earlier than you do, but almost exactly the same. I have two old cell phones that I have alarms set on as well so that in my groggy state I have to figure out which device is going off. That has helped somewhat. I have 4 alarms and most of the time I sleep right through them. use an app that makes you solve shit before you can deactivate it.

I use [this](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.kog.alarmclock&amp;hl=en) but alternatives probably exist like [this](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=net.havchr.mr2) and [this](https://itunes.apple.com/us/app/betterme/id593717331?ls=1&amp;mt=8) I don't have to solve anything if the alarm never wakes me up in the first place  Same here I made an alarm clock that worked really well. I had one of those shooting games with the laser pistol and a target on the wall. At 5:30 my alarm goes off (it's a superbell alarm) and the only way to turn it off is to go outside of my room and grab the pistol and shoot the target from long range. 

I spend 5 days making that and it broke after a couple days because I got pissed off and ripped off the cable to the alarm.  When I was in high school I woke up one time and took a shower, then got ready for school, only to realize it was 2am. I went right back to bed and never told anyone. 

I didn't even look to see what time it was either, I just woke up and thought it was time to get ready and didn't even bother to look at the clock or take notice that both of my parents were still home. My step dad always left around 5-6am and his truck was still there.  I did that in high school enough times to count on two hands.

The best part was how great it felt to go back to sleep. It always felt like I was getting more than I actually was. Your dad may have thought 'that little fapper' Ohhh, the feeling. Just like waking up on saturday in total panic "Crap I have to be at work!"..... "ow, wait, it's saturday" :D

At least you had a nice midnight walk ;) One time a friend of mine pulled a morning drunk and passed out around 2pm.  When she woke up at 6pm, she was confused (and probably still a little drunk) and thought it was the morning of the next day.  Her husband decided to mess with her - he started making pancakes and coffee and asking her what she wanted to do today.  It wasn't until the sun started setting that she figured it out... Sounds like a win on all fronts. He got a laugh and she got excellent hangover food, plus still had a full night's sleep ahead! upvote for optimism. This reminds me of something that I did when I was in high school. I came home from school at the normal time. I lived a block from my school. We would get out at 2:30 and after chatting with friends for a bit I would usually arrive home no later than 3:00. When I got home I sat in the chair in our living room and passed out. When I woke up the clock said it was 6:45. It was winter time so it was already dark out. For some reason I thought it was 6:45 in the morning. I usually would leave for school at 7:15. I went down stairs and showered and got ready for the day. I went upstairs to leave and at that exact moment my dad was coming in the door. He asked me where I was going and I told him that I was going to school. He didn't think anything of it. I was involved in a few extracurricular activities in school (basketball, swim team, and I was in a band) so I think he thought that I was going to the school for one of these. I left the house and began walking towards the school. I got about halfway there when a friend called me. He asked if I had any plans for the night and wanted to see if I was around to hang out. That's when it hit me that it was night time and not morning. I felt like an ass.     
     
     
TL;DR I walked halfway to school at 7 at night thinking it was morning.   Something like this happened to my family.  I remember, vaguely, being woken up at 1:15 in the morning by my dad, getting me ready for elementary school.

I walked out, and everything is going normally, as far as the morning routine should.  Mom was making breakfast, dad was getting his coffee, and my sibling was getting their breakfast.

Cue me looking at the oven clock and asking them why we were up at 1 in the morning.

I think I walked back to sleep, and so did everyone else. but dang.  That was trippy.  Near as I can tell, someone misread the 1 as a 7, and no one else thought to question. well at least you can sneak out at 1AM and your family wont notice.  Don't worry, I once woke up at 1am on a school night - assuming my alarm had gone off - and got in the shower. It was only when I was in the shower and so a bit more awake that I realised I didn't remember hearing my alarm.


The next morning, my parents were confused as it why I took a shower at such a weird time. When I was in college, my roommate freshmen year stole the key of two friends of ours, made a copy, and returned it, all without their knowing. This led to a really fun series of pranks.

We would frequently sneak into the room in the middle of the night and reset all their clocks so they would go to class 2-3 hours early in the morning (this was in the days before cellphones, which would have made this a lot tougher to pull off). We would record tapes (this was also in the days of cassette tapes. Yes, I'm fucking old) that would be completely quiet for about three minutes then would be us screaming at the tops of our lungs, sneak in, put the tape in their stereo, put the volume on max, and leave the room.

Anyway, your post reminded me of those pranks. I don't know how many times we made them go to class early.... Here is a word cloud of all of the comments in this thread: http://i.imgur.com/sVwHXBU.png

If the mods feel the need to blacklist this bot, feel free to ban this account. Thank you!

*****
[^source ^code](https://github.com/Winneon/makeswordclouds) ^| [^contact ^developer](http://np.reddit.com/user/WinneonSword) Wasn't late to school; Browses reddit all day as a reward. I have done this for work before... 

My alarm clock was upside down for some reason. it was 1:58. I keep my room dark, so I didn't notice until I got to the kitchen for breakfast that I had made a mistake... Worst nap I ever took I did this years ago. It was in winter and I had to be at work for 6am. I woke up and for some reason thought I was late so cycled the 8 miles to work.

Got there at 2am.

I had to sit in the canteen as they wouldn't let me start my shift early and I was too stubborn to go home again. That sucks Sounds like you didn't FU by walking to school, your FU was not checking the time. I had a similar thing happen to me a couple years ago. In high school I played hockey and would regularly have practices at 6:00 am. I would normally leave the house at 5:30. One morning I woke up and noticed that the clock said :30 sense I didn't want to be late for practice I rushed to leave the house as fast as I could. I remember thinking that i was much more tired this time then I was normally and couldn't think of why. So I leave my house and start driving to practice. Fast forward 10 mins and I finally look at the time and it reads 12:50. At first I couldn't figure out why the time in my car would be wrong but after double checking my phone I realized that I had fucked up. So I decide I'm going to turn around and go home. At this time of night in my town all the red lights are set to blinking red lights so they are just like stop signs. So I pull up to the light and make a left turn onto a road that I can get home on, next thing I know I see blue lights come on behind me, turns out I didn't fully stop at the light. Now imagine having to explain to a cop how you left for your practice 5 hours before it actually was starting plus it was my first time getting pulled over so I was nervous enough already. Any ways the cop was really understanding and I was let off with a warning. After that I went home and got back in bed with out my parents even noticing I was gone. Now every time I leave the house I make sure to carefully check the time. I once tried to do that in my sleep. Couldn't properly put my shoes on. My mom laughed her ass off when I failed at opening the door with one shoe half on my foot in the middle of the night. My sister does something similar. During the summer my whole family's sleep scheduled changes and while me and my parents slowly start to sleep in more and more my sister gets up earlier. We'll wake up at 10 and she's eaten breakfast, gotten dressed and waiting in the living room for us to wake up. I'm just waiting for the day she gets up go to school and finds out it's a weekend. Now you know you can leave home late in the night and nobody will notice. Do whatever you want with that information Do you by chance live in madison? Plot twist; you're still asleep.  My friend once came to school during summer break.. he just woke up as normal, dress up, packed his things, went to school... then he realized his mistake. When he couldn't open the door.  I did this. Got up at quarter to five, good food out the freezer, and began making my lunch and breakfast. It took me far too long to realise the time.  early bird gets the....oh shit its 1AM nope, nope, nope, bed located, prepping body for shut down and................sleep mode activated  If you feel the same going to school after waking up at 12:45, something has to change about when the kids in this country start class... Wasn't it dark outside? The sunrise where I live during the winter is around 7:15-7:30 so if I was heading to school around 6:45 like OP it would still be dark. You'd likely see civil twilight, which is usually ~30 minutes before sunrise  (when Sun is 6 degrees below horizon)...but still relatively dark.  Of course in Summer peak, you'd see twilight around 4 a.m.... Civil twilight is still ~7 am in the winter and ~6 am in the summer here. But if OP was tired and groggy enough to think the 1 on his clock was a 7 I doubt he'd have thought that through completely

EDIT: I also live in a pretty big city so there's times where it'll be 3 am and the sky looks rather bright. Up here in Canada it is pretty dark until around 7-8ish in the winter. OP probably thought nothing of it.  Damnit OP, you made me burst out laughing in the middle of class.  I feel you man I remember I used to get up at 7 to get ready for school.  I woke up and thought it was 7:15 so I jumped up and started getting breakfast ready.  I put my dishes on the table before I looked at the clock on the stove and saw it was actually 1:15 so I crawled back into bed.  When I woke up at actual 7:00 I thought I had dreamt what happened earlier.  Once I saw the dishes laid out for me I was pretty confused for a few seconds. I'm reading this in my world history class lol. I've had situations where I'd take a nap after school and wake up and it's like 8:00 and I'm terrified i"m late for my bus, except it's 12 hours earlier.  I don't know why it happens, but I've had it happen a handful of times. A few weeks ago I napped when I got home, panicked and thought I didn't go to school. My parents hate me being absent so it was terrible. I did the same thing to a lesser extent.  I woke up in the middle of the night about 5 or 6 times in high school and took a shower to get ready.  I then got changed and went to eat breakfast.  It was around that time I would realize things werent right.  I'd get mad at my brain and go back to sleep.  Closest I've gotten is taking up at 3AM. 4 hours early as I intended to wake up at 7AM. Without looking at the time and instantly rushed into the shower. And just before I started making coffee I realized what time it was. So I went back to bed. 

Then I woke up and figured as I had already showered I'd just get straight to breakfast. With the extra time I decided to really enjoy my meal and not rush it. Unfortunately I'm a slow motherfucker so I noticed time had passed really quickly. So I'm heading out the door I realized my medium long hair had become a blond afro. Going to bed with moist hair wasn't my most thought-out plan. Especially when I forgot to actually look in the mirror. I've totally done this! I waited for the bus at 4:45am for a very long time, in the dark. It didn't even dawn on me tilli noticed there weren't many cars on the road.... You're not the only one who has had this. It happened to me twice.  

For me it was with a friend I was supposed to meet at 8 in the morning. (Yes we actually woke up bloody early just so we could play video games the whole day).  So I woke up, looked at my clock and it said 7:50ish. I quickly got out and send my friend a text message on the way. Even at this point I didn't even bother to look at the time on my phone.  
It was still dark, but seeing as it was winter it wasn't a big surprise. Plus the fact it was a weekend day, lots of snow on the road and bloody early it didn't strike me once that it wasn't 8am.  
So I'm a minute away from his house he calls me, he woke up from my text and read it. He didn't knew what I was meaning with 'just woke up, gonna be late'.  
Never did I even get a clue it was 2am instead of 8.  If I just took a look at my phone clock, or even my non-digital watch, then I wouldn't be walking in the cold snow at 2am.  
At least he didn't mind me waking him up. Drank some tea then I walked back home. Luckily it's just 10 minutes away.  Morning comes, and I still woke up late, but at least this time it actually was late.  

A second time was with school. It was a couple of days just after Daylight savings time was changed again to standard time.  But seeing as I was too lazy to change my clocks back to Standard time, I just thought to myself 'Ill deal with it and remind everything is off one hour'. sleepyhead me didn't realise that yet. So what you expect. Yes I woke up an hour early. Left for school only to discover that school wasn't going to start for another hour.  At least it gave me the time to get a nice filled croissant from the bakery couple of streets away. Fresh from the oven. Still hot. It made waking up an hour early not that bad.   For our back to school day it would always be on tuesday, and monday would be staff day. For three years (starting freshman year) I would always walk to school on monday to find out that school doesn't start until tuesday for students. I can still remember the walk of shame and the stares from passing cars... I remember I woke up around 8:30 on a Saturday morning one time thinking it was still the week. I ran in my sisters room and asked if she could take me to school. She started laughing at me and said it was the weekend. My family still laughs at me for this. Consider yourself lucky. I did this once except my brother told me his year was starting later in the day(the different years did this every now and again) so he told me to just walk to school by myself.....on a Saturday Haha my brother used to do something like that too! He would change my alarm clock to around the time school would start then wake me up and say I'm super late. When in reality it was 3 in the morning. You pulled [this stunt](http://youtu.be/HXfyelr9UC4?t=29m16s) on yourself?

(If it doesn't automatically, jump to 29:16.) One time my family was vacationing in SC for New Years. I was 10 at the time, and had a watch I thought was the shit and would always inform people what time it was. We were walking out of a restaurant when I saw it was midnight, OMG! "HAPPY NEW YEEEEEEAR!" I yelled. 
Random kid: "it's only 8..."
Me: "No it isn't you IDIOT." 
At that point my family ushered me out of the restaurant real quick, laughing. 
It was 8, those bastards.  Who doesn't check their phone for 30 minutes after getting up!? I checked my phone multiple times, but due to the font my phone uses, 1 looks extremely familiar to 7, especially when I'm half asleep and in a rush. Checks out. I've done this. If this happens to me, I'm just going to call the operator and tell her I love her. The year is currently 2015. If you dial 0 on your phone can you really reach an operator? Afraid to try it because AT&amp;T might send me a $50 bill for it. You can get $50 just for dialing 0?! I dialed 0 and suddenly my house got repossessed.   HA The joke's on them

The only cable company serving the house is Comcast. You still come out a net positive. You definitely won't come out net neutral. 

Edit: [Thanks for the gold!](http://dagobah.net/flash/virtual_orca.swf) Oh you! [Heeheeheh](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=k29sBJ0Mv5U) Had me literally groan loud enough my boss came to see what had happened. Cheers. Hey--hoooo! I dialed 0 and now I'm possessed. das spoopy These civil asset forfeiture laws are crazy!  I dialed 0 and they told me to hang up... At least I still have my house. 000 is the Australian version of 911.

I once was fined 300$ for a false alarm with the fire dept. So, it's more like $100 for each 0. UK's new number: 0118 999 881 999 119 725...3 Oh FOUR! I mean FIVE! I mean FIRE! If the soldering iron is turned off what do you do Moss? I turn it on, and just walk away. Help! Fire!

*sends email about fire* Dear sir slash madam, fire exclamation mark fire exclamation mark fire exclamation mark Looking forward to hearing from you comma Maurice Moss We got your email! I'll just put that over here with the rest of the fire Shut up, Moss... I.T. Crowd fans, UNITE! Did you see that ludicrous display last noight? What was Wenger thinking sending Wallcott on that early? The thing with Arsenal is they always try to walk it in. What's the story behind that, out of curiosity? Bored in boarding school bouncing a rubber ball in one of the rooms at night. 

* Floor-&gt;wall-&gt;roof-&gt;floor-&gt;catch.. 
* Floor-&gt;wall-&gt;roof-&gt;floor-&gt;catch..
* Floor-&gt;wall-&gt;smoke detector-&gt;floor-&gt;catch..

"Ahh shit a firedrill" 

I didn't connect the dots until about an hour later after the fire trucks arrived and ~~everyone (&lt;3 The wire)~~ the building was evacuated. After the firemen went room to room and discovered the problem was in the smoke detector in my room.  This could have been your very own TIFU thread Yeah if you're lucky give it a shot and tell us what transpires. Or get ported out of the Matrix. where is Neo when we need him He's off doing his superman thing again. I wish I had a superman thing close your eyes and open your mouth, I'll make you feel superhuman.
 AT&amp;T sending out $50 bills?!!? Right?  No way AT&amp;T gets out of bed for less than $75.  Is expect at least $95. 611 calls your mobile operator.  It shouldn't count towards your minutes either, if you're still somehow not on an unlimited call plan. Worked selling cellphones, can confirm (at least for the states) 0, or 555 gets an operator, but there is a charge. Not sure, but I think it's $5. Just call yourself and leave yourself a message telling yourself you love you. Just dial a random number.  Why dial anything just yell into your phone. ..and have that awkward situation where someone ACTUALLY ends up calling in the middle of your fake call. Not when nobody ever calls you :)

....


...

:( Dare you to post your number Bahaha! I second that motion! Then post pics of the number of missed calls you get in 1 hour! It'd still be zero B-but just ringing would cost you more thab your house, i live in south america Because  every one of them would be answered. Pretend that you got disconnected and they called back without you noticing  lol, who leaves their ringer on? Or voice-mail Or just tell your mom once in a while that you love her, so she doesn't get a heart attack if you do... 

Or just pay for the bloody food! Pay for food? Are you mad?! Call the McDonald's you just walked into. I'd like everyone who reads this to save their local McDonald's on speed dial. I want this to happen at least once. 


I don't eat McD's, so I can't. I also "won" this promotion.

I merely had to high-five the cashier. High five on his crotch..  That's a low 5. Otphj Low 3 depending on size  Medium 10 if its a black dude. OVER THE PANTS HAND JOB! I WORKED IT OUT! Oh yeah, you're right. I was sitting here thinking, on the penis hand job? But i guess that's a little redundant. Damn corporate types and their acronyms. &gt;TL;DR Went to McHeartAttack to get free food and nearly gave mother a heartattack

FTFY

Edit: My work here is done. A free heart attack. &gt; free heart attack

http://i.imgur.com/S5UFRDt.jpg Happy cake day! /\:D/




Edit: what the fuck happened down below.. No one ever wishes me a happy cake day...

Holy nipples, people actually thanked me a happy cake day instead of downvotes! Thanks everyone! Happy late/early/on-time cakeday, I'm on mobile so Im not sure.

Edit: thanks for the gold! My gold-cherry has been popped now! I went to guild everyone who wished me a happy cake day the first hour.

[Not 30 minutes](http://puu.sh/fsupH/de192a9a9d.png) after I do so and I receive an additional 150% .

Not sure if me being cynical, or if it was the gilding advertising. The shameless greed of some people...
Happy Cakeday!!

Edit: My first gold ever!  u/Suraru, you totally rock, thank you!  I hope you have the best ~~day~~ month ever! Well im really not sure about this one but... happy cakeday ? [....Fine](http://i.imgur.com/sCoIzQk.gif) Does it work for everyone? Happy cakeday.

Edit: Ooooh very nice. Happy cakeday, even I if am late. happy cakeday!                                                                     ^^^my ^^^name ^^^is ^^^also ^^^karl Hi Also Karl, I'm dad. Happy cake day! I didn't get you anything, so have an upvote. Happy cake day brother!!! Oh please, you're clearly exaggerating.

Edit: Thank you /u/suraru. You popped my gold cherry, and made me feel special for a day :D Oh please, you're Ocora-ing &gt; TL;DR Went to Mc~~Heart~~Attack to get free food and ~~nearly~~ gave mother ~~a heartattack~~ a free asthma attack

FTFY Why am i always figuring out what letter combos mean. It should count as knowing a second language. FU. Ok im now bilingual.  Does that mean you figured out what they meant? Cuz I need help :( Which one is giving you trouble?  TLDR is for "Too Long Didn't Read" and FTFY is for "Fixed That For You." FTFY has been confusing me for the longest time! Could've googled it but I knew eventually a redditor would explain!
Thanks TIL is Today I Learned in case u didn't know In the nicest possible way I really can't wait for all the horrible and cringey stories that come from this campaign!

I can't even begin to think what your mum was feeling when she picked up the phone, but I'm sure there's a lot worse that's going to happen. When I saw the Super Bowl commercial, I turned to my SO and said "So, if that happens to me, the cashier is going to feel like such a dick." 

Because my mom is dead.  chalk this up for number one! That sounds like an awkward competition for orphans. I think your mom had a point, you getting a bunch of McDonald's food is practically killing yourself. My friend's grandma gave him a gift card to McDonalds with almost $200 on it for Christmas one year while I was in high school. Every day at lunch, I'd provide the bud, he'd get the McDonalds, we'd get stoned and have chicken nuggets and milkshakes. It was awesome, I gained 10 lbs during the time he had that gift card.  Though I agree with you it was after work and working as a mechanic is hard enough work but putting in 6 hours at the shop after college classes makes you pretty fricken hungry. Yup.  Had a summer where I worked on my feet all day.  I had McDonald's for lunch every day and still dropped 20 pounds of fat that first month.  If you're getting enough exercise, you can pretty much eat whatever you want. Only if you eat it a lot. I bet they don't show *that* reaction on the commercials I hope they secretly video tape all the people that win :) I said this exact scenario out loud during the superbowl something like 

"This is weird as fuck, people are going to think their family members are about to off themselves" Or maybe your family needs to say I love you a little more often. I kinda want this to happen to me so that I can say with a straight  face: "**I can't call my mom. She's dead. She killed herself.**"

And since that's actually true, even if my wife's with me, she wouldn't be able to deny it.  It says to call a family member, though. "My whole family committed suicide and I'm the only one left." I think the cashier would get so uncomfortable that they would just give you the free food. Aw man I'm so sorry. I hope you are doing okay. I was too young to remember it happening. (But make no mistake, that decision of hers is still having ramifications over 30 years later.)

Anyway, I'm not above sometimes making morbid jokes about bad things that have happened.  Sometimes thats what you have to do to keep going. My family has gone through some serious shit and sometimes to keep sane we make jokes, throws people off though. I live with my best friend, my sister, and my cousin in my friend's dead grandmother's house (yes, I know it's kinda confusing).  Her grandfather died in the house almost 10 years ago, and her grandmother had put the ashes somewhere in the basement, then proceeded to get a bad case of dementia.  The joke for the past few years has been that grandpa was lost in the house.  He was finally discovered under a pair of her grandmother's shoes in the basement.  When I was told where his ashed were found, I said "even in death, she's still walking all over him."  My friend about died laughing because her grandmother was a very forward person who liked things her way, and when they built the house in 1999, her grandmother made all the decisions.  Needless to say, we're working on repainting and getting rid of the flowery grandma stuff all over the place.

Where I was going with that whole story was that most of the time it's far better to use jokes to get through hard times.  When my friend's grandfather died, before the paramedics arrived (he died naturally), they dressed him up in a Hawaiian shirt that he absolutely despised, just because they knew it would have made him laugh. I feel you haha, my mother died when I was 11 and sometimes whenever the word 'mum' is mentioned' I go into a pretend 1000-yard Vietnam war state... 
Really annoys me when people with no sense of loss try to get on their high horse "Hey man, I don't think you should say things like that...", fuck off you have no idea I'll say whatever I want to ease my mind. I definitely do the same, except for me it was my dad and usually I'm the only one that laughs. 

Also the consequences of his decision still affect me, glad to know I'm not the only one that got messed up by something I didn't understand at the time, didn't know that was common. That's, usually, the basis of all our neuroses. Things happen to us before we're able to understand or deal with the emotional consequences.  Somebody buy this guy a Happy Meal... They don't specify your mom, according to OP. Just 'a family member' [deleted] This ad specifically shows the employee telling a guy to "dial up your mom and tell her you love her."

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=iq2Sm2XGv_s#t=10 Yeah it sounds better in the commercial that way, more loving. Do you really think McDonalds isn't aware of the 1000's jokes about saying my mom is dead to the employee? True, but they are aware of people having lost loved ones, so when they actually put it into practice, they say something more sensitive.  She said call your family member. And at this point you would be just an asshole, but sorry for your loss.  Call her next of kin.  So he should call himself? I do love me...  Aw, sorry to hear that friend. I'm in the same situation, I almost shed a tear every time I need to fill out a form and it asks for mother's name :'( paied If McDonalds wants people to have better family relationship, it should start by paying living wages to its employee so that they can afford to have a family.  McDonald's in Australia pays fairly decently. how much we talkin here? A friend is 17, works part time (so gets paid holidays and sick leave) and gets $12.89 an hour. Casual employee for his age is like $15.65. If you're 21+, minimum is like $25.34 for a casual/ $20.27 for part time or full time. So that's $10.08, $12.23, $19.81, and $15.85 in USD, respectively. Almost as much as I make as a 911 dispatcher. Neat.  C'mon bro, do you really think your job is more important than the fry cook at McDongers? Man's gotta eat. I mean, they probably respond to McD's induced heart-attacks... Unless you live in an expensive area, the cost of living is a fair bit higher since they are on an island. Holy shit. I need to move to Australia. (and I can, but I don't like the heat.. Besides, your spiders aren't as edible as ours.)  And prepared to be destroyed by our real estate prices !! I think I could handle that alright. I'm just across the ditch ;)  If you're worried about heat, then Tasmania's probably the best. Especially if you really love your family! Canberra has pretty nice weather and apparently the highest living quality of any city in the world. It's beautiful if you don't mind "boring" and can afford to live here  Isn't cost of living relatively high in Australia? 

Found a link:

http://www.numbeo.com/cost-of-living/compare_countries_result.jsp?country1=United+States&amp;country2=Australia

 [deleted] Where I'm at highschool and college students start around $10-$12 an hour depending on where in the store they are working. Mckey'D's?


Is that actually what you call McDonald's? In Australia we call it maccas. I've heard it as Mickey Ds here (Canada), but usually it's McDicks ;) *Burgers are better at Hungry Jack's..* Good ol' Burger Jack's Well, "mick" donalds becomes "Mickey" (also a famous, associable name for little kids/lowest common denominators) D's. I don't really understand how you can get "maccas" from McDonalds, even considering the fact that the actual name origins spelling is Mac-Donalds. Maccas just sounds like a middle-eastern vegetable-based pastry.  I just called

to get

free burgers  I also won this "competition" but had a plan.

I told the woman 
"I have no family , I am orphan" 

(In some accent im not even sure what it was supposed to be , just generic foreign).. I continued... 

"I tell you I love you for free food , but is not worth much as I do not know what love is".

I got my free food :). This is pretty much exactly the sort of awkward forced situation I immediately pictured when I saw this promotion.

"Call a family member and tell them you love them!"

*"I have no family :("*

"Well, then call a friend!"

*"No friends either :("*

"Uhh... here, have a free meal." I guess that'll be $7.87 with tax... Omg why would the manager laugh about that? So rude but hey congrats on the free food! Honestly I totally understand the lauhter, it is ment to be a quick and easy thing but anything out of the ordinary is just different. 
It was ment to be a quick call but it taking so long just makes it more interesting. HAHAHAHA! YOU HAVE SUICIDAL TENDENCIES AND YOUR MOM THINKS YOU'RE GONNA BE DEAD! THANKS FOR THE LAUGH! HERE HAVE SOME COUPONS!!

*shoves fistful of coupons in your face* pretty sure the manager just didn't know about this guy's private life and probably assumed the mother was just overprotective. I'm not suicidal at all but my mother would do the same thing, and it'd be funny. Nope no knowledge at all, and yea probably a little bit of overprotectiveness going on but was still kinda funny none the less. &gt; SUICIDAL TENDENCIES

OP ordered a Pepsi, but they wouldn't give him one. All he wanted was a Pepsi. Just one Pepsi.

Edit: BUT THEY WOULDN'T GIVE HIM ONE JUST A PEPSI Couldnt most of the freakout have been avoided if you had just told her about the McDonalds promotion? I too think people are overreacting a bit here on the actions of that manager. It is quite possible to see the seriousness of a situation, empathize with the people inside a situation and still find amusement in it.

 I think the manager just has a dark sense of humor and op prolly gave off the impression that he as well found humor in it. [This story seems quite similar to this comment OP](http://www.reddit.com/r/futurama/comments/2ujxf2/mrw_im_selected_by_mcdonalds_to_pay_with_lovin/co9airn) Imagine when suddenly a random seemingly normal man/woman though a bit tired but still looks happy, comes in with two kids and asks for two sets of happy meals. He/she didn't order anything for him/herself and brushed it off saying something about dieting and this is just a treat for the kids..

... and then the cashier tells them, your grand total is a family hug and a kiss from each kid for the dad/mom. 

Kids beams up and becomes excited and starts jumping up and down, excited to be the center of attention as the rest of the cashier staffs starts smiling and laughing good naturedly as they  turn their attention to the lucky family....

.. but at the center of it all, the dad/mom becomes strangely quiet though he/she still tries to follow the payment instructions and crouches down for the family hugs and so that the kids can kiss their cheeks. The lower he/she goes the quieter he/she gets. The kids gave him/her a warm family hug, still excited as kids do and as the kids kiss him/her, he/she starts sobbing quietly..

He/She wasn't crying loudly, in fact you can see that he/she is trying desperately to hold it in and not make a scene but failing as the pure emotion escaped with each soft gasps.

The staffs and those in the immediate vicinity understandably becomes confounded and no one was able to understand what is going on. One of the employees quickly went to the back to fetch the manager. As the manager approaches, the cute four year old daughter, younger of the two siblings smiles at her dad/mom and strokes his/her head and says;

"it's okay daddy/mommy, this time me and Andrew/Kathy can pay for the meal with our kisses, and you can save the money so we can go to mcdonalds again tomorrow. That way we can have two celebrations!"

You see, the single father/mother had just received his/her first paycheck from their job after being unemployed for nearly a month. After paying the bills and and groceries, there was just enough leftover to pay for two happy meals and decided to give his/her small family of three a small treat. A treat of happy meal for each kids, and for him/herself the treat was to see the faces of two happy kids smiling and eating nice foods for a change.

That was what the father/mother feels coming in the door of that restaurant, privately as thrilled and excited as the kids and actually looking forward to a dinner of ketchup and the kid's leftovers.

So thrilled and excited he/she was that when the lovely cashier told him/her the meal was paid for, he/she couldn't help it but became overwhelm with a cocktail emotions, of happy and relief, but mostly glad and thankful. Thankful to god? to the kind mcdonald employees? to luck? To be honest he/she don't know, but nonetheless thankful was what he/she felt. And then the next time the kids want to go to McDonalds, mommy has to explain that they can't afford it even though they have plenty of hugs and kisses. It would've been more effective if you just chose one gender. Upvoted for actually happening today "McDonald's: so bad for you it can give your mother a heart attack from 1000 miles away." This whole promotion is fucking stupid So you didn't just explain to her that you were calling for the McDonald's promotion? 

ooooookkkkk. I explained that it was for McDonalds promotion but due to my history she thought it was just something to get her to not worry. In my 20/20 hindsight I should have started it out with "So I'm at McDonalds and to get my meal free I have to say I love you" A similar thing happened to me - history of depression, decided to make my bed one morning (unusual act for me at the time) before "leaving for school" - which I then skipped. Of course, I told dear mom that I loved her before leaving that day, which was also a little out of the norm.

When I failed to show up for classes, she called the cops, sent out patrol cars (she was a cop herself at the time) to my brand-spanking-new boyfriend's house (went over VERY well), sent officers to the school to question my friends, so on and so forth.

All the while, I'm oblivious, driving around the county in my old Buick Regal, looking for an awesome spot to sunbathe on an unseasonably warm spring day. Because teenagers.

It was one of the last days of my senior year; I never had the opportunity to demonstrate that I wasn't a suicidal fruitbat to most of the school. 

I got no free cheeseburgers from my fiasco, only a healthy dose of HOW COULD YOU DO THIS TO ME?????!1?1!!!

"I'm sorry for making my bed, I'll never do it again."

And, to that end, I've pretty much held up my end of the bargain.

Good times! Cool story, needed more McDonald's. Thanks for reminding me not to go to McDonalds for a while. My socially awkward self doesn't need the drama over an egg mcmuffin if they told me to call my mom i would ask them if they have a Ouija board i could use since she died two years ago. Man, I fucking love Moms, I'm gonna call my Mom. Shit like this is what they planned for with this campaign. Not the almost killing your mother, but an emotional connection that you would associate with them and hopefully also share with other people. The near heart attacks are worth the price of emotionally tying people to the restaurant. This is like that scene in a movie that can be fixed by the main character just effing talking. Why didn't you say "mom! Mom! Don't worry it's a promotion McDonald's is doing where they give your meal to you for free if you call a family member to tell them you love them."

That takes like 1 minute max Yup. Being suicidal takes away that whole privilege of just telling someone you love them. Sometimes I think of something cute my husband has done and I'll just text him "Just want you to know - I love you." BAM. Texts and phone calls. Mom driving to my apartment. Ugh. Well I guess you could say she wasn't "puts in glasses* lovin it TIL American McDonald's sell sandwiches. Hamburgers are technically sandwiches. They sell a royal with cheese in Paris. U know why? I mean they sell wraps and stuff too but the Big Mac, Fish-o-Filet, and the McChicken are pretty popular... If I start the conversation with "I love you," my mom assumes I've found a random bottle of whiskey.  Once posted a pic on Facebook and said I was tired, mother called me up at 4 am making sure I wasn't about to end it all. [Costco](http://i.imgur.com/mZvjSTq.gif) does it better. Well done, I snorted a margionaly greater amount of air from my nose repeditly until I closed the tab. Sometimes I also fucked up when calling colleagues after having my GF or a family member on the phone a few minutes ago.

So before hanging up I would say "Bisous" and hang up. Translated : I would say "Kisses" to my colleague before hanging up.

Those weren't so much TIFU, but mostly MOIFU (mostly often I fucked up)
 First off, sucks how she got an asthma attack.  
  
Second, it's kind of really sweet how much your Mom worried about you. Some parents just don't take suicidal thoughts, depression, and other mental stuff seriously, even after it's too late. Does anyone know when this promotion ends so I can go back to McD? I think it's valentine's day. I was thinking the same thing. I'm also glad I'm not a cashier. At least you know she loves you.. I would not want to call my cruel and abusive mother no matter how much free food I was being offered. *shudders* You've got a great mom!  There needs to be a Subreddit for McDonalds I love you promotions. This is the second TIFU related to that I've read this week, and they're all hilarious Solution: Call your mother everyday and tell her you love her. She'll be desensitized (to the fear aspect), and you won't regret not having done so one day. Mcdonalds ad. Had a similar situation. I had to drive four hours on the interstate in a snowstorm for the first time. So I tested my mom "I love you." She called me freaking out thinking I was about to commit suicide. This explains a lot about my family. This is the least likely way McDonald's has ever almost given someone a heart attack.  I hear in france they call big macs the royale Eating McDonalds is still committing suicide. It just takes a little longer. I feel for your mom haha. J.K Simmons will be very happy to hear What about people that have no partner and no living family?

I suppose we are all too familiar with getting nothing...

Free food for those that are loved...

:-( Call a friend, fake a call, give a high five because why not! the first thing when i thought when i saw the commercial was how funny it would be to deadpan "My mother's in jail" or "Everyone in my family is an asshole." I'm a terrible person. Someone please do this. My mom died recently, and she was pretty much an asshat anyway, lots of folks I know had shitty moms.  Glad to have a(nother) good reason never to go to mcDs again though.

 To be fair, you WERE eating McDonalds, your mother wasn't that far off. :-P lel True enough but working as a mechanic and the fact that I rarely visit there makes it not as bad for me. Now people who visit McDucks every day yea its bad for you. /r/HailCorporate  I would just like to point out that Shake Shack never made me do this pointless bullshit. And they make a great hamburger. Possibly the best in America, and therefore the world. Shake Shack is most certainly a fine hamburger. What is love? Baby don't hurt me. Don't hurt me, no more. Now I've got an earworm. Does anybody love anybody anyway? A second hand emotion. When I saw the commercial for this shit and how they were asking for people to tell someone that they love them I wondered how many people would think a suicide is about to happen. Like, no one just calls to say you love them unless you are going to do something drastic. Stevie Wonder just calls to say 'I love you.'

Like, all the time. It actually comes off a little clingy. But he does mean it from the bottom of his heart. Case and point right here. Did all of that foreplay help the operation go smoothly afterward? OP:  So doc, where do I put my pants?

Doc:  Right over there next to mine.


Edit: There be gold in them hills! Thanks kind stranger! "Yes, my pants, that are next to the chains" ...next to the swing ...next to the gimp ...no, the other gimp  But he's sleeping? ...in the dungeon ...that was newly renovated .....on the left  Next to the van DOWN BY THE RIVER! "Can you grab the wine while you're at it?" Doc:  It's completely normal to get an erection during this procedure. 

OP:  .....but I'm not hard.

Doc:  I wasn't talking about you.



Edit: a word. *Doc: Turn around, I need to do a little digital exam.

*OP: Why are both of your hands on my shoulders? This guy.

EDIT: Uh wow, thanks for the gold! well he did visit Dr Diddle He wears two watches because it is always time to diddle You know it's diddle time when you look at the clock and the big hand touches your balls. Thank you so much for that Gotta love Mr Diddlez And even if they break, its still time to diddle 4 times a day. This reminds me that while I was at the doctors once I saw a sign on the wall for a urologist named Dr. Wiener. Dr Diddle will fiddle with your little piddle... In a tiddle. Gold for saying "this guy"?

EDIT: HAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHA WOW I know, I was confused too. It was so ingenious, even YOU don't understand it.

Edit: Thank you random gold-giving stranger!  maybe he missed; no one gets gold for no reason on reddit. I know I did.

EDIT: Well, looks like it happened again. I'm so confused. What's going on?

EDIT: Reddit, you are truly a cold mistress.

EDIT EDIT: I'm still not sure what's going on but gold! Thank you Internet Stranger! Someone is going to wake from their ambien-induced haze wondering what they bought this time... TIL saying "This Guy" earns you gold

Edit: Thanks kind stranger! This guy.

Edit: Yes! Nice try dude. This guy. Nice try dude. WHAT IS GOING ON? That's the first time I've seen a gold chain this undeserved
EDIT: This is my most up-voted comment, and my first gold. Reddit is weird. This informal, male human.

EDIT: Yay! Gold! Thank you so much, first time ever! :D Not a chance buddy 

Edit: Holy shit actually?  Only once per day.

Edit:  Thanks anon friend! It's so tempting to drop a gold here, just to make it seem like "this guy" is somehow tearing a rift in the gilding universe.

Edit - Holy rift in the continuum, that escalated quickly. PS, thanks for the gold! Shiiiiiiiiny! Pst, This guy. If you use quotes it must be lowercase, it doesn't work otherwise. This pie

EDIT: Woop! Can we take a moment to appreciate the sheer beauty of the OP's username? Mos deferens! You will never find a more wretched hive of cum and villainy. Omfg didn't notice.  Absolutely amazing.  Pls explain It's a word play on the [vas deferens](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Vas_deferens). Its a triple play on that, vasectomy, and suffer. Vas Deferens is a part of male anatomy. You fucking Klondike Bar.  This thread has been linked to from elsewhere on reddit.


 - [/r/nocontext] [Vas Deferens is a part of male anatomy. You fucking Klondike Bar.](http://np.reddit.com/r/nocontext/comments/2v1xsv/vas_deferens_is_a_part_of_male_anatomy_you/)


*^If ^you ^follow ^any ^of ^the ^above ^links, ^respect ^the ^rules ^of ^reddit ^and ^don't ^vote ^or ^comment. ^Questions? ^Abuse? [^Message ^me ^here.](http://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2Fmeta_bot_mailbag)*

 So after a vasectomy, one is supposed to "expel" 15 to 20 times to make sure no live dudes or dudettes are still in there. I'm friends with a guy that convinced his wife (who knew of the rule) that it HAD to be done orally...... OMG this is the best advice ever....I'm officially retracting my TIFU Damn well better wait a week before you do. Trust me. Trust him and me both.  Hoping username and comment are unrelated. I trust you...not so sure about the other guy. [deleted] Blood's a distinct possibility. Blood.  And discomfort. He might FU again "Honey! It says here that you can refill this prescription for my oral medication!" for every door that closes, 15 to 20 open. Wait.. Seriously.  If any bit gets pass the ligation.  You have no idea of what pain is.. Think the procedure was bad... Semen in your sack is brutal The vas deferens is cut/burned, not tied. Depending on the Dr, the vas deferens is cut, then cauterised (burned), then ends are stitched over (which some people may refer to as tying) or clipped with what looks like little staples.  Depends on which end they were dealing with.  My experience was years ago as a surgical nurse assisting with what felt like hundreds, but was probably only 15 every Friday for far too long.  Extra special day when the Dr found a third vas deferens on one guy.  He always checked for extras because he had a case early in his career. These days apparently sometimes they don't clip or tie the end. My doctor told me the same thing.  I called him that afternoon and said, "OK, now what?"
   Throw some water on your dick and call the fire department.

---

^^^Feeling ^^^generous? ^^^Donate ^^^to ^^^a ^^^charity ^^^of ^^^your ^^^choice ^^^every ^^^time ^^^you ^^^open ^^^a ^^^new ^^^tab. ^^^It's ^^[free!](http://tabforacause.org/?r=11125212) &gt; Feeling generous? Donate to a charity of your choice every time you open a new tab.

I would like to not go broke thanks though. It's actually free! You simply install the extension, and you get a new, customizable new tab screen. Every time you open a new tab, two non-invasive ads will show up in the corner. The revenue from those ads are then donated to charities of your choice. [Feel free to read through their FAQ real quick.](http://tabforacause.org/?r=11125212) It better explains exactly how they work, and where the money goes. That's actually pretty cool then! I was thinking like every time you open a tab it withdraws 2 pennies but that seems pretty cool!

Edit: Just downloaded it! Now I can feel good about myself by doing the internet! Tried with my wife who is also a nurse... she called bull s*#$.  I was very sad. Crazy girl. I would have been all over 15-20 blow jobs.  More like Susan "BJ" Anthony... I'm stealing this and using it forever.  &gt;using it forever

aka using it never It will make a decent shelf decoration at the very least. You're just asking for awkward PMs.

 I can handle it. I'll ignore them like usual, or just reply with gross dick pics. You know you can just do that, right?

I volunteer myself as tribute!  That was part of the package deal when my wife and I agreed on it as our permanent contraceptive method.  I had to let some dude cut open my scrote and go in there with a soldering iron.  It's only fair that I got to have as much beer and head as I wanted while recovering. lol package deal The necessity of dishonest manipulation in the reception of disconnected sexual gratification from the supposed love of your life. Sign me up. Been there, done that. Even with novocaine, I remember feeling like he had pliers squeezing my balls... still MUCH less than wife would have had to endure. Suggest you sit on a bag of frozen peas for the weekend, have her fetch you beers, it's all good.   strange, mine was simply uncomfortable.  No real pain at all. they gave you the good stuff, huh I just had a local numbing agent on my balls. Barely felt a thing.  That, minus the surgery, sounds like something I wouldn't mind trying. [So you can do something this?](http://youtu.be/iJiL1aGpvfo?t=15m10s) OP's mom? Just a local shot.  that was the uncomfortable part, getting the shot.

my guy was good! You are a good man.  I have also been there. After the peas are defrosted, have your wife cook them for dinner. No need to waste them. And there is great satisfaction in being at the dinner table with your family thinking "I did this for you people, now I'm going to watch you eat my scrotum peas." /r/nocontext I think a better sub would be /r/evenwithcontext  *gags* Chances are your dad was snipped, and you ate his scrotum peas and don't even know it. 

YOU ATE SCROTUM PEAS Taint peas are the best peas Isn't the alcohol bad for the healing process? Probably, but the man just took a knife to the scrotum. I'd say he deserves as much beer as he likes. Whiskey man, whiskey.  We're talking life changing incident here.  He's still pondering the situation.  A fifth or two of some high-test or a few of the marijuanas might help things out considerably.

Good on you OP getting nuttered.  (My brother spelled it last week that way when his dog had the same thing done.  I like it.) Not sure if you're joking, but neutering is not the same as a vasectomy.  When we were kids, my brother and I asked my dad if he would have other kids if he got remarried.  He said he couldn't anymore, and I said, "Why, did you get neutered?"  Very innocent question from an 11 year old.  He explained the difference.

For those ignorant, I believe a vasectomy just severs the *vas deferens* (I think they're the tubes that carry sperm--at work, won't google it).  Neutering is a removal of the testicles. So...my cats had vasectomies? Because their balls are very much intact... Was his dog castrated or did he get a vasectomy? I'd love to see a vet that'd do a vasectomy instead of castration around here. :/ wtf?  None of that explains my vasectomy.  No burning, no freezing.
Did you go to some sadomacochist who moonlights as a urologist?

Mine was easy.  The only squeamish part was the needle for the pain killer, but needles has never bothered me.   Swabbed the crease inside my thigh with a pain killer, stuck a needle, 5 mins later numb.  Little slice, little snip, no burning or cauterizing, 1 stitch and done.  Swabbed the other side, needle in, rinse and repeat.  Was out of there in 30-40 mins.  Strange they cauterized..  i've read they normally like to leave the testicle end of the vas defrons open and loose in the scrotum since the body will just naturally reabsorb any sperm that seeps out and requires less trauma, i.e., no burning.

In the future, as soon as you feel any pain, mention it immediately.  Don't try to 'man' up to pain as you can involuntarily jerk and impale yourself be it on a dentist pick or a doc fiddling with a blade near your junk. This. No burning for mine either. Slice, snip, clip, repeat. Got mine done too. I was being a baby in the office during the surgery and looking back at it now it seriously wasn't a big deal. After mine was done, I drove *myself* home. I biked home.  I [rode my balls home](http://i.ytimg.com/vi/07DGbn_8DT0/maxresdefault.jpg). Even the toughest man will be a baby when there's another holding a sharp object near his family jewels.  they're suppose to cauterize the ends to ensure they don't reconnect Glad you mentioned the dental thing. Needles don't bother me much either, but if that numbing needle didn't work, I'm gonna say something.

Can't even imagine what it's like with your balls. The conversation goes something like this: 

Doctor stabs your balls with a needle.
Doctor: 'Does this hurt?'
PM_Me_Randomly: _ Pretty much same with me.

Only my doctor was having trouble grasping my vas, and I joked: "slippery little buggers, aren't they?"  

He was pissed.

Recovery?  I felt like I had won the rodeo championship of the universe. why would your doctor be pissed you made that joke? It's a perfectly legit way of breaking the tension, and it wasn't even distasteful. That is how mine went with the numbing exactly. I only felt the TINIEST pinch when the needle went in after the numbing swab. Then during the second tube/ball, I felt a small pain, like 1/15th the pain of knocking your nuts on something. I told him, shot me up again and was good in seconds.

Where it went different though was they snipped, burned and then clamped with titanium clips.

No babies for me :D There's a vas deferns between good and bad doctors. a pun thread nobody went with? Somebody dropped the balls. Cut 'em some slack. Well now the balls in their court  The benefits of getting this procedure are fucking inconceivable. &gt; [inconceivable](https://pbs.twimg.com/media/B83Yv1qCMAERGOJ.jpg:large) Ah, the penis mightier than the sword. His schedule's been nuts lately. should we snip this thread short then? look on the bright side Dr. Diddle is slowly contracting emphysema from inhaling ball smoke all day  So, do his air sacs become ball sacs? TIFU by reading all the replies. Yeah, it's really not that bad.

Source:  Vas grew back after the first one, had a second vasectomy.

The smell definitely is unforgettable though. LOL, I can't help but picturing some old grizzled dude on his 40th vasectomy muttering 'amateur'.

Kuddos to you for going through it again though.  I might have to be drunk next time. *spits out blood onto doctor*

"Is that all you got, you pansy?" &gt; Source: Vas grew back after the first one, had a second vasectomy.

That's a fucking thing?  Seriously?  Do you have to get tests done or some shit to determine if they are blanks or full loads?  Damn. Got snipped, it's not a big deal.

It's a risk, but my doc has done many thousands of procedures and never had one rejoin. He heavily implied it's less 'grew back' and more doc fucked up. Same thing my doc said. The vas is one of THE most persistent fuckers around. 

After a vasectomy and two clean catches that show 0 viable sperm, you should STILL get semen analyses for sperm presence once per year. If there is the slightest possibility it can find a way to reattach, it will. I am not a doctor but I work for a urologist. He says he leaves a one inch gap between the severed vas and where it used to connect, and both ends must be thoroughly cauterized. And still there is a chance of re growth!

Also, for the love of God pay the extra money for general anesthesia. You will feel the snip of your vas being cut. It may not be painful, but it will be jarring, and even as a female, i can only imagine the trauma. Be good to yourself!! Isn't general anesthesia a little too much? Sounds like local plus a little sedation would do, like you would do an endoscopy: high enough not to care. General seems like way too much.

Isn't there some other drug they can give you where you don't really remember much? Yes. Dr. can prescribe a pre-med to take before you arrive for the procedure. Someone else will have to drive you home. Plus, general anesthesia is fucking expensive. These are my balls that we're talking about...I'll pay the extra fee. Twilight anesthesia! I got it for my wisdom teeth removal. It's really weird, you're "awake" enough to follow directions but you don't remember anything afterwards. I had a "dream" about putting out my hand for the my teeth (I wanted to keep them) and then I woke up like out a deep sleep and the teeth were already in my hand. Craaazy stuff. There's like a 1% chance.  Mine was performed in a small doctors office. After the nurse numbed the area and the Dr. finally came in the room, he had another older man with him. Hmm...WTF I'm thinking. The Dr. then proceeds to go over the procedure verbally step by step to this man who was observing. Why? So he could go to some third world country and perform his own vasectomies.

It's bad enough wondering what's going on, but 10x worse hearing it explained in detail. To top it off, they had not numbed the area properly, and because of the pain the Dr. requests the nurse to give me another shot of novacaine.

But when he walks out of the room to find her he leaves the door open, and I'm laying on the table facing the door in all my glory while patients and nurses are wandering the hallways.

Sooo...it could have been worse.
 Sounds like a lawsuit right there.  No, a lawsuit is when they accidentally amputate the wrong leg. That would also suck. Urologist here. Always good to hear the other side of things. Our vasectomies usually take 10-15 minutes from prep to end. The terror stories in this thread do happen but are exceedingly rare. The #1 issue I've seen is psychological as I think is OP's case. We've had patients vasovagal and lose sphincter control from the lidocaine injection to others demanding general anesthesia for the case. To each his own.

Many of the old school urologists believe cauterizing the lumen of the vas prevents recanalization and subsequent fertility. Don't worry-- it doesn't mean we lit your balls on fire.

Sorry that you didn't have everything explained to you properly preoperatively. Just know that the worst is over and it is an investment for the future.

Although the debate about supposed increased risk for high-grade prostate cancer after vasectomy is quite fascinating. But that's a story for another time. I did my own vasectomy. Not in the traditional way, I rerouted my balls so when they produce sperm, it just dribbles out my pant leg. Also, when I ejaculate, a little feather comes out of the tip of my penis, waves back and forth a few times and then retreats back into my shaft. 
10/10 would recommend.  If you rigged it with a bird instead of a feather, and the bird came out once an hour, you'd have yourself a cuckoo cock.  No, a flag that says **BANG!** like a gun in a cartoon would be perfect. Someone's been going to the /u/_vargas_ school of commenting. Didn't mention poop, though. That's kind of my ~~trademark~~ skidmark. That's why he'll always be Number 2 heh We finally cross paths. Reddit has been telling me about you. I don't know whether to buy you a drink or run you over with my lawn mower. For now, I will give you a balloon style animal I made out of a large, double-sided dildo.  You and /u/_vargas_ sound like birds of a feather.. You managed to summon /u/_vargas_  Should just be a little flag that says "bang" on it. That story is nuts. I feel your pain my friend.

Years ago when I had the boys dissected, I was told that problems are rare and this is a basic, simple procedure. They numb me up and go to work.

First vas, snip and sizzle, not problem, not much pain at all.

Second vas, snip and slip. Apparently they lost the grip and my boy tube, went all "yipe yipe yipe yipe" like a wounded, sad puppy. They had to dig to find it. When they did, I could feel them tugging on it, pulling it back to cauterize. That pulling feeling could be felt all the way up into my stomach... like everything was connected and my intestines were having a sympathy pain moment.

To this day, my right nut aches more than my left and I feel the tugging sensation from time to time. Probably 100% mental, but it's there.

For the record, would ABSOLUTELY do it again. It's a sweet freedom to not have to worry about the procreation aspect of sex. I also think I cum more than ever, which the lady seems to like. :D that was difficult to read through. really difficult. 
 I'm a girl and that was hard for me to read. I had mine done 15 years ago.  I got a Valium injection - awesome!  I didn't feel the pain but could feel the tugging.  Anyway, the doctor that performed the procedure had done hundreds of vasectomies.  He told me guys had worked on their laptops, taken phone calls, read books, etc. during the procedure but I was the first guy to laugh the entire time.  Apparently Valium gets me very very high.  Well shit, my wife and I had this conversation a few months ago and this was one of my fears (outside of the possibly agonizing pain for the rest of my life.)  We decided not to go through with it. The procedure really was difficult to handle for me (mostly psychological, other than needing him to initially add more freezing), but so far (knock on wood) I'm not feeling too bad post-op.  

You do have to wear a funny jock strap/ball support thing though.  
 "knock on wood" (   ) Haha well there are no trees in the forest today.   I had to expel thenext day.  Envisioned expelling to be painful. It wasn't.   Btw never-ending condomless days so worth it in the end. Yes. Me and my husband got right down to business with blow jobs and sex up to 3xs a day to get all those suckers out. So much fun :) Just don't push it.  I went out the next day and ran a bunch of errands and light/medium lifting, thought I was all good, until I was in major pain for the next three weeks because I didn't take it easy for a few days afterward. And definitely do as they say in regards to support and protection.  I slacked off after a few weeks and woke up one morning to blood pouring out of the area.  I had torn the incision back open without realizing it due to sleeping nude.   Probably depends on the doc.  Mine was SO easy.  I could feel some strong tugs on the right nut though.   FYI, I had it done and it is just uncomfortable.  No real pain at all.

I think a lot depends on the Doc.  Talk to some friends and coworkers about it (you will probably find a lot are happy to talk about it)  and get a good referral. I got my vasectomy when I was 23.  The anesthesia shot to the balls was the most painful thing I've ever experienced.

BUT

I opted out of the pre-surgery "calming" pills  and over all it wasn't bad.  I would seriously suggest reconsidering.  My biggest gripe was mine own fault--I went back to being active the next day and ended up tearing the scabbing multiple times. (not painful, just bloody) Assuming the doc knows what he's doing, it's not so bad. Gotta weigh your cost benefit: about $500 and a week of discomfort (my doctor said I can go back to work after 2-3 days depending on how I feel, so I got mine done on a Friday afternoon), and you get guilt-free sexy time with no pesky condoms. Got to admit the "20% chance of life long life changing pain" put me off...   Thats a horrendous chance - and it seems most GPs are unaware of it even though its mentioned on the NHS website.
 I know those statistics seem high. I'm an RN and I worked in urology for a year doing this. Never once had a patient with this issue honesty. Just wanted to add my experience. 

And it's something you want a Urologist to do, not a GP.  Those statistics are high but as one of the guys who fit that category, I would definitely call spending over a year disabled and still in daily pain life changing.  Ok, I'm 26, I had it dont about 6 months ago, I had about the same experience what OP had, but i would do it again over dental surgery. It isn't that bad at all, the pain isn't unbearable by any means, it's simply just the strangest pain you'll probably feel..... the smell though, well, that is something that will stick with you. On the up side never pulling out is really really awesome.  &gt; i would do it again over dental surgery.

Having had a vasectomy and dental surgery,  I would do my own vasectomy over dental surgery any day of the week.   TIFU doesn't mean "Today I made the best decision of my life."

The pain is temporary. The endless, condomless, pregnancyless, sexy hump days will start next week and won't end til you're too old to have them. &gt; The pain is temporary

PVPS is pretty real. &gt;[Post-vasectomy pain syndrome](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Post-vasectomy_pain_syndrome) is a chronic and sometimes debilitating genital pain condition that may develop immediately or several years after vasectomy. Because this condition is a syndrome, there is no single treatment method, therefore efforts focus on mitigating/relieving the individual patient's specific pain. When pain in the epididymides is the primary symptom, post-vasectomy pain syndrome is often described as *congestive epididymitis*.

Well, this scares me. I've been diagnosed with [epididymitis] (http://www.mayoclinic.org/diseases-conditions/epididymitis/basics/definition/con-20032876) before. It's not fucking fun.

There isn't an easy pain releaver to take, due to how the pain works. I was taking norcos at the time for an unrelated condition. It didn't do shit. I could feel the ibuprofen reduce the swelling though. Honestly, (physically) ibuprofen helped more than opiates. You can take morphine and it'll put your mind at ease, but it doesn't really relieve the pain. It lingers there and it did help... but you can't pop those every day. Mmmm, motrin. Yikes. I guess I got lucky. I got snipped a couple of years ago.  I likened the overall discomfort to that of a minor tooth filling.   

I did it on a Friday, with the plan of sitting on my ass in front of the TV with a bag of ice all weekend.  However by mid-day Saturday I really felt completely fine. I never needed any meds other than OTC.   

My major TIFU was stupidly telling my wife on Saturday that felt 100%.   That meant I was no longer able to do jack shit, but I had to go back to doing my share of taking care of our kids/housework, etc.   I should have milked it at least clear through the weekend.  Least when it was over the doctor didn't walk over to the door and say

''The real doctor will see you now...'' Ask your wife how it felt pushing out those babies or worse having C- sections.  As a man who has had a vasectomy, I think you're being dramatic. I told my doc that I wanted to see smoke and pieces of flesh removed, not just snipped. I wanted to be sure those little fuckers had no where to swim! I had this done a few years ago. In the grand scheme that's just a blip on the radar. Meh. I found mine more akin to having a tooth pulled. Most uncomfortable part was the pulling sensation of the vas deferens from deep within. That and yes, the smell. I found LASIK equally as uncomfortable. So worth it though.  The smell I heard is awful. My Hubby had one and he said it is a smell he will *never* forget. OP either had a shitty doctor or is a massive wuss.

Mine was a breeze. Some uncomfortable pinching and tugging, but that's about it. Then for a week my balls were slightly tender. Like the feeling way after you get hit the nuts where it's not really pain, but it feels like it could be. No worse than any other minor medical procedure I've had. Far better than having my wisdom teeth out.

10/10 Would do it annually if that's how it worked. Also if I thought there was any chance of ever having intercourse again.

Maybe a lot of it is in your head. If you're super focused on "oh god not my balls", it may make worse. I went in almost giddy with excitement about never having another pregnancy to worry about. That might be a big difference maker. Yeah because  everyone has exactly your experience. Where the hell do you fuckers live that you do this in an actual hospital with a general?  I showed up at the clinic, sat on a table, dropped trou, kept my damn shoes on, watched them numb/inject/slice/burn, laid back and bled for a minute, got two stitches, and went home to ice, beer, and Vicodin for a weekend. 

Then about four months later I did it again.  Because I am Wolverine. Get testicular cancer and we can talk. Until then thank your lucky stars you still have both to complain about smells with.  So much cringe from one post.  Is it just me or is reading this thread making anyone else's testicles ache Thank you. Glad to know i'm not the only one. I agree that the smell is terrible, but the rest didn't happen to me. The initial shot was a bit painful, but after that it was simply uncomfortable. Then I sat on the couch for two days watching movies and playing games before I returned to normal life.

The oddest part of the whole thing was having a nurse call me to remind me that I needed to ejaculate once a day for two weeks. No. Problem. I know the scorched balls feeling. The doc didn't pump enough novicane into the man meat and ended up cooking it well done. Worst part was he played Bob Marley during the entire ordeal. Now I'm forever linked to Bob Marley and the smell of overcooked testicle.  ... My right testicle fell out &amp; a cute med student asked to play with it. The doctor laughed, I allowed it (for science of course)

It hurt for 2 months Shaving prep was poorly described, for me. Cleaned EVERYTHING off my balls only to miss the tiny part I needed to clear right by the shaft. Nurse with a dry razor to the rescue. To this day I keep myself clean down there because it just looks and smells better. Couple days of aching. No discernible difference at all afterwards. 10/10 would do it again to save my wife invasive surgery. Welcome to the club. I'm trying to imagine what your post would sound like if you had given birth to a baby.  Seriously. Carrying a small person who uses your rib cage as an xylophone for 10 months, squeezing this person out of your vagina after having a long needle inserted into your back and several people's hands up your privates, possibly having your ripped and bleeding vag sewn back up, and then giving up months/years of your life as this person sucks on your blistered boobs all day every day--I'm just all out of sympathy here, guys, sorry. You didn't really fuck up, you just prevented future fuckups.  Did you wear a tuxedo for the procedure? "if I am going to be impotent, I want to look impotent..."  Thanks for letting us know how great it is! I saw somebody do this to themselves with a skateboard once, your way sounds more fun Fuck that! Have mine scheduled very soon. Can't believe I clicked on this, fuck! Here's hoping Jesus and the rest of his Super Best Friends look over my sack... As a woman with my tubes done. Please go do it. So much less invasive. They do not  have to put you to sleep,or inflate your belly with air, or fuck around with your insides. I wish my husband had done it but that's the way the insurance worked out. My husband had his done on a Friday and was back to work on Monday. Took it as easy as he could but he doesn't have a cushy office job either. For the vast majority of people it's no big deal and definitely worth it. LOL well for what it's worth others have said it was no big deal for them, so maybe I'm just a wimp.

I really do feel pretty ok now, ~5 hours post-op. I'll take any positive spin here! So worried for my guys! Glad you're on the mend.  I was 26 when I had mine done. I'll go over briefly how it went down.

First the doc is like "take this rubber band and tie your unit to this other thing that goes around your neck so your dick is pulled toward your stomach, so it stays out of my way."

then he gave me local pain killer that felt like taking a rubber band and snapping it on your balls. It wasn't that bad; stings for a moment then the medicine takes over.

Then he starts going to work (you should have shaved beforehand). There's many different ways to complete the vasectomy, I'll go over how mine did his. 

It was like a little needle that pokes a hole in your sack. The entire incision was less than a 1/4 in long. he removes the vas from the testicle (each one) and burns them. My left one was more stubborn than the right one for some reason. Anyway, afterward, it feels like blunt pain. You wear a stupid jock strap that pulls your junk way up into your pelvis. If you take it easy for a few days, keep the area clean, and keep something cold on it, you'll be fine.  Check out the potential side effects... 20% chance of long term pain. Not saying dont do it but, but do your research first. I got as far as being booked in but after some research I decided it wasnt worth the risk!  More like 2%...stop exaggerating. I'm seeing stats like 3-20% or 5-20% or even 1 in 2000, but overall the only consensus I'm seeing is "it's not well understood". Which is fucking shameful. Hope you don't get post vasectomy pain syndrome for making the decision to do this. 20% odds to be in pain for the rest of your life seems a bit too high compared to your SO just having to take a pill. Well mine went fine, but it was the strangest thing I have had done to my balls. One doctor and two (why two) very cute nurses and nobody is looking at my face, just the balls.  On the up side, when I was filling out the paper work I was talking to a guy that was waiting for his wife to wake up from her tube tying procedure and she wasn't waking up.  He looked scared as shit.  You did the manly thing Vassufferens.  Revel in it.  Well, I came in expecting another one of those "found out my wife is cheating" tifu posts that actually belong in another sub.

"Pleasantly surprised" is not the right way to describe how I feel now.  I'm glad your wife isn't cheating, but I'm cringing severely after reading your post.  My best wishes to your genitals, and I hope you enjoy your future of condomless and pregnancy-free sex. In about 10 months the population boom will be traced back to this post.... TIFU by reading this.  If it makes you feel any better, in December I had a stent put in for kidney stones, totally out when it was put in.. the removal process was supposed to be easy.. done in doc office with a local... nope, not my doc... done in the hospital with ZERO anesthetic. Just shoved a miniature claw up my pee hole to pull it out. I was screaming in pain. The nurse looked terrified.

Kidney stone pain had redefined my definition of pain up until then. I now have a new definition of pain.  Yikes!  I'm a female and my nether regions are cringing at this. Worst. Pain. Ever. I get all my advice from 5 year olds. they tell it like it is. I should ask a kid whether I should stay at home and play video games while eating pizza or go to work. "You should go to work, fat people shouldn't eat pizza" My niece is 5 and learning about healthy foods in school. She is constantly telling my brother not to eat pizza and that if he drinks soda, his teeth will all fall out.  In grade five, a dentist came to our class and said within 24hrs the sugar from pop will dissolve into your teeth. I thought this meant the sugar would just disappear. I spent years thinking after 24 hours my dental health would renew itself Oh god. This is horribly funny. Your poor teeth. Me, too. That's why I eat candy for all of my meals. "With the increasing risk posed by the Greek exit from eurozone, does it make sense for Germany and other major European powers to prop up Greece's debt or organize a swift exit while maintaining stability in Spain, Portugal, et al?" "Friends help friends out" They don't cross-the-line because they are asshole, they just don't have a line.   They tell it how it is. Kids.  I have black hair and usually wear kind of dark eye makeup.  Today a little girl came into the gas station where I work, looked at me and said "are you like, mean?" Well, are you? Lol I hope people don't think I am!  Because you're mean but don't want people to know? Standard issue sociopathy. I think you are. There's something adorable about that type of naive honesty.  Adorable huh? My son was four or so when he suggested to a rather large lady that she maybe should put some vegetables in her shopping cart along with her chips and pop.

It's hilarious, but wasn't so cute at the time.  Story time! Reminds me of when I bought my boy to work when he was four and he hit it off with one of the biggest of the big shots at a Fortune 500, a lady who always wore pants - never skirts or dresses. Crowd gathered around to see the cute kid talking to the VP, when he noticed something through her sock... a tattoo! She turned beet red when he started pulling down her sock and lo and behold we all discovered her pretty amazing and elaborate tribal tat! My boy is mesmerized by the intricate work, starts running his fingers along the designs, and the Veep in a state of total embarrassment, but needing to say something says, "Do you know what this is?"  
  
My boy, "Yes, it's a tattoo."  
Veep: "Yes, it's a tribal tattoo. Do you know what it means?"  
My boy, "Yes, it means you drink too much."  
That was many years ago, and I still hear about it now when I bump into old coworkers.

 At least he's honest. Almost to good to be true, but fuck it I'll believe it Your son was probably just saying what everyone else was thinking tbh. Kids speak the truth. Dude. No. Kids lie like rugs. They just have no filter, so whatever is passing through their brains comes out of their mouths. No, the truth speaks kids. A sketchy clown *would* say that. Some time ago at the grocery store my sister saw a rather large woman carefully backing away from from the shelves after plucking some item from higher up. Some little 5-6 year old demon child was watching the woman's slow reverse shuffle and started making the backup beeping noise used by trucks, much to the horror of his mother who quickly dragged him away while apologizing profusely. If I was there, I'd probably have to excuse myself while dying of laughter. I did that when I was a kid!! I don't think my dad even got mad at me if I'm remembering the story correctly.  My small cousin asked his daycare attendant if there was a baby in her belly. She said no, so he asked if there was a baby in her butt.  Exactly.  

When my son was about 5, we were in line at the grocery store and there was a rather large lady in front of us.  My son was looking at the gum (that they keep next to the check-out line) and he turned around right as the lady backed up, and hit his head off of her rear end.

The look on his face was like "what the hell just happened", and he looked at her rear and looked at me and said "whoaaaaa, that's one huuuge butt!".

I would like to have crawled into a hole somewhere.  It's funny now, but at the time I was ready to run out of the store. No it was hilarious at the time too.

You were just too busy feeling embarrassed to notice. Speaking of embarrassing, my son calls trucks... Well, he calls them cocks. He tells strangers about all the cocks he sees fairly often...  My son does that as well. We moved recently and used a moving truck. Afterwards, he kept asking people where "Dada's big *truck*" went.

He also pronounces bridge like "bitch" so when we go to the playground he likes shout at me that he's going to "run all over this bridge."

We don't make friends easily.  My son has combined "fire truck" into one word. It was fun when he loudly told everyone about the fire truck at the library... Yep, my 3 year old niece loves to yell about the fire fucks. She's started teaching my 19 month old daughter about fire fucks too, which is nice. We had the same problem with the word "fork."

Nothing like being at a social gathering and my son saying "mommy I need a fuck!!!!" Our daughter does that too. I feel you. The best was when we were at a church function and she yelled "FUCK PLEASE!" My parents said that as I child I would always *loudly* request my "fuckin' knife" (fork and knife) at restaurants.  Should I feel stupid for not getting this? What starts with f and ends with uck? fire truck? flying duck? No,  especially if you don't have a one or two year old.  The interesting thing is my kid started out saying "fire ruck"  then one day switched to fuck for no reason.  Kind of, yeah. Or just very innocent. When my now 4 year old was a little less articulate, he had such a fascination with flags. He'd talk and talk about all the flags he saw.  It would've been fine if he could pronounce the "L" in flag.  I have a cousin who pronounces "think" like "fuck". For weeks we'd mess with him, e.g "Go get your thinking cap!" My adorable baby daughter told a homeless person in rags that he shouldn't play with scissors.  When I was younger, I was sitting in the cart and yelled, "mom, look at that fat lady!" my mom quickly hushed me as the lady looked our way. I took the hush to be quieter, so in a loud whisper I said it again and my mom finally just rushed us out of that isle. I spent the day sightseeing with my grandmother once when I was four. I had a tendency to loudly point out fat people, and my grandmother knew it. As a very large woman approached us, she bent down and whispered to me "I know that lady is fat, you don't have to tell me!" Just as the lady was passing us, I shouted at the top of my lungs: "You're right, grandma! That lady is REEEEALLY fat!" Last year, my son's preschool had an ice cream social to welcome their new director. Now... she's a fairly big lady. Nice, but had a few spare tires around her belly, naw'm saying?

My son looks over to me, bless his snarky little heart and informs me in a hushed yet still audible voice: "Uh, daddy... she has a fat belly!"

Poor director turned around and quietly walked away.  When I was around three, I horribly embarrassed my mother by loudly telling her that the lady at the table next to us at an ice cream parlor needed to go on a diet.  I then grew up to be a fat lady myself.  I suppose I deserved that. Just go on a diet Lady from ice cream parlour, was the 30 year wait worth it? my great aunt was an awful person my family who isn't afraid to say anything to anyone shied away from her (she was a bit psychotic the rest were just alcoholic) when I was about 4, she was wedging herself into those old woven lawn chairs to sit down, she finally squeezed in.  then I say, 'now let's see you get back out.' my dad grabbed me and ran inside. total dead silence. then everyone ran away laughing.  they still joke about it to what I said to ol aunt sysil day. I'm 30.  Smart kid. I wish there were more of him in the world.  Yea, I substitute. A little 2nd grader looks at me and gives the cutest little laugh while saying "your head is too small for your body." Hahaha, you little motherfucker.  2nd grader is too old for that - she's just a bitch. I used to be a bit over weight. One day I took my cousin to a mini golf place. She was about 5 at the time. We were waiting in line and she was resting her head on my stomach while we stood there.

She looked up at me with this really sweet look and just goes  "It's a good thing you have a big fat tummy for me to lay on"" and then just goes back to resting her head on my stomach while we stand in line.

I was....I couldn't even be offended. She meant it in such a sweet way and it was just.... It was the kind of brutally honest sweetness that only a kid has. And in a weird way it was a really nice compliment. Kind of her way of saying " I love you just as you are plus you just happen to make a really good pillow" 

Kids, man. It wasn't even thinking along the lines of "I don't care you're fat". Kids think of fat as a feature of the person, neither negative or positive, just a feature like short or tall. They haven't yet had the negative connotations of being fat instilled in them.  Yep. My daughter has the most adorable little ears that stick out a bit, and they're soooo soft. Ever since she was a baby I've told her how much I love her little floppy ears. So, naturally, she's very proud of them. The other day at the park she told a lady, "My mom says I have really floppy ears," all matter-of-factly. The lady looked over at me like I was a monster and stammered something to the effect of there being nothing wrong with her ears. My daughter looked at her like, "Yeah, like I was sayin, my muthafucking floppy ears are the muthafuckin finest." Your daughter wouldn't by chance be a puppy would she? She's a Samuel L Jacksonhound. Health class doesnt happen for awhile haha.  "Hey mom methhead uncle joe is here!" You had me at "Dirty_Liberal_Hippie"! [Aww shucks](http://i.imgur.com/2SNuzbf.jpg) My 5 year old asked her Nana why she has so much blood in her. Confused, her Nana said, "I have the same amount of blood as anyone else" "But why are you so puffy and jiggly?" 

My mom said, "That's not blood sweety, that's fat" 
My daughter got so upset and said, "Nana, you ARE NOT FAT! All I gotta do is poke you with some needles and all that extra blood will squirt out."

My mom then silently looked to me and whispered "This is really embarrassing." Kind of reminds me of my sister and my grandma.  Old people tend to get flabby wrinkly skin. Bat wings under their arms and such.

My sister used to go up to my grandma and ask " Can I play with your flab?"

My grandma would always let her, too. It's probably because they know you won't do anything to them. I thought it was the lack of developed empathy. Spewing all the unfiltered information that pops into their brain bc they haven't grasped a sense of what others might feel from hearing what they say. I like it, its like talking to miniature sociopaths.  Not that so much as they haven't realized that pointing out that  someone is fat is "not ok". Think about it. You are 4 and you say to your mom "that man's shirt is blue" "That's right Bobby, it is blue!"  "that woman is tall". "That's right. She is". These are facts. There's no value or shame assigned to them. So you say "that girl is fat/that man is dark skinned/that woman has no legs" because you're just pointing out things that are interesting to you. It's not good or bad, or mean or racist. It just is. The shame or value or political incorrectness gets added later.  