&gt; I have engaged counsel in the hope of coming to an understanding with WoTC. Over the years, I have made the games more accessable, promoted WoTC's products, and provided a high-profile physician's endorsement. During the 1990's, the game designers (then TSR Hobbies) with whom I spoke and corresponded appreciated my contributions to the hobby, including my online character generators. My adventure gaming site has never accepted advertising or made any money, and of course I have never pretended to own someone else's intellectual property.

This right here. I don't understand why Wizards would want to shut this down since it would be driving more people to their games. Why make a big fuss over free advertising? They put their character generators behind a paywall now. They want people to pay for their own generator, not use a free one. More online subscriptions is their primary goal. I think this is the real answer right here...  They decided to make their own generator but you have to pay for it and the long-running "fan" one that was free, now might take some of their money away.  Not hard to see. They've been providing a character builder for 4e through D&amp;D Insider for years. True, but maybe they've finally decided they were losing too much over the years to this free competitor. They saw a revenue stream not being utilized. They weren't "losing" anything. As mentioned by others in this very thread, his presence **brought** players to the game, enhanced it.  Doesn't matter, because business decisions are made by individual people who are doing what's best for themselves, not for a legal construct owned by a legal construct in turn owned by nameless, faceless shareholders.

Somewhere in WotC there is a product manger (or whatever they call it) who came up with the paywalled character generator. They have a vested interest in seeing it succeed, or at least appear to do so. Revenue brought in by the chargen is easy to see and measure directly. Revenue lost due to some free advertising going away is very hard to measure. So, when it comes time for raises and promotions and internal power struggles, they can point to the easy to measure revenue gained, and hand-wave away any goodwill losses, if they are even noticeable at all.

On their side is a legal team trying to justify their continued employment by doing something, even if its a net negative for the bottom line. Again, # of DMCA's sent out, easy to measure. Goodwill lost, hard to measure.

The only way it could possibly come back to bite them is if a huge fuss is kicked up, but even then people lose their shit on social media over such small things nowadays that they might be able to handwave that away too. I had never thought of corporate decisions like that. It's very insightful. also, incredibly accurate The best kept secret of capitalism is that the most well run companies are communistic in nature.  That shouldn't be a surprising outcome though. The entire crux of capitalism vs communism is a debate over the importance of the value/benefit to the individual vs the value/benefit to the group. A corporation that acted exactly as if it were one unit cohesive unit would almost definitely be "better" because if it weren't then the objectives of the capitalists and the communists would align; (self interest would equate to group interest and the distinction wouldn't exist). Excellent explanation  Thank you for explaining this so clearly. &gt; business decisions are made by individual people who are doing what's best for themselves, not for a legal construct... Revenue brought in by the chargen is easy to see and measure directly... a legal team trying to justify their continued employment by doing something, even if its a net negative for the bottom line

Excellent comment. More succinctly, this is the whole problem with KPIs - be careful what you measure, because that's what you'll be optimising for (whether you *intend* to or not). I remember when 4e was coming out that the character builder was going to be a pay feature. This was right around the time when the tabletop RPG gaming community split between [DnD 4e](http://1d4chan.org/wiki/Dungeons_%26_Dragons_4th_Edition) and [Pathfinder](http://1d4chan.org/wiki/Pathfinder_Roleplaying_Game) (referred to as 3.75). 

Purely hearsay, but I believe Wizard took a step back from some of their pay-to-play features when so many gamers followed Paizo to Pathfinder. I remember that they also were totting that they had a system they would come out that would allow play over the internet, similar to what [roll20](www.roll20.com) is doing now.  Former D&amp;D Insider subscriber here: When 4E first came out, they promised the online features were going to be quite robust and fairly extensive.  Based on this, my table and I all chipped in and bought one year of D&amp;D:I.  The character generator, initially, was pretty solid (for 4th ed, which isn't super impressive).  The main benefits we saw were that all books were included as they released and that errata were factored in as they were released (My wizard looks sadly at this former 30 square aoe permalock stuns).  

However, 2 years in, the tabletop dungeons features hadn't materialized.  They moved from the on-desktop application to a Silverlight one, that was noticeably worse.  I think around the 3 year mark, we got invited to sign up for the beta test of their Roll 20 equivalent.  I didn't spend a lot of time on it, because at this point we were experimenting with other systems, but it was honestly, probably weaker than what ROll20 started with, except in terms of gameplay integration.  We shut off the subscription when it expired that year and moved on to Pathfinder and Shadowrun. Roll20 is pretty solid, especially given that it has an entirely free offering that's extremely workable. In the area of paid online tabletop clients you have things like Fantasy Grounds, which is fantastic (and expensive). This is a pretty niche area, so having a solid free product and an amazing paid product doesn't leave them very much room to compete without also being really good.  Simple fix.  Open source the code for the fan one. This generator *doesn't actually exist*, behind a paywall or indeed anywhere.  It's not the real answer.

Preliminary move (destroy competition) before creating an actual product, maybe.  But closing all the nonprofit soup kitchens with legal threats before opening your own for-profit version is a scuzzy maneuver that'll backfire. They do have a character generator, or at least did for 4.5e. It was part of D&amp;D Insider and was a .NET application.I used it a few times but was not a fan not only because it was Windows only (no mac, linux, or tablet compatible versions, a glaring omission IMO) but because it was slow, clunky, and required a subscription to get updated. The one they have now is online only (uses silverlight) and only supports one user at a time. The only one they had when 4e came out was much better. One subscription allowed for I think 4 updates per month. Allowing for a whole group to use it (though depending on how large your group was, not everyone could update every month, but you could use it without updating). Unfortunately, this is nothing new for WotC. A couple of years ago they decided to make their own smartphone app for Magic the Gathering, and they tried to get every other MtG app pulled from app stores. They only stopped once their own app flopped and they gave up on it. WotC is kind of the worst. They continually do anti consumer stuff like this and they've whored out their licenses for a few years to shitty game devs. I've been interested in their stuff in the past but have always shied away due to some of their practices I've heard about over the years. It's like they're taking lessons from other sinking ships like Games Workshop.

Create hyper-deluxe products at a loss, overcharge for them in panic,  nobody buys so persecute fanbase, come out with new edition of product, repeat.  

How can that not go right!? I'm not familiar with the current state of Games Workshop, but i've been hanging around the local boardgame store for the last 6 or so years and people have been saying "Games Workshop is about to collapse!" all that time. ... But, it hasn't.

Is GW actually in trouble, or is "Games Workshop about to collapse" in the same way that "Blizzard are losing customers" while being up a million subscribers? Their last financials were all down, according to Wikipedia, and their [stock seems to be slipping this year](http://www.google.com/finance?chdnp=1&amp;chdd=1&amp;chds=1&amp;chdv=1&amp;chvs=logarithmic&amp;chdeh=0&amp;chfdeh=0&amp;chdet=1424228681771&amp;chddm=965279&amp;chls=IntervalBasedLine&amp;q=LON:GAW&amp;&amp;fct=big&amp;ei=SAHkVKjUJcepiQKawIHgCw). In the last half-year report, [you can see a clear decline](http://investor.games-workshop.com/wp-content/uploads/2015/01/2014-15-Press-statement-final.pdf) between the half year prior and the reported one.

An 18% drop in EPS is not a good sign, and stuck out to me at a quick glance.

They went public at 685p and haven't been able to get back there in a while, and without splits or anything that implies that the company is worth less now than at its peak. Still a nearly $300MM USD company, though. Hard to say without more familiarity, but if I were investing (and I've never invested in England, so maybe it's all different, take my words with a grain of salt), I would be hesitant based on a 5 minute review.

Edit: Sorry, to your direct point, I don't see evidence of a dire, imminent threat, just reason for pause. They've started facing serious competition in their market for the first time in years, and are responding poorly to it. Their CEO [stepped down in 2014](http://www.beastsofwar.com/games-workshop/kirby-stepping-gw-ceo-interesting-preamble/) after gutting the company ("trimmed the fat" in corporate-speak), and although its possible they'll make a turn around I really doubt it.  They are the company most afraid of 3D printers. Oh yeah, that's right. They're a real threat that I hadn't considered while writing the above thoughts.

Not just their threat, though. Streaming : videotape rental :: 3D printing : tabletop gaming manufacturers. At least FFG got Netrunner FFG continually keeps me coming back for their quality.   Them massive expansion counts and not including reasonable content levels in Core Boxes though *cough* X-Wing, Lord of the Rings, Netrunner, etc. *cough* &gt; WotC 

They're owned by Hasbro, which is notoriously litigious. But this is just stupid policy by wotc.  Whoever ordered this takedown is a myopic business idiot.  Going after a lifelong gamer for providing visibility and on-boarding access to your product has to be the stupidest move i can imagine. 

Do they really think people will run over to a fucking paywall to character gen?  
Listen up Wizards of the Coast: Go Fuck Yourself.  EXCEPT THERE ISN'T ONE RIGHT NOW! And the one they were going to do for 5e fizzled out due to unknown reasons!

They are removing something with no alternative! ASSHOLES!

edited wording Remember how long it took for online tabletop to get going? Did that thing ever leave beta? I gave up on it during the beta test, because there were WAY better alternative. I don't know that it did.  I really the the only promise dnd insider kept was the character creator.

Also how does it take 5 years to program a Java thing that puts an icon on a background? And even the character creator had to be rebooted at some point.

But yeah, the virtual tabletop was an embarrassment when I tested it. When roll20 came out, I gave up on the idea of Wizard's applet completely - a kickstarted start-up had beaten them to the punch and blew them out of the water in terms of functionality, features and interface.

It's a shame, too. As someone who managed to get into the beta, we basically got an email from the devs saying "Hi, uh, WotC said we can't really talk too much about this, but we're allowed to tell you the project is cancelled." They kind of gave the impression that WotC wanted them to do something they thought was kind of shady. I know a friend of mine was saying he'd heard a rumour that they were planning on forcing you to buy digital versions of the rulebooks through it even if you owned a physical book, but, you know, that's a rumour from a "friend of a friend", so take it as you will. What we do know is that they basically got into an argument about how to move forwards with Wizards and WotC pulled it. 

I imagine Wizards are going to find another dev to make it, but until then we're up in the air. One thing they were trying to do was make it so that you had to purchase multiple copies of each 3D model for a miniature.

So if you bought a digital bugbear miniature, you wouldn't be able to place 5 bugbears down in your maps unless you bought 4 more copies of that same digital bugbear.

I shouldn't have to explain why that is totally absurd, given that they aren't physical and the program would be able to display as many of any 3D model as you wished.

I think they were also talking about making the digital miniatures use the same "booster pack" randomness scheme as their older physical D&amp;D miniatures.

Both terrible ideas. Whole thing is ridiculous.  WotC could have been including software with their damn books since 3.0 but instead they make it a subscription.  A simple character generator and DM assistant would be amazing, and they could even have codes in the books so you can unlock content.  smh No they haven't, because there's no character builder for 5th edition. (If there is please send me the link though, I'd really like to use it. Not sarcasm, seriously, I have games coming up.) How sad. WotC might be struggling financially, but making it more difficult for people (especially newbies) to play their game and damaging their online community is a disastrously bad move. Online subscription fee?  For a game that is built and played using your imagination?  Mhm, good luck to them. 5e doesn't even have a generator yet.  But they're issuing takedown notices against character/NPC generators.

It's totally nuts.  It's not "stealing" anything, it's just making it harder for DMs to have less-mooky NPCs. WOTC is beyond stupid. Their primary goal should have been to make **Magic The Gathering: Online** an accessible and modern video game. Its garbage-ware compared to things that came out in the 1990s. What is sad is that as a result Blizzard is gobbling up their consumer base with **Heartstone**. If Wizards had even 1 smart executive they would have made millions with pro online play but instead they just milk their shrinking base harder. Its evident that wizards has zero idea how the video game world works. Every D&amp;D video game has been bad and magic has been worse. Company is going to collapse if they can't get with the times. Milking the base over character generators is embarrassing.  &gt; Every D&amp;D video game has been bad and magic has been worse.

Well, this is horrible exaggeration, there have been plenty of fun D&amp;D and Magic the Gathering games, but I totally agree with the thrust of what you're saying. 

There was huge potential for Magic the Gathering: Online to be something huge and they've screwed it up for 10 years. But.. I liked Baldur's Gate.. That's because Baldur's Gate is a good game and /u/hi_blue is wrong. And Planescape. And Icewind Dale. And Neverwinter Nights. All great games. [deleted] Don't forget the fantastic Dungeons &amp; Dragons: Shadow over Mystara for arcade. I agree with you regarding those games in particular, but the most recent of that list, Temple of Elemental Evil, came out in 2003. I believe the more recent games have really fallen short, and that with such powerhouse RPGs in their portfolio, WotC theoretically shouldn't have any issue putting out other great games, instead of the lackluster F2P MMOs they currently have.

Most of the "anti-consumer" stuff we see from WotC seems to be more recent; the creation of pathfinder as a sort of "WotC cant do DnD right, so we will" in 2009, or the crazy explosion the MTG expansions with new cards constantly being pumped out, but no major new mechanics to make it worth getting back into (in my opinion). Combine that with the app takedowns and this free character generator being pulled, and suddenly this WotC appears like a different company then the one that put out those kick-ass games in the late 90s/early 2000s. It's a freaking lich lord, and someone needs to find that phylactery fast.  &gt; most critically acclaimed PC RPGs of all time

BG2 is in the top 20 of all games ever on any system, on metacritic. I think it was #18, last I looked - but there were several duplicates above it (ie, GTA4 on multiple systems, etc) Don't forget KOTOR, which was based on a WoTC-published Star Wars RPG with a rule-set derived from D&amp;D. Not a direct license but heavily inspired. I tried some version of online MTG but it lacked the ability to modify your own decks, which was really, really dumb. It gave you some random deck that you could *slightly* modify with a handful of cards. The whole point of MTG is building your own, unique deck to try different strats. I think I played the game twice. MTG online is pretty much MTG... online. You're thinking of Planeswalkers I think, which has a vastly superior user experience to MTG online, despite MTG online allowing you to create your own decks, buy, sell, and trade cards. WizardotC is a bunch of control happy fucktards just like Games Workshop.

I can see why though - your product is a set of rules wrapped in a style (intellectual property). It's a slippery slope and if you don't protect it you'll live to see it fall apart. &gt; WizardotC is a bunch of control happy fucktards just like Games Workshop

This line right here? This is bullshit. It's like calling an overzealous policeman a nazi. You're not making WotC sound worse, you're just devaluing how bad GW actually is.

I'm annoyed with WotC as much as the next guy over this, but they're not remotely on the same level of asshattery and anti-consumer bullshit as GW is. That's a good point, GW has taken fucking over the consumer to an art form.  What makes GW so bad? What doesn't?

* Annual Price increases that exceed inflation by a [ridiculous amount](http://warmaster40k.com/2012/07/11/games-workshop-vs-inflation-the-true-numbers-behind-the-price-increases/)

* Attempts at annihilation of local gaming stores by demanding the stores ship absurd amounts of product to maintain a prefered rate in the mid 2000s. Effectively trying to force all traffic through their physical stores. Then they increased their prices. 

* Litigation against online retailers forcing them to close up shop, so all online traffic must go through their own stores. Then they increased their prices and removed the option for free shipping. 

* Getting rid of pewter models, claiming they were inferior to this newfangled soft plastic/resin "finecast" (read, too expensive). Instead of redoing the molds, they use the old rubber molds for the pewter models, which caused huge warping/bubbling issues on every single model. Then they increased the prices of finecast models anyway.

* Attempting to sue people for infringing on copyright over the name "Space marine"...which has been around [since the 1930s](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Space_marine). Then they changed the names of all the codexes that might have a similar issue, and increased their prices. 

* Removing units from the rules in an attempt to force you to buy new models so you can still compete. They then jacked the prices of the new units up.

* Updating the rules at what seems like an ever increasing rate. New rulebooks come out what seem like every 2 years now. They cost more every edition. 

* Remove previously free content and articles that they had online and put it in books and charge $40 for them. 

* Add so many advertisements for their games in their magazine (which they charge money for) that is already a huge advertisement for their game, that only 40% of the content is actual articles/painting tips ect. Then jack up the price by $4 an issue.  [deleted] Like all things, its as fun as you make it. They've alienated a lot of older customers. In the mid 2000s their focus shifted grabbing the young kids armed with Mom and Dad's credit card, trying to get them to buy as much crap as possible before burning out or getting bored with the hobby.

There are people that have been in this hobby since before they even existed as a company, back in a time when you had to mold your own models. There are ways around their bullshit, and once you acquire enough models, you really never need to buy another. Hell, if you don't play in "official tournaments", you never even have to buy a model. I personally haven't bought a single thing from them since 2006.  Why not just buy pirated models from China? We don't speak of based Moonman, lest the slumbering litigators find out and take down his website again.  We do.  I was gonna start 3d printing my own. I hate the fact that China steals designs and sells stuff as it's own, but damnit if I feel no sympathy for GW. Hello, 3d printer. It's a lot of fun.  Despite all the bullshit it's still one of the best tabletop games on the market and has almost 30 years of history.  

I love the game but I stopped playing around 2012 after a decade of regularly playing the game.  I would drive 35 miles every other weekend to play it.  

I held on for as long as I could but the recent 5 years has been some of the most anti consumer business practices I have ever seen.  And it's a sinking ship.  They used to never license out their IP rights but seem to be tossing them around more and more freely to make a quick buck.  And they brag about how they still make profits every quarter but the only way they can is by serious downsizing.  

Edit:  I still occasionally go and watch games being played.  In the 10 years that I played there was a core group of players at my store.  About 10.  And there were always new guys coming in, some sticking around some not.  There would always be at least 15 people there ready to play.  Now there are only ever 3 or 4.  And none of them are the old guard.  Pretty much every I know who played in the 90s and before has stopped.  I'd say it's more the hobby itself (building/customizing/painting miniatures), and probably moreso, the lore behind the concept. The story itself is just *interesting*, and fun to keep up with even though I haven't played the game for 6 years. Personally, I'd like to pick it up again, but the already high prices have gone up, and in many cases the content per purchase has gone down :/ It just has a very dedicated fanbase. Warhammer nerds can be pretty intense about their hobby, even though the company continues to shit all over them and call it charity. I should know, I used to be one of them. The whole "Space Marine" copyright thing is kind of laughable, especially since the early days of WH40k were based pretty heavily off other products. Space Hulk is basically the plot of Aliens if the marines were all festooned in skulls, and even Warhammer Fantasy started life as a Lord of the Rings game before the Tolkein estate told them to stop ripping them off.

What ticks me off is that recently they've gotten themselves into some sort of spiral where the universe is constantly ending, so in order to bring out new content they're having to constantly do more and more ridiculous nonsense to top themselves. In the Fantasy world, several gods have *died*, Sigmar (AKA Jesus and Conan's lovechild) has had a second coming, Totally-not-the-Lichking is back and the ~~Drow~~ Dark Elves and High Elves have joined forces after a 2000 year war and *absorbed several gods of magic into the Pheonix King* to buff him up. Hell, even the Horned Rat has finally turned up and unified the Skaven empire. All we need now is for Gork and Mork to show up and literally every faction will be being lead by a half-god ubermench who will go on to pledge their loyalty to Matt Ward. I was pissed about the whole finecast thing.

I was annoyed when privateer dropped "white metal" but they at least were transparent - pewter prices had risen enough that they couldn't continue using it as a material (one assumes there was a similar mindset in GW.)

GW tried to lie about it, saying "No, our 'special' resin is TOTALLY better than pewter for high detail models!" The whole thing left a bad taste in my mouth. You said the rules are constantly increasing in price, but didn't give any specifics. I'm just going to add to your post by giving an example of the pricerange the RULES sit at, the most recent edition of the rulebook 7th edition costs $140 in Australia. This basically a patch update, changing an absurdly small amount of things from the 6th edition rulebook, that it led to the nickname "edition 6.1" or "edition 6 and a half" for 7th edition. Just to restate, this is a book that they priced at $140, overwriting the last one which was released JUST TWO YEARS AGO, and is necessary to play the game. Worth mentioning that the litigation against online retailers was something specifically asked for by small, local retailers. 

We were getting choked out by large discount outlets online. To be a GW retail store you had to devote a TON of very valuable shelf space to GW products. Space for multiple 4x6 tables, nice terrain, and all the little things that gamers take for granted are CRAZY expensive, and these big online retailers were seriously causing a bloodletting in the small local markets. 

I specifically remember the time where my year over year GW sales were down more than 50% and I was running more games by a factor of 3. 

That move on GW's done at the polite urging of several large retail associations, and when I say polite urging I mean hard nosed and often bitter negotiation. 

I'm not saying that GW isn't a bunch of ass hats, because they can be. But that specific move saved hundreds of independent GW retail outlets.  And all it served to do was piss off the people that didn't have a local gaming store that stocked GW products. Ebay still has plenty of stores that sell GW items for 10-20% discount. Chinese re-casters still exists and always will no matter how many websites GW tries to take down. Neither of which would exist if GW priced themselves out of the market after they got a taste of that video game money. 

I can understand your frustration about floorspace costs. I rent space for a local gaming club 2 nights a week. I have to truck in the terrain and furniture each night. I used to run it out of my garage, but space became limited and it was difficult to roll dice with gloves on in winter. Even at peak membership I don't think we were breaking even. While someone more versed in the industry can probably give you a full laundry list, here's a starter:

[They tried to copyright "Space marine."](https://www.eff.org/deeplinks/2013/02/trademark-bully-thwarted-spots-space-marine-back-online) Not in the sense of "Space Marine," specifically referring to the Emperor's instrument of judgment, but rather to the general use of the term, which would pretty much mean the entire sci-fi genre is in infringement.

Also, if you thought your hobbies were expensive, GW makes playing W40k nigh impossible for those unwilling to devote 100% of their disposable income to it. Between outrageously overpriced figurines ($10 apiece for pretty much anything), codexes that don't add material but rather redact/change old material but still do it to an extent that requires their use for official play ($50 every time they update), and general dickwadery in any competitive scene (think Nintendo and Brawl) and they're a pretty sleazy company overall. Don't forget the wonderful powercreep the codexes include, to make sure they get enough cash from people that want to win at all costs. The newest Necron codex was utterly egregious for this. Basic troops as tough as terminators, flayed ones becoming some of the best point-for-point melee in the entire game, the broken flyers only getting slight points increases. 

I don't play 40k, just watch [miniwargaming](http://www.miniwargaming.com/) videos. But it's getting so bad I'm starting to lose interest in even watching.  And, from a literary perspective, they keep sodomizing the lore like it was a Mexican crackwhore in Vegas. Fuck Ward and his Ultramarines. I stopped caring after they rewrote the Tau into a quasi mindcontrolled faction "because they were too nice for the setting". The rebalancing and nerfing of anything that worked well in the last dex, so that they cant buff everything that didn't, to make somebody's army unplayable against any sensible opponent (and in the case of missing models, unplayable AT ALL) at the same time as forcing them to buy a whole new range of models Fuck GW for what they did to my Orks.  I was almost ready to start playing again.   I don't play Dark Eldar - but from a spectators standpoint, they copped it worse

Almost every best choice from the previous dex is a silly unplayable choice in the new one

Almost everything that was unplayable that nobody owns, is now top tier unit, aka "plz buy this now too" Some plastic standard sized miniatures are rocking $US30 now.  Regional pricing is pretty amusing too, Marneus Calgar + Honour Guard is $105 in Australia, but $15 from Chinaforge (recasters in China who copy the models for anyone that doesn't know).  $20 per mini compared to $3 per mini.

GW have been haemorrhaging players and profits thankfully.  While the rest of the industry is rapidly expanding (FFG, Mantic, PP etc) GW profits are finally shrinking after spending years stagnant.  Their ridiculous year on year huge price increases and anti-consumer policies are costing them even rabid fans to great game systems like X-Wing TMG, Warmahordes, Deadzone, DZC and so on (seriously heaps of great TT games now).

Also, my god are tabletop game kickstarters fun ; p  Get on a runaway kickstarter like a Mantic one or the recent Conan boardgame and get your inbox flooded with new free stuff being added to your pledge daily ; p  So many minis in my painting backlog it's insane. Yeah, I was going off of some of the basic "$50 for 5 Spess Marines" line, but it's definitely true that a lot of individual units can run prices into the *stratosphere.* And then you have vehicles. Also, they routinely send C&amp;D orders to anyone posting stuff online. Stuff that's the equivalent of, for example, posting an index of monsters in the MM, or summaries of actions you can take in combat.

They also completely screw over hobby stores. Stores that want to carry GW product have to order everything, including things they know their customers don't want. They can never put anything on sale, either. Always has to be sold at full MSRP. Not to mention changing the imperial guard (a faction since the 80s) name for copyright bs. And shitting on lore for new toys daily There are many issues, but change for the sake of making people buy new shit is a big one.  They fuck retailers too.  Which is why I carry Reaper miniatures, and no GW minis whatsofuckingever. THANK YOU. I was going to say, if this was GW, there would be a new character generator being sold every month or two per each new rules release, it would priced at $45 USD, it would be an obvious warhammer-themed-reskin copy-paste of the custom made one (minus at least two features to avoid being a direct copy, as opposed to adding any), and the guy who made this character gen originally would be dragged into an expensive legal battle against a team of super lawyers or be forced into agreeing to never code a web page again


I play both games. WotC don't even compare. They mightn't be perfect, but this is pretty mild and extremely justifiable in comparison to Games Workshop, for example, deliberately cutting nearly a hundred units from the game that lacked models, after encouraging people for years to buy some similar models from an extremely overpriced range to convert their own version of the unit with, simply to screw over 3rd party modelling companies who provided substitutes because Games Workshop was unwilling to risk creating a model line for certain units they thought might sell badly. This of course, was after the legal battle they forced and eventually lost, when they were told they DON'T have a monopoly on a market that they are unwilling to actual provide for themselves. Their response? Fuck all their customers, even the ones who did exactly what they recommended since creation and buy a combination of their own kits to convert their own version of a model, but also the ones who had to buy 3rd party models to play the models their army needs BECAUSE YOU CHOOSE NOT TO SELL THEM GW. This doesn't hurt your revenue, in fact them plugging some of the holes in your system helps keep your game alive.

If you think WotC is the same as GW, you either don't know GW or you are just having an overexaggerated whine. Pathfinder coming out of nowhere and beating the snot out of 4th edition seemed to really shock Wizards out of their complacency. They implemented a bunch of cool new features and the new 5th ed stuff was looking great from the playtests.

... Then they seemed to just sort of... go back to their old ways. Maybe they saw all the praise 5th ed was getting and went "**HAR HAR, BACK ON TOP**" and went back to playing with beholder figurines on a pile of money. Can you maybe Eli5 how letting the site stay live leads to them losing trademark or whatever? Part of holding a trademark is a company must show it's defending/protecting it consistently.

So if an upstart were to maliciously infringe, the holder has to show they've let *no* known infringement stand.

That said, there's nothing saying WotC can't provide a limited license to D&amp;D for the site for an "undisclosed sum" (like $1). But WotC is a terrible company and probably wants the competition gone. [deleted] You can't copyright game systems. That's why Adobe has [this nice little document](http://www.adobe.com/aboutadobe/pressroom/pressmaterials/pdfs/photoshop_guidelines_pr.pdf) all about not saying you photoshop things. fuck yo ~~copyright.~~ trademark.  

I'm gonna photoshop myself xeroxing an off-brand bandaid while eating some store-brand jello.   You do that.  I'll be over here hoovering before I grab a thermos of coffee and sit down to google some stuff. Even a shitty company should see that if something is pushing more sales of their products is a good thing.

Do they have a similar online service for creating characters? I just don't see how this was an infringement on copyright, but I guess I don't understand when fair use is applicable and when it isn't. Yes, and its subscription based.

edit:
apparently is was discontinued fairly recently
http://archive.wizards.com/dnd/tools.aspx
archived here though for those interested Gross. I guess that's why.

Jesus, I'd buy it if it was like a one time fee per rule set but a sub is just a little overkill. The 4.0 version wasn't a terrible deal. The subscription gave you access to tools that provided basically all the information in any of their books.  You really only needed the basic ruleset if you were paying a subscription. Their tools were horrible.  Me and my friends tried to use them but all their functionality was behind a very poor UI.

This is not to mention how quickly it gets expensive to run a full group the legal way.  Each person would need to pay the subscription.  Where we were in our lives at this point, and where many tabletop gamers are, we simply don't have the money to pay the high premium to play the game the way WotC wants us to play.

It's such a shame that they're at odds with a large chunk of their playerbase.  Tabletops become very attractive to high school and college age kids because of the low cost to run.  A couple sets of dice ($5+/each), paper, and pencils are all you need short of your rule books.  After that the only recurring cost is paper, pencils, and snacks. Not for 3.5, they don't. &gt; company must show it's defending/protecting it consistently

But if the attacked *infringer* says that in an about page (or something like that) that their stuff is unofficial and not supported by the trademark holder then that should be enough. Trademarks are for protecting consumer from confusion, not for companies to bully people around.

There is no need for a license if things are clear and not confusing. Defending their trademark is a legitimate action but it's not an excuse for all abuse regarding trademarks.

A license would be needed if you, for example, were to have a character generator and wanted it to be officially connected to the trademark and you would pay it if you thought it would deliver profits (and the holder agreed to license it). At least Games Workshop provides digital versions of their rules to buy. WotC cant even do that. I bought the 5e books and then "pirated" a PDF version so I could do a Ctrl+F. The ultimate irony however is that their most successful system, the product that brought them most money and power is 3rd(including 3.5) edition D&amp;D.  The open gaming license was a move of utter genius that expanded the hobby immensely.  

However because it's lead to offshoot products they no longer gain revenue from(Pathfinder) they refuse to repeat the process, and becomes more akin to Games Workshop in how they handle their license.  A big mistake in my opinion.   Be careful about lumping developers and content creators who surely do not agree with this in with company lawyers and high level execs who made the decision.  Paizo has all of their rules publicly available and they still sell their stuff enough to make money. This argument doesn't hold water. I've gotten the general feel that it's because they're owned by Hasbro, and it's Hasbro being dicks, not WotC. This is giving WotC wayyyy too much credit. They did the same shit with MTGO and Magic Workstation/Apprentice, and it was definitely Wizards pulling the strings with that one. Wizards management doesn't give two shits about their playerbase anymore, pure and simple. Every major move they have made in D&amp;D (rules which made minis and tilesets mandatory in 4th edition) and Magic (mythic rares) in the past 10 years has shown this.  Except for the move to 5.0e, which does away with that crap and brings back cheaper options. And hell, they even give away the basic rules for free, complete with the 4 basic races and classes and rules all the way up to level 20. Because Wizards of the Coast really doesn't understand how to move into the 21st century.

Its their own fault pathfinder got huge instead of 3.5x.  It's their own fault that DnD and RPGs won't push past the threshold to real mainstream success.  3.5 was super huge, pathfinder didn't step on any toes. 3.5 had dozens of splatbooks and pathfinder came into existence mostly to capture the demographic that grew up with or just loved the 3.5 experience, but didn't want to move onto 4th edition. 3.5 came out in [2003](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dungeons_%26_Dragons) and pathfinder came out in [2008](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pathfinder_Roleplaying_Game). Dungeons and dragons is the closest any pen and paper game has come to 'mainstream success', having inspired a great number of video games and is rather widely heard of. World of Darkness is probably the largest competitor, and that's pretty much unheard of outside the pen and paper community (other than those few who have been exposed to Vampire) in my experience. Even pathfinder, which is huge in the PnP community, is unheard of in the wider populace. If I mention it to folks I have to describe how it's like DnD, and that's true of pretty much any pen and paper game. To me, Pathfinder was the 3.75: Fixed a lot of areas, mostly. Problem was, when 4.0 came out, we didn't want to migrate away from 3.(7)5. That was mostly 4.0's fault though, I guess. I think Warhammer deserves a mention. I feel like at my LCS, people are always playing Warhammer(or 40K) if they are not playing DnD. Don't think I know anyone around STL that plays Vampire, though i am sure it is big. Yea that's true actually, the various 40K pen and papers are really taking off in the last year or so. They've been out for awhile but Only War and Deathwatch seem to have picked up the steam they needed. I'm not sure if they're bigger than the WoD franchise quite yet, but they're definitely in the same tier of popularity these days. I'd like to find a group for them some time since I really like Warhammer 40,000. I just wish there were more Shadowrun groups running around. Always wanted to get into it, but my group is all about 4E and PF, that they don't want to dive into something new. MTG is successful not because of WotC but IN SPITE of them. Every single other thing they try to do fails.  [Here you go.](http://web.archive.org/web/20150105185840/http://www.pathguy.com/cg35.htm) (v. 3.5)

[And again.](http://web.archive.org/web/20140625065558/http://www.pathguy.com/ddnext.htm) (DDNext)

If you want an offline version, right-click (using Chrome) in the body of the page and 'Save As...' to your desktop. Now you can create characters offline. Here is the actual 5E one
http://dnd.x10host.com/ That's actually a lot more useful because it's updated with a bunch more races including the Aasimar from the Dungeon Master's Guide.  DDNext is not the same as 5E, for those unaware. It isn't? I thought they were just giving 5E a swanky name for whatever reason. D&amp;D Next was the playtest name for 5E, and could actually differ greatly version to version. The character creator above appears to be using rules from some of those playtests, as some of the basics don't match what's actually in 5E. Wasn't D&amp;D Next essentially the alpha/play test name for 5e?  Yes, but there are some differences. The first obvious one to me is that the DDNext character generator linked doesn't have the Warlock class which is included in the very first 5E book, the Players Handbook. Next, the generator is missing some of the specializations from classes that they can choose from at level 3. So it was an early version of 5E but there were changes made. http://dnd.x10host.com/ - 5E version Well, kinda, it isn't the same but the subreddit for DnDnext evolved into the 5e subreddit (/r/dndnext) for those interested.  [deleted] [deleted] &gt; Can't stop the Web Archive train. 

Yeah you can. If you put up a robots.txt which disallows archiving, Archive.org will spot it on its next crawl and retroactively remove any instances of that page from its archives. Source: https://archive.org/about/exclude.php If this happens, I've backed up the backups. PM me and I'll reup them. Excuse me while I nerd out a little but I find it interesting. Normally, Wizards would be unable to prevent someone from hosting something like a character sheet for their game because that is the "idea" portion. The setting and how they flesh out their game is the expression which they CAN copyright. Baker v. Selden expressed this nicely, even showing that "forms" (and similar, such as a character sheet) are not copyright eligible. The thing is Wizards has heavily intertwined it's rules and setting to make that more difficult. They arguably can copyright the expression of stats as "strength, constitution, dex, etc" (though that could arguably be intrinsic to the idea of the game and scenes a faire, thus again ineligible). But when you throw in "backgrounds" and flavor things that are all expressions, it becomes difficult for a 3rd party to host a character builder or accurate sheet without including some of the expressive elements.  
  
I would have liked to see this go to court to see how it plays out since I think it would be interesting and push on the concept of idea/expression, but sadly it looks like the owner doesn't have the resources. What the fuck Wizards? Seriously, thanks to this particular generator creating a new character took 15 minutes, tops - instead of spending 4 hours on juggling books, pestering the DM with questions (and I've seen DMs quit before the adventure even started due to 4 people showing really unprepared) and various "breaks".

Seriously, they are going full GamesWorkshop here. &gt;  (and I've seen DMs quit before the adventure even started due to 4 people showing really unprepared)

The *worst* part about being a DM is hands down the character creation. You get past that, you're pretty well set. It astounds me the divide between the amount of work a DM is required to put in and how some players don't even bother thinking of an idea for a character before showing up, outside of maybe "An elf." I absolutely agree. It can take upwards of 2 hours just for character creation if you have a group of new players and just 1 players handbook(3.5). However if you have experienced players its not as bad(30-40 minutes assuming no one brings characters).

Learning and deciding class/race is a nightmare, let alone skill points weapons/armor/spells and attributes Also, they can come in with a gaming mindset where they're afraid of having a "broken" character - after 20-30 hours of play, am I going to realise this character doesn't work? And essentially, no, there are a myriad of ways to either "mend" a problem or, as DM, work to incorporate the style of character better.

And I've done it with four people sharing a handbook and an online creator. Still took a beastly amount of time.

I don't know. Is there a DM griping sub? /r/dnd Broken which way? Too powerful is pretty easy to block, house rules away OP bullshit.  

Too weak is a bit harder, but cursed magic items(stronger so they get a little boost) that bind themselves to a character so they can't sell them or trade them without taking penalties is always a good fix. I think the assumption is that at some point down the line, they'll realise they're not as good at combat as other players and perhaps their other skills aren't in high demand - sort of like, I guess, if you'd picked Swimming as a skill in Deus Ex. You have no way of knowing which skills will be needed. Certainly, the DM should accommodate players (I keep track of each player's main skills - who has stealth, streetwise, so on) in order to keep everyone involved in some way. 

For whatever reason, players aren't so much worried about being too powerful later on, but they don't want to be the anchor. Actually, no, not even that - if it was just about *not* being the weakest, there are some obviously situational classes. It's about being the best or most efficient member of the team, poring over each class to try and make the optimal choice.  I guess I can see that. Of course a good DM will make sure they are well acquainted, and a good imagination can make any skill useful in a situation. 

For Example, a drake was hunting my group in a mine. They didn't know what it was, but a arcana check revealed it to be a drake, and the rage cleric was able to use a knowledge history check to find knowledge based on the history of drakes.

Stuff like swimming is harder sure, but a bullrush over a dock can make someone happy they decided to spec for it, or unhappy they didnt. I generally explain to them that if they are innovative enough all classes work well, and that some classes have a higher learning curve than others. This thread is depressing. I've wanted to play D&amp;D forever but nobody plays it, yet here you all are. You want /r/dnd, /r/rpg or even /r/lfg, I think. It'll be so easy for you to get into D&amp;D - I rank it up there with Kerbal Space Program and Red Orchestra as being one of the most welcoming gaming groups you can find. If you're lucky enough to be in an area with one, or there's a board game store in your local area, it's really easy to get into a group. Have fun! Personally, I find the worst part of being the DM is knowing that 2 people in my group will try and play, while one will try making funny quips all game and another will try to make every fucking little thing about himself. But that's my group, I get what settle for.

Also, char creation can be fun for the DM too - if you're starting a campaign and trying to iron out how everyone fits in etc. it can be a nice, dare I say, immersive exercise. Always that one person that wants to play the magical flying rainbow pony that can speak 3 languages and has 18 dex 18 con that they swear they rolled and they spent hours on this character so you can't make a scene now. It's not mary-sueing per se, it's more like "I have decided we will do this and will throw a tantrum if we don't" or "someone shines more than me, my character is shit and I'm gonna reroll and/or try to kill the offender".

Fucking christ, I saw this so many times I wish some other kind retardation would happen when we play. I have 3/4 role players and 1/4 "can we just fight something?" in my group. It's not *too* bad; it's okay that we can all make quips now and then for laughs, because it's gotta be fun.

I recently made the jump to the FFG Star Wars RPG, and the 1/4 player (who should probably just be playing Warhammer, frankly) decided to include two other players, of whom I only knew about one beforehand. So, instead of just going over the rules, we had to roll two more characters (clusterfuuuuck), of whom neither knew what they wanted to be, and then I had to try going over the rules with everyone except that 1/4 and one of the newbies just did not give a shit.

And I'm spending my free time this week writing up cheat sheets for each player, listing what they can use their main skills for, how to spend rolls, and so on. It's a thankless job that I didn't realise I needed to vent about until now.  Boy I get that. Oh do I get that. 5e is much less miserable, but your point holds really true for 4e. So far. We'll see once they add 3-4 extra rule books for 5e. True. I love 4e, but there is no way to quickly make a character in that one, it seems. At least in 3.5 (Never played 4) a big aspect that ate up time was figuring out where to put all your skill points and which feats to take. Because 5e has demphasised both of those things, additional rulebooks likely won't change that much (Although having a mess of 16 class features will likely still happen eventually). I had never played a single game of DnD before and never planned on it. The Pathguy website helped me learn some stuff real quick, and showed me how fun it is while making it easy and quick. Honestly without it, I might never play DnD again. Pathguy was my only way into DnD. It IS DnD to me.

RIP my DnD career. You might want to check out WFRP 2ed, system is easy as shit to pick up. Mostly D10/D100s, pretty simple and a really nice atmosphere to it. &gt; In fairness, WoTC must protect its copyrighted material. 

This is not the case. Unlike with Trademarks, which if not defended can be considered diluted and invalid, lack of copyright enforcement does not weaken the potency of the copyright in any way. That and they could simply email the fellow with permission /w any stipulations (such as not charging money) they require.  There was no need to be douche-bags about it. I get that they have their own character generator and want to push it... but shouldn't making their generator so good people want to pay for it be the go to solution instead of killing all competition? If you've ever seen Magic Online, or tried to do anything involving a Wizards website, you'd see why this isn't an option. And when somebody built a better digital TCG, Wizards sued them too.  Ok. Now this is where I know you're trolling. Because Hex was a straight ripoff of M:TG.

Their mana system was IDENTICAL

Magic's mana system is what makes magic unique. It's a trademarked design that Richard Garfield Ph.D sunk a shitload of time and effort into. And Hex didn't even attempt to innovate or change it in any way besides changing the names around. &gt; It's a trademarked design

Designs don't get trademarked.  Designs get patented.  [Patent 5,662,332](http://www.google.com/patents/US5662332) is the patent covering Magic: The Gathering. Threshold and resources actually plays very differently from lands and tapping. I think it's a better system (if not quite as nice as Scrolls' system of card sacrifice).  what would that be? That was scrapped ages ago. WoTC has no character generator. I'm still mad at them for buying up all the Game Keepers, turning them into Wizard of the Coast stores, then deciding they didn't want to be in the retail business and closed them all. His was my go-to character generator.

I've been contemplating making the move from 3.5 to Pathfinder. 

I will now move to Pathfinder. In case anyone is making the move to pathfinder I highly suggest you start with [The Pathfinder SRD](http://www.d20pfsrd.com/) and a friend where you have almost all the material pathfinder has. 

I would also suggest for character making purposes either use one of the spreadsheets suggested on the website or [Roll20 website](http://www.roll20.net) or if you have an iPad use the app "CharacterFolio" which is what I personally use.  Check out d20pfsrd and hit up the sCoreForge character generator.  If you want something more polished Hero Lab is a must.  Also welcome. [deleted] My wife and i have decided to get into d&amp;d. Can someone knowledgeable point me to an online version if such a thing exists. I'm getting so confused and don't know where to go. I know zero about d&amp;d except that it looks like fun and want to play. We don't know anyone IRL to play with so online would be great. In Australia if that makes a difference

Thanks for any advice.  The new edition of D&amp;D, 5th is perfect for new players. It's relatively simple, straightforward, there's a free set of basic rules, and unlike Pathfinder or 3rd edition it's not hugely bloated with a hundred additional books and extraneous character options.  everytime I hear about WotC they are sueing someone, hextcg, gamesworkshop. doesn't really do well for their image. Man, I've used pathguy for ages, and it's the first thing I thought of when I saw this headline (before seeing the URL). This is really sad. Forgive my noobness, I know nothing about DnD, but I just assumed it was free as the DM came up with the quest,and the players the characters? The only expense I see is physical game items. 
I get if the guy was printing or selling actual knockoff stuff but this seems ridiculous? You can't play a game with just a quest and characters, you also need the game itself, like rules and stuff. The basic rules of DnD 5th edition (the latest one) and some player content are published for free, but you need to buy some books if you want to expand that with more content. (classes, races, spells, monsters etc.) Why?  What reason could they possibly have for doing this? My guess would be that the character creator uses trademarked, DnD-specific classes/spells, or there are enough similarities overall to consider the content plagiarism.

But as I mentioned in another comment, you can still access the page with the web archive. Which they more or less stole from Tolkien which he stole from Norse and Celtic mythology. Some classes of copyright shouldn't exist. If you're borrowing from our ancestral cultures you shouldn't get to copyright it. Additionally, copyrighting incredibly vague terms like "Space Marines"

*cough* Games Workshop *cough* "Elf" isn't copyrighted.

"Sea elves, who get +2dex/-2 int, the Aquatic subtype and have favored class: Fighter" are. Hobbit is copyrighted, Beholder is copyrighted, heck the word Dungeonmaster is copyrighted :/ Trademarked, not copyrighted. Use of the term "Hobbit" predates Tolkien, in a bestiary from around 1910. His estate will still sue for for trying, and its not worth fighting them, but you can make a "Hobbit" thing and not be in violation of his copyrights or trademarks at all. [deleted] [deleted] I'm not a player myself, but this sounds like an unfortunate way to handle your fans being proactive. It's very possible that WotC are planning on launching a similar service (Assuming they haven't already. Really, I know nothing about this stuff.), but if people liked the way this fansite worked it would make sense to maybe get the guy on board. Hopefully it works out well. Did the generator contain information that was ONLY in books that you had to pay for?  If all of the information in the character generator was freely available, then WotC shouldn't have much to say about it.

I ask because I've seen a lot of resources online organizing spells between classes and spell levels, but they leave out the spell details.  I assume this is because to get the details you need to pay for the book. [deleted] If everyone that upvoted this link sent an email to wotc, then maybe just maybe we could make a difference. I am writing it after I post this comment. They also recently shut down the DndTools site, which was my favorite site to go to because it didn't allow homebrew content to mix up with legit content.

I own most of the books , but it was so easy to just look everything up on DnDtools then see what books they were in if I wanted to look further.

Luckily a bunch of people have put up mirror sites since it was available to download a while ago. I wonder if this is the beginning of the end for WotC now. Usually dropping things behind paywalls tend to be last resort actions before the announcement that things are going down the shitter.

I haven't played a tabletop for a few years now, but this certainly doesn't inspire me to get back into it. Stuffs expensive yo. I've never played D&amp;D but reading this makes me want to play. Why would they take down a generator? Probably for the protected content as others have mentioned, and WoTC wants to push people towards their own character generator is my guess. If you want to play D&amp;D (or another pen and paper, there are lots!), try to find a group in your local area. Local game stores that stock wargames like warhammer, or board games, usually have advertisements for groups that are forming or need players. Otherwise you can sometimes find an online group, though it doesn't capture the magic of doing it in real life. If you want to learn more, feel free to ask I've played PnP games for years. Or head over to /r/rpg! Pen and paper games are tons of fun and a really great experience when you find a group that fits you. The thing is, WotC *doesn't have a generator*.

They shut down the 4e one and scrapped the 5e one before it was released. Because it contains protected content used without a license, violating WotC's intellectual property protections. So does WoWhead, Dotabuff, Wikia and literally thousands of fan sites and wikis throughout the internet, which are treated by IP owners as both marketing tools and overall enhancements to the games they represent. 

Your response answers the "how", but it doesn't even come close to answering the "why".  And those aren't character generators designed, in part, to remove the need for players to possess a copy of a rule book to create a character.

Resources like WoWhead are purely supplemental - there is no conceivable way that they could jeopardize any part of Blizzard's (or any other MMO publisher's) business model. A character generator that includes protected rules and content text *does* pose a potential threat to WotC's business model.

I wasn't answering "how" earlier. I was answering "why". But if you'd like me to put it more clearly, here it is: They had the generator taken down because they have a vested interest in protecting their business, and the generator threatens that business in a way that is not fair to the content creator (and is exactly the reason that copyright law exists). Exactly. You could make a character off the creator and still play the game without ever giving WotC a dollar. WoWhead won't let you play the game in any way, shape or form without paying Blizzard.  Content creators being the actual people who wrote the book or the company they work for? The company that paid the writers for their work, and the writers who require that the line of products they wrote for remain profitable enough to stay in business so they can keep their jobs. Hope that clears it up for you. Different lawyers have different ideas as to how they need to protect their shit. It does. Also, I can know Venomancer's stats thanks to Dotabuff, but it doesn't mean I can play Venomancer without first getting a copy of Dota, even though it's free. That's the difference. That is cause, but it's not reason. Plenty of sites are reguraly allowed to use, even free of charge, protected content if the content owner grants permission.  
What we are surprised about is that they chose to try to become irrelevant, rather than encouraging community building sites and Resources and consumer driven branddevelopment.
Their own Productline for online Resources are laughable and does not fill market needs nor does it help their core Products. 
Just like Magic the Gathering. Their own inferiror digital Products paved way for something like Hearthstone to make a huge moneyprinting press. Considering Wizard's latest move I would also highly suggest playing Pathfinder instead (although your pen and paper platform choice is limited by the person running the game. 

Pathfinder is extremely similar to DnD 3.5 (some essentially called it a "fix" for it) radically different than DnD  4th edition and fairly similar to 5th edition.

If you are still 100% certain you want to play DnD then I guess a players handbook is the way to go.  Pathfinder is, however, much harder to get into than 5e, from all that I've heard about it.. so really, I'd probably recommend 5e for starters. But I don't know enough about it. I've played both and they both have their + and -s. Never thought pathfinder was all that special. Really just felt like a 3.5 mod.  I have extensively played pathfinder while I've only listened to a 5e podcast. I have to say 5e probably (most definitely) has a better intro however the core of the game is actually really similar. 

To be frank I'm still a bit confused by how the 5e wizard works. 

Also it has to be said that pathfinder has more secondary material since 5e is solo pretty damn new.  Because WotC has had it's head up its' ass for years. They just keep finding ways to piss off their consumers as soon as we start to forget about the last time. They've been making an effort to close down any and all 3.5 related sites to try and force people to switch over to 5e. Baseless rumors aren't exactly a helpful answer.  There's plenty to critique without making stuff up. after dndtools got shut down conveniently at the time of release of 5e, and wotc apparently tried to take down their d20srd, it's very obvious that those sites being taken down is supposed to help the start of 5e by making it harder for consumers to play the older editions.

Wotc have shown in the past that they don't give a shit about the community around older editions. &gt; it's very obvious

They've shut down 5e tools as well, most recently with the Fight Club and DM apps.  It being to "force people to 5e" is all assumption on your part.

There's plenty to get annoyed, or even mad about.  Just don't start making stuff up.  If you said something like "I think" or "they're probably", no biggie.  You're talking as if your belief is a fact, though. There isn't enough pointing to what you're claiming. If you really think WotC are being dicks about this, play Pathfinder. It's a game system so similar to D&amp;D v3.5 that most things are interchangeable. It's also produced by a company that worked with WotC for a long time until Wizards fucked them over. Dont play D&amp;D. Play something with less rules and more freedom. Something like Dungeon World or Numenera. What a damn shame.  The first time I ever played D&amp;D, my friend had me use Pathguy's 3.5 generator.  Even though I knew next to nothing about the game and had to have every single feat and skill explained to me, it was very helpful for me as I was trying to learn.  To think that future newcomers to D&amp;D won't have that resource, because making one's first character is hard, especially on paper, where it's not super obvious as to what to do next unless you have your face buried in the Player's Handbook.

Hell, even now, though I don't use it for making my player characters (because I find doing with pencil and paper to be fun), I use his Pathfinder character creator to make humanoid NPCs, because the workflow is great.  At least that one'll still be around, because Paizo is cool.

I guess, in the end, I get to feel morally justified for moving to Pathfinder over 4e/Next way back when.  For shame, Wizards.  For shame.

So, yeah, I guess if you want to get into tabletop RPGs, definitely go with Pathfinder, folks.  :P &gt; In fairness, WoTC must protect its copyrighted material. 

No, fuck that. Some podunk niche website won't topple their empire.

Anybody raring to quote copyright law at me can pound sand. This was shitty and WOTC was shitty for it. Blaming their lawyers won't change that.  Although I don't play D&amp;D (I'd like to, but I have no friends ~~interested in playing D&amp;D~~), this made me sad. Thats alright, Ill just go play pathfinder and spend my money on their books instead. What an incredibly petty and shit thing to do. Why not just divorce its terminology from all D&amp;D ties? Is it illegal to make a character generator for Fake Game of Swords?  The problem here is that the more you separate yourself from the source material, the less useful the tool is for it's intended purpose of automating that material. Add 2 stats that aren't real. Leave everything else. I doubt you'd have to alter it much.  I....

It's going to take a lot more than that. Even if all you did was rename everything, you've now distanced yourself from the audience of people that would want to use your product, while at the same time not changed enough to distance yourself from the ravenous legal teams over at Hasbro. Just adding a couple stats isn't going to change anything if you still have the same list of 50 skills. Remove those 50 skills, and again, not you're no longer offering a service that is useful for anyone. You're right. There's just no possible solution, and nobody would ever be able to find the character generator that is leagues better than the official one by word of mouth or anything. If someone were to obfuscate this generator in any fashion, such as renaming greater cleave to big chop, it would just be rendered completely useless.  Absolutely couldn't find a way to get this accomplished with even Uncle Jimbo's Funtime Word Replacer after the generator makes something that looks D&amp;D-ISH but isn't strictly D&amp;D.

I guess the only option is to close up shop completely and move on then. Jesus Christ. It's been known that WotC are shitty for a while now I thought? Not quite Games Workshop bad but still pretty lame. I dont plan on touching their overpriced broken shit ever again. Way to go on how to deal with niche hobbies. Fuck this. I use an android generator and it saves so much time its insane. What? Do they want DnD to be full of only the most hardcore players? They want the players will pay them money for subscription services. So I'd say, that's a definite, yes. What subscription services? And less players in general means less money. Wizards has their own generator, and it's a paid subscription. That's some bull. Nickle and diming gamers has creeped its way into every type of gaming it seems. How did we let this happen? :( Something for everyone to consider here...Wizards of the Coast probably isn't the one driving this. They're owned by Hasbro, which means the corporation is going to push anything that helps investors, without caring what the gamers think. I'm not defending the move, I'm pissed they're doing this, but I'm fairly certain it's coming from higher than WotC. Between this, and their lawsuit against the makers of Hex, I'm about done with this company. It'd be different if they actually put out solid platforms, but they don't. The Wizards of the Coast tool is just such garbage in comparison. Less features, buggier, less navigable. Had to use it for one campaign, and it was so clunky. [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] One more reminder that a website is a shit way to deliver software. Build it once and release it. Then if someone wants to stop you they jolly well can and can't do a damned thing about the millions of copies that are all over the world. Great. IAP's, time gates, coins and gems, etc. all turned me off mobile gaming for a long time. I still remember paying for Angry Birds once and not being harassed for power ups for level pacs, just a straight fun mobile game I could play on the bus. The thought brings a tear to my eye For me mobile gaming has become as much "gaming" as something like Blackjack. In a sense it's still a game but not really what *I* think of when I think of a game. That's the problem with mobile gaming. Some companies have stopped making games and started making systems to milk the most money from people. 

The formula seems to be to simply copy an existing game mechanic that is pretty addictive, change the graphics enough not to trigger a lawsuit, and introduce wait times that can be skipped for a small fee.

Some other tricks involve swapping out straight up purchasing your way past a time out with their own currency system, because people have a harder time equating in game currency with real world cash. And then only selling packs of their own currency in odd batches that require you to purchase multiple batches to use them all up. It's the "6 hot dogs in a tin, 8 hot dog buns in a pack" problem. 

Companies will keep doing it because it has proven to be hugely profitable. The smaller the cost of in app purchases the more likely someone is willing to pay it. What's worse was a game by halfbrick I think it was called monster dash or something, anyway, I paid 0.69p for this game, it updated and now it's a free to play game that requires energy which you can buy when you run out! I feel this is a despicable thing for a company to do to people who have already supported the game when it came out! The fuck is wrong with some mobile game devs  I remember some game by Digital Goldfish called Mining Tycoon or something like that, a simple game where you mined gold and used profits from mining to buy explosives and other supplies that let you do better as you progressed through the levels. One day they pushed out an update that erased everyone's progress and removed all the explosives and supplies, locking them behind microtransactions. It seems like they'd piss off fewer people if they just made the game unplayable, then "released" a sequel that was exactly the same but with microtransactions. But then you lose that massive customer base that you could have squeezed from. I am so cheesed about the very idea of this happening How much does a game have to change before you can get a refund?

Because that sounds pretty scummy to me. They should at least allow players who already paid for the game to keep their game exactly how they paid for it. On iOS at least, if you have a backup that you made, you can actually do so by restoring the old version of the app from iTunes to your device.  Of course, that's not a very friendly, practical or realistic solution for the average user.

And this may have changed in newer versions of iOS, but at least in iOS 6, Apple won't ever stop bugging you about updating your apps, so the Store will always have the notification icon lit up, and you can never simply use the "Update All" function again because that will naturally overwrite the old app you want to keep. Ignorable RANT follows:

my phone suffers from being extremely old by today's standards, its an andriod phone, and I had to disable all the google apps, facebook, and outlook, because they all took up too much memory space and wouldn't relinquish it for me to actually use elsewhere, so I was left with no choice but to uninstall them all, disable them from activating, all just to get basic functionality back!

now I just use it for reddit, and the browser for novels, thats all I wanted to use it for anyway, but now I don't have all those apps getting in my way.

the kicker is when I had them on they would update and use more memory space, and every time  'insuffucient memory' would be displayed... because every Single Fucking APP wanted to update on the littlest phone memory you'd ever hear of, at a whopping 512 MB....

I had a 2 gig Micro SD card in it, that it refused to use for updating apps, and I had 2 gig that the phone came with, that is not removeable, that came with the phone, THAT WAS IN THE PHONE, that android would simply not use at all for updates.

it refused to use anything other than the 512MB...

anyways, everytime I go to the playstore, and check my apps' section, there is an update all button, but thanks to my disabling the google apps, and facebook, and outlook, they don't get updated when I use the update all button!

so I got that going for me, which is nice. 

the my apps section shows me a list of all the apps I can update, and all the apps registered to my google account. so if I installed an app on another device, it'd show up there, which is useful for when I want to install reddit is fun on new android devices. I've stopped paying for App Store apps after being screwed twice. 

First, I had a video watching app that worked great, except for tons of ads. I had just gotten my first iPhone and paid for the no ads IAP. A few months later the developer created a new IAP in an attempt to make us pay to remove the ads again!

My partner and I were also heavily involved in a F2P game that I really enjoyed: you could buy in-game money for better weapons and I did that quite a bit. The game was more fun with cool weapons, but it wasn't unbalancing and there were no ads to be found. About six months later the game was sold to another company that immediately added video advertisements and I quit playing.

Finally, my partner purchased a study app that didn't indicate it required Internet access to work. She emailed Apple and never heard back regarding a refund. 

 Did you email them directly? I had a similar case and got a refund pretty quickly. I went through the purchase history through iTunes and there was an option to apply for a refund or something. Someone should try making an app, only to later update it to show a static image of a pool of runny shit, and see if Apple does anything about it. Apple doesn't release updates without reviewing them first, so they are fully aware. Fuck those dick-holes at Halfbrick! I had Jetpack Joyride and it was a lot of fun. Dropped a lot of deuces to that game. Then, sure as a sunrise, here came the in-app purchases to make sure I never played the game again. It's full of IAPs now? How bad are they? Didn't that game always have IAPs? I remember unlocking everything just by playing the game though, maybe it's changed but it wasn't too bad when I played, was just a bunch of cosmetic things and a few upgrades that were pretty cheap to buy. Once you bought the magnet upgrade you could get 1000 coins in one run. &gt; The fuck is wrong with some mobile game devs

They are just a bunch of creedy fucks and people give them money. Look at how much Clash of Clan made. Not millions but billions (not kidding).  Clash of Clans income is amazing. It's literally *millions* per day.

But I barely know anyone who buys extra gems because the game is totally playable without paying, and they give you free gems every few days.

The only theory I can come up with is that Clash of Clans is funded by impatient people.  Clash is heavily funded by the whales. (Like many F2P and mobile games) There are plenty of people who drop loads of money on it daily. Then there are the players who might only drop a couple bucks to buy those few builders. And then there are people who will gem a few buildings every now and then to speed their progress. It adds up quick.

Personally haven't spent a cent, and it's fun at times but the game feels more and more like a chore the higher you get. Oh man, even worse than that are paid games that's have IAPs. Kairosoft has [this](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=net.kairosoft.android.pirate_en) 
It's paid, it has ads, and there's in-app purchases. It's a freemium game that is missing the sole benefit of freemium: **it ain't free.**
Furthermore, I found this particularly distasteful is that ads can be paid to remove. **AS A MONTHLY SUBSCRIPTION.**

And that is what I call a crock of shit

Edit: I'm getting downvoted

https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=net.kairosoft.android.pirate_en

Here's the game. 

http://i.imgur.com/GxkBxjZ.jpg

Here's a screen shot

They really truly are doing this.

Edit2: At computer, able to format properly. Damn, Kairosoft was one of those devs that made games with no IAPs. Shame. Really?  Which Kairosoft game is this, and for what platform?  I play Kairosoft games pretty avidly, and the only games I've seen with IAPs or ads were the free ones... High sea saga for android. Not sure if it's for iOS too. 

Came out a couple weeks ago. I guess its not *that* weird when you think about it. If you pay for a magazine, it still has ads in. If you pay for some cable TV stations, they still have ads, and after buying a movie ticket, they have ads before the movie, and sell you popcorn. Maybe we are the last to be milked for extras? :D Reminds me of New Star Soccer. Used to be 69p or so for the career mode and it had a few IAPs but nothing big and now it's F2P and littered with them feeling like they're almost necessary to just play now.  And they ruined the soundtrack. Replaced it with generic happy music. That also happened to a game called new star soccer. Before I could play the game without any barriers and it was all good, then they put out an update changing it to ftp, which tries to gauge you for money in order to progress. Needless to say I've not played it since :( All of their games are unplayable now. It sad to see such promising company sell out and become crap.  Whale Trail did the same, I'm still pissed off coz I used to play it every single train ride, then out of nowhere I was forced into updating and having to earn points to spend to get my guy as strong as he was before the forced update. 

Then to rub salt in the wound, they re-released the old version under a different name "classic!" and a higher price. I hate it. I'll find a game that looks like a mobile version of sim city, but its like "oh your building will take five days to build, good thing you can speed it up for a dollar!" Fuck that shit I don't see how anyone falls for that at all. It's not like the building is bound by physics to take that long to build and the company that made the game is doing you a service by speeding it up. It's such an obvious money grab, yet people eat it up. 

The irony is that in many cases there is a near-identical (likely better) version of the game online that you can play for free. People are actually paying for nothing. Have you watched the 'Game Theory' episode on addictive games? It covers the whole thing really well.

Basically, they are made to get you hooked as quickly as possible. They use well known game mechanics like Bejeweledor tic-tac-toe. They are easy to get into, and are really awarding in the beginning. Because you win so easily, your brain sends out a lot of dopamine, a neurotransmitter that makes you feel good, which makes you hooked to the game.

When your brain reaches a high amount of dopamine, the game will stop you from playing more. They do this by making you wait for a thing to complete, extra energy/lives to regenerate, new tasks to apear, etc. 

Just like when you eat a piece of candy and are craving for yet another piece because the last one was just sooo good; your brain wants to play more to keep the dopamine level high. Because of the interuption, your brain still eants more, thus making you addicted to playing the game again.

These IAPs are like buying a new back of candy from the shop, becauce you have an urge for more but don't have any at home. I don't know if a lot of American/European games are like this, but in Japan, they couple what you describe with elements of gambling. People get hooked on the game, pay to play, pay to get points that lets them get random 'rare' cards/weapons/characters/monsters/etc. 

I really hate to see classic series like Final Fantasy go down this road... :(

If reddit has a list of games with traditional payment systems, I'd like to know.  Oh, yeah, we have those too. They're called [hats.](https://wiki.teamfortress.com/wiki/Cosmetic_items) Oh yeah I forgot about these. I thought you got them through accomplishments.  Some of them. Most are random drops. For anyone who's about to look up the channel: his jokes and general mannerisms are pretty annoying IMO but his points are worth it. &gt;6 hot dogs in a tin

Wait, what. What do you mean, "tins"? A tin is a can. Something like [this.](http://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/1/11/Konservendose-1.jpg)

The are called that because they were sealed off with a tin based alloy back in the day.  
From Wikipedia:  
&gt; Early tin cans were sealed by soldering with a tin-lead alloy, which could lead to lead poisoning. I'm aware of what a tin is. The bit that got me was the fact that apparently hot dogs come in them. There are so many great games without in app purchases. Here is a hint, stop downloading the ones that do have them... &gt; That's the problem with mobile gaming. Some companies have stopped making games and started making systems to milk the most money from people. 

This is the inevitable result of taking what is ultimately a creative endeavor (game design) and putting it into an environment where it has to compete and be profitable.

If you don't want this, you have to find some way to keep game developers fed whether they make a 'profitable' game or not. Otherwise it will *always* devolve into anti-consumer milking. That's just how competition works. At what point in history has being profitable not entered into making a commercial game? Well, it really comes down to what the consumer will choose to spend money on. Right now IAP and exploiting the dopamine cycle is very effective, but over time people are going to partially wise up to that and it will evolve.

As a loosely correlated example, look how ridiculous TV advertising in the 50s was. Most of the stuff they did then people would not fall for now, or would even outright laugh at.

I don't think it will ever be great, but it should get better.

&gt;If you don't want this, you have to find some way to keep game developers fed whether they make a 'profitable' game or not.

This sounds very hard, but not impossible. The only solution I can see is something akin to the patronage system of yore (Kickstarter is a big step in this direction). Problem with Kickstarter is it's a bit of a one-off system right now. To really have great games you need people to be able to have sustained success making them. I see it less like Blackjack, and more like one of those timeshare pitches where they promise you free tickets to Disneyland if you sit through the whole thing. So you're just there for a miniscule fun bit, but they're never going to stop hounding you for cash.  This is the significant point to me.  Microtransactions get all the heat, but the tragedy of mobile gaming is that most of them just aren't any good.

 They are definitely skirting gambling.  If you want to change that perception in both gamers and developers, there's only 1 way: support developers. Buy the games on the lists that you're interested in. Plants vs. Zombies 1 was one of the best games ever.  

PvZ 2 is a terrible shell of a game that just doesn't capture the same feel as the original PvZ did.  

I just wish we got an actual sequel to PvZ.  

Same thing happened with Dungeon Keeper, Rollercoaster Tycoon, etc. It's hard to compare because of how much the game got updated and redesigned, but the vanilla release version was quite good imo. All the "paid" plants were overpowered and unbalanced, so who cares? They were just cheating pay to win.

All the coins and the uh.. super moves or whatever they were called were basically just you failing at the game and needing a panic button. If you needed to use them it was because your technique sucked. Some challenges were brutally hard and not really completable at the point in time, but it made more sense once you would revisit worlds after you unlocked the later plants to beat them. Game wasn't linear in how you had to tackle worlds.

The gates were basically just Super Mario 64 star doors, you needed enough stars/keys in the missions to get past and there were more than plenty. You would get way more than ever required. You could unlock the whole main path with a fairly decent completion of the first world and some of the second. Not all of the side paths really needed to be unlocked as you went either.

I 100%'ed the game without ever using a special power, or feeling the need to pay a cent. The game was incredibly balanced and much more challenging. Unlike the first game, it forced you to develop completely different techniques in order to beat the challenges. Way more variety, and pretty much every plant had a specific purpose so you couldn't fall into the same team every time.

I haven't felt the need to revisit it, but they unhinged all the balance at this point. Too much focus on the microtransactions and they've tinkered way too much with progression. I felt very annoyed by the coin and panic button system. Like you, I tried to go through the whole game without them, and succeeded. But with recent updates, some levels (especially daily mission-things) are simply impossible without paid plants or panic buttons. So I end up pressing one of the panic buttons, and since I never use them it costs me almost nothing. But it's still annoying, because I cheated. I could beat any level in the game with the bullshit buttons if I wanted, but I don't WANT to! Some of the daily events screw you too hard, you need the power ups. also that beach was insane. Every single enemy in the beach is designed to fuck you over, i found it seriously impossible to complete the beach without either extra plants or power ups.
 I recently got back into PvZ2 after having tried it out last year. I could tell the game had gotten way to hard to play as is. I felt like I was being mugged at knife point. Fuck that.    At least garden warfare is pretty good.  RCT2 is amazing, its a refined version of the RCT1. The 3rd is the horrible shell of the game with graphics that don't match the art style and weird gameplay .  he/she talking about RCT4 on ios no idea that even existed.  Bless your soul. It's absolute atrocious. Are you sure? I've heard good things about RCT3. Are you thinking of the freemium one, RCT4? 3 isn't awful but it's nowhere near as good as 1 or 2. The only thing it really has going for it is a first person "ride the ride" view.  1 and 2 are vastly superior games overall, though, IMO. That's why I've bought all my mobile games from HumbleBundle. AFAIK, there isn't one that has microtransactions and virtually every one of them is an excellent game in its own right. Humble mobile bundles have all been awesome, proves that there are still mobile games worth playing I don't even bother looking for mobile games elsewhere. I have yet to play a game acquired through a Humble Mobile Bundle that I didn't really enjoy. There is a Cartoon Network bundle right now. Pretty sure Ghost Toasters is riddled with IAP. Not long ago there was a bundle with Doodle God, which has timegates. There are tons of games in humble mobile bundles with IAPs. There are also games that have less content than the app store version, such as the bridge builder game. And in general, when games get app store updates, which sometimes provide new content, that patch never goes out to the humble owners.  Angry Birds is amazing. 99 cents, all future updates free, many hours wasted. Truly one of the great casual games of our time. Couldn't agree more - however on the other hand you have a large outcry and angry reviews when the developers of Monument Valley dare to charge for an expansion of their highly regarded and reasonably priced game. I remember when Crush The Castle was free, and then Angry Birds copied it and made *billions* of dollars. If Crush the Castle was available on a touch device, where this kind of gameplay feels way more intuitive (and is a great example of actually a game taking advantage of touch controls instead of trying to badly replicate the controls of another platform) and had a design and style that was widely appealing, then it would too have made billions of dollars.

Before Angry Birds Rovio was a small indie studio making mostly unsuccessful mobile games. Angry Birds succeeded because it did all the right things. The gaming industry is full of big successes that brought nothing really new, yet what they do they do it right.

If there is *any* game you may want to pick on, Angry Birds isn't that. It is mobile gaming done right, even if isn't everyone's cup of tea. Angry Birds didn't make billions because of its gameplay Oh come on that genre was being copied for years. If you actually went on miniclip or new grounds in the years before angry birds you would see hundreds of clones. These things are usually gamified in a way that you can either grind for a reasonable amount of time or pay real money to unlock stuff in a desktop free to play game.

Meanwhile in shitty mobile games like Clash of Clans, the concept becomes purely pay to win.

It's the size and lucrative nature of the mobile market that lets companies like Supercell get away with shit like a pay-to-win ranked ladder in an 'MMO' strategy game. You know something is up when you see ungodly amounts of money being spent on advertising a "free" product. Yeah, the Super Bowl ads were crazy, and then they would show some of the actual game and I would just shake my head. &gt; Meanwhile in shitty mobile games like Clash of Clans, the concept becomes purely pay to win.

Clash of Clans is very playable without paying though, and the ranking system means strong people eventually get matched with other strong players - whether or not those strong players paid or played to get to that level.  

I think they make money from impatient people, rather than "pay to win" people.

I'm actually pretty happy that lots of people pay so I can play this game for free. :) &gt; turned me off 

It's the worst place to buy videogames - the entire market is bullshit. Not really. There are great games like Hitman Go, Monument Valley and the Room that give you a good experience for a few dollars and don't harp on you to buy expendable items. They do provide additional content for a small price, though, and that's cool.

IAP is not bad. A lot of the common strategies are bad. Goddamn The Room 2 is so fucking good Hitman Go is so fuckign great.  It does take time to research and find the real gems in the sea of copy-paste crap that is the appstore/googleplay.  I am SO ready for the microtransaction train to derail. I have no issue with expansions to games or apps, that's always been around, but this concept of downloading a game for free which you can only realistically play by spending WELL over the amount the game could even possibly be worth is ridiculous.

That said, there are cases where microtransactions are acceptable, so it's not a totally bunk idea. The irony is I did buy a fair amount of apps before the microtransaction craze kicked in. At the time, I knew that whatever I bought (whether I liked it or not) was it. If I bought some utility or game, I dont have to second guess .... "ooooh I need to pay 2 dollars to actually use X feature" (but there are 20 other X features you may have wanted).

I have bought almost nothing over the past couple of years since. same here! when those Halo and God of War clones came out in 3D on iphone/ipod I was fucking stoked. I didn't enjoy the fact that they were knockoffs and the gameplay was pretty bland, but it was a glimpse into what could be in a year or two. Felt so promising.  

Instead we got a microtransaction minefield and I haven't gamed on it since (except for the really highly regarded titles like monument valley and sword and sworcery).

P.S. Check out this vid: http://www.ign.com/videos/2013/04/24/iphone-garbage-super-monster-bros-by-adventure-time-pocket-free-games /watches the vid

Oh fucken wow. Is that real? That within seconds into starting the app and you get a quick pop up to pay $49.99 or $99.99? It's shit like this that made me not want to buy any apps at all, because you never can trust what the hell you are downloading! It'll happen, and it'll happen in the next few years. The next big get-rich-quick fad that publishers latch onto, be it massive DLC hounds (Evolve) or microtransactions or fee-to-pay games... they'll grip it tighter than a monkey grips a cliffside branch. And then they'll hurl it at us faster and faster until the market spits it back in their face, and the publishers realise they've just gone a little too far. Like when THQ hit the rogue wind that was the consumer revolt and went into a tailspin before going out of business, or when Activision realised that selling five different guitar heros a year *was just a little bit too much.*

[All of this has happened before, and it will happen again and again and again.](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6bOy3RNyWME) &gt;fee-to-play

Is that a typo or an actual term? Because I really want that to be a thing. I could be off, but I really feel like South Park exposed the freemium model in a way that made people consider what they were getting. Sure, a lot of *us* knew about the design flaws of the freemium models, but South Park made it so that people like my parents were now aware of that type of crap. 

My parents are the type of people that will buy the whole brand if they are marketed to correctly, but now with the new perspective presented to them, I've yet to see my mom play candy crush since.

Completely anecdotal, but it's just my two cents. Micro transactions are following a similar lineage to arcades.

The idea of tricking players into giving more and more money isn't new. 

It's just a shame that the game quality doesn't always seem to back up the costs At least those games were fun back on the time of arcades. This is just ridiculous. That's a really good point. It's disturbing that even Blizzard have started going down that road with their recent Pay-To-Progress games. &gt;I am SO ready for the microtransaction train to derail.

This train won't derail anytime soon because the only alternative is for mobile games to be priced in the $20-$50 range. People freak out if a game costs $4.99 I was over this before it even came out.  I remember reading a sci fi novel in the early 00s where there was an mmo-game that required players to pay for stats.  I was simultaneously disgusted and sure it would happen sooner or later.  Then Bethesda tried to sell a horse in Oblivion and it was a disaster, and I was happy that common sense prevailed.  But it wasn't long before it became commonplace. 

The idea of pay to win runs counter to everything good about gaming.  It's like paying extra to skip to the end of a movie at a theatre.  It makes no fucking sense. I don't mind microtransactions that are actually micro. When Apple first demo'd their IAP system in 2009, most of their examples were less than 1 USD.

A lot of people hated this with a passion but I thought it was pretty cool. I've paid a dollar for 15 minutes of invincibility and 40 cents for a few more lives and I still don't regret my purchases even though I've not played those games in years.

Now games are charging me $25+ to skip 6 hours of time gating. That's not a microtransaction, that's just a transaction and a poor value one at that. I wish there was a middle ground where Apple would clearly delineate games with consumable IAP, rather than games with any IAP at all.

With my own app I decided to make the main game free with extra modes unlocked via IAP which is a fair model IMO, but in doing so I'm lumped into the category (in people's minds anyway) that includes all the money-grabbing apps with in-game currency. ya the telltale games fall under this category since you can play the first part for free but have to pay for the rest of the game with iap Hell yeah.  I completely quit playing iOS games because it was nearly impossible to find one that wasn't laced with IAP.  This is a great message that Apple is sending to developers. There's still plenty of decent games on the App Store with no IAPs. I also don't mind free games that the only IAP is the option to spend $2 to remove the ads. That's cool with me.  I agree that there are a lot of good games out there with no IAP, but they are just a pain to find.  Apple's new 'pay once' category is a step in the right direction. Geometry dash lite is cool like that in that it has ads and a little over half the total levels(which is still a lot) and they keep updating and adding to it. What do you mean when you say "laced with IAPs"? Like all games that have IAPs in them, or just games like Clash of Clans, Game of War, Farmville, and other games that have a Coin/Gem system? I feel like most games have some sort of IAPs attached to them. Whenever I look for a game on the App store, I feel like I end up sifting through a ton of garbage until I can find one with no IAPs. Trying looking someplace with professional reviews rather than on the app store. Appshopper.com includes price history and links to reviews (only from toucharcade and 148apps though). PocketTactics.com has really good reviews although they don't cover everything. No, they only cover games worth paying attention to :) I trust that those are good websites, but it's more effort than I'm willing to put forth to find an iOS app.  I just want to open the app store every now and then, buy whatever is popular with good reviews, and trust that it won't try to take more money from me later on. Check out PocketTactics :).  I searched but didn't find PocketTactics, any chance you could send a link? http://www.pockettactics.com/ Thanks very much It's a website - pockettactics.com i think monument valley's expansion is an 'in-app purchase' so it may not show up on the list but you should check that out! Maybe they're just testing the waters on this, but what this leads the optimist in me to suspect is that the general distaste for exploitative "freemium" design is spreading beyond the Internet enthusiast crowd. Perhaps we're approaching a critical mass where the majority are willing to say "enough is enough!" when it comes to these shady practices. The cynic in me says this is wishful thinking. &gt; the general distaste for exploitative "freemium" design is spreading beyond the Internet enthusiast crowd.

It was a major part of South Park's most recent season. The sad thing is,  there's nothing *inherently* wrong with the freemium or F2P models,  but the way they're often implemented is so lazy. 

Like,  in the last year Nintendo started experimenting with F2P on the 3DS.  Both titles were interesting and managed to provide fun for free players with very open no-bullshit policies about what's available for purchase.  One of them even took the interesting route of allowing players to haggle with an NPC over the cost of upgrades. 

Nothing says F2P *must* be a scam.  But so few devs seem interested in trying to find fair balances of game vs money.  &gt;The sad thing is, there's nothing inherently wrong with the freemium or F2P models, but the way they're often implemented is so lazy.

The word you're looking for is _effective_. If those F2P systems didn't work, people wouldn't use them. Except they're only effective in very limited circumstances.   Have you seen the churn rate on F2P games?   Most of them have little more life expectancy than a fruit fly. 

When a business model only makes money for a small percentage of companies who try it,  and fails for nearly everyone else, that's a pretty clear indicator that the business model can be improved.  Especially when there are other ways of doing it that are more player-friendly and provide more value for the buyers. 

The current popular F2P model is lowest-common-denominator pandering to well-known psychological tricks.   It might make a little money off low-information buyers, but it drives away anyone who can see through the tricks. 

 I agree.

I really hope that the F2P model will evolve into something more palatable, or, preferably, just die quickly. Considering that, more or less, the "F2P model" has been around since the golden age of radio, I honestly doubt it's going to go away.  People would rather *not* pay for content if they can avoid it, and they've continually shown a willingness to put up with ads in various forms as a tradeoff.

I'm sure it's going to keep evolving, though.  What we're seeing right now is all the low-hanging fruit getting grabbed.  

Personally, I'd have no problem with the "sponsorship" model coming back.   Something like "Colgate Presents Mass Effect IV."  Or whatever.  Hell, that'd be a great way to pay for episodic games like Telltale does.  After all, some Soap Operas ran for decades usually thanks to single-source sponsorship.

(For that matter, I'm sure that the two 'Poker Night' games literally paid for themselves since they were also openly plugging the various properties represented.) I was referring to the current skinner box type of F2P model with IAP. 

It's interesting to see how various governments react to this stuff, also. Japan has a big issue with the gacha-type F2P mechanics and have put a stop to it.

The sponsorship model is something I hadn't considered. Interesting. &gt; If those F2P systems didn't work, people wouldn't use them.

People use them hoping to get rich quick. For the vast majority, it doesn't work. Seems like it's more or less gambling from the developer's perspective: spend some money developing a shitty game and either make nothing back or have it go viral and make a fortune. True. Same thing happened to Facebook games (remember how quickly those fizzled out?)

Mobile F2P games will probably evolve into something else, it can't all rest on a Clash of Clans type of monetizing model where a tiny percentage makes all the money. If only there was some way games like Monument Valley appeared here.  It has one IAP, an add-on which expands the base game a lot.  Though I'm glad they're implementing it! Nice! I remember when you could actually just download a free game and never have it ask you to spend money on a premium version or IAPs. So rare nowadays.  There's a reason they're so rare. The people who make them make them just because. There's almost no way to actually make money off of those apps. It's kind of a double-edged sword because if you find a legitimately free game you like, you'll probably never see a sequel or anything again.

I actually feel like the premium/lite game deal is probably the best solution that can still earn the developer some money. When it's done right, that is.

There's all sorts of economic reasons for in-app purchases on mobile though. People are generally unwilling to spend more than 1-2$ on *anything* on mobile even if the game could technically "deserve" it. More or less, people who play on mobile devices have pretty much forced it on themselves. Yep, this is very true. I'm about to release my first mobile game for $1 on the app store/free on android, and was constantly told that it will never make any money. The statistics show that free, easy to digest games where you pay to win/advance quicker make the most money.

And I understand the temptation, because everyone wants their hard work to pay off.

But my development partner and I don't like it when games do that, so we're willing to go against the grain in exchange for keeping the game "pure". I dunno, my belief is that game developers who actually make games to bring fun to their audience instead if going for a cash grab is going to get more loyal fans over the long run. Then everyone wins. I wish more people saw it that way.

And yeah I'm scared to charge more than a dollar. Although its probably a reasonable price point for a lot of games, mine included, the sheer number of 99 apps starts to train your brain to think $2 is a lot for a mobile game. Not even sure it will make back the costs of the development licenses, but I really hope it does. What's your game called? Sadly I can't buy it for 99 cents if it's free for Android but I'm still interested  It's called Postal Slime. Reddit has weird rules about linking your own content too much, but our website is super easy to find with Google (it's the same name as the game) or check my post history. Right now you can play the beta test build if you have Android. We'd love feedback if you have the chance to try it out!

And don't feel sad. It's free because we want people to play it! The price for the app store is mostly because you have to pay a developer license fee to be able to publish with Apple, and I want to see if I can make that money back. A little experiment I guess :) You just brought something to my mind.  Idea.  Be a scumbag and make a cashgrab-esque game; a mind numbing time game.  Make a tad bit of capital.  THEN, make a sequel to that first game, but instead of it being mindnumbing, make it great as you describe you want to make a game like. 

Or, one could just make a game, release it for a dollar, and hope all goes well.  Or, even, make it free, and just place the ads at proper times.  For example, zigzag, a new fad game, has the ad fill the entire screen very quickly after a round.  In the hour total I've played it, I've probably clicked on the ads 5-6 times.  There are four million players.  6x4= 24 million ad impressions (assuming everyone clicked on the ads six times, and only played for one hour).  That's potentially quite a bit of money for those developers for a free game. This is why, every time I catch myself thinking a game is too expensive, I have to ask myself: What if I was buying it for PC? I mean, think of XCOM. I'd honestly pay full price for that game.

A 15$ or even 10$ game being considered expensive seems bad for both consumers and developers. That's why I like what Square Enix is doing on mobile. They're not afraid to release a premium product for a premium price. While I like that they're releasing games for actual game prices instead of $1-2 + IAP, I DON'T like that they're charging $12-16 for ports of old games. It's the same reason I hate Nintendo's virtual console. These prices are way too high to pay to emulate a game that came out like 20+ years ago. It's hard for me to decide whether to be annoyed with them or not.  On the one hand, I can't help but think they're spending way too many resources to repeatedly port games that have been out for a couple decades onto new systems, when people could just play them on an emulator or something.  On the other hand, people are still buying them, so obviously there's a market.

I just don't feel like they should get to charge a premium price for porting something with the same fidelity as RPG Maker onto a new platform. They're actually cheaper than buying the physical copies of those old games nowadays. What if I already have a copy of the older game and the only thing I'm paying for is the convenience of not carrying around some device that can play GBA games (which all the early FFs were ported to)? [Really?](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Final_Fantasy_All_the_Bravest) Fuck ATB. I can't think of a single company who doesn't have at least one bad stain. Yeah, that's one game that fucked up, but that hardly proves a rule. [Look at how many mobile games they've published.](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_Square_Enix_mobile_games) There was an IGN review that just lambasted the game.

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5mYd12L4iE4

Spot on. i guess that game sucked. but they have also released most of the ds and psp final fantasy games on mobile st slightly reduced prices. these are full 40 hour rpgs on mobile. I feel like the best solution is what games like Xbox One's Killer Instinct and the mobile version of Turbo Dismount did, which is to sell what is basically a demo for free, and then let the player either buy the game piecemeal or just buy the whole thing outright. I don't personally have a problem with that either. Thing is, too many people see stuff like that as "In-App Purchases! OMG." It's the same thing with DLCs really. There are companies with good DLC/IAP practices, but people like to lump everything in with the negatives and refuse to buy anything at all. Flappy bird made lots of money with just ads.


I could handle adds in an *actually free* mobile game. Flappy Bird is a highly rare case. Normally developers make pennies of ads without a humongous user base. Often times ads are just implemented to encourage the user to buy the no ads IAP.  To make money off of only ads you need a very large userbase.  Economy of scale I think it's called?

It worked for things like Angry Birds (on Android) and Flappy Bird because those apps were downloaded literally millions of times.

For your average developer striking it big like that is like winning the lottery.  Very small chance, even with marketing. No economies of scale is where production of a product (eg a car) is cheaper when a large quantity of this product are being produced.  That's because Flappy Bird, due to some fluke (PewDiePie probably kickstarted it) shot to the top downloaded list and stayed number one for something like more than a month. The chances of getting that many users is very slim, so most devs releasing free games have to take advantage of bullshit time gates or "gems" and other stuff that prey on human's unlimited wants are the only way to get a decent amount of cash from a less-than-huge user base. Yeah. Generally falls into the free/premium split. Version with ads for free and a version without ads for like 3-4$. That's great for you but the developer makes nothing. So why would they keep making those games? Ad revenue? But what if I like the game and would like to pay an IAP for $5 to remove the adds. Then it will become stigmatized just for having an IAP even though it's not deceptive or exploitative. This actually blocks out a lot of other ethical IAPs for the same reason, for example cosmetics. Have a lite version and a paid version of the game? Think of it like YouTube. Sure, large YouTubers (like PewDiePie, Smosh, etc.) make literally millions per year (just like the equivalent apps such as Flappy Bird), but the average Joe who is just starting out is going to barely scrape a hundred bucks a month. IAP's are bullshit, but having to buy the premium version is fine. Developers need to make money, and I appreciate having the 'lite' version of a game to play, which is really no different than a demo, and then being able to buy the full game if I really liked it. Nothing shady with that business practice, and developers should just stick to this and stay away from IAP's. Demos rarely, if ever, help a developer make money. Often they will cause more harm than good. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7QM6LoaqEnY Not so much the case when it comes to mobile games. Lite versions of games can increase sales for paid apps. This was the exact case with Angry Birds, which saw mediocre sales when it was just a paid app, but blew up when the lite version was released. It's all about exposure. Well they have to monetize it somehow. Some games have a lot of development put into them.

Granted, there are a plethora of games that take IAP's way OTT. Energy systems for example are a complete money grabber, and they need to be removed from all games.

Literally "pay us more money now if you want to continue playing... otherwise wait 24/48/72 hours" utterly ridiculous.

But there are a few rare games out there that either offer vanity items (like Fun Runner - I think it's called that -) or just offer other in game items that don't inherently break the game.

Games that offer an ad-free premium version, possibly adding more levels and content are also welcome in my book. 

But even those are few and rare to find. 

Games need to learn from others like FTL. Genuinely original products that you pay for and have hours upon hours of fun.

All these city builder clones, are just a complete waste of time.  These aren't free games. They're paid games that don't have IAPs. "Pay once and play". This is good! Although looking through the list I'm a bit embarrassed to say I own a good number of these already. Some of them I've purchased twice, once on PC and once on iOS. "You mean I can take this game with me everywhere!?"  Nothing to be embarrassed about. Some of these mobile games are super fun. Some of them fit the medium far better than they would on a PC or Console too. I love it when the game is designed around the device I'm using, rather than trying to make a console like experience shoe-horned into a mobile app. Threes and Leo's Fortune are both quite good. I love-hate Threes. It's just not a game I can wrap my mind around. But yeah, games like Republique, or the Room, or even Little Inferno frankly blow my mind. Compared to, I don't know, Limbo, the gameplay just works. Though I actually prefer FTL on mobile.

I've bought Leo's Fortune but haven't gotten around to playing (... or downloading) it yet. I probably should!  I wish FTL wasn't just iPad though. I've got tons of hours of that on my laptop.  but it would be impossible with the extremely small screen for a game like that. Us Android owners are dearly missing out. It would be really nice to be able to search specifically for games with no In app-purchases (or energy systems) rather than looking at games that interest you, only to find they have most of the content locked behind paywalls. Even some paid apps are guilty of this. The games with ridiculous wait times that can only be overcome with in game currency irk me the most ( I'm looking at you dungeon keeper) why cant i just pay a reasonable price for a complete game (like on every other platform), rather than getting it for "free" and having to pay hundreds of dollars to complete it in a reasonable timeframe. I think the main problem is that Phones are the only gaming platform where most of the users are unfamiliar with the gaming industry. Most Reddit users (especially on r games) know what games are like and how they're marketed. We have something to compare shitty phones games to.

Most of the people who buy those games are older people who want something to do on their phones. I'm sure most of them are irked by IAP, but they don't care enough to make a fuss about it. Nor do they have the perspective to see how stupid it is.  Great news, I would rather pay $5, $10 even $20 for a great game (Heroes 3 for example). 

When I am looking for games, any that have in app purchases I won't install.

Hope to see more of this change in mobile gaming in the future. Nope. Not happening. The majority of consumers eat freemiums stuffs like there was no yesterday. The market is already broken when consumer not willing to budge from $1 average price per app vs high cost of development for actually good games.

Why bother developing for the small number of consumers that willing to pay $5 for a good mobile game (and let your app be pirated as fuck) when you can do something far lesser than that plus requiring even fewer efforts and receive better revenue from freemiums whales as the rest of the market?

Simple economic forces at work. You can demand your good game, but developers who gotta eat and live easily laugh at your demands and cater to the majority of the market.

Seriously, the mobile market is already fucked up when app minimum prices is set to $1. Want to see quality? Increase the minimum price to say, something like $4+ and only allow lower prices during specific AppStore/PlayStore-wide sales period.

Currently, there's no realistic incentive for small studios to make good mobile game unless: 

1. You're willing to bear every risk for bankrupting yourself
2. You don't mind the development taking a very loooong time
3. Everybody in your project agrees to #1 and #2

Bigger studios don't have this risk and can easily absorb the whole development risk. For the rest of us developers, we just have to do what we gotta do to live. The only good in-app purchases I've ever seen on an app come from the Marathon ports.

The Marathon games themselves are absolutely free to play, built off the Aleph One engine, and considering the games were released from 1994-1996, there is no grinding or anything. You can enjoy the single player as you wish.

There are only three in-app purchases in the games, all $.99 (except for a $1.99 one I think). The first is an HD mode, which is basically a retexturing of each of the game's levels to be sharper in appearance. The second is a reticule pack, which adds unique reticules to each weapon in the game. The third is called Master Chief Mode, which is priced a little higher than the other two at $1.99, but allows the player to give themselves all the weapons, maximum ammo, fully replenish shields, and save anywhere. The game can be fully enjoyed without these, but they add on to the gameplay in a fun way.

Considering the ports were all done by a single fan working in his free time off of work, I've bought all these IAPs for each game to support him. These are some of my favorite games on the iOS platform, even if the game occasionally crashes. Wait, that wasn't a Bungie game? If they didn't get Bungie's permission, correct me if I'm wrong, but that sounds very illegal. Aleph One is open source. Same idea like Vulture for Nethack on Steam.

http://source.bungie.org

http://store.steampowered.com/app/341390/ So what are everyone's recommendations from the list?

I'll start

- KOTOR and X-COM are games I actually much prefer on my iPad than I do my PC

- Oceanhorn is a BEAUTIFUL Zelda clone (not inspired by...very nearly as close to a clone of LoZ as you can get) featuring music by Nobuo Uematsu (of Final Fantasy fame) and has controller support! If you're jailbroken purchase Controllers4All on Cydia to use a Wii U Pro Controller or Dual Shock3/4 with it as well.

And those are all I've had time to get to. I also purchased Banner Saga and Final Fantasy 6, but haven't had much time to get to them. Does Android already have this? I was put off of mobile gaming somewhere back in 2009/10 and never bothered to check again. It's all well and good...but what would annoy me is if you pay for one of these apps on the premise that there won't be any IAPs and then they change their mind 3 months later and implement them. There needs to be some kind of guarantee system in place for this to be effective. IIRC, Apple reviews these products whenever they are updated so I would think they'd put the app into another category or something those lines. But if you buy one of them right now, and it's updated in a week to add IAP there's nothing you can do about it at the moment. Nobody cares, but these are some of my personal favorites when it comes to IAPless iOS games:

- GTA: Chinatown Wars - Not as good as, say, San Andreas (which is too, along with GTA 3 and GTA: Vice City, completely IAPless), but the controls are far better since CW was designed to be a mobile game.
- Minecraft - Do I need to explain it?
- Threes - A simple yet difficult puzzle, perfect for filling short commutes or queues.
- Terraria - Like a 2D Minecraft I started playing in PC. It translates OK to mobile.
- Ridiculous Fishing - A stylish game about fishing and shooting fish in the air.
- Canabalt - The original? endless runner. Tap to jump and that's it.
- Pixelogic - Like Mario Picross. Remember Mario Picross? I love it.
- Sudoku+ - The best (IMHO) sudoku app in the App Store.
- Thomas Was Alone - Beautiful minimalistic game that makes you care about squares and rectangles.
- Goblin Sword - Side-scrolling plataformer with light RPG elements like different swords, powers and armor. Thank GOD! I've been looking through the iOS Store and been so disappointed with all the In-App Purchases option games. I just can't trust them. I just play them and wait for them to cut me off from playing the game anymore.  I am all with apple on this, but the fact that this was introduced is appalling and it just shows the ruined state of the moblie games market. The worst part is that this has already started to make its way over to normal pc/console gaming, honestly, im really worried about gaming. Its quite a sad state of affairs when we have to "celebrate" something so seemingly standard in older titles. A nice effort, regardless. To be fair, video games started off with the options of extremely expensive home consoles or continuously paying money to keep playing at arcades. Now that we have games on cell phones that everyone already has already they needed to find a new way to monetize it.  On that note, I want to very highly recommend Auro [http://www.auro-game.com/] as a $3 title that's brand new (after a long development cycle) with a ton of depth and no bullshit shenanigans, and continued support by the developer. Yes, definitley one of the best games in the store. I made an r/games thread about it [a few days ago](http://www.reddit.com/r/Games/comments/2uvynd/auro_a_monsterbumping_adventure_coming_very_soon/). [Imgur](http://i.imgur.com/Jq3GYY7.jpg)

My dev team just released the innovative super repayable tactics game, Auro. In just a few days,  it was featured on "best new games," but look! One of these things is not like the other! It's the ONLY paid app on the list. Hopefully this is a good sign that we're all finally getting wise to the slimy f2p model. While it's an honor to be on the list, it's crazy that it was the only paid app.  Absolutely fantastic. This is a great move by Apple. I might finally start picking up more iOS games. 

Shoutout to /r/iosgaming as well. I feel like app sales are going to end up crashing the way game consoles and their respective games did.  The whole "consumer-losing-confidence" thing. This is great, the first couple years after the app store came out there was a lot of fun little games that didn't empty your wallet.  So what are some good mobile games without in app purchases? I don't think I've opened the app store besides for Instagram,  Twitter, etc. in years. I said this in another thread related to this but I feel it's true:

Am I happy that the company more responsible than anyone else for creating micro transactions has a section dedicated towards normal games and gets praised for it? No.

Not to solely place the blame with Apple, but Apple did setup the environment for these kinds of apps/developers to thrive.  I disliked it when it was first setup and I dislike it now.  It was obvious even then that over time a market like that would rot. possibly damage control? At least they notice that their app store will be a heap of shit that no one wanna use. I like this emerging trend of removing scores. They provide very little information about the game itself. For example, how do 89 point and 88 point games differ from each other?

"Recommended", "essential" and "avoid" tell a much better story than 80 points, 90 points and 30 points. Alas, those words in the eyes of metacritic will simply just mean the latter numbers, instead. They've got their own "interpretation" of what review scores actually mean, eg 4/5 means 80% etc..

I'm glad Eurogamer has dropped them though. If more sites follow suit, then it'll finally bring an end to the metacritic madness the games industry has been keeling over trying to satisfy for the last 10 years or so.

[Edit: for the people moaning at me saying 4/5 actually does mean 80%, read Smilge's post for why this simply isn't the case in the context of metacritic scoring](https://www.reddit.com/r/Games/comments/2vek8n/eurogamer_has_dropped_review_scores/coh0vt8) Metacritic has always used scoreless reviews as part of their aggregate, they just assign scores to reviews based on their vibe of the article. Interesting. I assume they work on a scale from 7-10 like most other reviewers? Most reviewers work on a scale from 1-10. It's just that most sites don't even bother to review most of the shovelware trash that would get a lower score. Which is just as nonsensical. If 1-6 all mean avoid then who cares about the distinction? No they routinely give mediocre games that deserve a 5 a 7 instead, so as to not piss off the publisher and risk not getting exclusives in the future. They've given games that you think deserve a 5 a 7. Reviews are always subjective. And most game publishers wouldn't even release a game that would qualify as a 1.

People shouldn't expect review scores of any product to follow a normal distribution with the peak in the middle.

 They analyze the tone of the article, assign it a 100 if they consider it to be a rave, a 70-80 for positive reviews, 60 for mixed, 30 for negative, 0 for overwhelmingly negative.  Also, note that a game can have no recommendation. This is then essentially a four-star model, where the second tier (no recommendation) has a proportionally larger zone.

I still think the five-star model (like Giant Bomb uses) works best:

* 1 - Avoid
* 2 - Poor
* 3 - Good
* 4 - Great
* 5 - Excellent I'll always have a soft spot for a 5 star rating system thanks to Adam Sessler. Whether it was GameSpot TV, Extended Play, X-Play, or Rev3Games, I could never get tired of him giving a glowing review followed up with "a five... out of five". [deleted] War is hell.... a hell of a lot of fun! Well, a rating system when it comes to media criticism has no need to be more accurate than 5 stars. Even 3 stars is perfectly within reason. Anything like a 10-star system or above is just manufacturing a delusion. Decided to watch some old G4 reviews on YouTube after reading this comment. Ahhh nostalgia. Adam Sessler has always been a  big advocate of this model and I agree. There's no need to go above a 5 scale rating system and it basically does the same job as what Eurogamer is doing with the "recommended," "essential," etc. The two first are the same from a consumer point of view. There are too many good games to ever bother with poor games. I don't think these ratings can work for games.

Does 4 mean "not quite amazing" or does it mean "3 for general users, 5 for fans of the genre" ?

Most importantly, there are games that are 1 for the general audience but 5 for fans of the genre or series... That's what the review is for but then you have to assign a number, does 3 work? This doesn't apply only to games, but to movies, music, comics, books, tv shows, and hobby products. The idea of "fans of the genre" is silly when talking about reviews. Like, you wouldn't rate a rice cooker poorly for being an poor tea kettle.

Let me assure you that adding more granularity does nothing to solve this philosophical problem. &gt;Like, you wouldn't rate a rice cooker poorly for being an poor tea kettle.

This is the standard method of game reviews in the current state, however. While I also like the 5-star system, it's annoying how Metacritic translates them the 10-point scale *because it just doesn't work like that.*

A game gets 4-stars, Metacritic translates it to 8/10, and pretty much any game that gets below 8.5 is basically assumed to be crap by far too many people, and then you have 3-stars = 6/10, which basically translates to "the game's utter garbage" on the 10-point scale.

When your medium ignores mostly everything that falls below the 8.5-9.0 range, it's kind of depressing. Fucking Metacritic, man. If they at least had "Average score: Stars" and "Average score: X out of 10" categories it would be a little bit better. Or people could stop giving a shit about Metacritic, but that's hoping for too much. Totally agreed. 5 is the perfect level of granularity for ratings in anything. Especially since quality in games (let alone any type of art) is nebulous, subjective, and coarse-grained, unless you're talking about a game with so many bugs in it it negatively affects gameplay (Assasin's Creed: Unity *cough*). My one issue with this is that the difference between poor and good is quite large (in my mind anyway). Maybe if 3 was "Average" (as the midpoint should be), and 4 was "Good" I would be happy with the scale. I hate the word and the idea of "Average". It's way too subjective, and rarely true. I prefer "mediocre."  Sort of falls in the middle, doesn't do anything outstanding or horrible. Bah, I'd take it in the other direction: get rid of the middling value.  

* 1 - Garbage
* 2 - Bad
* 3 - Good
* 4 - Great

Take a stance!  
Don't give me any "it has good parts and bad parts" crap, it's either worth your time or it isn't.  

If it's a good game with bad parts, give it a "3 - Good", and write some paragraphs about the parts you didn't like and how the rest of it makes up for it.  If there's not enough good to justify the bad, then it's a "2 - Bad".  If you think fans of the series would like it, but overall it's not good, then that's a "2 - Bad", too.  

\#EndWishyWashyReviewScores Thumbs up - Play it

Thumbs down - Don't play it What if nothing in the game is particularly good or bad? Imagine a bland game with samey mechanics.  &gt; Imagine a bland game with samey mechanics.

Sounds like a bad game to me Easy.  Did the reviewer enjoy playing it?  If yes, "3 - Good", if no "2 - Bad".   Eurogamer is cutting ties to Metacritic; the scores will not translate to Metacritic from the Eurogamer network.  I actually like metacritic. Begone ye spawn of satan himself. 

On a more serious note though, I think the general idea is that metacritic isn't unto itself a problem but rather the way the games industry uses metacritic, as highlighted by the Obsidian New Vegas incident. http://www.gamasutra.com/view/news/165900/Report_Obsidian_missed_Fallout_New_Vegas_bonus_by_one_Metacritic_point.php Worth pointing out that I've read from a developer that agreements like that aren't often just arbitrary benchmarks, but rather a way to make sure the developer gets paid if they put out a game that's a critical darling but not necessarily a commercial success. Still disappointing that Obsidian got the short end of the stick, but at least it wasn't some sky-high benchmark and failing to meet it didn't mean any of their employees went hungry.  Seriously?! Obsidian missed a bonus because it didn't meet an arbitrary number while producing IMHO one of the best games of all time? Maybe if the game wasn't broken on release it would have made it. But I agree, the game is amazing Bethesda was in charge of QA though, that's what puts it into such a slimey light. Not to say there's any fault with Bethesda as such, but the whole business is just weird.   
'We will only pay you this amount after the game is released if you get this score. We are also in charge of determining where your financing goes, your advertising, and QA. So basically we also determine your score.' They also had absolutely brutal schedule to release the game, it's a minor miracle the game turned out as well as it did. That's just what Obsidian does. See: KOTOR 2. KOTOR 2 could've been something amazing....I really enjoyed in nonetheless...but man oh man...I still play the first one on occasion. Delay it, it's been shown and proven time and time again that delaying your product means damn near nothing to final sales. It does nothing to the final sales, but longer time for development means bigger budget so less profit. They were also probably bound by a contract with Bethesda to ship and the other side probably didn't give a shit about quality. Why is not a fault with Bethesda as such? I know everyone loves ES and Fallout series and that's why they can get away with everything, but their games on release are broken to the point of unplayable. I mean I bought Skyrim for PS3 and never again will I buy a Bethesda game except for a few euros in steam sale. 

It took them more than a year to fix that game, and the community just waves it all away by saying: well on the pc we can just use mods. I guess they are happy that people don't mind their shitty attitude and just let the community fix their problems.  That's why the smart gamer never preorders. I didn't pre-order but bought very soon after release. It was the last time I based a purchasing decision mainly on review by major games website. I think it was gamespot. They were talking about the game having some bugs but still gave it a 9,5 or something (they later changed this for the PS3 version). So I thought: Oh should be fine. Plus it's not fixed at all. I love it, but as a console player, my enjoyment is tainted by quest bugs.  Oh god, the quest bugs. One night I decided to do the Blood on the Ice quest because it's one of the few quests I enjoy (and I get a sweet house out of it), and the city gets attacked by vampires. They kill some people, but hey, no big deal. Little did I know that one of them was actually *extremely* important. It was some high elf stable worker, but her death is apparently enough to break the very quest itself. I find out about this a few days later, and come to absolutely hate the vampire encounters and the fact that Bethesda cares more about fixing faster level ups in a single player game than the goddamn quests.

EDIT: Added in a word. Well I mean, at least they have the option for the community to fix their problems on the PC. I do feel really bad for the console players who had to deal with it on release day. 

 The PS3 case is a very extreme one though. Played perfectly (for Bethesda haha) on 360  Yeah I mean I see how that makes the game a lot better, but I just feel if you are relying on the pc-community to make your game playable it's a bit dishonest to release it on other platforms.  &gt; Bethesda was in charge of QA though

QA doesn't fix broken games, they just find broken things that need fixing. The developers fix. It's actually worse than that. What they've said could also be interpreted as "Dear gaming media. If you don't start handing out better scores more often we will pay the producers of your games less. It's entirely your fault.". Bethesda games are always broken on release, New Vegas was no different (I know it was made by Obsidian but QA was handled by Bethesda). Fallout NV is the first example that comes to my mind when I think of how useless scores are as an indicator of the actual value.  It's one of my all time favorites and a masterpiece of a role playing game.  My gut score is a 10/10.  And yet, it does have some technical problems (which I rarely ran into) and doesn't make any leaps from the previous game in terms of engine, animations, etc.  So do I dock points for the technical faults that have never had a significant impact on my enjoyment?  Simply tagging it as "essential" is a much better way to get my opinion across. The real question should rather be : why aren't bonus calculated on... FUCKING SALES ?

All websites can say the game is crap, if it sells million copies that's totaly irrelevant : you still made money and the guys who made it happen earned their share of it. sales are largely generated by marketing, pr, etc. 

As a dev/creator, it would be very dangerous to put your bonus's/money making in the hands of someone else.

this is a major aspect of the you know what controversy.    Games media decide who gets covered, how much buzz is generated, and the like.

somewhere between 1000-2000 games come out each year.   The single most important part of selling your game, is simply getting its name out there.  People buy what they have heard of. 
Bad games sell well, all the time.. Simcity 4, Diablo3(before expac), kim kardasian game.
And great games often have little real sales.   Simply due to lack of marketing budgets, (cronyism as we've now seen...), or lack of brand loyalty. &gt; As a dev/creator, it would be very dangerous to put your bonus's/money making in the hands of someone else.

You mean someone else, like...critics and aggregation sites?
 Yeah then you'll complain that people keep buying COD year after year. Are you really encouraging developers to create a cashgrab?  Because they presumably already get paid based on sales? Wouldn't they get a fraction of the royalties or w.e.? From the article:

&gt; "Fallout: New Vegas was a straight payment, no royalties, only a bonus if we got an 85+ on Metacritic, which we didn't." You can make the best game ever and it won't sell shit, you can make the worst game ever and it won't sell shit. The secret is to make a SEQUEL to a GOOD GAME, that's what the business is about, that's why maintaining franchises at a consistent favorable reception is important. because even if it sells well while being a terrible game, it could tarnish the brand and therefore hurt sales of future titles in the franchise. 

with that being said FNV is amazing and Obsidian deserved more dev time and more money for that game. Lets blame Metacritic for shitty practices of developers/publishers. I prefer the Rotten Tomatoes approach: "this many critics were generally positive". Even that isn't a great system either.  The difference on that website between "fresh" and "rotten" is pretty arbitrary and sometimes not clear cut at all, even when it's more clear the basic tomato score doesn't take any specifics into account, like 45% of Man of Steel reviews being "rotten" but if you actually read them more than half are negative for literally just "This isn't like the Donner movie."

It's a great site for a collection of reviews and overall ideas, but I tend not to pay any attention to the actual tomato meter itself. But that's the good thing about Rotten Tomatoes you *shouldn't* put too much stock on the numbers themselves. Man of Steel might have a 55%, but it had an average score of 6.2 and an audience score of 76%! That means you actually have to go and read the damn reviews to see why they do/don't like it.  Would you rather watch a movie that 100% of people generally liked, or a movie that 50% of people absolutely adored and the other 50% hated. Just using RT's main scoring system is a good way to watch nothing but bland movies. RT's top 10 movies of all time by score:

1.	 99%	The Wizard of Oz (1939)	107
2.	 100%	Citizen Kane (1941)	67
3.	 100%	The Godfather (1972)	81
4.	 100%	The Third Man (1949)	60
5.	 99%	A Hard Day's Night (1964)	101
6.	 100%	Modern Times (1936)	53
7.	 98%	Selma (2015)	192
8.	 99%	Metropolis (1927)	116
9.	 100%	All About Eve (1950)	58
10.	 100%	Das Cabinet des Dr. Caligari. (The Cabinet of Dr. Caligari) (1920)

What was that again about "nothing but bland movies"?

Edit: While we're at it, the top 10 scored movies of 2014:

1.	 98%	Boyhood (2014)	260
2.	 96%	The LEGO Movie (2014)	221
3.	 95%	Whiplash (2014)	236
4.	 97%	Life Itself (2014)	184
5.	 99%	Gloria (2014)	122
6.	 95%	Nightcrawler (2014)	218
7.	 97%	Mr. Turner (2014)	159
8.	 97%	The Babadook (2014)	158
9.	 99%	Starred Up (2014)	101
10.	 95%	Snowpiercer (2014)

So much bland.
 That can often be more of a test of how much people agree than how good a thing is.  For example, if something is pretty clearly a 5.1 out of 10, and everybody agrees, it gets the maximum score, whereas something that half the people thought was a 10, but the other half thought was okay, but a bit below average gets a mediocre score. It does its job as a gauge of how likely you are to think that thing is good though. Also, the bar for 'fresh' is set at 6/10 and 60% respectively to make it a bit more clear-cut.

Rotten Tomatoes used to do games too but virtually everyone ignored it. The bar for fresh was upped to 7/10 for games if I remember correctly. I don't obsess over the numbers they assign the reviews, but the site itself is really convenient because they compile hundreds of reviews and send me to sites I might otherwise have not known about. I bet those game review sites get an enormous amount of their traffic from Metacritic.  I really rely on Metacritic, to be honest, because there aren't any individual reviewers that I trust or like that much. 

Everyone always says in these threads "Just find which site you agree with and go there" but there aren't any, for me. I wildly agree or disagree with the likes of Polygon, Giant Bomb, Eurogamer, Edge and so on, from game to game. 

So I genuinely need Metacritic to give me an easy, at-a-glance way of viewing how a game has been received. I don't use it as a way of saying "oh, X game got 88, it's obviously worse than Y game which got 89" but I do use it as a way of seeing that a game was universally praised, or had very mixed reviews, or whatever.  It's an awkward place to be, there is nothing better than a quick number for an instant idea of how the game is. But at the same time sites like Metacritic are hurting the games you play behind the scenes.

I think if all sites went with the no score, it will force people to read a bit more before passing judgement, and can that really be that bad? I'm sure we all waste enough time doing more wasteful things. You don't need to agree with a reviewer for their work to be relevant to you.

The value in following a single person or entity for reviews is that you will get to know them, and most importantly, know their personal biases. Even if they don't like a particular game or genre, you can still use their review to help form your own conclusion about the game. That is a real value of having a single source for reviews, because just knowing about the reviewer gives you greater insight into all of their work, and gives you additional context that you're missing by just using Metacritic.

If you're having trouble finding someone on traditional gaming websites, I would recommend looking for a gaming youtube channel that interests you. There are likely hundreds, if not thousands of gaming youtube channels that could help fit your needs. I already don't have enough time to play games, I'm not going to spend hours on Youtube watching people talk about games. For an end-user, Metacritic might be a good thing.

For the industry in general - it's severely damaging. There have already been cases where publishers have withheld payment bonuses to dev studios just because they were a few points short of the targeted score on Metacritic.

Publishers also have a greater incentive to push for backdoor deals to give their games higher scores, just so they could get greater exposure on Metacritic.

It's a poison to the industry. Isn't that more of an issue on the publisher/developer side? Metacritic isn't responsible for choices they make. No, it isn't. 

In the instances where bonuses are withheld:

1) It's only a portion of the bonus, not the entire thing. Every industry has performance-based bonuses, not just games. Some studios have bonuses tied to Metacritic, some have it tied to winning awards, some have it tied to sales. Some have a combination of everything. 

2) The developer signs that agreement, they're not forced to do it. If I say "if you get 100 upvotes, I'll give you 10" and you agree to that, and then you get 99 upvotes, it was still your decision, and it was a perfectly fine decision. 

Too many gamers don't understand that performance-based bonuses are totally normal, and not unfair, and not something forced upon developers by cruel taskmaster publishers holding whips and chains. Also, it's a *bonus*. It's not like "Hey, your Metacritic score is too low, no paycheck for you!" Nothing wrong with that.  Metacritic isn't the problem, it's the way the industry financially revolves around it. The system Rotten Tomatoes use makes much more sense.

I wish they were as prevalent as Metacritic in other media than film. I liked it more when it was like this:

Story: 8/10

Graphics: 7/10

Gameplay: 9/10

Soundtrack: 5/10

Multiplayer: 2/10

Replayablility: 1/10

**Overall score: 5,3/10**

(Not these exact pointers but you get the idea)


Just showing the overall score like they used to is misleading, but now we're heading towards "Shit",  "Okay" and "OMFG Awesome". I think that's worse. I think that's good and all, but only without the overall score at the bottom. Personally I value gameplay highest, story second highest, and so on. Other people will have different weight assigned to each of those categories, so just averaging out all of the scores doesn't give an accurate picture either - I typically don't care about the multiplayer so that 2/10 is going to drag down what I might otherwise consider a great game. Agreed. Such scoring system is great without the overall rating. In the example above, the overall score indicates that its an average game, but with a story and gameplay of such high rating it means that the game is a great story based single player without branching story lines/choices and not replayable. For someone who's into multiplayer its not a good game, for those who enjoy story driven single player game its a great game even though the score is average.  I like the ones where they say "Overall Score is not an Average" where in the end all the scores are nothing but a series of arbitrary numbers. Not necessarily. GameSpot's old system was like this. If you try to write a user review there, you can work out by yourself that one point in gameplay equals 0.3, whereas graphics and sound are 0.2 and 0.1 or something along these lines.

Most sites today do it arbitrarily though, and it's kinda stupid. Every site that gives scores like 83/100 or 7.4/10 will always have a degree of arbitrariness about their too-detailed scoring system. Joke reviews aside I sort of like how Steam handles their reviews.

Binary choice, thumbs up vs thumbs down, then aggregate those into general statements "overwhelmingly positive" "mixed" "generally negative".

Obviously not useful for editorial sites, but I like the broad generalities of positives and negatives better than Metacritic's weighted "average" where each publication is given a hidden weight and BigNameSite's 9/10 might be worth more than 3x small sites 6/10s. Agreed! Steam's approach when you break it down is almost like Rotten Tomatoes' method, except shown to readers in a way that distances them from the cold, hard numbers. You know that you, personally, could still ignore the overall score, even if it's still there, right?

Wanting to remove something because you don't use it, when it's entirely optional, seems a bit silly when it could be beneficial to others. Yeah, I do know that. I think overall it would be more beneficial for it not to be there, as people are likely going to look at the overall score before anything else and judge a game that they might love based on a misrepresentation of the factors they consider important. My body, my choice you've highlighted a huge problem with that system in your example; a game shouldn't be penalised based on some unnecessary tacked-on multiplayer if it's as good as your example at everything else. An overall score that is just the average of 6 aspects is just as bad as giving an arbitrary score, because it lacks weighing. Every reader has different priorities, for some, graphics is more important than MP, others are not interested in replayability, etc.

I agree that scoring different aspects is better than reducing a game into one number, but an undifferentiated overall score is what sites like metacritic will pick up and use. You actually gave  me an idea. Most  people get their reviews online these days anyways right? So why not have a feature where you create a site account and then have a place in your profile where you can *set* such weighting values on each category. 

The reviewers would still be the ones to score each category, but each registered user would see their own uniquely calculated overall score, based on their own preferences. 

You could even set different weights on each category depending on the genre. So an FPS requires good multiplayer, but for a story driven RPG it's far less important. 

Each reviewer would have their own set of weights, and those would be applied for any visitor who doesn't have an account. You could even make weight settings exportable and sharable for the lazy. 

I think I'm on to something here. This is 2015 god damn it - we should be thinking more ambitiously, not just yearning for a slightly *less* flawed system.  GameTrailers used to do it like that and everyone used to go to them for their high quality reviews even though they couldn't post their content on Youtube. Too bad they ditched that system for a simplistic single review score to look like the rest. I don't understand your premise.  The 88 game and the 89 game are now both "recommended".  How does that give us more information?  It forces them to explain themselves and things like thatv The actual review is the information. These end cap titles are just for letting you know if they personally feel it's a fantastic game, a good game to check out, a mediocre game or just a straight up bad game. But how is that different from the old system?  I mean, all the information has always been in the review, right?  To me, it seems like the review itself is not changing at all, but the "score" is changing from 100 possible outcomes to 3 possible outcomes.  Am I wrong?  Because the numbers and what they mean are no longer evenly distributed. Anything below a 7 is considered a bad game by people. The difference is that this system answers the question "what games should I get?"  The other one answered the question of "how good is this game?"  The first question is more direct for the consumer. I actually wrote up a *huge* post (The .txt file with it is about 15kb It would've been a thread and a comment.) a ways back that I was going to drop here about review scores and it had a shit ton of tables comparing the 10/10 scores between multiple companies but then lazed off the qualitative analysis so I didn't. 

Eurogamer got displaced by Edge there because Edge had an easier search system for their review scores and also Eurogamer from what I could tell handed out somewhere around [70 10/10's](http://www.metacritic.com/publication/eurogamer?filter=games&amp;num_items=100&amp;sort_options=critic_score) if metacritic is to be believed.

Interestingly, IGN, for all the "11/10 Kind of boring" trash talk it gets, only had about 30 titles that it rated 10/10. IGN are sticklers with 10/10's. Where the joke came from is that for quite some time they were extremely reluctant to hand out anything below a 7. It was originally "8/10, game sucks" type scores that caused the joke. Before a reviewer can post a 10/10 on IGN, all the reviewers get together to discuss if it deserves it. Hence them being so rare. Also, they were pretty ham-handed when dishing out praise for games that score 9.5 or more. If I remember correctly, they said GTA IV had a story that would have won an Oscar if it had been a movie. Silly hyperbole. Lots of sites do that.  Adam Sessler said GTA V has a story on par with the works of Shakespeare and Chauser. The infamous Bioshock Infinite hyperbole. What could've turned knto the best story ever are the side quests about Tannis in Borderlands 1. Shit's something you'd expect from a H.P Lovecraft story.

Researchs abouts the vault while the war is going on, exposed to shit that affects her mentally. She becomes less empathic but still continues her research - slowly develops something similar to psychopathy where she begins to wish other people die and so. Can't remember the whole thing, but fuck I'd love to know the full background of her before the Borderlands storyline starts. &gt; Adam Sessler said GTA V has a story on par with the works of Shakespeare and Chauser.

Heat: The Videogame. &gt;"8/10, game sucks"

Hate out of ten. That is an interesting topic for a study, honestly.  I wouldn't go so far as to call it a study, considering I couldn't legit source some of the scores I was using back to the magazine specifically (I had Famitsu in there and there's no database of their reviews online. The one that *did* exist was usermade and had been taken down a few years back, so I variously was using gamefaqs, metacritic, and a large spreadsheet someone had made of a bunch of older systems scores.), though I did see a few interesting trends there. Maybe I'll go back work out some kinks and throw it up here. &gt;"Recommended", "essential" and "avoid" tell a much better story than 80 points, 90 points and 30 points.

I think this is an important detail that some sites have missed when they decided not to have scores (initially or otherwise). I don't have a ton of free time, I'm not always going to read your essay on a game, especially since writers don't seem to care about spoilers as much as I do. A quick summary, pros and cons, and a general recommendation is very nice.

Kotaku does [it better](http://i.imgur.com/d1zaq18.png) than anyone else that I've seen. &gt; I don't have a ton of free time, I'm not always going to read your essay on a game

I never understood this argument. If you don't have the time to spare 10 minutes to read a review, why are you looking to buy a game that's going to require as few as 6-8 hours and as many as 100 hours of your time?

I've always found that if I'm not interested in a game enough to take the short amount of time to read or watch a review, then it means I'm not that interested in the game to begin with. If you're looking at multiple reviews, even just 10 minutes per review is a pretty big time sink if you're looking at them one after the other. A list of pros and cons and a summary/recommendation delivers most of the same information in a fraction of the time. That's the point of Metacritic and the reason it's so popular; people like to get information in the most compressed form possible. You likely read a lot more reviews than you do buying games. It would be nice not to spend half of ones gaming time working out which game to play. There is always a need for the quick check of "is it basically bad" before its worth investing time in a review. That's silly, it priority man, not actual lack of time. He wants to reddit more, or watch a trailer, netflix, movie, clean a fish tank. Not read a review that often you are looking one particular detail just to make sure it what you think your buying.

 Problem is scores were left at that, they never evolved them, why could'nt Kotaku to it like that with quick scores? Why is 5/10 considered aweful when that should be average ect. In the end people will do the same skim a review based on what arbitrary summary a website chooses, and if they don't provide one I guarantee a lot of people will skip that review and just keep looking for something that highlights a snippet of what they want out of the game and then skim the review for those bits of information and then move onto to a different form of review or information.  &gt; especially since writers don't seem to care about spoilers as much as I do

This is a serious, ongoing issue with every single reviewer right now. Everyone thinks that 'the story is bad' is enough excuse to spoil it to hell. Angry Joe's Dying Light review was awful, he literally showed you every single special zombie (which is supposed to be a surprise) and even the ending battle. It didn't bother me because I already beat the game but it was ridiculous either way.
 [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] Even better, a short summary.

Like score, "recommended" doesn't tell the reader anything unless they know the preferences and priorities of the reviewer.

&gt; Battlefield 4 is a fun, explosion-packed multiplayer shooter that looks, sounds and performs great. The single player campaign leaves much to be desired and players looking for a competitive experience should look elsewhere, but it's perfect for quick action with lots of variety in form of combined arms warfare.

While this is still subjective on many levels, it conveys a clear message about who should be interested in the game and why. Very quick to read or skim through and people can read the full review for in-depth thoughts if they have any interest.

The game could be 1/10 for someone looking for a engaging single player, or competitive multiplayer experience, but 10/10 for someone who would like Call of Duty with more variety, especially if they value visual fidelity.

If I come across a game I haven't head of, I'd rather read one or two good review summaries than see scores or recommendation flags from 50 different sources. For all I know, they are recommending the game for features I despise. I obviously can't speak for all reviews I've read or all reviews that are written, but generally the last couple paragraphs are a summary of the reviewer's perception of the game. Things that worked, things that didn't work, etc. Exactly, good reviews already do it and there's hardly any need to have even further summarized review in the form of "someone liked it for some reason", that "recommended" label essentially is. Well, it was way more relevant before "new media" showed up. Before new media, there wasn't really all that much focus on personality, and more about the company reputation. While there definately some that noticed the author's names on the reviews, they more often than not just noticed the score and the quotes along with the score on the boxes.

Now with the uprising of YouTube and Twitch, people listen more to the opinions of people they like, rather than the review score of gamespot or eurogamer. 

I'm personally not a fan of Call of Duty, but I know that Jeff Gertsman is a huge fan of the games, and that if I see that Giant Bomb gives CoD: AW a 10/10 that even though I really like Giant Bomb's stuff, I do not agree with their score and Jeff's opinion on Call of Duty. Its because Giant Bomb has a lot of different personalities and the reader should know that Danny O'Dwyer's opinion on a game is not the same as someone else working at Gamespot.

EDIT: added some stuff
 Pretty much. I mean it was always the case that there were individuals behind each and every review, it was just less "apparent" outside of recent years, and a number made it really easy for someone to complain about the score rather than bothering to look at it in the context of the actual review or reviewer. I personally didn't have an issue with review numbers, but I can see it being better overall doing away with them.  Giant Bomb do star-ratings, rather than a ten-point scale. It might just be me, but I think this helps stress the subjective nature of the review more than a number does; a *** rating gives me a better 'feeling' that a game will be *OK, but not great* than a 7/10 does. I get that they intend for stars to be different than numbers, but how can you not look at a 3 star rating and think "Oh, 3/5...60/100. Hm."

Seems kind of silly to pretend to be above a certain rating standard when it all means the same thing.  I get that it could be kind of tempting to think that, but I think it would be incorrect to do so. I think the point of using star ratings is that they *don't* mean the same thing as numerical scales. How so? It's exactly the same, just with a symbol. There's a huge subjective gap between 3/5 and 60% -- I'd wager it's due to all of us going through school, where 60% was straight up failing (or the lowest possible passing grade, in those with more lenient grading scales).

The vibe from 3/5 is "nothing too special, but not bad either." The vibe from 60/100 is "failure." Another example is a 3/5 star rated hotel sounds good but a 60% rating sounds bad. Hotels aren't rated that way. A one star hotel is good, two better, three very good, and four plus is excellent. 

If you don't have a star it doesn't mean it's a shit hotel. Stars are given mainly for amenities.  Right, that's why giving partial stars in games feels better than partial numbers. Even though the stars in games acts exactly like a number it doesn't feel that way. 
Edit: Words Depends on what rating you're talking about..  Forbes star ratings mean something more than just amentities and a 1 and 2 star ratings wouldn't be 'good' 'better' in that rating.. Most economincal motels/hotels are considered to be in the 1-3 star range and for frequent travelers these are considered mediocre amenities.

Either way this illustrates the subjective nature of the star rating even applied to hotels and how people perceive the ratings. Might as well be smiley faces or frowny faces "Old media" reviews of "old media" (e.g. newspaper reviews of movies) have always been about the reviewer. It was always Robert Ebert who reviewed movies, not the Chicago Sun-Times. Reviewers were expected to have and show strong personalities.

I don't know game reviews, old media the game magazines always looked like big ads to me, and didn't interest me. It's true. I give more attention to whatever Quill18 likes than whatever IGN gives 9/10 score. [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] This is the first major gaming website to do this I believe?

Losing the Metacritic score also means less clicks (and redirects), so I hope that Eurogamer can stand firm with their choice. Joystiq stopped just before they were shut dien/down  Kotaku have done this a long time ago and they're fine (although they have resorted to a lot of buzzfeed style articles).  [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] Oh yeah I totally forgot about Kotaku. They escaped my mind completely, I suppose it's because I haven't frequented their site for at least a year. &gt; This is the first major gaming website to do this I believe?

RPS has never had scores, and they are (were?) the largest PC gaming site Yes RPS does that a long time ago, but I don't think people would directly compare them in size or recognizability compared to GameSpot, IGN or Eurogamer unless you're an avid PC gamer.

I'd say I forgot about RPS as well, though. Thanks. What sucks most about review scores are gamers themselves. People constant shit on reviewers for not giving scores that they feel a game "deserves". That's stupid, especially if my scores are based on MY ENJOYMENT of the game. A game doesn't deserve a 7 just because you think it deserves credit despite the fact that I might have absolutely loathed my experience with it. There's always arguments in comment sections that have the inevitable "Aw come on. It wasn't amazing, but x game deserves at LEAST a 6-7 for blah blah reasons reasons reasons". TBH, the thing that ruins a lot of things about gaming is the gamers themselves. Trolls in online games, fanboys needlessly flaming each other, debates over what is/ isn't a game etc etc. People get insecure about what they like. There are games that I really enjoy that have awful critical scores in a lot of places, and the opposite is true sometimes too. I just have to accept that sometimes people are going to hate the things I like and not get all mad when someone's score doesn't reflect how I feel about the game. I'd much rather have interesting discussion about the game instead of arguing about some arbitrary score that it received, but that's the norm currently. We can argue about video games but please not scores. Taking them away won't magically make every fanboy or troll delightful, but at least we're getting closer to discussing the actual game on a deeper level. I see this step as raising the general quality of discourse overall rather than being a big fix. I don't get why people have a huge dislike of scores at the end of reviews. If people are skipping to the end of a review and only reading the score, that's their choice. If they then get upset about it without reading the review, then that's their problem.

Even without a final score, those same people can then just skip to the end and read the concluding paragraph. 

I don't really understand what the problem is, and how removing scores is going to solve it. I suppose the scores are a much bigger problem for those who have to make them up and justify them. They are also a problem for devs working under publishers with some obsession for review scores. Actually the only problem there is the publishers being assholes. Review scores are simply a tool that provides information, and if EA or Zenimax or Ubisoft punishes its developers because they have some irrational obsession with Metacritic, the only fault there lies with them, not the devs and not Metacritic. Surely that's what the review is there for; to explain and justify what the final score is for?  But the people who complain about the score of a review aren't using the review to decide if they should buy a game or not. In order for the review score to be "wrong" you have to already have your idea of what the score should be before you looked at the review, which obviously did not change your opinion. Thing is, I kind of understand why people might be upset if a game they like gets a bad review. I don't think this makes them right, but I get it. It's kind of like a personal attack on your tastes.

What I will never, ever understand though, is when people insist a review is wrong for a game that isn't out, meaning *they have never even played it*.  I don't know how I feel about this, on one side I can understand review scores are ultimately pointless - but for someone who doesn't get much time to read full reviews and has a quick browse at work, I almost always scroll down to the review score to see if the review is even worth my time reading the review.  If the game has a high score i'll put it on my radar to read the review, if it has a low score i'll put it off... I've limited reading time.

I guess what they've done here is just replaced a number with Recommended, Essential, Avoid.  But really I don't see the huge difference, so instead of rating out of 100 or 10, its rated out of 3 now, I already kinda did that in my head when looking at a score anyway, 8.5+ was Essential, and 7 to 8.5 was recommended, and funnily enough anything less than a 7 was usually an avoid (or i'd sometimes add another category in my head, a 'wait for a steam sale' category, and get games that looked good but weren't praised too high) --- weird how that works, but a lot of games get turfed into the 7+ category, I only have time for so much..

So i guess i don't see the huge difference since in my head I always lumped games into 3 categories anyway - but will be good that this will be more standardised as I am sure there are plenty of games they'd recommend that didn't meet my 7+ criteria.

tbh I do much the same with imdb and what movies to watch - so much rubbish gets a 5 to a 6 on imdb that it's usually not worth my time They're not slapping one of the three on all games, just the ones they feel deserve it. According to what they write, the "vast majority" will simply have a sentence or two summarizing their opinion.  This. Their replacement for the score is a tweet-sized phrase of remarks for the game, which can convey far more and you can still decide quickly if you want to read on. All this and more is in the article linked.

I personally think this is a fantastic decision and will be paying more attention to EuroGamer because of it. They did say they will have a short (length of a tweet as the article claims) summary at the top of the actual review. So instead of looking at the score, you can have a quick glance at that, decide if the review is worth your time for later and move on. It doesn't take much more time than looking at the score. Shame.  I like review scores.  I mean, I know it's ridiculous to grade games out of 100, but grading out of 5, or even 10, seems perfectly reasonable and saves me analysing pages of sometimes tortured prose to figure out whether the reviewer liked it (which isn't always obvious).

I like how (for movies) Empire Magazine does it:

5 Stars - Unmissable
4 Stars - Excellent
3 Stars - Good
2 Stars - Poor
1 Star - Tragic

Would work great for games too. Don't you think that commonly we see 4 stars as 'very good'. Not quite excellent, but a lot better than average. That means that we see 5 stars as 'excellent' and everything above that. 5 stars is not something you should only give to unmissable films, and thus the problem is that the 5 star system doesn't have enough to it. 10 points allows the 10 to be reserved for actually unmissable products, while still giving those damn good products a super high 9/10. There's no denying that 9/10 is better than 4 stars. This is how Giant Bomb does reviews. Man eurogamer just brought me back into mainstream reviews. The plan to only use retail versions is also a big step in terms of authenticity and integrity I may be in the minority but I actually like review scores from sites like Eurogamer. If you read the review, it's a convenient overall summary of what you've just read. Problem is if they're just taken at face value without reading the review. [deleted] While i wholeheartedly agree with this decision, i definitely feel this will result in a net loss of traffic. To what end i can't say for sure, but only time will really tell. Sites like Rock paper shotgun have always done completely fine without, so we'll see. 

Hopefully things go well and this prompts more outlets to do the same, Although i feel there is always going to be a large subset of people who just want a number to look at, like with other media. Not much you can do to get around it. Instead of a review score at the bottom of a review, I'd like to see bullet point lists of things the reviewer 'Liked', 'Hated' and 'Conflicted By/Unsure About'.

Then a recommended price point in which to get it. "Buy now!" "Consider after price drop", "Bargain Bin Treasure" or "Don't bother." 

Basically, a combination of how Kotaku used to do it and how some reviews on CheapAssGamer have been handled (with the price point suggestion).

EDIT: a word 
Essential/Recommended simply aren't going to apply when a player just isn't into some styles of games. They've got the same fundamental problem as a review score. 

A short way of giving reviewers an idea of whether a game is worth their interest is to list the features, strengths, weaknesses. Some people do not care if combat is bad but the story is great, and others are vice versa, for example.

I've played Sunless Sea, which they've now got as "Essential" which is a total laugh. It is a charming indie game, but it's not the kind of game I'd ever consider essential to me and I'd assume many people might buy it and get turned off the game within the first 10-15 minutes. 
 You need to remember that reviews aren't supposed to outright tell you to buy a game. You still need to decide it for yourself.

I personally am not into racing games. If the next Need For Speed is marked as Essential by their scale, I'll still probably skip it. But then again I would skip it if they gave it 10/10 or 100/100 or 5 stars anyway, because I don't enjoy that type of game.

The new system would be helpful if for example at first glance you are interested in a game, but aren't 100% sure you'll like it. You tune into a review and make your decision based on the points the reviewer makes. Instead of jumping in, seeing a 6/10 game and going "Meh", you'll read the whole thing, and if for example the game is not Recommended or Essential because of poor multiplayer, but excellent single player, you might still decide to buy it, because single player is all that concerns you. Racing games are an easy example, not all games are so easy to categorize. Going with Sunless Sea as an example again, I really didn't know 100% what to expect of the gameplay. Some genres are also messier than others - you've probably seen some internet debates over what games do/don't qualify as "real RPGs".

Establishing what a game is and how it plays before reviewing it can be important. Even their full review tells you all things you can do in the game, but not how you really go about doing them in game for the most part. I went away from their review with very little learned other than "this guy really freaking liked this game". Which is not good. TotalBiscuit OTOH provided something genuinely useful because he provides the objective information necessary to put the rest in context, although using gameplay footage gives him an obvious advantage as well.  Great hopefully other sites follow suit and major companies can get rid of that shit were a developer's game must get above a certain score to get a bonus. I like this change. It judges games like they should be, in shades of grey. And it's not like it changes how you look at reviews or look for a game: instead of searching "All over 9" or "All over 8" to discover which game you should buy next, you just look for "Essentials". If you play enough games of a specific genre to look for things under that threshold, well you look for "Recommanded and check the review, just like you would with a search for things in the 6's and 7's.

Anyways, don,t we already recommand games to are friends that way? I mean, I don't say "yeah that's a 8.5" or "a 6", I say "This is awesome", "This is good" and "This is awful". Was there not just a huge argument late yesterday about how "reviews aren't reviews if they don't have a score?"

Yes. Yes they are. This is great news and I hope more publications and websites follow suit. I wish more review sites would take this stance. Forces people to actually read the damn review and make their own decision rather than fixating on the number attached to it. I'm glad to see them gone. The review score age is no longer possible with games on so many types of media. You can't possibly tell me an 8/10 PC game is the same as an 8/10 iOS game, WiiU game, PS4 game, etc.
Every review score was in relation to the platform, genres, like-games, time period, etc. yet we group all the same "out of 10" scores to be equal when that's not possible, the score flushed out the context.
I suppose this is more an issue with the consumer/reader taking things at face value and not looking deeper than a superficial score, but at the same time it was up to the publication to not dumb down a game and 1-2 page write up into a single digit number. I would add a average/meh choice for games that are not quite recommended but are not bad enough to avoid. To be honest this changes very little. A game being "Good", "bad" or "decent" is just a arbitrary as a game scoring 80 out 100. What's good? The graphics? The story? The fact that the protagonist is a woman?

What makes a game good is subjective to say the least. Some people find QTEs exciting and fun no matter how many times the player is subject to said QTE. Some people like a good grind in their RPGs. Reviewers these days seem obsessed with objectivity and thus fail to present reviews for what they actually are: opinion pieces. Don't be afraid top be specific about what made you like the game. And what you didn't like.
Things that could (and should) be presented "objectively" are things like:

* How good a game has been ported. In fact "port-status" should be a required part of any PC game review. 
* How well it performs from a technical stand-point on a wider range of hardware (I remember some sites/magazines having actual diagrams with FPS).
* Life-span (at least when it comes to multiplayer titles). Are there any players? Will there be enough content to keep them playing? Will there be DLC to keep the game alive? I hate it when a reviewer sells me on a indie multiplayer game with "amazing gameplay" only to discover it only has like 300 concurrent players.


Another thing that needs to change is how gaming journalists approach game reviews: it shouldn't be a race to get your review out first, if should be a race to get the review done best. All to often it's apparent that reviews are based on the first few hours of a game. The game starts out fine and usually has some mechanics that are fun to play around with. The first ten times. Then it's downhill from there. Rinse repeat for 10 hours and no real story to back the repetitive gameplay. Of course the game is going to be good! Most developers design there games based on focus groups playing the first segment based on the fact that this makes for higher metacritic scores! A review should either be of the game as a whole or it should be stated CLEARLY that the review is based on what has been played. You know, I've always thought an interesting way to score reviews would be based off of its recommended retail price. For instance a pretty good AAA game might get a score of 40 (probably about 80 percent the retail price) a flawed but otherwise fun downloadable title might get a score of 10 (100 percent retail price but as that's less money it's less of a loss to spend it). 

Maybe it's just coz I don't have too much money right now but I always set a price in my head after reading a review and think 'right, when it hits that I'll grab it'.  Likewise if I'm really excited for a game they could charge as much as they wanted for it. The Witcher 3 could be asking for a pound of human flesh and I'd still get it.  Hmm, its kinda odd that they have two positives and one negitive review indicator. Why not Essential, Recommended, a "on the fence" rating, and Avoid? I feel like the bigger the numbers reviewers use, the worse the review is.  I don't see any bad reviews that work on, say, a five point system, but when you get into the stuff like 85/100 or 8.5/10, that leaves a lot of unnecessary room for inaccuracies.  While I like this idea in theory, sometimes I'm too busy to read a whole review and want to peek down at the bottom of the page, see some bullet points and a score, and go from there.

Also, I can't help but wonder if the removal is a tactic to get more attention and the site's name out there. I mean, Siliconera has never had scores on its reviews, but doesn't go around making a big deal about it.  I talk a lot of shit about game review/news sites. But this makes me respect this one in particular more. Oh my god, finally someone else (besides RPS) does the right thing. Just because you use numbers instead of labels (good, very good, mediocre) doesn't mean you are allowed to do arithmetics with it (look up 'ordinal scale' and 'interval scale' on Wikipedia). In short, a game with a score of 80 and one with a score of 85 only tells you that the reviewer thought A was better than B. It does NOT tell you how much he thought it was better. And because the quality difference between, e.g., 85 and 90 is not the same as between 50 and 55 you must not compute a freaking mean. So, the big number metacritic shows for each game is just plain misleading and wrong. 

Take the median or whatever ... &gt;In short, a game with a score of 80 and one with a score of 85 only tells you that the reviewer thought A was better than B.

And even that does not necessarily hold true when A gets 83 and B gets 82. What a shit system.
 
&gt;games will be considered Recommended, Essential or Avoid.  
 
But then:

&gt;Avoid rests at the opposite end of the spectrum. Again, we expect to use this pretty rarely. 
 
So it will be good, good, or bad, but they will rarely going to list games as bad.
 
Oh but we don't want to lose our SEO ranking so:
 
&gt;When searching for reviews in Google, however, you will still see star ratings attached to Eurogamer reviews: five stars for Essential, four for Recommended, one for Avoid, three for everything else. 
 
So what you're saying is that games will be listed as good, good or not good, but you're not going to list items as not good often.  But if you don't label a game that still counts as a ranking.
 
So you will now be ranking games on a scale of 1 - 5 minus 2 because a game ranking of 2 would just be silly. Why don't you try reading the article again. Specifically:

&gt;In place of scores, we'll have one-line summaries for every review, and a new recommendation system whereby **some, but not all** games will be considered **Recommended**, **Essential** or **Avoid**.

and

&gt;Beyond this, we still wanted a way to highlight the games that we feel most strongly about. So, some - but once again, **not all** - games will be flagged as **Recommended**, **Essential** or **Avoid**. No, it means they're not going to bother wasting time and resources on games that are undoubtedly shitty, ie: shovelware.

If *Bloodbourne* is absolute crap, they'll give it an "avoid".  *Kitchen Simulator*, on the other hand, is inherently a terrible game that would most certainly be crap, but Eurogamer isn't going to review it anyways, thus it's able to elude the "avoid" tag.  I don't really understand why people are so excited about scores being removed.

How are you going to decide which reviews are worth reading? 

Without scores/rankings you're left with:

* Reading all published reviews. - Very time consuming.
* Reading a random assortment of reviews. - You could easily miss games you'd love.
* Deciding which reviews to read based on marketing. - How is that empowering you to make good purchase decisions as a consumer?
* Reading topN lists or reading reviews that are publicised on the review site's homepage. - Open to abuse in exactly the same ways as review scores. People will read the reviews on sites they trust, or from writers their taste's align with. That's a better metric for whether or not a review's worth reading than a number plastered onto it.  &gt; People will read the reviews on sites they trust, or from writers their taste's align with. That's a better metric for whether or not a review's worth reading than a number plastered onto it.

Having scores doesn't prevent you from doing that. It just allows you to decide that it's not worth spending 10 minutes of your life reading a review written by the person you trust if it scored 27%.

This just smacks of treating the symptoms of a problem rather than the cause. There's plenty of text signifiers, often early on, that paint the review in strokes a little less broad than a number. It's not like you have to read the whole thing to get a quick impression of the reviewers tone.  &gt; There's plenty of text signifiers, often early on, that paint the review in strokes a little less broad than a number. 

There can be, depending on the reviewer. But you can't order a list of reviews by "text signifiers".

&gt; It's not like you have to read the whole thing to get a quick impression of the reviewers tone.

No, but you do have to click through to each specific review and read at least a part of it. With a scoring system you can filter or sort a long list of reviews by their score to concentrate your time on reading reviews for things you might actually want to play.

Fundamentally I think it's throwing away useful information for no gain:

* The presence of a score doesn't prevent a review from being well written.
* If publishers are being unreasonable, then removing scores isn't going to make them more reasonable.
* If journalists are taking backhanders to give games favourable treatment then removing scores isn't going to magically imbue them with integrity. Exactly. As well, it could force you to miss a great game, because maybe the reviewer you like didn't look at that particular game. Normally I might surf a list of scores that occurred over a month to see if anything stands out (I don't have the time keep up-to-date tabs on the gaming market). And even if it's not a genre I normally play, I might check it out if the score is particularly high.

Removing scores just means I won't do that at Eurogamer, and that another site will get my traffic. I completely agree, that's normally my first step when I want to find a new game to play.

As I've gotten older my free time has become a lot more limited. It's very useful to me to be able to limit the amount of time I waste reading reviews of crap games. &gt;It just allows you to decide that it's not worth spending 10 minutes of your life reading a review written by the person you trust if it scored 27%.

That's why most reasonable attempts at removing numerical scores rather replace them with a quick and brief summary and a "recommended" or "not recommended" statement.

You can still just hop to the end of a review to see if the game is utter trash or not, without having to read the whole thing. &gt; "recommended" or "not recommended" statement

If that's a flag that I can sort and filter reviews by then it might be better than nothing (although less useful than a 5 star rating system). I'm not sure how that's any different from a more granulated x/5, x/10 or x% score though.

If it's just a line of text inside the review then you need to enter each review page to see if the review is worth reading. That's good for the website (more page impressions) but bad for the user (it takes longer to weed out games they're not interested in).

&gt; You can still just hop to the end of a review to see if the game is utter trash or not

But that's much less efficient than a review site that has scores, where you don't need to hop into the review at all to establish whether it's utter trash or not.

As I said in another comment below, you're not gaining anything from scores being removed, you're only losing information:

* The presence of a score doesn't prevent a review from being well written.
* If you believe publishers are being unreasonable, then removing scores isn't going to make them more reasonable.
* If you believe journalists are taking backhanders to give games favourable treatment then removing scores isn't going to magically imbue them with integrity. I think that people aren't looking for scores. They are looking for recommendations, which don't necessarily have to come in a form of a number.  Yes, I completely agree.

Once you're reading the review(s) the scores don't have value but they are very valuable in helping you identify which reviews you should be reading just like other metrics such as genre tags, theme tags, platform tags, etc.

I just don't think there's another method of generating recommendations that's as flexible as scores.

Scores allow you to do things like filter by genre, tags, release date and platform and then order by score. 

You can use scores to generate really broad (eg all Xbox One games ever released) or really specific (space survival games released on PC in the last six months that feature zombies) topN lists to help you find the games you're interested in.

It's not feasible for any reviewer to manually create that many different lists to cater to everyone's taste/whim. 

In addition a binary recommended/not recommended (or trinary recommended/ambivalent/not recommended) system that can be tagged onto games is:

a) Conceptually exactly the same as a score.

b) Not specific enough for all use cases.

If a user is looking for something niche or specific then their quality requirement may drop. For example:

* If someone really wants to play a game based in the Star Trek universe it may be that none of them are 'recommended' but some will still be better than others.
* If someone else is interested in the finding the 'best' PC games from the last years then their quality requirement is likely to only be achieved by a small subset of all 'recommended' games from that period. My biggest issue with game reviewers isn't the scores, it's that almost none of them have the backbone to do what people really want them to do - be critical of games and tell us why we shouldn't play them. Yahtzee / Zero Punctuation has a following not just because he's clever, but because he tears into games like movie critics do.

I don't want some fat asshole sitting in a five star hotel room telling me how cool it is to mash buttons while the guy on screen does awesome looking things. I want him to tell me that Assassin's Creed is banal, repetitive, formulaic, and shit. I want him to tell me that Skyrim is one of the most unimaginative, ugly, shitty RPGs since Oblivion because the game world is just you fighting Draugar and bears every 20 feet, the character system is dumbed-down to the point that every character feels the same, the magic system is still terrible, NPCs are still horribly written and voice acted, and the quests are just go-there-fetch-that.

Fuck Marry Kill as a basis for reviews doesn't change that almost every major reviewer is just writing advertising for the game in question. Reviews acting as a buying guide adds to the impression I get from much of gaming media that it's intrinsically linked to marketting. Previews? Marketting. Impressions? Sure we're interested, but I can't help but feel a lot of positive coverage and matching advert banners are just commercial nonsense.

 Real critical reviews, retrospective pieces, documentary style videos etc. offer a much better way of engaging with games doesn't feel like it's doing the marketing for the publishers. I hope this doesn't become a trend. I like review scores to get a finger-in-the-air, ballpark idea of quality/production values/etc. Everyone goes to metacritic first before following links to individuals sites and metacritic is still going to assign every single Eurogamer review a number between 0-100 so this decision really doesn't make much difference.  Everyone? I don't. I only go to sites I like. Of course (surely you didn't take that literally?). But Metacritic generates huge amounts of web traffic and directs millions of readers to individual review sites like the ones you enjoy. For many,  it's the starting place for their gathering of information and learning more about a newly release game. With that in mind, readers will see a 0-100 score next to Eurogamer reviews before they follow the link to the full write up. So regardless of the actual site having numerical values or not, a number will still be associated with the reviews.  Recommended - 50

Essential - 100

Avoid - 0 Nah. As they already do for literally every review on the site, from video games to TV to movies to music, they'll read the full published review and then determine a specific number based upon whatever metrics they use to assign reviews scores.  That neutral zone between 'avoid' and 'recommended' introduces enough ambiguity that there's no way that Metacritic could put scores in Eurogamer's mouth without being called out on it (and possibly becoming the subject of a libel suit.)
 What are you talking about? Every single review they compile has a number, regardless of whether the review has one to begin with. Just look it up for yourself. Just like every movie review is assigned a number regardless of the reviewer using numbers. And every music review. And every TV review...  I hope this trend continues and Google takes notice. Taking out the scores gives readers more incentive to (shock and awe) actually read the review; it also gives writers more incentive to write a better quality review. All in all, this is excellent news and yet another sign that high quality content is the future, especially when it comes to criticism. This makes sense for Eurogamer more than most publications because they've clearly taken an editorial direction that emphasizes an individual reviewer's opinion over technical evaluation (see: the recent Sunless Sea and Never Alone 10/10s that were more personal essays than objective analysis).  I haven't ready any reviews for the last couple years because of the bullshit that goes with it.

&gt; This means that we will only review from final retail versions and online games will be reviewed after they've launched.

Looks like I'm gonna be using Eurogamer, good choice. I really hate it when websites do this. I know the objections to review scores, and I basically agree, but I sometimes don't have the time to read a full article and want to get a basic impression from the score and a few lines to see if I want to. 

Sometimes very hard to tell from text alone if something is worth it. A list of pros and cons as a TL;DR can get the job done too. For all the hate they get, Kotaku does this exactly right.  Read the link- they're putting a short summary at the top of every review.  But these features still exist! I guess you just did not take the time to read the full article. ;) "Sometimes it's hard to tell from text alone if something is worth it." 

If someone has to put a score on the review for you to tell if the game is worth it, that's a terrible review.  If you don't have the time to read the summary then you don't have the time to play the game anyway, so what's the problem? I read a lot of reviews at work. Might forget to read it later if it's ambiguous. I usually only read the reviews that get a good score to see if I'm interested.  You can still do that. If it's tagged as "Recommended" or "Essential" then you're good to go. If other, then you should be wary. Yeah, I know that's true with Eurogamer but a number of other websites I like have removed ratings altogether. Was having a general whine.  Fair enough. Tbh I can't justify watching reviews anymore when I can just watch some streams / lets plays on twitch/youtube and see for myself how the game plays.  They can DMCA mods for their game but they won't be able to stop you editing the game files themselves so that you can disable the Film Grain effect on your own, instructions:

Fix Edit varlist_noise.scr

Go to Steam/SteamApps/Common/Dying Light/DW.

Extract Data0.pak to Documents\DyingLight\out.

Open the 'out' folder. You will see additional folders of data/logs/settings.

Go to Data/Scripts and open varlist_noise.scr with a text editor such as notepad.

Change VarFloat("f_noise", 0.15) from 0.15 to 0.00 and save.

No need to repack, film grain is now disabled.

Launch the game.

Source: http://pcgamingwiki.com/wiki/Dying_Light#Disable_Film_Grain If someone made a script file that did this it shouldn't be vulnerable to a copyright claim,  in a similar manner to how the decss perl script was printed on tshirts It would be a reverse engineering claim, wouldn't it? Regardless, this is a configuration file and I very seriously doubt those were legit takedowns under DMCA. Reverse Engineering would be under the DMCA in section 1201, which only applies to reverse engineering with the purpose of circumvention of "technological protection measures" that "effectively control access"   Unrarring a pak file and text editing a script file would not really qualify as that, and even if you had source that did that without being compiled, it's just source.  

Even if they did have muster over that activity in the DMCA, the DMCA provides an exception for making an interoperable program, which I fail to see how a modification wouldn't be an interoperable prpogram.

Really, the only things that techland can stand on are that you are making infringing copies of the pak file contents to an unauthorized location on your hard drive and an unauthorized location in RAM while you are unpacking the file, and that you are likely in violation of their EULA by doing this; I don't think the DMCA could apply here. &gt; Really, the only things that techland can stand on are that you are making infringing copies of the pak file contents to an unauthorized location on your hard drive and an unauthorized location in RAM while you are unpacking the file, and that you are likely in violation of their EULA by doing this; I don't think the DMCA could apply here.

I don't think it would apply here, either. No matter what they think they're doing I have a feeling they're just grasping at straws.

Who would want to force film grain on people anyway? Film grain makes me immediately lose interest in fucking anything. Just about any filter does. Wait wait wait.

As I understand it, filing an illegitimate DMCA is actually a big deal... It's called abusing the law. Is someone going to call their bluff on this?

http://targetlaw.com/consequences-of-filing-a-false-dmca-takedown-request &gt; filing an illegitimate DMCA is actually a big deal.

There's only 2 things that you can do in a DMCA that are illegal in any way:

* Lying about who you are
* Intentionally and maliciously filing DMCAs that you know are false.

It's basically impossible to prove somebody intentionally filed a false DMCA report.  They can just walk into court and say, "to the best of my knowledge it was a legitimate request", and there's nothing you can do to prove that they actually knew it was not a legitimate request. If only the courts could define 'the best of their ability' based on the legal resources available to that party and the clarity of the law in question. Unfortunately this would likely be abused to fuck people over. &gt; there's nothing you can do to prove that they actually knew it was not a legitimate request.

Not necessarily, you can request their emails in Discovery and most likely you'll find some inter-office e-mail about it that indicates knowledge it's not legit but they just don't like it. The decss scripts were, as far as I know, never subject to action under the DMCA under the claim that they contained copyrighted material themselves. The problem with decss is that it is subject to the non-circumvention provision of the DMCA (17 U.S. Code  1201(b)(2)(B)). The printing it on a t-shirt didn't do anything to negate the problem with the anti-circumvention provision of the DMCA, but it *did* (along with many other similar actions taken) shift it into a free speech issue as well.

I think the DMCA is inherently anti-free speech, and decss is a primary example of why. Code shouldn't be illegal just because it bypasses someone's shitty attempt at DRM. [deleted] It has been patched... The game detect this as a corruption and wont lunch the game.  It won't launch if you repack the archive cos it changes the checksum.

Copy the file out to doc profile and it works OK.

Extract the files to:

C:\Users\Your Name\Documents\DyingLight\out\data\scripts\ and it'll work OK.
 You can change the CRC to the expected CRC, but then you won't be able to load your save. Looks like someone is already working on a tweak tool that works with the new update.


http://steamcommunity.com/app/239140/discussions/0/604941528470729562/#p1

Techland need to realize that building the wall higher only makes people make longer ladders.  And it makes them look bad. I was chomping at the bit to get this game. Now I think I'll wait and see what they do with it, since it is really starting to seem like their publisher is just stupid. I agree. How they treated review copies wasn't much better than how they are treating modding. It seems they are very controlling, and that doesn't tend to work well for software. Same here. It looked cool on steam (I don't have time for drooling over games before publication so that's where I stumbled on it) and I almost bought it but I'll spend my money elsewhere instead. 

Grim Fandango just came out, that was brilliant back in the day, please take my money!  Same here. I used to really want the game, then after reviews and gameplay on twitch came out it dropped to more of a 7/10 for me, and now that I know they're doing stuff like this (and probably going the Evolve-route with DLC) I don't know if I want this game. until they make it VAC and make it always online [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] &gt;Techland need to realize that building the wall higher only makes people make longer ladders.

Or I can avoid their little fortress of DRM entirely, as well as let all my friends know they should do the same. Think I'll do that. Yep. plenty of other zombie games incoming. and existing zombie games. plenty of which have or will allow mods. [deleted] [deleted] Bethesda have shown the industry that people who heavily mod their games will still buy worthy DLC. I'm assuming this is what the issue is here. Techland trying to stifle the 'competiton'.  I wouldn't have bought skyrims dlc of it weren't for mods. So many dlc required mods out there worth time EXACTLY

A lot of DLC out there becomes something people want to buy in order to use mods that rely on the DLC themselves. A perfect example is the home building DLC for Skyrim, which was further upgraded by modders adding tonnes of new features to the game.

Clever developers can recognise types of DLC that are worth adding to your game to take advantage of the modding community and the types of mods that they will build on top of your DLC.

What the industry needs to do is take notice of trends in modding communities and build DLCs that will encourage behaviours that lead to greater sales. NOT stifle the modding community altogether and ultimately limit the sales of not only your DLC but the game itself through bad PR.

This is a fundamental problem with the thinking that occurs in many businesses. Many staff members in companies end up hating the communities that are built up around their company because of the blunt and honest criticism that gets posted within them. Those staff members are humans and they get personally upset at the criticism of their work. It's actually a very understandable reaction, particularly when you take into account that those people aren't seasoned online forum warriors who are used to the atmosphere and bluntness of online communities - they see them as highly negative places and brand them as toxic. I've worked in companies where this occurs, and where the community itself suffers as a direct result of the workplace politics that revolves around this issue.

As a result of this rift that occurs between staff attitudes and the community you get internal creative thinking that goes out of its way to focus on money making ideas that will either harm the community or ignore them as much as possible. The end result is one that harms the company, the game, the community, and the staff attitude towards the community gets even worse as a result of the negativity towards what they're doing.

It is entirely understandable for companies to see their products as their artistic creations. BUT, after the gold release of a product they need to set aside artistic ideas and accept that the artistic control is now no longer theirs. Once a product releases thinking needs to shift from company control to collaborative improvement, where a company and the community work together to build upon this. The correct internal thinking of companies is to put power in the hands of the community by giving them the tools they need to take power themselves and grow, not only the community, but the game itself. This comes from encouraging your community, not from stifling it.

It all starts with internal attitudes and rifts that come from people that don't use online communities and become very personally upset at the criticism of their work. Not to mention that the mod community is the reason people still buy the game when then come to pc. I bought the game on ps3, then twice on pc. (the complete edition was cheaper than the dlc.) 

Given a good mod community, the game will last much longer, and give people a reason to buy if they switch.  Or look at Talewords and their games.

They are fully moddable but people still buy DLC. That's funny because their announced DLC is completely lacking, it's just 2 new missions, some costumes, and a survival mode I hate when measures are taken to prevent bad behaviour like hacking or piracy but it only ends up hurting the loyal customers

I once pirated a piece of software I OWN because it was less restrictive than the offical copy (Pro Tools if anyone cares)

The best thing about PC gaming isn't just the superior power and graphics but the modding community. &gt; I once pirated a piece of software I OWN because it was less restrictive than the offical copy (Pro Tools if anyone cares)

I own the first Mass Effect both in CD and on Origin and I can't launch either without a crack. I purchased a box copy of ME1. Played it for a while, and got onto the spaceship. When I tried to access the map so I could fly my spaceship somewhere, the game crashed. After some googling I found out it was a copy protection measure.

So now I just don't buy anything from Bioware. I can't believe anyone still does those shitty copy protection crashes/glitches. The only thing they ever do is ruin the experience for your actual fucking customers.

Besides, how is it even supposed to discourage piracy? The pirate who has the game crash on him isn't going to reconsider his life choices, he's just going to think the game is shit. They also give devs a bad reputation. Everyone thought Titan quest was glitchy as hell. But that was just the DRM fucking with everything. And so Iron Lore went out of business. That reminds me of when I built a home theater PC for my Mom one year. I bought a Blu-ray drive and paid for a license for some ArcSoft media player, which was bullshit but I did it anyway.

So after buying a stack of Blu-rays, about half of them ended up playing only audio and then turning the entire screen black. Once the screen turned black, there was nothing I could do to make the screen come back on short of a hard reset. I looked into it and it turns out that the black screen is a feature of the DRM built into the Blu-ray drive.

Needless to say, I ended up just torrenting the movies and never bought another Blu-ray drive again. Fucking DRM bullshit never ceases to amaze me. DRM only hurts paying customers, every time. I got a bluray drive - but it's more for data.

Honestly the only players I'd trust for blurays are things like VLC, AnyDVD HD, etc. that bypass the shit DRM because the official ones like Arcsoft suck.  I haven't had much issues on the other Bioware games I own, it seems like it's just this one that got specially shitty DRMs. Jesus - ProTools.  Right up there with AutoCAD in the "I'll make your ass regret actually buying this POS" category. I had to do with windows once.. needed to change my brother's network card.. for some crazy reason, windows deactivated it self and Microsoft tech support was useless.. i gave up and pirated it..  I know some programs that limit themselves to a single computer do so by ensuring the MAC address is the same. Every network card has a unique MAC address, so changing the network card would change the MAC address of the computer and cause that program to stop working. I wouldn't be surprised if Windows used a similar system.

That said, there are ways to spoof the MAC address on the card and make it think that it has the address of the old card. Back in the XP days, they tracked changes to your hardware. My copy got deactivated a few times while changing parts, I had to call microsoft to get them to activate me manually. 

I think after a while I just installed an activation crack so I didn't have to bother, as I was basically slowly replacing my computer part by part as I could afford upgrades. AFAIK windows is currently tied to the motherboard, so if you get a new motherboard you need a new license for windows. But you can replace every other part and it will still work. 

In addition, i believe it will still work if you replace the motherboard with one of the exact same type but that may not be true. Activation is tied to a combination of parts installed on the computer. If you change the parts one at a time (which you should be doing anyway) and boot up, it will prevent the deactivation from being tripped. If you have to replace the entire board + peripherials at once or are moving the license to another machine, you can uninstall windows before doing so. If that's not an option (your computer died or your harddrive crashed), you can call Microsoft and they will manually reset the activation.

Of course, given the clusterfuck that is Windows licensing, there are exceptions depending on the license type, the way that it was purchased, and whether or not it is an odd-numbered Tuesday in a month that has an even-number of vowels in its name or something. Check your EULA for details. It's kinda like how in grade school, the entire class got detention for what the class clown did.  &gt;bad behaviour

What the fuck does removing film grain have to do with bad behavior?

This isn't a measure to stop hacking, and piracy. A DMCA complaint against film grain is a measure against film grain.

This is akin to "stopping piracy" by banning all internet downloads. Blocking the mod to remove film grain might have just been a side effect of blocking the mods that people cheat with.

Or they might be one of those developers that think that everyone needs to see their cinematic vision. They've released their first good game in ages and already ensured many people won't be buying from them again. This is going to be a PR nightmare. This will pretty much guarantee a move to the pirated (moddable) 1.2 version.   

A hearty congratulations to the suits at Techland thinking this won't encourage piracy. And multiplayer stuff works perfectly fine on pirated version so they don't have any cards in their hand. Wow really? How does it work? I thought you needed steam or something to play online As far as i'm aware you just have to install fix and you can play either through cracked steam or through Tunngle or similar. Usually yes, but they added a LAN option so you can just go for Tunngle with no special fix. 

^^Please ^^devs ^^don't ^^let ^^this ^^stop ^^you ^^from ^^adding ^^LAN, ^^pirates ^^would ^^make ^^it ^^work ^^anyway, ^^you ^^just ^^hurt ^^your ^^product ^^and ^^the ^^consumer. DRM only ever hurts the legit customers. It barely affects pirates. Barely meaning not at all/a minor inconvenience because no matter what a company does, someone will find a workaround. To be fair,if it holds for the first week,the DRM did its job well enough,because for some stupid reason people keep buying AAA games on release,expecting them to have stable releases. Do you think its the devs who make the choice? That is someone in manglemant for sure. [deleted] Wow I guess they messed up pretty bad... Moral of the story? Don't be a dick. Not really as far as the online goes. The vast majority of pirated games can be played on illegitimate servers, the only ones that cant are the ones that rely on server-side interaction that cannot be spoofed, which basically boils down to mmo's and the like. I don't know any non-exclusive games released on consoles that can't be pirated and played online MMO's can be pirated, plenty of decent sized private WoW servers. Though it is quite difficult and takes a long time to get most the bugs worked out. [deleted] [deleted] It just reduced their sale numbers by at least one, and I won't be talking about this game at all outside of this thread. I'm sure I'm far from the only one. Yeah. I was only planning to get it on console anyway but, as a show solidarity with my fellow gamers, these guys can jam their game right back down their slimy dickholes Yup, same here. Just removed it from my wishlist. Too bad, I enjoyed Dead Island enough to actually give this a try.  I won't even bother to pirate.  There's so many games available last years,  devs acting like this make the choice easier.  Yeah, I don't know whats up with the developers - They produce a decent game and then try to ruin it with all means possible.

In Germany there is a region lock, i.e. you can't even activate keys from countries where the game is uncut, unless you use a VPN. (which, while somewhat unenforced, is against Steams SSA and puts your account at risk)

There is not a single reason to do this to your players - It is perfectly legal to buy, play and own games in Germany that are placed on the index as long is you're 18 years or older. It's advertising and publicly selling them which is illegal here.

So yeah having to buy a global key from outside of Steam, setting up a VPN and risking your Steam account or pirating a free version without DRM - What a great fucking choice.

 It's possible, perhaps probable, that the people who make all these decisions(in many games) are business people who have little to do with making the game. The real devs are likely often forced to do a lot of anti-consumer crap and go along with it publicly. You're absolutely right - I used the wrong word (language barrier...). When I said 'developer' I meant whoever is in charge of these things for Dying Light. That would probably be the publisher, which would be Warner Brothers in this case. What's really bizarre about this, is there was a meeting about this. Some Lone Ranger didn't just wake up one day and decide to do this.  They all sat down and put their minds together and thought this was the best move. I just want to know how that conversation went. I want to know how it came up. I want to know if these people learned about the modding and decided to act or previously decided they wouldn't allow modding. I hope one day someone can give us a non PR speak rationale for it. For any game really not just Dying Light. This probably ain't a move on behalf of the developers.  Totally agree...fucking region locked and censored bullshit. It's like we're kids that constantly need to be watched not to hurt themselves with graphic material... I like Germany but I really don't like the editing and what feels like censorship of content. Thats because the older generation that make up these suits think that games are just toys for kids like in the nes days. I was under the impression that certain things were verboten in Germany. Swastikas for example.  This is why there was an alternate version of either Wolf3d or Doom (I forget, prob Wolf) that had to be sanitized before it was released there. The swastika thing, if I remember right, is fine for art. Movies and paintings can have them.

Video games are considered "children's toys" and so don't fall under the "art" category. Who ever decided that needs to get a clue.

It's kind of the same reason the highest game rating some places have is 15+. Or buying from them at all. I was planning on picking up the game when it was on a decent sale. Having serious second thoughts now. Not that I care about mods when it comes to a game like this, but it's pretty blatant anti-consumer behavior. Game wasn't on my radar at all, but since I heard it was good and I just finished the game I was previously playing I was planning on buying it after work today. They can kiss that sale goodbye.  [deleted] And it's especially strange since they did several things before release that seemed gamer friendly.  Like the reversal of the zombie mode being preorder only.  I don't see that as gamer friendly.

More like a reaction to getting burned.

Gamer friendly would be never even considering it. What's the story here? That playing as a Zombie was originally pre-order only? [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] You mean like not giving out review copies until 12 hours before the game came out unless you signed a sponsorship deal? Yeah, great things...  Are mods that big of a deal for games made by Techland? Granted, whoever issued the DMCA takedowns is dumb and this doesn't make Techland or Warner Brothers look good, but I don't think disallowing mods are going to be the thing that sinks Techland. Any outrage caused by this wouldn't even be comparable to the reaction that Bethesda would get if the next Elder Scrolls game disallowed modding.

**EDIT:** Just to be clear, I'm in favor of allowing people to create mods and alter their game to suit their preferences. I'm questioning the idea that if Techland disallowed mods for their games then the company would be in financial trouble. Dead Island had a few mods that tweaked the balance of the game. How fast stamina depletes from running/kicking/swinging, that sort of stuff. That was cool. 

There were also tweaks to deal with the horrible FOV, which luckily isn't an issue in Dying LIght.

Modding for Dying Light is not really a huge deal but if it's anything like Dead Island it would be nice to be able to tweak the game balance. Even if this means multiplayer is disabled. There's already some amazing mods for DL, like removal of Chromic Abberation, Film Grain, and other graphical improvements. 

 Wait you can't disable film grain in the game? That's completely awful, what the actual fuck. I think it's simultaneously hilarious and sad that we talk about "amazing mods" that *remove* parts of the product.

I agree though, and have no idea why so many games don't give us the options to toggle the postprocessing effects we want and don't want. Oh man, the CA is already gone? I'll have to plop that in before the new update hits, just so I can see it properly for at least a while. It was more of an issue in Dead Island since they seem to have fixed some or all of the more idiotic design choices that were in the old game in Dying Light Except weapon durability levels are still an anti-fun joke. The way i see it a game being difficult to mod is one thing. But to actively harass the modding community and to go out of your way to block single player mods is beyond scummy. They already lost my money over the preorder bullshit and this whole secondary fiasco is why they are going on my boycott list. I'm sure the average person probably doesn't care, but I do. Yep, I won't criticise a developer for not going out of their way to enable modding, but purposefully trying to stop it is boneheaded, and using DMCAs to do so even more.

Even if you throw multiplayer into the mix it doesn't work out. If you're trying to ensure everyone is using the same assets/unmodded, then enforcing a 'pure mode' and checking should be part of anti-cheat, and even games which have a pure mode/anti-cheat can let you toggle it off to allow mods at your own risk. It's not about if there are any good mods out there. It's about the potential of such mods and the message this sends to gamers. They are basically saying: Screw you, if you want to mod our game, even in SP only, then we will issue these DMCA claims, which is just ridiculous. Other companies' games just can't straight be modded, which sucks as well, but at least they're not threatening you... I'd argue mods are a big deal for any PC game. There are people still playing games like VtM: Bloodlines or Titan Quest on the back of mods. It's understandable that not all games can be made to be modifiable, but to have a game's developers purposefully trying to stop people modding a game that already is?

Honestly, I think people are far more against the mentality on display than the inability to mod a single game. Yeah, if a game just isn't moddable (or hard to mod) then that's one thing, and is honestly fine. But actively *discouraging* modding when its possible is fucking ridiculous. Who gives a shit what I do to the single-player part of a game? LITERALLY NO-ONE BUT ME. Most people don't really care if a game isn't mod friendly. There are plenty of games which aren't. Mods are nice and all and can definitely influence how successful a game in on PC, but it's not that huge of an issue when games don't have a massive mod community.

But when a game actually goes out of its way to make modding difficult, well now that just rubs everyone the wrong way. How the hell do you expect people to pay $15 for a new gun when modders can add every gun ever created by mankind? Skyrim did pretty good on DLC sales. Mods actually boost their sales
 I wanted to play the perkus maximus mod, but it required all of the dlc. I ended up buying the dragonborn dlc specifically for the mod! One thing Bethesda does is add new features quasi-under the hood in their DLC/expansions. New scripting methods, new meshes, etc. They've been doing it since Morrowind; the Tribunal expansion added a lot to the game engine.

All that encourages modders to make use of the DLC's resources, so their mods require the DLC, so players buy the DLC to use the mods. It's an interesting little ecosystem. I actually woke up this morning to buy the game. Now? HA. Another game I won't spend my time with.  It's a shame.  I think their Chrome Engine is pretty nice. Except that they do not seem to have good multi-threading, which makes the game CPU-bound to the speed of one core: http://community.pcgamingwiki.com/gallery/image/1106-dyinglight-cpu-usage/
  Yeah, Call of Juarez Gunslinger was very smooth even on my old rig.  Game itself wasn't awful either. I liked it. This is crazy. I don't see why they're  doing it.

If I wanted to play devil's advocate i would say that they don't want the mods because it compromises their artistic direction in terms of gameplay and whatnot, but really?

They wouldn't have released shitty games in the past if their direction was so perfect.

On the other hand i don't think there has been a game so far that allowed mods and didn't benefit from them. The worst thing about disabling modding is that it also removed the ability to mod several graphics things that were allowing users with AMD CPUs to play the game at a reasonable framerate. One of them essentially removed all sun lighting and shadows, which ruins the atmosphere of the game, but gives you a pretty hefty framerate boost. That particular mod isn't working anymore, which really sucks for people like me. I've got a pretty good rig that is just crippled by this one game for some reason.

I really hope they allow modding again. It's not like this is some sort of competitive game. Let people do silly shit, it's the kind of game that BREEDS fun from silly shit. Also, more importantly, let people mod your game to work on their systems. Or, better yet, improve the performance of the game to work on more systems. It's multithreading issues.
 What would be the reasoning behind this? mods make the game a lot better and increase sales without any cost to the developer. A fundamental lack of understanding of how the gaming world functions. Is it a single player only game? It has co-op and a competitive 4 vs 1 multiplayer mode. The competitive part of the multiplayer will probably die within a couple of months as it usually does then we'll be left with a coop- / singleplayer game without any mod there to improve its replayability / length. Be The Zombie is already dead in my region (South East Asia). I can no longer search for a room with invasion mode enabled anymore. Geeze, that was fast. A few days to die? I mean, it is SEA. Outside of major games you should expect it to die here. Red Orchestra 2 and Chivalry have maybe 2-3 servers max from what I usually see at peak times, same with many other games like space engineers or the likes. Just gotta deal with playing overseas. It died day 1 because of sloppy implementation, extremely aggressive matchmaking, and a lack of any balance whatsoever. It's nearly impossible for the humans to win against a competent zombie unless they're all packing guns and flares.

The matchmaking is also total shit because Techland didn't think to close a game to other zombies that are looking to join. So once a zombie joins a game, other zombies will see that game and try to join, and then it will just instantly kick them. But it won't tell them that the game is full, so people will just keep trying to join and get kicked.

And for humans that are brave enough to leave their games open to invasion (or too impatient to look through the online options,) they will get invaded almost non-stop at night. I had one player curse me out constantly because I wouldn't leave his game. He threw ever expletive at me that he could think of because he didn't know he could turn off invasions. For real, pretty obvious modding has helped Skyrim a ton on the PC.  Or Oblivion, Morrowind, Fallout 3 or Fallout NV.  Hell, Fallout 3 still has a thriving mod community. Probably all of them do - but Fallout 3 is the oldest I am actively paying attention to.

I think Bethesda learned their lesson well. [deleted] Lesson meaning since Morrowind all of Bethsda Softworks RPGs have been moddable and they noticed that it seems to have encouraged sales and interest between the multi-year gaps between releases. And they've made a point of making the tools available so people can do things more easily. Bethesda's mod tools are some of the most user friendly and easy to use in the industry.  About a year after Morrowind released, I was making little mods for it just for my own personal use, basically cool little bases and hideouts for my character, and I was a 14 year old with no coding experience whatsoever.   I bought Skyrim on PC after already owning it on 360 because of mods. Originally not so much, however they learned with Morrowind onwards that being mod friendly drives sales. I imagine a lot of people only bought Skyrim on PC because of the modding community, I know for sure that I did.

If they were anti-modding they'd probably kill most of their PC user interest in their franchises. Absolutely right, I have almost 100% completion in skyrim on the Xbox 360 but I bought the game again when I got a PC just so I could play with mods. For sure.  I'm playing New Vegas for the first time, modded up, it is amazing. GTA SA, a 10 year old game is still thriving with a huge modding community, let alone a Multiplayer mod called SA-MP with over 40 thousand active players.

 Imagine if this happened to Skyrim at the start, hardly anyone would be playing now Just look at mount* and blade for the gods sake !

It still lives because of moding community. Mods can also be used to cheat in multiplayer games. I think they're trying to prevent this. Still not a good way to do it. They're implementing the DRM in single player as well. From what I understand the two are deeply linked. You can play the entire game with drop in/drop out co-op. Add in that players can invade the games of others in "Be the Zombie" mode and it may be an unfortunate necessity to impact single-player as well. Tbh, I'd be very pissed if some little fuck joins my game and gives me 999999999999 money and ranks up all my skills, but I don't open my game up to Multiplayer anyway.

But fuck, I want mods. They might also be worried that it'll have an impact on DLC sales in the future. "Why pay for more content when you can download it for free?" - I can imagine this thought popping into some executive's head and making perfect sense. Hopefully they'll end up reversing this decision as the game itself looks pretty good. None of the mods add dlc like content. All they do is small things like remove film grain, make lock picking easier etc...

I don't even think you can create DLC like mods for dying light, it's not that modifiable. I've talked to a guy working there a few years ago. Apparently there were/are some toxic and abusive managers. I doubt their kind needs "reasons". Imagine Arma 2 sales without DayZ. To be completely honest, DayZ ruined the Arma community. I would be just fine going back to before DayZ when you could join a server and play with like-minded serious people and not 12-year-olds screaming into a mic like Xbox Live. I don't even care that Arma 3 would likely not have been built as Arma 2 is still the better, more full-featured and stable product.   Purposely stopping modding is a great way for decreasing the longevity of your game. 

Honestly, I wouldn't really worry about this; Techland is not exactly good at programming if not outright incompetent so anything they put in as DRM to stop mods will probably be easily removable. It's not like they can just tell people they can't edit the game, you can't do that as long as your not adding copyrighted materials. The effectiveness of whatever they put in is irrelevant to the issue here. The fact that they're attempting to stop people from making mods is the issue and that intent definitely appears to be there.  It is something that the Battlefield community discussed a while ago. Battlefield 2 still having an active community due to Mods such as Project Reality. 

Most people see this as a way to increase the sale of their DLC packs and nothing else.  700 hours spent on Skyrim. I wouldn't even have spent 100 hours on it without mods. Heck one of the main selling points for Skyrim during sales *is* the huge modding community it has. I've spent 200+ hours on Oblivion, and not even 20 hours of it on original content, only mods. 

Many other good games, like Gothic 3 or VtMB, were a mess until release of community patches. 

Every dev who try to fight with modders, will never, ever, get my money. 
 Just look at Talewords and mount and blade.

That game is 40% mods and it still lives, has amazing community and even has a competitive scene of it's own. Man, I don't think I ever even played vanilla M&amp;B, its all mods. Extra DRM is never good because it ends up impacting the end user somewhere along the line, their protection will end up having some sort of cost at the end users expense not just the inconvenience of being unable to mod. More hoops to jump through are never good. "blocked cheating by changing game's data files"

So....by enabling the ***built in Oculus Rift*** support, I'm now cheating?

What a fucking joke. The rift support is a joke anyway.  But yes, it's fucked up. If the security in your game is fragile to the point where film-grain tweaks pose the threat of hacking, you should probably fix that before the game goes gold, rather than filing DMCA requests to retroactively create a quarantine.  Wait, this is all from a film grain tweak? Film grain is just a shitty way to make games look less bad, even though film grain is horrible to look at anyway. Film grain and Chromatic aberration is being a real pain in the ass for a lot of people cos it looks like shit and gives you a splitting headache.

As to why they've forced FG and CA on a first person view game in the first place I have no idea cos I'm fairly sure that if I started to see shit like that naturally I'd go straight to a neurologist.

Sadly you get this turd a lot cos art directors tend towards the 'not too bright' side of the scale and don't seem to understand cinematographers and photographers use CA to determine whether their glass is good. (as in, if there's CA the lens elements are out of alignment and your glass needs replaced cos it's fucked).
 I don't understand why developers make amazing graphics and then overlay them with fuzz and grain. And when people clearly prefer the alternative they fight back. What do they stand to gain ? As someone who handles DMCA tickets for a file hosting site, I find it rather laughable that they're trying this. They have no grounds to remove the files as they do not a) modify or alter the game that circumvent the games' DRM, b) the files are not the game itself (either as one file or in a split archive) and/or c) do not contain any closed source code or other copyrighted fragments of the game. This portion is generally related to someone stealing game textures and trying to make a mod from them or using physics found in one game and implementing them in another. 

It shows that those who are removing these files from the other hosting companies have no idea what a game mod is, and assume it's illegal simply from a takedown request of a company that just uses scripts to scan a website. We, those hosting these files, are allowed to reject them if they cannot fully prove the file violates copyright law. 

FYI, I'm not a lawyer, and given this is related to something legal, feel an obligation to say I'm not suggesting any legal advice to anyone. I'm just going by the policy that my site goes by.  Shooting themselves in the foot right there.

The pirate version of the game can be played online in COOP with very little set up and virtually no loss of functionality.

They have just pushed all their modding community onto the pirate version, Why bother playing the legit version if you cant play it the way you want to play it.

Basically they have just removed their own ability to sell DLC, your not going to spend money on some shitty little DLC when you can go &amp; download it for free, especially if you already have the cracked version.

(GTA4 is a pretty decent example, if you went by GFWL live it would appear the game had virtually no player base months after release, but in fact DUE TO GFWL preventing mods, all they did was push almost their entire player base onto a cracked version of the game.) DMCA is a claim that someone is distributing something you own the copyright for without permission, *on penalty of purgery*.

The DMCA against the anti film grain instructions, an entirely seperate written work by a redditor, is in no way their copywrite.

TL:DR; they just purgered themselves The DMCA is abused constantly. Nothing ever comes of it. It's perjury, and perjured. 

Purgery is something else entirely;

&gt;  the part of a sugarhouse where molasses is drained from the sugar 

http://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/purgery

Edit: But you are wrong anyway. The DCMA is also about circumventing code. By the mere fact that this mod interferes with game code to block/override a film grain effect means the owners of that program have legal redress.

It might be a shitty thing to do, but they have the backing of the law to do it. No. It's about circumventing protection code. Modifying the code in other ways is protected by fair use and discussing those changes is protected by free speech. It's funny because their last game, Dead Island, was pretty shit until the modding community fixed a lot of things that should have been fixed.

I was really going to buy this next week, but honestly, I might just skip it or pirate it now. Well, that ensures that I won't be dropping any money on this then. Which is a shame, it looked really good.  Really? I mean really?! I wanted to buy this game on PC. I never buy on release because of being stung too many times with shitty PC ports that need a month of patching to get the game up to scratch and now Techland has shown me you can release a pretty damn good pc port and still fuck it up just a few days later. 


Sigh. This is sad. I'm still playing Skyrim on a regular basis BECAUSE of the mods. I originally pirated it because I was poor but then it was so good I paid for it with my next pay cheque and brought all the DLC as it was released. 


Someone has seriously dropped the ball here in understanding what it is that PC gamers want. I just don't know. In this day and age it seems so strange that companies are still lagging behind in understanding consumers.  It's one of those cases where I guarantee it isn't the devs that did this, it's the publisher. WB is on its way to becoming Ubisoft, but Techland shouldn't be blamed for that.

WB has been pushing preorder DLC like crazy, for one. Arkham City is a big one that comes to mind, with like 10 different costumes spread across different retailers. I didn't follow Arkham Origins as closely, but I'm pretty sure they had similar preorder content. Dying Light also had Be the Zombie, an entire mode, as preorder before the delays happened.

And WB has also been ass at giving out review/preview code. Shadows of Mordor, despite being a good game, was given an initially negative reaction because WB wrote up a ridiculous contract for Youtubers that wanted to showcase it, and they also waited until the 11th hour to send out review code for this game.

Given all of that, and the fact that Techland has been fairly accepting of mods with the Dead Island series (iirc, the 5th character in Riptide was inspired by the Fist of the North Star mod for the original game), it's obvious that WB is the one pulling this shit.
 Good luck with that, trying to stop modding is like trying to stop piracy, it's impossible and it will hurt your sales.  I... Don't understand.  Mods are a good thing.  Mods attract people to games.  Mods create free marketing for years.  Mods keep people coming back, and keep people interested in more of your/that type of game.  Mods even get kids into programming.  Break the illusion that you have to be a genius or super nerd to be capable of that sort of stuff.  

I mean, look at what mods have done for minecraft and skyrim.  The only reason minecraft kept it's allure was mods.  And skyrim is constantly on the front page and various gaming forums due to new mods.  Hell, I originally bought it on the 360, only to break down buy it for the PC -- because I wanted the mods so badly.  They got 2x the business from me because mods.  

Growing up I got into computers because of mods.  Learning to install and troubleshoot them.  Learning to tweak them.  Learning to make them all by myself.  I wasted a good year of my life on simcity 3000 mods.  And if it weren't for those mods, I probably wouldn't have played simcity all that much, and definitely wouldn't have been so interested in later generations of simcity.  ...

So why are devs fighting mods so hard lately?

edit: also, haven't they learned yet that overly restrictive practices simply lead people to using pirated versions?  I feel like all they're accomplishing here is 1. decreasing sales and 2. increasing pirating.  And I imagine in the name of fighting piracy...  I just tweeted at them, for all the good it may do, don't sit there and take this bullshit. Tell them how shitty this practice is. We got the be the zombie bonus released to all players, I think this could be reversed as well 

[Twitter](https://twitter.com/TechlandGames) I hadn't even heard of this game before, and now my first impression of it is that I want to stay far away... Modding is a free, community-rewarding way of extending the game's life and playability. Devs should already have learnt to allow creative constructions to the game that doesn't negatively affect other players. To put this in perspective, even Ubisoft lets people mod their games.

There are a decent amount of Far Cry mods out there. Well, it's nice of them to make my purchasing decision for me. Guess I won't bother buying their game after all. And this game has lost all my interest. I won't even learn the genre of it now. Good job alienating your customers! Why even bother?The game isn't even a competitive multiplayer game. And that's the only way it would make sense to block mods, and even then there are some tolerable mods, like removing film grain and aberration. Funny thing. A lot of people usually cry out "Was going to buy this game but now I won't!" etc. Well, I'm kinda on the same boat, but I was only seriously considering in buying the game as it looked fun and cool. Now I feel sorry for the game developers. It's time to pre-emptively wait a week before buying any game published by Warner Bros. Ridiculous review embargos, not sending out review copies at all, attacking mods, their behavior grows more hostile to players every single game and it won't stop until first-day sales collapse. [deleted] [deleted] I would have thought that fair use would actually protect modding seeing as that modding is a derivative work. Is there something I'm missing or are all laws regarding copyrights and patents so broken that we are at the point where a complete rework of the broken system is necessary?  This isn't how you get support from players, Techland/WB. Tightening the leash on your game to prevent modding will just chase people away, and the MP aspect of the game isn't nearly good enough to warrant restricting people from cheating. Otherwise, who cares if someone cheats their way through a game. Oh good. I was trying to convince myself today that I should hold off on purchasing it, but they made the decision for me! So convenient. **UPDATE: Techland has responded.**

&gt; "With the recent patch (1.2.1) on Steam we blocked cheating to make sure the game's PvP system (Be The Zombie) would not be abused. This, however, had the side-effect of hindering mod-makers from making changes to the game."
&gt; 
&gt; "Creating obstacles for modders has never been our intention. We are now working on a quick patch that will re-enable common tweaks while stopping cheating in the games multiplayer mode."
&gt; 
&gt; "At Techland, we have always supported the mod community, and loved seeing how our own game can be changed by the players. A big part of the original Dead Island's success was the passion and creativity of mod-makers from our community. We want the same for Dying Light."

(via [GameSpot](http://www.gamespot.com/articles/dying-light-pc-patch-blocks-fan-mods-updated/1100-6425041/))

With regard to the DMCA issue, PC Gamer reports:

&gt; As for complaints about DMCA takedown notices, documented in this Reddit thread, that have also impacted the creation and distribution of mods, a Techland rep said it's not entirely clear why they were issued, or even who issued them, and that the developer is looking into the matter separately.

(via [PC Gamer](http://www.pcgamer.com/techland-working-to-restore-dying-light-mod-support-and-address-dmca-claims/))

The ESA has also apologized.

&gt; ESA was notified this morning that potentially erroneous DMCA notices had been transmitted by one of its vendors. Upon further review, it was determined that the notices should not have been sent and retractions were issued immediately. We regret any inconvenience and have taken steps to avoid similar situations in the future.

(via [Ars Technica](http://arstechnica.com/gaming/2015/02/esa-apologizes-for-dmca-claim-on-dying-light-mod-files/)) What people don't get for some reason, is that the equipment you have in Singeplayer will be used DIRECTLY when playing multiplayer.

So if you mod your game, the interconnectivity of the game gets messed up. Would people then be required to have the same mods as you, for you to play Coop, Be The Zombie? Or Will you be allowed to use your mods, despite the other players not having them?

While some mods are graphic enhancing, some will definitely also be impacting the combat aspect. This is where it will get troublesome.

It would probably be better for Techland to just make your game Singleplayer ONLY if they detect your files have been modded in anyway, rather than them trying to ban mods outright, as this seems to be an easy way to get crucified.  [deleted] [deleted] Looks like I won't buy this. Modding is the blood that keeps a game alive for a longer amount of time and they want to cut that off? How do they think Skyrim lasted for three fucking years? As someone who had only mild interest in this title, its things like this that will sway me from buying a game. Well done alienating your player base, guys. This is why people See pirating as a solution. 
The problem is that this game has so many unnecessary effects and so bad omptimisation that some purchasers do need to apply mods to be able to play at decent frame rates, people who have bought the game and have a better than minimum pcs. I mean blocking online mod is one thing, but nothing wrong with single player mods. In fact, the games that keep their values today are the ones that supported modding, such as crysis, such as gta iv. Proper official mod support would cancel the need for stupid drm exercises and installing illegal rootkits on user pcs.  If people will pirate a game (instead of paying for it) just because of this then that is a really weak reason at best. If people pirate it after actually buying the game though then I can understand that in this situation. It is way more common than you think. Peope buy a game only to go trough different frustrations, suchs as recursive drm chains that hit your pc performance, install illegal rootkits to hack your system to prevent any file to exist in your file system that might be of any risk to developer game files, which ends up bricking ssds and even normal hard drives. Then people go out, determined to to deal with this shit anymore as paid customers, and just pirate it. Valve had a philosophy, so much that people prefer steam versions of game that have drm free versions:The best way to fight piracy is to create a service that people need," he said. "I think (publishers with strict DRM) will sell less of their products and create more problems. Customers want to know everything is going to be there for them no matter what: Their saved games and configurations will be there. They don't want any uncertainty." This is one of the reasons peole hate origin and uplay, but love steam. And so this game finally slipped off of my buy list onto my ignore until it's ten bucks list.

Embrace your community or don't expect to have one for long. That's a really dumb reason to put DRM into a game.

Either people will pirate the game, or buy the game, then use some sort of crack to disable the DRM, then do whatever the heck they want.

It adds unneeded inconvenience to what is really a pretty good game. [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] I'd be asking for money back, and never again buy anything from Techland, rather than worry about how to continue playing what they've decided is too good for their customers. Seriously I just had one of the best coop experiences I've ever had in 20 years of playing video games and instead of embracing the growth of your game and your brand with post release modding you're going to go the DRM route?

IS ANYONE PAYING THE FUCK ATTENTION ANYMORE?  DO YOU NOT UNDERSTAND HOW THIS TREATING CUSTOMERS WELL SHIT WORKS?

It's mind boggling. Has performance been fixed yet? Or are they really gonna attack mods before fixing their fucking game? Guys, guys. This is very simple.

All we need to do is make mod repositories that are fluid. We can't have a DyingLightNexus for example but that doesn't mean it's mod community will die.

For example, you can't DMCA a torrent file hosted by many people ;^) We already have a Dying Light Nexus. I started it! But it was a rather pointless effort seeing as the only mods we can now make, for versions 1.2.1 and above, are video tweaks and such. When a publisher starts pulling crap like this, people are just going to pirate the game to get around the DRM. Aaaaand you lost tons of future sales from people like me that were waiting to see how this game held up.  I'm in that boat too.  Was going to give it  week or so, now I'm just like "meh."  If they're going to be complete dicks about how they're handling mods (on top of not having an option for something as simple as film grain...) I'm not voting with my wallet, it's simply apathy as I'm no longer interested in the game. Great, I planned on buying it and have been convincing my friends as well, but now I won't even waste my time pirating this piece of DRM shit. Go fuck yourselves Techland. They probably want to stop people from using their 9000 damage weapons against other players in the Zombie Invasions, top kek.

Anywho, great move Techland, see you on the other side of this PR stunt A terrible PR fiasco but people should realise that this will probably lead to fewer PC ports if they don't come to their senses.... Or if the community takes a "fine, I'll just pirate if I can't have everything exactly how I want it!" position on the issue.   Can't see developers taking any time to port to PC if the playerbase has no interest in purchasing titles. I love the dev's of this game. They keep releasing updates and all sorts for a game that is pretty much already fun and playable. 

Now they go and do this... Brilliant.  One of the devs here. Thank you. &lt;3 Seriously. I got into ETS2 just because sometimes it's fun to sit back and play a simple game. The long drives are relaxing. And the more I hear about SCSoft, the more in glad I bought it and have gotten a few friends hooked. Keep up the good work, guys. I love listening to Rock FM in Liverpool on Euro Truck 2. Something about listening to a morning show at night that seems surreal.  Sometimes I listen to that or Nation Radio-Cardiff is one of my faves. Are you working on American Truck Sim? I'm mostly doing community stuff and some tools for ETS2/ATS, so not directly. Shit, I was gonna ask if they have a release date in mind yet or around abouts. Their blogs and official page say 2 different things. 

Also when does the next DLC for ETS come out? I think the one with Prague and such (IIRC) No release date for ATS yet, and if you see any date posted, then [see this amazing flowchart](http://i.imgur.com/5q8CXBs.jpg) by /u/FartYOLO posted in /r/trucksim.

The new ETS2 DLC is Scandinavia, and it will come out in the next few months. Again no specified date, but we'll talk about it on our blog (and in ETS2 Steam hub announcements) later. I just looked at the American Truck Sim Blog - Holy shit, it's been updated quite a bit since I last vistited. *Puts on Reading Glasses*

Just some gratitude towards you guys over at SCS, keep up the good work - You're making us PC gamers proud Actually could you answer me 1 more question if you could: how come ETS doesn't have steam workshop support? One day. Hopefully. Hang on. I'm not following this flow chart. It's too confusing. Do I answer no? Few months?? I thought it would come out in March! :( Maybe you don't realise that Prague is in the base game, it's just called Praha. Took me a while with some of the slightly different names Be honest, you just want to haul beer from Texarcana to Atlanta.  Eastbound and down baby.  If they put a 78 Trans Am in ATS, I'll shit myself with glee.  And a Fred for the passenger seat. This needs to happen.  Make this happen. We gon' do what they say cain't be dun. They say that can't be done. I'm gonna do what they say can't be done  [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] Release Freedom Truck soon pls Crosscountry USA was the shit Thanks to you and your team for such an amazing game.

For anyone who hasn't played it, I know on the surface a truck sim sounds dull and silly, but it's honestly one of the best sim games on the market and has the best dev team that's super responsive to bugs.  Also frequent updates to the game just make it better and better. I just want to say, i've never player Euro truck sim, but thank you for making it. We need all the diversity we can get in gaming. I've always been a sim nerd but I wholly expected to give ETS2 maybe 30 hours tops. 62 hours later and waiting with baited breath for the Scandinavian expansion I can't recommend this game enough to anyone (obviously it has to be your type of thing in the first place).

My favorite thing to do in ETS2 is relax with a full length episode of Radiolab and a long distance trip. Thanks for that! Why can't every company do it so well? Most likely for most developers to secure funding to make an obscure game like a truck or farming simulator is near impossible.  Especially if it is not free to play, most investors want nothing to do with you.  The dev's behind Euro Truck 2 have been making these games for years, it wasn't until Euro 2 they finally struck financial gold and people took notice. Could you help me with a code issue? Support never emailed back and I have an unredeemed and nonfunctional code sitting somewhere 2 years back in my Reddit history.

If not, that's fine. Just didn't see any harm in asking.  Send me a PM with the problem/ticket number, I'll take a look. Steam workshop support would be awesome. Looking forward to buying ATS! Why don't you guys develop routes into Southwest France and Iberia? Yes, but what does this actually mean for the modders? What changes the way they have been modding so far? And what changes for me, the user? Ease of doing it probably. 

Full creative tools in one place - including textures. 

This actually could make multiple mods work together better because they have come from the same source.  You have all the tools you need in one place, and they're the ones the developer uses -- meaning you have much more capability and reliability than fanmade ones. (At least, at first)

You also get access to much more than you would with fanmade stuff, it's the difference between forcing content into something and using the tools to add it in gracefully and have more access to the back-end.

So as for the user, you get:

* better mods
* quicker releases of mods
* potentially better cross-mod compatibility There's similar support for Train Sim. Regardless of your stance on their DLC, you can't deny that they have a loyal modder base that makes everything from scenarios for existing routes to entirely new routes and rolling stock.  I know there are a few people that complain about the DLC in Train Sim, but I just don't understand it.  It has yearly updates that every Train Sim owner since forever gets for free and the DLC is only necessary to buy if you want to play with different trains or in different regions.
  
Imagine if Fifa or Madden gamers got the mechanics updates for free every year but roster updates had to be bought at a fraction of the cost of a new game.  People would love that, I think. You've also gotta remember that most of the DLC for TS2015 is also actually made by third-parties, and just published by Dovetail (Ala DCS World), so if you compare it with the vast amount of paid addons available for, say, FSX, or XPlane, then it's not actually that bad. I'm admitting here that I've spent entirely too much money on TS2015. But I also have a couple hundred hours into playing it.  Okay, honest question: What is fun about this game? Trucking is a generally unpleasant job; why would anyone want to "play" a trucking sim? It's a relaxing distraction - you've got forgiving time limits, agreeable but very slightly challenging routes, and the general graphics and scenery and atmosphere.

It's like going out for a relaxing drive, without the need to pay for fuel or deal with major areshole drivers in real life.

It lets you get into that state of 'flow' that you might sometimes find doing real driving or any other task that relaxes you.

I play using steering wheel and pedals. It's much more fun if you have a steering wheel, pedals (as is any driving/racing game), and possibly a stick shift. I just loved it for the physics involved, and the focus required.  Someone that hasn't played the game...

Its like crack in a sense, once you start you don't stop What does the modding scene for such a game look like? Do people create more than different vehicles? There have been entire *countries* added to Euro Truck Simulator 2 by the fans. Do you have a link to *the one very good website* with a huge collection of mods? I bought the game during the last winter sale and never saw a workshop link in the steam community, so I thought the game hasn't a modding community at all...I guess I will be suprised? http://www.promods.net has a really great updated map package. Ugh, I hate when the main page is a forum.  It means I am going to have to spend a few hours searching for what I need to download, how to install it and what it's not compatible with, then I will ultimately use a link from an old post and install the wrong version.

What's wrong with a landing page with clear directions? [Clear enough?](http://www.promods.net/viewtopic.php?f=2&amp;t=3852) Sweet, thanks! It does not take hours. It takes minutes to sign up and grab the game. They explain it on their webpage.

I dont really like doing it but its their choice to make. Also since they control the forum you know what version is the latest and official. Its very clear once you sign up for the forum. When you register and login, a Download link will magically appear. I hate forums, period. Such a messy system. hey buddy, guess what, you're using a forum right now. The messiest of forums. I absolutely hate threads on the internet, I stay away from any form of internet thread. Threads suck. hey buddy, guess what, you're in a thread right now. What?! Inconceivable! Unfortunately the mod sites suck. They lack categories, ratings, and functional searching. Check the forums for the most up to date mods. Also check the sub reddit. [They also largely lack good download services. Have fun going through dozens of "MYFREEUPLOAD" and "ZUM DOWNLOAD" and "FILES4U.NET" sketchy sites.](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4rnJ11DNM8k&amp;feature=player_detailpage#t=4058) That was really cringy to watch. Seems like it was their first time experiencing sites like that... Surprising for a games channel.
  
Reminded me of 15 years ago when I was surfing the internet for my first time with my parents present, them being overtly cautious about every single thing.

I guess I have just learned to process fake shit and shady internet sites much more efficiently after being exposed to it since I was little. I'm pretty sure that was all just for comedic affect. Hey, that just adds to the prize you get at the end, the mod! I was really hoping that link was the GB Quick Look. "Adblock?! You're a website engineer!" The whole thing is gold. Easily one of the funniest QLs. http://ets2mods.org/ has plenty, but I can't say for certain that it's the best. IIRC one of the big map mods, Pro Mods if memory serves, is hosted on it's own website.

There's tons of mods. Map expansions, more trucks, truck skins and even physics mods. Wait, can I create a McLaren F1 and use that to tow things in this game? Or say race it like an idiot on the highway? Do you want a 550 speeding fine?

Because that's how you get a 550 speeding fine. wait they fine you in the game? can you run from cops? Nope, there're speed cameras on the roads. Drive through one more than 5km/h (or so) over the limit and you get an automatic fine. There're intersections with red light cameras, too, and I keep forgetting that in Europe, turning right on a red is not allowed. There aren't cops, but you get fined for various things.  Mostly speeding, running red lights, and crashing into others. &gt;Mostly speeding, running red lights, and crashing into others.

Mostly crashing into others. I found speeding to be the bastard that would always catch me. Goddamn ninja cops and their voodoo sorcery Man, I remember the first time I didn't quite stop soon enough, and got a fine. 

I thought to myself: "Did I just get a speeding ticket in a computer game?" 

Then when I was searching for the key to turn on the wipers, I realized that this game has turn signals.

Turn signals! And you know the most interesting part of the turn signals?

The other drivers can actually read them. Putting a signal means cars will now stop when I need to turn left on a warehouse exit and such. Ah, the hidden GTA mode.. You have a wanted level and can run from cops in SCS's other truck driving games based in the US. So it's gonna be American Truck Simulator: Most Wanted? open console

&gt; g_police 0

no more tickets! Alright it's official:  GTA: Europe is coming to PC before GTA5. I personally use http://ets2downloads.com/

Of all the ETS2 mod sites I've been to, I find that one the cleanest and easiest to navigate.   &gt; I never saw a workshop link in the steam community, so I thought the game hasn't a modding community at all

This kind of thinking makes me very, very sad.  Well, I know *the old times* digging in some underground forums to mod the shit out of GTA III, but since Steam Workshop exists and Skyrim showed the potential, I got lazy tbh :o) Yeah, but I get where he's coming from. Things like workshop and nexus can be useful for managing mods rather than have to root through files. [Take a look at the ufficial forum too.](http://forum.scssoft.com/viewforum.php?f=24&amp;sid=d48cc5f5e3fede0cadb3a31317d42de6) But is there a mod that lets me drive a big rig through Westeros? These onions aren't going to deliver themselves. Damn. You dont hear a lot about these kinds of games, but the ones who play em seems to be really into them Yeah that's kinda the definition of a niche.. Do they have cities in America? I would love to drive around places that are familiar.  The developer is currently working on American Truck Simulator to be released sometime this year. The modding scene is pretty huge. There are new maps, new trucks, and also revamping of existing content.

But the biggest accomplishment of the modding scene IMO, is one that adds multiplayer functionality: http://ets2mp.com/
 Sort of lack luster at the moment. There's not a lot multiplayer can do in this sort of game.  I agree if you're a lone player there is not much to do.

But it's very popular amongst group of players who are truck enthusiasts, they get together in Teamspeak, paint their trucks with a certain pattern, pick all a certain cargo and go on convoys, they also take group screenshots like these: 

* http://i.ytimg.com/vi/4LrJD9yylow/maxresdefault.jpg

* http://cloud-4.steamusercontent.com/ugc/595910945693932537/84209FCA5BC52C8A3DAF90B8F932C0136F8E4522/1024x576.resizedimage That looks kinda fun tbh. I'd have to do it whilst drunk I think.  [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] There's a video floating around of a guy playing euro truck simulator 2 drunk with an oculous rift and a steering wheel/pedals. Its hilarious. I can finally fulfill my lifetime dream of drunk driving without being afraid of the cops. But cops would also make it super fun. High speed truck vs police chase across Europe. While drunk, using an oculus.  I just realized how much I want Oculus Rift support for GTA5 on PC. You shouldn't drive with an oculus rift on; you need to be able to see the road. Even if you're drunk. [This one?](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=uMT98U_iilY) And then get rammed by all sort of crazy truckers. That's the less fun part. [deleted] Multiplayer seems like a funny idea but I'd never play with it, I don't want my haul ruined by some guy going around T-Boning every truck he see's. 99.9% of people are not dicks online, and don't even go near you. One person even helped me get a truck out of a ditch. In my experience, assholes are actually quite common. The report section of the forums is constantly filled with reports. On my first day alone, I think I was rammed 3 or 4 times voluntarily. Get out of the fast lane. [deleted] Remember, these are people who have spent money on a truck simulator. I don't think there are too many online trolls  Game was included in the Humble bundle a few times now so don't be too sure I would do that.

Every now and then, It'd be pretty sweet to just know there was a chance you'd go past someone you're playing at the same time with in the game. Maybe drive together on the odd occasion for a bit of a change. That's why I'd want a multiplayer

No chance I'm using the one in parent above you though, can't be dealing with griefers and whatnot. Wish it worked locally. Heck give me some uncompiled code I'd make it work on my server  The problem i have found with the games mods is that some mods will be incompatible with others. Some will crash they game when you mix them with others.  Just like every other game with mods? I'm kind of curious how extensive the modding support here is...

Fan of John DeChancie's [Starrigger series](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/John_DeChancie#The_Skyway_Series) and all...

*edit*

Disappointing. Took a look at this more closely after work, and the "github repository" is just a wiki, not source code or an SDK.

Oh well, hope modellers have fun with the asset-oriented tools. SCS Software is definitely one of my favorite developers and should be the role model for many others. They are very supportive to their games and friendly to the community. But most importantly:

One huge factor that wins me over is that they don't have bullshit pricing and DLC practices like most developers do nowadays. Their DLCs are priced reasonably and add tons of contents to the game. Even the skin packs(paint jobs) are priced very cheap at $1 or $2 a pop which go at 25 cents during sales. 

Another very important factor is that they produce QUALITY games. The modeling of the trucks, graphics of the environment, physics in the game are all excellent. They are actively tweaking, fixing and adding new features to the game FOR FREE, unlike certain developers which I'm not gonna name.

At this moment, I'd take the chance to vent at Train Simulator or some other simulators. Ignore the following if you are die-hard defender of those games.

-------------------------------------------

Compared to what SCS software does, Train Simulator business model is shady as hell and they only get away because their target audience is niche and have no other options. 

I'm talking about the outrageous price of their add-ons. I personally BOUGHT and OWN Train Simulator game and I'm fully aware that you don't HAVE TO buy the all the add-ons which I don't plan in the first place. Also I completely understand the money and effort you have to spend to create the add-ons. But selling one or two piece of locomotives at $40 is just absurd when you have games like ETS2 which costs less and have LICENSES trucks which the dev team actually did laser scanning and actual sound recording(even re-recording as they were not satisfied with the initial result) in the field. I hear people say "yes, but it's still cheaper than collecting physical models in real life and it's aimed at enthusiasts yada yada...". But the thing is, the collectables have REAL values in real life due to their production limitation/rarity and tradeability while the train models in game are digital which can be duplicated and copied EASILY and you don't actually *own* them. Plus most of the add-ons don't have the details of a collectable model which leads to my other point below.

To add salt to the injury is -- usually their production value is not up to par at all. I have some add-ons to Train Simulator but god are the quality low. The texture quality is PS2 level and the sound is generic and sometimes plain wrong for the train model. But I guess I can't fault that to the add-on alone, the Train Simulator game engine is buggy and outdated as hell. I know they update the game every year for free if you have the game already. But in essence, what you get is and updated UI. The game engine, graphics are the same old every year.

I'm really just comparing them to SCS software. SCS software have more staff and more games/projects going on and yet, they are less nick'n'diming and don't exploit the niche market. You can say Train/Flight simulator has smaller audience, it's niche blablabla. But when you have developers like SCS and games like Euro Truck Simulator, they really have no excuse there. While I agree TS addons are very expensive, in their defense I would like to point out that many of these addons are actually produced by the community. So the developer merely distributes them as DLC and pays the modders.

Moreover, if the modder chooses to, they can release their content on the workshop for free: http://steamcommunity.com/app/24010/workshop/

Also the company takes steps to update the game every year for free to the newest edition and make sure if you purchased an addon for TS2012 it will still work in TS2015.

I must say I played more Euro Truck Simulator 2 than any Train Simulator, but I don't see Dovetail's practises as 'shady'. If a skilled ETS2 modder released a high quality truck or map I wouldn't mind paying for it to support him. Though I probably wouldn't spend $20 on it. Compared to the layout I'm building in my basement, Train Simulator and all the DLC is a fucking bargain. Model railroaders are a different breed. Yeah but what you have there actually worth a lot and the value will only increase the longer you have them. Usually they are crafted with good details and you can actually showcase them to people. &gt; But in essence, what you get is and updated UI. The game engine, graphics are the same old every year.

Don't forget they also update the name to reflect the current year! Amazing huh There actually is an alternative, it's called Trainz. Despite the stupid name, it actually has a simulation engine that is better in many places, such as more accurate air brakes and coupler strain. The UI also helps you control the train by manipulating the cabin controls instead of relying on sliders on a toolbar. I would love if someone made a western Canada (Alberta and BC) or if its in the American Simulator.  Driving from Calgary to Vancouver through the icy 2 lane undivided mountain roads in the middle of winter is so cool and terrifying. I'm almost certain Canada will be added as a mod to ATS, if the modding scene is going to be anything like that of ETS2. Only problem is Canada is over 2 times the size of EU and even if you include only southern part its still at least the same size as ETS 2 map so it would be a ton of work. Size doesn't matter. If you look at any roadmap, 99.9% of canada is empty wilderness with the ocassional highway.

Just to give some context: 

France has about the same lengths of roads as Canada ( http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_countries_by_road_network_size ).  Yes but the game will only have major highways and a few streets in cities.  The trans-canada highway itself is as long as all of France's highways combined.  Either way driving from west coast to east coast in game if the size is relative to ETS 2 will take an extremely long time, longer than any current trip possible in ETS 2 I think. Sounds like fun.  god I fucking hate going through the crowsnest pass into BC in the winter. Such a terrible drive with snow. I would for sure try it if somebody added it though!  You drive a truck or just regular vehicle? 
Crowsnest is scary in a regular car. Can't imagine those winds in a rig. I drive a pickup. Ive hauled a small snowmobile trailer through it, but never taken a semi on that road.  18 Wheels of Steel: American Long Haul is made   by SCS and it has the US, Canada and Mexico. They are currently working on American Truck Simulator but when they release it the game will only have California and maybe a couple of other states around it. They plan to keep working on other states and expand the map in form of DLC and free expansions.

It's a shame, but on the other hand the screenshots they've shown so far look really good and detailed. Finally some proper cities modelled after their real-life counterparts, not just the same 5 copy-pasted warehouses in every town. I really wouldn't mind if SCS added loading screens at toll booths. If it meant that I could have that much of a bigger world and more immersive cities, I would be exstatic. Being limited by RAM is a buzzkill. They very recently changed their engine (and released it as a free update to ETS) from 32-bit to 64-bit specifically to address that problem. 

&gt;**How will 64-bit executable affect your game?**
&gt;
&gt;64-bit executable is a purely under-the-hood technical change and should have no negative effect on how your game ecosystem works - all your saves, modifications, trucks, and input methods will work just as they used to before.
&gt;
&gt;**Why are you releasing the 64-bit executable?**
&gt;
&gt;Memory footprint of our game has been increasing over time with our expanding game world, new features and countless modifications for the players to choose from. The 64-bit executable will allow the game to access the entire physical memory of your computer and avoid out-of-memory crashes related to 32-bit memory limitations. Most modern PCs these days ship with considerably more memory, often 6-8 GB or more, and this memory could not be used with a 32-bit binary, where the limit was only 4 GB or even 2GB in case of 32-bit systems. The 32-bit game has been essentially starving for memory while several spare Gigs of memory were idling in the operating system.
&gt;
&gt;**What are the benefits of this change?**
&gt;
&gt;Using the new executable should alleviate memory related issues you may have experienced in the past - many users have already reported problems with memory limitations after installing large collections of modifications. Even for a game with no mods installed, with more textures and 3D assets cached in memory, the framerate should stay more stable during long play sessions.
&gt;
&gt;Map creators will have a smoother experience in the map editor as you'll have way more memory at your disposal. They should do the Cabot Trail in Cape Breton Island. Same idea, but with the added threat of falling into the sea. Heavy loads and driving as fast as possible sounds fun. Can anyone think of a single instance when official modding support has actually hurt a developer's brand or sales? The fear some publishers in particular have of modding is that it hurts DLC sales. Modding cannot really hurt main game sales as people need to own the game to mod it. If the developers create proper DLC that add good stuff to the game, then it isn't a problem, but if you want to sell FPS map packs for crazy prices then you have to restrict the community from making their own maps. Some devs like the ones who pump and dump map packs should fear modding. But some games modding is the only reason I got the dlc. Yeah, a lot of mods for Skyrim are actually made assuming you have all the dlc meaning some just don't work without them which I can only assume helped dlc sales.  And think about all the cool Skyrim mods that have that dreadful "You need the DLC to use this mod"

I bought the DLC just so I could install every mod I wanted! Skyrim also had really great, substantive DLC. No $103 for a new suit of armour bullshit. So devs needs to start adding new stuff in DLC instead of just map packs and we're fine.  Map editors would possibly harm map pack sales. That's all I've got. No, but there are countless examples of making companies a fuck ton of money.How many people would be playing Bethesda games without modding support? Every PC skyrim player I've talked to has at least one mod installed.Mods have started entire franchises, such as counter strike, which is now one of the most played games on steam (all 3 of them), and mods for Warcraft 3, dota, spawned an entire genre with multiple millions of dollars in the industry with esports competitions and whatnotMinecraft even though modding isn't supported, kidding I felt helped co tribute to the games popularity and longevity.Tldr: Support modding your games  Plus there's the large number of mods spawned from UT99/2004 that went on to become full games. Red Orchestra and Killing Floor are two great examples. Also Starcraft/Warcraft3 -&gt; Dota/LoL + Tower Defense &gt; How many people would be playing Bethesda games without modding support

Still loads. It's a very popular franchise, this includes the consoles to a great extent and you can't mod them. I think so many players have mods installed because the mods exist, and people talk about them *all the time*. It's hard to say how many people wouldn't have bought the game if they didn't exist.  Nope. I can find lots of info about helping the game move a ton of copies though.

Just Cause 2 for example:

"Of course we couldnt discuss our favorite mods for Just Cause 2 without mentioning the biggest and most ambitious mod of them all. I don't think any of us ever imagined that someone would make a multiplayer mod of Just Cause 2 while we were developing the game. I certainly didn't. But it's both amazing and humbling that people from our community spent so much time and effort on it. Taking on such a huge project is just crazy  almost as crazy as the gameplay in the mod! The popularity of the mod speaks for itself  it helped bring Just Cause 2 to new audiences, and helped keep our community thriving years beyond the initial launch.  Per Hugoson, Principal Programmer"

[http://www.gameinformer.com/b/features/archive/2014/12/01/the-just-cause-3-teams-favorite-mods-and-videos.aspx](http://www.gameinformer.com/b/features/archive/2014/12/01/the-just-cause-3-teams-favorite-mods-and-videos.aspx)

"The mod is absolutely fantastic, says Avalanche CCO and Co-Founder Christofer Sundberg. We owe those guys a lot. They have actually supported the game and helped it stay alive so many years after it was released. We dont expect the fans to make the multiplayer for Just Cause 3, but at some point you have to make a choice on where your focus is. Our strength is the sandbox experience, and we want to deliver a great Just Cause 3 experience.

[http://www.gameinformer.com/b/features/archive/2014/11/17/will-just-cause-3-have-a-multiplayer-mode.aspx](http://www.gameinformer.com/b/features/archive/2014/11/17/will-just-cause-3-have-a-multiplayer-mode.aspx)

"The mod and YouTube community kept interest in the game alive for years after launch and eventually pushed sales to more than six million units."

[http://www.gameinformer.com/b/news/archive/2014/11/11/december-cover-revealed-just-cause-3-29401230.aspx](http://www.gameinformer.com/b/news/archive/2014/11/11/december-cover-revealed-just-cause-3-29401230.aspx)
 Well, it does cost resources to release and support modding tool, so the benefit need to be important enough. Sometimes you don't even need to release a official modding tool. Just stay away from it and let the community find a way, if the game is good enough they will find a way of modding it.
Example Mass Effect 3 on pc, a fairly hostile game to make mods for, yet the community managed to create tools that allows the user to mod almost every aspect of the game, even unlocking content that was not supposed to be in the game, like the extended conversation you can have with Anderson, which was extremely short in the main game with large parts of the dialogue missing. CounterStrike being more popular than HalfLife? Dota spinning out of Warcraft 3? CounterStrike certainly helped valve.

Blizzard fucked up the handling of Dota itself ( They told Icefrog to make a SC2 version for free. He said no and went to go become a millionaire at Valve.) Did you know that Valve initially released Steam so they could release CS patches and have all CS games and servers be the same version.  CS was the best thing that ever happened to Valve and they know it. Ye but Dota also helped to WC3, I bought WC3 to play Dota on Battle.net.

Many people bought WC3 just to play Dota.

And CounterStrike certainly helped Valve. I've never really paid attention to any of these simulator games, but it's just occurred to me that I might be interested in this.

I like games that focus on exploration, and I like driving games with huge, pretty, open worlds to explore.  What is this game like in general, how pretty is it, and is there a mod that lets you drive a normal car and go places you're not supposed to?  (how much off-road is even modeled and drivable?) Gameplay pretty much consists from getting to point A to B as one would expect. Eventually you'll earn money to buy and customise new trucks. There's also a basic levelling up mechanic that lets you earn more money on certain deliveries. You'll eventually make enough to buy garages and hire other drivers to help make more money. That aside, you simply make deliveries. It's a simple game but really relaxing. More proactive than say, a train or airplane sim but not too much to be stressing. There's also in in-game radio that's hooked up to a bunch of internet radio stations all over Europe so you can listen to Czech rock radio if you wanted to.

Map wise, it's actually a compressed version of Europe so don't expect anything too large or elaborate. Cities for example are just a few streets with landmarks off in the distance but you can't reach them. Having said that, it's still a very large map and the Poland and Scandinavia DLC makes it even bigger. Most of it looks the same but the DLC has more variety to it. If that's not good enough, there's always the Promod and other mods which can add size and variety.

There isn't any off-road given that you spend most of it on highways in trucks. But there are mods which let you drive cars about. In fact, the mod scene is pretty healthy.

On a side note, wheel support is fairly good. I've used it with my Driving Force GT with no problems. &gt; More proactive than say, a train or airplane sim

Maybe if you're flying a passenger liner on cruise control for 4 hours at a time.

I assure you, flying CAS missions in [one of these](https://i.imgur.com/i4CqyyD.png) is plenty engaging :P &gt; What is this game like in general

You start taking "quick jobs" with trucks from the companies that hire you. 

When you make some money (or take a loan), you can buy your own truck to earn more money, upgrade it, customize it, paint it, buy more garages and upgrade them, hire drivers.

And then there's a multiplayer mod so you can go on the road with your friends: http://ets2mp.com/


&gt; how pretty is it

It looks good enough for a simulator IMO.

&gt; and is there a mod that lets you drive a normal car and go places you're not supposed to?  (how much off-road is even modeled and drivable?)

There are mods that expand cities and add new ones, but the map is heavily downscaled so you can go from Poland to Scotland in one (long) sitting, but it's still pretty big and it will take you many hours to achieve 100% map exploration.

I strongly suggest you check out the demo: http://store.steampowered.com/app/227300/ &gt; What is this game like in general

Enjoyable time-sink. I put over 250 hours into it before moving on to train simulator (which is the same enjoyable time-sink but content costs way more). AI may frustrate you at times but also keeps you on your toes.

There is an element of progress through levelling (unlocking long distance jobs, hazardous materials etc.) and as you gain cash you can buy garages in other cities and hire drivers to drive trucks, earning you a bit more cash each day.

Nothing to stop you just getting in a truck and driving around without having a job to complete though.

&gt; how pretty is it

Certianly not ugly. Here's [the base game](http://www.excalibur-publishing.com/wp-content/uploads/2014/05/ets2_00143.jpg). Detailing on the trucks is good. Come to think of it that screenshot may be taken on a map mod, but the game looks like that anyway. There are graphics mods but I never used them.

&gt; mod that lets you drive a normal car

Yes, but it makes truck noises and has 12 gears. May have been updated since I last played though. There's also a bus mod though again, it's a bit kludgey.

&gt; how much off-road is even modeled and drivable?

Little patches; no more than a field worth, and there are invisible walls. If you want off-road trucking, look up [Spintires](http://store.steampowered.com/app/263280/) which is highly rated. Spintires looks pretty cool.  Do you know if it's based off of real landscapes like (I assume) Euro Truck Simulator is? I haven't used any mods so far, maybe there are some for off-roading, but in vanilla ETS2 you can't go off-road. You can't even follow roads that are not necessary to get from one city to the other.

In my (not very well-informed) opinion, there are mainly 2 reasons why you might want to play this game:

1. You really like trucks. You like to customize your truck, play around with which lights and horns to put where, the color of your rear mirrors, the different gearboxes,... make sure you turn up the bass of your sound-system while playing.
2. You need some game that you can play while listening to your favorite podcast ;)

For me it was the latter -- I just can't sit down and do *nothing* while listening an hour to a podcast. But driving from A to B to C during that time is great :)

Also, the whole XP/Leveling and economic simulation aspect adds a feeling of achievment.

**edit**: as for "how pretty is it": See for yourself: [World of Trucks - Gallery](https://worldoftrucks.com/en/gallery.php) or [Steam screenshots](http://steamcommunity.com/app/227300/screenshots/) I found a brilliant survival game called The Long Dark. Nice wide open areas to discover. And no zombies. You might like it. I could see myself sinking serious hours into this game if they added more depth into the logistics/management side of things. Last time I played, buying garages, trucks and staff was such a grind. The amount of time it took for one staff member to make enough to pay for their truck completely negated the whole point of even trying to expand your business At least they tried to make it as real as possible. [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] So who's gonna make the first Batmobile with a trailer hitch? [deleted] Here's hoping someone makes a USA mod for this game. I love the game, but I am tired of Europe and right hand drive.

They could even have truck stops, lot lizards, and murders! actually, they're making [American Truck Simulator](https://www.facebook.com/americantrucksimulator.scs) too All of the map, save for Great Britain, is actually left hand drive :s I can see the forums posts already "what is a merge conflict and how do I make it go away?" I love git It's becoming increasingly clearer to me that the ext generation of game devs are the opportunistic modders of today. I thank every game dev that releases mod tools alongside their games.  Awesome. The game is fantastic and the mods make it shine even more. I only wish they'd add steam workshop support. I know I'm lazy but in the age of convenience, why not?! [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] While I can't really see myself ever being terribly interested in the truck driving genre, this is an example of great decisions coming out of a developer that needs to be rewarded. Man, you can't say that until you play it. You think ANYONE who regularly plays thought they'd like it to begin with? It just does *everything* right, and it feels great and satisfying to play. The music access alone is worth playing it. I drive IRL so its hard to justify. You think that after I park my truck at night and tell the lot lizard to go away that i'm going to hop on my computer and drive some more? As much as I love driving and great games one person can take so much. I'd end up doing the things I cant do IRL, like running over cats. Can someone please make a drug trafficker mod already? Someone make Australian Truck Simulator! Considering how many Europeans love driving around the outback there'll be some serious  in it for you. Being developed :)

http://oztrucksim.com/

 GASP. My heroes! (You for bringing it to my attention, them for what they do, everyone else because I'm in a great mood)

Thanks for the info! :) He'll be back. Next time he has an idea he can't keep to himself, he'll do something saying 'this is different'.

He has that kind of personality, thinking 'this time it will be different' while making the same predictable mistake time after time.

It will definitely be less interesting if he shuts up though. [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] Looks like he won't even be that strict about his promise of never talking to the press again:

&gt;Peter Molyneux has admitted regret and culpability; he was clearly in distress throughout the interview  an interview he told us would will be his last. An hour before publication, however, we discovered that he had spoken to the gaming news site Rock, Paper, Shotgun the day before, and had given their interviewer the same impression  that he would no longer be speaking to the press. He has also spoken to at least one other site, seemingly on the same afternoon as our discussion. Another trail of broken assurances.

Oh, Molyneux. I don't think he could ever let go and dammit, I still can't get myself to truly dislike him. I think it's pretty fair that he meant this last round of interviews would be his last cumulative public comment. Agreed. He likely made promises for several interviews before making that decision and honored them. Then he spoke his mind and told each that he was done with interviews. This has historical significance. He made promises. And he delivered.  Well, he originally promised interviews to 143 different publications, claiming that the interviews would be revolutionary and change the way the media discusses over promising and lack of follow through with developers. [deleted] [deleted] That just sounds like they're splitting hairs and putting that in there to create some sort of drama.  What he likely meant was "I will no longer be speaking to the press after this round of interviews." I thought it was just an easy joke about him.  [deleted] [Here is the RPS interview!](http://www.rockpapershotgun.com/2015/02/13/peter-molyneux-interview-godus-reputation-kickstarter/?utm_source=feedburner&amp;utm_medium=feed&amp;utm_campaign=Feed%3A+RockPaperShotgun+%28Rock%2C+Paper%2C+Shotgun%29)

Wow they didn't pull their punches... Without analyzing the question itself 'Is he a pathological liar', I think it's important to point out that a real pathological liar won't usually admit that they are.  It's a loaded question, when directed at this type of person.  If they are, they'll say 'no'.  If they aren't, they'll say 'no'.  You might get a 'why do you think that' or 'do other people think that', but there's very little hope of honest self-evaluation here. Dick move. 

Edit: fuck I just read the whole thing, that guy was such an asshole! That was rough, I don't blame him for wanting to stop talking to the media after this.  Yeah, "Do you think that youre a pathological liar?" as an opening question is pretty rough. That's so unbelievably disrespectful and sensationalist. I don't blame him for retreating from interviews. That's a pathetic line of questioning. Fuck, they really nailed him to the wall.  I almost felt bad for the guy. In all fairness, if he wouldn't have told countless ridiculous lies about almost every game he's worked on since at -least- the first fable, nobody would be asking him if he's a pathological liar. &gt; I still can't get myself to truly dislike him

And there's no reason to. Nothing suggests he isn't personally a good guy and he obviously has a real passion for games. It's just not a good idea to let him set your expectations.  I truly believe he mostly means what he says, that he actually *is* that passionate. So, on top of his past iconic contributions to gaming, I think that's still admirable. 

But this recent story has slightly turned him from a hopeless idealist to someone who strategically uses promises he knows he can't fulfill, which is far less innocent/idealistic.

For example, he said [here](http://www.techradar.com/news/gaming/molyneux-kickstarter-is-a-destructive-force-that-damaged-godus-1275205):

&gt;"There's this overwhelming urge to over-promise because it's such a harsh rule: if you're one penny short of your target then you don't get it. And of course in this instance, the behaviour is incredibly destructive, which is 'Christ, we've only got 10 days to go and we've got to make 100,000, for f**k's sake, lets just say anything'. So I'm not sure I would do that again."

This implies that his overpromising is an intentional tactic rather than a slip-up or mere incompetence. That's not so cute, anymore. It seems pretty obvious that it has become not just an intentional strategy, but a stated business action item: over-promise to generate backing.

He basically had a freebie. Gamers knew him as a person who over-promised out of childish exuberance, and he used that reputation to get fast money in a pinch.

That won't fly again though, and so he's "not speaking to the press anymore." No surprise. That tit has run dry. I followed the Godus Kickstarter when it was live because of Molyneux's tendency to over-promise. I remember it had a nice start out of the gate, but somewhere around the 15 day mark the Kickstarter was chugging along. He was getting donations, but not at the rate that would propel him over the line of what was asked for.

Around that time, he started talking to any game publication that would have him. Talking about his "vision" for a new god game that's never been done before. So yeah, he knows exactly what he did. He made big grand promises to people who wanted to hear what he was saying, knowing full well that he was being pretty fantastical.

I don't think Peter Molyneux has ever been malicious in his over-promising over-hyping, but in that moment, he was. He told lies he knew he had to tell in order to get his hands on money he otherwise wouldn't get. He had to hype the product to get the money. Someone in another thread called him Steve Jobs with a side of Mr. Bean and that's perfectly the way to describe him.

I don't feel sorry for him. I enjoyed his old Bullfrog games and Populous: The Beginning was my introduction to the god-game genre. But Peter Molyneux has for a very long time, promised more than he can deliver and I believe traditional publishers know it. I'm pretty sure Microsoft was happy to be rid of him, even if they can't say it publicly. &gt; I don't think Peter Molyneux has ever been malicious in his over-promising over-hyping, but in that moment, he was. He told lies he knew he was telling in order to get his hands on money he otherwise wouldn't get. He had to hype the product to get the money. Someone in another thread called him Steve Jobs with a side of Mr. Bean and that's perfectly the way to describe him.


That wouldn't be the first time he lied to get his hands on money.

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DGy2kQ8x5F8#t=218

Straight from the horse's mouth:
&gt;I can still remember it vividly. It was like an angel and a devil on my shoulders, one saying "Go on, you've just got to tell the truth. You can't lie like this" and then this other voice saying "Just lie, Just lie, get the machines, go to the place, and just sort it out afterwards."

&gt;Of course I ended up lying. &gt; Populous: The Beginning 

Fun fact, that is the first Populus game made without Peter Molyneux' involvement (and my favorite). That doesn't surprise me in the least bit. I think I remember reading somewhere that one of the terrain-altering features of the Populous series came about because Molyneux couldn't figure out how to program a specific feature and that's what he ended up with. He is the very definition of a snake-oil salesman and has been for as long as I can remember. 
In many ways I can't even have sympathy for the people that backed him on kickstarter.  It's like giving a Nigerian prince your banking details. &gt; He is the very definition of a snake-oil salesman and has been for as long as I can remember.

Given his track record with anything from Black &amp; White to the present, I do not understand why anybody would give him money or believe a word he says. God, this guy is the epitome of being a shit-filled human being. He's been in the game-development industry for ages and still pulls lines like,

&gt;I suppose the big mistake was estimating how long the game would take to make, he says. I very stupidly and navely didnt build in enough contingency time into my predictions and I was 100% wrong. When youre creating something that hasnt existed before, its very, very hard to be precise about those things.

He *always* pulls the pity card, calling himself "stupid," "nave," and all the other synonyms he can manage to regurgitate before once again getting the turd easel out and painting a shit-layered picture of, "God, we just did something that's never ever been done before, how could we possibly have thought to know how long it would take?!"

You're a fucking game developer. You're not curing a rare cancer or revolutionizing some avenue of our civilization's technological capacity. You took thousands of people's funding and delivered a shitty iPhone game. All that's left is for them to implement multiplayer, and the reason they're stalling is because of incompetency and labor being diverted into another game for the sake of moving on. 

The promises he made could easily be delivered by finishing the current game before moving onto the next. If this were a one-hit-wonder studio with no prior experience and with trouble budgeting properly, then fine. But a person who sits there projectile vomiting promises after years and years of industry work has no excuse.

Next time my consultancy is given a project and I get bored of it as the budget I promised begins to dwindle, I'll just explain to the client how "nave and stupid" I was to think that I could deliver on my promises for creating "something that's never been done before." Which is literally what *EVERY* high-end design, engineering, or R&amp;D group does every day in their fields. Yep, that'll definitely work.

This guy is a delusional scumbag who sees no problem with basking in the glory of bullshit and hype before failing entirely to deliver and going out in a smokeshow of pity-veiled horseshit excuses for failure, before coming back into the limelight a few years later with even more overhyped and soon-to-be-underdelivered garbage. I think it's long past the stage of delusion and more in the realm of blatant deception and theft. Moreover, it is hard to call a generic god game "something that's never even been done before" when he already was the lead on Populous, Populous 2, Powermonger, and *3* different Black and White games with essentially the same premise.

Molyneux can't simultaneously excuse himself for pushing into unknown territory by making Godus while at the same time constantly falling back on his reputation as the person who invented the very genre 25 years ago. So short term gains at the cost of long term consumer trust. When will the game industry learn that that's *really* bad for them? Actually, I disagree. There's only two choices here: 

1) He's incredibly stupid and breathtakingly unaware of his own failings and history, or... 

2) He just doesn't care about what are, essentially, repeated and deliberate attempts to mislead and lie to his consumers, and statements like this remain entirely a PR tactic.

Thing is, I really don't think Molyneux is stupid. So that only leaves one... 3) Theres not easy path from selfreflection to changing yourself. http://www.reddit.com/r/Games/comments/2vr6zp/peter_molyneux_its_over_i_will_not_speak_to_the/cok8e5z

http://www.reddit.com/r/Games/comments/2vr6zp/peter_molyneux_its_over_i_will_not_speak_to_the/cokgr6p How's that quote go? Something like, "never attribute to malice that which is adequately explained by stupidity."

I think Molyneux is legitimately horrible at managing projects and that's all there is to it. He's fundamentally over-ambitious, too much of a dreamer, and it blinds him to budget issues. &gt; I think Molyneux is legitimately horrible at managing projects and that's all there is to it. He's fundamentally over-ambitious, too much of a dreamer, and it blinds him to budget issues.

I feel there's a small group of famous designers who fall into the same sort of camp as Molyneux. Tim Schafer comes to mind most immediately. The man has excellent vision, but has proven several times that he is seriously lacking in business acumen. Curt Schilling would have fallen into this camp, as well before his Amalur project basically ran him and his studio straight into the ground. He was gleefully excited to be making his game...until the money dried up. It's kind of tragic, really.

I think these "idea men" in the industry could make truly great games if they only had a few more level-headed advisors (not businessmen, per se, as "business" can really fuck up a game, as we've seen) to make sure the ship doesn't capsize and sink. im thinking maybe its the fault of the medium? making a painting or creating a song or hell even making a movie is incredibly hard compared to making a good videogame. if these men's interest were into making a movie or a painting then it would probably be already made. 

but videogames takes much more money (maybe films takes the crown on this one, not sure) much more time and much more people to make. 

The fact most of these guys worked in the old days of gaming might have influenced them. since back then it was much easier of making a game, and restrictions helped getting things a bit more tight. The final marketing for Fable included interviews and screenshots for things that were not in the game. If he were any other public figure overtly misleading people about his product *as it is released* he would be crucified. This is ridiculous. What features were those? Were they dog related? I got a making of DVD with the first fable where the artists talked about the difficulties in designing objects in a world where the character's height fluctuates as he ages. Specifically reaching for door handles to open them. 

In the final game doors were unopenable. If a door was closed, that meant the building was locked. 

There were other examples but that one stuck in my head. 

Edit: locked to the "good" path. You could destroy the door and break in, earning evil points for breaking and entering.  What? Doors were totally openable. You open them by smashing them to a cloud of flying splinters with your ~~super~~hero powers.

Kind of like how all your other interactions with the world amount to one of

 * fart at it
 * smash it I don't think it's malice in the sense that he's going "Yeah, I'm trying to fuck over my customers as hard as possible by over-promising."

His intent is not to *hurt* the consumer, it's to make a great game. But he thinks that to make that great game, he has to over-promise, so that people will fund him. The malice is in the fact that he is okay with doing that over and over. As someone who enjoyed some of his earlier Bullfrog games and nothing since, I've gotten more entertainment value out of his overpromising and underdelivering than game he's released in the last 15 years Really, he's a victim of his own ambition. Time and time again, he lets himself get completely passionate about one of his visions, and he just wants to share it with the world. He's like a little kid who wants to show his parents and friends the cool picture he just drew. Trouble is, it's easier to scribble on a paper than it is to design a whole game.

I can't bring myself to dislike the guy either. He's doing what he loves, and his inability to truly reach the peak of his ideas probably weighs very heavily on him at this point. I'm hoping he sticks to the plan to play his cards close to his chest from here on out and let's somebody else do the talking. He may not reach the height of his next idea, but at least he won't be weighed down by under-delivering yet again. I think part of the problem is a press (and to a certain extent gamers) receptive to whatever he's saying. I don't think I've ever read something along the lines of "Peter Molyneux was trying to tell us something, but we told him to go away and show us the end result when he's got something worth showing".

It's like The Usual Suspects - "Convince me". So long as people are willing to listen and entertain him, to discuss whatever cool concepts he comes up with, why would he stop? That would be kind of a non-story, so it'd only ever come up as an insider anecdote. Actually making it a story goes beyond "prove it" to kicking sand in his face. The backlash against the RPS interview is very telling. You wouldn't tell David Frost, Martin Bashir etc to give the interviewee a break yet people seem to be painting Molyneux as a victim. 

Gamers seem to want the press to stop being glorified PR, but not when it happens.  I don't know, the RPS interview was brutal. The first question was directly asking Molyneux if he was a pathological liar. That's a hell of a way to open an interview.

OTOH, Molyneux is the furthest thing from a victim. The only thing he's a victim of is his mouth and ego. He created this situation from a decade of overpromising. I'm not kidding about the decade part, he had this "realization" ten years ago:

http://web.archive.org/web/20070404110938/http://allboards.lionhead.com/showthread.php?t=83152

&gt; have come to realise that I should not talk about features too early so I am considering not talking about games as early as I do

And yet...he never stopped. Someone needed to bring this out, but RPS came on a bit strong. Well, to be fair,  he flat states he isn't a pathological liar... Then immediately and repeatedly lies for the rest of the interview.  He's been doing this [his entire life](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Peter_Molyneux#Early_career). In 1984 as a teenager:

&gt; After taking an advertising space in a game magazine, he prepared for the game's success; he later stated in an interview, "I was utterly convinced that this game would sell tons. I thought, 'You know, this letter box is just not big enough. It's just not going to fit all the envelopes.' So I cut  and this is no joke  I cut a bigger letter box". However, the game received only two orders, one of which Molyneux speculated was from his mother.

He's fascinating study in psychological disorder and enablement. Not that it really matters, but he would have been 26 in 1984. &gt;My hope is that in six to nine months time, people start to finally see the game they really did pledge for. That will be two to three years into development but thats kind of what it takes when you do an original game. 

Considering it is only two people developing the title, Konrad and Pavel, of which one is an intern and the actual coder is fixing the mobile version, it is hardly a surprise it is taking a long time. The rest have moved on to the The Trail. That's the fucked up thing, he's setting those two guys to fail. This game won't change in 9months.  Its a fundamentally broken game, there's no way they can fix it in nine months.

It wouldn't be a horrible game if it wasn't for Molyneux's overpromising. It wouldn't be anything special or anything but it wouldn't have created this much drama... See, he cannot fucking leave it can he.. we all know in 6-9 months the game will be 100% abandonware. Don't they realize that if they actually completed Godus with their full team and made it a good game, that more people would be willing to buy their followup? Who the hell will buy The Trail when they failed to deliver Godus? Who the hell would buy Godus after (previous under-delivered game)? Jesus christ, the trail? Molyneux took a bunch of money to make a freemium shitfest and then he's like oh, it sucks that it's not popular, on to this other thing. What a piece of shit. I'm pretty sure that's another thing he won't deliver on.

Because let's be honest. He's too big of a personality not to participate in the marketing of his next game. As long as he's involved after the game is actually due for release, with confirmed and tested mechanics, I don't see why not. I'm fine to pretend the game doesn't exist until reviews are out for his games.  &gt;Peter Molyneux has admitted regret and culpability; he was clearly in distress throughout the interview  an interview he told us would will be his last. An hour before publication, however, we discovered that he had spoken to the gaming news site Rock, Paper, Shotgun the day before, and had given their interviewer the same impression  that he would no longer be speaking to the press. He has also spoken to at least one other site, seemingly on the same afternoon as our discussion. Another trail of broken assurances.

From the end of the article.

Does anyone really think he won't start the same shit in a few months over-promising The Trail. The game Molyneux "isn't talking about" but can't go 2 minutes without mentioning. Yeah. I understand what someone else suggested by his meaning "my last [round of] interview[s]", so I'm not going to judge him on that. But in that video he was already starting his usual hype routine for The Trail. Even when he's apologizing he can't help but shift blame onto something or someone else. Given that he's been reduced to mostly over-promising to the press, I can't imagine what his next move is. From someone working in IT, people pulling a Molyneux is more common than you think.

It's not even over-promising, it's telling absolutely everyone about how awesome your project idea is going to be without having asked anyone if it's remotely feasible. Then when your team comes and tells you what you sold is impossible to do, you either fail to deliver or try anyway and end up with a horribly bloated version of the concept. Yes, in software development, it's very typical. If you factor in deadlines and unexpected technical difficulties, projects very often take a lot longer than expected, even if you try to expect the unexpected. 

The surprising thing is that a hardened game designer like him keep failing at doing the very same thing : setting fesible goals. Has he ever been involved in actually programming? &gt; Has he ever been involved in actually programming?

According to his Mobygames page:

 * Black &amp; White (2001)	  	(Programming)
 * Theme Park (1994)	  	(Original Programming by)
 * Populous II: Trials of the Olympian Gods (1991)	  	
 * PowerMonger (1990)	  	(Programmed by)
 * Populous (1989)	  	(Programming)
 * Populous: The Promised Lands (1989)	  	(Programming)
 * Enlightenment (1987)	  	(Amiga Programming by)

EDIT: interestingly almost all the games while he was still programming are considered his best games.

EDIT2: oops, i accidentally pasted this twice That's actually really interesting. Maybe he's a very talented programmer but just not a good lead designer? He's actually (by his own admittance) a horrible programmer.  He only got into it because he wanted his ideas made.  He stopped once he had enough cred to have a team do the programming instead. Most programmers who fall short of genius think their old code is awful, so... I'm not sure if we should trust his opinion. I think I understand Peter Molyneux now.

He believes he is bad at programming. This means he thinks all of the programmers on his team are better than him. 

He then believes his programmers can accomplish his creative ideas (even though he himself can't).

In all actuality, he is a competent programmer like the rest of his team. When he works within what a competent programmer can do, he doesn't get lost in his own imagination. The goals are more realistic and the game doesn't suffer for it. Imagination flourishes under restrictive guidelines. Necessity is the mother of invention? So does stress and feelings of  hopelessness. So the best project managers are competent programmers who know that they are competent...this is actually an interesting insight.  Thanks! (not sarcastic) The best managers are people who are/were competent at the job of the people they are currently managing, and who keep in mind what competent people of that skill level can do without being overworked. Programmers who admit to be horrible usually aren't actually *horrible*, but somewhere between average and great.  

I don't know about him, though, maybe he's an exception to this rule and really is as horrible as he says. That's true of people in most areas.  If you can recognize your own faults you're probably better off than the guy that thinks he's amazing and never improves. Which is one of the principals of the Dunning Kruger effect Peter Molyneux actually said once that he made god games because he was so bad at programming. In the early stages of Populous you were supposed to control some character in the game world, but he couldn't figure out how to make the player stay on the map so the character you controlled walked on water and such. Thats when he thought "I can make a game where you are a god instead. A god can go anywhere". It's a feature, not a bug! He's good at the creative part. Just not good at getting that part realized in a modern team. Then I don't understand what happens every single time. On those titles, he was the creative and programming lead on small teams of people. The original Populous he made in his bedroom and mailed floppy disks via an ad in the paper.

Molyneux is by all accounts a good designer with great ideas. I know some may disagree with me on that, but I think that with the right filter and supporting structure he could be doing great work, but he just needs that project manager who can handle him and be the filter that stops all the bullshit seeping through.

He just can't manage or lead a project it seems, which sucks.  He's the george lucas of video games.  See I'd even disagree with that. I'm no Star Wars buff by any means, but AFAIA Lucas had one really good idea and then spent 20 years fucking it up over and over, until he finally sold it for billions. 

Molyneux is an idea machine, but his execution of recent years has just been awful. He should restructure his dev studio so he isn't leading any of the main projects, form a skeleton crew, and start prototyping his ideas, then let other teams carry them through to completion. He shouldn't be managing projects. For Lucas it's more he got famous for movies that were crafted by the limitations set on him by other people (be they editors, actors etc... telling him what wont work and how to change things) 

The movies get big so when he makes the next batch he is in complete and total control, and it's not until the mess has been filmed and edited does someone run a reality check on him. 

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=KseqzmcqQBQ - NSFW language. 

Here it is without the commentary: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=j8sBsnYNucM&amp;t=54m52s - (54m52s if it does not link directly) Yeah I've heard that theory and it makes sense to me. He did also create Indiana Jones, Willow; and American Graffiti was really good. The man created a half dozen *extremely* successful companies, theres a lot more to it than that. ILM if nothing else deserves its own applause. Anyone that thinks B&amp;W was a great game never went out and spent $50 on it at launch (no magic carpet ~ wasn't that bullfrog too?).  Great premise, horrible execution, and hardly playable on most rigs of the time.  Maybe if the first time you played it was 2006, but even then B&amp;W2 was the better game (search your feelings, etc). Actually, I *did* buy it at launch, and I loved it.  Enough to buy the second one as well.  It was a niche game, but some of us really did love it. Yeah, I'm with you on that one. It had flaws, but I ***loved*** B&amp;W. I just hated having to do the whole fucking tutorial each time.

"Please, anyone, save our son!"

"Bitch, fuck you. I'm an unknowable cosmic goddamn diety. Fetch my fucking wheat." I killed the son by dropping a rock on him. Then picked up the dead body and put it in front of the woman. Then used a rock to destroy her house.

I wasn't a benevolent god. [deleted] Black &amp; White truly brings out the worst in people. It's just part of the experience.  I got it at launch and was so disappointed.  The ground-breaking AI was, at best, hours of frustration in getting your creature to shit in the right spot.  Like nearly everything else he's done, great ideas with crummy execution.

&lt;oldhipster&gt;Populous was his best game, it's been downhill since. &lt;/oldhipster&gt; &gt; The ground-breaking AI was, at best, hours of frustration in getting your creature to shit in the right spot

Sounds believable.  Have you ever owned a dog? I bought at launch and loved it. At one point my animal was making a line of stones on the beach. I decided to help and placed a stone. My pet got mad and threw every stone into the sea. I bought B&amp;W on release.  For the first couple of hours I thought it was the most incredible game.  Soon after that, the disappointment began.  It was like a Tamagotchi pet game combined with a series of click puzzles.

I grew up on Bullfrog games.  Populous on the Amiga.  Powermonger, Syndicate, Magic Carpet, Dungeon Keeper.  B&amp;W wasn't just a disappointment as a game; it was disappointing that it came from Molyneux, who is such a legend. I believe there's an actual rule when giving time estimates to your boss in a software development job, you take the time you think it will take you and double it, just in-case. "Mentally multiply by PI" is the rule of thumb for anyone dealing with developers.  Everyone forgets that less than 5% of development time is spent developing what ends up as the actual end result.  Most of the time is spent figuring out *what* to write, which means development is a mix of creativity, engineering and research that is practically impossible to pre-estimate. Don't forget random visits by various people to your area.  It's a burden having so many hot singles in my area. I take estimates and round up to the next unit of time. 2 hours? You mean 1 day. 3 days? You mean 1 week. 1 year?  You mean a decade. 100% of software development:

 * the first 90%
 * the second 90%
  But the last 10% is the actually bigger than both of the first 90%'s.

Edit: Source: I've been stuck in the last 10% of this project for a year :| [deleted] That's the rule that I was taught 20 years ago by fellow senior devs. And it's surprisingly accurate.... "That change? Bah, should take an hour." Add testing, some regression bugs, stuff to clarify, the initial meeting and you easily spend 2 days on that. - Submit business request.

- Requirements meeting (iterate until complete)

- Create non-functional and functional design specs. (iterate)

- Cost the solution.

- Revisit requirements to reduce costs. (iterate)

- Build environment for development. 

- Development.

- QA (minimum of Systems Integration Testing, User Acceptance Testing, Performance Testing, Operability Testing).

- Implement to production.

- Transition to ongoing production support team. 

And that is how a single transaction webpage on a major site can cost $100k or more.

Game development is even more complex, the only advantage they have is typically the people generating the requirements are also part of the design team. 

Molyneaux's problem isn't that he makes bad games. Its that he overpromises and under delivers. Instead of Godus being perceived as an homage to Populus that's a bit rough around the edges for holding a lot of promise, its perceived as a failed project since it failed to deliver its stated goals and people feel mislead.  Its the same product in absolute terms -- but perception is everything. spot on.

But then Peter has been known for that for decades. I just started my first real job involving programming this week. On Tuesday the guy I am working with told someone in a meeting we'd probably have our project done that day. It's now Friday and I'm about to head in to work on it some more. Who knows when it'll be done? Would you mind briefly describing the project? Feel free to ignore if you'd rather not, I understand. Just curious how unrealistic a prediction it was. [deleted] Double?  I've always heard either "triple" or "double and up the unit."

For the latter, "2 days" turns into "4 weeks", etc.  It's incredibly pessimistic, but for the programmers I've heard say it, it's also sadly accurate.  They tend to be the type to over-complicate everything. I think it's different ideas of what 'project completed' is. A programmer may be long done, before it fully tested and reviewed. Project scope may change or bugs found and then the entire thing needs to be reworked. 

At this point the programmer would say they completed the project twice, or two different projects the original and the rework. The manager would probably say it took the programmer twice as long to finish 1 project.

A lot of programmer do forget to factor in research time in, and only count hands on keys typing as the time estimate. That doesn't help much either.  How else would they keep their reputations as miracle workers?  I salute you in Software development. I recently took reign of a failing IT project from the Sysadmin side and our development team did everything right the first time. But it was the constant scope creep, over promising and dissonance with reality of the project manager and developer lead (Whom had no experience developing, just leading developers) that a project that was to take 9 months and 250K ended up take 2 years and inching close to 1 M now. 

I say this because it's not always the fault of the developer, lots of people can get in the way of an otherwise great plan. Business managers, promise-the-world salespeople, project managers, etc.  Don't even get me started on sales people. The lead sales guy we have right now who is trying to sling our new product has not even really touched it. I have an audit system in place and he has "tested/used" the application like 10min once a month for the last 4 months.

Our sales guy does not even know how our application really works or what all it can do. to be fair, sometimes it's better not to know beyond highlights. i was horrible at upselling to any and every customer at Dell. My co-workers could say shit like "oh, you want to do pictures and photo-editing? i'd recommend upgrading your graphics card" with a straight face, or sell an XPS (back then it was a high-end gaming line) to a grandma who played computer card games and not feel bad about it. That would be true except for the fact that it is a docket style application for once specific market. So filing, managing, and billing "cases" electronically. If this was a generalized application that we were trying to shoe horn into different markets ya maybe. But this is a specialized application meant for a specific type of client. [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] &gt; From someone working in IT, people pulling a Molyneux is more common than you think.

Maybe if you're new to the IT field. You learn pretty quick not to make ANY promises and never talk about how great something is until it's about 98% finished. That's the programmers and the team leads.

Ask the guy selling your product while it's being developed, or selling the contracts for your services ,and they'll sell stuff you don't even do in half the time of what it was possible in, for half the money it costs to even boot up the machines used to develop on. Guess I can't speak to that.  I work on internal IT projects so we pretty much never promise the higher ups a damn thing that we aren't 100% certain we can pull it off haha. Yeah, sadly I work on work sold externally. It's all nice and well until you let someone from marketing or sales have a hand with it. Then things go crazy and you end up with a time schedule which has every programmer consider their nearest route of exit. I can at least sympathize with that. I'm pretty sure our execs just throw a dart at a calendar when they pick due dates for our deployments.  I also have to remind our PM every single time he proposes a new agile cycle that he needs to include room for testing and bug resolution at the end which he never does and as the BA and UAT tester on most projects, leaves me rushing to test the most important functionality before go live.  I hate our PM. &gt; Even when he's apologizing he can't help but shift blame onto something or someone else

"I very stupidly and navely didnt build in enough contingency time into my predictions and I was 100% wrong"

"I wish I was more effective and efficient."

"That was terrible, it was atrocious and I can understand him feeling offended about that. We should have... I should have made sure that he was still in the loop."

"I understand that people are sick of hearing my voice and hearing my promises. So Im going to stop doing press and Im going to stop talking about games completely. And actually Im only giving you this interview now in answer to this terrible and awful, emotional time over the last three days. I think honestly the only answer to this is for me to completely stop talking to the press."

Sounds to me like he's taking most of the flak on this topic. God dammit, Peter.
God fucking dammit.
Somehow through all these years I've tenaciously believed in you.
I believed in Godus. I didn't want it to do anything huge or innovative or life-changing. 
I wanted a God-game like what made you great.

Instead you delivered a fucking mobile game like the glut of mobile games that are currently despised by the entirety of the gaming world. Didn't EA's attempts to make Dungeon Keeper into the same sort of title clue you in to what the response to such a move might be?
Why the fuck did you think it was a good idea?
It wasn't just a case of over-promising and under-delivering. It was you promising one thing and delivering something completely different. Something that nobody wanted. Something that nobody paid for when they pledged for your kickstarter.

I'm finally finished with you.
It's obvious that we aren't going to see a return to Bullfrog era greatness, or even to the level of enjoyability from early Lionhead titles.
So this is where we part. &gt;  I didn't want it to do anything huge or innovative or life-changing. I wanted a God-game like what made you great.

I hear you brother. What I wouldn't give for a proper remake of Black &amp; White, with mod support. Also tons of potential for DLC. Or a Populous reboot. Those games defined my childhood and it's a damn shame their spiritual father has fallen as low as he has.
 &gt; I believed in Godus.

He had a rep for being shit after Fable 1, I fail to see how you still believed in him after all those years of disappointment. What he did with Godus is nothing new. Which is kind of sad, because Fable 1 would have been so much better received if he hadn't overhyped it.  It was a pretty damn good game, with lots of cool features and systems... just nothing like what he talked about. I remember leading up to Fable 1, he actually said "players will be able to carve something into a tree, and come back years later to see the tree having grown, and their carving having changed with the growth."

That would be a stretch giving technology constraints NOW... let alone when Fable 1 was in development.  The guy is a full time bullshit artist.  I don't believe a damn word of his in this article about "truly believing" in everything he says. 

Fable 1 was a great game... he didn't have to lie about it.  He just can't seem to help himself.

Edit for clarity: I sunk so many damn hours into B&amp;W and Fable 1 as a kid - the guy has made some awesome games.  I just wish he would keep his f'ing mouth shut and let the gameplay do the talking. He's a visionary who just can't get things done.

Your tree carving example is one of those things.  It shouldn't be too hard to keep track of what trees are carved (hell, make it one specific tree that you carve as part of the plot).  

And it's not like carvings move up or down the trunk as it grows.  It's just the same image but stretched horizontally.  Add some moss and whatever the wood version of patina is and you're done.

I know I am just an armchair developer and oversimplifying things, but that promise was doable. It's not really about the doability. It's more about the "is this worth doing?" Because you are somewhat oversimplifying things; if you don't already have some kind of framework to allow for those things, you have to add that in too. And when you look at all the work for an individual feature, it starts becoming obvious that it's not worth doing, because the work vastly outweighs what that work gets you.

Put it another way, if you have, say, 1000 development hours to work with, and implementing tree carving is going to take 20, that could be an actually useful feature being implemented instead.

And that's not a problem; side-features should be treated like that. But they shouldn't be talked about as if they were already something working and done in the game if you haven't even started it yet. I see a lot of people hate on Fable 1 whenever Molyneux gets brought up, and it blows my mind. I didn't hear the hype surrounding Fable so when I picked it up and played it I had normal expectations. And goddamn it was a great game. Hands down the best Fable, for sure.

It's a bummer people attach games to people and hate on the game because it came from a person. That's just silly. Yeah when Fable 1 came out I was an age where I didn't care about hype or publicity behind games. It was awesome and stood on its own merits.

I remember reading in Xbox magazine that you were supposed to be able to cut off your enemies heads, and would be able to stack them to create your own castle! Best we got was beheading occasionally and being able to kick the head.

It was still awesome. I don't defend the haters, but if you were promised an orange and instead was delivered a mango, it doesn't really matter how good the mango was.... Though in the case of Molyneux, it's more like being promised a banana split, but only getting a banana. Good point hombre. See, I was just the opposite. I DID read all of the Fable I hype. I got super excited. An open world! So much potential! The end result was a good game, but nowhere close to what I had read about. 

That was the game that made me no longer read the game magazines. I knew that Fable was good, but it wasn't what I had been promised at all, and I couldn't enjoy it as a result. If I hadn't read all this stuff about it, I could have enjoyed it so much more. Same here, when I got into Fable I had never heard of Molyneux and I fell completely in love with the series.

Even after learning about the huge amount of hate people had for him, I couldn't possibly share it because Fable turned out so great he must be doing something right.

The guy's just full of passion and energy - sure it spills out in hyperbole, but if even just a fraction of that passion ends up in his games then I'm all for it. Same here, hadn't heard a dang thing about it and I LOVED it. Still do. I'm starting to think I just need to avoid the gaming press except for the most basic of reviews, so I don't have all the baggage attached to it.  I must be incredibly lucky because I wasn't paying attention to gaming news at the time and Fable 1 was a game I picked up on a Steam sale and knew nothing about. It was such an incredible game coming in with no expectations, I was shocked when I first heard people say how disappointing Fable 1 was.

Fable 3 on the other hand... Well, I'm not sure I can feel sorry for someone who buys into anything Peter says after that game. I don't get why some people still take him seriously. There was a tiny, tiny bit of hope with Godus (i.e. kickstarted meaning that he was free of (whatever possible) constrains given by the publisher, etc.).

What happened showed that there is no problem but Molynoux. I would argue after Black and White.

If anyone listen to the crazy hype the game was 'suppose' to be, and the dismal launch,

That game was a complete fucking fail... That's a good point. A good dungeon keeper or black and white would sell well...so why hasn't he ever bothered? Has he lost the rights? the funny thing is, there was a kickstarter for a game called War for the Overworld that will be released later this month (finally).  But it is a DK game, and it looks and plays amazing.  It is every DK 3 could have been, with skinnable dungeons, a HUGE tech tree based around various Sins, and tons of traps and beasties.

Then Eric Chahi (guy who made Out of This World /Another World) released From Dust a few years back, and that was the best modern rendition of a populous game in years.

Apparently others are very capable of making spiritual successors to these games.  Molyneux can't help but fuck things up.  He is obviously a slave to perceived trends. at this point.  He shoehorned Godus into the mobile world, even though it was never supposed to be mobile.  Then he raped the game with the addition of Gems and microtransactions, even though he promised a full pc based god game.

The fucker just doesn't think.  he does whatever he wants, regardless of whether or not it completely undermines the goal he put forth and got funding based on. EA released a shitty, microtransaction-ridden Dungeon Keeper mobile game recently, so apparently they own the rights for it. Lionhead was bought by Microsoft in 2006. Usually when a publisher buys a game studio, they'll get their existing IP's too -  so they most likely own the rights for B&amp;W.  Hey guys he's hyping up that he isn't going to do interviews anymore, don't belive it, its a trap! He's going to let us down again by doing a interview in the future. Can someone pull the quote out for me where he says specifically "it's over, I am not going to speak to the press again."

They have it in quotes in the headline, but in the article he says he needs to stop talking to the press and that people are tired of hearing from him. The websites mobile code is playing hell with my reddit app, though, and it was hard to scroll through the entire site without it jumping around, so I am guessing I missed it. Man... I really wonder when the day will come when he just up and leaves the industry. He's made great games, even when he under delivers, but I can't help but think that that he's contributed a lot to the hype culture that has a strangle hold on our hobby. If he gets his act together and learns to budget ideas and not skimp on gameplay either  (ending to Fable 3... sigh) he still has time to turn his public image around... but he's had nearly two decades to decide and it doesn't look like he wants to go that route. I often wonder how much of the 'making' he did of the games rather than taking credit and being used as the PR arm. A friend of mine worked with him. Molyneux's nickname was "The Chaos Fairy" because he'd pop in at random with some insane idea that would just fuck your shit up.

He's toxic to his teams as well. We just get to see the mess he makes in the press. no doubt, I work in Software Dev, and have seen first hand the carnage these types can create.

I know he did program his first games, and they were just excellent, but I think he just then boarded his own hype wagon and rolled on.

You know those recent interviews, you can see the bloke asking the question is basically using it as a 'passive aggressive' way to get back at PM. 'So Peter, reading direct from the forums - Why is Godus fucking shite'.. George Broussard from 3D realms is like this as well. Duke Nukem Forever would have been finished after 3 or 4 years had George not constantly moved the goal posts and shifted the focus of development every time he saw something new he wanted to include in the game. 8-10 years ago Duke Nukem Forever would actually have been a fairly ok game. This man is either intensely self-unaware, absent of self-restraint, or supremely manipulative, and I'm leaning toward the latter. His behavioral pattern is that of an abusive or cheating husband. Whatever his assurances, the shame is ours for believing, or even listening at this point.

The gaming press is incentivized to play up the drama of this man's promises and failures. They will keep putting a microphone in front of him, gleefully playing along with his delusions and spectacular train wrecks. The solution is not that Molyneux ceases speaking to the press, but that we stop listening. Don't reward either the abuser or the facilitators with your attention. Not that I understand him, but being supremely manipulative and intensely self-unaware are typically two sides of the same coin. He sounds like a narcissistic ass. At one point in the interview, he cobbles together a shoddy apology for "Curiosity", then calls 22cans "incompetent", throwing his own group under the bus.

Working with this man must be a nightmare. I wish the best of luck to his team in emerging from the denial they must be in and finding success elsewhere. Even if this sounds horrible of me, but GOOD RIDDANCE!  
This man has promised gamers the world so many times in so many different ways, that it hurts just looking back to my childhood. He showed fantastic premises in his games and then filled them with the disappointment that is mediocre execution.  
Every time it is a genuinely great and interesting idea that he pitches. And then we wait and wait, only to see the idea get bleak and washed out, because he cannot deliver.  This is his problems. He builds air castles (I don't know if that's an expression in English) which look fantastic, but they always collapse. Every. Single. Time. The man either needs to have a serious reality check or up his game way the fuck up, because before he does either of those he can stay gone for all I care. FYI, in English, we would say "build castles in the sky". 

I always find it interesting when different languages have subtly different versions of phases. I see. In Dutch, "luchtkasteel" meaning air castle, literally means "an ideal which you can never realize." 

I'd never heard of the expression "build castles in the sky," but according to Google you're right, so I'll remember to use that next time. Thanks. [deleted] [deleted] Agreed.  I remember being so excited for Fable due to all his hype in game magazines.  I still remember "Project Ego" being the reason a 16 year old me chose the Xbox as my next gen console.  

When it finally came out... it was good.  But it wasn't what was promised.  I looked up an article to make sure I wasn't pulling bs out of thin air with these comments.  Here's what the game was supposedly going to have.

Appearance changes based on experiences.  Stand in the sun too long, get a tan.  Nope.

Get a cut on your arm, get a scar.  Nope.

Use a heavy weapon, get bigger muscles.  Nope.  You got bigger muscles by putting points into strength, not by your actions.

The game world is a "Complete and on going simulation".  Things you do will affect the world.  If you drop an acorn on the ground, you will see it grow into a tree over time.  Nope

People will sing songs about your exploits.  If calling you chicken chaser 15 times a minute counts, then I guess they got this one right.

You can get married, have kids, and watch your kids grow up over the course of the game.  Nope

You can see individual blades of grass in the wind.  Nope.

I actually do enjoy Fable, but it wasn't what Molyneux hyped Project Ego to be.
 Godus was set to fail from the start, [NerdCubed's video](http://youtu.be/4aOjycc0YTI) on the game in 2013 perfectly described the many problems with it and he correctly predicted that it would end up coming out as a free-to-play mobile game. It was a poorly executed game that should have been good, I can see how backers on Kickstarter had faith in it at the time; Peter Molyneux should have been able to deliver with his experience in the genre. I feel so sorry for the guy who won Curiosity since he was promised what could have been "10,000-500,000 depending on the success of the game" by 22Cans, but instead got completely ignored for 2 years. If anyone was promised rewards for funding the Kickstarter I think you can get a refund from Kickstarter. 

**Edit:** Video link added I actually enjoyed all the fable games (yes all of them) Black and White 1 and 2.. haven't played Godus.

But the ones I *did* play I loved. However, I never looked into their hype. I just bought and played. I seriously think if this guy didn't promise so much more people would find his games enjoyable. Seriously, those fable games were great. I heard a few were buggy at first but I didn't experience that at least.

I feel kind of bad for him. I think he just genuinely gets really hyped up over his own ideas and wants to bring them out into the world, and he just falls flat. He can't contain this huge ideas and keep them to himself until he can find out whether or not it's feasible for his team. Fingers in ears, la la la I can't hear what you're saying about me. Oh hey guys I have this new game idea which has never been thought of before. la la la can't hear your replies Sort good, sort of bad ...

Frankly I can deal with him promising the world in general (its part of his weird charm).  But ... I can't deal with him actively screwing over individuals like the kickstarter backers and then blaming it on kickstarter.  And of course the curiosity guy. What's amazing is that he *still* claims that it will be a life-changing experience for the kid. If he gets a $100 out of it, I'll be shocked. [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] I feel kinda sad for him, and the top comment says he's shifting blame to something else. Which is not true.

He knows his mistakes and his failures: Overhyping. And I'm sure that keeping himself quiet will be the best for his games and his sanity. Good that he found out before he started going to full Phil Fish mode.

I still hope to see games from him in the future. &gt;  I suppose the big mistake was estimating how long the game would take to make, he says. I very stupidly and navely didnt build in enough contingency time into my predictions and I was 100% wrong."

Not this time Molyneux.  You've been developing games for 20+ years, you can't suddenly just act all surprised and feign ignorance about the difficulties of software estimation.  This guy is a liar and a fraud, and he has been pulling the same shit his entire career.  Just wait guys, the NEXT game is REALLY going to change the world and be this totally innovate completely new take on controlling your own world/destiny/whatever.  And people keep falling it for it. I once had a boss who, instead of arguing with you when you had a problem, would just tell you you were right and apologize.  After venting you'd walk out of the office feeling like you gave a piece of your mind.  Then nothing would get fixed and you'd realize you got tricked yet again. "This will be the greatest and most amazing notspeakingtothepress ever. It will change your life forever." &gt; Peter Molyneux: ...why are you beating me up on these dates things? You sound like a publisher.

That's what Kickstarter is. Your funders are your publisher. And just because they don't know your mobile phone number, doesn't mean they aren't ANGRY.

&gt; Peter Molyneux: What youre almost going to get out of this is driving me out of the industry.
&gt;
&gt; RPS: No, what I want
&gt;
&gt; Peter Molyneux: And well done John, well done! And if thats what you want, youre going about it completely the right way.

Oh boo hoo, Peter. All the journalist did in that entire conversation is read you back your own words, from different points in time. You're an incredibly inconsistent person. Not only has Molyneux apparently lost his touch with games, as well as being a poor *business* manager, I've realised he is a bad salesman. 

Anyone can over-promise and under-deliver. It takes no skill to promise the world. A good sales person on the other hand, can sell a game while still managing expectations, so the customer isn't disappointed at the end of it.  A good salesman makes you want what is *there.* This whole shenanigan taught me it's just better to under-promise and over-deliver instead of the other way around. Thanks Molyneux.  But the issue then is that nobody really wants to pay attention to you because your not promising much. 

Plus, if you're passionate about something, you tend to want to talk about your vision, not the conservative "safe" option you're afraid you'll end up with instead. Not really. As long as other people find your vision interesting, whether it's big or small, people will support you either way. Much like how Tim Schafer got his adventure game funded even though we didn't actually know what he was going to make. His vision was at an earlier phase and he wasn't promising much at all. Most people backed Tim's project mainly because they loved his adventure games and wanted to see what he could come up with next. 

 Those "press sneak fucks" are at it again! I can't remember who originally coined that term, but I feel like it wasn't all that long ago and at the time finding it hilarious. Press sneak fucks was used by Raph Colantonio in internal email to other Bethesda/Arkane employees in regards to Kotaku's reporting on Prey 2 and that Arkane was working on it (and they are, even if they deny it for the time being). Jason Schreier who reported it even has press sneak fuck as a tag on neogaf :) Yes that was it! That must have been at least a couple of years then because I haven't heard anything about Prey 2 for quite awhile now. It is generally anticipated to get either Dishonored 2 and/or Prey 2 announcement on Bethesda's conference at E3. I would not be surprised if they dropped the Prey name though. Yeah I remember thinking the game looked cool but that it was odd of them to actually treat it as a sequel to Prey. I really liked Dishonored, and based on the direction of that early Prey 2 stuff, it would make a lot of sense to have Arkane continue that project. Prey 2 has been officially cancelled. They did not really continue it, Prey 2 as originally developed was cancelled after Zenimax tried to aquire Human Head for cheap and failed. Arkane's game is being done from ground up. Prey 2 was officially cancelled a few month backs. Human Head version sure, unoficially years ago. Arkane's version, which might not be named Prey 2, wasn't. [Prey 2 is officially cancelled](http://uk.ign.com/articles/2014/10/31/prey-2-is-officially-cancelled) Exaxctly what I said, yes. They officially admitted that HH's Prey 2 was canceled (unofficially it was dead for years). But the project that started as Prey 2 at Arkane (and will almost definitely end up being called something else) is in development. How many times do I have to repeat that ? In these days, I can't imagine it's easy being a game dev. You have to watch what and how you say things because you're constantly under scrutiny by fans and critics alike looking to disseminate your statements.

It's even worse when you have a reputation. In earlier days, I bet silly statements and grandiose language was more easily eaten up without repercussion but now, you bet you say something dumb, the gaming masses will hound you until you stress out.

Molyneux is a small game dev now. He doesn't have the luxuries Microsoft gave him such as a bigger budget and more people to take care of things (like say a PR person). He's now the face of a struggling game dev (c'mon, if Godus had made tons of money, we'd know) with a game that had a popular contest that really can't deliver the promises he made.People are constantly going at him for it. That's Hell when you're trying to keep a game company going and making a game.

It's nice n all to make fun and say "ohhh Molyneux always says dumb stuff" and give him shit but dude's a big picture guy who rarely seems to have a more level headed manager next to him who manages expectations.I still rather have a man aiming for the stars and missing than a dude who's just gonna keep doing the same ol thing.

Molyneux's team (really this isn't only his fault, there's more than one person in the company other people should have stepped up) should have kept in contact with the kid. Bad or good news, maintaining a line of communication is key especially with a competition winner.

For future things he says, he should have the dev team from the game vet what he can and cannot say so that he doesn't end up over promising again.

Either way, I feel bad for the dude. He just seems to want make amazing games but doesn't quite make it. That..or this is all some long promotion for his studio and his next game. Why feel sorry for the dude who has been doing this since the beginning? Of course other game devs do the same thing but he really takes it to a whole new dimension. Not to mention, he hasn't really done anything ground breaking recently. All he does is tell us that he has revolutionized the wheel only to come out with a triangle.

There are so many others out there who have interesting ideas, are very passionate, actually do plan ahead, and come out with much more interesting games that he is just really not worth anyone's time. This is silly for two reasons: first, this is all by choice. I have no doubt he could be making a game at a bigger studio if he wanted to.  Second, every good CEO/leader of every software company in the world learns how to build excitement without over promising.  The notion that the devs should go over his talking points is not completely unreasonable, but he should know the things he can and can't say and should ask questions he needs to figure that out. He took money and he didn't deliver. It's not rocket science, he does not deserve any pity. He's a fucking liar. He's not aiming for the stars. He "says" he's aiming for the stars. In the RPS interview he says he works 16 hour days. Doing what exactly? It gets me that he just doesn't get his whole team to work on Godus and deliver. Leaving two people to develop it and expecting the mess it is to be the finished product in nine months. 

I hate how he just passes the blame or tries to justify his failure.  Everyone that can be working on Godus is working on it. There's like 8 to 10 people working on it. He says so in the RPS interview.

http://www.rockpapershotgun.com/2015/02/13/peter-molyneux-interview-godus-reputation-kickstarter/

&gt;RPS: Why did it take my writing an article about the fact these things dont exist for you to get round to start making them?

&gt;Peter Molyneux: Ill tell you why, John. Because were so fucking busy trying to make this game a great game. Everybody here, every single person here is doing something on the game, with the exception of Michelle, and even Michelle who is the office administrator is now acting as a producer to help out...

*continued...*

&gt;RPS: So how many of those people are working on Godus and how many are on The Trail roughly, do you know?

&gt;Peter Molyneux: So the people who arent working on Godus are the people who wouldnt be busy on Godus most of the time. So at the moment, Im just looking over them now. Weve got Dave, Pavle, Konrad, Andy, Martin and Conor, and Michelle just stuck up her arms as well. [to Michelle] Youre not working on Godus.

&gt;And then Peter on the art side, and on the Trail weve got Sara, whos a concept artist so theres not much work for her to do on Godus, weve got Paul, who did all the sculpting stuff so theres not much for him to do on Godus at the moment, Tonys working on the Trail, Demetri and Tom, and then on the art side the new artist is learning Maya and well have to see how he gets on. And Paul McLaughlin is working on Godus and hes the head art. I think Ive covered everyone that I can see.

&gt;RPS: OK, thats great.
 Here he goes, hyping something up again. Promising he'll never be back and yet he won't deliver. Watch. I hope Tim Schafer and Peter Molyneux work on the same project together. I'd pay to just follow the development gossip. I feel for him. I can't think of any other industry where the development process is so open. Can you imagine if car manufacturers were this open in their developments of their vehicles? Or the production of a movie was this transparent to feedback and criticism of the process or politics involved?

Don't show people how the sausage is made. They're just going to dump on you for it.

But maybe he shouldn't have gone to Kickstarter to get this funded. Or do it and at least keep things tight and stop going to the press. The problem is not that people see how the sausage is made, it's that he promised them prime rib. Well, you usually want to shoot for as high as you can, especially the visionaries. He obviously wants everything he says he wanted to come true, the problem is that projects are ugly. There are thousands of things that go wrong or unaccounted for during the process.

His problem, like i've said, is that he went public with it. I see it all the time, developers open themselves up to the community, hoping to get them engaged or in the developing process, and the community just shit it right back at them. 

The gaming community is horrible. I've been gaming for 30+ years, ever since i picked up a book at the library and had to manually 'program' my Apple II to play Wheel of Fortune. I've played all the old adventure games on my 286. I gamed on the Amiga, on the Atari, first Nintendo, got into MMOs with Everquest, and i still game today. And i've never seen the gaming community as ugly as it is today. Any developer that opens themselves to it will almost certainly get burned.

Is it promising too much, 'a prime rib' like you said and getting a sausage instead? Maybe, but the game isn't even done yet and he's gotten so much hate. So no, i don't think it's over-promising. I think the community is just vile... maybe not all of it, but certainly the loudest are. 

These are just games people. If you don't like it, there are thousands of other games out there to play. We're in the best time for gaming ever, there's no need to be so emotionally attached to any single game. I disagree that it's a new thing, or indeed a general thing. Molyneux was roundly criticized for over promising on B&amp;W, and even more so on Fable - this is a consistent pattern with every release of his by now. The problem is first and foremost one of him (and certain other developers and designers) setting unrealistic goals and mismanaging expectations.

I personally learned my lesson and stopped listening to anything the man says over a decade ago - but I can certainly understand why people who perhaps weren't around for those earlier lessons feel cheated. I still think it's bullshit or a cop out when people say he's so passionate that he over promises, he flat out lies.  

I liked Black and White, but I was done with him after the first Fable turned out nothing like anything he was describing and haven't gone back since.  But I've still seen interviews with him overhyping shit and watched the inevitable backlash when he (again) delivers on none of it.  

Fable the Journey is probably the most blatant example I've seen.  I never played it but right on the Wikipedia description for it you can see it's an on-rails game.  yet when it was announced at E3, after showing a demo that was on-rails, he goes into every interview saying "It's not on-rails".  Maybe he meant you could move side to side a little, but the implication was you could go everywhere.  

[Here's an interview where he say's it's not on rails,](http://www.rpgsite.net/interview/2996-e3-2011-peter-molyneux-fable-the-journey-interview) yet that's pretty much a flat out lie.  There was also a video interview done that I couldn't find right now.   People really liked Fable 1, though.

I know, it came in way under the promises, but at least it was a good game, which is all that truly matters.

But PM hasn't made a good game since then. That's the shit of it.  I think I would have liked it a lot more if I didn't know who he was and buy into the hype.  But I did and even though I was playing an okay game the whole time I was thinking "seriously this is it?".  

I still remember that goddamn Frying Pan hype: "You can use anything in the game as a weapon, even a Frying Pan!".  The pan turned out to be the 1 unorthodox weapon in the game, like it was thrown in at the end just make part of that statement true.  It felt so cheap.   lol, yeah, with Kickstarter games it has become obvious that devs do stuff like the token frying pan a ton.  Seems at some point PM stopped doing even that. 

Kind of like the challenge CIG has with Star Citizen. The project is so visible, and their promises so impressive, that there will be quite a few people carefully tallying what was delivered against what was said. At least they have the budget to power through.  On the topic of the frying pan thing, Cavern Kids seems to be doing a really good job of making anything into a weapon. Those devs are making what looks like a really good system for using your environment to fuck with the enemies, and it's almost inspiring to see indies doing what fuckheads like Molyneux have been promising for years.  
  
EDIT: [video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=N59tLIvQeJE) demonstrating the dev using a blood covered rock to lure piranhas away from a chest Wow, sweet-looking demo! Even if you ignore all the ridiculous promises, his recent games aren't any good, either. Quite a tragic fall, I wonder what happened?

I once heard from someone who worked with Molyneux that he has been an "idea guy" all along. That might not be surprising for a veteran gamedesigner managing his own company, but, for example, Sid Meier still programs.

So here's a little theory: He used to, in the 90s, come into an office and say, "I want a game where the player can possess a creature and see with its eyes!" And that was just about when first person 3D became possible so some poor programmer slaved away for a couple of months and implemented that and it was quite amazing because of technology.

Today, he walks into the office of 22Cans and says, "I want players' communication to be more *meaningful* and social, like a piece of music." And some poor intern thinks "uhm so you can log in with facebook or something?" Those "big ideas" just don't do it anymore, because there's no more "big" new genres/gameplay-technology to be discovered. In a way, everything's been done. You have to be smart about the details, now, the implementation. You can't just say "how about if *every* part of the map could be shaped with the touch of a button?" because we've done that shit already in the 90s.  No, I think there's plenty left to be discovered.  VR is going to generate immersion like we've never had before.  It's going to bring new feeling to existing genres, especially the first-person ones like FPS, racing and other simulations.  And I think it's going to create new genres that we haven't thought about yet.

And that's just 1 new tech.  Proper motion control hasn't happened yet, and I think we're overdue for a new type of gamepad-ish controller that's even better.  Let's face it, the sticks on a gamepad just don't live up to the accuracy and control of a keyboard and mouse, and that's got to change.  Someone will figure it out.

The problem, as I see it, is that Molyneux used to have a boss that stopped him from being completely moon-eyed.  When he'd say, "I want the players to have meaningful communication," they'd say, "that doesn't mean anything, Molyneux." And when he'd say, "I want the players to be a god and control a giant beast," they'd say, "Yes.  Do it."

Now, he generally still underdelivered, but he underdelivered on something that was still fun and interesting, instead of being a pile of nothing.

There's a second problem, too:  He used to be insulated from the money aspect.  He was just designing fun games and didn't have to worry about budget or income.  He was shielded from that, and could rely on someone else to stop him before he got stupidly expensive.

Now, though...  He's running the ship!  He has to run every decision past his budget and what he sees is a ton of money in IAP apps.  He's aiming for money instead of fun, while telling us that he's aiming for fun.

In that same vein, he's knowingly *lying* now, where before he thought he was telling the truth, but always fell short.

I believe this started after Fable, when Microsoft started giving him more and more responsibility.  He can't handle the rest of that stuff, and they should never have handed it to him.

The best thing Molyneux could do for his name and career would be to sign up under someone else again and let them do the financial stuff, and just worry about making fun games again. &gt;No, I think there's plenty left to be discovered.

I find it more realistic to make peace with the possibility that "big idea" innovation will leave gaming over the coming years. I actually believe in precise wrist-area motion controls (like the Razer Hydra) as a great potential for input precision and VR looks like amazing for immersion. But neither has a particularly deep impact on game *mechanics* compared to 90s era technology revolutions like the internet, CD-ROM storage space and 3D graphics.

It sounds so sad to think that we won't see anything close to this rapid innovation anymore (even though I'm sure there's a few things left to come in the coming decades) but it's ultimately not that big of a deal. You can still have creativity in gameplay, it just won't come through "revolutionizing" anything, it will just be *one* specific idea, not a new genre, not a new technology, just a new game mechanic. Think Portal Braid Journey. Those games didn't need motion controls or hardware revolutions. You could have made them 10 years earlier, maybe 15 years earlier, with some graphical compromises. The idea has always been there. It was just not an obvious case of "slap trendy technology A onto game problem B and observe the result". 

When I look at all those big name developers "going mobile", nowadays (Molyneux isn't the only one), I see a desperate cling to the 90s golden age where technological innovation solved a lot of creativity problems for you. "Mobile touch devices" are maybe the closest thing we have to mainstream input hardware innovation in games but the technology wasn't made for games and it doesn't solve any real problem. I honestly don't think Molyneux went with a mobile game because of the microtransaction cash, it was his hope for an "innovative" platform and we know, through experience, that it really, really isn't.

So what's next? ["Social media."](http://www.funandseriousgamefestival.com/english/news/peter-molyneux-announces-the-trial-at-the-fun-serious-game-festival/) Sigh.

&gt;The problem, as I see it, is that Molyneux used to have a boss that stopped him from being completely moon-eyed. When he'd say, "I want the players to have meaningful communication," they'd say, "that doesn't mean anything, Molyneux." And when he'd say, "I want the players to be a god and control a giant beast," they'd say, "Yes. Do it."

The George Lucas fuck-up theory, hmm? To be honest I doubt Molyneux *ever* had that. Or *needed* that, in the early days. 

IMO it *does* come down to Molyneux trying to solve some big problem through fancy, modern technology and that's just not how great games are made, nowadays. He should instead think about mechanics, regardless of technology, and build a game from that. This upcoming generation of VR might even start with a step backwards in mechanics. If you've been listening to Carmack and Valve on the subject, things like lateral and backwards movement and forced movement (like getting knocked around by explosions) don't really work. We might get a round of games in the vein of early CD-ROM games that just filled the disc with video and threw game mechanics out. It's incredibly easy to see the impact afterwards, and incredibly hard to see it beforehand.  When Wolfenstein 3D was released, I didn't even consider the impact it would have.  It was neat, but I just couldn't see it.  

As for VR...  The virtual-travel aspect alone is going to be absolutely amazing.  Once we have proper controllers that let us use our hands as *hands* and actually feel like we're picking things up, the immersion is going to blow our minds.  And IMO we're not *that* far off from it.  It'll require proper location sensors (Hydra, STEM, etc) and proper force feedback (not invented, but essentially the opposite of the exoskeletons that the Japanese are engineering for workers to lift heavy loads), but it could be so close to actually experiencing a different place that it's crazy.

When we inevitably create a way to simulate temperature, taste, smell, etc...  It's going to be just like being there.

And then apply this to video games.  There will still be crappy little phone apps (but those will likely integrate into something like Google Glass but much less intrusive) but there will also be full experiences that let people do and experience things that just weren't possible for them before.

And if we invent anti-gravity technology?  Don't even get me started.  Freaking amazing.

So no, I can't agree that we should accept that all the good advances have already been made.  I can't imagine the new genres that are going to come from all this tech, but I *can* imagine the effect they'll have on existing genres, and that alone is stunning IMO.

... Dreamy-eyed rant over.  Back to Molyneux.

I won't deny that he lucked into some changing tech and it helped him.  But I think his wide-eyed-dreamer-ness also helped him visualize things that others just didn't.  (Maybe they *could*, but they didn't.)  

He continues to this day to occasionally have ideas that are good, but they aren't restricted back to the things that actually *are* good and can be done.  He needs someone else to place that restriction on him, and the Kickstarter backers weren't able to do it.  (Myself included.)

Ironically, I think @Molydeux's ideas are occasionally really good, too.  I'm always surprised by how many inspire me when I read through them, especially given that he's joking and not really trying to come up with good ideas.  I think there's a place in this world for dreamers, but they lack the self-control necessary to filter out the bad ideas.  It might even be necessary to have this lack-of-control in order to generate ideas of that level. &gt; But I think his wide-eyed-dreamer-ness also helped him visualize things that others just didn't. (Maybe they could, but they didn't.) 

I totally agree! I'm not dismissing that. I just believe he would have to adapt to make this approach still relevant, at least for the time being. He had his chance to make the Kinect work but failed. He had his chance to deliver a F2P mobile game that doesn't suck and failed. Now he's attempting to do a facebookian social game that doesn't suck and come on, should we really kid ourselves in how that will turn out?

I don't think any of this was his fault, I believe it was the fault of the technologies he trusted. Maybe if an exoskeleton with anti-gravity technology comes around, it will be his time to shine again, but until then maybe he should try to solve smaller problems with the same amount of enthusiasm and just trust established technologies?

Heck, you're right about @Molydeux, he's way less caught up in the "big picture" view than Molyneux himself. He also allows himself to dream on the small scale who says that has to be worse? &gt; Those "big ideas" just don't do it anymore, because there's no more "big" new genres/gameplay-technology to be discovered. In a way, everything's been done

Wat.

That literally makes exactly as much sense as saying "We have finally finished music - there are no new styles to be discovered."

I have no comment about the rest of your post, but as a game designer, the bit about having somehow discovered everything was enough to make me do a double-take.
 The emphasis is on "big", not "new ideas". Also it's not meant as a total absolute, more in contrast to decades of rapid hardware innovation in exactly the sweet spot needed for gameplay interaction. That simply slowed down in recent years.

There will be new games with great new ideas and gameplay. Amazing games. But they won't be made to "revolutionize" anything, the will just be great on their own and that's okay. What I'm saying is that Molyneux seems to be obsessed with finding some "grand solution" for how to fix social games or something and IMO that's futile. There's no hidden trick of how he magically solves this with passion. He could make a *specific* great game with great *game mechanics* and it could work. But he won't make a game that "reinvents how we communicate". 

Look at Curiosity, all the fucking meta stuff in it. It ultimately has no relevance because, mechanically, it does nothing interesting. You tap a goddamn cube! Yet look at what he wants it to be:

&gt;"There is something we haven't told everybody about when you play the cube. When you play the cube you're also doing something else. You don't realize you're doing it. [...] You're not just doing things in the cube. You don't realize it but you're doing something in something else as well at the same time."

&gt;"what is inside the cube is life-changingly amazing by any definition"

Just listen to this! Dude thinks he can reinvent gaming. Man, there were a few games that maybe did that. The first online games. Games that first added a 3rd dimension to gameplay. Heck maybe even some pioneering art games like [The Marriage](http://www.rodvik.com/rodgames/marriage.html). Stuff like that. But it's delusional to sit down and start designing a game based on the desire to "change everything we know about videogames!", nowadays. He actually has to think about mechanics, not just think of lofty meta stuff, hoping it will magically materialize. The basics are done, if you want to make a great game, nowadays, you have to go into detail. I guess it depends on what you consider a big idea.

Look at the Nemesis system in Shadows of Mordor -- I don't think there was a new concept in a game that got more attention/press/conversation/praise in 2014.  We'll probably see other games in the next year or two copy it and put their own spin on it.

And yet, the heart of it (you have some enemies that are individuals with unique names/traits that have their own story/advancement based on what you do) isn't a think it would take 2014 technology to realize.  You could have as easily had a system like this in an 80's computer RPG.

This makes me think we're nowhere near done mining "big ideas", but maybe I think of something different when I read those words than you do. Hmm, I'm using the term "big idea" because it's vague enough to include a lot of rather different things I consider to be similar in how they impacted game design over the years. Hardware, technology, major genres, etc. I'm pretty specific, though, about it meaning that they're ideas that are drastically different from what was there before yet broad enough to inspire a whole new field of interesting games based on them. Many interesting games of recent years, many of my favorites, are technically "dead ends", they're not "revolutionizing" anything, they're just plain great on their own and a single game (and maybe a sequel) managed to fully realize them. Other companies doing the same could only rip-off that first game, it's not broad enough to establish a whole "genre".

And it's not a bad thing!

Basically, the "big ideas" are "easy", in a way, in that they're pretty much obvious. As soon as the technology is there, you can do "a game where you play a god" or "a game where you see the world in first person". For a designer, all you have to do is pick up the computer science paper (which was probably written in the 70s) and let the algorithm run in real-time on that newly available hardware. Wow, mind blowing! That was what most of the "revolutions" in the 90s were all about. It's just that *that* phase has passed. It's more difficult now. But there's still potentially *great* ideas, *amazing* ideas. Most of them just won't be found by declaring that you're trying to "solve the social gaming", they will be discovered in very intense, intimate approaches that focus on a very, very specific goal. Katamari Damacy, Portal, Minecraft that's where we're headed in terms of creativity. And none of these games tried to "revolutionize" anything.  That RPS interview was like watching redditors interview him instead of a game review website. Kinda disappointing in my eyes that they'd start it that aggressive because now they won't get that many 1on1's anymore  I don't know why, but the thing that fucks me off the most is what he did to that kid... especially as they just forgot about him. The RPS interview was garbage. It's funny how Molyneaux was being criticized for  exaggerating, while the "journalist" repeatedly claimed it's been three years since the project was funded. 

It's actually much closer to two years. December 2012 to February 2015. I really appreciated that he came out of the woodwork last month to warn Microsoft not to overhype its Hololens.

Yes, because this man is the voice of reasonable expectations. There are two things I know about Peter Molyneux:

1.) His games aren't bad. In fact, they're quite good, but...

2.) His games never live up to the hype set by him and people are generally disappointed with his games.

If Molyneux can stay out of the limelight and just work behind the scenes, we'd all be better off. You've never played Godus. Even if I went into it with no expectations, it's one of the least fun games I've ever played. Fable would be an awesome series if he had have just **shut the fuck up and let the god damn game speak for itself.**

This "you can do anything!" horseshit then releasing games with the depth of a fucking puddle fucked that series over so hard. I'm sorry peter feels attacked but the man has been constantly promising heaven and delivering turds. From the last fable games to godus, nothing worked like he advertized it. maybe its good he wont talk anymore, maybe the empty promises will stop. Hell, from the first Fable game. I don't even mean how the game didn't have a fraction of all the things he was raving about all the way up until release day, but that it just wasn't a very good game at all. Combat was mind numbing, the world consisted of a single narrow hiking trail from one end to the other, socializing with NPCs meant farting at them until they wanted to marry you, and it was about 5 hours long (if you spent a couple hours farting at people). It was just such a shallow experience all together.

I know some people love the game, but I will never understand why. The game came out in 2004, so it wasn't exactly a product of its time. I suppose it has been 10 years, so maybe a lot of the fondness comes from it being some people's early gaming experiences. For me personally, Peter hasn't been involved with a good product since Black &amp; White. The character building in Fable really missed the mark too, I felt. You had three skill trees you could develop yourself along: Stealth/Ranged, Physical, and Magic. 

Stealth/Ranged was essentially nonviable, as far as I know. Fable was a game defined by combat, and I don't see any way you could complete much of the game just by sneaking past enemies, so you'd be forced to spam your gun/bow on enemies until they died, which would take forever and be mind-numbingly boring.

Magic was overpowered and all-around poorly designed. Most of the spells were underpowered or useless, as if they just didn't bother playing around with their damage and comparing it to the damage output of a Physical character. However, 2-3 spells were overpowered enough that you could just spam them and be a god. It was kind of fun, but it had very little depth. I found this really disappointing, since they had a lot of interesting spells that could have made a mage-styled character interesting to play.

Physical was well balanced, but it was as generic as it could have been. I think you just had one attack button and one combo your character would perform, broken up by blocking or rolling to dodge attacks. Your skill points just gave you more health, more damage, or faster attacks. And even B&amp;W severely under delivered on his promises. The Fable games have a lot of potential and if a decent developer picked it up we could have something on our hands that ends up being really good. It's just a shame that every good idea that come out of Fable ended up being only 50% of the original idea, one that stands out to me was in Fable 3 and the ability to have your weapons change based on what you kill but it was such a basic implementation that you could so easily over look it.  So who owns the Planetside and Everquest IP? Sony or Daybreak? The Former SOE, so Daybreak.

They have the IPs. [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] You will never recapture the feel of EQ. Every bit of mystery and unexplored land that you had to find will be datamined and mapped for you long before you arrive. Every NPC who you randomly find will have all of their drops, quests, and details found before you get there and easily avaliable. 

Instancing will destroy all of the competition you once had for drops and camps and raids. Then there are the thousands of MMO standards of quest markers, easy respawns, no death penalties, and iLvLed loot.

I'm sorry. I'd love to play EQ again. It just wont ever exist. EverQuest 1 and early WoW were just a product of the times.  No MMO will ever create that same feeling again (nostalgia aside) - like you said there's just too much datamining and information readily available online.  You actually had to TALK to people in early EQ1 to find stuff out! H, What Guk, What Sword, What Hamster, What Boo, Where Boo, Why Boo, 20 mins of searching later "Why did Boo the Hamster go in your pants?" Key term was "Boo the Hamster"

Some of the EQ1 lines were annoying, the fact that you could have turn ins ruined by people handing shit to NPC was also pretty hilarious and infuriating. IIRC some 60% of EQ quests were never completed by players. As much as that's pretty terrible design I liked running around in The Serpents Spine expansion with an awesome staff only obtainable through an obscure quest for which I could find little documentation and took me weeks to do. WHY DOES THAT SOUND SO AWESOME IT WAS TERRIBLE AGHHH. It is awesome and the thing is you didn't need to do the quests. They werent really there for experience but for items or flavor. There were really nice rewards to them such as AA points or neat rings but that was later in PoP. Access was also a popular thing for quests such as Vex'Thal. 

So the question then comes, should people focus on leveling via quests? I like the mechanics of WoW which originally forced you to go through the storylines of the zones. I think this was best done in Burning Crusade but the stories were a bit deeper if not great for leveling in Vanilla. 

I personally had a thing for "Happy Love Bracers" in EQ.  The same bugginess allowed you to cheat on quests though, so that was kinda neat...

Thinking about that, I'm amazed they allowed MQing to continue with how it subverts the whole point of quest rewards. The Binding of Isaac: Rebirth devs tried to add in a secret character into the game. It was supposed to take months of people talking about certain "bugs" and stuff. But people datamined it and found out how to do it in a few days. I do miss the days when easter eggs and secrets were actually secret and rumours.  Slightly correct.

However, the community as a whole was already piecing it together and was literally hours away from breaking the code.  The dataminers beat them by hours.  They way overestimated how long it would take people to do.  They thought months, but even legitimately  a collective of people were about to solve it day 3.

Essentially if you died in a certain room with a certain item on your death screen you got a map piece.  So a bunch of people on /r/bindingofisaac were dieing and posting the pieces they found. He may have thought it would take months but that was a massive over estimate. People were already well along the path to figuring it out. Datamining just sped up the process by a few days, at most. This wasn't any different back then.  We still had magelo (or whatever it was called) to look at people's gear and we still had allakhazam to look up drops and quests

The rest can easily be done through design decisions.  It would just take the right publisher who could look at 250-500k subscribers and be happy and not think 10m+ is a realistically attainable goal.   Allakazam and Illias beastiary. The thing was that they were horribly populated and a lot of the maps were shit. I remember when WoW first hit people tried to use the Allakazam WoW site. For maps (before LDoN at least), the best place to go was always EQAtlas. And the eq atlas site for your hand drawn maps! You can play vanilla EQ through Project 1999. They are currently beta testing the Veilous expansion.

And i know, all the modern day MMO expectations would never let a game designed like the old EQ to be profitable. People expect to be hooked up to a "fun" IV while playing newer MMOs. With Eve Online being an interesting exemption.

Maybe in 10 years there will be a new wave of "retro MMO games". Like the indie retro craze that has been profitable the last few years.

Though i will say, the DayZ mod showed us there is still a pretty large market of players desiring slower paced, i hate to use the term, "hardcore" games. Built around high risk investment gameplay with the story being created by player interaction within the games world. So maybe, one day. I think you can return a lot of the content to the game. The key is just that the pace has to scale properly. When every level is a serious achievement and reward with new spells, new skills, or upgrades to old ones that make a solid difference to your play then you get pumped about getting that level.

When gear makes a substantial difference to you and getting a new item is an achievement that you take pride in then you're willing to spend the time getting it.

Then you have to put in AA points because they gave players a reason to invest in a character. You also need to ensure you dont invalidate a players achievements every few months EQ did this well by ensuring raiding gear was a hell of a lot better then anything except the most dedicated solo/group content could accomplish.

The Coldain prayer shawl was a great item that took a ton of crafting work and time and it's best forms took raid effort. You didn't get anything equivalent to raiding items from Vanilla until Luclin expansion and that was 3 expacs in. 

Lastly, no fucking two faction system making it so you can only play with 60 or 30% of the playerbase depending on which side has the prettiest people.

Shit, I wonder if I can write a masters thesis in the lifecycles of MMOs through the 90s and 00s. Competition for drops sucked. I played EQ from 2005-2007 and frankly hated that big clans could essentially farm drops and keep people from getting needed items. That's why I love instanced loot. Unless you were one of those campers I don't get how you can say you'd go back to that mess. The only people it benefited were people out to screw other people over.  It still happens today on Project 1999.

A couple uber guilds keep all the loot until they fall apart. Then their shoes are immediately filled by another. Classic EQ was(/is) a unique experience where climbing the social ladder (making friends, etc.) is just as important as the gear ladder. Contested resources are a part of that. You aren't guaranteed a chance to get your epic (for most classes, anyway) purely by the game mechanics. You have to know the right people in a very literal sense to get to that step with their support. Your friends list is your most valuable asset, which is awesome and I'm sad that modern MMOs have departed from that. I usually farmed Veksar for the haste belt the undead blacksmith dropped. I also usually farmed lower guk and some of the other instances for the pages to make "Remove Greater Curse" This stuff usually netted me 20-40k platinum each item. In previous expansions the J-boots item off the giant, the Peridot Stein, the general shit in uhh...city with the air paths, etc.

I never had an issue with people routinely fucking me over, but then again I was a necromancer. As far as guilding goes I wasnt in the top, I was too stupid and young to play effectively and emotional maturity makes your ability to play a guild 100x easier. Bastion of Thunder was kinda fun for grinding AAs and diamonds.

Long story short, I like the idea of no instances, but more importantly I like the idea of not having a 2 faction system. If you have a problem with a guild camping what you need either out compete them, or join them and prove you're an awesome person to hang with or that you're a lot better then the people they run with currently. I think the #1 thing I miss most from EQ was that you could play with everyone and werent fucked by a stupid faction system. [deleted] After playing EQ2 for a long time I was only logging in to raid and destroy the contested avatars.  
When news of them being removed got around half my guild quit including me a couple weeks later.  
Rip &lt;Confirmed&gt; INCOMING TRAIN TO HILL!   
So many memories of farming stupid orc belts.... Aren't they making EQ Next? Yes, but it's going to be nothing like EQ. It'll have microtransactions and Minecraft elements of all things.  Voxel Proceduring in an MMO environment, completely destructible buildings and landscapes. 

Microtransactions might kill my interest, but if they do it right like Guild Wars 2 and not pay-to-win, then it'll be fun for sure.  I'm cautiously optimistic, with the emphasis on "cautiously."  &gt; first MMO reboot of our time

Wait what about Ultima online? &gt;  first MMO reboot of our time

Or FFXIV? A Realm Reborn is the only FFXIV to have ever existed. Don't let the facts get in the way of the truth. [deleted] [deleted] You say you want that, and then when it's given to you you realize how different things were back then and that you may have never wanted these things to begin with. :/ I can't fully disagree with you, but this [comic](http://imgur.com/mRK1lqv) comes to mind.

I wouldn't want a reboot to go full vanilla EQ, the time investment could be tuned down in some areas of the game. But sometimes, being hard on the player yields bigger rewards in the end. &gt; But sometimes, being hard on the player yields bigger rewards in the end.

I agree with this. What I'm saying here is something that I repeat to management of some mmos (should they listen) during the development phase of their games. Oddly it seems like the people who can see the large divide between the "hardcore" and the "being hard on your players" experience becomes smaller the higher you go. Comes from people who spend their time making money instead of playing mmos I guess?

I'm obviously not going to name mmos that didn't follow this trend because that would be beating a dead horse at this point.

Nolstagia is a very powerful thing in people's eyes, and is the only thing wrong with looking at things in hindsight. Couple that along with people often saying the opposite of what they genuinely want (which is why focus groups end up ruining whatever they're attached to most of the time) and you have one of the largest reasons to not take "going back to the old ways of the MMO" at face value with only looking on the surface. You know what I mean? Hopefully this means gamers will get a little stability. Why would you expect that?  Let's not confuse hoping and expecting. Although I do agree with your skepticism, given how the company has been run up to now, it isn't completely unreasonable to hope for something better. By and large, Verant designed and ran the original EverQuest with a great deal of quality when they were still only a minor part of the Sony family of companies. With the success of EverQuest, they made some staff changes, and formed into Sony Online Entertainment. It was around this time that a lot of people started to leave EverQuest for other games in the market, like Dark Age of Camelot. If their change of behavior at this time had to do with being a part of Sony, then no longer being under such constraints, SoE could do things they weren't able to do before.

However, that's if you're a person that felt EQ was hurt by the shift of Verant to SoE. So while I tend to agree with you, that we shouldn't really expect many changes, if any, it isn't completely out there to think that they may be able to do things they couldn't do before. &gt; given how the company has been run up to now, it isn't completely unreasonable to hope for something better

If John Smedley resigns and someone steps up as CEO who is not a total asshole, I have hope. Otherwise not. It boggles my mind how people see this guy in a positive light. He does two things: 1) over-hyped marketing before release and 2) apologizing for failure after. These go hand in hand. 

He's like a cute little puppy that shits on the floor, absolutely infuriating you, and then gives you those puppy eyes and makes YOU feel bad for HIM. 

All the H1z1 players who are unfamiliar with SOE/DGC and their history are getting a rude awakening in a lot of ways.  [They still own all of their current games according to Smedley.](https://twitter.com/j_smedley/status/562307057529810944) [**@j_smedley**](https://twitter.com/j_smedley/)

&gt; [2015-02-02 17:50:24 UTC](https://twitter.com/j_smedley/status/562307057529810944)

&gt; All of our games are still here and will continue to be :)

----

^This ^message ^was ^created ^by ^a ^bot

[^[Contact ^creator]](http://www.reddit.com/message/compose/?to=jasie3k&amp;amp;subject=TweetsInCommentsBot)[^[Source ^code]](https://github.com/janpetryk/reddit-bot)
 That doesn't explicitly say they own the IP, they could have a licencing agreement for the current games but own the ip for future releases/iterations. &gt; That doesn't explicitly say they own the IP, they could have a licencing agreement for the current games but own the ip for future releases/iterations.

https://twitter.com/j_smedley/status/562348240658370560 ? [**@j_smedley**](https://twitter.com/j_smedley/)

&gt; [2015-02-02 20:34:03 UTC](https://twitter.com/j_smedley/status/562348240658370560)

&gt; @Yalstromo they came with us.

----

^This ^message ^was ^created ^by ^a ^bot

[^[Contact ^creator]](http://www.reddit.com/message/compose/?to=jasie3k&amp;amp;subject=TweetsInCommentsBot)[^[Source ^code]](https://github.com/janpetryk/reddit-bot)
 The tweet seems a bit ambiguous. Does that mean they own it or does it mean they will still be available and continued to be worked on?  Why did they keep Smedley? Can they disown him? Based on a quick look at uspto.gov, their trademarks either only mention SOE LLC or have SCE America as registrant and SOE LLC as 'last listed owner'. Unless Sony performed some dark arts of accounting, it would be a safe bet to assume SOE own everything related to their own developed properties. Surely the Everquest trademark alone must be worth a lot.

\* edited for clarity. It's not clear who you mean as "they" in your key sentence. SOE LLC. No this is not necessarily true.  Updating trademark registration ownership information in the USPTO (if the companies even bothered) can be a lengthy process.  What is displayed on the USPTO website is not as up to date (or as relevant) as the private contracts that were undoubtedly drafted. Then there's the question of publishing (which was probably SCEA for Planetside). 

The likelihood of Planetside coming to Xbox One any time *soon* is slim. Maybe 2016/2017? I'd imagine they'd work that into the SKU schedule if PS2 on PS4 is profitable (to the tune of studio-supporting profitability).  ~~SOE~~ Daybreak is already strongly hinting at supporting Xbox via Twitter. I doubt they will want Sony or Microsoft as a publisher so they can support as many platforms as possible. Depending on the financial situation of Columbus Nova, they may not even need a publisher. That would be a marked risk for an investment holding company to take on. What is their experience with software development? Publishing? What is their holding asset value (like what could they survive if things didn't go so hot with Big New Title A)? 

I think it's exciting to consider Planetside coming to Xbox One. 

I think it's equally interesting to consider if it's just a hint at other, non-Planetside titles coming to Xbox One (which I personally believe is likely what these tweets are hinting at). It's not just an investment holding company. It looks like they've done some VC funding too- they did a series B investment in 42 Floors, which is one of the start-ups that came out of Y Combinator. So they're not against taking risks. And one of the managing partners owns Harmonix (personally, not through Columbus Nova), so they're not exactly strangers to the game industry either. This will be interesting.  &gt; That would be a marked risk for an investment holding company to take on. What is their experience with software development? 

You can say the same thing about acquiring a video game developer. Looks like they're prepared to learn the industry and take the challenge. Yes - that *is* what I'm saying ;) 

Though self-publishing may be in the cards,  I think the prospect of it actually happening any time soon is doubtful for this investment firm - what with having just purchased a studio that has been a loss-leader for their parent (formerly Sony) for much of 2013 and 2014. [source](http://recode.net/2014/05/14/sony-misses-fiscal-year-expectations-with-profits-down-88-percent/) [source](http://www.forbes.com/sites/danielnyegriffiths/2014/05/14/sony-fy-2014-earnings-winning-the-console-battle-losing-the-profits-war/) [source](http://www.gamesindustry.biz/articles/2014-05-14-sonys-game-division-reports-full-year-loss)

Talk about snatching up a deal ;) They probably negotiated a fair acquisition rate ("Buy It Now" price for SOE) because of the above. It's smart.

Granted, that loss-reporting happens with unreleased, still-in-development titles. But that's just it - SOE has not been profitable in quite some time. 

The strength of the PS4 (speaking strictly in terms of sales) itself is likely motivating the decisions behind focusing on PS4 development - which incurs cost (which in turn drives down profitability). 

So, it's more likely that this investment firm is focused on achieving profitability (non-GAAP; though ideally GAAP) - and then strengthening the portfolio.

The roadmap is likely something like A) selling Daybreak (or their stake in it) ....  OR  .... B) diversifying those strengths once profitability is achieved - which may entail self-publishing.

**TL;DR** - no, probably not going to get into self-publishing any time soon until profitability and ROI are in the black. SOE has been slowly moving over to Steam-only for their games for the last year.  H1Z1 can only be purchased on steam, and it looks to remain that way for the future.   [deleted] Who the hell is Columbus Nova? They don't even have wiki page. Considering how many games SOE had, they probably paid big bucks to Sony to get them. They bought Harmonix according to Harmonix's wiki but yea it's hard finding stuff on them. Its common for IM/PE/HF firms to not have a web presence. A holding company that specializes in tech, it looks.  Though they don't have enough tech to keep their page from being [slashdotted](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Slashdot_effect). They probably just hit their hosting company limit and want to keep it that way. It's a holding company, they don't need their name out there. Once this dies down they will pay for more traffic, but why would they want to spend a fortune to stay up in this case? It's not all that great to be acquired by an investment firm. I predict a lot of restructuring in the name of what makes sense to turn a profit. Who knows what project may be cut following this news. Better or worse than Sega being acquired by a slot machine company? 

I'm thinking it will be about the same.  Are you talking about SNK or did I miss some recent news? Sega merged with Sammy years ago. I believe Sammy is/was primarily a pachinko machine company? It is.  The Sammy part of Sega Sammy Holdings continues to handle gambling machines while the Sega part handles more traditional video games. The investment firm in question doesn't have the best reputation, the owner is a front for a russian petrochem company:  

Andrew Intrater  
Mr. Intrater has been the Chief Executive Officer of Columbus Nova since January 2000. He is a former Director and current Member of the Executive Board of Renova Management.  
[Source](http://www.columbusnova.com/andrew_intrater.html)

http://www.themoscowtimes.com/business/article/u-s-court-charges-renova-group-billionaire-duo-for-armed-takeover-in-russia/502610.html Yep, as someone who worked under an acquisition like this, there will be a lot of cheeriness and happiness in the press release, then the hammer starts falling.  Short term profits, i.e. desperately milking the cow for every drop before selling the flesh for beef. I have a feeling Landmark is going to get the axe. They'll axe EQNext first. It's a lot easier to cut ties with something that doesn't actually exist.

Landmark might be a little more complex because people have paid for access. They have already spent so much money on EQNext. I doubt they would axe it at this point. I feel like they would give it a shot. The new company hasnt spent any money on EQ next. They bought the entire house and there happened to be a project car sitting in the garage. Doesnt matter if the previous owner dropped 30 grand on it if they dont think its worth their time and money to finish then they wont. &gt; They have already spent so much money on EQNext. I doubt they would axe it at this point. I feel like they would give it a shot.

We don't even know where they're at in the development process of EQN beyond what they've done in Landmark and what little they showed at SOE-Live last year. Which looking back is just another Landmark demo pretending to be EQN.

 EQN has been "on the horizon" for 5+ years now. They basically conned  people into developing content for them in Landmark to begin with ("pay us money so you can test our unfinished game and we'll let you make assets for us!"). All of their videos focus on community created content in Landmark. 

I played EQ1 for close to a decade and EQN would be a fantastic experience if it turns out that they plan to finish it. But I'm no longer holding my breath and any hype surrounding it died a long time ago.



 Ah that's a shame.

Don't know if anyone remembers, but years ago SoE used to host/publish a multiplayer shooter called *Infantry*, back in the early 2000's. 

I spent many hours of my youth playing that game, seeing this news  just reminded me of it!

http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Infantry_(video_game) Oh man! Infantry was THE SHIT back in the day, totally worth the $7 a month to play it. The CTF mode was insanely fun and insanely competitive. Shame so few people played it. 
 Played it so much when it was free to play.  CTFX was the best shit ever.  Kliest's Ridge was amazing.  Gravball was a time to chill and have fun.  TP is a classic.  My god I miss that game.  Stopped when it became a monthly sub because I was still a kid back then.  Tried out Free Infantry, but it died out/was forced to shut down.  I truly miss that game and would play it again if the playerbase was still there. God I loved Infantry.  I'd love a modern remake Wasted so many hours on that game.  Some of the best team based multiplayer combat ever. [Maybe Xbox One will be getting Planetside 2 now.](https://twitter.com/j_smedley/status/562305663083098112) [**@j_smedley**](https://twitter.com/j_smedley/)

&gt; [2015-02-02 17:44:51 UTC](https://twitter.com/j_smedley/status/562305663083098112)

&gt; can't wait to make Xbox One games!

----

^This ^message ^was ^created ^by ^a ^bot

[^[Contact ^creator]](http://www.reddit.com/message/compose/?to=jasie3k&amp;amp;subject=TweetsInCommentsBot)[^[Source ^code]](https://github.com/janpetryk/reddit-bot)
 Ah Fuck. Of course the pc players are going to get shafted again while dev resources work on another fucking port... Warframe on PC is absolutely *thriving* ever since it was put on PS4.  In fact the PC version has probably benefited from the increased income that may have been redirected into development. 
 &gt; to get shafted again while dev resources work on another fucking port...

That's how business and markets work. There's a lot of money to be made from console gamers. In the f2p market? I dunno. Plus they're bleeding pc subs... &gt; f2p market

Especially the f2p market.

Did you watch the superbowl last night? THREE mobile, free-to-play games could afford commercial spots.

Free-to-play is a HUGE market. I'd wager that free-to-play, with optional purchases, make a ton more money than subs do for most games. Mobile is different than consoles. We'll see, though. 

Do the guys who do Warframe have any numbers on their transition into consoles? Nearly all my friends are playing and do spend real money. They posted and [infographic last year](http://www.digitalextremes.com/news/2014/03/warframe-year-1-infographic), where the vast majority of the playerbase is on PC.
 well yeah, of course their largest would be on pc. My question is how much are they banking from the console versions. Sense the ps4 launch, we have seen many many patches and UI changes (not a fan of the ship, but it works).

Also, that was in march. We have had the xbox one launch sense then as well. The two biggest PC games in the world are free to play... While agree with you in the most general sense, Clash of Clans is a far cry from Planetside 2, it's a very different game that appeals to a very different demographic. I see so many kids starting with ages around 7-8 playing Clash of Clans on anything from really shitty/old smartphones to first-generation iPads and crappy $70 Wally World tablets.

Planetside 2 is a very unforgiving game where you die a lot at the start (more so than in any other game I've ever played) and Planetside 2 requires a very beefy rig to run it. I mean, I can play Crysis 2 comfortably on 2008 gaming laptops on okay-ish settings at native 1366x768 res (think GTX 260M or 9800M GT laptops). Planetside 2 doesn't run well on most modern gaming laptops. And I work professionally with gaming laptops, I have hundreds of them pass through my hands every month... Further down he seems much more affirmative about H1Z1 coming to Xbox One:

http://i.imgur.com/UlE72pz.png Maybe eventually, but we have to assume that Sony knew this split was coming up, and that the contract that exists between Sony and the former SOE has an exclusivity clause, at least for some amount of time. EDIT: I dun goof, yeah Planetside 2 wasn't cross platform on PS4 either. I was thinking it was going to because of War of Thunder is on PS4/PC.


Whoah what, that knocks some wind off their marketing sail boat. Planetside was always shown as Sony press events for the PS4. Although I'm not entirely convinced that statement is confirmation (unless I'm mistaken). There's the fact that Microsoft prohibits PC and X360/XBone cross multiplayer. PS2 wasn't going to be cross multiplayer anyway, they didn't want PC patches delayed by the Playstation approval process. Planetside 2 isn't gonna be cross-platform anyway.  If it happens it probably won't have cross play and have a self contained community. It's exciting to me either way. They prohibit it? They were just showing X1/PC cross play with Fable Legends at the Windows 10 event. Could be PS2, could be H1Z1, could be nothing. Word of warning though, SOE takes their sweet, sweet time. If the PS4 still hasn't gotten Planetside, it's going to be a long while before they get any games running and released on other consoles.  Any chance of cross platform play with ps4/PC/xbone on ps2 and h1z1?? That would be cool! Okay, now let's talk about stuff that really matters here: how does the new logo look like? I work for SOE/Daybreak (you can check my post history for Planetside posts). The new sign could look a bit better. Here's a pic: http://imgur.com/bOgiH3k That's hilarious. How's the mood over there? We're in good spirits. I think it's cool we'll get to make Xbox games now. Though, one of our guys on PS4 port of Planetside was happy there wasn't an Xbox dev kit on his desk when he got in this morning. Yea they take a couple days to ship :p So is there an ETA on an Xbox Planetside? Is extending the company into the Xbox market now high on the priority list for you guys? This news was announced internally just this morning, only a few hours before the press releases went out. I expect day to day stuff to not change right away. [deleted] [deleted] My friend and I played Planetside 2 for the first time yesterday and while it took a while for us to understand everything we had a great time and the exhilaration from capturing a huge base is beyond anything any game has done before. Our only complaint was that the frame rate would drop really bad sometimes and that as players who don't pay for the game yet we're having trouble fighting against players who have. I understand it's f2p and thats the deal though and its not too bad. 

Thanks for taking the time to reply here!  If yesterday was your first time playing you probably weren't so much having issues fighting players who played so much as players who have more experience than you. The paid components of the game are, in my experience, pretty respectable.

Though yeah, that first time taking a base is something the fuck else. They move quickly. Did you/most employees know about this as a possibility in advance? Just like in any company, there were rumors beforehand. But we were given the official news this morning a little before all the press went out. That's what I'd guess, it seems irregular that a studio would separate intact from such a large parent company while retaining its own IP. Glad to hear you should be getting more resources at your disposal, looking forward to what you guys put out next. The codes and modules! Give the Pre-CU codes and modules to [SWGEmu](http://www.swgemu.com/forums/index.php) so we can finally play Jump to Lightspeed expansion again! There are some massive IP issues with that.  It's not just Sony that had their fingers in that pie, but also LucasArts.  

Getting Disney to agree to anything related to the Starwars IP that they don't completely control is about a monumental task as building the death star right now.  

It's not gonna fucking happen.   So, now that SOE is free, when will we get a reboot of [this game?](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Infantry_%28video_game%29) Before anyone jumpes to conclusions:

1. SoE wasn't  ever really part of ~~SCE (the umbrella that has their other studios, like ND and MM, under it).~~ SOE was officially part of SCE, they just seemed to operate on their own and were largely PC first, which didn't really work in sync with the rest of Worldwide Studios, all of which are PS focused. 

2. If you think about it, with Sony's new focus on PlayStation, SOE kind of doesn't fit in anymore. They've  always been a PC first company with PS as an afterthought and that probably didn't  go with Sony's new plan.

3. This does not mean Sony will start selling off their real pS studios, it entirely different. 

All in all, I've got to day that while surprising, this move does make quite a bit of sense. Sony can even use the money they got to further fund SCE or heck, maybe aquire aome new first party (RaD and QD should be ip to bat if they're next games don't  disappoint).

This way, SOE continues to focus on PC, can now also work on more consoles which will help them out and Sony doesn't  have to worry about it anymore. Look at how long PS2 has taken to get on PS4 &gt; SoE wasn't ever really part of SCE (the umbrella that has their other studios, like ND and MM, under it.

SCE obtained direct control of SOE in 2008. Yeah, this is just Sony trying to become more streamlined.  SOE didn't fit into Sony's future with Playstation, so they sold the studio.

Makes sense to me.  Hopefully this will give the devs a little more freedom; though I think they were allowed free reign to begin with. &gt; If you think about it, with Sony's new focus on PlayStation, SOE kind of doesn't fit in anymore. They've always been a PC first company with PS as an afterthought and that probably didn't go with Sony's new plan.

I'm not sure I buy it.  Consoles have been moving *toward* PCs, not away from them.  Today, developing multi-platform games is easier than ever.  What about SOE's past makes you think they couldn't develop for PS4 and PC concurrently? Yeah, SOE didn't really do much for the Playstation brand and never had a particularly good reputation overall (prime example being how they handled Star Wars Galaxies.) It makes sense for them to get rid of it. So does that mean we'll see new installments of my favorite ARPG, Champions of Norrath? I would LOVE to play those on PC.  More cash grabs are coming people. Investment company can mean only 1 thing. I really hope they don't end up somehow screwing up Planetside's F2P model. That seems like an easy cash grab, if this new company is willing to screw over users. If they wanted more money they'd lower the cost of station cash. It seems so weird. In the beta, Planetside 2 seemed so well put together and the monetization was perfectly balanced with the F2P elements. 

Sounds like they went into super greed mode after the game launched. Good for them.

Maybe someone would then man up and come forward and answer some questionable decisions, so it isn't forgotten with the name change:

* Why the complete overhaul of Star Wars Galaxies, which immediately killed the playerbase, and then follow up with 'fixes', changing the core of the game to a class-based typical MMORPG. (Answered [here](http://www.reddit.com/r/IAmA/comments/xlir0/iama_john_smedley_22_year_game_industry_veteran/c5ne58n))

* How The Matrix Online failed, and how they defend the game with experience from *Everquest* and *Everquest 2*. Everything was perfect for this game' launch. But SOE blew it.

* Why PoxNora turned into a Lol-esque grinding machine, where the more the better - rather than strategy. (Answered [here](http://www.reddit.com/r/Games/comments/2ujbvf/sony_online_entertainment_becomes_daybreak_game/co8y4oc))

* Clone Wars Adventures


Personally, I'm mostly invested in Star Wars Galaxies, as it was my first MMO experience, so seeing it get completely destroyed by below-average designers hurt and I would love an explanation.

EDIT: 2/4 answers within 30 mins? I'll be watching your games &gt;:) One of the guys who worked on SWG made a blog post about it somewhere. Basically stated that before the overhaul SWG was  hemorrhaging subscribers at a very quick pace.

Granted, the overhaul put the nail in the coffin, but they apparently thought it was time for drastic measures.  Which overhaul are you referring to? The CU or NGE? A lot of people left after the CU was launched, so it would make sense that subscribers were hemorrhaging before the NGE hit. The damage was already done by the time the CU hit. Well, with the inflation of poison/disease/fire weapons, CM status, stacking tapes and with everyone and their mother grinding jedi something had to be done. CU basically fixed that. What would you have liked them to do instead?

I wish they'd bring back the last version of SWG. That was a content rich and pretty balanced game. And fun to play! I don't know why its so hard for people to understand.  SWG was a hit with a niche fanbase, but you don't make a Star Wars MMO to only appeal to a niche fanbase.  Once they saw the success WoW had its not hard to see them decide to chase after it.  Obviously they fucked it up, but why they did it isn't hard to suss out. Reddit doesn't understand that it is the niche fanbase personified. Folks round here only hear the echo chamber and think they're a legion.
 This comment makes me think of severl users on /r/vita who claim that there are loads of varied vita games coming out and cant understand people who say there are no games - then get angry when you point out all the games are either indie PC ports or Japanese titles (which are obviously based around Japanese cultural references) both of which I would argue are fairly niche if you are trying to appeal to a mass audience (for clarification I am a vita owners who doesn't mind these genres) Careful, you're going to give someone an existential crisis when they realize they're surrounded by thousands of identical opinions about stuff most people don't care about. I was thinking the same thing. MxO was originally developed by Monolith in partnership with Warner Brothers.  The general consensus among fans is that SOE didn't actually *want* MxO, but acquired it as part of a package deal to purchase DC Universe Online.

The failure of MxO was multiple-fold, and had little to do with SOE.  And everything was certainly *not* perfect for the game's launch.  Quite the opposite, in fact.

* The luke-warm (at best) reception of the Matrix sequels did little to drive interest in the game.  Not to mention the last Matrix game prior to MxO ended up being something nobody really wanted or asked for.
* The game launched at a time when that luke-warm reception was petering out into non-existence.  For the most part, people had simply stopped caring about The Matrix in general.
* The MMO launched in a very buggy and exploitable state.  In some cases people were logging in as *other people's characters*.  
* Before the combat revision, PvP was abysmal if you didn't choose the Hacker tree.  
* The whole concept of the game centered around live events which tied into the ongoing narrative established by the films.  MxO was essentially "The Matrix Part 4".  You played the game to take part in these spur-of-the-moment events, which by their nature were unrepeatable.  As a result, the game launched with literally zero end-game.  If there wasn't a live event going on, there was just *nothing* else to do.

So with all of that considered:

* The game was played by mostly hardcore fans of the trilogy, which was already a small group of people.
* The bugs and exploits at launch caused that already small group of people to dwindle even further.  
* Because the live events team all operated in the Western US timezone, people in other timezones were unable to take part in the live events.  To say nothing of the people playing across the pond.  A lot of people stopped playing simply because their geography locked them out of the game's most interesting content.

On top of all of *that*...

MxO was apparently developed with the mindset that it would be played by overly inquisitive people.  The movies, afterall, centered on a super hacker who was prophecized to overthrow a digital prison.  So the game's code was deliberately obfuscated to deter prying eyes from learning its secrets.  But it turned out that when SOE acquired MxO, they terminated practically everyone who knew their way around the obfuscated code.  And apparently no documentation was kept, because *several* bugs that existed at launch remained for the five years until the game shut down.  

I know people like to bag on SOE for how they (mis)manage their games.  But I can tell you with all reasonable certainty that the people who worked on MxO (whatever was left of the original Monolith team) did so with a level of passion that is exceedingly rare in the industry.  Annual cuts to both staff and budget did not deter them from churning out regular content to keep players interested.  Roles and responsibilities were constantly merged and absorbed until the team literally consisted of **one person** who managed everything about the game except for quality assurance.  He was the sole developer, artist, writer, live events team, and community manager.  We often wondered how he found the time to sleep.

MxO failed because of a perfect storm of unfortunate circumstances.  SOE could have shoveled all of their money into fixing the game, but that likely wouldn't have saved it. &gt; Roles and responsibilities were constantly merged and absorbed until the team literally consisted of one person who managed everything about the game except for quality assurance. He was the sole developer, artist, writer, live events team, and community manager. We often wondered how he found the time to sleep.

You might say he was... The One. &gt; How The Matrix Online failed, and how they defend the game with experience from Everquest and Everquest 2. Everything was perfect for this game' launch. But SOE blew it. How? Why? Explain.

I played MxO from the time it released until the very moment the servers were shut down. Everything was not perfect as you say. It suffered severely from a gameplay standpoint, with a combat system that was really bizarre, and SOEs Combat 2.0 initiative did very little to alleviate it.

You had to be a hardcore fan of the Matrix universe to be able to derive enjoyment from simply being in the game, because there wasnt much else. Content came from a pre-made script for the first year of the games life, but after that, it was too expensive and too unwieldy back then for the devs to keep on expanding on it while keeping player involvement in the games future relevant and meaningful. Meanwhile, the actual game, what you played, was a very mediocre MMO experience compared to what you could get in WoW (and remember this was during WoWs heyday).

Like, they were operating on a skeleton crew, and there was one dev who basically had to play as all of the Live Event characters (which were popular characters from the Matrix such as Morpheus, Seraph, the Merovingian, et cetera) at once, and anytime there was a Live Event, the whole server population would pounce on the location and create insanely massive lag. Eventually it got smarter, but by then the dev was winging it (there was no more prewritten content), and it was just impossible for just one guy to keep fulfilling the promises of an engaging and neverending storyline.

The players like me who played until its death were into roleplaying. We devised our own content, and it felt like half the game was just posting on the forums with outrageously long fan fiction of the Matrix, photomanipulated screenshots depicting things that were impossible in the game, and things like that. Yeah it was pretty dumb in hindsight. But dammit, I shed some real tears when the servers finally closed.

The game was just extremely limited by technical problems. The aspiration was there, but the staff needed, the technology, and the money was definitely not. I worked at SOE Tucson (and Octopi before that) on Pox Nora, and I can tell you that the "free to play" changes we made in, what, 2010 or 2011 before we closed were done just to try to grow the playerbase. We never had any intention of making the game into grinding for gold or whatever, but to give people alternate options for being able to play the game. We launched Pox Nora in 2006, years before people were talking about free to play or pay to win or any of those things. Originally you couldn't earn cards or play for free unless you wanted to use a fixed starter deck. Changes to be able to earn gold and be able to buy cards with that were just a attempt to try to adapt to the changing face of the free to play market.

If you haven't seen Pox Nora lately, I'd suggest you check it out again. Desert Owl Games has done a lot of work to update the game and rebalance it and they just launched an expansion last week or the week before I think.

Disclaimer: former Octopi/SOETucson employee, friends with current employees of Desert Owl Games Thank you for the response!

&gt; I can tell you that the "free to play" changes we made in, what, 2010 or 2011 before we closed were done just to try to grow the playerbase.

It's good to hear the thoughts behind - which are agreeable - Pox was in need of change.

&gt; We launched Pox Nora in 2006, years before people were talking about free to play or pay to win or any of those things

And we love you for it!

&gt; Changes to be able to earn gold and be able to buy cards with that were just a attempt to try to adapt to the changing face of the free to play market.

I like this thought, but I feel this creates quite a few flaws in the learning curve of the game for new players (ironically).

For example, starting out as UD and, relatively, slowly building up an understanding of Deep Elf champs. This seems like a weird thing to bring up, but Poxnora' mechanics are generally punishing to fail and a stronger opponent, generally, has a stronger pressence on the playing field if compared to other games of similar format.

&gt; If you haven't seen Pox Nora lately, I'd suggest you check it out again.

I'm checking it out right now! :D Either way, SWG gameplay was not a sustainable model. There are many players that can attest to that. There is even a serve called Bloodfin thats trying to makes changes to that. The economy and mechanics were TOO grindy. The player driven economy was TOO random and eventually the market got flooded and we began to see the shallow "end-game" that it was. But the direction they went in was aweful and the Jedis actually killed the game. They just needed to promote more weapon variety, more stats, more loot, more content. They needed player-driven quests. They needed better market tools ect. Instead like you said they went towards an typical MMORPG.

Also the combat is horrible in that game, its so hard to play TAB base targeting now-a-days but SWG was up there. I still miss their economy and its unfortunate that I dont think Repopulation will server that angle either.  Oof, I'm guessing Sony lost confidence in the dev and allowed it to be sold?  Surely they didn't have the power independently to go that route.

Either way, sounds like everyone is keeping their jobs for now, which is a good thing.  SOE has been reducing in size for about 15 years, I'd say. From the days of Everquest and Star Wars Galaxies, to recent 'smaller' stuff like H1Z1 and Planetside 2.

I don't know if it really means they 'lost confidence', though. It certainly won't be as a result of any recent events like people's reaction to the airdrops either, before anyone assumes as much! good point, and definitely not due to the airdrops thing. Just saying that SOE isn't the cash cow they were during the Everquest and Galaxies days. Though to be honest I have no idea how successful their latest ventures have been RIP SWG. Best MMO I've ever played pre-CU. Was SOE really that intertwined with Sony? I thought it was always just a brand type thing.  They never were, which is why it makes sense. I hope people understand the difference between SOE and Sony's studios. This doesn't  mean we'll be seeing UC or GT on Xbox, far from it. In fact, it really does work in the sense that Sony is trying to incorporate PlayStation into their overall services. SoE just didn't fit, not to mention their projects always take forever and there has been some downsizing. Sony probably just didn't  know what to do with them or what they wanted so they just sell it off.

Nothing of value is lost since the games still come to PS4 (whenever that may be) and Sony now doesn't  have to worry and can focus their game division  solely around SCE I'd imagine part of it is that Sony isn't doing particularly great overall financially. I doubt SOE is worth megabucks, but it won't hurt if they got a nice figure for it. &gt;I'd imagine part of it is that Sony isn't doing particularly great overall financially. I doubt SOE is worth megabucks, but it won't hurt if they got a nice figure for it.

They're actually doing pretty decently now. They're just hovering near 0 because they're writing down assets.

Essentially, they did worse a couple years ago than anyone realised, and it's only now being properly reported even though the danger has passed (because accounting can be slow like that sometimes). I think this was a bad call for Sony, Playstation exclusivity for H1Z1 and PS2 could have done them good.  &gt; It also means new exciting developments for our existing IP and games as we can now fully embrace the multi-platform world we are living in.

H1Z1 to Xbox One, then! 

And possibly Planetside 2.

Edit- John Smedley, the president of ~~SOE~~ Daybreak Game Company has in fact already tweeted he "can't wait to make Xbox One games" and that there's at least a "chance" of H1Z1 coming to X1:
https://twitter.com/j_smedley/status/562307982927462400 What games is this new company known for?  Just curious and their site seems down. As the previous poster listed a few, they also have several games still in the hopper.

Landmark - now in closed beta.  It's a minecraft type game, but not blocky and a ton of capability and promise.

EQ Next - reboot of Everquest.  Very sandbox oriented and making huge promises for AI.

H1Z1 - just entered early access and has gotten an amazing response from the community so far. Amazing response from the community? I thought the had a civil war brewing over the pay-to-win drops? There was the first day before anyone actually played it.  The air drops were broken and landing on top of people's heads instead of very far away.  They fixed it and if you call in a drop, you are most likely not going to be walking away with anything.  It's not pay to win and if you look at the subreddit now, no one is talking about it anymore.  You can get air drops from doing the battle royal event anyway, so people aren't going to be spending $5 for a drop that they aren't going to get. [Here's the list!](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Daybreak_Game_Company#Games)

A few notable examples include:

H1Z1

Planetside 2

Everquest

Star Wars Galaxies

Plus lots of porting and co-development on major(or at least well-known) titles. Ah sorry, I should have been more clear.  I was asking about the company that bought SOE, was wondering about their experience with gaming prior to this.

 Ah.

They're not a games developer or publisher, they're mainly a holding company.  I believe they own Harmonix now(at least, I found a wiki page that says they do)? I will say Planetside 2 is a real niche game. I enjoyed it immensely for the 500~ hours I've put into in the past, eventually moved on to other games but more because I was done with FPS's at the time, not the gameplay. I have to say, even though it has large faults, planetside 2  has just ruined other FPS's for me... yeah you start Battlefield, instantly blown up by graphics, immersion and everything....... then you realize there is only 60 players on the map :( Excellent.

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XXvuUp-KY5g I know it's highly unlikely but with the comment from Smedly about developing for the xbox, I can always cross my fingers for EverQuest Next on the one.   This is a good thing right? The investiment made in renaming (rebranding, reorganization, or whatever re- they did) could've certainly went into netsec or IT !!

Probably IT now has to answer to marketing dept.  It's a pretty amazing and apt name, when you think about the games they've released, pretty much without exception.

I mean, at first you're blinded by its brilliance, but as time goes on either it's going to become dull or you're going to get burned.  Not really surprised. Sony is  hemorrhaging money. They've been forced to sell shops, buildings, even entire divisions. 

They're extremely lucky Microsfoct cocked it up with Xbox giving PS4 early lead on a silver platter, otherwise they'd be in very dramatic situation. Soooo, they really made a company called They Break Game? Who's idea was that? "So when we have glaring security issues with Daybreak, it's not affiliated with Sony guys!" Have there been any security problems with SOE that weren't related to Sony itself being hacked?  I hadn't heard of any, but I dont really pay attention beyond EQN news IF this means Planetside 2 on my xbox I will cry tears of joy.
I could care less about H1Z1 and Everquest though... [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] I just hope they include the Mos Eisley Hero only mode from SWBF2, that mode was the best, just a huge, ridiculous brawl between all the main characters. God I miss this.  I had one hilarious asshole of a friend who always played as Boba Fett.  We would all laugh because we have lightsabers, there's no way he stood a chance!  But dammit if we wouldn't be searching the streets of Mos Eisley for each other when he would yell, "DET PACK!!" and then BOOM, you're dead.  May be the first time I ever truly ragequit, which was a big deal with local console multiplayer. For years, I played nothing but this mode, and I always played as either Boba or Jango Fett. Screwing around with people and then jetpacking off to the highest point of the map before they could follow, then mining the area around it so they couldn't jump up there was so much fun.

I'd also play as Chewbacca and just hide somewhere and use my guided missiles to screw with people. Usually it'd be a battle between the two with my friend. Him as bobba, me as chewy... Sometimes the other guy as something else idk we didn't care. 

But I prefered the normal battles. Being a droideka was my favorite shit ever. Boba Fetts blaster rifle (and the unlockable Elite Rifle I believe) was insane! 3 round burst meant you just had to point it at someone, pull the trigger and BAM! I had forgotten about that. I loved playing that map. Biggest concern is the inclusion of offline content - especially instant action. If I can't play as my favourite character's on my favourite maps without having to play with other people then it could be a deal breaker. 

Or at least I won't pay full price for it. Possibly buy it second hand. Exactly this, I killed so much time in instant action since online wasn't a must have for everyone. I still remember lugging my PS2 and CRT TV downstairs so that I could plug it into the dial up and play online. That reminds me of the journey you had to go through to play Halo: CE online.  Those precious minutes spent playing 'local multiplayer' Halo 1 on the OG Xbox through the computer on GameSpy with a 33.6kb connection was an eye-opener! Still worked better than MCC. :( I remember I had to save up $100 for the damn network adapter. And if I remember you had to basically remove the back of the PS2 and put that big baby in.  I always wanted one :'( 

Is the back of it that box-shaped hole with a cover over it? Yes. You remove that cover and put the pretty heavy brick for a network adapter in there. If I remember right.  It was perfect for hiding... Stuff. Haha i did the same i brought my PS2 downstairs so i could play online fun times That's what I had to do for SOCOM haha I have over 200 hours in the game from when I played on PS2, and never once played online. It would piss me off if I couldn't do that. I'm convinced they won't put it in and use the excuse that back then many/most people didn't have online multiplayer capability so large battles with bots were a necessity. Now, since just about everyone plays online there's no reason to do it. 

To me, the biggest part of battlefront were those bot matches. Hell, I didn't have Xbox Live at the time, so to me, that's ALL that game was. I have a feeling this is just going to be a re-skinned BF4 with my favorite part of battlefront removed, and I'm going to be really disappointed. I've waited so long for a sequel, and I'm convinced it's going to be poorly executed because while DICE can make a good Battlefield game, I'm not so convinced they can make a great Battlefront game. 

Maybe I'm just setting myself up for disappointment so I can be pleasantly surprised.  I wouldn't throw the towel in just yet. Bad company 2's onslaught mode isn't so far off from what you are describing. 

I think DICE is very aware of the water they are treading. On one side you are dealing with one of the most beloved and world renowned film rights, mixed with a very old game reboot that has a very spirited following, as well as their entire reputation on the line. 

There has to be some form of sandbox single or coop mode that exists somewhere in between campaign and multiplayer.  I still play not matches on PC, you don't need to exclude them, they are still fun. This is what has me worried. There is nothing like going toe to toe with bots with friends. Online community is normally too toxic for me to usually get an enjoyment out of most online games. 

Though if we used Battlefield as an example...Still miss battle field bot games in BF2.. It's a shame. bf2 bot match as a sniper? So much fun. Instant action is a must. I had to hone my skills and realize the strengths and weaknesses of every class, that addicting game mode was key. [deleted] No talk of Galactic Conquest has me a little scared. Although it's a rumor so limited information that could not be true. The talk of DLC before we know much info on the game is pretty annoying though. Wish publishers would just wait till the game was out before throwing Dlc talk at us.

~~This part made me laugh though~~

~~&gt; Multiplayer -wise, some game modes will feature space-to-land battles. But the biggest change from previous games is whats called the hero system. Think of it as a killstreak-style reward that lets you play as certain hero characters when you reach a certain point threshold.~~

~~That's exactly how it worked in battlefront 2~~

Edit: they changed it. /u/InhailedYeti linked the new paragraph.
 God I want there to be galactic conquest so badly. That was one of my favorite parts of battlefront  ~~&gt; Multiplayer -wise, some game modes will feature space-to-land battles. But the biggest change from previous games is whats called the hero system. Think of it as a killstreak-style reward that lets you play as certain hero characters when you reach a certain point threshold.~~

~~Right? You would choose a hero when you hit a certain amount of score. I'm not understanding how that's any different.~~

Edit: the article doesn't say that:

&gt;Multiplayer -wise, some game modes will feature space-to-land battles. But what differentiates this from Battlefield games is whats called the hero system. Think of it as a killstreak-style reward that lets you play as certain hero characters when you reach a certain point threshold.

~~Maybe the article was edited?~~

Yep, the author edited it to make it more clear. I think, maybe, the author has it confused with previous Battlefield titles (judging from the 64-player battle part), but honestly I'm not even sure about that &gt; Multiplayer -wise, some game modes will feature space-to-land battles. But what differentiates this from Battlefield games is whats called the hero system. Think of it as a killstreak-style reward that lets you play as certain hero characters when you reach a certain point threshold.

The article actually says this. Did /u/whodouthink9999 edit it? or did the article update? &gt; I continue to think of this as a Battlefield game, which is why I wrote this. I've edited it now.

In the article comments after someone points this out. So,we 'll end up with full servers with 32 Luke Skywalkers vs 32 Darth Vaders...
Jar Jar Binks should exist as a punishment. You goesa below a certain score yousa getta tha Jar Jar . It should be the opposite, to prevent people from cheating their scores so high. Sure, he plays like any normal trooper, but *just listen to that dialogue*. If someone is cheating just to annoy the piss out of everyone playing, then playing as Jar Jar is exactly what they'll want to do. Imagine getting t-bagged by Lord Vader. And then you have 3 vaders and 2 Bobas running around... IIRC it was only given to the highest scoring player halfway through the game.  Mos Eisley hero battles tho... I COULD DO THIS WITH TWO

NO

**THREE ARMS TIED BEHIND MY BACK** [deleted] I'm most concerned about no talk of bots. If we're limited to human players only I'll be very disappointed. Wait, what? That would be a deal-breaker to me. That is basically the thing a love about the series.  Considering no Battlefield game has had ai bots for years I wouldn't be surprised. If they're going with the current style of progression unlocks I don't think they will since you could just slaughter easy bots to gain exp. Not to mention they want the focus to be online play. Until I hear more I'm going to assume the game's not going to have Galactic Conquest (unless it's some sort of meta game), ai bots, or local multiplayer. There's no way they take out the AI bots, that is literally what made this a game. Although I guess it is EA and Dice we're talking about here. They might've just seen "STAR WARS" and "shooter" and jumped on it. So this is how I view DLC and game developers today.  They have to talk about it for publishers. It's like when starting a company, your pitch to investors includes things that are 3-5 years out. Investors/publishers want to see those money making plans laid out now, even when you're trying to just get things to work.

I bet if a developer pitches a game to EA now without DLC, the first question they are asked is "are you guys thinking about DLC?"  So they include it in their plans this early. This is pretty much it, like it or not-- publishers, especially with big budget titles, want to see a roadmap like that. Also, people on here seem to miss that DLC is budgeted separately -- if a game has a $40 million budget and then an additional $10 million for DLC (which they, obviously, expect to recoup with sales of said DLC), if there WASN'T any paid DLC planned it is very very unlikely that the original game would somehow get a $50m budget instead.  I would add that if you compare game prices now to say, 2001... the rise in prices haven't even kept up with inflation. Despite this, production budgets keep rising driven by consumer demand for "more everything." Sure, there's times where DLC  plans are complete bullshit, but there's times it's completely justified too.   In all fairness consumer demand  (i.e the number of customers) has risen a fair bit sine 2001 It's not as evil as people think.  While the game is going through certification, the entire staff of programmers and modelers and whatnot are basically sitting there with their thumbs up their asses.  Day one dlc let's the design staff do something useful.  I don't mind day one dlc as long as it's an extra experience and not hiding major plot points like with mass effect 3.  To be fair the developer hasn't said anything about the DLC to us. They really haven't said much of anything about this game to us. [deleted] [deleted] As someone who sucks at shooters, I hate killstreak rewards. Oh you're annihilating the other person? Here have some more help.

This mostly applies to COD, though. If you just get to be other characters, that's harmless. No, this hero system was in the other battlefront games. Yup. Good players get to be Heroes, which makes you want to get the most points to be a Hero. Hopefully that makes you want to complete objectives. Too many times in COD or Battlefield people are just fucking around and trying to get kills, while I get slaughtered trying to get the objective. You say this... but when that other character is Yoda and he's jedi flipping his way through your comrades you may change your tune ha
 &gt;  If you just get to be other characters, that's harmless.

Well, not really. The other characters are really powerful.

I think it's fine though, it worked in BF2. My biggest fear was that the game would focus only on the timeline of the original trilogy, but if the campaign spans all of the six movies, then multiplayer will have maps from the prequels as well. DLC is kind of costly, but it does add a lot of maps and stuff. The prequel maps from BF1-2 were really damn good. Geonosis was huge! Then again, it's not hard to make a big map when the area is desert with the occasional rock outcropping True but hey, vehicle warfare needs space! If my nostalgia serves me right, Geonosis was one of the best planets for vehicle combat. Big maps are the coolest for that sort of thing' Only map with those rolly things too for the separatists. Hailfire tanks! Hell yeah! Droid's, not Tank's I was never any good with those... Probably because the missiles tended to just piss off in whichever direction they pleased! The original Geonosis was. It offered A LOT more open space than Geonosis 2. Enough to have Gunships flying around as well as 2 ATTEs and Geonosian star fighters. 

Geonosis 2 had that giant ass cliff where C would be and it was a snipers heaven.  We better have a Geonosis remake in the game!! That map was epic with the amount of walkers and vehicles on that map In preferred BF1 genonosis BF1 Genonosis  was one of my favorites. Getting up to the top of the spire and sniping felt so good.

Gunships were perfectly balanced on that map too. It doesn't quite say that it spans all of the movies though, just that it'll focus on the original and "feature" parts of the prequel trilogy. Which is a shame because I enjoyed blasting clankers more then those annoying rebels. This game is going to make EA and DICE crazy amount of money. Regardless of how things have been. The hype will be out of control. Pre-orders abound.  Makes you wonder why the hell it took so long. Lucasarts was a mess of a studio  LucasArts never worked on Battlefront.  It was always a licensed game. Yes, but because of the mess that was LucasArts they stopped even allowing licensed games to be produced because there wasn't really anyone available to manage that much. They still published the games though. My point being they were so incompetent that they couldn't even license the IP properly   Depending on what side you choose to believe, LucasArts mishandled their developers and caused Battlefront 3 to be delayed indefinitely  Because Disney just bought the franchise and knows how to monetize things? It's been ~2.5 years since Disney got Star wars the timeline works pretty well. It's been that long already? I feel like that announcement was 3 months ago.  Star Wars 7 is coming out this year. They'll have had enough time to write, produce and edit a major blockbuster by the end of this year.

It's crazy how time flies while you're waiting for things. It really couldn't have been that long...... Has it?  Definitely at least 2 years. It was announced Nov. 2012 that Disney would acquire LucasFilm. January 2013 the deal officially went through. Why is the link to VG247 and not the original source?  Yeah, this thread should've been removed for rule 4. We would've removed it if we caught it earlier, but it's over 1500 points currently, and removing it would cause a lot of problems.

In the future, we'll try harder to catch blogspam like this. Anyone else get a little concerned about that last paragraph regarding aggressive DLC for map packs?  I mean it is Dice, no doubt there will be Battlepacks and premium too. Yeah, shouldn't be a surprise to anyone when it's EA and Dice. They know people will gobble it up when it's Star Wars. 

I would love for it to be like the old games where you'd get a content patch a few months in, as well as mod tools, but why do that when you can sell a shitton of a dlc instead  Cant help but feel that people have rose tinted glasses on when it comes to past Battlefield games.

Battlefield 1942 had two expansions that you had to pay for if you wanted to play them.

Battlefield 2 had an expansion and two booster DLC's.

2142 had an expansion pack.

Bad Company 2 had DLC.

Battlefield 3 and 4 both have premium.

BF 1,2,3 and 4 all cost me 70 each, give or take a few quid when i found a deal here or there over the years.

The point being that the series has always been about buying the base game and then later down the line there being more paid content.

Other than a near industry wide cut back on mod tools the only difference is that instead of having to go to brick and mortar stores you can now download that content.

Indeed if you want to talk about free content then the new EA CEO might be showing signs of returning to that, The Sims 4 had a bunch of free content and currently Dice is converting some of the existing BF4 maps into pretty heavily reworked night versions of the same map. 

Not to mention the much hinted at 6th DLC which is supposedly taking some of the fan favourite maps from previous Battlefield games and not quite porting them over as straight copies but "taking inspiration" from them.

No official word has yet been given on if they plan to charge for it or not, but i would suspect that with EA's new positive PR spin since last year they would not dare make what is effectively an apology DLC cost money. At the very worst i would suspect premium players to get it for free considering that service is all about paying up front for ALL the DLC a title is going to get.

 Bad Company 2 had like 4 map packs under the VIP program, where you got them for free when you bought a new copy of the game
 &gt; Battlefield 2 had an expansion and two booster DLC's.

And Project Reality,  Forgotten Hope 2 and Point of Existence. Ridiculous amount of content made by the community for free, raising the value of the core game to a whole different level.

No such luck in BC/3/4 or whatever EA will be pushing out in the future.

It's a real shame, since it feels like all the very high quality assets go to waste when the only available game type is some variant of fast-paced DM, with little to no communication and completely artificial, point-driven "teamwork". Mods like PR could make use of them to create a completely different kind of experience. I really don't understand why they feel the need to give the modding community so little room. Modding is the best way to prolonge the longetivity of a game. I'm pretty sure that if it wasn't for DayZ, ArmA III wouldn't be even half of what it is right now. &gt;Modding is the best way to prolonge the longetivity of a game.

This is exactly why they won't do it.  You won't buy BF5 if you're still playing BF3 Mods.    I don't think mods would detract from the sales significantly. You can download mods for skyrim that give you new quest lines, environments and NPC's but do you really think that stopped people from buying the games DLC which did the same thing?  The issue is that mods force the devs to make a quality game or dlc.

If the mods do X better, then nobody buys the dlc that does X.

which is why skyrim DLC is pretty successful and mods are still encouraged. Bethesda makes good dlc (typically) That's not really true, and Skyrim is probably the best example. If anything, mods seem to make people more likely to buy DLC because modders often take advantage of DLC content and features when creating their mods.  Given that a lot of Skyrims DLC was buggy and incomplete i do not think it matters that much, there were even fan patches for their DLC to bring them up to snuff.

Plenty of people still went out and bought the house DLC even though PC mods did it first and better. But Bethesda isn't interested in producing a new Elder Scrolls every single year or even every other year. Battlefield and CoD do want people to buy next years game. If mods keep a game alive after you sell the new one then you are splitting your playerbase aka losing money. They licensed out a ton of technologies for Frostbyte, so it's more difficult to provide those technologies in mod tools.  Yeah, that's probably the real reason. Games like ARMA, Skyrim, and Civilization are able to have great modding tools because their engines were designed with modding in mind. If an engine and the tools aren't really designed to be modded, it gets nearly impossible to create modding tools for it (unless it's for very limited parts of the game, like skins or an in-game level editor).  &gt;I really don't understand why they feel the need to give the modding community so little room.

I don't think people realize how difficult it would be to make mod tools for Frostbite. Devs can't just shit those things out.  Some examples:

Good DLC:

"Hey, let's put all of our effort into making an amazing game!  Once it's done, we'll take a break for a bit, then start making more content!"

"Wow, the fans really love our game!  We should make an expansion to add more content and preserve its longevity!"

Bad DLC:

"OK, you make the maps that come with the game, and you make the maps that we'll sell separately a week later"

"I think we can take this map out of the base game and sell it separately" &gt;"I think we can take this map out of the base game and sell it separately"

This didn't happen in BF3 or 4. in 1942 you got maps for free as part of content patches. ( 5 free maps in the classic game). This including one of the best maps coral sea.

[bf1942](http://battlefield.wikia.com/wiki/Battlefield_1942)


Bf2142 dropped 7 free maps in patches.
[bf2142](http://battlefield.wikia.com/wiki/Battlefield_2142)


They still had expansions, but gave you free content. Granted these are the only examples I could find, but they have history... And as i pointed out it might be that EA is returning to that sort of idea with the recent free updates to the likes of the Sims 4 and the currently in progress free maps for BF4 being made by Dice not to mention the 6th DLC that might turn out to be free for everybody.

Not to mention the changes that have been implemented in Origin and the Xbone versions of EA's services.

You can get refunds without any questions asked, you can even try out certain titles for hundreds of hours for free.

Right now there are a ton of new Battlefield 4 players because you can literally play it for 168 hours for free to see if you would actually like to spend money on it.

EA got a lot of shit over the years and deservedly so, but when they do the right thing i think its important to note that too.
 &gt;They know people will gobble it up when it's Star Wars.

They know people will gobble it up regardless of it being Star Wars or Battlefield. Without a doubt it will be treated like Battlefield 4 in regards to DLC and battlepacks and Star Wars: Premium and everything else. As horrific as Evolve is being with its DLC, at least they aren't splitting people with map packs.

This is literally the most damaging practice in DLC to an online community.

I'm a big dark souls fan, and they are splitting the community in DKS2 hard pretty soon. I feel for anyone playing DICE games. The worst part is that after a year or so, most BF servers stop hosting the DLC maps since not everybody owns them, so the most popular servers just run vanilla so that people wont get kicked. 

It's just a lose/lose situation for both people who bought the maps and for those that didn't. I can find a lot of servers that have the DLC maps on them for BF4 at the moment. I said most, not all.

Also BF4 is still relatively new, playing some maps in 3 on the other hand can be challenging.

It's the worst for people who only bought a couple of DLC packs, because you usually get "All DLC"/"No DLC" servers. Finding a populated server for that one DLC you own can be a huge pain in the ass depending on your region.  I haven't played BF3 since BF4 came out but I would imagine it would be difficult to find DLC servers for it.

In my experience though it seems like this happens with a lot of multiplayer games with DLC.  The DLC flavor only last so long. [deleted] EA gets a lot of shit, and rightly so. However, we needed a big company with a lot of industry pull to make this happen. Here's hoping they don't fuck it up. This is why Star Citizen is such an interesting story. If they succeed in releasing even just 80% of what they promised in 2016, huge publishers like EA may very well have to reconsider the way they do business. Though not fool-proof (see Day-Z), it'll prove that studios don't need the monetary backing from large publishers like they used to. What exactly is Star Citizen doing? I know nothing about the game. ...everything. Fully featured space combat and exploration, first person shooting as marines/boarding parties, an online world.

I want it to succeed so bad, but they basically have to build 3 or 4 different games in one. It's a massive feat to pull off. So everything Destiny wasn't? Crowd funding, to the tune of like 80million$, so much hype atm. A ton. I only recently became a backer, but I have been following the game for quite some time. It started as a kickstarter by Christopher Roberts (the guy behind Wing Commander and the Freelancer games) a couple years ago and has raised close to $75 million to date.

The game itself is proposed to be a space sim with a persistent universe similar to MMO's. You are free to do as you want. There are no character classes or skill trees- its all personal skill based. You can be a bounty hunter one second and a miner the next. Want to go exploring? Go purchase the 315p ship and explore to your hearts content. Want to go with your friends in a big ship? Pull your money together and purchase the Carrack, a ship built for exploring that takes 5 people to fully operate, with room for more people to come along for the ride.

Interested in doing the Kessel run in less than 5 parsecs? Purchase the Mustang Omega or the M50 race ships and join the local race circuits. 

Tired of flying? Be a space marine and pick up a rifle. 

Want to just be a bad guy? Then be a pirate. Just be careful of players putting bounties on your head after you rob them of their precious cargo. 

Star Citizen is to be released over time as 6 modules. Once all 6 are released, the game will be considered to be in "Beta." Right now, only 2 modules are currently available- "Hangar" and "Arena Commander." The Hangar module allows you to walk around your hangar and see the ships you currently own (most ships are still being developed so you may not see them) while Arena Commander allows you to fly your ship in a "simulator."  Included in the Arena Commander are racing and deathmatch style dog fighting in both multiplayer and single player options.

I highly encourage anyone to take a look at https://robertsspaceindustries.com/ and watch some of their ship commercials. They will give you a sense of how immerse they are planning to make this game.

Oh and it also runs on CryEngine 3, so be prepared to cry for a variety of reasons.  I hate that I feel like this but I am so stupidly, undeniably hyped for this game. I've tried to meter my expectations but I want it to be good so bad! What if they release some stupid pre-order bull shit like Evolve? What if it's completely broken at launch? What if it just sucks? My heart is telling me no...but my body.... Let's be real.  They could put a piece of crap in a box that played the opening theme when you opened it and people would not only buy it, they'd defend it and pre-order for the booger DLC.

Get ready to pay for this one. They've already said they have a ton of dlc planned, and it's DICE so that should be enough of a warning. Aint no way they aren't going to monetize a star wars game to hell and back To be honest, a new Battlefront game that doesn't have copious amounts of DLC wouid've been more suspicious than one that did. At this point, if they didn't try to monetize a Star Wars game to death, I'd say something was fishy in development. Just because something's predictably shit doesn't make it any less shit. I expect something along the lines of the last 2 BF games.  Lots of issues at launch,  that eventually get ironed out,  making the game be pretty good.  probably 100 bucks for the game and all DLC,  and then 40 for all the upgrades etc.   What do you mean by upgrades being separate from dlc? And if the base price is 70 (gross trend in Canada) and premium is 50, its starts to look like 120$ :( I'm hyped at the idea of a new Battlefront, but I'm not getting excited for this game until I see it in action. Give me galactic conquest with bots while I play as The Republic, epic space battles, and the hero system and I will throw all my money at EA and Dice.  I hope they make it more strategic as well. As much as I absolutely LOVED galactic conquest, there wasn't much strategy involved.  An online Galactic conquest would be pretty cool as well. Something where you can have clans and large groups of players team up and fight opposing teams. Not going to happen, but it would be neat. &gt; Think of it as a killstreak-style reward that lets you play as certain hero characters when you reach a certain point threshold.

So just like the first two SWBF games? Only the second. First one never had playable anything but grunts. you could have NPC heroes run around and fuck shit up, they were near invincible too (unless you fling Darth Vader off of bespin with a good thermal detonator) Once I figured that out, I felt like a god. Or landing aircraft on them. That worked too. i liked flipping him off the side with the wrist rocket Did the first one have CPU controlled heros? Can't remember. Yeah. Which made that feel of 'just being a grunt' that much better. It also had the option of offering the hero to a random player on the team and I hope they keep that feature.  When I LAN party with my friends we always turn that on so that the less experienced players at least get an opportunity to be Luke or whoever once in a while. I just hope they don't ruin the single player modes, onlines nice but I hate how it's the biggest factor in most AAA games lately. 64 player multiplayer, land to space battles, a huge campaign AND Jedi?! I think I might need a new pair of britches A lot of negativity in this thread. I'm actually liking the sound of these rumors. I hope it has a really cool and extensive single-player campaign. I would love to have that as a primer to get used to movement and weapons before jumping into massive multiplayer battles. And having some heroes in there would be cool too. I think it would be sick if you're doing well, to become Yoda or Luke for awhile, and just light saber it up for a bit in the middle of a battle. I think it sounds cool as hell. 

Now yes, I am still quite skeptical. Don't get me wrong there. I know that this is EA and DICE we're talking about, who both don't exactly have the best track record with big launches, but you know what...I'm gonna glass half full this and wait patiently. i am honestly surprised how many people in here were surprised when it said there would be DLC...

What did you expect? they aren't going to follow the same business model that has be working for other publishers because the wanted to hold on to some old standard?

DLC makes them money because you are going to buy it. bottom line. Of course its going to be part of the release plan. Battlefield 3 was awesome. Battlefield 4 would have been awesome if it was finished. Battlefront will be awesome. I've gotten over my anti DLC stuff. Its just the way it is now. That's not going to change. Battlefield 4 is now awesome. DICE has a good track record, but it usually just takes them a bit after launch to iron out the kinks. The hero system is the worst part of the Battlefront franchise. Yes, it's fun to run around as an overpowered superhero, but you can do that in *every* other Star Wars game. The whole point of the Battlefront concept was to finally put you in the boots of the common soldier, just some regular grunt on the front lines. Then Battlefront 2 came out and they should have just renamed it "Race to Yoda". Well you could always change the rules to either score based or kill based. Or even make it a crazy high number that you'd only see near the end of the game.  I think they should also be limited to wide open maps. On maps like hoth or kashyyk, the jedi has to play smart, if they try to charge in they only get a few kills before getting mowed down by like 20 people. But put them in a tight hallway like on mustafar? Ive seen them get like 50+ kills in two minutes. Mustafar is just ridiculous as a jedi. I routinely ended games in under 3 minutes with a jedi hero, just because you're able to get to each command center so quickly, and just mow down any thing that spawns there Well, you could always turn heroes off entirely and hopefully they'll include that option here.  BFII also had the option of assigning the hero to a random member of the team when the point threshold was met which is what we always configured during LAN parties so that everyone had a chance to be one instead of just the best players.  I like the BF1 style of doing heroes- let them be OP NPCs that run around and ruin things, don't let the players be a hero It was so much fun trying to expertly place explosives to kill heroes on the Bespin map And on Kamino, flying up with a jetpack and launching them into the ocean. I rammed Darth Vader int9 the sarlaac pit with a speeder bike. I was sad when he just respawned. I feel like I'm the only one who doesn't have much difficulty killing the heroes. I mean, they're definitely tougher, but if you know what you're doing they are generally only slightly stronger than a good player. Just takes some outmaneuvering and maybe a well-placed grenade. They should have heroes be ARC Troopers or something instead of Jedi.  They're talking about the hero system like its a brand new feature... that's not new it was in battlefront 2, like prominently, assault on mos eisley was all heros So what you're saying is EA has a deadline. It must be released before the Force Awakens. It's going to be a mess. I'm not a business man, but wouldn't it make more sense to release the game a little bit AFTER the movie comes out?

Here's my logic:

* the movie releases
* momentum of hype and excitement grows
* newcomers and veterans get into yet another Star Wars phase
* the game is released when hype is at its all time high
* ??????
* profit But if the movie suck (not saying it will) then the hype would fall off. If they release it before, the hype is the highest I'm really excited that the Old Republic is included in the campaign, and I assume will bleed through to multiplayer as well. There haven't been enough games in that era.

Edit: Awwwwwwwww dammit. I'll stick with my [KOTOR Battlefront 2 mod](http://www.moddb.com/mods/star-wars-battlefront-conversion-pack/downloads) I guess.
 The Old Republic era won't be included. The original source updated: 
&gt;Clarification Update: The source contacted me to let me know they simply meant the prequel era Republic when they said Old Republic. They did not mean the story from 3000 years before A New Hope. They also said online matches are 64 players, 32 on each side. [deleted] I think he probably just means Prequel Movies Republic, Rebellion, New Republic. Not the actual Old Republic, since that's not canon anymore.

Edit: [For anyone who doesn't know, this link explains Star Wars canon now. Only the movies and two shows are canon. ](https://www.yahoo.com/movies/s/lucasfilm-unveils-plans-star-wars-expanded-universe-050000805.html)  That's not entirely true. It's canon and not canon at the same time. The Clone Wars series makes direct references to Old Republic guys, and the continuing existence of SWTOR means that some of it is still canon.

It's not like it matters much anyway, The Old Republic is so far behind the movies that it doesn't even effect anything. I thought the Extended Universe stuff from only post-Episode 6 was made non-canon. I'm not sure they mentioned that at all... not sure where you got that from An 'aggressive' DLC campaign... I guess this was to be expected, I wonder if the DLC will focus primarily on Episode VII?  I just want to take down a Star Destroyer with a team of other players, coordinating who takes out shield generators, etc. I like this idea, acting as a presquel to the Force Awakens. No spoilers for the film and when it comes out (and I can't believe I'm saying this) it might be cool to have the film's campaigns as dlc or an expansion. Everything in this from makingstarwars sounds so much like what I want, it's suspicious. If I made a checklist of things I want this game to be, this would basically be it.

If it's true then I might as well hand them my wallet now but it's so indulgent that I think maybe it's fan-written.

I'm not even against aggressive DLC, I'm for it. AS LONG AS the $60 game sold feels complete and full of content, I have no problem throwing more money at them to get more of what I love! What sort of game is this? FPS arena? Genuinely asking, never played any of the originals Multiplayer shooter with vehicles and different character classes. Kinda like Battlefield but in star wars universe. It will be like battlefield games TY, played one of them for the first time ever a couple of days ago as well, should be even better set in the Star Wars Universe First two games were like Battlefield but in starwars world. They lost me at: An aggressive DLC plan is also in place, with five content packs, each containing at least three maps as well as characters from The Force Awakens.  
  
It might be good only for the SP, but will, if at all, only pick it up stepply discounted... I'm really okay with the drop from 64v64 to 32v32. Designing the maps will be much easier, and the massive clusterfucks you get like in Operation Locker or Metro shouldn't be as bad. Plus the netcode should be much smoother.  Ugh, I hated the Hero system of Battlefront 2. I felt that it cheapened the game when you could be the Jedi instead of the CPU Jedi can be killed. I will run them over with a swoop or snow speeder.  That and I'm fairly certain you could snipe them as a sniper class, since you didn't shoot the regular laser bolts, and they didn't have time to deflect such a shot. Yeah, sniper lasers goes at the speed of light while stormtrooper lasers go slower than a bullet Yeah its just a bit of an extra challenge Or play play multiplayer and everyone chooses heavy and then places tank mines everywhere. It was supposed to be a power trip for the play.  [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] Please follow the subreddit rules. We don't allow low effort or off-topic comments *(jokes, puns, memes, reaction gifs, personal attacks or other types of comments that doesn't add anything relevant to the discussion)* in /r/Games.

You can find the subreddit rules here: http://www.reddit.com/r/Games/wiki/rules#wiki_rules [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] I like how if a game receives no dlc post launch the game "isn't being supported" but if there is even a breath of the word dlc before the game launches then it is heresy. 

I would assume, and idk I've never made a AAA game, but if you had the intention of adding extra content post-launch, you would need to at least discuss and plan out how and what you were going to create for post-launch content. 

It is interesting to see that gamers don't know what they want. No matter what the news is, lately all I see is whining. Dlc? Evil corporate greed. No dlc? Dear are unsupportive of their game. I wish it were a perfect world where every game was like Hyrule Warriors, Mario Kart, and The Elder Scrolls when it came to dlc. But until the game and dlc are released, chill out people. And if it sucks, don't buy it. This is not that hard. 

The whining in reddit threads about dlc isn't going to change corporate practice. Voting with your wallet will.  It's backwards and forwards man. The DLC crowd willbe loving it if it's included with thr "I hate DLC" crowd complaining and vice versa. It's impossible to please everyone.

However I don't have an issue with DLC because it isn't something I have to buy at all. Ever. But if I do at least the option is there. That's how I feel. It's a nice option to have. As long as it doesn't take on disc content and lock it. Otherwise it is a great option and gives the game longevity. And if it sucks? I won't buy it.  Agree completely. Content lock via micro-transaction is a cancer that needs to be stomped out as soon as possible.  If a consumer feels they can buy a game and enjoy and then know they are faced with a choice to expand the game further giving them potentially more playability then I can see lots more people fronting some more money.

However if i pay full price for a game and get greeted with a content lock of "Pay X for this now" it defeats the purpose of buying the game! DLC for all intents and purposes is the content that will release after launch. Assassins Creed, I feel does it quite well. Their Freedom Cry DLC was amazing, and the King Washington story wasn't terrible either. I haven't had much time to play Dead Kings but what I have played is great. To me DLC is content that will be introduced to the game at a later date allowing me to come back and play a game I may have otherwise not touched again. I dislike both how early this is being discussed as well as the general quality of DLCs. I used to like it when you'd buy a game, then months later they might release an expansion pack which would almost double the the content or be like a new game with the same mechanics, or in some cases, even introduce new ones. It was just that- an expansion, and often felt well worth it.

I get the feeling with a lot of games now that without buying the DLC I'm not getting the full game. Nothing should ever be cut from launch, and the game should completely stand on it's own. Any DLC should be released quite a while after initial release and be a legitimate expansion, it should in no way effect the story or gameplay of the original game, but purely expand upon it. Generally speaking, if it adds stuff to the original game, then it should have been a part of it already or released as a free patch.

 Thank you! The hero system sounds neat. If you didn't get to play Wolfenstien: Enemy Territory, you gained XP while playing and could level up your class 3 times. Each level gave your class more abilities, like the Field Ops class could call in strikes with their binoculars at level 3.

Battlefield took a lot of ideas from Enemy Territory. Enemy Territory didn't have massive maps though. It did have player run servers with mods.  Why did this whole chain about bringing back larger battles get deleted? Seems like a moderator is being bad. I hope they make it so that the hero system can be turned off at least in singleplayer. I didn't really enjoy it in Battlefront 2. So they're still talking about land-to-space battles.  Meaning anyone can spawn on the ground, jump in a ship and fly out to space to enjoy a battle up there.  Or perhaps you could spawn in a capital ship, man the gun turrets for a while, then fly down to the battlefield and jump out in the other team's base or something.

Honestly I thought they would drop this, but I'm glad to see it's still in.  We'll probably see a fair bit of hyping about this in the runup to release. This is a hilarious and a sad story at the same time. I think I expected something like this when the cube was opened. Also, a very good article by Eurogamer, props to them. This whole thing is just weirdly depressing to me. It sounds like everyone at 22cans has lost faith in their own project but are kind of forced to keep trying to push it towards completion. Regardless of how liable they are for it, it's still a horribly depressing situation for anyone to be in.

The saddest part to me is the fact that they've dragged some poor kid into it with them, and now they just can't tell him that the project is running out of steam, so they stopped contacting him. &gt;It sounds like everyone at 22cans has lost faith in their own project but are kind of forced to keep trying to push it towards completion. 

That's genuinely it. Did you see their "apology" video? It's basically Molyneux saying someone else is going to fix his game, and that "someone else" is sitting three feet away, doing his best to wordlessly express how ridiculous Godus' development has become. Meanwhile, Molyneux's already talking about the unprecedented experience his next mobile game will be.  Not to mention, the 'someone else' was a backer himself, and then joined 22cans as an intern. I think it's him I feel most sorry for out of this whole mess. Yeah, something tells me if you need to have an intern take over development of your game, something has gone terribly wrong somewhere along the line. and he cant complain game overpromised because it is his job to finish it Sounds like he is instead salvaging what he can and making a bit of a story mode.  The game itself goes nowhere and if you play it as a sandbox game it gives you almost nothing to do and forces you to wait within the games timeline to "expand" once it lets you...and even then you can basically only do one thing.

There is no way to fix it to make a it a decent sandbox game without rewriting the entire gameplay and actually adding content, making it a decent multiplayer game is basically not possible as there is nothing there to play multiples of, the only option left is to make it into a decent story mode game with a start, middle, and an end....and I doubt that will have much length to it at all.

If you want a better sandbox game with a focus on keeping your individual followers alive, play Banished. &gt; There is no way to fix it to make a it a decent sandbox game without rewriting the entire gameplay

They've done that already. The current Godus 2.0 is a reboot, a total rehaul of the original Godus. Those that have played both say the 1.0 is better.

For the record, 1.0 was a desktop game. 2.x scrapped the entire old game, made it a typical mobile game, and put it on desktop. Yes, but the mobile game was to make money, now that they did that they are asking the former-intern-now-developer to make the pc game fun on the cheap. Has anyone ever expected anything different from Molyneux? I'm going to be 31 this year and I can't remember a time in the last 10+ years that that name hasn't been synonymous with the phrase, "Overpromise, underdeliver." Molyneux has been a joke for quite some time.   You know what pisses me off? Molyneux *knows* what his problem is. He's known it for at least ten years:

&gt;I have come to realise that I should not talk about features too early so I am considering not talking about games as early as I do.

http://web.archive.org/web/20070404110938/http://allboards.lionhead.com/showthread.php?t=83152

Guess he didn't consider it too hard. 

Btw, that thread is his "apology" for Fable. The apology where he claims that he didn't actually overhype anything, he just talked about features too early that didn't make the cut.  Molyneux has over hyped every single game he has ever been a part of development. Honestly, as much of a joke he is, I think this is the first time he's come off as straight up malicious with his total lack of self-awareness. I never previously expected a Molyneux game to deliver 100%, but I also wouldn't think he'd take fans who contributed directly to dev and bend them over.  Well having the cash monster that is Microsoft Development Studios behind him managed to cover a lot of prior bullshit.  Now that he has to fund things directly its not surprising that he has been exposed as a fraud. I think what we're seeing is Molyneux when he doesn't have a few investors over him, almost physically so, keeping him in check. My impression is that Molyneux is too much of a dreamer and relies on others to actually perform. Yeah, he worked with large professional game development teams previously and those people pump out something *reasonable* regardless of if it delivered on Molyneux's promises.  I was part of the Microsoft Reserves Test Team for Fable 2. There was a lot of "Lionhead, fix your shit" going around near the end of that project.   I remember following Fable from the beginning on their forums, I had just finished TES:Morrowind and was riding this incredible gaming wave, nothing seemed impossible and then I heard about another fantasy open world master piece in the works.                             
I remember parroting to my wife every word molyneux said and how game changing fable was going to be, the millions of endless armors and weapons promised, how decisions to do one quest over another would change the world around you!                             
I've never been so disappointed in my entire life, I stood outside for the midnight release, I even won a promotional free copy of Crimson Skies at gamestop just for being the umptenth person in line! Then I got home and played the game, 2 days later I beat the game and this wasnt ZOMG I played for 18 hours straight either, I casually chewed through it's meager bullshit. All the armors looked like shit, there was what 4 weapons in 4 different colors?                    
People still get butt hurt when I mention what a colossal piece of shit this game was and is, I was promised a steak dinner and I got a bologna sand which... I still feel burned, like a con artist stole my wallet, got caught and still got to keep it. They promised *so* much more than a steak dinner! They talked about a kind of steak so unearthly delicious that our minds couldn't even grasp the pleasure. Grilled beyond perfection, paired with the finest craft brew and served with a Tiramisu confection lovingly handcrafted by the most skilled Italian baker money could hire.


I figured *some* of that had to be an exaggeration. But then they gave us a Quarter Pounder with cheese. Actually, hold the cheese. It didn't make it out of development. curiosity is the beginning of that.  Fable and the such just underwhelmed.  But curiosity and Godus are both complete kicks in the balls to anyone who got involved. Yeah, I've always quite liked Molyneux and enjoyed some of his games, but this phase of his life is tainting my opinion of him quite a bit, unfortunately.

Having seen him speak at Eurogamer to us in the audience and just other interviews he does, my impression of him always was that he genuinely gets excited and interested about ideas, he is very enthusiastic about the games industry but often fails to properly realise those ideas (obviously). He seems like a really nice guy, he offered out his personal help to everyone in the audience trying to get a job in the games industry (like checking over their CV, etc), stayed and talked to people about it, just offering his time for free.

But the stuff with Godus and Curiosity is caused by the same things that worked against his previous games, but this time people are personally invested in his games, people personally backed and invested in his ideas, he needed to be more careful and thoughtful in his decisions because of that.

It's no longer just money from Microsoft, or EA, etc that he is handling, and in those situations he had lots of other professionals around him to at least get something reasonable out of what he had done, when you go independent and are taking money from your fanbase to do something, that isn't the case and that is what has happened. 

This whole episode has been very disappointing for me, far more than any previous involving Molyneux. Primarily because I felt he yes, over promised, but seemed like a good guy - and I'm not saying he isn't just because of this, people make mistakes - but he has been careless and thoughtless and that's a little hard to forgive of someone who is such a veteran of the industry.
 [Seriously](http://i.imgur.com/RR4OSDY.jpg). I see his name attached to the head of a project, I instantly know it's almost going to be a different, lesser game at release. well, people still threw money at his kickstarter... I'm about the same age as you and I think we're kind of in the sweet spot as far as remembering Dungeon Keeper, but also remembering most everything after it.

A lot of people are like this 18 year old kid in the interview. He had no clue who Peter Molyneux was, and I think because of that he'll still be able to con people who don't know his history.

The kid seems to take it pretty well though. &gt; It sounds like everyone at 22cans has lost faith in their own project 

If I had to guess, I'd wager your average 22cans employee is much like your average Zynga employee: absolutely miserable, working with full knowledge that your company, your products, and your leaders are garbage, but hey, it's a job. I feel like the difference would be that Zynga doesn't have the Molyneux factor. You know that Zynga is about shitware phone games and nothing more. Molyneux is a hype machine. I honestly think he believes his own bullshit. It's just that reality kicks his company in the face every time he opens his mouth.

They know their product is shit, but at least it wanted to be something better. Zynga's products never weren't supposed to be shit. &gt; It sounds like everyone at 22cans has lost faith in their own project but are kind of forced to keep trying to push it towards completion.

If by "everyone" you mean two people, then yes. In the video he says it is two people working on Godus, Konrad and Pavel. And Pavels is working on fixing the mobile version. They've made a post about hiring another mobile developer for Godus. If it is successful it will either be two mobile coders and one designer for Godus, or, which is equally likely, they hire a new coder to get Pavel off the project and onto The Trail. Everyone was calling BS on it when it was going on. Molyneux is a notorious hype machine and this time was no different. This is beyond the pale even for Molyneux, though - he hyped Curiosity for months, promised the prize would be "life changing", and two years after it was won the poor kid hasn't seen penny one from it, and they *won't even guarantee* to ever complete the functionality that has to be put in place in order for Henderson to start claiming his prize.

Instead Godus is being starved of developers in favour of the *next* 22Cans game Molyneux can start baselessly hyping.

This is *way* beyond normal optimistic-Molyneux-overpromises, through "abject bullshit" and well into "outright scam" territory.

The way Molyneux develops games is increasingly starting to look like the way the writers wrote Lost - make a lot of promises, set up a lot of intriguing questions, completely neglect to address or answer them properly, and instead just move on to the next thing as quickly as possible in the hope you can keep outrunning your failures indefinitely and nobody will realise you're just a no-talent hack.

He wrote some amazing games back in the day, but these days Peter Molyneux is little more than the Damon Lindelof of computer games development. &gt; Instead Godus is being starved of developers in favour of the next 22Cans game Molyneux can start baselessly hyping.
&gt; This is way beyond normal optimistic-Molyneux-overpromises, through "abject bullshit" and well into "outright scam" territory.

The problem, I think, is that Molyneux isn't beholden to a publisher this time around.  So his tendency to flit from one "grand idea" to the next isn't being held in check by somebody more grounded in reality.

That's not to say that the project would have turned out any better under a proper publisher, but at least it would have been *finished*. Like Lucas, but instead of the Phantom Menace you got a cartoon tv episode about watto with the promise of developing it into a feature length cartoon. You should check out [the article Game Informer did](http://www.gameinformer.com/b/features/archive/2014/02/12/fall-of-the-empire-how-inner-turmoil-brought-down-a-legendary-studio.aspx) about the fall of LucasArts.  George and Molyneux definitely have a lot in common. My favorite part of this article, 

The team threw a Hail Mary to George, saying the game would have more credibility if the apprentice had a Darth title, a Force Unleashed team member says. Lucas agreed that this situation made sense for Sith royalty, and offered up two Darth titles for the team to choose from. He threw out Darth Icky and Darth Insanius. There was a pregnant pause in the room after that. People waiting for George to say just kidding, but it never comes, and he just moved on to another point. That is absolutely amazing. I genuinely underestimated how bad George Lucas is at his job. I remember the Godus play throughs I watched on YouTube. Always reminded me of an Android pay to win game that somehow made it to giant resolutions.  That's because that's what it is.
It's a mobile game with microtransactions, that manages to be worse than fucking mafia wars because there's no pvp, you have to pay real money to build your island but there's no benefit to it.

What a fucking hack. Coincidentally, that's what Godus is. An Android/iOS pay-to-win game.

What's worse is the desktop version. It costs $14, no micro-transactions, sure. But it still has the classic wait-1-hour-for-this engine that Facebook/mobile games employ. And no means to speed it up. He is a compulsive liar more than a hype machine. He seems to just spew forth anything that he thinks people want to hear, with no care to whether it has any shred of truth to it. Everyone should assume every word coming out of the mans mouth to be false. I don't think he is a liar. More of a guy with big ideas without the means to fulfill them. I used to believe this, but how many times can he do this before we look at him and say that he has to know he can't live up to his promises?  He can't be that stupid. You will become a GOD and get MONEY and it will CHANGE YOUR LIFE!

After all that hes said over the years.. I'm leaning towards "professional bullshitter if not outright liar".  Maybe once upon a time he had truly grand ideas that he was simply unable to achieve - but no more.  Not after this nonsense.  I mean.. The shit he said about Curiosity - its fucking nonsense. No, he's just a straight up liar now.

&gt;"That's pretty poor, isn't it?" Molyneux admits. "He should have a contact here. That's pretty shoddy for us to not keep him posted."

Yeah and earlier in the article it states that the team is down to just a handful.  You, Peter, had direct contact with this guy when the game ended (which was turned into a hype machine near the end).  YOU could have personally made sure that the contact was kept up.  We're talking about one single person, and a person that you guys made a big deal about at that.  For what?  For additional PR?  

Then there's this:

&gt;Crucially, Molyneux cannot guarantee multiplayer will ever see the light of day in Godus.

&gt; "Guaranteeing is a very strong word," he replies when I press him on the matter. 

That sounds eerily Saul Goodman-ish to be brutally honest. 

I've known people like Molyneux, who promise the world to get you to give them the help they need, and then once they've gotten what they need from you (in this case basically free advertising via interviews that happened to be set up BY 22Cans) they throw you into the trash heap.  The guy is a fucking scumbag liar who has built up his career by getting starry eyed young game developers to give their lives to him in return for working for the "legendary Peter Molyneux".  (Notice the part in the article about the guy who was a kickstarter funder for Godus and then became an intern and is now the HEAD OF DEVELOPMENT for Godus? And seems to be very out of his element?) Fuck him. And then:

&gt; "There are so many new technologies we are trying to implement. .."

... yeah, because no-one has ever implemented multiplayer RTS games before...

Outright liar. Some people just turned off their brains when they heard "Populous Remake!". I'd like to think he's burned every bridge there is to burn, but I wouldn't be surprised if all he has to do is say "Dungeon Keeper Remake!" and people will mindlessly shovel money at him again. While we might have expected design goals to not be met due to the usual management and resource issues, it costs them nothing to at least be decent human beings to this young guy.

This moves Molyneux from incompetent to actually quite nasty. He used this shy teenager to further his own goals and did not even have the human decency to buy him a drink (leaving it to an intern to be hospitable), send him an email or recognise that he was affecting this guy's life. Yeah... before I sort of viewed Molyneux as the crazy uncle that you liked.

Now it feels like I've gotten five years older and I realized that the crazy uncle I liked was actually just an _immature jerk_ uncle. Honestly, Fable 1 was what did that for me. The hype surrounding Fable and Project Ego was intentionally misleading at best and bald-faced lies at worst. I remember even the release marketing for Fable showed things that you couldn't do in the game, for example dual wielding weapons. I got into Fable 1 after my friend saw it in stores and bought it.  I loved that game and then started to follow the news and saw what it could have been and liked it less.  I had high hopes for 2 and it delivered in some ways but made no advancements.  Then 3 came out and I picked it up for free with Xbox gold and was pissed it was taking up space on my hard drive after I beat it. I never paid attention to any of Molyneux's hype, I guess I was outside the targeted demo or something. I always drifted to his games when they were in the discount pile and I only had secondhand hype stories to go off of. The saddest part is in these two quotes:

&gt;Don't feel bad for me. It is what it is. They would be complete and utter assholes. They would destroy their reputation. I don't believe they would do that. Lots of people would be pissed off.

&gt; My general thinking of it was, it will happen, but right now I'm waiting. I don't doubt it's going to happen. It must happen because of all of these big reveals and promises.

Expecting Molyneux to deliver on a promise is pretty much the most futile thing I can think of.  Especially since the wording of the contract sounds a LOT like he doesn't have to give the kid a damn thing. Unfortunately, he seems pretty oblivious to the fact that Molyneux's name has pretty much been mud since the early 2000's. I should leave a note in my will that in the event that I die young, I would like Peter Molyneux to come to my funeral to let me down one last time. &gt; There are so many new technologies we are trying to implement.

Like what? Multiplayer? A highscore? A variable that holds the God ID of who is the current "god of gods". I don't see anything "new technology"-y What is he talking about? gems.  They are trying to find new ways to tie every mother fucking thing in the game to gems. At least the kid had his head screwed on right, and even though he wasn't aware of Molyneux's rep he didn't get too excited about it.     

Promising the wrong person the world and not delivering could've ended badly. Imagine if someone in a deep financial hole had won it? They'd be on suicide watch by now.  If he was aware of Molyneux's rep he may have been less excited I think that is what he is insinuating. That knowing that Molyneux is a habitual liar would probably have made him more skeptical. That would have been hilarious, if they met up and Bryan just ripped on him the whole time. I can't help but feel like 22Cans could potentially be in some level of liability for this. Curiousity was to some degree a lottery, including the ability to buy additional "chances" at winning by modifying how effective your taps were. Obviously no one was guaranteed to win despite how much they paid, but people did pay and ultimately *no one* won. 

In fact the way the prize was designed allowed 22Cans to basically engineer a situation where they never had to pay out the prize. Much like the second developer of Towns this guy was promised a small cut of sales, but only long after the shelf-life of the game and its reputation had long since expired.

By pushing back the "God of Gods" feature 22Cans has insured that they get to keep the entirety of the funds from Curiosity, Kickstarter and Early Access, while Bryan is entitled to 1% of the sales starting at an indeterminate time in the distant future, when all the good faith and hype for Godus has already been dead for months now. &gt; I can't help but feel like 22Cans could potentially be in some level of liability for this. 

I am totally with you, but 22cans has absolutely no value. Their only existing product is this shit game that no one plays. No doubt their cash reserves are tiny and I wouldn't be surprised if most of their employees are paid more in equity and "future value" than salary. If you sue a company like this, especially with Molyneux at the helm, he'll just declare bankrupcy, shut down the company, and start up a new one in a few months with a clean sheet and no debt. The plaintiffs in this case would receive next to nothing, and the end result will be nothing but fucking over the employees, whom are not to blame for this fiasco. It's sad, but true. The one ray of sunlight is that Moly probably burnt the last bridge. I doubt he'll be able to scrounge another company if and when this one falls.

It sucks for the devs, but did you read about the new lead? *He wasn't even paid at first*. They'll end up better off without this moron leading them. I just hope Molyneux fades into obscurity soon, and nobody else is hurt by his thoughtless over-promising and idiotic business practices again. They most likely protected the studio as much as possible in the contract so they don't even care I'm sure they have some sort of language like that, but if Bryan could argue they held a lottery (and they kind of did) it could invalidate parts of the contract. If it is found to be a lottery they could get in trouble for essentially delaying the pay out until they had spent the vast majority of the potential prize money.

and even if he couldn't invalidate the contract there are not many places where you can legally run a lottery, take money for entries and not clearly state what the prize is up front; simply saying it is "Life Changing."

Edit: You could also argue that, due to Early Access being in its infancy at the time the prize was announced there was the implication that the game wouldn't be available for mass consumption until it was *ready* for mass consumption; which is to say it was feature complete, with the "God of Gods" feature included. By pushing it onto early access 22Cans changed the rules. [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] That bit about taking him out to the pub and then ignoring him is terrible. People who don't live in a country with a strong 'pub culture' might not get it as much, but that's a massive slap in the face where I'm from. Really says a lot about the people working there.

Good on that intern for making them feel welcome though. Things like that are always awkward, but I bet it was way worse considering it was with a bunch of Molyneux's acolytes. 

He should sue 22Cans for 1% of Godus' total proceeds if they fail to implement the multiplayer component come April. It's what he's owed, and I'd say that'd be a substantial amount of money to help him along after college. Best of luck to him. From what they said in the article it sounds like he only earns 1% of the earnings for the duration of his time as "god of gods" a feature that from what I gather has not been implemented. So it sounds like he isn't even owed back-pay of the game.

If that feature is ever actually put in place I can't imagine he'll get much of anything because of how tainted the games reputation is. Nobody would buy it now.

As an aside, Godus is probably the only game I truly regret buying. I bought it on a Steam sale and about 5 minutes later I saw a reddit post saying "DO NOT BUY!" and laying out the many reasons why. First and only time I tried to get a refund on Steam. I said that the game was misleading with it's advertising and didn't highlight an accurate representation of what it is or where it was going. No luck, especially because it's early access. Lesson learned. Also, they said they need to implement combat so that "god of gods" can be contested.  So, as soon as someone does whatever necessary to dethrone him as god of gods he's done. So in essence he basically just won the right to be the first god of gods.

Wow, that sure is life changing. And then have it instantly taken by some Asian no lifer So, basically, the kid's gonna get like $5 from this. I think it would be amazing if the players banned together to keep him as god of gods for a long time so he was able to make bank and they had to pay him. Maybe but not likely ending to this story... Lovely thought, but people are shits and someone would undoubtedly stab him in the back. Aye but people can also be shits enough that they might prefer to stab 22Cans in the back by supporting the God of Gods instead. &gt; He should sue 22Cans for 1% of Godus' total proceeds

I'm sure the contract he signed had all sorts of language in it that prevents the kid from suing them. Waiving rights is tricky business and prone to being invalid He can still create a PR nightmare for them to the extent that they would be inclined to work out a settlement. Though he doesn't sound much like the litigious type.  If Molyneux cared about PR nightmares, he would have retired from making games a decade ago. Maybe in the US, in the UK we cannot sign away any rights unless it is one the law specifically says is waivable. Crucially, no contract can remove the right to legal action, can't even force a foreign court to be where it is heard. Many US contracts specifically exclude EU countries from arbitration clauses because they know it wouldn't hold up and would weaken the rest of the contract. I know right, to fly this 18-year old kid all the way there and then treat him like that. Those people should be ashamed of themselves.  I feel bad for everyone involved except Molyneux. He made a promise that he couldn't keep like usual and everyone else is left with the bill. This kid gets sent out to see the studio and they probably gathered a bunch of developers who had nothing to do with Curiosity so didn't care about showing him around. This isn't Disney Land or Charlie and the Chocolate Factory, this is a place where people work and aren't paid to entertain sweepstakes winners. They aren't working in the service industry or PR. Some producer probably said "Hey everyone, this kid won Curiosity, let's go to the pub with him" and they had to go take time out from their work day to be nice to this person who is there because of an ill conceived promise from Molyneux. And Molyneux of course doesn't even have time to fulfill his end of the bargain and treat this kid like a human being. I really feel like this Godus fiasco is the nail in Molyneux's credibility as both a designer and a 'face' of the industry. His over-hyping of each instalment in the *Fable* series did harm to his credibility, but this is a problem that has plagued many games (albeit perhaps not to the same degree). But this level of consumer and investor neglect is just crazy. I can't see a way that he can move forward onto a new project without being roundly ridiculed.  Molyneux's all about making promises before the ideas have even been coded. He promised trees that grew as the game progressed in Fable, during coding they discovered that it would take up half the systems memory and was scrapped.  It has to be a nightmare building the game for him, with such lofty expectations set for you to meet, with no mind paid to technical limitations.   [deleted] I don't get why it'd be so hard to make trees grow. Just have it tie to your computers clock or something and make like 10 different models for each of your default trees (a pain in the ass already) and then make them cycle through the models getting progressively larger. Obviously you don't see them grow, but you'll be like "that tree was smaller last time..."  &gt; Obviously you don't see them grow

Something tells me that Molyneux wouldn't stand for that!  He likes to promise everything, find it's impossible then deliver nothing.  I think that if he wants something done, he wants it done right or not at all. You could actually even make the trees grow. Just make the models scale over time (at first it starts as 1/10th of it's regular size, for example, and goes up from there). I am pretty sure there were growing trees in strategy games for 20 years... Fable also had this wonderful system where the game progressed at a rate of years per story section, so all they had to do was make the tree bigger every time you progressed the story. They just didn't want to put in any extra work on polishing that game, it seems like. Molyneux's credibility has been shot for years. What's surprising is that anyone takes him seriously anymore. What a fucking clown. It certainly is the final nail as far as I'm concerned.  I've been following Molyneux since Fable 1 was announced, and I still remember reading the insane promises that he had for that game.  I played Fable 1, and while it wasn't anywhere near what he promised, I let it pass and chalked it up to hardware limitations.  Since then, I've been sort of an apologist for Molyneux--always considering him more of a philosopher than a realistic game designer, but with good intentions and ideas.

But after reading this story, enough is enough with that guy.  In my mind, Molyneux is now poison to anything he touches.  I feel for the people who work under him--those who have to put up with his shit, and those who were probably the only reason the Fables (or any PM game) got released in a working state. I've written off Molyneaux for years despite how many people I know still make excuses for him. As far as I'm concerned his legacy is of failure and no one should give him the time of day let alone money for any project he touches. He lies. Not over promises. Lies. It was one thing when it was just lying about the content of traditional releases. You could only give him money after the game was out and reviews were published. Molyneux took advantage of kickstarter, promised things and didn't deliver. Worse yet he builds up a contest, a contest in which people could spend real money on micro transactions with a prize that will never be delivered. I don't care what he did in the past. I don't care how good his old games are. Molyneux is the worst kind of failure. The delusional kind who thinks he's a big shot that deserves everyone attention and has no interest in improving. I see people here compare him to M. Night Shyamalan. I don't think that's fair. I would compare him far more to Uwe Boll. Hey, don't knock Uwe Boll now. At least he finishes and releases his crappy movies.

 So they've moved a lot of the Godus team onto another project?

[Strange considering they're only ever making one game.]
(http://www.vg247.com/2012/09/30/22-cans-is-only-going-to-make-one-game-molyneux/) I think the read-between-the-lines here is that Godus is cancelled, but the problem is they can't cancel it so they are just going to make sure you forget about it eventually. Good luck to them with that. People might stop thinking about it, but anytime he ever tries to release a new game, especially an early access game, this will get posted all over the place warning people not to buy into it. He's done after this &gt; He's done after this

Molyneux? Heh heh! I've heard that before! Hah. Yes, surely one of these days Molyneux's reputation will get around. He definitely hasn't been doing this for his entire career. They've always said that each "game" is an experiment that makes up a larger singular game. The Trail is just their next experiment. It's a gimmick, yes, but it's not untrue.  So basically the singular "game" is them continually "gaming" us? No, seriously.  Read that article.  They very clearly said that 22cans would only make 1 full game.  I called BS at the time, because it was clearly a stupid thing to say, but they were serious. I did read the article. They're not calling any of their experiments full games. 
&gt;The main game that were working on at the moment  some people at 22 Cans are working on that  some people are working on the Android version of Curiosity, and some people are working on another experiment

They're careful to emphasize *full game*.
It was the author of the Eurogamer article that called The Trail a game. 
 
I know it's dumb. 

*edited for clarity.  &gt; But Im thinking about, how can I make this game relevant, be interesting enough for you to come back?, but to also make it something that feels almost like a hobby.

This explains a lot if he considers it outside the box to make a game relevant and interesting. This is a great article, Mr. Molyneux track record has been terrible over the years, especially this one. This is a very weird situation. Lately?  He always promises the world and delivers a normal game.  People always say that he left normal game development channels but I imagine he just really ran out of people willing to keep giving him money.
 My girlfriend and I were talking about this. We're both huge Fable fans, she started with 2, and I started with 1.

She's not big into games in general, and had no idea who Molyneux was for a long time, she didn't (doesn't) really care either.

I know I'm biased and all, but I think the Fable games are great, even 3, which people seem to not like that much. My personal opinion is that Molyneux kinda 'spoiled' it for people, overhyping it, so when a 'pretty ok, but not world-shattering' game came out, people were disappointed.

He's a great businessman, he knows how to hype, give great pitches etc. But an awful games designer. I think he'd probably do really well in another industry, but games is way too consumer focused for him not to get a ton of flack for under-delivering. The fable games are great if you take them for what they are. The problem is what was promised in those games that never happened. If you never read any of the pre-hype and what the game would do and how it would change the industry, then the game would not be tainted by it.

I personally enjoyed the fable games - but they aren't the same game that was marketed by Peter Molyneux.

Edit: I'mm not sure he would be a great businessman at all. He lies to get what he wants. Hence why he has a lot of trust issues with investors. You can hype a game (or any product) without over selling, and over promising. He used to be a great game designer. Pick up Dungeon Keeper or Populous on GOG some time, they're brilliant games. The question I'm asking myself is if those games were a result of people keeping Molyneux in check during development, which was easier before his ego got wings. The George Lucus effect?  Give him technical limitations, a sane budget and other people having a say over what he does and he produces amazing, long lasting films.

Give him modern CGI, a near unlimited budget and the final say on everything, he produces mediocre work.


 Spot on. Actually I think creators work best under a certain amount of pressure, or limitations even. The creative juices flow best when they need to overcome some roadblock. It really was a great article.  And I do remember reading the original ones about Bryan, so I hope he takes it to heart that not everyone has forgotten about it.  I think this could be another black mark on 22Cans' history.   ~~They're~~ Their history is being printed on black paper at this point.

What blows my mind is that they're already diverting almost all of their resources to *another* game when they haven't even finished their first one. I've never been a big fan of Molyneux and never really played any of his games for more than an hour, but after hearing about this and the shit my friend told me about his playthrough of Fable 3, I'm convinced that I'll never be interested in anything he has done or will do. It's a shame, I've heard nothing but good things about B&amp;W2 and Fable 2, but at this point, fuck it. &gt; What blows my mind is that they're already diverting almost all of their resources to another game when they haven't even finished their first one.

Which is probably the very reason none of his recent games have been successful. Molyneux overhypes its project then as soon as he realizes it's too much work and he won't be able to deliver, instead of soldiering on and trying to at least send out a complete product, he does a quick cash grab then moves on to another project. As of LATE? I believe I heard on the cooptional podcast that the last fucking game where he actually fulfilled his promises was dungeon keeper. He's just a glorified neurotic liar. &gt; the last fucking game where **he actually fulfilled** his promises was dungeon keeper

Bullfrog team, circa 1997:

* **Design**: Jonty Barnes, Dene Carter, Simon Carter, Mark Healey, Peter Molyneux, Alex Peters
* **Project Leader**: Peter Molyneux
* **Lead Programming**: Simon Carter 
* **Lead Artist**: Mark Healey 
* **Programming**: Jonty Barnes, Dene Carter, Alex Peters
* **Support Art**: Paul McLaughlin, Darren Thomas
* **Engine Design**: Martin Bell, Glenn Corpes
* **Navigation System**: Ian Shaw
* **Music**: Russell Shaw
* **Sound**: Russell Shaw
* **Lead Level Design**: Shintaro Kanaoya, Barry Parker
* **Testing Manager**: Andy Robson
* **Associate Producer**: Andrew Nuttall
* **Network Programming**: Mark Lamport, Alex Peters &gt; He's just a glorified neurotic liar.

I just get the feeling that he is an absolutely terrible manager/project leader.  He seems to say what he expects, expects other people to deliver on his promises, and then blame others when his expectations aren't met. He's said this is his actual method before.

But over a few freaking decades, at some point, you gotta realize it isn't working, it's hurting your reputation, and (at this point) is starting to hurt other people too. I'm pretty sure peter is widely considered a joke by the 18-28ish decade of videogame enthusiasts. He just basically lies about a game that he makes out to be some mindblowing experience and then doesn't deliver at all.

If I was looking at kickstarters and peter m's name was on it it'd be a mark against it. Yeah... I vaguely remember him talking about how the AI in fabel two made you believe that the people were real. I think I recall him saying in some sort of interview that in his own playthrough he decided to kill someone and he cried because the AI was just that lifelike that he felt really awful about it. Then you play the game... And not only is the AI not dynamic, but it's noticeably kind of worse than what you'd expect for an RPG at the time. I sometimes wonder if he was really the man behind the successful games his name is attached to.

It seems strange that someone who is hailed as a genius hasn't been able to deliver any decent game for years, was there an exceptional team behind him back then which was able to make into reality his vision ? Was there someone else leading the project from the shadows ?  My guess is that he used to have producers that kept him in hand. The he started getting the "rock star" reputation and it went to his already-bloated head. not really, I read in another thread recently that he promised actions in the dungeon would affect the overworld, and heroes would come in through your dungeon entrance (like the opening cinematic), but that latter part was removed because it just didn't work - players just covered it in traps. [deleted] "It doesn't make me concerned about being God of Gods or anything. He does deliver on something happening, but just not as good as he says. He does that thing a lot."

Hah, even someone that had never heard of Peter Molyneux figured out his gimmick. Seriously, I could live with the fact that his games aren't even 50% of what he promises but the fact that he doesn't even finish his own game, which his fans have paid for and additionally can't even give a competition winner his prize just seals the deal. Peter you might have made some good games 20 years ago but it's about fucking time people accept that you are nothing but a waste of time and money. I bet that's why he had to be crowdfunded, no company trusts him anymore. &gt;Hah, even someone that had never heard of Peter Molyneux figured out his gimmick.

He hadn't heard of Molyneux 2 years ago. Definitely enough time to do a bit of research, especially when thing started to go south. At this point, Peter Molyneux is the video game analog of M night shyamalan. The fact that anyone listens to his promises or buys his products anymore astounds me.  I think that's unfair to Shyamalan, to be honest.  He just makes crappy movies.  

Not only does Peter make crap games, he sells the games with lies, plain and simple.  And now he's lied to some kid, and to a whole lot of people, who paid money to break up that stupid Curiosity cube under the pretense of some small chance at a tangible reward.

This is what's called a scam; let's call it what it is.  You can't sell lottery tickets and then not pay out the lottery winner.

M. Night was a creative person who lost his way as a filmmaker.  Peter was a creative person who lost his way as a human being. [deleted] [deleted] Molyneux absolutely makes my skin crawl. The bullshit spewing forth from this guy's mouth is endless. He's the very definition of a con-man; a pure snake oil salesman. He knows very well that this feature will never launch. Yet when asked what his plan is for Bryan if *God of Gods* never happens: "I haven't thought it through because it's never been a feature that has been on the kill list." So you're trying to tell me, Peter, that when you moved 90% of the staff off of Godus, and promoted your intern to Lead Game Designer for the product (not a joke), that you didn't stop to consider that the grand prize winner from your last "life changing" game may never receive his prize? You haven't realized that a staff of 4 with little direction probably isn't enough to make this very ambitious feature happen?

And why the fuck was a "server transition" such a "development nightmare?" How does that even happen? I've worked in tech for 15 years and never in my life have I heard of server changes causing this degree of problems. It's just more bullshit and excuses from the master himself. https://twitter.com/petermolydeux Haha, this is great. 

&gt;Imagine a huge open world where the ENTIRE population copies each and every one of your actions. Can you find love in such a world? [deleted] Well at least it didn't cost him anything. He hasn't really lost out. 

But Linux backers? Paid for early access to the game only to be told it would come to linux much later, now to be told the engine isn't linux compatible. They are the ones who are out of pocket people who played curiosity DID pay.  there were all kinds of upgrades you could buy.  Not to mention time wasted doing it.

Besides, when you "win" something - it is a REAL shitty qualifier to later say, "Oh, guess they screwed you over.  Good thing you didn't pay to win though".  Whether he spent 0, 5, 50, or 500 - it doesn't change the fact they screwed him over. [deleted] I've always sort of passively disliked Molyneux for this bullshit but this is the first time that I actively hate him. Molyneux himself could tell me that I'm going to inherit his estate, and I wouldn't start making any financial plans. I would.

I'd expect he'd found a way to leave me the estate's expenses without its revenues. What's weird about this is that Godus was funded through kickstarter.  The point of creating a Kickstarter was to get enough money to finish the development of the game as outlined here: 

&gt;We need 450,000 to do this. Yes, games typically cost more than that to make, but were sticking to a small, highly effective team and well be employing careful management to keep the project on track and get the most out of our funding.

I know things happen and budgets are overshot, but if you're going to put something like this prize on the table with it, it seems like you should be obligated to supply it with sales of the game beyond the kickstarter.  I also don't see why the development of a mobile game has taken that long if was playable in some fashion 18 months ago.  I've seen mobile game development (although for a less complex game) from start to finish in three months.  This long for a company headed by a seasoned veteran seems like there are some issues beyond what developers would normally face. Well being a god in a video game is one thing. But getting cut from all the sales?

That should be written down and signed by both parties. It obviously wasn't, but I'm curious if Cans would even go for it. By the sound of it, the agreement was that Bryan would only start receiving 'royalties' when he became the 'God of Gods' which hasn't happened yet and, as the contract did not specify a time limit for this, could potentially never happen. Without a time limit, 22Cans cannot be found guilty of breaching the contract.  Also, if you caught it, the winning announcement told him he'd get royalties for the length of his tenure as "god of gods" and later molyneux implies that people will fight for that position. So if he doesn't actively play the game, it seems like he'd be knocked out quickly.  I think it was originally gonna be that there would be one god for a certain period of time and then it would transition to a competitive position but I might just be remembering incorrectly. &gt;  for a certain period of time

Probably a month. Bryan would get a life-changing paycheck of $2000 for his troubles 1% of revenue for one month = $2000? Godus having an income of $200,000 seems optimistic to me, even over a year 2k?  HAH.  That would insinuate that the game brought in $200,000 during his "tenure" (as it says he gets 1%).

This kid will be lucky to see $50.   Actually if you read a comment further down Peter said the one percent has been accruing in an account and will be given to him in the future. Anyone wanna start taking bets on if it's another lie or not? I think Peter Molyneux tells people what they want to hear rather than the truth, 1% 'royalties' included. In this interview with Molyneux from 6 months ago:

http://www.pocketgamer.co.uk/r/iPad/Godus/feature.asp?c=61069

"He's not up to anything, other than he makes a portion of every pound we make. He accrues all that money - we're not paying him yet, but he's accruing it."

"We'll for an 18 year old kid who was sitting at home and wondering what to do next, to featuring in a Wired magazine, on the BBC, in his local newspaper, **and accuring thousands of pounds in his bank account**, and controlling the moral direction of an entire game, that sounds pretty life changing to me."

So according to Molyneux himself Bryan should be receiving something even without multiplayer. Or maybe this is another of his lies. It is all lies.  The company is practically bankrupt.   They were giving 1% away though. And it's unclear how long his god of God's title may have lasted. 

For all we know after a month of the game being online, he would have lost the title. The 1% cut, and potentially it wouldn't have been passed onto anyone else.

In saying that the first month probably would likely have been the most financially lucrative period anyway. It sounds like others could challenge him for the title?  Never played the game so I don't know how it works, but I'm guessing there is a chance he could lose to the first challenger and be out the 1% almost immediately.  I mean, whatever, it's an interesting idea for a prize, but too bad it sounds like the pretty much used this kid for marketing purposes. Judging from what Molyneux is saying in the article, anyone can be the God of Gods, but you first must overthrow the current God. We are too kind with Molyneux and the like. Outside gaming, they would be sued to no end, their reputation slandered and smashed to smithereens. 

How came we are such idiots that the guy can create hype (Curiosity) while creating hype (the Godus advert) for a game that will probably never be finished and certainly won't deliver half what was promised? We know him, he's fooled us more than once in the past, so how come he's still in the business? We ought to call him out on this blatant bullshit. This is not what I want gaming to become. &gt; Outside gaming, they would be sued to no end, their reputation slandered and smashed to smithereens.
&gt; 

Because there likely won't be any money left by the time you get to court. Indie gaming just doesn't have the sort of monetary stockpiles that are worth suing over. &gt;And yet, Bryan believes more in hope than in expectation that he will one day be a digital God, that he will one day rule Godus.
"Don't feel bad for me. It is what it is. They would be complete and utter assholes. They would destroy their reputation. I don't believe they would do that. Lots of people would be pissed off."

Kid, I got bad news for you. This is what Molyneux does. He promises the moon, delivers a piece of concrete he found on the side of the road, tosses the rest in the garbage and two years later does it all again because twenty five years ago the guy made Populus and we've all been giving him the benefit of the doubt ever since for some reason that defies explanation. This doesn't really surprise me, Molyneux  has been over-hyping his work for years. I still remember him boasting about fable when it was released, he said something along the lines of, it'll be the best game ever. This just looks like another case of Molyneux's expectations exceeding reality. I'm pretty sure he has literally said that about every game he has worked on. It should be damn obvious by now he hypes up his games way too much. Anyone who falls for it I can't really feel sorry for. I seriously hate Molyneux.

He has gone from over hyping to over promising to flat out conning people.  

He got over 500,000 pounds for Godus and used that money to focus on developing a mobile game that is primarily driven by the purchase of gems.  Gems are so crucial to the game, that for the PC version he had to find some way to make it possible to earn gems because the game is straight up broken without them.

He tied sacrifices to gems.... sacrifices lower population.  Population takes over 15 minutes to come back (on grass houses).  Gems can be used to purchase faith.  Faith can also be earned by waiting 15-45 minutes.  See a pattern here?

You can either wait around all the time, or you can purchase gems to get past it.

Since when did the farmville model become an acceptable outlet from kickstarter?  Would his game have actually funded had he sold it is a mobile pay-to-play model?  No.

Would anyone have played Curiosity if they knew the "life changing event" was the ability to be ignored by Peter, invited to the dev studios to be ignored there, and ultimately to have a prize that they have no commitment to fulfill?

Fuck Peter in his pretentious asshole.

I hope the industry and the people in it have seen enough of this man's bullshit to realize tht there is nothing of any value left in him.

I have to assume that some genius worked at Bullfrog and was able to take Peter's thoughts and turn them into playable, fun, cohesive games.  Because there is a direct correlation with how unplayable and bad a game is and how much involvement Peter has.

Give real developer's his ideas, and maybe you have something.  Allow him to develop it, and you end up with a product that lives so far up his own ass that he can't tell which end to shit from which to talk from, which is why he is always spewing shit from his mouth these days. I'd say being strung along with the promise of great wealth for years at a very formative point in your life is pretty life-changing, in a bad way. I don't know, the great disappointment can happen at 18 with no real actual negative impact (other than emotional of course) is pretty good for a measured outlook. He seems to have already been a healthy skeptic prior to this. If this solidifies that outlook, he'll not be fooled like this again, and he'll be happier for it. [deleted] Please stop buying this mans' games. He is a proven hack who uses publicity stunts over and over to hawk his increasingly worse titles. I swear to God, Molyneux has to be the biggest fraud in the video games industry of this century. I can't wait to see him present us a new project. *"I have lunch with Bryan Henderson in The Southern pub on Edinburgh's South Clerk Street. He cuts a thin, gangly figure, dressed in unremarkable smart casual garb. There's nothing outlandish or particularly noticeable here. The January air is cutting, and Bryan should have wrapped up warmer, I think. He travelled by bus from his home on the other side of the city, near the airport. I suspect it took a while.*

*Bryan speaks slowly and in a soft Edinburgh accent. At first he lacks confidence, but as we get to know each other he soon warms up. Bryan reminds me of a young Andy Murray, if Andy Murray had studied computer art and design instead of tennis; so laid back I wonder what, if anything, might jolt him into excitement."*

Is writing like this necessary or is it just me?  How does this convey anything that matters?  I'm sure Mr. Henderson is a upstanding dude but I didn't plan on seeing him in this Jane Eyre novel.  It's not necessary but what they're trying to do is humanize the guy as much as possible, because the impact of the story hinges on how bad you feel for this guy who's been getting jerked around for two years.

It's a bit overwrought, but that's the theory. I have a friend who used to write in a gaming magazine in Turkey. He once told me that there are lots of ambitious journalism majors who become gaming journalists because they can't find work in more "serious" fields.. So they write game reviews like they are political pieces. I agree that it sticks out. Is it necessary? Not sure really. The entire article could have been shortened a lot and some of its flowery language removed. It still conveyed the facts, but in a different way.

The writer apparently wanted to humanize the situation. Gave the entire article a downtrodden feel if you know what I mean, like a sense of pity for Bryan. It has an emotional angle for something that's relatively not emotional (18 year old promised "life altering experience". Was not provided experience).

 &gt; I'm sure Mr. Henderson is a upstanding dude but I didn't plan on seeing him in this Jane Eyre novel.

Yeah, I much prefer all my news articles to be bulleted lists of important points. &gt;Is writing like this necessary or is it just me? How does this convey anything that matters? I'm sure Mr. Henderson is a upstanding dude but I didn't plan on seeing him in this Jane Eyre novel. 

I've seen this kind of style from journalists of other fields too, I thought it's just something they do. There's probably some class in Journalism School were they teach how this stuff affects the reader's subconscious and makes them want to click on advertisements more, or something. As someone who's been through journalism school... unless you're writing a deep character piece there is no need for this in a current events feature. It's simply a misguided attempt by the writer to make the story seem worth more than it is. &gt; Bryan speaks slowly and in a soft Edinburgh accent. At first he lacks confidence, but as we get to know each other he soon warms up. Bryan reminds me of a young Andy Murray, if Andy Murray had studied computer art and design instead of tennis; so laid back I wonder what, if anything, might jolt him into excitement.

What kind of shitty purple prose is this? "It was a dark and stormy night at the pub. This Bryan kid seemed normal enough, kind of quiet, especially considering the fact that he spells his name with a 'y'. He nodded a thanks as I offered him a smoke, lighting with a his zippo that had a sticker of Pacman on it. Definitely a Bryan with a 'y'." 

Etc. *Of all the pubs in all the world, why'd the kid have to walk into mine?*

*...*

*Oh yeah, I invited him here for an interview.* Seems like he's trying really hard not to say that Bryan is dull as dishwater. The real twist here is that Bryan is so dull it caused Molybeaux not to follow through with God of Gods.  While I can't completely agree with this comment, because Peter is still the God of Gods when it comes to over-promising and under-delivering, I can still appreciate the sentiment of it.

This kid did not react *at all* how he was probably expected to. Someone who wins such a cool prize or opportunity should be super hyped and cause a lot of positive PR, but he came in with such a dull attitude and low sense of urgency (which was ultimately justified) that he likely killed the morale of the dev team when they saw how much he *didn't* enjoy their game. It was probably a huge eye-opener to them about how shitty the game was.

Not to say that any of this is Bryan's fault though; Obviously, it was just a boring and forgettable game doomed to fail. It also, unfortunately, got paired with a boring and forgettable grand-prize winner. Feels like I'm reading an in-flight magazine interview. That's a flavor of Gonzo Journalism which I really enjoy I don't understand how Godus needed a kickstarter campaign if there was a publisher. Isn't the point of Kickstarter to fund games independently?  Seems like some publisher/dev studios use kickstarters to fund their projects not so much because they can't, but maybe because they would rather shift that risk onto the consumer.  You didn't even get to the part where they promised a pc game and then released a monetized pay-to-play mobile game.  Why the fuck did THAT need to be kickstarted?  It didn't.  Molyneux just realized gamers are a shit ton easier to get money from than investors. &gt; I have lunch with Bryan Henderson in The Southern pub on Edinburgh's South Clerk Street. He cuts a thin, gangly figure, dressed in unremarkable smart casual garb. There's nothing outlandish or particularly noticeable here. The January air is cutting, and Bryan should have wrapped up warmer, I think. He travelled by bus from his home on the other side of the city, near the airport. I suspect it took a while.

&gt; Bryan speaks slowly and in a soft Edinburgh accent. At first he lacks confidence, but as we get to know each other he soon warms up. Bryan reminds me of a young Andy Murray, if Andy Murray had studied computer art and design instead of tennis; so laid back I wonder what, if anything, might jolt him into excitement.

This kind of wanky, cliched writing is what turned me off of games magazines a good ten years ago. If it's not over-wrought sarcasm, it's games writers with delusions of profundity. Jesus christ, Eurogamer. Yup, I can't stand to read that stuff. A current events feature does not deserve two paragraphs of intimate character study. A lot of people here and elsewhere are saying that this is typical Molyneux and what did backers/this guy expect. I think that's the wrong attitude to take and I think the failures of 22cans (see the recent RPS/Eurogamer coverage) vastly exceeds anything Molyneux has done or failed to do before.

You may have hated Fable, but at least Fable arrived in a complete state. It was a finished game you could pick up and play once you bought it. Godus right now is the scaffolding of a game with almost no prospect of finishing it or delivering the bare minimum promised to backers. Even the unconnected physical rewards are reportedly 'missing.' 

I was of the opinion that Molyneux was a blunderer living off a reputation he'd pretty much exhausted. That makes for bad games, but it doesn't make for the catastrophe of his recent ventures. This is incomparable with the disappointment you felt with B&amp;W, Fable 1/2/3 or even Curiosity; it's slimy and ugly and if it isn't illegal it should be. Don't excuse this by saying it's typical Molyneux behavior, that he's always been like this: this should be outrageous and in the case of any other developer it would be.  Wow, I was [referring to this](https://www.reddit.com/r/Games/comments/2vbnn8/oh_godus_what_the_hells_going_on/cogbhae) in one of the past Godus threads this week.

At the time, it had quite some potential, but looking at it now, I'm kinda miffed at how it barely came to fruition. Given that Godus is apparently far from being finished in addition to lacking the proper funding for a larger dev team, could 22cans working on this new game 'The Trail' (which is presumably funded via investments and sales from Godus on various platforms) provide Kickstarter backers or some other entity the legal grounds for some kind of lawsuit? 

I understand that Kickstarter is not legally binding insofar as delivering the product promised is concerned, but it seems like this is an instance of grossly mismanaged funds if the game the company set out to make is effectively on the back-burner for a project funded via profits from the game they're supposed to be making.

I feel like it echoes the business with Sega/Gearbox and the development of Aliens: Colonial Marines (and Gearbox's mismanagement/disingenuous use of funding). Obviously in this instance the Kickstarter backers are not technically investors in the same manner as Sega was, but it's arguably the same scenario. [deleted] Peter Molyneux failed to deliver on a promise? ***What a surprise.*** I think the lesson here is that we need to stop listening to Molyneux. He's done. It's over.

Also, that was three fucking years ago? Holy shit. What can you expect from Molyneux? Guy has a history of under-delivering, almost to the point that his promises are worthless. I don't get why comments about him are still so nice. Molyneux doesn't have "a history of under-delivering". He hasn't had "a terrible track record lately". He's a scammer. He is purely hurting the gaming scene and must be made irrelevant as soon as possible. All of the cube stuff aside, this is why early access is killing some games. BY the time they get enough features in this for anyone to care it's going to be old news. He would have been way better off getting an investor for the dev cycle and then releasing the game finished and with fresh branding. No one is going to care about Godus in 6 months or a year when combat and multiplayer gets implemented. &gt; All of the cube stuff aside, this is why early access is killing some games.

I don't think that's accurate. Godus was headed down a bad road with or without early access. There are plenty of games who do early access well; Don't Starve, Prison Architect, Invisible Inc, Sunless Sea, etc. You do have a point, it really depends on the game and the dev cycle.

Funny you mentoin Don't Stave though. Thisis more personal but after I played about 20 hours of the game I loved it, but then I moved onto other games and no matter how many updates they release I just can't bring myself to go back to the game. Once I'm done with it I'm done for good generally.

 Maybe Early Access just isn't for you. I still pick up most of the early-access games I've bought (Dwarf Fortress, Minecraft, RimWorld, Prison Architect, Terraria...) about once every six months, just to see what's new. Yeah I came to that conclusion after my experience with Don't Starve. I've pretty much avoided early access since then. No one cares now. I backed the game and I've played through so many unfulfilling resets that I just dont care anymore. The second this ass clown decided to make godus a mobile platform game with pay-to-play gems as a major feature is when this game shit the bed.  No dev cycle could have saved it from that decsion.

When the early access folks AND the backers all complained, this fucker double down and told them THEY were playing it wrong.

I played Godus and actually had Peter in my fucking ear as some sort of commentary telling me that if I'm doing THIS then I'm playing like him, but if I'm doing THAT then I am playing wrong.

So he made a game that only he can play, and everyone else is doing it wrong.  Got a complaint?  Your playing it wrong.  Stuck?  Your doing it wrong?  Not having fun?  Your doing it wrong. [deleted] Ok this is the last straw for me, I'm just sick of Peter Molyneux at this point.  How many times will this guy promise us the moon and deliver a rock (late) before we finally ignore him? Im seeing the gist of it. The point would be for people to compete to be god of gods, and whoever is god of god gets money. This is performance art, not video game design. Peter is exactly tlike that guy who hid money in the park to watch people destroy it. He just wants to dangle financial incentivization in front of people, watch them go nuts, then call it social commentary. 
 Peter Molyneux's legacy is one of over-promising and under-delivering. If he's a god of anything, it's disappointment. I loved the first Fable game, but even that came up short. You don't really guide the hero through his whole life, like we'd all been told. And with each game he's created, it's only gotten worse.  &gt;"It's just on a list. The trouble is, it's very easy to forget about things that are further down the list when you're so busy with things at the top of the list. I think it's unfair on him. We should keep him posted. I will speak to him myself."

I get that. game development is a huge undertaking with a lot of things to juggle.

But this is the guy you wanted to make a virtual god. This is the big event you based your whole game around. You wanted to change his entire life and you just "forget about it"? 

I know developers who keep people posted that just dropped a single comment somewhere on the forums or on reddit, they try to keep everyone involved. It's a lot of work but they do it.

And you can't even keep in contact with the very person you wanted to make into a god. That's quite disgusting.  https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=KezvwARhBIc

Stupid, stupid, stupid! Molyneux is a hack. What else is new? Peter Molyneux doesn't deliver on his promises? 

You don't say!? My advice to Bryan Henderson?

Go cash in 22 aluminum cans for recycling. That'll net you more money than Godus ever will. Why do people put any faith in Molyneux anymore? He's like a music artist that had a couple hits back in the day and just struggles desperately hard now to emulate his old success.

If he were just another game developer, that would be fine, but for some reason gamers elevate him as a developer personality as if he has any merit anymore. Well, he is squandering the hell out of that.

But it is basically the same reason why everyone (myself included) jizzed their pants when we heard Bungie were making a new FPS (heh), Epic were making a new UT (sort of), and Larian were finally making an RPG and not an ARPG (WOOO HOOOO MOTHER FUCKERS!!!!). Because those are proven developers who clearly knew their shit at one time or another.

The problem, of course, being that many of them, molyneux in particular, knew their shit as of the 90s and early 00s. And games have changed a lot since then.

I forget who said it (I want to say TotalBiscuit?), but there is a great video on why Shovel Knight did so well: Yes, it is visually a classic "16-bit" game, but it incorporates lessons and game design principles from the past 20 years of modern gaming. That gameplay would fit in with photo-realistic 3D graphics, and nobody would bat an eye.

Whereas you then have people getting exposed to games like Deus Ex (the original) for the first time: Yes, that is one of the greatest games ever made, but it doesn't age well. The interface is clunky, the "branching paths" are simplistic (by today's standards), and it commits the, now cardinal, sin of having what ending you get solely a function of which button you press during the final level. People who go back to it will understand that it WAS a good game, but you are better off directing them to a more modern take on it, a game that has learned from it and made things better.

Or just watch some of The Game Grumps playthroughs of NES games. It is clear they love them, and the games are great, but Danny and Arin also comment on how they got away with a LOT of bullshit because of the time. That isn't to say there aren't things to be learned, but there are also lessons that shouldn't be forgotten. &gt; the "branching paths" are simplistic

Sorry, this is *totally* off topic, but I have to completely disagree with this. I have yet to play another FPS that has the complexity of Deus Ex's level design. That game has so many intertwining paths, varied solutions, and secrets to uncover. I did not get the same feeling playing Human Revolution. That was a reference to the plot paths not the level solutions. The only determinant of the endings is literally which button you push.

Contrast with (say) Fallout, where your incremental changes throughout the game (and not just the last five minutes) alter the ending itself in some way. Yeah, the "branching" plot was pretty straightforward (though still kind of cool I think). I thought you meant the levels since you mentioned the ending separately. Level design-wise, Deus Ex is pretty good, most of the time. Usually several ways to complete an objective that range from 'brutal gunplay' to 'ghosted everything'.

It's a style that has been brought forward for a reason: It's fun. &gt;it commits the, now cardinal, sin of having what ending you get solely a function of which button you press during the final level

And somehow 11 years later they still hadn't learned their lesson. Yup. Which is exactly my point. A lot of shit doesn't fly anymore.

When Deus Ex came out, that was the most amazing thing EVER. Now? It is laughably "simple" and people complain it makes the whole game feel meaningless. "16-bit"?? /rage  
  
You mean 8-bit! &gt; u are better off directing them to a more modern take on it, a game that has learned from it and made things better.

A game that has the exact same "button" endings and has a heavy focus on stealth instead of favouring all play-styles equally, some improvements... Peter Molyneux's entire career has been a joke post-fable 1. 

The God of false promises fails to deliver on a promise of becoming a God.  Even Black &amp; White was full of lies.  I got over PM after B&amp;W &amp; B&amp;W2 burned me.  Fool me once... &gt;  B&amp;W &amp; B&amp;W2 burned me. Fool me once...

You got fooled twice. So, I guess it's shame on you? It was.

Now I just stay away from PM and his BS. Aw I was hoping someone would say what I said was clever. 

I just want to be sort of clever. 

:( I'm just trying to decipher if Molyneux is a twat on purpose, or because he's welll-meaning but absent-minded or something. For instance, all the apologies he always does after his screw-ups, are they sincere, or are they calculated, does he every time know from the very start that he'll apologise later after marketing has done its job? At first (like, Black &amp; White 1 first) I figured he's just the type to get carried away and forgets to plant his feet on the ground. By now, I'm seriously thinking maybe he's actually a scammer who very well knows what he's doing. Of course, it's not like I actually know him, just entertaining myself with speculation. That video of the 22cans guys is so awkward. The lead developer, Konrad is clearly uncomfortable with the stuff Molyneux is saying.  Probably one of my favorite features on the xbox one. Its not something you'd think you'd need but its definitely one of those things you appreciate a system having.  Yeah when you fire up a game after being away a few days and it's exactly where you left it, it still surprises me every time.  Well there goes every "But I'm not at a save point!" excuse. To be fair, if there's any sort of power fluctuation or outage, you're screwed if you didn't save. I usually use it for games like GTA that still take forever to load up. I still save before leaving, but it just cuts the load time from ~90 seconds to instant. Such resume functions normally don't work if you yank the power, they require a graceful shutdown to properly save system state. I don't have an xbox though, this is just a general rule for this kind of feature.  It's basically the difference between sleep and hibernate. Sleep is way faster because it keeps everything in the RAM so as soon as you turn the computer on you are good to go. Hibernate writes to the hard disk, this takes time to both shut down and then to boot back up as it has to load everything back into RAM.

Sleep really is amazing as its near instant on, I really wouldn't care much about hibernate on a console as it will take almost just as long to reload as it would to start the game up from total power off.  Or you just get a ssd and never wait long for boot up again. What's booting up? Is that the time when my monitors are still turning on? you know how the windows 7 logo starts out as 4 balls and then morphs into the windows logo and pulses with light? yeah, my 4 balls don't even come close to forming the windows logo before it loads into windows. I'm more impressed at your 4 balls than anything. *oh look at me with my fancy SSD and my 2 second boot time* You would not even even that with Windows 8.1.

EDIT: Supposed to be 'even see', I like this though. It makes me chuckle. Man. I can't wait to build a new computer. T-T Which does the xbox use? My assumption was hibernate as people were talking about power outages which renders sleep useless unless it has a battery (like a laptop would). You'd need to keep it plugged in for that which makes the feature a lot less useful as you couldn't rely on it for day-to-day gaming in lieu of normal save games.  &gt; Which does the xbox use?

Sleep. It uses about 15W when "off" if you check the instant-on option in the settings. Plus you can just say 'Xbox on' to wake it up. &gt; Plus you can just say 'Xbox on' to wake it up.

I'm so glad that the March update will allow kinect to detect when the camera is moving so that I can shake my kinect and it'll wake the XBOX^^^^Justlikemychildren! I always wondered what the hell Hibernate was for. Seemed like I may as well just shut it down if it will take a long time to start up anyway.  Sleep - loads things in RAM. 

Hibernate - loads things in a hibernate file on the hard drive (resumes exactly as it was before) 

when Hibernate is used, the RAM is shut off so it saves more power. However, unlike a shutdown which closes everything, hibernation lets you resume where you left off. :) Hibernate you could fully unplug the power and move the computer and it will resume exactly where it left off. That was one of the reasons why I use hibernate over sleep. The computer full powers down. It loads everything back into RAM, so for example your browser or whatever you had running will be loaded exactly as it was. Hibernate stores the contents of your RAM onto your HDD and restores your session when you boot up.

Benefits include everything being exactly as you left it when you turned it off and it's still significantly faster than a cold boot is. (Most of the boot time improvements from Windows 8 came from switching to Hibernation as the default shut down method to put it simply) &gt; I really wouldn't care much about hibernate on a console as it will take almost just as long to reload as it would to start the game up from total power off.

Nah, not even. There's a good reason why Windows 8/8.1 and above now default to a hybrid shutdown/hibernation instead of full power off, it still boots faster than from a cold start. It's kinda like saying an SSD isn't worth it purely from a speed (Not lack of permanent storage, price, capacity, etc) because RAMDisks are so fast..Eh, they're still faster than the next best thing and an improvement.

Besides, what would stop Sony from having the console suspend to RAM then back up to the HDD regardless? That way you'd suspend 95% of the time but if the power was cut you'd just hibernate and not lose progress, etc in your game. That depends on whether the system saves the memory to some form of persistent storage as soon as you pause the game instead of doing it on shutdown. Good point though. Suspend to RAM instantly but then have the console copy the data to the internal non-volatile storage similar to hibernation on Windows PCs while appearing to be off to the user. That way if the power goes out it'll still work. Make it an optional feature ("Suspend Power-Loss Protection") or something so users won't all lose 8GB of storage. This is why [memristors](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Memristor) are going to be such a game changer in the next few years.  Having ram that is persistent regardless of power state will enable ridiculously responsive systems when there's enough memory to use as cache.

Of course, you can do that now with ramdisks, but their usefulness is limited by the need to refresh them so frequently. Yeah or when your asshole roomate turns your xbox off just to be a dick and you didn't save when playing Dragon Age Inquisition but turn it on and it's right where you left it. I've owned both a One and a PS4 and I can tell you I'm enjoying the One far more than the PS4. To be fair, Dragon Age Inquisition autosaves after nearly everything. From turning my Xbox on to killing someone in GTA, it takes maybe 12 seconds. On my 360 that would take around 7 minutes. It's so nice.  7 minutes on the 360? For some reason it feels like it is longer than that. 