it looks like it still has to take the chloroplast from the algae but its still cool to watch the conversion from endosymbiosis to a organelle occurring before our eyes.

perhaps in a few million more generations it will develop fully into an organelle like it is theorized mitochondria and chloroplasts first evolved. I'm surprised no one else has pointed out that the title of this Reddit article is incorrect. They don't actually incorporate a photosynthesis gene, as you say. But they incorporate a gene that maintains the photosynthesis/chloroplasts function correct?  the gene encodes a protein that is involved in the Calvin-Benson cycle ,so it actually is a "photosynthetic gene." Many genes that the chloroplast needs to function have been translocated to host nuclear genomes, which is one of the mechanisms behind the evolution of the chloroplast from a free-living organism (i.e. cyanobacteria) to an "enslaved" organelle of another organism [deleted] &gt;  It is more likely that mutations arose at the DNA level that produced proteins that promoted the survival of captive algae and it is a result of convergent evolution

No, the unique nucleotide sequence indicates this gene came from the algae, it is not convergent evolution. A protein sequence can be coded for by a wide variety of different DNA sequences due to the redundancy in the genetic code that results in something called silent mutations. Based on the specific sequence, the researchers can be certain the gene was transferred from the algae, and did not arise spontaneously in the slug Article is behind a paywall, but the title would suggest it is proof of lateral transfer.

&gt; Julie A. Schwartz, Nicholas E. Curtis, and Sidney K. Pierce
&gt; FISH Labeling Reveals a Horizontally Transferred Algal (Vaucheria litorea) Nuclear Gene on a Sea Slug (Elysia chlorotica) Chromosome
&gt; Biol Bull 2014 227:300-312 There are some bacteriophage (bacteria virus) transport proteins with a eukaryotic nuclear localization signal that can form a complex with phage DNA and introduce bacteriophage DNA into the eukaryotic nucleus.  Wow. I'm a molecular biologist by training and had no idea this was possible. Any handy information that might help me pubmed the articles more quickly? Here's a Small Things Considered [blog post](http://schaechter.asmblog.org/schaechter/2014/12/merry-2.html) that talks about this.

They cite the paper I was talking about, which is: [Nuclear localization signals in phage terminal proteins provide a novel gene delivery tool in mammalian cells.](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23750294) Many thanks. Those were published relatively recently, I was worried that this was old news and I never heard about it.

 so ai went n read it, 

http://m.pnas.org/content/105/46/17867.full

you may find this interesting it's from the 'conclusions'

&gt;In light of these findings, the prospect of natural HGT taking place between distantly related organisms, especially with any physical contact, must be considered formally possible. This is especially true in the context of genetically modified organisms. 
 What exactly could this say about GMO? Are they suggesting that after millions of ears of eating plants cows can now perform photosynthesis? Pal though they found the same gene, do they know the mechanism? Could very well be coincidental via phage and have nothing at all to say about GMOs....or maybe we are all immune to RoundUp (tm) no, they are suggesting something that bypasses the whole 'millions of years' part

it's long been known that single celled organisms sometimes (accidentally or not?) insert bits of the dna from what it 'eats' into its own dna however proving the same thing can happen in more complex creatures has been difficult

if it's shown conclusively that it can happen in higher life forms then we have to accept the possibility that modified genes in plants/animals we interact with could end up in our own genome or in neighboring non-modified crops or livestock causing unknown effect Just read the paper - FISH is a technique that probes for the presence of DNA - the chloroplast gene is definitely there, probably indicating lateral gene transfer. But no experiments were done on whether the gene is functional for photosynthetic purposes. 
Tl/dr - gene present, function unknown. 
 These same authors had a 2010 paper where they found this same gene in transcriptome samples from this species of sea slug, so we know they are expressing the gene. Suppose that's still not definitive proof that it's a functional protein, but I'm willing to bet it is functional, given how long the slug can maintain the stolen chloroplasts  Eukaryote-to-eukaryote LGT is actually not that unusual, especially among eukaryovores (euks that eat euks, as opposed to those who feed on prokes or nutrients directly). The sea slug case is debated because it involves a multicellular organism -- if a somatic cell acquires a foreign gene, even if that gene somehow confers absolute adaptive advantage (not too probable to begin with), it's unlikely to be vertically inherited. But among most eukaryotes (who are unicellular), that isn't a problem, as there's no germline-soma segregation. Although now I wonder... LGT in ciliates, who have germline/somatic nuclear dimorphism...

I don't know if in the sea slug case, the stolen algal plastids (or their fragments) ever come near the germline cells. If not, LGT does become rather unlikely, though freak accidents do happen. Agreed, that and the entire process of evolution which led to this really cool slug I would love an eli5 of this...it's like I read these words but I have no idea what you're saying.

I'd Google all of them(including parent posts), but I could probably just take up microbiology as a career at that point. If you break up the word photosynthesis, you get photo (light) and synthesis (to make). 

The photo part is capturing energy from light and turning it into chemical energy. 

http://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Light-dependent_reactions

The synthesis part is commonly known as the Calvin cycle as referred by the poster above. This cycle is actually individual chemical reactions that lead to the production of sugars that plants can use. It takes the chemical energy and turns it into larger molecular energy. 

http://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Calvin_cycle#Calvin_Cycle

Imagine a wheel like this http://www.johnhearfield.com/Wind/Lifting_water.gif  . The outside energy of someone turning the wheel would be the photo part and the water moving up hill would be the synthesis part. 

So the gene here Prk represents one part of the wheel. The big finding is that instead of being all encompassed within one organism, part of the cycle is now in these slugs! We know from genetic data that this happened before to give us plants. 

The thought is that two organisms fused. One the specialized in photosynthesis (like the algae here) and one that didn't (like the slug here). 

It's especially exciting because it's like a snapshot in evolution. Like a slow melding between chocolate and marshmallow in a s'more. 

Sorry if I lost steam at the end. It's late That was such a great explanation! Thank you for that. :) But the main takeaway is you should have more algae in your diet.

Edit: "On this third planet from this star Sol, you'll be a god among men. They are a flawed race. Rule them with strength, my son." DNA is like our library of evolution. About the only way we know of that we can get the information in that library is to get it from our mom and dad (but see epigenetics)--each parent giving us half the books in our own personal library. Every cell in the body contains a complete library that is somewhat redundant having two copies of each book although the two copies are somewhat different, but sperm and eggs each have half a library that can be passed on to children. 

What has happened to us over generations and indeed back to our bacterial ancestors is reflected in our DNA. The DNA (evolutionary library) is divided into genes that are something like books in the library. Sometimes people say the book or gene is the fundamental unit of inheritance.

It's been known for some time that these slugs can steal parts of plant cells called chloroplasts where sunlight is turned into energy (food, calories). What we did not know is that these slugs can actually steal a book from the plants library thus taking the information from their evolutionary history to use for their own advantage.

We have known that bacteria do this book stealing from each other all the time. Because they use the same language in their books as we do in ours, we have been able to use the tricks bacteria use to swap books (genes) in the laboratory between libraries (animals, plants, bacteria, etc) and thus we have GMOs. 

Now it looks like these slugs can do the same thing bacteria do--steal books. It also looks like these stolen books are passed onto offspring, which means they are incorporated into the libraries of sperm and/or eggs. Do we have any clue how this book stealing occurred? Especially how the genetic code was integrated into sperm and/or eggs?  So... you work on _Micromonas_? How does everything fit in there anyway? ;-) (Are you one of the cryptic species people, or was that in _Ostreococcus_?)

The sea slug is still a case of kleptoplasty, but there are other cases where genes seem to jump into host nuclei and keep plastids alive longer -- eg stolen cryptophyte plastids in _Dinophysis_ have bled some genes into the dino nucleus, which seems to help them stick around longer. There's a bit of a debate between secondary or tertiary plastid acquisition happening via stable endosymbiosis (whole organism living within its host) or kleptoplasty (the plastid being stolen many, many times with necessary genes for keeping it longer eventually accumulating to the point that the plastids can be maintained indefinitely). That is my understanding, yes [deleted] actually the gene, *prk*, codes for an enzymes [Phosphoribulokinase](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Phosphoribulokinase) which is involved in carbon fixation i.e. the Calvin-Benson cycle, so it is indeed a "photosynthesis gene" Where does the photo part come in? Is the process powered by sunlight? It is not misleading to say that a photosynthesis gene was transferred since the gene that was transferred, prK,  does play a role in photosynthesis by enabling the maintenance of the organelle--chloroplast-- responsible for this process. Without this gene, the sea slug's captured chloroplasts couldn't be repaired ,thereby resulting in a loss of its photosynthetic capabilities. 

Edit: Spelling mistake. this gene doesn't just maintain the chloroplast, [*prk*](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Phosphoribulokinase) is required for carbon fixation so it's completely accurate to call it a 'photosynthesis gene' The paper actually suggests "dozens" of genes are likely to have transferred to the slugs chromosome, Prk is just the one they happened to probe for. To quote the paper:

 "Prk was chosen from among the variety of possible genes because several previous studies have found evidence for its horizontal transfer between V. litorea and E. chlorotica using both polymerase chain reaction (PCR) experiments in adult and larval slug DNA (Rumphoet al., 2009; Schwartz et al., 2010) and adult slug transcriptome sequence data analysis (Pierce et al ., 2012). Also, prk encodes a protein used exclusively in the Calvin cycle and has no known homolog in non-photosynthetic organisms." So what was the actual physical mechanism for the horizontal gene transfer. Like, okay: this slug eats some algae, the algae DNA is floating around its stomach (not exactly sure of sea slugs anatomy, but whatever, there's loose strands of DNA floating around). How do those stands get into the slug's cells, then into the nucleus, then get incorporated into its DNA? And wouldn't any old cell not work? Wouldn't it have to be a reproductive cell? Yeah I was gonna call out op for the title but decided against it. It's semi debatable since you could say that without having the gene transfer it would be much harder to maintain the photosynthesis over time.  &gt;perhaps in a few million more generations it will develop fully into an organelle like it is theorized mitochondria and chloroplasts first evolved.

Im not sure how it works with this particular species of algae, but many genes needed for chloroplasts to replicate are located in the nuclear genome of the 'host' algae. This translocation of essential genes from ancient cyanobacteria (i.e. proto-chloroplast) to the host nuclear genome is one of the theorized mechanisms that "enslaved" the chloroplast and made it an organelle dependent on the host. 

So for the slug to synthesize it's own chloroplasts, it would need to incorporate many more nuclear genes from the algal prey into it's own genome. Interesting that it already seems to have acquired one gene from the algal nuclear genome, but the probability of acquiring all at once an entire suite of genes that are needed to start synthesizing chloroplasts from scratch seems very, very improbable, especially considering the relatively low number of these organelle-forming endosymbioses currently known to science I thought chloroplasts and mitochondria are able to self-replicate, since they have their own DNA and ribosomes. Isn't this one of the leading pieces of evidence for the endosymbiont theory?

EDIT: a word they do have their own DNA and ribosomes, which is how we know mitochondria and chloroplasts came from an alpha proteobacteria and a cyanobacteria, respectively. However, they are not entirely self-sufficient, or else they would be able to live outside of the host cell and would not be an organelle. For a really terrible metaphor, the host cell has taken essential chloroplast genes as hostages, thus keeping the organelle dependent on the host for growth. [Here](http://www.mpg.de/5610272/chloroplasts_cell_nucleus) is an article with more information about transfer of chloroplast genes to host nuclear genome Would this be an example of Muller's ratchet then? The transfer of the chloroplast genes into the nuclear genome of the algae, eventually leading to deletion of the gene from the chloroplast, which would then make the chloroplast unable to function independant of the algae. certainly sounds plausible to me, but since the exact mechanism behind the endosymbiotic theory is still a mystery, I suppose we can't say for certain Furthermore, genes are necessary but not sufficient for most organelles. There's a poor studied parallel process of cellular inheritance, where structures and patterning are directly inherited from the preceding generation. Organisms and cellular contexts vary in their reliance on this (properly epigenetic) process, but there are cases where fiddling with structural organisation without affecting the genome leads to permanently heritable changes (eg. classic [Beisson + Sonneborn 1965](http://www.pnas.org/content/53/2/275.full.pdf+html)). Anyway, this seems to hold particularly true for endosymbiont-derived organelles. You need a plastid to target your plastid genes onto. Having the entire set of properly expressed genes and correctly folded proteins is still insufficient for a _de novo_ plastid or mitochondrion.  Cellular structures have an evolutionary path of their own -- the genome is just a source of building materials! Can we help it along the way just to show this is possible? Synthetic organelles should be very interesting for a variety of reasons. You could maybe add all genes required for synthesis but it would be hit or miss. It's not clear if the proteins would be proccesed the same way in a animal as they were in the plant.  I'm just baffled how it steals chloroplast in the first place. Friggen' need drugs to hold down a kidney transplant of the same species, this slug goes to a different kingdom, no rejection. yeah photosynthesis in the chloroplasts results in the formation of a large amount of reactive oxygen species, which certainly has the potential to cause significant stress in an animal cell. But for whatever reason, these slugs seem to tolerate it just fine. mitochondria can also lead to significant ROS, more or less depending on the carbon source.

it would be interesting to look at their ROS mitigations genes like superoxide dismutase perhaps there is something that is more effective than most other animal enzymes.  Reference:

J.A. Schwartz et al. 2014.[FISH labeling reveals a horizontally transferred algal (Vaucheria litorea) nuclear gene on a sea slug (Elysia chlorotica) chromosome](http://www.biolbull.org/content/227/3/300.abstract). The Biological Bulletin 227(3):300-312. TLDR;

-We've known since the 1970s the slugs steal and preserve chloroplasts from algae they eat.

-Recent research shows that the slugs have genes whose function is to repair the stolen chloroplasts, allowing them to keep the chloroplasts working

-Unlike the chloroplasts which need to be eaten by baby slugs each generation, the repair genes are passed on to offspring from parents. Are the repair genes transgenes or did they evolve from other slug genes? The title implies that they're transgenes which sounds amazing.  The abstract of the research paper indicates horizontal transfer, rather than convergent evolution. Haven't read the full paper yet, but this one is going top of my list.  "baby slugs"  is an awfully cute idea  Dumb question probably, but is merely an accident that the sea slug in in that picture looks a *lot* like a leaf, to the point of even having a similar-looking vascular network. Well leaves are that shape to maximize surface area for light capture, so I doubt it's an accident. It is a great example of convergent evolution. In convergent evolution, two very different organisms evolve similar structures over time because of the biological effectiveness of the structure. Organisms such as birds, insects and bats all independently evolved flight as an adaptation. This analogous vascular structure evolved for the same reason. It has a very efficient surface area to volume ratio and both plants and this slug receive significant benefits from this adaptation. It makes you wonder what sort of similarities we might find on an alien world. While selection pressures would certainly be different, the mathematical principles and the laws of physics still apply - so you may be right Is this why many creatures on earth have four limbs, eyes, mouth, etc...? I think this has more to do with being part of a certein evolution tree with that general shape. A lot of creatures have more legs, eyes, hands etc.. The reason leaves and other plants are green is because of the way chlorophyll works. Chlorophyll primarily absorbs red and blue light. You can think of it as "subtracting" red and blue from the light spectrum.  
&gt;Visible light - red - blue = green

This sea slug has the very same chloroplasts as its food supply, which could possibly explain why their pigments are so similar. There are most likely many reasons though. You could argue that the slug is green because it evolved to camouflage itself with its food supply... these are just a few hypotheses.

I'm not too sure about its other leaf-like qualities, but it is most likely an evolutionary benefit and not a coincidence. &gt; It has been known since the 1970s that E. chloritica steals chloroplasts from V. litorea (called kleptoplasty) and embeds them into its own digestive cells. Once inside the slug cells, the chloroplasts continue to photosynthesize for up to nine monthsmuch longer than they would perform in the alga.

I wonder if something similar to this is how mitochondria ended up within Eukaryotic cells. I find that so fascinating--a foreign organism becomes integrated into the host cell, but not just once--repeatedly to the point that it becomes a part of the host cell's *DNA*. That is pretty much exactly how they theorize mitochondria and chloroplasts came to reside in eukaryotes. Both structures have the same features that many bacteria during that time had as well. They think an early cell ingested the mitochondria/chloroplast by phagocytosis and it incorporated itself into the genome of its new host.
 Lynn Margulis! Not only one of the greatest evolutionary minds but also the ex-wife of Carl Sagan. I had the pleasure to dine with her while at UMASS. Really amazing perspective on the evolution of modern species. [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] That's amazing. Biologists of Reddit, is this the first time such rapid evolution via this mechanism has been seen? This seems like pretty big news. [Horizontal gene transfer](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Horizontal_gene_transfer) is common enough in prokaryotes, archaea, and viruses but this is the first instance I've ever seen of it occurring in a multicellular organism, and the article confirms its rarity but doesn't list any other examples.  
  
  
EDIT: From that Wikipedia article:  
  
&gt;* Analysis of DNA sequences suggests that horizontal gene transfer has occurred within eukaryotes from the chloroplast and mitochondrial genomes to the nuclear genome. As stated in the endosymbiotic theory, chloroplasts and mitochondria probably originated as bacterial endosymbionts of a progenitor to the eukaryotic cell.[37]  

&gt;* Horizontal transfer occurs from bacteria to some fungi, especially the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae.[38]
&gt;* The adzuki bean beetle has acquired genetic material from its (non-beneficial) endosymbiont Wolbachia.[39] New examples have recently been reported demonstrating that Wolbachia bacteria represent an important potential source of genetic material in arthropods and filarial nematodes.[40]
&gt;* Mitochondrial genes moved to parasites of the Rafflesiaceae plant family from their hosts.[41][42] from chloroplasts of a not-yet-identified plant to the mitochondria of the bean Phaseolus,[43] and from a heterokont alga to its predator, the sea slug Elysia chlorotica.[44]
&gt;* Striga hermonthica, a eudicot, has received a gene from sorghum (Sorghum bicolor) to its nuclear genome.[45] The gene is of unknown functionality.
&gt;* Pea aphids (Acyrthosiphon pisum) contain multiple genes from fungi.[46][47] Plants, fungi and microorganisms can synthesize carotenoids, but torulene made by pea aphids is the only carotenoid known to be synthesized by an organism in the animal kingdom.[46]
&gt;* The malaria pathogen Plasmodium vivax acquired genetic material from humans that might help facilitate its long stay in the body.[48]
&gt;* A bacteriophage-mediated mechanism transfers genes between prokaryotes and eukaryotes. Nuclear localization signals in bacteriophage terminal proteins (TP) prime DNA replication and become covalently linked to the viral genome. The role of virus and bacteriophages in HGT in bacteria, suggests that TP-containing genomes could be a vehicle of inter-kingdom genetic information transference all throughout evolution.[49]
&gt;* HhMAN1 is a gene in the genome of the coffee borer beetle (Hypothenemus hampei) that resembles bacterial genes, and is thought to be transferred from bacteria in the beetle's gut.[50][51]
&gt;* A gene that allowed ferns to survive in dark forests came from the hornwort, which grows in mats on streambanks or trees. The neochrome gene arrived about 180 million years ago.[52] An example of horizontal gene transfer in humans for those interested is the ability to digest agar.  

Humans normally can't digest agar. However there are some people that can because of gene transfer between the marine bacterium *Zobellia galactanivorans* and human gut bacterium *Bacteroides
plebeius*. *Zobellia galactanivorans* has a gene that codes for porphorynase, an enzyme that digests agar, and is often found on seaweed. People who eat sushi a lot (the study was done on the gut microbiomes of Japanese citizens I believe) have been found to have *Bacteroides plebeius* with this gene, allowing for the digestion of agar. 

Where the horizontal gene transfer comes in is that the young child of a woman with this gene also possessed the gene in her gut bacteria, despite never having eaten any sushi.  The mother passed on the diversity of her gut microbiome and the ability to 'digest' agar, via birth and subsequent breastfeeding. Quotes around digest because the bacteria are doing the actual work. Serious question: is there any realistic ideas about how to incorporate this sort of thing into humans as a form of gene therapy?

Non-serious question: Plasmids, when?! A new and (in my opinion) much cooler method of gene editing would be by use of a [CRISPR](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/CRISPR) system. CRISPR provides a basic bacterial "immune" system by incorporating genetic information from previously encountered phages and using that information to produce templates that will allow special proteins to recognize that viral sequence and destroy it. We can take advantage of this process.


&gt;Since 2013, the CRISPR/Cas system has been used for gene editing (adding, disrupting or changing the sequence of specific genes) and gene regulation in species throughout the tree of life.[7] By delivering the Cas9 protein and appropriate guide RNAs into a cell, the organism's genome can be cut at any desired location.

&gt;It may be possible to use CRISPR to build RNA-guided gene drives capable of altering the genomes of entire populations.[8]  
  
and  
  
&gt;Editas Medicine, a $43 million startup, aims to develop treatments that employ CRISPR/Cas to make edits to single base pairs and larger stretches of DNA. Inherited diseases such as cystic fibrosis and sickle-cell anemia are caused by single base pair mutations; CRISPR/Cas technology has the potential to correct these errors. The "corrected" gene remains in its normal location on its chromosome, which preserves the way the cell normally activates and/or inhibits its expression.[100]

&gt;After harvesting blood cell precursors called hematopoietic stem cells from a patient's bone marrow, CRISPR gene surgery would correct the defective gene. Then the gene-corrected stem cells would be returned to the patient's marrow, which would then produce healthy red blood cells. Replacing 70% of the sickle cells would produce a cure.[27]

&gt;Other pathologies potentially treatable by CRISPR include Huntingtons disease, aging, schizophrenia and autism, not to mention modifying DNA in living embryos.[27]

&gt;Improved targeting is required before CRISPR can be used in medical applications. Current guide RNAs may target sequences that differ by multiple base pairs from the intended sequence.[16]

&gt;In 2014, UCSF researchers used CRISPR to create disease-free versions of induced pluripotent stem cells of beta thalassemia patients.[101]  
  
This is really, really important technology. Yay CRISPR! So glad to see this mentioned here! I've been working with the technology (and gene editing in mammalian systems in general) for a few years now.  [deleted] Do you have comments on gene activation with CRISPR? It was in Nature today, I haven't gone through the article but the abstract sounded really cool. Is that something completely new or has there been research on that before? This has been touched upon previously but not nearly to the extent of the [Nature](http://www.nature.com/nature/journal/v517/n7536/full/nature14136.html) paper you are referring to. 

The same concept (fusing VP64 to the nuclease) has been done with both TALENs and ZFNs, so it's not surprising to see it done again here. I haven't read  the article yet but it looks as if it was rather successful. What's special about this approach using CRISPR is the fact that with CRISPR you can do it in a multiplex fashion - meaning we have the ability to simultaneously target many, many genes - very cheaply and very quickly. It takes about 1-3 days to make a guide RNA if you're doing it manually. If you have a high throughput setup you can make thousands in no time.

 So does this mean that those science fiction stories about human incorporating chloroplast for space travel is maybe possible (the idea that an organism can use plant based organelle in conjunction with the mitochondia)? I am way out of my Japanese youth culture field here but I would assume there would be a big issue along the lines of surface area to volume ratio in providing enough photosynthetic cells to meet the energy needs of our bodies, assuming it is possible. I mean there are a few science fiction novels where photosynthesis is merely used as a way to extend food supplies rather than fully supplement the human body. Like you said human don't have a good surface area to volume ratio compared to plants which were designed to fully utilise photosynthesis. I remember reading a trilogy with genetically modified humans incorporated with chloroplast. Plants have mitochondria too Horizontal gene transfer is common among bacteria and single celled eukaryotes, but this is one of the few examples of a gene naturally transferring from a multicellular eukaryote to another multicellular eukaryote. I wouldn't necessarily describe this evolution as "rapid", this study just confirmed the slug genome contains an algal gene, they make no mention (at least from what I've seen) about how quickly this transfer took place. The slug could have obtained this gene millions of years ago, or just a few thousand years ago.  Not at all.

What happened here is called horizontal gene transfer. Which means that a gene has passed from one species to another without sex. 

It is frighteningly common among bacteria, who actually have specialized chunks of DNA called plasmids that they can exchange with each other. This is a very real concern when dealing with antibiotic resistant bacteria.

Hospitals are constantly battling bacteria that have built up resistance to different types of antibiotics. If multiple species of resistant bacteria come into contact with each other, then there's a chance that one of them will receive resistance genes from the other, resulting in a new strain that is resistant to both antibiotics.

This has occurred multiple times in hospitals around the world and now we're dealing with superbugs like Totally Drug-Resistant tuberculosis.

Among more complex organisms, HGT is much rarer but it does still happen. Most often it's caused by viruses. You probably understand the basics of how viruses work, they incorporate their DNA into the host cell's DNA. The viral DNA takes over the cell and forces it to construct more viruses to infect more cells.

Sometimes though, bits of host DNA gets mixed up in the new viruses. Additionally, sometimes when a virus inserts it's DNA into the host cell something goes wrong and it doesn't make new viruses. When these happen together, that's horizontal gene transfer.

Some bacteria are known to cause HGT as well. [Agrobacterium tumefaciens](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Agrobacterium_tumefaciens) is one that is very frequently used in making genetically modified plants.

Some species can even preform HGT all on their own. [Bdelloid rotifers](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rotifer) are small organisms that commonly live in puddles. They have the ability to survive being dried out thanks to enzymes that reassemble their DNA upon rehydration. These enzymes sometimes pick up random bits and pieces of DNA from the environment. This trait has let them survive even though they lost the ability to sexually reproduce millions of years ago. By picking up random bits of DNA they're able to continue evolving even though they only reproduce asexually.

And that's just a few examples of HGT, which is just one particular evolutionary mechanism. An even faster and more common (in plants at least) mechanism is whole genome duplication.

If you cross two plant species, one of which has 10 chromosomes and the other with 12, you'll get a hybrid offspring with 11 chromosomes. This odd number can't pair off in meiosis and so the plant is sterile. To fix this, the plant will simply double it's genome and end up with 22 chromosomes.

This new plant is usually unable to reproduce with either of the parent species, so it instantly becomes a new species. I'm no biologist, but a very similar thing has occurred in a certain Jellyfish, They've even lost the ability to sting as the no longer need to hunt. http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jellyfish_Lake Is this really that rapid though? Most mutations and thus evolution comes from thousands of years of time going by. Evolution is happening all around us, all the time. We just don't notice most of it. I'd wager that the slug didn't just happen to mutate one day, but that it took years and years of slight changes until this mechanic was actually functional. [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] What allows the sea slug to incorporate the DNA into its own genome, more so, how is the introduced DNA heritable? Presumably (we can never know EXACTLY what happened), the algae made it into one of the cells in an ancestral sea slug, a cell that serves as the progenitor for that slug's reproductive cells.  This algae cell was broken open and its DNA broken up into smaller pieces.  One of these pieces contained a photosynthesis gene, which is now floating freely in the cell.

At the same moment, there may have been a double-stranded break in the sea slug cell's own DNA.  Although the cell is a dangerous environment for a small fragment of DNA, and although the fragment would've had to make it through the nuclear membrane...that photosynthesis gene makes it to this double-stranded break, and fits itself right in.  Because this cell gives rise to sperm/eggs, this insertion will carry on into the offspring of this slug.

Note that this process is *incredibly* unlikely to happen successfully, and even when it does happen, the chances that these gene is actually "turned on" (epigenetically activated) are still shaky.  However, it has happened in OUR ancestors time and time again!  Our mitochondria ("the powerhouse of the cell!") almost certainly descended from full-fledged bacteria.  They contain their own very genome, made of DNA which they replicate on their own.  However, this genome is very small; the vast majority of genes important for mitochondria are located in the cell's nuclear (main) DNA.  Many of these genes closely resemble bacterial genes, supporting the idea that they showed up to our ancestor cell inside of a bacterium first and then broke off into our genome! 

I've greatly simplified a lot of this, so let me know if you want to know more. So, now that another animal has it, how hard would it be to incorporate it into our DNA with splicing? Or, because ethics committees, splice it into a rat's DNA? I would be extremely surprised if anyone could drum up enough interest for human photosynthesis to get funded.

That's of course ignoring the many, many steps between here and even seriously considering that.

Also more importantly, photosynthesis doesn't produce enough energy to usefully fuel human daily life. We already have more energy than we know what to do with. The more useful discovery for the average joe would be finding a way to utilize our excess calories before they're stored as fat. Make super muscles or some kind of synthetic aerobic system, or a brain with a higher gear. We've got access to 10's of thousands of calories per day and we don't have any good way to use them all If we do that, it won't make much of a difference. We require more energy than those chloroplasts can provide (think of how little trees move and how many leaves it still has)

I'm no expert on the transferring part though. I would imagine it is possible but not sure.  But think of how much energy you get by burning a tree... Think how old that tree is, and for how long it burns. The average daily insolation is ~5 kWh/m^2 according to [this](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Insolation#mediaviewer/File:SolarGIS-Solar-map-World-map-en.png).  Photosynthetic efficiency is generally in the neighborhood of a few percent, with [sugarcane leading at 8%](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Photosynthetic_efficiency).  

So, let's say that a person has half a square meter of bare skin exposed to the sun at all times during the day (say they walk around shirtless and work outdoors), and that a whopping 8% of that solar flux goes straight into useable energy (can we agree that this is a generous assumption?).  Alright, so that's about (5 kWh/day*m^2 )(0.5 m^2 )(0.08) = 0.2 kWh per day = 172 Calories (kcal) per day = 1 cookie per day, per person.  If we could do that, we wouldn't have to eat, but I think the process is too slow. We already incorporate previously foreign stuff into our body such as mitochondria and I believe something about the hemoglobin.  Splicing is not really the right way to think about it. We have the ability to transfer individual genes to organisms but the complexity(and elegance) of this phenomena is the abiilty of the organism to intake another living organism and, not only use it's processes to benefit the host(symbiosis) but also use the "injested" organisms DNA to prolong the process of photosynthesis.  This is similar to how mitochondria were assimilated into eukaryotic organisms.

Check out 'The Origin of Species' Will this help at all in understanding the mechanism, leading to a faster incorporation of photosynthesis in Biomimetics/Biomimicry? [deleted] [deleted] This article title is wrong. it doesn't incorporate a 'photosynthesis' gene. It just has a gene that helps repair the chloropasts that it steals from the algae. Still impressive though, just a misleading title. And what does that mean, for us non-biologists? Mentioned above. prk is the gene in question, and it catalyzes a reaction necessary for carbon fixation, the process by which environmental sources of carbon are converted to a useable form for an organism. So the parent isn't right. Although the gene also maintains chloroplastic function, it is also a photosynthetic gene that can be vertically transferred. [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] 2008 article

http://m.pnas.org/content/105/46/17867.full [deleted] [deleted] How is it able to do that? I doubt it "strips" the genes and "pastes" it into its own genetic code, but..... HOW? Would this be considered horizontal gene transfer? Similar to how chloroplasts originated in the first place That's pretty remarkable. Good that it doesn't work that way for us, otherwise we would have pretty far ranging abilities.  Does this animal need to breathe?  Sea slugs live completely underwater and breathe through a gill. Some species swim, too! In my layman's opinion, they're far more interesting than land slugs, and a damn sight prettier, too.

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sea_slug So this whole thing is kind of blurring the lines between the absolute simplest taxonomic categories is that correct? Could a similar kind of gene transfer through digestion occur in humans? If yes, this could potentially lead to cell mutation and formation of tumors. Just thinking out loud. On another part of the thread, there was talk about people who eat a lot of sushi developing the ability to digest agar. You might find the post interesting.  [deleted] This is an excellent opportunity to have science redditors delve into books by Lynn Margulis and Dorion Sagan and obtain a better grasp of Endosymbiotic theory and its contributions to biological evolution.  Does this mean there is scientific evidence for "you are what you eat?"

:-)
 MOM GET THE CAMERA!! I'm evolving!! I will soon feed off the son and praise the son god!!! Veganism makes so much more sense now... Mama always said you are what you eat [Horizontal gene transfer](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Horizontal_gene_transfer) is amazing.  Nature doing what genetic engineers are doing, only without government regulations. Please do not just take this for granted.

The author(s) confirms his own previous results. No one has been able to reproduce this and genome sequencing of the slugs and tons of transcriptome data tell a different story. If you care, take a look here e.g. (to start with):

https://pbsociety.org.pl/journals/index.php/asbp/article/view/asbp.2014.042
 [deleted] Doesn't that mean that eventually we should be able to do the same ourselves? The math has been done on this already, and even if we were naked in the sun all day, it would add up to less than one meal per day.  Brains and large muscles are expensive. That's why we are apex predators (and also fruit and other calorie rich stuff) and not bottom feeders like this slug. [deleted] The last time I read about this was a few years ago during grad school.  Not exactly new news.  Interesting for certain though.

[Here is a 2008 article about this](http://www.newscientist.com/article/dn16124-solarpowered-sea-slug-harnesses-stolen-plant-genes.html). [deleted] [deleted] I remember lesrning about this in my bio 107 class...5 years ago you probably learned about the endosymbiosis, but probably not about the horizontal gene transfer that has occurred so that the chloroplasts can be maintained without the algae being involved.   

The gene transfer is the discovery in the paper, not the fact that they take chloroplasts from algae.  Actually, I did a research paper on this very subject 5 years ago. I guess OPs posted study just confirms some previously difficult-to-prove ideas...

http://www.pnas.org/content/105/46/17867.abstract

http://link.springer.com/article/10.1007%2Fs13199-009-0044-8 Oh I see. So the FISH is the only novelty to this new paper? That's what I get for skimming just the news article and not reading the full source.   &gt; However, genome sequencing of E. chlorotica egg ribbons, which are actually unhatched larvae, failed to find any algal sequences (Bhattacharya et al., 2013). This negative result was used to dismiss all of the previous positive results, including those with larvae, that demonstrated horizontal gene transfer between V. litorea and E. chlorotica, [...] Since a negative result from genomic data will always be subject at least to not enough data and not in the database criticisms, we have used a different approach to test the E. chlorotica genome for the presence of algal genes. Instead of just more genome sequencing, we used fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) and fluorescent microscopy to test chromosomes from pre-hatched E. chlorotica larvae (which have never been exposed to any algae) for the presence of algal sequences.

Just being thorough.  oh i see. It's more contested than it appeared to be.
 


 Thanks for those links. Very interesting stuff! From the abstract, it seems they had already discovered the gene transfer through PCR analysis of the slug DNA, but had not localized where in the genome it was. This study did that using FISH. Ohhh I must have misunderstood it! That's really cool! Ty for enlightening me! I am not so sure, I have been hearing reports of this example of horizontal gene transfer for years. It may be "cutting edge" but this particular report is not new to anyone that has been paying attention to the literature. thank you dr. doomhammer! Yes, I remember it was the Elysium sea slug that did this already? I honestly can't remember, I guess what another guy was saying is the thing that's new is the gene transfer. Is the gene being transfered needed for a photosynthetic molecule in the cells of the slug or is it just molecular evidence of an immune response to the algae who is a symbiot to the slug? According to the article: 

&gt; This gene makes an enzyme that is critical to the function of photosynthetic machines called chloroplasts, which are typically found in plants and algae. [deleted] A single injection has protected monkey for 34 weeks from the monkey version of HIV. They have been injected with four time the dose that was enough to infect the control group. Impressive protection level ! but this doesn't work because?....

 Protects... Doesn't fight  But that isn't necessarily a bad thing right? Protection is the first step towards the eradication of a virus. For example, there's no cure for smallpox but since we came up with a vaccine for it that provided immunization, smallpox hasn't been seen since around 1977.  Wasn't this almost the case with measles?  To my understanding because there are many who did but vaccinate. Yeap, [ CDC declared measles was eliminated from the US in 2000]( http://www.cdc.gov/measles/about/faqs.html ). I believe public schools here won't let you register for kindergarten until you've been vaccinated. But the anti-vaccine movement, who's claim has been refuted many times over, caused a drop in folks who are immune to the disease.

This is particularly an issue for those who physically cannot be vaccinated and must rely on herd immunity. Sucks balls. 

Edit: word Just a note:

In epidemiology, "eliminated" means it's no longer endemic. Cases might still occur, but there's no source of infection within that region. Eradicated is used to mean that the disease no longer is expected to have cases.

Measles was eliminated. Smallpox was eradicated.

In order to eradicate a disease, there normally needs to be no natural reservoir for the disease (an animal carrier that isn't killed by the disease), or there needs to be 100% immunity within the population. [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] Which means we're golden, until the anti-vaxxers gain momentum in African countries. They kind of already have for years.  Even before the autism BS was being slung around.  Many Africans distrust western medicine and see vaccines not as the life saving inoculations they are but as an intrusion by the west.  Some even go as far as to say the vaccines don't prevent a disease but instead are sterilization programs to eliminate or control their country.   [deleted] Not a need for the second? Except all those Ebola researchers that still caught it despite being super protected already. I don't know about Ebola "researchers" being infected, haven't heard any of that in this recent Ebola outbreak. The people who got infected were doctors/nurses working with infected patients. Those who were infected in Africa were likely dealing with a *very* challenging situation as far as medical infrastructure goes. And the nurse who was infected in Texas, she had only recently been trained, and the fact is she was not properly trained. I work for a nurses Union, and we did a TON of training for ourselves and the nurses around Ebola preparedness. It took way longer than it ever should have for US hospitals to get containment measures in place, especially when it comes to protective gear, adequate staffing, and, most important, proper training. The diligence required to prevent infection is something that has to be learned through repeated trainings, over time. Hospitals were doing it in single sessions. With our union, we and the nurses had to organize to demand adequate training. Once word started to get out that the hospitals weren't really complying, they had no choice but to comply. Still dragging their heels, though. HIV and Ebola are two different things. So the virus is still present in the blood but it can't disease the body? Does that mean it can still infect others via blood transfer? HIV doesn't have a long half life outside of cells so these various bnAbs and synthetic eCD4-Igs neutralize the virus long enough to clear them from the blood by opsonization. It seems like the more-deadly the less shelf-life viruses like HIV and Ebola have.  I count this as a blessing.

Now Hep-A.  My understanding is that shit can stay around on a counter top for days just waiting for you to come say "HI!" to it....... As a prime example: The current Frozen Berry situation in Australia Well, it can't reproduce, and if I understand it correctly, the virus is immobilised by the protein. So it would seem that (at face value) it probably wouldn't.

 It is not immobilized. It binds to the CD4 and CCR5 receptors usually found in cell membrane; since they are binding the antibody fragment and not a real cell, the virions are unable to enter cells and cause infection and will eventually be cleared from the body. Good question, I would like to see this research continue and clarified a bit on what is happening. Sure, but combine with current HAART therapy, and give for a period longer than replication cycle, and it COULD be curative. Still very early, have to wait for Phase 3 before we'll really get a good idea. Why do you think this would be curative? 

HIV integrates into the genome. Nothing about this drug would cause cure without killing all the infected cells.  Granted, but if newly created cells are protected before the virus has a chance to infect them as well, then the patient has to "wait out" the infection until the contaminated cells die. It wouldn't be a fool-proof process (not by a long shot, depending on the severity of the infection in-and-of-itself) but it allows the body the ability to generate new cells that are protected against infection, and denies the virus the ability to use those cells to keep on growing in the body... Unfortunately, this [article](http://www.nature.com/nrmicro/journal/v9/n5/full/nrmicro2564.html) would suggest that's not a viable option. (Stem cells don't "die off")

Irradiation (to kill HSCs), coupled with HAART, coupled with bone marrow transplant from a healthy donor, coupled with this therapy could potentially work. There was a man cured of HIV because he recieved a bone marrow transplant from a donor who was immune to HIV. This therapy could be used in a similar way without needing an HIV immune donor. Well if it's being tested on monkeys it's obviously not ready for humans, but all in all, this is incredible and a testament to how far biochemistry has come. People should be enthusiastic about these things and how they will effect the world 5-15 years from now, not tomorrow. It works in monkeys. We don't know for sure if it works for humans and there might be side effects. [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] Likely the monkeys are under anesthetic when they are being injected. And also likely the scientist is wearing gobs of protection. People who work with HIV have to wear some crazy outfits. 

http://www.cdc.gov/niosh/npptl/topics/protectiveclothing/ Oh man, that page has so much good information, but it's really early in the morning and I was hoping for more pictures. Plus, HIV isn't as contagious as we think.  Needle sharing for drugs has a 0.67% infection rate (per incident) and percutaneous needle sticks have an infection rate of 0.30% (of course those needles aren't usually full of HIV).  [Source](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/HIV/AIDS#Transmission)

You obviously don't want to be stabbed with HIV, but if you are as long as the monkey doesn't push the plunger, you'll likely be okay. They would be dosing them through a port of an IV line with a non-needle application on the syringe. They sedate them first. [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] Hopefully we'll eventually be able to computer-simulate the drugs and the bodies expected response. By that point you could just as well live as an immortal data block inside your computer and forget about all diseases. (though the new problem might be malware) Pretty sure we can conceivably get to simulating the immune system before enacting the entire singularity.  A human consciousness downloaded into a computer would probably be pretty immune to malware. If you have the ability to rewrite your own code, any problems could be fixed pretty quickly. [deleted] Reddit, explain to me why this isn't the grand panacea and I shouldn't get my  hopes up! One problem I see is that this is mainly to stop the virus from infecting any more cells. Already infected cells will of course stay infected. The monkeys were only saved because they have been genetically modified to express the molecule themselves, you can't do that with humans.
Also I am not sure about how fast the virus may adapt in mutations to this drug. It could be that this drug attached itself outside of the hotspots of viral mutation, but it still might lead to a slow selection of HIV variants that bind this less likely.

edit: just to avoid more people telling me, I have been told numerous time that the researchers actually used an AAV system to make the monkeys express their engineered molecule, which is also a possible strategy for human treatment, but also still in the early stages due to complications in some studies. also super expensive still. &gt; you can't do that with humans.

...yes you can. These monkeys were injected with adeno-associated virus (aav) into their muscles to express this antibody. AAV is a non-pathogenic virus that when designed as a delivery vector has a much reduced chance to integrate (wild type aav has a site specific integration point at chromosome 19, I believe, it's early). Although gene therapy treatment is still massively lagging behind mass acceptance, due to the death of Jesse gelsinger because a mistake by researchers, and issues with leukemic development in ADA-SCID patients, this treatment is totally viable. The issue would be, first cost. The one accepted AAV drug on the market, glybera, only licensed in the EU, costs $1.6 million for a one time dose.

Now, cost aside, the other issue is that HIV can use two Co-receptors for integration - ccr5 and cxcr4. Now, I've seen that ~50% off AIDS patients are ccr5 tropic, but if the virus mutated it could use the cxcr4 receptors. Blocking this receptor is more difficult since it is integral for hematopoetic stem cells. Also, this treatment only targets circulating virus, but latently infected cells, such as hematopoetic stem cells that aren't cycling wouldn't produce the virus and you would still have long-lived cells in your body. So this would serve as a functional cure, but not a sterilizing cure.

So, this idea is a good approach although it does have potential limitations.

Edits: early morning pre-shower and coffee grammar errors. If we mass accepted gene-therapy i would be SOO happy! I would too, since that is gonna be my career field. haha Which firms are leaders in gene therapy space? I would like to follow the industry more closely. Thanks At this point it's still largely in academia... Universities do the groundwork and start phase I trials; usually phase I success means they'll look for corporate partnerships with big pharma. I'm sure there are some small biotech companies doing gene therapy too, but I don't know any off the top of my head.

In terms of big centers for gene therapy in the US, UPenn is the big one. I go here, so I'm biased, but it is home to Jim Wilson (the leader of the study that killed Jesse Gelsinger; he obviously screwed up there but still does great basic science), Jean Bennett (developed AAV therapy for a rare form of blindness; likely to be the first gene therapy to be FDA approved in the USA); Carl June (chimeric antigen receptors, gene therapy for leukemia), Kathy High (AAV for hemophilia B) - all of whom have made pretty astonishing progress in the field. Penn has also partnered with pharma company Novartis to further develop the CAR T cell technology for cancer therapy.

I'm obviously not as knowledgeable on other places, but off the top of my head, Baylor College of Medicine, University of Washington (Fred Hutch), and Memorial Sloan Kettering are the big ones. I'm sure there are others, but I know a lot less outside of my field (CARs/cancer immunotherapy). &gt; develop the CAR **T cell** technology for cancer therapy

uh-uh Umbrella! Fool me once, shame on you...... For more upcoming drugs using AAV delivery check out [avalanche biotech's](http://www.avalanchebiotech.com/the-ocular-biofactory.php) ocular biofactory platform, as well as [spark's](http://www.sparktx.com/) AAV drugs in clinical trials. It's pretty cool stuff, and gene therapy in the eye is moving along quite rapidly. haha, that is actually what I'm doing my Ph.D. research on - AAV occular gene therapy. I hadn't heard of those sites, so thanks for the info. &gt; The issue would be, first cost. The one accepted AAV drug on the market, glybera, only licensed in the EU, costs $1.6 million for a one time dose.

Well, most of that cost is non-recurring. If this turned out to be safe and effective, then we'd make it en masse and the cost-per-dose would reduce *dramatically*. It's not like the material cost-per-dose would be particularly huge. Well yes, that is the issue though. The governments and regulatory agencies need to approve such drugs and as more gene therapy applications were developed it would be reduced. Right now it is almost cost-prohibitive, but the evidence is showing that after initial stumblings with gene therapy applications that we are identifying ways to make them much safer. AAV gene therapy researcher here. The cost to actually make a dose for a human is probably only a few thousand dollars plus labor, so that price tag is mainly to recoup costs that went into the research.


That said, mass-producing AAV vector is not easy. It takes my lab about 2 weeks to make and quantify enough vector to give a low dose to 3kg of animals. Each vector prep efficiency varies dramatically as well, so sometimes it takes multiple preps just to treat a small animal. A lot of the work could probably be mechanized to make mass production possible, but the disposable materials going into the preps would still keep the price up to the thousands, especially since human vectors can't be made using any animal products.

AAV also takes a lot of physical space to grow in cell monolayers, so you would need a pretty huge facility to produce large quantities, and it would all have to be totally sterile or your cells die and the preps are no good. Also you have to consider the cost of a vaccine in comparison to the cost of treating the 35 million people with AIDS and the and 2-3 million people newly infected with HIV each year for the rest of their lives. If the treatment is eventually approved, the cost-benefit should be a slam dunk.  &gt; The monkeys were only saved because they have been genetically modified to express the molecule themselves, you can't do that with humans.

Why not? Is it because it can only be done in vitro? Because we don't dare to go there yet. We've been there several times actually.  The outcome is [not always predictable](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/14567964). "Approximately 18 h. following gene transfer the subject was noted to have altered mental status and jaundice--clinical signs not seen in any of the first 17 subjects in this study. 

Subsequently, his clinical course was marked by systemic inflammatory response syndrome, biochemically detectable disseminated intravascular coagulation, and multiple organ system failure, leading to death 98 h following gene transfer."

For the lazy.

He was the 18th person in the trial.

17 people went before him no problem. The 17 that went before weren't exactly "no problem."

http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jesse_Gelsinger

&gt;Failure by the university to report that two patients had experienced serious side effects from the gene therapy;

Scientific misconduct aside, your immune system's job is to know your body and attack anything that it doesn't recognize.  It's really good at that job in most cases, and it executes its task with the ruthlessness of a machine.  Consequently, when you do something like changing your cells' DNA, it changes the way they look to your immune system.  It *could* be a benign change, but it could also be horrendously fatal.  I suppose it depends on your quality of life as to whether worth the risk or not. For the lazy, the dude shouldnt have been included anyway and the scientist had money on the line:

"FDA investigation concluded that the scientists involved in the trial, including the co-investigator Dr. James M. Wilson (Director of the Institute for Human Gene Therapy), broke several rules of conduct:

Inclusion of Gelsinger as a substitute for another volunteer who dropped out, despite Gelsinger's having high ammonia levels that should have led to his exclusion from the trial;

Failure by the university to report that two patients had experienced serious side effects from the gene therapy;

Failure to disclose, in the informed-consent documentation, the deaths of monkeys given a similar treatment.

The University of Pennsylvania later issued a rebuttal, but paid the parents an undisclosed amount in settlement. Both Wilson and the University are reported to have had financial stakes in the research. So for the even more lazy:

1. It's experimental, don't trust it. Yet.
2. Scientists are human. [deleted] [deleted] 5.6% chance of horrible death.
11% chance of bad side effects that won't kill you.
83.4% chance of curing an incurable condition (Diabeties, Multiple Sclerosis, ALS, etc).

Those are better odds than some of the conditions they are trying to treat with it. eli5? An 18 year old participated in a study to examine whether or not gene therapy was a possible treatment for his condition. After being injected with the virus meant to inject the genes, he suffered a horrible death. Specifically, massive organ failure occurred as well as severe blood clotting within veins and arteries. He suffered. A lot. I always hear that organ failure is painful, why is that? How painful? What causes the pain? What it is similar to? Is it all over the body? Is it localized? What kind of pain? That's a good question.  Have you ever been punched in the kidney?  Liver?  Kicked in the balls?  Had really bad gas cramps?  Appendicitis?  That's all organ pain.  So I guess imagine all of those happening at once, plus a few more.  Probably feels like a monkey knife fight inside you, plus fire. Been kicked in the balls. I think that with any comparable pain is too much. Thanks for the explanation. My bad, I actually understood that part. I just didn't know gene therapy was a thing. What is it about? You inject a virus or something on a patient, and that virus modifies his DNA all around every single cell on the body? We actually reprogram someone? If that is true, wouldn't that mean we are able to, for example, turn a white person black, or a short person big, or a man into a woman, etc.??? You aren't changing their DNA; viral vectors deliver a payload, a plasmid, i.e. a ring of DNA rather than a chromosome. This plasmid contains a transcription origin point which means the host will transcribe it and make proteins based off of the DNA, which is what makes stuff happen.

But tldr: viral transfection doesn't rewrite DNA, only inserts it. Still, I wouldn't mind having some skeletal-muscle-specific myostatin inserted... A virus was used to deliver new genes in a patient. His blood coagulated inside of him,  his organs began shutting down, and he developed an "altered" mental state. It took him a 100 hours to die.
 Experimental gene therapy shut his body down and turned his blood into goop while it was still in him. This is extremely ELI5'd. That sounds like the worst thing ever. Fuck that.  [deleted] Reminds me of the Japanese patient flooded with radiation who managed to live for weeks. His flesh was falling off and they still insisted on reviving him only to suffer for another few weeks in one of the most painful deaths in history. Yeah Japanese Medicine is in a total opposite view from the Dutch one. It's a total clash of Quantity vs Quality of life.

http://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2014-09-15/how-a-dying-grandmother-shaped-japan-s-end-of-life-debate
Vs 
http://www.dignitas.ch/index.php?lang=en http://www.cancer.gov/cancertopics/research-updates/2013/CAR-T-Cells

 Also while the physiological makeup between humans and monkeys may be *similar* those small differences could have a huge impact on how the molecule functions in a human. As with everything, especially in the scientific world, the devil really is in the details. Wow that really puts in into perspective, thanks!  We've gone there. It has a body count. Genetically modifying humans is pretty limited, and the downsides and success rate are awful. No, ethics. People are already throwing a fit to use embryonic stem cells in some countries, even "just" for research. Genetically modifying human embryos is on a whole other level.

edit: Oh, also side note: it may work in monkeys, but that doesn't mean it is a foolproof method with no problems. When you do experiments that is a risk you calculate, animals are there for the experiments. But for a human the standard is a bit different of course. Someone had a good question for you but it got deleted:

&gt;how do you test this on a human? "so dude, we gonna inject you some HIV, but this vaccine probably will keep you safe and sound.".
&gt;
&gt;Or do you just use old people?

The best answer is to use high-risk populations. It's done all the time with HIV/AIDS because there are still so many putting themselves at risk every day. Hookers won't stop hooking any time soon, MSM, IV drug addicts. Lots of people are not interested/not able to stop experimenting on themselves... all the investigators do is join the experiment already in progress. Is there precedent for HIV/STD drug studies (involving pharmacological interventions previously untested in humans) using prostitutes? That's not my field, but a bunch of ethical red flags went up even trying to imagine how that would go down. I believe that genetic modification will become commonplace sooner or later, because, as far as the eradication of illnesses is concerned, it is directly linked to our need for survival, which is very powerful indeed. Embryonic stem cells are nothing but a bad excuse, they are (or will soon be) obsolete as evident by the work of the 2012 Nobel prize winners in medicine. &gt; Embryonic stem cells are nothing but a bad excuse

Your comment could be made about most things in the history of science. [deleted] because you are getting older. 

I'm only 26 but I can feel the passage of time quickening. I think its probably related to the fact that when i was 16 a year was 1/16th of my life. Now its only 1/26th. So it just seems that much shorter. 

Also the mundane nature of every day life and fixed work schedule doesn't help either.  Remember when summer vacations felt like years? I had to fill out a form today and sort myself into an age span of 31 - 40.... I too feel like it is 2012. Patient derived IPSCs are much more relevant in a disease-based research setting. ESCs are much more relevant to therapeutic applications. [deleted] I mean...I guess we could genetically modify every human fetus on earth to permanently stop HIV. 

Genetic modification of adults isn't really a thing yet. Actually, it totally is.  They are genetically modified using a virus, which modifies some clustered batches of cells at the "infection" site.  Since they are producing s protein that will flow through the bloodstream, you don't have to modify the whole animal, just enough to get the supply going.

The genetically modified adult monkeys for this trail.  They could do it to humans too. This only works for certain things.

For instance, preventing the synthesis of a certain protein during some process would be nearly impossible if that protein is synthesized in every cell.

I suppose your method only works with the production of proteins inside of a certain region of cells, which would be good for things like HIV. 

Also, unless the gametic genes are somehow modified, the trait wouldn't pass on and the operation would have to be done for every human. &gt;This only works for certain things.
For instance, preventing the synthesis of a certain protein during some process would be nearly impossible if that protein is synthesized in every cell.

Absolutely.  You would need a really strong systemic virus to even come close, and even then if the change bestowed an adaptive disadvantage, the non-modified cells would be more likely to parent replacement cells over time.  This would basically never be an option until entirely unimagined methods are developed.

If you need to supress a certain cell process that is specific to a particular physcial location (say, a given protein's prduction in the lungs to prevent a chronic, genetic breathing disorder) you could probably accomplish that farily well with an inhaler.  Not so much for blood chemistry.

&gt;I suppose your method only works with the production of proteins inside of a certain region of cells, which would be good for things like HIV.

That's the thought.  Good for making things, less good for suppressing things.

&gt;Also, unless the gametic genes are somehow modified, the trait wouldn't pass on and the operation would have to be done for every human.

I would consider this a feature, not a bug.  We don't want to be in the business of modifying the germ line until we've had several generations of gene therapy go off without a hitch.  We don't want to permanently disable family lines with one mistake. Yes, but you can never control where the virus is integrating into the genome. It could hit a tumor suppressor gene and make that inactive. Then you might end up with cancer of all sorts so the immunity against HIV wouldn't really be that great. They used an AAV vector, not a retroviral vector. AAV vectors don't integrate, and don't cause cancer. They have other issues, but in terms of safety it's probably the best gene therapy approach out there. AAV vectors do randomly integrate, but at a very low frequency. It does still pose a risk if it were placed into humans, but how much of a risk it poses If we were to use it as a vaccine, we still don't know. Fair enough. Though I get the impression that integration in the absence of *rep* and *cap* is at a frequency comparable to the amount of integration you'd see for just any random bit of DNA introduced into a cell. Which would be more of a problem for gene therapy as a whole, rather than AAV in particular. Way safer than even the best retroviral vectors, anyway. And I say this as a great lover of retroviruses. Right, without that integration machinery it's certainly not too efficient. My main concern though, is that since they're using vDNA containing CD4-like regions, it may have homology with genomic DNA, and increase crossover frequency in that manner. If any of the other parts of the vDNA share sufficient homology with the genomic DNA, that could further complicate things. If there is sufficient homology, the fact that the vDNA is mainted as episomal concatemers further complicates things, since multiple copies of the same sequence will only serve to increase crossover frequency as well.

Then again, I'm not too familiar with the construct they're using so my fears may be unfounded! Why doesn't every virus you're in contact with on a daily basis cause cancer of all sorts?

It's a regular viral exposure that is exactly as dangerous as the countless virus exposures you have daily.  I won't even try to argue that you're wrong about your assertion (I'm not sure that you're right, but it doesn't much matter), because the danger of a viral attack containing non-viral DNA causing cancer because of a transcription error is the same as the risk of any virus causing cancer at any time, the many times each day you are exposed to one. Sometimes regular viral exposure does lead to cancer (e.g. HPV), and some researchers have proposed that many cancers might have an associated virus we simply haven't discovered yet. That used to be a problem when we used retoviruses, but now we use AAVs that don't have that problem.

The last time I read about a major failure of genetic engineering was when the cancer they were treating died too fast and the liver couldn't filter out all the dead cell waste. Where can I read about this failed case you mention (liver bombarded with dead cell waste from cancer treatment)?  How long would those infected cells live? Will they reproduce and make more infected cells or can you take it for a year and have all the infected cells die. Potentially years. If HIV infects a hematopoetic stem cell, the cells responsible for production of all your blood cells. How you ask if they are producing all your blood cells? 

Is because only a number are actively dividing. If a non-diving (quiescent) cell is infected the virus may lie dormant for years. Also, since this treatment is designed to bind to circulating HIV molecules any long lived cells with infections won't be eliminated. &gt; One problem I see is that this is mainly to stop the virus from infecting any more cells. Already infected cells will of course stay infected.

Is that different from how vaccines normally function? Yes, but depends on the virus. You see, HIV is a retrovirus that is able to integrate into the genome of your cells. From there it can be replicated essentially indefinitely, if the virus doesn't strain the cell too much or if the immune system doesn't find out about it (both complex mechanisms). This also means, once these cells divide, the genome of the virus integrated into your cells genome will also be copied into the new cell, which is then "infected" right from the start. So in order to really get rid of the virus you'd have to eliminate all cells ever infected with it. Which is actually not really necessary, as long as only few cells are infected and your immune system can handle the resulting virus production. But still not an optimal situation, because every now and then your immune system might get compromised and weakened, and then an infection like this might fire up again to a point where your immune system can't help you anymore.

For other viruses that don't integrate into the cells genome it is much simpler. Vaccines work very well for that, because the particles can be recognized from the start by the immune system. Basically gives your immune system a better start to fight the infection. Even if they infect a cell, they won't be able to keep production up indefinitely and more important they will never get to be copied into a new cell after cell division. If everything works out etc. it theoretically works out fine. It would provide what is called a functional cure - someone with HIV who is genetically modified to express this will no longer have circulating HIV (thus won't be infectious or need to take drugs to control it) but will have dormant HIV in reservoirs.  There are already gene therapies out there where a patient gets infected with whatever gene they are lacking. We definitely know how to introduce genes into mature animals and humans. That is what they did with the monkeys after all. They injected the virus with the antibody gene into the muscle. I have heard that infecting animals with genes is even easier if you use an HIV shell as a vector because they easily infect. Maybe HIV will just evolve a way around this molecule, and it looks like it's probably a lot harder to design a new one than to make a new antibody. Except this molecule is a fusion protein, so it's actually really easy to make a new one.  In fact, it's orders of magnitude easier to make a new one of these proteins than it is to design a new small molecule.  Further, it's a fusion protein of the exact proteins in your body.  So if HIV mutates away from binding these (human) receptors, it will therefore become less virulent (to humans).  Therefore, most mutations that mutate away the drug's efficacy should also mutate it away from its own potency. It seems like when we find things that significantly alter the immune response (thinking Xolair), the result can be cancer. 

It's a great study and an interesting line of research, but they're right - a LOT more monkeys before this is mainstream. The only new thing about this is a delivery method. As in, antibodies that make you immune to the HIV are already known and can be used even today. They are quite expensive though and be out of your system in a matter of weeks, but otherwise they do work. If you injected with this kind of antibodies, your are immune to HIV for a week. That's been known for a while, so nothing new here.

So basically they combined two new things that were known to exist and kind of used to for anti-HIV purposes. I mean, we'll see if it works in humans, but my guess is that human immune system will be fighting the virus pretty hard and the virus won't be able to produce high enough titers of the protein. But again, we'll see....They do say that they have created by far the best antibody against HIV, so may be you won't need super high concentrations. Also I think some people are already immune to delivery virus and won't be able to use this...

It's a very nice paper though.  [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] This is /r/science its heavily moderated... So most likely all deleted posts were jokes or cheap puns.... Nothing lost there I'm actually extremely appreciative of how serious the mods are here. When I first started redditing I would come on here and try to shit the place up with jokes. But now I get it.  Not trying to be a pedant, but shouldn't it be SIV for monkeys or did they actually infect monkeys with HIV? The Nature paper says they tested SHIV (a mix of SIV and HIV) on the monkeys, but the in vitro work was HIV, and they seem to feel confident drawing conclusions about that (and the reviewers let them). Especially since the control group was given the same stuff and got infected. Sorry but what is "vitro" work?  "in vitro" refers to an experiment that takes place "in flask", that is to say, outside of an organism. "in vivo" refers to an experiment that takes place within the organism.  Actually I think "in vitro" translates to "in glass", not "in flask". For the above commenter, the idea is for example to put cells (bacteria, yeast, or cells taken from an animal) into a dish ("glass", or plastic more likely) and have them grow and behave in that small, easily manipulable environment. You can control what nutrients they get, their temperature, oxygen levels, etc. to a degree that's impossible in a whole animal. From ["Monkeying around with HIV vaccines: using rhesus macaques to define 'gatekeepers' for clinical trials"](http://www.nature.com/nri/journal/v9/n10/full/nri2636.html#B10):

&gt;... the focus has shifted to viral surrogates of HIV, simian immunodeficiency viruses (SIVs), for which infection in natural non-human primate hosts, such as sooty mangabeys and African green monkeys, is generally non-pathogenic^9, ^10, but experimental infection of non-natural hosts, such as Asian monkey species, including rhesus macaques (Macaca mulatta), results in the development of disease similar to that described in patients with AIDS (simian AIDS)^11.

^9 Silvestri, G. et al. Nonpathogenic SIV infection of sooty mangabeys is characterized by limited bystander immunopathology despite chronic high-level viremia. Immunity 18, 441452 (2003).

^10 Paiardini, M., Frank, I., Pandrea, I., Apetrei, C. &amp; Silvestri, G. Mucosal immune dysfunction in AIDS pathogenesis. AIDS Rev. 10, 3646 (2008).

^11 Silvestri, G., Paiardini, M., Pandrea, I., Lederman, M. M. &amp; Sodora, D. L. Understanding the benign nature of SIV infection in natural hosts. J. Clin. Invest. 117, 31483154 (2007).

---

The tl;dr answer to your question is yes. In detail, the researchers did not attempt to vaccinate the Rhesus macaques against HIV-1 infection as usual. Here, they used a (non-HIV) viral vector to get the monkeys' bodies to start making a specific protein (the eCD4-Ig). IOW that protein was not a natural immune response - it was put there with intent. Once the animals were producing the protein, the researchers attempted to infect ('challenged') the animals with live HIV virus (a variant anyways) to see if the eCD4-Ig developed by their immune systems prevented infection. And it did!

The next logical question I suppose would be, why don't we start doing this with all people immediately? It's not really my area but essentially gene therapy which is very tricky. It's inefficient, unpredictable, and has several potentially fatal errors that can happen (like if your immune system reacts very badly to the vector itself, rather than staying quiet and letting the vector do its work). [Wiki has some info.](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Adeno-associated_virus) [Also here is a review from several years ago.](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC2570152/) HIV. SIV is related and highly similar, but genetically distinct from HIV. Although in this paper they used SHIV (sorta a SIV HIV Hybrid) and showed neutralizing immunity to it and to HIV-1. I haven't read the article as I am about to go to work. But chances are they used animal models designed to be suceptible to HIV. As great as this is, what happens to all the monkeys that do get aids?  Sacrificed. They are typically given an anesthetic followed by a lethal injection. It would be neat if they could be funneled into other treatment research. I suppose if you could somehow control for that in your experiment, although that adds a bunch of new variables I would assume. I'm guessing quite a few monkeys that do become infected, they test upcoming HIV drugs or already existing ones to further add information to their existing data. 

 I wouldn't bet on it. Working with animals, particularly "higher mammals" like monkeys, requires a lot of paper work. Even modifying an experiment with mice requires a ton of permissions and red tape (some justified - animal rights and ethics are an important thing). I doubt they can just take AIDS-infected monkeys and try out drugs on them. Too many ethical and legal issues. They'll need to write an entire protocol detailing exactly what they're going to do (and how they're going to handle potential issues). All this after obtaining a grant to even fund the research. They don't allow this for very specific reasons. Firstly it potentially nullifies results from future studies if the animal has been used in an experiment before. Secondly it's triggered by the ethical debate that it's better to spread harm over a larger group of animals than to concentrate it to a few.   I hate to break it to you but as soon as this study reaches a defined end point all of the animals will be euthanised, healthy or not. I'd imagine they have something written into the license for this project that allows them to keep the "healthy" monkey alive for a long time to study potential relapse, but as soon as data stops being taken they have to be euthanised. 
 

A lot of behavioural studies will have a control group of animals injected with just saline to  ensure the observed behaviour isn't caused by trauma from handling/injection, even these animals will be euthanised at the end of the study. Euthanized and incinerated, most likely. [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] Hummm, from what i'm reading here,  i think there's a misconception on the concept of genetically modified monkeys in that cas. They werent actually modified but injected with a self replicant harmless virus that has in its genetic code the schematic for the artificial antibody. And those virus are meant to replicate over and over and over again. Aka, producing the antibody from inside you. So the vector virus is actually the genetically modified thing in order to turn it into a printer of the cure inside your body.

Now, even a patient already infected by HIV would benefit from such a tool. Why ? because HIV is also a self replicant virus that uses our own defensive cells as a benchwork to replicate itself and then blowing it up to dissmeniate its newly created HIV cells. SO in the end, what kills you and actually turns into AIDS it the fact that HIV has destroyed too many of your defensive cells. ( (T4 types which are actually key to your entire immune system) 

Adding to already HIV+ patient that artificial antibody would equal to add a competition to our own T4 cells. From what i understand, the artificial Antibody is made so it is more attractive to HIV so in the end, even for HIV+ patients, it would allow a massive slow down, or even regression of the illness. As our body is constantly producing T4 cells, if somethign is there to prevent HIV from targetting them all the time, pretty much acting as a bait, then you'd see patients go back to perfectly normal T4 cell levels. Which would pretty much mean not being sick at all. Yes you'd still be contagious (and even that remains to be seen) and there are many kinks to rule out, and many testings to be done, but overall it's a very possible solution.

It doesnt kill the virus out of your body. it just traps it. And you can use it at any age as the genetically modified part of it is actually the inoffensive virus that will function in you as a printing machine for the artificial antibody.

Hope i made it simple enough. French here so excuse any error in language.
 [deleted] We need to do a lot more monkey studies to see if theres anything weird, One of my new favorite quotes. Why does it seem that every discovery involving the human body, and medicine is never heard of again after its first mentioned? I understand that a lot of testing is still required before it's approved, but it seems like I never here of it again. TLDR why does nothing get approved? Things do get approved.  See the [FDA approval list](http://www.fda.gov/BiologicsBloodVaccines/DevelopmentApprovalProcess/BiologicalApprovalsbyYear/ucm385847.htm).  It's happening.  It certainly is difficult to go from the academic lab into, through the government's FDA, and into production.  But that's for your safety too.  

This type of new drug is interesting because it's not a 'small molecule', but rather a 'synthetic protein'.  In that way, it's demonstrating an entire new style of treating diseases.  Many new drugs are of this kind, rather than the traditional 'small molecule'.  This is just another demonstration of their progress. The process to take a treatment from some academic's brain to widespread use on patients is incredibly long and full of failure points.  Treatments that work in labs don't necessarily work in animals.  Treatments that work in animals don't necessarily work in humans.  Treatments that work in humans aren't always able to be mass produced in a cost effective way.

This drug might get approved by the FDA for clinical trials based on these results.  First, you test the drug on a small number of healthy people to see what kind of side effects you get.  If you don't see anything too serious then you move on to testing effectiveness in sick patients.  If you still don't see any serious side effects and the drug shows effectiveness in sick humans, then you move on to large scale human trials (thousands of patients).  If your large scale trials are successful then you can submit a final application to the FDA.  The FDA's goal is to act on at least 90% of applications within 10 months (6 months for priority drugs).

The FDA is involved at every single step in this process and the clinical trials themselves can take years.  Most of the drugs you hear about being successful in animals never make it to the New Drug Application (NDA) phase. There are really 2 reasons why:

1.) The article/announcement is premature and largely based around a small test group and hype that when done on a large scale, lacks the same merit that it had on the smaller test group due to sampling error/test group size/randomness/chance.

2.) Big Pharma likes to buy up patents for certain medications and then just never produce them, leaving the patent on their shelf so nobody else can for the next (10-15ish years) [I forgot what the law says]. Though largely looked at more of a conspiracy theory, there are TONS of medical patents that are bought by these large corporations and just shelved. Some say because they make more money treating you then curing you, others say so they can further test it, etc.

Basically, in the end, anything medical, for it to show merit, takes tens of years of nonstop scrutiny, testing and use. Click-baiting is sadly the way of the internet due to ad revenue, so most of the time these are just a case of #1. Every once and a while, it is a case of #2, but that is for you to look at the facts and decide.


edit: a couple words Is this legit, it sounds pretty groundbreaking. Yes but it doesn't treat or cure those of us who already have it :(. This disease is awful Should be noted: HIV is HUMAN immunodeficiency virus, the monkey version is SIV (Simian immunodeficiency virus). The conclusion is still totally legit, since SIV and HIV are very very genetically similar, but it's just something to consider when interpreting the results. Dies this mean it can be made into a vaccine?  It's not a vaccine (a way to build your own immune system against HIV), but rather a way to prevent the virus from spreading. 

Imagine HIV has two docking clamps that it uses to clamp onto a human's cells.  And those clamps clamp onto certain parts of your cell that are required for your cells to work.  This is kind of like a partial version of *just* those parts that HIV docks to. And if you flood the system with those fake parts, HIV binds to them rather than your cell's parts.  In that way, HIV thinks its gotten its attack to work, but instead it just attacked a dummy. Protection from HIV infection in humans already exists, and it is very effective if taken properly. It's called PrEP.

Link to the CDC page: http://www.cdc.gov/hiv/prevention/research/prep/ Sure if you want to destroy your liver and/or deal with some of the side effects. ....you're a moron.  What convincing evidence you have! Except the liver issues are real as are possible side effects which is why you are required to have regular checkups with a doctor when prescribed to check function. Your liver and everything else will be fine unless you have some other complication like hemochromatosis or something. Even then it isn't contraindicated.  idk The Truvada folks mentioned it as did the ARC person when I got tested. Plus it hasn't been studied as long. I would think it's not good on it at all - like taking Tylenol or Advil all the time. It'd be a nice peace of mind to just take it considering how much I worry, but I don't trust it...and of course there's the big pricing issue. They probably have to mention it for legal reasons. I work in a practice that specializes in infectious diseases; and especially HIV. They monitor: AST/ALT, Albumin, Billirubin. That's it. The numbers never get out of whack unless there is another underlining issue. 

Insurance is covering the cost more and more frequently. There is even a cure for Hep C that costs about $200,000 that is being covered now. I know what I am talking about.  Good to know. Although I still think a vaccine is better than a pill you have to take constantly (and without forgetting), but that's promising.  That's cool and all, but that is a pill that must be taken EVERYDAY. This study opens up the opportunity for a single use retro-viral vaccine that will prevent HIV indefinitely. My remicade is a medicine which has an antibody bred in mice which is essentially a replacement antibody for my immune system. Infleximab is the drug name. If it's HIV in monkeys, isn't it supposed to be PIV? The monkey version in the wild is actually called SIV, Simian Immunodeficiency Virus. But in this study they are using an SIV/HIV hybrid that responds to vaccines/antivirals like HIV would in a human. My suspicion from reading the CDC position statement is that they declared it as being eradicated in the human population in the 1980's. It is true that there has not been a single case since 1977 but small pox can be transmitted via insects and animals. So if the CDC verifies that it has been eradicated throughout the biosphere then it is eradicated otherwise it is only been stopped from reoccurring in the human population. Then again semantics can be argued till the cows come home. [deleted] Why do we hear so much about this but nothing seems to change. AIDS and Cancer still kill a whole lot of people :( Yet there are always break through studies.. Mostly because long term effects need to be studied before artificial compounds can be tested on humans. Also, a lack of funding diminishes the time frames that these results can be analyzed. This! I want to know why this is the case as well. It always baffles me how it takes like 4-5 years some times to test a drug. Like come on scientists, let's pump that drug into a thousand monkeys in 2 months, watch them for 4 months, then pump it into a few thousand humans, watch for 3 months, then bam! Shoot up everybody in sight with your magic medicine. But we need that money on killing and spying. So, this would protect against infection of new cells but not fight infection in cells already infected. Isn't this effectively a cure, since all of the cells in the body are replenished over time? &gt; Isn't this effectively a cure, since all of the cells in the body are replenished over time?

Here's the problem. 

Some viruses are capable of actually *integrating* their genetic code (DNA or RNA) into the host cell's DNA. 

When that cell reproduces via mitosis or miosis, it keeps all of that genetic code the same (barring any mutations) for the resulting daughter cells. And currently, there's no way of removing that code. 

What this treatment does is it tricks the virus into latching on to the molecules and not any host cells. So, if the recipient of the treatment *has not already been infected*, the virus will be destroyed within the bloodstream and no infection will take place. But otherwise...the genetic coding is with the patient. Which, by the way, is no longer a death sentence or even a severe infection; current HIV medications not only render the bloodstream a lethal environment for HIV (thus completely removing its ability to induce AIDS) but actually, when taken properly, make it almost impossible to transmit the disease via sexual contact. Super-human immune systems sounds amazing. Lets get THAT into the general population ASAP. 

Then, lets do more in-depth genetic engineering to improve the human race beyond what evolution could ever accomplish. 

Come on Science, please make my fiction our reality. And I got trolled but no serious replies to my thoughts on designer blood post, http://www.reddit.com/r/AskReddit/comments/2vt1sh/serious_if_someday_designer_blood_blood_is/

But this just confirms that we are headed for blood (lack of a better word), that will be man made that I call designer blood and may be a big industry someday. There was a story I read about how HIV strains were mutating and getting stronger which means it didn't have to increase itself in numbers (viral load) and not having to kill its host. by becoming stronger it no longer needed to kill people by destroying cell structures which end up causing a low white count or cancer or other various things.  [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] Interestingly enough, one of the listed authors - Camilla L. Lisanti - is an eight-year-old girl! 

She's the one who first had the idea of treating cancer patients with antibiotics *http://www.eurekalert.org/pub_releases/2015-01/uom-scp012715.php

*http://www.sciencedaily.com/releases/2015/01/150128081957.htm

Also, this study was done *in vitro* only; they'll need *in vivo* studies, and then clinical studies before to know for sure if/how well it's working.

*Mirror - PDF (full txt) https://drive.google.com/file/d/0B1TQLsXk1Yz3NzlrRDlpREp5aTQ/view?usp=sharing - in case the site is going down. In a nutshell, what's different between the mitochondria of cancer cells vs normal cells? I don't have expertise on the subject. The idea is that these types of antibiotics would kill specifically those cells with huge mitochondrial activity: cancer cells in the first place, but also other stem cells in the body (that's how Chloramphenicol causes bone marrow suppression, for example) with similar mitochondrial activity. I'm envisioning serious side effects, but maybe not quite as serious as dying of cancer. That's precisely the point for most of the cancer treatments nowadays. Well, I don't think it's really *the point* so much as it is simply a fact, but I get what you're saying. No it really is, almost all cancer treatments are 100% lethal if you keep them up long enough. The point is to kill everything that is growing, and hope more of that is cancer than patient.
 that's the bleakest thing I've read in a while. :( It's a lot less bleak than us being able to do nothing and just watch people die... aka [the alternative medicinal approach to cancer.](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Steve_Jobs#Death)

EDIT: I am so sad to hear of the stories below. I really think, like most things, anti-western approaches to cancer treatment come from an ignorance of what the disease actually is. People think that cancer is some unnatural result of our modern world (which in some cases, and some ways, is true). But cancer has existed as long as there has been biological organisms. Cancer is an extremely *natural* disease. It is our own body, our own cells essentially getting bad instructions or confused signals and thus grow in ways that damage the functional and important parts of our body through inflammation or the blockage of important functions. It is a change of the cell types, and thus losing their proper function. Everybody gets cancer all the time, it's just that our body is prepared (999 times out of a 1000) to catch it and deal with it without our knowing or intervention. It's just that sometimes, in some people, with some bad luck things get out of hand... and the cancer grows too powerfully to be stopped by the body's immune system alone. The cancerous cells break off and get into the bloodstream or lymph stream and spread to the rest of the body (metastasis, stage 4 cancers) and spread all over the body to grow in places they shouldn't, further causing countless problems until we die.

Understanding all this allows one to fully understand how and why we western doctors use the drugs/chemo/radiation therapies we use. Antibiotics have little side effects because they can specifically target things in bacteria that do not even exist in the human body, because we are evolutionarily so different. But cancers are our OWN cells... so how can you design a drug to kill a cancer cell that doesn't kill the rest of our good cells? That's the challenge of the oncologist, and all the pharmaceutical researchers who spend their entire careers trying to come up with better and more specific treatments. And you know what? They've been incredibly successful in the last half a century. Drugs *are* becoming more specific, more targeted to individual cancer types. We're a long way from having side-effect-free cancer treatments (and honestly, that's probably never a possibility given the nature of the disease), but we've made great strides. Cancers that used to kill 80-90% of people who got them, are being caught earlier with good screening in high-risk populations and are being treated successfully. There are many cancers that used to be a death sentence that are not routinely stopped in their tracks. Unfortunately, again, we still have a long way to go, but the future is bright. Medical research needs more funding. And not just the big names like breast cancer, but also prostate cancer and stomach cancer, etc. It *all* deserves funding and smart, passionate people who can creatively come up with new ways to tackle these problems. 

What it *doesn't* need is more ignorance, more disdain for the medical professionals who spend decades studying these things to save people's lives who don't *have* to study any of it in order to receive the benefits of such hard work. We don't need more naturopaths, or acupuncturists, or chiropractors claiming that chemo is "all bad, unnatural poisons", or that they have any kind of treatment that is effective. What are their methods? They don't study shit about cancer, except for traditional quackery not backed by any significant research. (I'm only speaking to their approach to cancer, right now, I'm NOT saying we don't need alternative medicine... don't misquote me or misunderstand me)

/rant As someone who lost a loved one to cancer and is an active member of /r/cancer, you hit the nail on the head.

ESPECIALLY with the alternative approach.  That's a cancer unto the community.  I've sadly known of two cases where people bought into snake oil for the sake of forgoing traditional therapies.  One is dead and one is dying.  And the worst part of it all is that the "doctors" that prescribed the vitamins to combat the deadly cancer are still allowed to peddle their lies. The research into things like fasting and chemotherapy, which is [being carried out within conventional western medicine](http://www.cancer.gov/clinicaltrials/search/view?cdrid=683360&amp;version=HealthProfessional) is pretty interesting and encouraging.

I am not into crystals or woo or Bach Flower fuckery, but it's apparent that there has been an acceleration in the change in dietary and environmental factors over the past century. So I can see why people are tempted to turn to "woo", because they have limited understanding of the actual science and link their (probably rightful) fear of certain toxins with those of chemical substances being used to correct the problem.

I mean Steve Jobs was not a stupid man.  He was a lethally arrogant man. But he did want to live, and he essentially threw his chances down the drain based on nothing, or at least nothing based on any modern science, research, technology, medicine, surgery.
 I've had to defriend a few people for spouting anti cancer treatment propaganda.  Is this becoming a thing? Well, in some cases it's the difference between kids being bereft of their parents when they are a couple of years old, and when they are close to grown up. Welcome to how modern medicine really works. Although some of the newer antibody based therapies are far more precise. It's the difference between modern guided bombs and saturation strategic bombing during the second world war. That's not true, many of the targeted anti-cancer therapies have much lower side effects compared to more traditional chemotherapy modalities. As you said "targeted". They have lower side effects. But the comment you responded to said "almost all cancer treatments", which is true. Most currently available treatments are not "targeted". They are still in research.  Targeted therapies are a gigantic leap forward in cancer treatment, with a whole new generation of drugs being approved in the last 20 so years providing survivorship that was previously unimaginable. I highly recommend reading the book The Philadelphia Chromosome to learn more about this.

Another new form of therapy seeing fast movement through clinical trials (including some recent approvals) are immune-based therapies. Most of these are termed PD-1 or PD-L1 inhibitors, and essentially turn off the cancer cell's resistance to T cell attack. These have seen incredible success currently under development at several large pharmaceutical companies. There are a few of those for lymphoma that are in active use, beyond that you're usually up for radiation and chemo which are both systemically toxic. I guess surgery to remove tumors counts as targeted, so you can call that one a win for not killing everything.
 Lower side effects, yes.  "Targeted" is the reason why your claim will not carry too much weight.  Targeted therapies are going to be the future.  It's taken 20+ years for us to gain the technology to do this, that being genetic testing and sequencing.

The problem with targeted therapies is that they're exclusive to specific proteins within the DNA strand of a cancer cell.  And because one specific type of cancer literally can have hundreds of different DNA sequences, no one targeted therapy will work for them all.  They shrinks the pool of people who can utilize targeted therapies substantially.  Like I said though, as time goes on, this will hopefully change.

For now though, chemo and radiation will sadly the gold standards to fighting this disease. But many of the anti-cancer therapies *are* chemotherapy.  That's true for chemotherapy drugs but not all cancer treatments. Yep. Chemo is quite literally poison, and you're banking on the chemo killing the cancer before either the chemo or the cancer kills you Given that the heart, brain, kidneys and living have very high metabolic activities and these cells in these tissues are chocked full of highly active mitochondria, things might not go so well.

There's a reason why mitochondrial mutations often manifest as neurological problems early in life, especially when one starts tracing anticipation over generations.  &gt; There's a reason why mitochondrial mutations often manifest as neurological problems early in life, especially when one starts tracing anticipation over generations. 

Can you expand on that?

Also wouldn't we have seen these issues with the antibiotics since we're using them already?

I know they have been linked to some disorders already, but we should know what issues could arise. Since mitochondria are heavily involved in neurological activities, and their genetics are passed down without much recombination, you see important warning signs of these neurological diseases even very early in life. This is particularly true if you follow the genetic pathway through multiple generations.

Antibiotics though are very specific in how they work. They are not low specificity toxins by and large, they are used because they interrupt specific proteins or protein structures. And usually, you pick ones that interrupt very critical systems such that the target cell dies.

This is why many antibiotics have very little side effects other than allergic reactions. They're not targeting our cells proteins, but proteins unique to bacteria. This potential approach is taking antibiotics known to kill mitochondrial processes, and giving them in doses such that only very active mitochondrial cells will start dying off.

The problem here is that this isn't much different than other chemo therapies. It still hits very important systems as mentioned above and is likely to have very nasty side effects. First off very few antibiotics affect the mitochondria so that's why it's not a common side effect. For those that do, it's been noticed and some have been banned from being prescribed to children. As for tracing it over generations, i can only assume the op meant that as you look at families with mitochondrial mutations, certain disorders are very prevalent that are almost nonexistent in most families The heart seems to be particularly susceptible to a lot of anti-cancer therapies and is a major limiting factor in the use of many otherwise effective treatments (vemurafenib, doxorubicin etc) This drug just seems like it would end up being a new kind of chemotherapy. I imagine it will cause some serious damage to the liver if it is just targeted at cells with high levels of mitochondrial activity. Can someone help me understand something? Drugs like doxycycline were only apoptotic in cancer stem cell lines, correct? I am curious because inducible gene expression systems (like Tet-Off/Tet-On) used in cancer research for endogenous expression of a peptide frequently utilize doxycycline as an inducer. If one were using this system to express a gene that could transactivate apoptotic genes, could doxycycline itself be contributing to cell death? I would imagine this could be this case if the system were being used for endogenous expression in an inducible cancer stem cell line, but not otherwise. Any ideas? "In the lab, the antibiotics had no harmful effect on normal cells".

This seems to suggest it won't harm healthy cells.  Many of the antibiotics they used are known to have harmful side effects on people. The Tetracycline family is known to cause severe issues with some people's livers. So does chloramphenicol.

Several of the ones they tested are just straight up deadly to people.  [deleted] The tetracyclines are pretty benign antibiotics.  Couldn't that cause serious nerve damage though? Aren't stemcells + neuron cells the one with the highest activity? As many other people have mentioned on here, it is likely beneficial due to the cancer cells' increased reliance upon mitochondrial function compared to normal cells (Marburg effect). 

One antibiotic that is being looked at to block acute myeloid leukemia (AML) cells from growing is tigecycline, since it favors cancer cell mitochondria over normal cell mitochondria. It inhibits mitochondrial production of a specific protein that is up-regulated (ie produced more) in AML cells. Tigecycline is similar to the tetracyclines (tetracycline, doxycycline, minocycline), but is technically in a class of it's own- "glycylcycline". 

There have been many in vitro studies of this effect, see here for one example/discussion: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/22094260

There is currently a phase I clinical trial looking at the use of tige in refractory/relapsed AML: https://clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/show/NCT01332786

A long way from being clinically relevant, as is almost everything on this sub, but it's pretty neat. Science rules!

Source: Pharmacist completing residency training at an academic medical center in the US.

 that's a great question thats being heavily researched.  the pH difference between the rest of the cell and the inside of the mitochondria is different for cancer and normal cells, to start.  This is due to larger reliance on glycolysis vs. oxidative phosphorylation.   Additionally, tumor mitochondria

in cancer stem cells, mitochondria replicate vis mitochondrial biogenesis rather than binary fission.  this class of drugs works to target this to prevent proliferation of cancer stem cells.  Look up the Warburg Effect, it'll give you an idea of different energy profiles between cancer cells and normal cells.  Yea, but that is largely amitochondrial.  Further, this is in CSCs, which are NOT rapidly dividing and theoretically don't need as much energy. I don't know what the difference is, I just read a lot of commenters saying the wrong thing and had to post this. CSCs? Cancer stem cells. 

The (very) basic idea is that there is a population of one to a few cells that are actually responsible for tumorigenesis and that these cells are actually stem cells.  Well, we have had a solid model describing the first part of that statement for a while: one cell acquires several mutations that allow it to rapidly divide when it shouldn't, resist cell death when it shouldn't, and other other sneaky things that ultimately leads to tumor formation.  All of the cells that make up the tumor therefore should be "clones" of the original bad guy (though this isn't the whole story, for the sake of simplicity I'll leave it at that).  

So, conventional therapy involves targeting specific elements of these clones. The most commonly targeted aspect is rapid cell division. But there are many problems with this strategy.  For our purposes, the main problem is that these tumors come back, even if treatment appeared to kill all the clones.  So someone had the bright idea that maybe there was another population of cells in the tumor that wasn't rapidly dividing but could still make a whole tumor in the short time span that we see relapses in these patients.  

But that's a paradox: how can a population of cells that is too small to detect form millions of tumor cells without rapidly dividing? Well, the only thing we know that can do that is a stem cell, which divides asymmetrically.  This means that every time a stem cell divides, it produces one cell identical to itself, and one daughter cell that is different that can go on to eventually become a totally different cell or several totally different cells.  This solves our paradox, as the stem cell does not divide rapidly but the daughter cells can.

The proof for this phenomenon is actually fairly strong.  If we take a solid tumor and pick out the stem cells, these cells can form tumors when injected into a mouse.  In fact, sometimes only 5-10 of these cells are required to form the tumor.  On the other hand, if we take all the cells that are not stem cells and inject them into a mouse, tumors will not form even if we injected 100,000 of these non stem cells.

Make sense?

Full disclosure: I am not a csc guy nor do I fully buy this theory.  The truth, I think, lies somewhere in between the two models I described. Also, Cancer is super general term so what may be true for cancer A may not be true for cancer B. And again, this is incredibly watered down so if you want to know more feel free to ask.   [deleted] Mitochondria contain most of the proteins involved in apoptosis (cell death), cancer cells have these proteins modulated so they can survive. Oversimplified: the mitochondria in a cancer cell have been compromised and so allow the cell to use glucose for fuel, which in turn feeds pathogens. 

In a normal cell the mitochondria - rather like a gatekeeper - are what determine the cell will use oxygen. 

About 100 years ago, Dr. Otto Warburg (Nobel Prize winner) discovered that cancer is anaerobic - it does not like oxygen. When we say that this or that virus can cause cancer we're pointing in the right direction. A virus can normally be destroyed by our immune system using oxygen - first there is detection of the antigen, then the pathogen is surrounded by neutrophils as though it were being eaten by a blob. There is a Russian doll sort of action that comes next - the neutrophil engulfs the invader with hypochlorous acid which in turn releases nascent oxygen, which blows the virus to smithereens by tearing it apart at the electron level. 

This shows why oxygen is death to a cancer cell. If a cell pulls in oxygen as fuel, any indwelling virus will be destroyed and the cell will return to it's normal schedule.

Doing pretty much opposite of what this study suggest is actually a proven therapy.  If you either have brand new mitochondria forming, or if you restore the existing mitochondria to a normal state, a compromised cell will stop using glucose as fuel. Any internal pathogen will then die and the cell will basically return to normal - dying if it was supposed to have died. That is where the interest in therapies involving mitochondrial repair come from. Strange that a lot of this stems from 100 year old studies.

Things that are known to affect mitochondria - 

sodium dichloroacetate repairs mitochondria

pyrroloquinoline quinone causes mitochondrial biogenesis

methyl sulfonyl methane to glutathione; glutathione to mitochondrial biogenesis Was an 8 year old *really* the first person to suggest antibiotics? Seriously? In all of the billions of dollars and decades of research, she's the first? I suspect her "input" was rather massaged up as a PR strategy. It's regrettable that scientists have to resort to publicity tactics, but with the public voting for candidates who may or may not slash their funding or ban stem cell research or whatever else, there is a battle for public opinion that they need to keep trying to win. Also, the little girl seems to be the daughter of the principal investigator of the project. So take that with a grain of salt. The mods here have deleted basically any comment that has dealt with that and there were *many* of them in the first hour or two this was posted. It's ridiculous. Almost to the point where you would think someone here has something to gain from it because garbage like this parent post is usually the one initially deleted.

The girl is used as a promotional tool. Her legitimacy in any actual part of the project is absolutely questionable. And to say that she is the first who had the idea of treating cancer with antibiotics is a straight up fabrication.

 Kid's idea may be a super one, but /u/dangerdark is on point. There's a whole class of cytotoxic agents that are antibiotics such as anthracyclenes, mitomcycin, actinomycin. See wikipedia or any pharmacology textbook like Goodman and Gilman. So no, the kid is nowhere near the first. Doubtless she's cute and lovable and smart, but the idea is not new. Always is with these kinds of things. I hate any child based initiative because its the parents using their kids to push their own agenda.  And this particular principal investigator has a long and storied history of playing fast and loose. &gt; She's the one who first had the idea of treating cancer patients with antibiotics

The first major use of antibiotics to treat cancer was in the [1950's](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Doxorubicin)  I read that and wondered at how unscientific it is to dishonestly attribute something to a (probably very bright) child just because they're a kid that did well.  I think that the articles are reporting this development in oversimplified terms when they say that this is the first time antibiotics are being used to treat cancer, but it does seem like the little girl's "idea" is still somewhat novel. Doxorubicin is an extremely harsh drug that was created for the explicit purpose of treating cancer. The little girl is being credited by her father as being the person that helped him make a link to the idea that we may be able to repurpose common, mild antibiotics used to treat everyday illness to treat cancer instead, which is definitely a new development, as far as I know. Maybe its a bit corny to list her as an author on the paper, but I'm not sure its maliciously dishonest. I'm not about her being listed as an author but bring credited as the first to come up with an idea that was around decades before. I'm sorry, but people have thought about treating cancer with antibiotics since antibiotics existed. Yeah some of they most popular chemo drugs are antibiotics. Doxorubicin comes to mind immediately bleomycin is one that comes to mind.  &gt;Received: December 24, 2014 Accepted: January 15, 2015 Published: January 22, 2015

Is it common in the medical field for an article to be so rapidly accepted?  Normally such a rapid review turnaround would suggest that the review wasn't thorough.

EDIT:  Someone below posted a [link](https://www.quora.com/Although-I-am-highly-skeptical-and-I-suspect-clickbait-is-it-true-that-antibiotics-can-be-used-to-fight-cancer?srid=i4iy&amp;share=1) to experts discussing the claims of the article.  To me it seems like a standard review at a reputable journal should have brought up most of the concerns. It is not uncommon for a Michael P Lisanti paper to have that kind of turnaround, unfortunately.  Care to explain? He has a history of aggressively publishing in journals that he sat on the editorial boards of, Cell Cycle is what I was thinking of at the time. The name Lisanti came right back to me, our group looked at a series of papers he published in 2009-2010.

Here's a perfect example http://www.tandfonline.com/doi/pdf/10.4161/cc.9.11.11848 ( Submitted: 03/18/10; Accepted: 03/22/10). 

Or this one: http://www.tandfonline.com/doi/pdf/10.4161/cc.9.10.11601 (Submitted: 02/19/10; Accepted: 02/23/10)

Or this one: http://www.tandfonline.com/doi/pdf/10.4161/cc.8.23.10238 (Submitted: 10/02/09; Accepted: 10/05/09) Wow, you'd think they'd sit on it for a while just to not draw attention to themselves. Yea, it was (I guess it still is) really bizarre. Like, whatever the criminally duplicitous version of tact is, you'd think he'd have employed some.  &gt;Also, this study was done in vitro only

Why am I not surprised...  Yet! there already is some data - human studies! -  suggesting that antibiotics do indeed have the ability to improve cancer patients' condition. Is just that they didn't really bother to study and to quantify the effect precisely. Also, this would apply to cancer STEM CELLS only, it won't replace chemo/radiotherapy (but should improve survival).


*Edit to add: http://www.sciencedaily.com/releases/2015/01/150128081957.htm

&gt;In the lung cancer patients, azithromycin, the antibiotic used, increased one-year patient survival from 45% to 75%. Even lymphoma patients who were 'bacteria-free' benefited from a three-week course of doxycycline therapy, and showed complete remission of the disease.  

  &gt;increased one-year patient survival from 45% to 75%

And here's the study in question:

http://www.geneticsmr.com//year2014/vol13-2/pdf/gmr3374.pdf

Which states they even administered azithromycin for a short duration far way less than one year:

&gt; The patients in the ATP group [the group with the azithromycin] took 500 mg azithromycin orally per day for 5 consecutive days and three cycles with an interval of 23 days (one cycle lasted 28 days) 

However can anyone translate the above passage?  I think it says they gave the azithromycin for 5 consecutive days every 23 days, over a 3-month period, but I'm not sure.... They took it for five days with a 23 day break then 5 more days on with another break of 23 days in a total of three cycles. they took azithromycin for 5 days in a row in one month. then the next month they did it again. then the next month they took 5 more days worth of medicine. 15 total treatment days in 3 months (well 84 days.) A 23 day gap of no antibiotic treatment was taken after each 5 day course. So if I'm understanding correctly, they would be used to halt progression but not to kill existing tumor cells? yes. the cells need the mitochondria to reproduce independently to survive. By stopping this, newly formed cells are made w/out mitochondria, and they quickly die of lack of energy. At least, that's what I imagine would happen to them. Maybe they just don't form at all. I'm not sure if you know, but this is how science works.  My laymans understanding is in vitro always comes first.  Then maybe mice, then maybe humans.  I think they call it - a process.  Check it out. But unfortunately most new ideas fail somewhere along the way. Which is OK, because you can't have progress without failure. But it's a good idea to be sceptical when yet another sensational breakthrough is being hyped by the press. Unfortunately, it's not most, it's the vast majority.   I think the vast majority is still most. Try "it's not *just* most, it's the vast majority" instead. I worked in a toxicology lab some years ago.  They routinely used mice, rats, guinea pigs, rabbits, beagles, and rhesus monkeys.   Other animals are used to, like pigs but that's pretty much all they used where I worked.   

Often times any given drug, chemical, treatment, medical device or whatever would end up being tested with some or all of those animals depending on what they were looking for.  

One study used a strain of salmonella that was *less* virulent with the idea of injecting it into tumors.   They tested it on beagles to see what the effect would be if/when it escaped the tumor and got into the blood stream.  

The results were not good :/ 

 What happened to the poor beagles? Well, in general at the end of any of these studies the animals are euthanized and an autopsy is performed.  They call it a 'necropsy' though.  Tissue samples are saved for testing etc. etc.   

It was actually fairly unusual for animals to die from the testing.  Outside of that particular study I think I saw maybe 1 or 2 beagles die while a study was active and it may not have had anything directly to do with the study.   

Every single one of those pups on the salmonella study died though and pretty quickly.    The company kept trying to make or find a strain that was good enough to kill tumor cells but not reproduce very well but after a couple tries the place I worked for refused to do any more testing for them.   

On a side note, when they cancelled the last study there was a couple dogs "leftover" who hadn't been tested on yet, so I adopted one of them.   Took a lot of trouble on my end, ended up having to go to the vice president of the company to get permission.   That was around 13 or 14 years ago and that little beagle is now is old and grey haired, currently up under a blanket curled up against my feet snoring away.  

 &gt; Well, in general at the end of any of these studies the animals are euthanized and an autopsy is performed. They call it a 'necropsy' though. Tissue samples are saved for testing etc. etc.

That's because "autopsy" refers specifically to a necropsy on a member of your own species. Ah, well TIL something new.  Thanks. Auto meaning self or same (Automobile Self-Move)  
opsis meaning look or sight. (optical, cyclops)

Edit: format So I technically autopsy myself every time I look in the mirror? Last I heard, the company was trying to train dogs to perform autopsies on other dogs, with similarly disastrous results. But that was just a rumor.  That took a surprisingly pleasant turn at the end.  I took [these](https://imgur.com/a/CQfkl) about 5 years ago.  Him and I went for a walk through town during a rather epic blizzard.  He's a lot more grey these days but still gets around just fine.   It's interesting to me that I feel so conflicted right now over my love of animals and the necessity of animal experimentation. I also think it's ironic that the one thing that is going to eradicate the need for animal experimentation is science itself.


Sorry guys, I'm a little high right now. I actually think about this a lot. Especially as a meat eater, I've felt that my view of animals and how they should be treated is often in conflict with my actions and some other beliefs. I think animals should be treated humanely, but I think the data they can provide is invaluable. I think animals should be killed humanely, but I'm not sure if that's compatible with factory farming and the demand that, to some extent, I contribute to. 


Morality is no easy subject, high or not.  I hold the same view. I detest causing unnecessary pain (hence why I have a problem with certain slaughtering procedures) but I have to weigh that against my need for functioning drugs and nutrition requirements.

When vat-grown meat takes off, it makes the morality of food very, very simple. (And would hopefully replace factory farming as the method of choice) I would also hope the same technology can help with drug development, although I admit even if fully developed there would still be a (reduced) need for full animal testing.

 The morality of food when it comes to meat is already pretty simple. There's no nutritional need to eat meat. If you like meat go ahead and eat it, but it's silly to think you are only doing it because you have no other choice.  Based on working there a few years, I'd say the industry could use more regulation to reduce suffering.  Most of the undue suffering I saw was due to a lack of communication/understanding.  

Like one rabbit study that the head technician didn't quite understand the instructions due to the way it was worded.  Had they just communicated a little bit it could have been avoided. Actually, in modern science animal experimentation is being proven less and less effective. It made sense at some points in history, but in the end we are too different from animals to really trust results (something like 90% of drugs who get through testing on mice are not successful in humans) and computer models are getting more reliable. 

The Physician's Committee for Responsible Medicine has a lot of information about alternatives to animal testing in medical science and why they are more effective on many different levels. 

On top of that, after working with rescued lab monkeys I got a whole different image than this commenter is portraying about the cute puppies. Animal testing isn't pretty and is no longer a vital tool in research.  &gt; On top of that, after working with rescued lab monkeys I got a whole different image than this commenter is portraying about the cute puppies. 

I tried to be pretty vague about it.  A lot of it wasn't so bad but some of it was downright horrible.  I'll *never* forget that salmonella study. I'd have to disagree about the efficiency of animal testing.

We have more relevant animal models now than ever before. Transgenic animals with human MHC-I/-II for cancer and transplant studies, CRISPR technology gives genes an on/off switch and our knowledge of animal immunology gives us much better understanding on how the data we get from animals will be translated into humans.

Breast cancer will be solve soon due to animal testing. The HPV vaccine that prevents a majority of cervical cancer also needed animal testing before we understood how it would work in humans. Unless you manage to get 200-300 pre-adolescent kids for an untested vaccine.

We use much less animals because research is getting better at predicting the data, and we have better inbred strains with less genetic variability. This doesn't mean we don't need animals. It means we know how to use each animal more meaningfully.

The immune system is crazy complicated and animal models are the only way for us to get an educated guess on what it does. [deleted] That's pretty much how things worked there too.  Extras that were never used on a study were *sometimes* adopted out but it was pretty rare.  I'm aware of it happening maybe 3 or 4 times and to my understanding they changed to a no adoption ever policy not too long after I left.    

Without going into some details, I may have had some dirt on a certain supervisor.  She authorized the adoption *if* I got permission from the vice president.  She wasn't aware that I knew him though, and thought there was no chance in hell he'd approve it.  

 It's usually the negative control animals that can be adopted. These dogs probably got a saline solution instead of the experimental drugs.

The company I work for have an adoption program for these dogs. We even ask for volunteer dog walkers to socialize them witj humans before adoption. Why are most dog tests done on beagles? tl;dr - they are sweet and loving.  Long as you pet them they usually won't bite you or become aggressive when you do things to them that hurt.

More info [here](http://www.covance.com/industry-solutions/drug-development/services/research/research-models/canines.html).   well that just made it even sadder Geez, it's feels weird seeing living things marketed that way.  With a little rewording and switching out of "dogs" with "computers" or something, it'd be very similar to how such products are sold. They are quite small and quite passive. As someone who, it seems at least, likes dogs (enough to adopt one), it must have been hard to work in a place like that.  &gt; One study used a strain of salmonella that was less virulent with the idea of injecting it into tumors.

Conceptually that sounds vaguely like [Coley's toxins.](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Coley%27s_toxins) why beagles? Beagles are really docile in general and the ones bred for lab work are bred to be extra docile.   

They'll pretty much let you do whatever to do them, like torture them practically as long as you pet them for a couple seconds.   

Even if you hurt them or scare them they're very very unlikely to bite or become aggressive in any way.  There was one incident in my 2+ year just barely nipped someone and it was questionable if that's what really happened.   Worst thing they'd do is try to 'escape' the second you opened their cage door.   For someone my size, it's no biggie but some of the ladies who worked there were short, so every once in awhile they'd get a beagle to the face.  

Sounds funny but imagine if someone threw a 20lb weight with claws into your face. 

Some more [info here](http://www.covance.com/industry-solutions/drug-development/services/research/research-models/canines.html) from a major research animal breeder.   This is where my dog originated from. You know I had no idea.  I thought beagles were as prone to biting as any other dog.  That's sad and informative.  Nah they are super snuggly little furballs.  The lab ones are even more friendly and snuggly, being specifically bred to be so.   

My boy doesn't even seem to have any real hunting instincts.  Never followed a scent trail in his life until last year when I went hiking with out him.  Little bastard followed my trail no problem.   Never seen him go after rabbits or anything and at one point he had a fox as a friend.   The fox and the beagle. There was a fox that lived on our street and was pretty vocal and didn't seem too worried about humans.   

Somehow my dog and the fox  ended up friends.  For close to a year the fox would show up around dusk to play.   If my dog wasn't out the fox would sit out in the yard and cry.   

Eventually that fox died or left, but it's kids grew up and hung around but never played with the dog.   

 I remember writing a review on an article about injecting salmonella typhimurium in rats to treat tumors using different virulence factors and patterns. 
Is this a common project?  My mom researches liver medicines(Hep C, cancer, etc). It starts with mice, then rats, then larger and more complex(and expensive) animals. And every step of the research process involves a safe dose pinpointing and efficacy. I do the in vitro testing for antibiotics in my lab and this is how we do it.  [deleted] I actually think this is a great step as it can possibly serve as a model or assist in creating a better and more suitable model for in vivo. [deleted] &gt;Also, this study was done in vitro only

['Antibiotics kill cancer cells in a petri dish,' they say?](http://xkcd.com/1217/) [deleted] As they point out in the abstract, two of the drugs they looked at have already had clinical trials for other reasons, and seemed to be beneficial. [deleted] ELI5: in vitro? Done in test tubes/Petri dishes on cultured cells, so there are no actual human or animal subjects.  
&gt;Studies that are in vitro are performed with cells or biological molecules studied outside their normal biological context; for example proteins are examined in solution, or cells in artificial culture medium. Colloquially called "test tube experiments"

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/In_vitro In glass (ie. out of normal context) Dear lord, this article reads as if it was written by an eight year old! There are tons of problems with this paper, not the least of which is that they don't even show that the antibiotics they test actually affect cancer stem cells. They only use standard cultured cancer cell lines. And importantly, they are not even measuring viability of these cells in the presence of antibiotics, just tumor sphere formation. Then they don't even check whether normal sphere formation for certain non-malignant cell types is unaffected, (i.e. human ES cells). So it's completely comparing apples to oranges. 

It's important to mention as well that there isn't 100% agreement that cancer stem cells even exist. And if they do exist, whether they are present in all malignancies, and what characteristics define them. Not to mention, antibiotics in culture can affect cell line growth, that is why a lot of researchers try not to consistently use them in culturing human cells. Many stem cell lines aren't even supposed to be cultured in the presence of antibiotics. I don't know what the circulating levels of antibiotics in the body are for the ones they tested, but they may be much, much lower than what they can dump in a dish of cells. 

There also isn't complete evidence that all types of cancer cells have high levels of mitochondrial biogenesis. And they haven't shown that "biogenesis" (which is itself a fairly vague term) is being affected in the cell lines they're using. Plenty of cancer cells within tumors (which a low oxygen environment) may downregulate aerobic respiration. 

Now there may be tractable anti-cancer targets with regards to mitochondria, and there's plenty of cool cancer mitochondrial biology work being done, but I am hugely skeptical that anything has actually been proven in this paper. 

Source (not that you should listen just because of this): I've worked on mitochondrial biology, and am currently a cancer researcher.

TL;DR: This paper is crap. Source: PhD in effects of mitochondrial genetics on breast cancer onset/severity

Had some very negative experiences reviewing (personally, not for a journal) Dr. Lisanti's work over the years looking into the Warburg effect ("reversed", or otherwise). His group had an extremely active publication record. Looked at a series of papers all published in Cell Cycle and the thing that jumped out the most was the ~2 week period between submission receipt and publication acceptance. Lo and behold, Lisanti was on the editorial board for Cell Cycle. The papers our group looked at were similarly poorly written and lacked significant controls. The goal was to use his work to educate the lab about something, turned into a who's who of what glaring errors everyone could spot. Looks like he wasn't long for Philadelphia, I wonder how he's finding Manchester.

Listing his own daughter on the author line is a new one, though. Yeah, I was wondering how this junk got published. I'm unclear on the reputation of Oncotarget, but it has a decent impact factor. Frankly I'm baffled that this made it in.  Dug up three (of the four, and I can imagine there are many others) that first drew our attention (ire?) to Lisanti's outrageous behavior. 

Here's a perfect example http://www.tandfonline.com/doi/pdf/10.4161/cc.9.11.11848 ( Submitted: 03/18/10; Accepted: 03/22/10).

Or this one: http://www.tandfonline.com/doi/pdf/10.4161/cc.9.10.11601 (Submitted: 02/19/10; Accepted: 02/23/10)

Or this one: http://www.tandfonline.com/doi/pdf/10.4161/cc.8.23.10238 (Submitted: 10/02/09; Accepted: 10/05/09) Thanks for writing this so I don't have to. My PhD is in cancer biology focusing on the mitochondria, and I was going crazy reading these comments. What a ridiculously biased paper. [deleted] Holy crap, they even say that nine mitochondrial proteins in MCF-7 mammo-spheres are "infinitely upregulated"! Anything that can kill a human cell, can also kill a tumor cell. The important thing is to target only cancer cells which is extremely tricky, as cancer cells are derived from your own cells, meaning it's hard to distinguish between a normal cell and one which turned into a cancer cell. There are promising approaches, but nothing really successful yet. The future will show. If we can manage that, then we can use any cytotoxic substance that gets later degraded within the cancer cell itself. Regarding these kinda antibiotics, In vivo, these antibiotics would also harm the mitochondria of our normal cells, thus it's also harmful for the patient. I can also use a hammer to kill cancer cells, but a patient wouldn't like it if I were to hit him with that. Chemotherapy is like a hammer. You hit the patient and hope that the cancer dies before the patient.  There are actually a handful of treatments that do target the specific protein pathways caused by cancer mutations.  Herceptin is one of them.  Besides, even if this is just another hammer, there are plenty of people who have cancers resistant to all of the other hammers we're using.   You are right. But to be correct. Herceptin is a humanized monoclonal antibody targeting a growth factor receptor. And it only targets few specific cancer types. You won't beat a fully grown tumor with antibodies. And they only work within the blood and lymph. Of course every cancer has to be treated as it's own type of disease. There won't be one cure or one treatment. Treatments in the future will be tailored. I see antibody therapy in cancer research as a means to possibly filter metastatic cancer cells within the blood vessels and the lymph, before they can settle down and grow. That would be very desirable, as metastasis is what makes cancer so dangerous. In a surgery some cancer cells can seperate and reach the bloodflow and soon the patient might get a new tumor. With antibodies against these cancer cells we might be able to prevent this after surgery.  Don't forget when they mutate to get around the pathway. These cell mechanisms are a really complex Web.  This is the difference between chemotherapy and immunotherapy. Just to chime in - Herceptin doesn't target a protein pathway caused by cancer. It targets a receptor which leads to a normal pathway in a lot of cell lines. The HER2 receptor which Hereptin targets is overexpressed in certain breast cancers which is why the drug works. Downregulation of HER2 in cancer cells, as well as other healthy HER2 expressing cells in the body. [deleted] But what would stop the antibiotics attacking healthy mitochondria? Sounds like many treatments where they try and kill off the cancer quicker than it kills of normal cells. Most antibiotics don't really attack the cell, but rather impede reproductive capabilities to slow spread. Mitochondria reproduce by binary fission like bacteria so it just might stop rapidly reproducing cells the same way chemo does. &gt; so it just might stop rapidly reproducing cells the same way chemo does.

So it'll have comparable side effects? Probably some side effects will be similar.

The one issue that I can think of is that chemo targets fast replicating cells so things like your hair are also affected. When you target mitochondria you may be affecting cells that don't divide quick (or at all), but require high mitochondrial activity. Like neurons and muscles. 

The side effects might be more similar to a mitochondrial disease http://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mitochondrial_disease

From Wikipedia: Symptoms include poor growth, loss of muscle coordination, muscle weakness, visual problems, hearing problems, learning disabilities, heart disease, liver disease, kidney disease, gastrointestinal disorders, respiratory disorders, neurological problems, autonomic dysfunction and dementia. Sounds worse than what side effects I'm dealing with right now as a former cancer patient who just had to do chemo.

I was hoping this might be a little less harmful, but alas, it seems like it'd be worse in some cases. Possibly. It won't be outright poisoning you but if it isn't targeted into the tumour it will still kill hair, gastro-intestinal and immune cells. Mitochondria have ribosomes like bacteria do. They are different than the ones in the cytoplasm and on the ER (endoplasmic reticulum). That's why mitochondria can be targeted with a substance that should only kill a bacterium. Mitochondria have also other attributes that are like bacteria which can be targeted . Antibiotics as a broad term would be any substance that can kill a bacterium. In a more narrowed definition, any substance that can kill a bacterium but does't harm a human cell. Targets for antibiotics are for example, the bacterial cell wall, specific bacterial enzymes (which we do not have), or the bacterial ribosomes. In some cases where antibiotics target ribosomes, there can be a cross reaction with mitochondrial ribosomes, as they are not much different.  Right.  It sounds like this specifically targets the formation of new mitochondria.  One of the hallmarks of malignant tumors are that their cells divide much faster rate han normal human cells.  Most chemotherapies are based around this fact.  Stomach lining and hair cells also divide at a fast rate, which is why chemo causes you to feel sick and lose your hair. /r/science summed up.

People on here will NEVER learn.

It's like each week cancer gets cured but yet strangely noone else is reporting this magical overnight cure for the 1000 odd types of cancer out there.

There is no 'cure' there is treatment. A cure is something that you take to prevent you from getting it in the first place which is technically impossible unless you are talking about genetic modification on some level. You can't just stop mutations occouring without changing the structure of your makeup The data doesn't demonstrate that there is an "eradication of stem cells." The data only shows there is a reduction in tumor sphere formation, only one of the several qualities that stem cells possess. In order to make such a claim, they would have to establish that the treatment reduces the viability of cells that are clonogenic, multipotent, can self-renew, and that express stem cell markers-- all of the characteristics of stem cells. Otherwise, the paper only shows that the treatment prevents sphere formation of stem cells, at best. Their conclusions are far stronger than the data shows. 

Edit: switched a word  Glad someone pointed this out.  So everyone seems to think that this will kill all normal cells with mitochondria, however they said they are only targeting a small population of TICs Dependant on mitochondrial biogenesis for clonal expansion, so wouldn't this only affect other normal stem cell or progenitors? I only had a quick glance at the paper so this might have already been answered in the text. However from what I know about mitochondrial function and cancer, most cancer tissue are acclimatised to hypoxia, which means they rely very little on their mitochondria to provide energy. Cells without mitochondria at all (Rho0 cells) has been generated before and they only need a few additional supplements (mainly uridine which can only be synthesised in the mitochondria) to be viable in culture, and chances are they will be fine inside a living body where various nucleotides are easy to come by. Besides that point, cancer stems cells are often poorly accessible since it is often embedded in other tissue which may metabolise or export the drug so it is probably much harder to develop therapy based on this approach. 

Another point is that tetracycline is known to have toxic effects to cells at 50uM, viability alone does not tell the whole story. 

Source: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/hep.24290/pdf the Warburg effect popped into my head as well. here's a couple ideas i had why this might work though:

1. CSC mitochondria are different from the mitochondria of regular cells
2. mitochondria are involved in a bunch of death pathways

Basically, although the CSC's are not metabolically dependent, most of the various oncogenic/tumor suppressor pathways are still extant. There's some that are broken, but my hunch is that the break acts as a dam to prevent cell death, and a lot of pressure builds up behind that dam if that kind of makes sense.

Here's a link that kind of summarizes stuff, it's been a year since I was doing cancer stuff so I'm rather rusty as well.
http://www.researchgate.net/profile/Guido_Kroemer/publication/44596864_Targeting_mitochondria_for_cancer_therapy/links/00b7d5289a845514dc000000.pdf [deleted] [deleted] Hi, oncologist and cancer researcher here. I'm always interested to see new ideas and approaches, but there's lot of reason for not going overboard in enthusiasm for this study. As already pointed out, the experiments we're all done in vitro using cell lines. Cell lines don't truly have stem and non-stem cell populations. LOTS and LOTS of things will kill cell lines growing in plastic that can't be used in patients. Bleach for example. There's also lots of compounds already that target the function of mitochondria -- they're essentially all poisons. Cyanide is a classic example. [deleted] [deleted] Flouroquinolones(type of antibiotic) can really cause severe issues. Some research shows that it can cause mitochondrial damage.

I've been suffering due to this antibiotic for over two years with literally no help from the medical community. I had read somewhere that the quinolone drugs were originally designed to treat cancer. I need to find the article though. Also, I'm sorry you are suffering permanent side effects from it. I took Cipro for a UTI last year and have suffered minor side effects ever since (tendon damage, anxiety). Targeting mitochondria sounds like a recipe for dead people. Unless there's some marker that can be exploited to only target cancerous cells' mitochondria, this would be a massive risk:reward  scenario. Cancer researcher here!

There seems to be a lot of misunderstanding in here, so let me know if you need anything explained about this article or cancer/cancer treatments in general and I can try to help.

This article reminds me of a Phase 1 study that I recently read for class that is testing one of the first mitochondrial respiration inhibitors. http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25165100 But about the OP article, I wouldn't get excited about it. It would need in vivo studies before any higher journal would even consider publishing it. Remember: http://xkcd.com/1217/  One thing to note here is that they were targeting cancer STEM CELLS, not cancer cells. There is a slight difference. Cancer stem cells are stem cells (e.g. stem cells in the skin, intestine, testes, bone marrow, etc) that have become cancerous and are thought to initiate recurrent cancers. Our current chemo options target cells that divide very quickly, but cancer stem cells divide very slowly (the cells they turn into after division would be more like traditional cancer cells and divide quickly). This means that traditional chemos kill the "offspring cells" of cancer stem cells, but not the actual source of them (the stem cells). This would lead to recurrence of the cancer pretty quickly b/c the source is still alive and well. If this therapy works, this would be a great way to go right to the source of these cancer cells.

However, the idea that these cancerous stem cells could contribute to cancer is pretty new, and right now is frankly just a hypothesis. Right now scientists are still gathering evidence that they even exist (which is pretty convincing evidence, btw). It's thought that a very low number of cancers would be caused by cancer stem cells, but the ones they do cause would be very difficult to fully treat and likely to recur.

Source: Am med student, just learned about this stuff.
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cancer_stem_cell [deleted] Not only is this concept of anticancer mitochondrial inhibition not novel, it was my undergraduate thesis in 2006! I spent 4 tedious years isolating plant compounds that target mitochondrial complex I and interrupt aerobic production of ATP, with moderate in-vitro success. Using antibiotics  as a proposed therapy seems silly considering almost every cancer patient ends up on many of the listed antibiotics with no discernible modification in course of neoplastic disease. Can someone help me understand something? Drugs like doxycycline were only apoptotic in cancer stem cell lines, correct? I am curious because inducible gene expression systems (like Tet-Off/Tet-On) used in cancer research for endogenous expression of a peptide frequently utilize doxycycline as an inducer.  If one were using this system to express a gene that could transactivate apoptotic genes, could doxycycline itself be contributing to cell death? I would imagine this could be this case if the system were being used for endogenous expression in an inducible cancer stem cell line, but not otherwise. Any ideas? Always gotta have doxy only littermate control. Good catch.  But those using the system control for that possibility by measuring cell death in both a population expressing their transgene and a population that just has an empty expression vector.  So any off target effects are measured with treatment + empty vector and then the death of cells expressing the transgene is normalized to the control to account for these effects. Yes, this is true. Although I am curious because I am wondering if this would make the Tet-On system more difficult to use, or perhaps inferior to an alternative for endogenous expression of an apoptosis promoting gene in an inducible cancer stem cell line. If your control vector is achieving high cell kill, it may limit your ability to show the efficacy of a peptide. Am I correct in drawing this conclusion?  Definitely correct. You have to hope that they would not use a system that demonstrates a severe increase in apoptosis in the control group.  There are so many different inducible systems now that it shouldn't be too hard to find one that doesn't have these effects.  This is another treatment with promising results for fighting cancer, but with the side effects carelessly not mentioned.

While the side effects will most likely not kill people, they will be present and of medical concerns. Targetting mitochondrial biogenesis is going to mean that you're not going to be able to replace mitochondria or generate new ones in new cells, meaning tissue repair and growth will be hindered, at least. There will also probably be issues with fatigue and weakness.

Yes, these are all preferable to cancer. However, this still isn't a perfect cure. The big problem right now is finding a way to not target healthy cells *at all*. Can someone please explain this to me like I am 5.  2 weeks ago my Mums breast cancer came back with a vengeance.  I want to understand this medical finding, and maybe have something to hope for.   Cancer pharmacist here.  I don't think this idea holds much water and would be surprised if it actually advances to the clinical trial stage.  Article states that macrolide antibiotics (i.e. the erythromycins) should achieve the effect they're looking for.  However, there are thousands if not millions of smokers who develop COPD and get put on long-term azithromycin.  Yet they all get lung cancer by the truckload.  If azithromycin had a chemoprotective effect, we would have detected it by now. Most existing chemotherapies already work something like this, except not by targeting mitochondrial alterations, but by targeting proteins necessary for rapid cell division (which is characteristic of tumor cells). The problem is that chemotherapy therefore also kills all the cells in us that are normally rapidly-dividing. Those are stem cells.

So, targeting 'stem-ness' will likely lead to the same side effects as most traditional chemotherapies, which also tend to kill stem cells. Hair production and gut integrity rely on stem cells. When chemotherapy (accidentally) kills them in addition to the 'stem-like' cancer cells, that's why your hair falls out and you have terrible gastrointestinal problems.

TL;DR: This 'new' approach does basically the same thing as old approaches, and will likely have the same side effects.

 I'm pretty sure chloramphenicol causes aplastic anemia in humans. That's worse than cancer. It's pretty rare when it happens though

&gt;affecting 1 in 24,00040,000 

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Chloramphenicol#Aplastic_anemia But you also have to consider if there would be any sort of correlation between people who have cancer and people who would be more likely to get aplastic anemia.  So...what's the catch with this one? It has been tested in a petri dish with cancer cell lines. This only shows that antibiotics like tetracycline, which also target mitochondria, because they are like bacteria, can kill mitochondria, thus the cancer cells. It's just bad that all your cells need mitochondria to be able to survive.  Essentially, the problem is that a gun also kills cancer in a petri dish.  There's tons of potential cancer cures leads that are discovered each year, most of them fail to work in real human tests.

Here are some doctors weighing in on the article: https://www.quora.com/Although-I-am-highly-skeptical-and-I-suspect-clickbait-is-it-true-that-antibiotics-can-be-used-to-fight-cancer?srid=i4iy&amp;share=1 One problem, cancer patients are often already on large quantities of antibiotics due to the immune suppression effects of chemo. If they had a significant effect on tumor growth, I think we would have realized by now.  [deleted] I actually read about this a few days ago while researching cancer. My 8 year old dog (puppy) was recently diagnosed with nasal cancer. The vet guessed he might live another 3 months. I could put him through radiation and surgery, but that might buy him another year. I mentioned this article to my vet, and he looked at my strange. He then started talking about the traditional treatments. I went to another vet, and she pretty much did the same. She went ahead and humored me and put him on a antibiotic. I really don't know if the dosage is correct or if this will work orally. Would anyone have a suggestion? 

I am not looking for a miracle, just more quality time with my puppy. A very old-school idea, I must say. In the age where scientist have gone from inhibiting DNA to RNA to protease or kinase related to respective cancers, why are we still talking about inhibiting mitochondria. Even if through some miracle, it did enter phase II or III clinical trial, it will not take long for resistance to develop. Next generation cancer treatment are kinase inhibitor or protease inhibitors surely not antibiotics. [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] For us simple folk, does this mean a cure?  No. First, this study was performed on cancer stem cells, which cause a very small number of cancer cases, but are very hard to treat. http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cancer_stem_cell

Secondly, it's unlikely there will ever be a universal "cure" for cancer because different cancer types are so vastly different. Two different cancer cells can work so differently they could probably be considered different species.  I meant more of a cure for what they ran tests on. But thank you In that case it's possible, but these tests were done in vitro. It's really hard to predict how things will work in the human body. This is promising, but a lot more testing needs to be done. Many, many compounds kill cancer cells in petri dishes but are metabolized/degraded/sequestered etc in the human body so they are ineffective. Although, antibiotics do seem promising since they already have extensive evidence of working in the human body. It would just be a matter of getting the antibiotics to the cancer location.

Also, cancer cells can be strangely similar to bacteria in that they can develop resistance very easily just from random DNA mutations over many cell divisions. I think its possible that any cancer you tried to treat with antibiotics (just like any chemo drug) would soon develop some resistance. Here is the original research for this study in the New England Journal of Medicine. My apologies for not posting it sooner.

http://www.nejm.org/doi/full/10.1056/NEJMoa1414850?query=featured_home The NEJoM is one of the top 3 medical journals for professionals. [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] Your immune cells become trained to ignore food you eat even though it is a foreign substance. This is an essential body feedback loop for that reason. Otherwise you couldnt eat anything but your own body parts withoutoing into shock.

Some T cells get trained near the gut. [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] I have a deadly peanut allergy and it annoys me that I'm older than this information You can still be treated. Find an allergist near you who treats peanut allergies. Check with the Food Allergy and Anaphylaxis Network (FAAN) website. I believe they list doctors who treat. Our allergist treats patients from 3 to 35. You're never too old to treat it. Study http://www.nejm.org/doi/full/10.1056/NEJMoa1414850?query=&amp; I'm not sure why this isn't taught more.

A lady at work said her son was allergic to peanuts badly when he was very young. He became part of a study where he had to go to this specialist and be exposed to peanut oil once a (week? month? I'm not sure). This was in an attempt to build up his immune system.

It took a long time, but apparently he has very little problems with peanuts now, and it's not life threatening as it once was.
 This. The patient is fed specially prepared peanut flour that enables the doctor to closely control the dose They give you 14 doses at the same strength which you take daily. After two weeks you go back. They check you out and if you had no problems during the last two weeks you get a higher dose for the next two weeks. This keeps up until you get up to the equivalent of about 3 peanuts/day. Once that happens they transition you to regular peanuts and you take 3-4 per day to keep your immunity up. Now after 5 years of the program (and 10 years since the first clinical trials) they're finding the long-term effects are even more positive than originally anticipate.
 [deleted] They talked about exposure therapy on I think Science Friday over a year ago. They had a group of people who were highly allergic, life threatening in small doses.

They did extremely small dose exposure, like 1/1000th of a peanut (maybe even way smaller than that, I don't remember), for weeks, then slowly upped the quantity.  Some eventually got to the point where they were effectively not allergic anymore, but most if not all at least got to the point where they were still allergic but it was only annoying, not life threatening (IE would flush a bit or get itchy but not go into shock and have their airways swell shut). A herpitologist named Bill Haast did this same therapy to himself with cobra venom. Started giving himself increasing daily doses of venom and after a while his body created their own antibodies against it and he became immune to their bites [Link]( http://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bill_Haast). Also pretty awesome is he lived to be 100 :-) [deleted] [deleted] This CAN work, but for fuck's sake, don't start feeding peanuts to a kid that'll go into anaphylactic shock. There's different degrees of severity in allergies. This trick doesn't work on the people who can be killed by touching peanuts.  True. Children with severe allergies have been treated using this method but they started on bare trace amounts of peanut powder to begin with, working up slowly over years. The study is saying that early exposure prevents many (but not all) peanut allergies from occurring to begin with. Of course, you don't give a baby a peanut. Even peanut butter is considered a choking hazard. We scraped very small amounts of peanut butter onto toast and used that as an early finger food.

Around 2000, doctors and children's groups advocated against letting children eat any peanut products until age 3. Their reasoning was that peanut allergies are severe, and you don't want a baby being exposed. However, these new studies are saying those recommendations did more harm than good, and waiting to introduce peanuts might increase the risk of allergies by 7 times what it would be otherwise. Definitely. At the beginning of the study, infants who reacted severely to the prick test were separated out and told to avoid peanuts for safety reasons.  [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] Please forgive my somewhat disjointed thought structure - it's been a long day:

I grew up in India where, on the whole, the population isn't as allergic to nuts/seeds/food. When I moved to Australia, I was rather shocked to find the number of people that couldn't eat food that we wouldn't think twice about consuming back home.

Thinking back on my childhood (and to some extent, the lives of most of my friends in India), as kids, we were made to eat everything.  Whatever was cooked for meals was eaten. No ifs, ands or buts about it. If we didn't eat it, our parents wouldn't make us any alternatives or let us off easy - everything had to be eaten. That was the norm.

I'm told that in Australia, parents would many times exempt their kids from eating things they didn't like - for instance: a friend of mine never ate tomatoes because she didn't like them as a kid and now if she has even a slice, she feels violently ill. 

Could this be the reason why allergies aren't as rampant in somewhere like India as opposed to the Western world? I think it's more likely a regional difference in foods humans have needed to be able to eat to survive. Asians have much higher frequencies of lactose intolerance, since dairy consumption wasn't a staple of many Asian cultures. No evidence to back this up, but I can tell you here in the states I have plenty of family members with allergies and we never got to choose what we ate growing up, either. I see what you're saying, but I just want to make clear that lactose intolerance isn't due to allergies. People are lactose intolerant because their bodies physically can't break down the material; they lack the physiological means to do so. This is much different than an allergy which is an immune mediated hypersensitivity, so the immune system freaks out majorly over what it shouldn't (such as a particle of pollen or a bit of peanut).

Not trying to be an asshole. Just offering some information! I think this is a difficult conclusion. 

I am half chinese and half european. When I was small I remember eating peanuts, and at some point not liking them anymore because they stung my tongue. I grew up with a cat, spending every day outdoors, ate healthy and everything. When I turned 7 I developed asthma, a severe allergy to my cat (sad day for me), pollen allergy, ecczema on arms and legs and overall I became very sensitive and easily sick. I caught a flew and a fever so bad I nearly died, even with medication. I used to llie in the grass every day and suddently I got rashes from just touching it. 

It all happened gradually, my immune system is, 25 years later, still weak. I took so many blood tests in my life, I do not have a single defficiency, no cancer, no auto immune illness,  yet I get sick all the time. My peanut allergy remains, but it is not deadly or extreme. I have a high histamine sensitivity though, and going on a histamine free diet for 3 months after an allergic shock helped my ecczema. 

All I know is my father had psoarsis, a form of ecczema. 

My brother on the otherhand just developed a pollen allergy at age 18, he never eats vegetables but he has no food allergies at all and never gets sick. 

I don't think there will ever be a simple explanation to allergies.  I really hate this kind of reporting, because it assumes a causal relationship between peanut exposure and development of a peanut allergy. 

The theory at the moment is that children who develop food allergies do so because they are not properly colonized with the gut bacteria needed to "tag" those proteins as safe. The human gut is a battlefield and the body needs to be able to establish which incoming proteins are "food" and which are "pathogen." We depend on our gut bacteria to help us with this process. 

Introducing or not introducing peanuts does not cause an allergy. In many ways, allergies are independent of the foods themselves. However, the more time that passes before peanuts are introduced, the more chance there is that necessary bacteria will have been lost in a child's gut. 

This week, concurrent research about [automatic dishwashers being a risk factor for developing allergies](http://www.npr.org/blogs/health/2015/02/23/387553285/kids-allergies-and-a-possible-downside-to-squeaky-clean-dishes) was published. This makes sense because the detergents used in the process kill bacteria. There may also be a residue left on dishes that is introduced into a child's gut, further killing bacteria. We have antibiotics in our food, in household materials, in the hospitals where babies are born. We practice monocultural agriculture with heavy pesticides where bacteria are eliminated. (Incidentally, one of the strong theories for bee loss is that we are killing the bacteria in bee guts that *they* need for immune health.)

Indians are (mostly) protected because they eat foods and live in an environment where these traditional bacteria colonies are still present. 

TLDR: it's probably not about the peanuts themselves. It's about our environment. It's not as simple as you make it. It is not yet known whether early introduction or avoidance prevents allergies. That's why this study was done as well as others still under way.
I don't think this is the study to end all studies on the topic. There are several limitations:

1. It wasn't blinded. Parents, kids and the doctors and nurses administering and judging(!) the food challenge were aware what group the child was in. They say it's for logistic and financial reasons and I don't doubt this is true but given that so many symptoms in food challenges are subjective (abdominal pain) or open to interpretation (angioedema, rash etc. which, when mild, are not really conclusive). The Double-Blind Placebo-Controlled Food Challenge is the gold standard but it isn't all that standardized, especially the documentation, grading and evaluation of symptoms.

2. They gave both placebo and verum on the same day, shortening a food challenge that is normally done on two separate days and making results less objective. Symptoms don't always appear within 15 minutes. This way you have no information on placebo reactors, which are really common.

3. They excluded some children in the peanut consumption group. With these small numbers, this can really make a difference.

These kinds of studies are tricky. Even if randomized and blinded, they deviate from RCTs in that your intervention (giving peanuts) is at the same time a diagnostic measure (a food challenge), leading to inequalities of the treatment of the two arms. Treating them equally is the whole point of an RCT.



EDIT:
I just thought of a 4.:
After they randomized children, they performed food challenges with peanut for all children randomized into the 'consumption' arm. 6 were positive and thus excluded. It is to be assumed that the same number would have been positive (had they been tested) in the 'avoidance' group. Some may have lost that allergy but some were probably still allergic at 5 years. Again, the numbers are so small, a few cases taken away here and there add up.
 No. I think you are reading your bias on parenting into this study. It seems the age range on the study is too low for children to be as picky as you seem to be implying. Plus, a lot of allergy stuff can be genetic, so it might just be that Indians generally speaking haven't developed many allergies. [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] I know your example is a joke, [but that's actually a real thing people do and it actually works.](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mithridatism) [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] Interesting fact about this story: the results come from comparing Jewish kids in the US/UK with high peanut allergy rates to Israeli kids with low rates. Israeli's feed their kids Bamba, or peanut flavored pirate booty.

Despite what political differences governments, religions and peoples mights have, its nice to see that scientists are still able to cooperate. Divestiture literally helps no one.  Pirate booty? Is that a food? Not sure if this is what the other person is referring to but this is pretty popular around me: http://www.piratebrands.com/pirates-booty/aged-white-cheddar http://pics.worldofjudaica.net/images/products/original/24885_osem_bamba_peanut_snack_view_1.jpg
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bamba_%28snack%29 The main study (http://www.nejm.org/doi/full/10.1056/NEJMoa1414850?query=&amp;) was not limited to Jewish children, instead it looked at infants and followed them up to 5 years of age. One group were exposed to peanuts, the other one was instructed to avoid all exposure. We read this very study when my son started eating solids and decided to feed him nuts as a result (yay anecdote). Coincidentally my Israeli colleague on hearing this also kept giving me packs of Bamba to feed him. Tasty.
 [deleted] The findings suggests the very low levels of peanut allergen found in Bamba are the key, along with early exposure.  By the time you could actually eat a sandwich it was already too late for you, that and pure peanut is too much allergen for this sort of exposure therapy to work. The Bamba is only slightly peanutty.  [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] They made sure no one died:  "Children who showed some peanut sensitivity and were sorted into the peanut-eating group had to pass a peanut food challenge to make sure they could handle their assignment. Six who had a reaction to peanuts were reassigned to the peanut-avoidance group." How else would they get this past an ethics board if they didn't do that?

"So, how do you plan on dealing with the more sensitive cases in your exposure group?"

"Uh.....hope that they live through it?" [deleted] You mean that the groups are filtered before? It seems fishy from a statistical point of view. Yes- based on this article it looks like they tested the children for peanut sensitivity (skin-prick test) and then more thoroughly tested (food challenge) any child who tested positive in the first test to exclude any children with already-devloped peanut allergies.


That doesn't mean we should disregard the study.  It *does* seem to show that peanut exposure is helpful in preventing allergies *in children who do not already have fully-developed peanut allergies*.  

My concern is that people will read the headline and assume that it's no big deal to give a kid peanuts even if they're allergic, which isn't the case at all. Stick to peanut butter in younger children. There is a significant risk of aspiration if they are fed whole peanuts. 
 Seen this on Wall Street Journal Today.

My SO is allergic to peanuts.  Many different kind of nuts.  We have talked about raising our children up with peanuts in their daily eating habit.

She said it will be my duty to do so because she cannot get close, see, touch, or feel them.  I want to introduce my children to all kind of food, just like when I was little (grew up in third world, got upgrade to first world, never have allergies,  only grass allergies because where i grew up, we had rain forest and jungles.)

Edit:  Weird right?  out of all the plants, im allergic to grass.  Front lawn grass... bermuda, crab, all sort of grass.  MD with allergies to cashews, pistachios and Brazilian nuts. 

After reading all the comments, I concur that this article can be misleading to people who can't understand scientific literature and the outcomes can be dangerous. 

Desensitization in what ever tiny amount is dangerous since our bodies respond differently. Your allergy may just limit you to an itch with urticaria while mine is anaphylactic.

It would be interesting for studies to detect if mothers ate ie: peanuts while pregnant but then the child still exhibited an allergy/intolerance after. Would prove without doubt that allergy is developed postnatal and there is a crucial immunological response missing or over reactive that becomes apparent. That should be studied.

Another hypoth I just thought of is; pregnant mom eats peanut. Baby born, peanut exposure neglected; does the lack of exposure after previous allergen exposure increase the chance of allergic response?? Hmm... 7am but I wonder misleading title : To ~~fight~~ *prevent* peanut allergies, it is better to eat them: small children who avoided peanuts for the first five years of their lives were up to seven times more likely to wind up with peanut allergy I think a point of clarity needs to be made. If you have a child allergic to things, don't go shoving bucket loads of the food down their face. Allergies can still lead to death due to swelling of the throat and so on. I think the point needs to be made that small incremental doses should be slowly introduced under the supervision of a medical staff member prior to attempting to recondition the human body on your own. Things can go tragically wrong. Otherwise, good luck and be safe.  If you'd read the article, you'd see the point is that kids should be exposed before they develop the allergy. It's kind of a tradition where i live to give nuts, pees, peanuts, strawberry, tomatoes around 1.5 years old. The baby is given small doses and kept under supervision for a few hours. Doctors recommend it and give information about allergies. I don't know a single person that has an allergy to any kind of  food. From the study, it seems like 1.5 years would be too old. All the infants were between 4 and 11 months old when they joined the study. 

&gt;Anecdotal evidence for the hygiene hypothesis came from a 2008 study of Jewish children. Some lived in Britain, where toddlers dont eat peanuts until they are at least a year old. The others lived in Israel, where infants start eating foods made with peanuts when they are 7 months old. Although both groups of children had a similar genetic background, the British children were 10 times more likely to have peanut allergies than their counterparts in Israel. Some of the doctors and allergy experts who worked on that study set out to test the hygiene hypothesis. Not too old, necessarily. You're correct that the children studied began eating peanuts in their first year, but that's not to say there aren't benefits to starting in the second year (they'd have to look at it separately). They also studied only high risk children who already had an allergy ("severe eczema, egg allergy, or both"). Also, I think this applies to people who have not yet developed the allergy. A main theory is that our immune system basically learns what is "safe" in our early childhood years, so the idea is to train it to think peanuts is a natural part of the environment rather than a dangerous intruder.

However, if you've already developed a peanut allergy, eating peanuts is of course a bad idea as it's one of the most dangerous food allergies and is potentially fatal. [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] It's more that eczema is an indicator of allergies, particularly to peanuts, eggs, or milk. Also we don't really understand why allergies develop, but it's suspected that the same mechanism can apply repeatedly to different foods, so that if you've already developed one you're probably in the risk zone of developing others as well.

(Just my layman understanding, not my field of expertise.) I also almost died from a peanut allergy as an infant. However when I had an allergy test done at around 12 I was found to no longer be allergic to anything. Moral of the story allergies aren't static, they can develop or worsen over time, and they can sometimes decrease. This seems to be saying kids who eat peanuts are less likely *to get them later.* Not that eating them will cure an allergy. additionally from what I know reactions typically worsen if you're repeatedly exposed.    [deleted] Half the comments are deleted, what's going on?  ITT: people who can't handle something contrary to their pre-conceived opinions. This is /r/science folks!

 That's bizarre... like others in this thread as well, I thought this was conventional knowledge. The American Academy of Pediatrics and American pediatricians used to tell parents not to introduce peanut products in any way until kids are 3 (this avoidance started in the late 90s). So, a lot of people who have kids who are young teenagers today (or Redditers who *are* young teenagers) are shocked by this information, and some might be in denial. It's also scary for people who have a history of allergies in the family because no one wants a small infant having a severe reaction to an allergen. People who have seen these reactions are angry about the idea of putting babies at risk. The new research, however, is showing that early exposure might prevent the vast majority of these allergy cases to begin with, and that's a big deal. [deleted] Damn, thats worse because youve tasted heaven and had it ripped from you What else does this apply to? A lot of virulent diseases; small exposure to prevent harm from significant exposure is basically how vaccines work. For me, this is actually the rare study about something I thought I already knew to cause me to look more into the subject than I have in the past... Because I had been under the impression we already knew all this. While many people would have allergies anyway, I had been under the impression that lack of early exposure would cause allergies to be much more likely to occur. I had also thought, anecdotally, that many parents were choosing to expose their babies to small amounts of peanuts under a doctor's supervision early on, because otherwise wouldn't you just be living in fear based on whether your child might have a life-threatening allergy? Better to know now with medical treatment immediately available. However, the study acts like we are just figuring these things out now, which means that whatever previous thoughts I had on the topic were apparently unfounded. If nothing else this will push me to make sure my thoughts on the topic are more evidence-based. The guidelines prior to 2008 (and many pediatricians have not kept up, unfortunately) were that people should avoid potential allergens (milk, nuts, etc.) until age 2. Most parents are very hesitant to introduce foods that could trigger a scary, life-threatening reaction. This was very bad advice, of course, because maybe many more kids have allergies as a result. And if you think about it, it's better to give things to your kid at an early age (8-10 months) under close parental supervision (meaning, ready to go to the ER immediately) rather than risk them being exposed while at daycare or elsewhere when it's not expected.

So yeah, your previous thoughts were on target, but not consistent with earlier guidance on allergies. Doctors in Georgia are curing kids of peanut allergies by feeding them peanuts.  At first it's just micro-grams which they can tolerate.  Then they increase it little by little.  Pretty cool.  Nobody should go through life with a deadly allergy hanging around their neck if they can avoid it. Do you think maybe you can read the article before your kneejerk strawman or whatever decides to weigh in? I assume this wouldn't help in all cases? I know a guy who in his late 20s suddenly developed a severe peanut allergy. He'd been eating plenty of PB&amp;J prior to that. Yeah this isn't universal. It's why there are so many old wives' tales about allergies; it's somewhat inconsistent and if you wanna exposure-reduce allergies you gotta do it under a doctor's management. I was just researching food allergies the other day as it turns out a friend was told her daughter is allergic to nuts, including pistachios, even though pistachios were one of her favorite foods and she ate them daily without any problems.  So I looked into it a bit.  Turns out the skin prick test, which is the most common test used, has about a 50% false positive rate.  Most people, including many doctors, believe that with a 50% false positive rate, if you test positive that it means you have a 50% chance of actually having it.  Turns out ... not so much.  Bayes Theorem comes into play here, which makes the stats a bit more complex as you need to take into account the probability of the general population having a food allergy - which is about 1%.

What this means is that you have no symptoms, and you get a skin prick test that shows you are allergic, you actually have about a 1 in 50 chance of actually being allergic.  This tells me that we drastically over-diagnose food allergies.  Granted, the stats are different if you are showing symptoms, but I think many parents get it done out of routine.  

Now, if that were the end of the story, I could almost understand the reason for the over-diagnosis.  After all, it is much better to save peoples lives by over-diagnosing, as the number of deaths from food allergies is high.  Right?   ...right?

Eh ... not so much.  Turns out in around 1998, the US introduced a cause-of-death code specific to food allergies, allowing statistics to be gathered that are more accurate.  We must have, what, 1000s of deaths per year, right?  Nope.  Hundreds?  Nope.  In 2005, we had ... 11.  Eleven deaths.

As a parent I used to be terrified I'd accidentally kill a kid by feeding a peanut to a kid that was allergic - not so much anymore.  And I'm definitely on board with the idea that people just give their kids the foods they are allergic to and seeing if they can knock down the allergy, assuming their reaction isn't at the "terrifying" level.  

And then I'd do it at the doctors office :D

 Do keep in mind for anyone who is or knows someone with a particular food allergy.  This maybe saying exposing particular 'allergens' in a developing immune system could desensitise future reactions. But be very careful how you interpret this data, because how the immune system works is that once it is exposed to a pathogen or 'allergen', it will mount a faster response to subsequent exposures. Just like how vaccines help mount a quicker response to prevent diseases, initial minor allergic reactions could become fast anaphylactic reactions to future exposures. Just a word of warning to take this information with a grain of salt. Thank you for posting this. As someone who went through the "exposure therapy" thing at a young age and had to sit there feeling my lungs close off, some people just don't get it, and it's a damn dangerous game to play just so you can eat peanut products around your child. My family doctor tried it on me over three sessions, and it got worse every single time. I have no outside signs that I'm dying; no hives, no swelling of the face, just my throat closing and burning. Peanuts have a very acrid smell and taste to me, kind of like caustic soda but sharper. Ingesting them is what I imagine it feels like to have gasoline go down your throat then have someone drop a lit match into your mouth. It's been about 15 years since the therapy attempts and now my allergy is to the point where I can't eat certain related legumes without having a minor anaphylactic response, and despite me carrying two epipens at all times it's very likely I'd die before they got me to the hospital if I ate a peanut. 

I hate it when research is presented with clickbait headlines, specifically for that reason that there's some parent out there who's going to read this headline and glance over a poorly written news article, be misled, and try this at home without doctor supervision. Feeling yourself slowly choke to death and knowing you're totally helpless without medical intervention is the most horrific feeling I've ever experienced, and the thought of it happening to a person toddler aged or younger who can't express the pain they're experiencing well enough that someone takes them seriously and calls emergency services hurts my heart. &gt;Do keep in mind for anyone who is or knows someone with a particular food allergy.

Uh, actually, don't? This study showed that early exposure to peanut allergy could *prevent* peanut allergy. After you already have the allergy, as you say, repeated exposure might only reinforce it.

This is true for many allergenic foods, and it looks like the critical period for food exposure is pretty early. For potatoes, exposure should be ideally before 4 months, oats before 5 months, meat before 5.5 months, wheat before 6 months, rye before 7 months, fish before 8 months, and eggs before 10 months to prevent allergy: http://pediatrics.aappublications.org/content/125/1/50.short

When you're an infant, you have an ineffective immune system that doesn't develop reactions to most things; this is why we don't immediately vaccinate kids with everything at birth, because they won't mount immune responses. For the same reason, they won't mount immune responses to foods.  The study specifically mentions how many kids with the early signs of peanut allergies actually developed a severe allergy.  Probably not a great idea to just start feeding your child peanuts. These kids were given extremely tiny increments slowly increasing over a long time. I am allergic to peanuts but I've slowly been growing out of my allergy naturally.  If your child is being weaned, exposing them to allergenic foods in general reduces their later risk of allergies. That includes all the allergenic foods that have been tested- peanuts, nuts, wheat, eggs, fish, etc. Continuing to breastfeed while including these foods also reduces the risk of allergies. http://pediatrics.aappublications.org/content/125/1/50.short

If your child is already known to be allergic to a food, giving them the food won't "prevent" the allergy, because that's not how prevention works.  Growing from a South East Asian country, this is how the people build up resistance to hot and spicy food, and also durian. As a child, i couldn't stand those type of food and now as an adult, it is the opposite. When ordering in a local restaurant, saying this meal is for a child and the restaurant would understand to dial down the spiciness level. Children are in general more sensitive to smells and tastes, in the literal sense that they can smell and taste things in smaller concentrations, and experience it more strongly.  

To at least some extent, you're not building tolerance, your sense of smell and taste are simply deadened in your old age. Durian is fantastic. I tried it for the first time whilst living in Hawaii. I can only get the frozen crap now. :c If you don't mind me asking... How old are you and how can you tell you're growing out of it?

My niece is 6 and deathly allergic. I only want her to be able to enjoy a Resses one day you know? How did you start noticing you were "less" allergic?  Your niece is probably much better off in life without a Reese's. (Send it my way..) Halloween is the best because she can't eat anything at all. I'm not allergic to anything at all either.. my little cousins allergic and one day I was moments away from introducing her to nuttella before she walked off and later i casually asked what she was allergic to and my aunty said 'all nuts'. But i'm a bit sceptical because she's never had a reaction(but has an epipen). The closest i've seen is when she apparently had some peanut butter on the edge of her cup and she complained her mouth was tingly(nothing happened despite being rushed to hospital). And my damn grandma blamed it on me for leaving the peanut butter out I've had some run ins with peanuts. Didn't realize said product had peanuts in it. I always caught it. Never needed my epipen. Benadryl always worked.  In HS I had some peanut product and didn't do anything and didn't react. I was retested after HS and the severity level dropped significantly since I found out in preschool. Anytime I encountered peanuts the worst that happened was a tingly feeling in my mouth. 

The latest reaction was when some peanuts were in an unmarked Asian dish at my work cafeteria. I didn't react until 3 hours later when I was coming home from my afternoon run. That was a terrible reaction but benadryl took care of that.  It probably isn't a great idea, but it's exactly how I found out I'm no longer allergic to peanuts: one day my mum 'accidentally' fed me Crunchy Nut Cornflakes and I lived to tell the tale. &gt; I am allergic to peanuts but I've slowly been growing out of my allergy naturally. 

Yeah, the first sentence in the post is absolutely moronically structured.  It's less about simply eating peanuts, and more about a careful process of getting your body to not flip the fuck out when eating things such as peanuts and dairy that otherwise aren't a big part of our diet.   Isn't that what I said.  I can add this: Growing up in the old days 70s and 80s, when I went to school there was not ONE peanut allergy in my life. NOT ONE. The odd bee sting allergy, but that was it. The peanut thing didn't exist. Let your kids eat mud cakes, roll with pets, build their immunity. Peanut Allergies are because of Hovering Cotton Wool Parents. I agree, these days parents are so worried about their kids choking on peanuts that they ignore the risk of their child developing a life threatening allergy later in life. Taking excessive precautions is  the reason that hospitals are full of MRSA and other super resistant bacteria and viruses, Well that's a great broad stroke and easy for you to say, and until a week ago i would have agreed. I'm not a helicopter parent and my son rolls around with the cats and eats most of what we eat. 

Then my ten month old had a tiny piece of bread with PB (his second time, the first he got a tiny hive on mouth) and he exploded in hives all over. 

We didn't keep anything from him and he even had peanut products before. Now we're told to get rid of ALL peanut products from the house and have an epi pen close by.  I also think any allergy benefits the Big Pharma. The Medical world encouraged this peanut phenomena to happen....

I never heard of Penut allergy, never. I didn't even know about peanut allergies until I was already a man. There also weren't iphones and dora the explorer either.  [deleted] We had 3000 kids in my high school...do the math. Reducing the # of people doesn't change percentages. This is not the reason we have allergies, grandpa. It's grandma. Tell me why there were no allergies with 3000 kids on campus, and in the same school there are peanut bans now? What is the difference? Parental paranoia  and encouragement from doctors and pharma that can always make a buck when a new allergy phenomena arises.....oh and the lawyers. OMG THIS IS SO RIGHT. I let my kid get dirty, play with our cat and dog, let colds run their course and didn't run to the doctor for antibiotics even fed him healthy foods. When he was 1.5 give him some peanut butter and he had difficulty breathing. Took him to the hospital, tests were done. Peanut allergy. Later that week at daycare, somehow he ate peanut butter when we told them he couldn't have it, throat swelled up, couldn't breath, given epipen and rushed to the hospital via ambulance. If only I did the things you said and wasn't a Hovering Cotton Wool Parent. 

TL;DR You're foolish. Im not suggesting you don't treat him, how you got that from my comment I have no idea....I am saying, my era had not one peanut allergy, now they are everywhere, why the phenomena now?  You gave me an emotional personal response, understandably, but you didn't address my question. Why the phenomena now??? &gt;  Let your kids eat mud cakes, roll with pets, build their immunity. Peanut Allergies are because of Hovering Cotton Wool Parents.

Re-read your comment. You asked no questions. You put the blame on parents hovering. As a parent of a child with a severe allergy, nothing pisses us off more than someone who puts the blame on the parent because I'm willing to bet that the vast majority of us would give our lives if it meant our kids wouldn't have the allergy (a sentiment that goes beyond allergies as most parents would give their lives up if it meant that their children would be better for it).

Emotions aside, for your question of "why now" there are different theories. One is the way the US processes nuts. I cannot find the link but it was along the lines of how we process our nuts (e.g., dry roasting). This doesn't make a lot of sense since the peanut protein still exists regardless of the roasting process (doesn't get hot enough to breakdown the protein). There is a difference in  peanut oil, cold press isn't safe but heat processed is safe because the heat is so high it breaks down the protein that is dangerous. Another theory is the way we treat crops, what is added to the soil, pesticides, genetically modifying, etc. To me this line of theories seems more plausible.

From what I've read nothing has been pin pointed as to why it appears more now compared to 30yrs ago. Speaking anecdotally, there were no peanut allergies in my school. That doesn't mean they weren't there. As a kid I really only cared about myself and friends. Schools also didn't talk about allergies all that much. A kid with a severe allergy was probably more likely to be homeschooled as epipens and such weren't publically available until the 80's and you can bet they were expensive as all hell. Before the 80's there is the likelihood that a percentage of kids with severe allergies died before starting school. Dispersing tiny hard particles through a metal to strengthen it is not new - it's commonly used in a variety of alloys, including typical aluminum and titanium alloys used for structural purposes, and is called ["precipitation hardening"](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Precipitation_hardening).  There's even "17-4 PH" precipitation hardened stainless steel.  

All alloys have trade-offs (if one were strictly better we'd just use that for everything).  Titanium alloy is light and very strong, but expensive.  Aluminum alloys are even lighter but less strong (strength/weight not necessarily as good), and are still more expensive than steels, albeit cheaper than titanium.  The cheapest possible steel is heavy and not particularly strong, but is easy to work with and is "good enough" for many applications (e.g. buildings).  More expensive steels are still heavy but can be incredibly strong.  

This new development appears to be an attempt to keep the fairly low cost of steel alloys while reducing the overall density through a high aluminum content and simultaneously increasing the strength, resulting in desirable strength/weight ratios.  The high aluminum content means they have a *lot* of the hard, brittle intermetallic particles, so they had to do some fancy processing trickery to ensure they stayed as well-dispersed tiny particles instead of joining up into great big crunchy brittle areas.  In the article, they not only successfully kept the metal from becoming brittle, but it has much higher toughness (energy absorbed during plastic deformation before ultimate failure) than the titanium alloy they tested it against.  

Whether this takes off will probably depend on whether they can scale up their production method well.  If you can only make it in small batches, I suspect it will end up as yet another more-expensive-but-sometimes-worthwhile high specific strength alloy, but if you can make tons and tons of it they might be onto something very interesting.  Ease of manufacturing is also important- welding is a very popular manufacturing technique, but it can be a pain in the ass on something like this, since letting the metal melt and re-solidify ruins all the careful processing effort you put in to get the microstructure just right.  You could end up with great big brittle precipitates in the heat-affected zone, which would make the weld way less durable than the rest of the metal- never a good position to be in, unless you like your products falling apart at the seams.   I have a question because you seem knowledgeable in this topic:

would it be possible to manage the dispersion and distribution of these crystals magnetically?

(at least in a rather small, localized area to facilitate welding)

obviously the strength comes from having the hard crystals dispersed throughout the material rather evenly. but problems arise when the crystals form into veins, thats at least what i'm understanding.

would the crystals have different magnetic properties than the surrounding alloy?

if so, could you use a magnetic field (would likely be very complex, not a simple field but rather changing amplitude, polarity, and location rapidly) to sort of "mix" the alloy to try and disperse the crystals more uniformly and avoid the veins?

and if they don't have different magnetic properties, couldn't a field still be applied and used to mix up the material to ensure more even crystal distribution and avoid the long veins until the material cools?

or can this material be welded without issue?

forgive me if this a stupid question or well known impossibility in the metal working world that I am just unaware of.


 I don't think that would work.  Iron in liquid form, or even solid iron above its [Curie temperature](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Curie_temperature) of about 770 C (much lower than its melting point) isn't strongly magnetic the way room-temperature iron is, so there wouldn't be a huge difference between the iron and the iron aluminide.  I'm not sure if your idea would work even if there was such a difference, but I'm less certain about that.   thanks for the mentioning of the curie temperature - I was just picturing some poor guy  welding iron and applying a strong magnetic field - just to end up with liquid iron spluttering around because of the changing magnetic field :/ If only we had lightsaber welding. Great.  Another wave of new bike frames to buy.   &gt; or can this material be welded without issue?

No, the same issues that have always been there will show up in the weld.  Also liquid steel is not magnetic, and as it first solidifies it is austenitic, which is non magnetic.  It will eventually phase change to ferrite, which is magnetic, but at that point the matrix is practically frozen into place. Welding of alloy is mostly tricky. The weld pool is liquid, and new crystal are formed when it solidifies. This mostly means that it destroys the previous heat treatments and structures. So my guess is that The new weld will have some brittle problems.

In the article they describe that they rolled the steel to give spread the crystals. This might be a good material for sheet metal, used in car industry. Some car manufactures are glueing cars together instead of welding. 

It is a bit unfair to equate this new steel to titanium. Since titanium at higher temperatures it keeps it's stiffness(in equation to steel). 
 Hey I am a material student really behind on his study, but how do you weld an alloy if its not eutectic? Couldn't you just make the metal alloy at the factory with weldable alloy compositions at the areas you would want to later weld?  Is there a reason the composition of a beam or sheet of metal need be uniform? If material is not uniform, the construction needs more material to get the same stiffness. This is typically something to avoid, since this increases weight and often power requirements(of the construction).

Also the reason you need the metal to be uniform is that constructions break/bend at the weakest point. Impurities are often a starting point for a crack/corrosion. Welds are often in places with increased stresses(connection points). 

There are ways around it. But would you want a complicated weld, where loads of things can go wrong or do you want to connect 2 components. Don't underestimate modern adhesives.  it is valid question, but magnetic mixing is hard to do for molten ferrous metals (temperature of liquid steel is way above Curie temperature)

One marginal option is that some kind of mixing is done like in induction furnaces (both open and vacuum ones) in time when alloying with Al would be done and just before pouring it.

But it is energy hungry process as is everything in metallurgy. In this situation would structural adhesive provide the key to assembly with this type of material? While it is nowhere near my field of study I have taken an interest in the fact that vehicles in particular are increasingly "glued" together rather than welded in order to help join dis-similar metals or join a seam which would be otherwise extremely difficult to weld with resistance weld guns. If the structural adhesive is capable of withstanding the required forces, it could allow for further advancement of using high strength alloys only where required to keep cost, weight, and process difficulties down.  Adhesive, sure.  Also nuts, bolts, and rivets.  We routinely hurl people through the air in cans  made of precipitation hardened aluminum alloy, so this is hardly new territory for us.  Corrosion is actually the biggest problem, considering how iron and aluminum tend to behave together. I always read the top comments in these clickbait miracle-substance posts because it usually explains why the title is misleading.  Keep up the good work! I have same concern about large scale production for continous pour of slabs, because doing such thing in lab is one, doing it for 100t or 150t batch is another. 

My quick quess is, that everything after melting and purifying scrap steel in EAF will have to be done in vacuum furnace (alloying with Al, heating to pour temperature) just to keep oxygen away from aluminium.

Not to mention, what kind of adaptations will have to be made on contipour part to protect hot slabs from excessive oxidation of top layer alloy.

But i coud be very wrong too, it is brand new alloy to begin with.
 Another problem is that precipitation hardened alloys tend to age much faster than traditional materials and therfore need regular checkups and replacement. Makes them fine for aircraft where you need strict maintenance anyway but it limits applications  Some times the problem isn't just strength/weight, but strength/volume. The list for PH steels goes a lot father than just 17-4 as well.  Some that come to mind:  15-5PH (martensitic), Waspaloy &amp; Inconel (trademarked superalloys).
 I was under the impression that titanium was expensive because it was hard, which made it difficult to work with, not because it was rare. Wouldn't any metal as hard or harder than titanium have this issue? But will it not rust under normal circumstances? That's one of the major selling points of Titanium (and Aluminium) that the thin oxidation layer prevents oxidation of the rest. Quoting from the article:


Currently, steelmakers use a silicate layer to cover and protect mass-produced steel from oxidation with the air and contamination from the foundry. This silicate can't be used for Kim's steel because it has a tendency to react with the cooling aluminum, compromising the final product. Before we starting building skyscrapers out of super-steel, they'll have to figure out a way to protect the material out in the real world. sacrificial anodes? This guy. After spending billions of dollars trying to stop corrosion on naval ships, engineers decided to control corrosion by placing large sacrificial anodes on the hulls of ships. These corrode and they replace them at determined intervals to contain the corrosive reaction. In case anyone else needed to look that up: 

&gt; Sacrificial anodes works on the principle similar to electrolysis, according to which [if an anode and a metallic strip are dipped in electrolytic solution](http://www.marineinsight.com/wp-content/uploads/2010/11/corrossion1-199x300.jpg), anode electron will dissolve and deposit over the metallic strip and make it cathode.


&gt; In the case of a ship, sea water acts as an electrolyte and transfers the electrons from the anode by oxidizing it over the steel plate and making a protecting layer. If the metal is more active it will be easily oxidized and will protect the metallic compound by making it act as cathode. The anode will corrode first sacrificing itself for the other compound and it is thus called sacrificial anode.
 I was holding on to hope that sacrificial anodes were more ritualistic. An offering to appease the rust gods. They're great. The water gods protect my boiler. Forgot to renew the sacrificial offering once and sin started to spread from within. Yet to see an affordable, good boiler that doesn't need it. Enamel coating just isn't good enough yet. Which is essentially the point of galvanization of steel with zinc. I'm betting they galvanize this stuff as well. They may not be able to add a zinc layer that is protective as it is to low alloy steels, because zinc has a much closer resting potential to aluminum. So this new alloy will have different corrosive properties.  With this addition of aluminum it may have the passive layer that grows, though I can't say for sure as I do not know the composition of the material. You're right, Zinc is more noble than Aluminum by almost a volt. It won't work for protecting Al and Al alloys. If they wanted to protected it though magnesium would work in a galvanic couple. Yeah, let's throw a couple of tons of magnesium in the sea and see what happens. (Actually, let's do that! Sounds really cool) yes... i know some of these words.
 Wow. This is the best TIL that I've had in a long time, thanks. IIRC they use giant zinc plates as sacrificial anodes on bridge supports in saltwater, too. [deleted] And parking garages.  Got to protect that rebar.   TIL.  Makes huge sense. This is how galvanized steel works, but I believe they will run into the same problems that they did with the traditional silicate coating. They are material engineers, so I'm sure this is one of the first things they thought of, I learned about this in like my first MATE class, probably even before that in chemistry. Zinc, what a hell of a guy! Works best in water, where the conductivity of the water ensures that a single anode can cover a large area (an entire boat hull, for small boats).

Sacrificial anodes on cars never became a thing, because they only work in a small radius around the anode.

So you need so many, that you might as well just plate it. ONLY works in water/electrolyte. It works in damp soil. This is how they protect pipelines from corrosion.

Won't work for this alloy though; it's not noble enough. [deleted] Not true, Cathodic Protection is used on a variety of underground structures, supports, and utilities.

I've installed and tested several systems on dams, water mains, and substructural support beams. Build underwater, genetically engineer gills into the human genome. Then people can live in the ocean and lakes and stuff. Future engineer right here, ladies and gentlemen. Only work when both materials are immersed in electrolyte. Sacrificial anodes do not apply to corrosion cells not immersed in an electrolyte.  If you want to protect your asset in soil or water then it would apply (eg pipelines, ship hulls, hot water tank).   It's referring  to the silicate in the slag during the melting process. The steel tends to pick up that stuff. But slag doesn't really stick to the steel. Or to itself really. Or to anything except under my fingernails. 

And characterizing slag as "silicate" is inaccurate. When you add lime (the mineral not the fruit) to a silica-based melt, it breaks up the silicate matrices. 

A typical steel slag (depending heavily on the steel grade) typically contains:

* 60% Cao  
* 6% MgO  
* 30% total of Si+Al oxides  
* Balance FeO and residuals  

...well, for a ladle slag anyway. It's rare to see one above 30% silica, and even that high is bad.  I knew there was another steelmaker on Reddit somewhere. Nice to meet you! Stainless steel contains a certain amount of nickel, but I believe it's the Chromium that inhibits the rust.

Perhaps the answer is there somewhere. As I said in another comment further down this thread, only stainless and weathering steels have an impermeable oxide coating. We do add silicon or aluminium to liquid steel when we tap it in the furnace in order to lower the dissolved oxygen content. Will it weld? The closest material I can think of is duplex stainless steel and that is a major pain in the ass to weld correctly. It's gotta be better than welding titanium though, I'd think.. Stainless and Ti are a very similar process.  I was under the impression from my limited knowledge about Soviet Submarine construction that Ti needed to be welded in an inert gas environment. Is stainless like that too? Stainless has a whole host of problems when welded, due to precipitate formation (weld decay) around the weld zone. Regular stainless will form chromium carbides leeching the surrounding protective chrome leading to two channels adjacent to the weld which will corrode. Look up knife line attack. It's good stuff.  Cool! that inert gas environment is what welding with MIG or TIG will give you Thats not always a sufficient supply of gas though.  Alot of times it has to be performed within an argon filled container, especially with thin walled pieces where the back of the weld needs to be shielded as well. I'm a GMAW guy, but from a little exposure to stainless I'm going to say "it depends". I should've said *some* grades are very similar. You can get away TIG welding some grades of stainless in a non static environment. I'm slowly backing away from my confident statement above. 

*refer to the welding engineer currently below but soon to be above this comment.  No. You can also torch weld and silver braze stainless.  That would be expensive. Welding Ti isn't particularly hard; you just need better gas shielding than steel or aluminum. Probably not very well. I imagine that when the molten metal solidifies the brittle intermetallic will precipitate into long veins.  Best question in the thread - if you can't weld it, then it's usefulness significantly decreases.  Might be useful in stamped metal applications, like car parts then.

Maybe they'll invent a new welding technique, so the AlFe strands don't form. Probably not easily.  Anything with these sorts of fine strengthening precipitates (including many aluminum and titanium alloys...) are a pain in the ass to weld- when you melt the metal during welding and let it solidify again it ruins all the hard work you put into getting the microstructure just right, making the weld zone weaker than the rest.  Or in this case you might get giant blobs of brittle precipitate instead of nice tiny finely dispersed ones, so it ends up horrendously brittle.   Welding engineer - no.  The way they control the formation of intermetallics wouldn't be workable with current welding technology.  You'd get super brittle welds. **EDIT:** I've gone and looked up the *Nature* article linked to in OP's link; or, at least the abstract and the tables. 9.6% aluminium is an absolute gobful and trying to cast it must be an absolute pain in the arse, as aluminium oxide precipitates float around in the liquid steel and clog the casting nozzles. Also, the precipitate hardening is done during heat-treatment of the cold-rolled steel.


Steelmaker here: so we currently use aluminium (or silicon) in steel to kill (deoxidise) the liquid when pouring it out from the furnace; it's the best deoxidant around and we add up to 0.1% by weight. We also use it for grain refinement (making the microscopic metal crystals smaller) by adding up to 0.03wt%; again, we can use vanadium+nitrogen, niobium/colombium or titanium to achieve the same effect but aluminium is the best grain refiner, or 'microalloy'.

When we roll microalloyed steel (e.g with V &amp; N), we heat-soak it first to ensure that the V and N are fully dissolved, or 'in solution' in the austenite phase (this is the type of crystal structure that steel takes above ~700C), we roll at this temperature, where the microalloying ensures the grains don't grow so big as they recrystallize between passes, and then we ensure that the final rolled product is put onto the cooling bed above the solution temperature, where the microalloying limits grain growth, but also forms a fine dispersion of precipitates when the steel cools below the V+N solution temperature. This 'Precipitation hardening' is what the researchers are saying they've done with aluminium.

The thing is, we already use aluminium to precipitate-harden stainless steel and, as above, precipitate-hardening with other microalloys is well-known. I reckon the key bit of research is determining the role of nickel (which is a common alloy in stainless) and applying it to non-stainless steels, and the solution temperatures for rolling.

And finally, a nitpick: stainless and weathering steels are the only steels with oxide coatings. As I mentioned above, we can use silicon for killing the liquid as it's tapped.
 Strength to weight is nice, but I wish the article went into the fatigue characteristics of the material. 

If the B2 crystals can't be controlled they will likely be location of micro cracks during fatigue testing. 
 Crack propagation?  Weld-ability?  There's all kinds of materials out there that are amazing but have nasty properties that preclude their more common uses.
 Like Asbestos? Such an awesome material. A shame really. Finally someone agrees with me.
Seriously great product horrible side effects Takes my breath away... While I haven't read it personally the paper most likely will focus on how they were able to achieve the crystalline structure. Fatigue will come later when the study is built upon by the material engineers. When can I get a bike made out of it?  Asking the important questions. 

Fingers crossed at least.  The thing is, titanium frames aren't expensive because of the cost of the material. They're expensive because making a titanium frame is difficult. If this new alloy is cheaper than titanium, but just as hard to work with, it will barely make a difference in price.

There already are very high quality steel alloys used in making bicycles. They are almost as expensive as titanium in the end, because working with them is much more expensive than working with regular Cro-Mo steel. I was thinking the same.   If it it is almost as good as titanium it will be rather revolutionary in the bicycle world if it can weld, but then you will also have to coat it because its not impervious to the elements like titanium.  and you will always have internal corrosion of the tubes from any accumulated water. Corrosion is already a problem with steel frames so I imagine that the current methods to guard against it (paint and coatings) will also work. Well, combining Al and Fe Presents a whole lot of new problems in terms of corrosive properties, so I'm not entirely sure the existing methods of protecting will be sufficient, but we'll see what they come up with. Last year I actually wrote my bsc-thesis based around tests with Al-Fe-couplings in a salt water environment, and Al corrodes dangerously fast. the issue of being weldable has not yet been addressed Bonding is always an option though.  yea people are mentioning brazing and bonding.

i suppose thats a valid point.

will definitely be a few years until we see this material being used though Welding engineer here - it's not weldable. Only if it's lighter.  Or cheaper It's both  Yeah, it literally says both of those things in the title... That's the only reason they knew It also has to be weldable. No it doesn't.  The return of high end lugged steel bikes. Yes please. [Rivendell](http://www.rivbike.com) 
 Exactly where my mind went. [deleted] But is it as strong as titanium? And is it light? What about price though? It has to be cheaper. 1/10 the price would be good. That would be revolutionary in the bicycle world.  Would anyone even be able to create such a thing? How about that? Yes.

Steel has always been stronger than titanium actually.  But titanium has a better strength to weight *ratio*.  Steel is a harder metal, makes a better knife edge, etc.  but it is heavy!

This new material is an iron-aluminum alloy 18% lighter than normal Steel.

that means this new alloy will have a better weight to strength ratio, which is what really matters. Stiffness counts too.

But cue the "steel is real" chorus.

Chorus was not intended as a Campy pun. Slow claps. The issue though might be stupidly small wall thickness.

There are already issues with some current steel frames being very easy to dent compared to aluminum.

Don't want to imagine what would happen if it's even thinner. No, it's lighter than current steel alloys.   Not lighter than titanium alloys. This is correct. It has the SAME strength-to-weight ratio as titanium alloy while being 10X cheaper. Not really, carbon is already a lot better than titanium.  Sure carbon is better than titanium, but if you're comparing carbon to something 1/10 the price of titanium then it is a different conversation. Also if it is easy to work with (shaping, welding, etc) then you are talking about a phenomenal alternative option for carbon. Cost plays a huge role in choosing materials and if you're in the same neighborhood of performance but a fraction of the cost, then there's a huge market for that in the cycling world. Obviously world class cyclists on pro tours will still use carbon but when the average joe wrecks his bike there isn't a team car ready with three more ready to replace it. A weldable/fixable frame with that price point and performance would do quite well in the cycling market. IMHO not. 

You have scandium alloyed frames, pure Ti frames, etc. on market to buy, but they are already niche products, because practically anything lightweight is done with carbon and carbon composite frames.

For affordable bicycles there are Al frames that are quite good for what they are cheap to make and still light, but the majority of weight in cheap bicycles comes from components, not frame.

Except for some enthusiasts, every single high performance bicycle (road race, time trial, hardtails, XC and XCM) is based on carbon fibre frames. Just look at top segment from Bianchi, Pinarello, Wilier, Look, Specialized, Merida, Trek, etc.

Only perhaps for downhill and simmiliar there is some space to sell such Fe-Al frames.

1994 was last time when Indurain with steel frame won Tour, 1998 was last time when Pantani did it with Al frame. After that professional teams just stopped using metallic frames. 

And every single steel outside stainless steels group RUSTS. so you will need corrosion protection across entire frame including inside tubes to prevent it from rusting.
And we do not know how are welding properties of such material when used for thin pipes. I was thinking the same thing. I bet Columbus is watching closely. or a car As metallurgist and cyclist: Stick to carbon frames, they do their job splendidly. The only type of cycles I can think of at the moment that could benefit are gravity disciplines like downhill, 4cross, enduro where there is possiblity of impactss that carbon is not good against.

There will be major problems before large scale adoptation will be possible, because there are unanswered qustions about welding properties, post-welding heat treatment and corrosion protection. Ha, I was about to post that exact sentence until I scrolled one more line. It would be pretty revolutionary, particularly in bmx where air hardened chromoly is the best feasible material for frames right now The strength to weight ratio will never touch that of carbon fiber. 

https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Specific_strength
 I would assume this would retain the same machinability as Steel, with the strength of Titanium? If so, that would be amazing, because Titanium is kind of difficult to machine compared to Steel.  &gt; I would assume this would retain the same machinability as Steel, with the strength of Titanium?

I doubt it. If the crystalline phase intermixed with the 'normal' steel is brittle, it's also likely hard, and hard to machine.

&gt; Titanium is kind of difficult to machine compared to Steel.

Kind of, but not that much worse if you know what you're doing (namely, heavy cuts to prevent work-hardening of the surface, plus appropriate speeds and cutter geometry). I'd put my money on this stuff being abrasive in a way that Ti (my experience is with grades 2 &amp; 5) isn't.  FeAl has a harness of about 59Rc ([600-650V)](http://www.academia.edu/5798844/Study_on_formation_and_characterization_of_iron_aluminide_coatings_on_9Cr_1Mo_steel_substrate) So you've got crystals with the same hardness as the cobalt binder used in most sintered tungsten carbide tooling ([there is research into FeAl as a replacement for Co in WC-Co composites](https://unit.aist.go.jp/mrisus/en/group/advint.html)) in a steel matrix.  Plus you can't use diamond like you would on hard non-ferrous metals or ceramics because it will react with the iron.  I wouldn't want to touch the stuff. Presumably water or laser cutting then.
 Water yes, laser would probably affect the metal structure from heading and cooling. Also a much more limited option than a CNC mill. True, but for structural applications this would be less of a problem. The thing with steel is that you can't say that steel is easy or hard to machine.

It really depends on the alloy and on its hardness. And your coatings on the tooling. Yeah, but where's my transparent aluminum? [On your guided missiles.](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Transparent_ceramics#Sapphire_2) That's alumina, not aluminum.  Completely different properties. [Peer-reviewed journal entry](http://www.nature.com/nature/journal/v518/n7537/full/nature14144.html) pay wall
 Ductility = almost no fatigue like ti?  Its (more or less) bendability. But not the strength after bending or it's the same as ti?  You're talking about two different things here.

Ductility applies when you stress a material beyond its [yield point](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Yield_(engineering\)).  Below the yield point, the material will spring back to its original shape and size if you let go.  Above the yield point, they will spring back a bit, but will still have permanent deformation.  This is not time- or cycle-dependent.  It can happen the first time you use the material, or the millionth time.  A more ductile material will deform more after yielding before it cracks or snaps.  A less ductile (more brittle) material may not even yield at all - it will just snap.

Fatigue is cycle-dependent.  It's when you stress something below the yield point (no permanent deformation/bending) so many times that microscopic cracks begin forming, causing below-yield failure.  The number of cycles to failure is measured in powers of ten: "low-cycle" fatigue is like 10^4 cycles, while materials with higher endurance can go to like 10^9 cycles.  Fatigue is usually plotted on an [S-N Curve](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:S-N_curves.PNG).  The y-axis is stress level, the x-axis is the number of cycles at that stress level.  If you go above the line, the material fails.

When people talk about a material being good in fatigue, what they usually mean is that the material has an [endurance limit](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fatigue_limit).  This is what you see with the blue steel curve in the example S-N curve in the picture above.  Notice how below a certain stress level, it flattens out?  That's the endurance limit.  If you don't load it above that stress level, there is no fatigue failure.  You could cycle load on/off that material for the entire lifetime of the planet, and it wouldn't fail in fatigue.

Steel and titanium both have an endurance limit.  Aluminum does not - it continues sloping downward no matter the stress level.  This is why maintenance of aircraft fuselages is such a big deal - they go through thousands and thousands of pressurization/depressurization cycles, so they are a real fatigue risk.  

So your question, reworded, is rather apt: steel has an endurance limit, but aluminum doesn't, so does a steel-aluminum alloy have one?  The article doesn't say.  But "strength after bending" isn't the same as fatigue.  Steel, titanium, and aluminum all actually get stronger after bending.  It's called [work hardening](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Work_hardening). Thanks for the clarification. As silly as this is, I was just thinking about a ti spork i had. i packed it for years by bending it to a circle - it didn't poke anything and it fit in my mug. Wait seriously? That is something i would love to do with my Ti spork. How hard is it to bend? easy - i had a snowpeak and bent it every meal of every trip until i lost it :)

at least a hundred iterations Wouldnt it be easier to just pack it somewhere flat? You've never lost your spork because it wasn't in your eating kit? I have. Annoying as all hell. Keeping it inside your mug is a great idea. Hmm sounds like a close to commercially pure titanium alloy.   Probably grade 1 or 2.  Once you get further from pure the strength and ductility goes down quite a bit.   I have some different ti grades in my office that are pretty thin and they don't bend at all. Something that always bothered me is what causes the eventual fatigue failure of aluminum?  Does loading/unloading crack the aluminum's oxide layer and eventually embrittle the material?  Or is there some other mechanism that limits its lifespan? From the article: "Kim's team has created the new metal on a small scale. But before it can be mass-produced, researchers must confront a tricky production issue." Until they solve this issue and figure out how to mass-produce the new alloy, how on earth do they know it will be 10% of the previous cost? The solution to mass production might end up being very expensive to implement. They are making that projection based on the relative costs of the metals used, obviously.  Titanium is *expensive*. Diamonds are made of carbon.  Rubies: aluminum oxide.  Software: mountain dew, curses, and programmers' tears.  All cheap raw materials, but it's the production costs that are expensive ;) Diamond are fairly cheap to make, really.  Particularly if you don't care if they are perfect. And here I was under the impression the imperfections and inclusions of natural diamonds was used to distinguished them from synthesized diamonds. Yeah I'm sure their estimate was dumb like that and their paper still got accepted. Sure, but until you know how you're actually going to make the stuff, the costs of your input materials might not be the main contributing factor to cost. When you hear phrases such as "10 times" or "100 times," those numbers are not there to give you precise estimates, but order-of-magnitude comparisons. Saying it will be "a tenth of the cost" is a way to communicate the idea of "an order of magnitude less cost" to people that may not have experience with these kinds of numbers. they noted that it used commercially available heat treatment and rolling equipment. Shouldnt be that bad.  [deleted] Wonder how hard welding with that would be, steel is easy but aluminum is a different beast.  I would think that because of the crystalline structure being so important to the strength of the material, welding would be incredibly difficult  With those B2 crystals, it will be like welding three metals simultaneously. Good question though as any metal is pointless unless it can be welded. Keeping it square during the welding process is going to be a chore. My guess is that shit will contract at different rates. Who knows where your 90deg will end up. With all the different phases I wonder if it would be like welding cast iron, I.e. a gigantic pain in the ass. probably yes and the welding rod will be very pricy as well  And you're going to have a heat-affected zone from hell when all that shit recrystallizes into some unhappy brittle mess. You mean... lugged frames will be making a comeback?   Ohhhh... I wonder if Nervex will fire up for this? The excitement he shows towards other scientists cooking up even better alloys using his methods is heartening. Put a smile on my face to read that part [deleted] [deleted] Anyone wanna share more of the new amazing materials that have been created in recent years?

I'll start

Aluminium oxynitride

http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Aluminium_oxynitride

http://i.imgur.com/K0XbuJP.png

Lead tungstate crystals 

http://cms.web.cern.ch/news/crystal-calorimeter

http://cms.web.cern.ch/sites/cms.web.cern.ch/files/styles/large/public/field/image/ECALcrystals_0.jpg?itok=oVkNPOnM [deleted] [deleted] Because the [commenting rules](http://www.reddit.com/r/science/wiki/rules#wiki_comment_rules) on /r/science say "Comments must be on topic and not a meme or joke. Comments must strive to add to the understanding of a topic or be an attempt to learn more."

There was another one way higher up, but it looks like it got deleted, presumably for violating the comment rules.   [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] Regular steel corrodes too. So we can do things like nickle plate it give it a good paint job. 

I am willing to bet welding depletes a lot of strength or makes this stuff brittle. [deleted] So i wasn't the first to think this.  Titanium is not as strong as common steel. It's just lighter weight/strength ratio? What's it like for welding and machining? Titanium is a bitch to weld, but if it could be welded like steel, it would be amazing.  News like this is always encouraging, but there are *so* many steps between the lab and the factory that it's very rare that "miraculous" progress in the former leads to the same kind of results in the latter. There appear to be some inconsistencies in the language used in the Wired article.

&gt;This new metal has a strength-to-weight ratio that matches even our best titanium alloys
 
vs
 
&gt;13 percent less dense compared to normal steel, and has almost the same strength-to-weight ratio compared to titanium alloys

Which is it? I don't have free access to the actual publication. Can't wait to see this in Formula 1 or spaceships!  but does the process to make it, make it more or less expensive to make than titanium.  I work in a steel processing mill, where we do pickling, annealing, and drawing. How would this steel hold up going through a dye in a draw block? If its coming from a mill it would most likely have to be  processed to be used in any application such as buildings or automotive Much worse problems than whether it makes it through downstream processing like yours.  It doesn't work with current refectories and slag chemistry.   Meh.  My lab just injected graphene into aluminium and it's now 5,000x stronger than titanium. Mass production of graphene on a large scale for skyscrapers is probably not feasible though right?  How heavy is it? Can it also undergo two phase changes like titanium?  [deleted] Can we call this durasteel? I think it's time we really have a material called durasteel.   Is it easier to machine than titanium?  /u/Vailhem has managed to find [another article](http://www.reddit.com/r/materials/comments/2uy0ku/new_advanced_steel_is_stronger_and_lighter_than/) that has a bit more information - namely, the high-Al alloy was already well-studied but the nickel addition was critical to forming small nodules of the FeAl inter metallic compound, which is crucial for the ductility increase. The same method is used in [ductile iron](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ductile_iron) (nodules of graphite in iron, in this case, with Mg or cerium the elements that promote this). So I wonder if the dispersion could be controlled in such a way as to have the B2 crystals coalesce into one area of the final product, like a crust which could then be cut off, leaving just the strong alloy behind. I imagine they have thought of this, and it probably isn't practical, but who knows? The article wasn't 100% clear, but I think that the B2 crystals are what make the steel strong.  The breakthrough is the process of dispersing the crystals to reduce the brittleness but retain the strength. This is correct. It works like a composite material where some parts are strong and brittle but the matrix surrounding them prevents fracture.  [deleted] I don't know for sure but my guess would be no because that would require entire grains moving through the bulk of the material.  *but Kim insists that the method is actually more important than the result.* 

Parent gets it.  The B2 crystals are the strong part. They are enormously strong but break rather than bend. What they found is that by carefully controlling where the crystals are formed the overall structure has much of the strength of the B2 crystals but doesn't shatter at its limit.

The comparison to Ti seems rather hyperbolic but commonly useful. The abstract mentions the B2 as a *second phase*.  They snuck it in there; it's an atrociously poorly written paper (not grammar, which is something that could be forgiven by language barriers). 

Some of the strongest materials we have are *composites* - a combination of two materials that can give the best properties of both. 

 Mud and straw is the simplest one - straw is strong but it can't hold a shape; mud can hold a shape but isn't strong. But if you combine them, you get a material that's almost as good as a brick. Best of both worlds. 

Iron is a funny material. With nearly the same composition, you can get two seemingly opposite materials: take a nail vs a drill bit. Nails are so flimsy that they'll fold over by *accident* if you hit them a little crooked. Then a drill bit? You can barely bend the thing if you *try*, but bend it a tiny bit, and it snaps! Wtf? 

Of course they're not the exact same steel alloy, but the REAL difference isn't the materials, **it's the way &amp; the order the iron is stacked up** - called the crystal *phase*. 

That word phase from earlier. So you have two types of phases: the "nail kind" or the "drill bit kind". It's either strong &amp; brittle, or wimpy &amp; flexible. 

In specialty steels, you can have both *phases* present. If you have most of the metal (the *matrix*) as the "nail kind", with little pieces of the "drill bit kind" mixed in, you'll get a super alloy that's both strong and flexible. 

The B2 is a strong/brittle phase - it'd be no good on its own because it would break. The trick here is getting mostly "nail kind" with little pieces of B2 mixed in. 

Hope that wasn't too long an answer, but it should address your question. 
 Can confirm, am contractor, have broken hundreds of the smaller 1/8" and below bits.  Can't wait till portable laser drills or something come out. Black &amp; Decker 1/8" diameter lightsaber w/ drill-style grip  Thanks for the detailed response. That makes sense. So in such an alloy, when pushed to its limit to the point it is bending, some of the B2 phase might be breaking, but the other phase would still be holding everything together? I remember when carbon fiber was going to be the next thing. "As strong as steel but 10x cheaper." No-one ever called carbon fiber "10x cheaper"!  When was this? I can't wait to get a bike made out of this If you already have a titanium bike, it's likely too be the same, or very very similar, but probably will need a bit more care in storage and cleaning.

The really exciting part of this is that it will put bikes with similar performance to Ti onto the market at a price point probably a 1/4th what they cost now.

I don't own a titanium bike, but my mom's husband does, and it ran him, as I recall, around $2200. Even if this only drops the cost to $500-600, that would still be amazing. Some time ago, I took a bike building class.  At the time, Ti frames were retailing for about $2500, but the tubeset only cost $600, the rest was labor, other expenses and profit.  I'm not holding my breath. Why would you want a heavy ass bike, it's only 13% less dense than steel where steel is 2.5x denser than aluminum, which is what most really light bikes are made of If the steel is as strong as titanium they can make it quite thin and light.  You'd get the smoother ride (potentially) of steel without the weight factor.  It would also make it easier to repair - it won't shatter or snap, you could just bend it back.    
  
Strong, Repairable, Light.   
  
* and cheap I thought the smooth ride was due to steel's weight and thus momentum. "and cheap"er than titanium.


 To the best of my knowledge Iron is not happy being in the same crystal structure as aluminum at room temperature. My bet is that this material can't be used in high temp applications.  ~~You're probably right, but that still leaves a lot of market open for it.~~

EDIT: Just looked into it. They added nickel to soak up the Al and form NiAl (the B2 intermatallic phase they talk about). NiAl is stupidly stable at high temperature, but impractical to use in its own right due to it's BCC crystal structure. You might hit other issues at high temperature with this alloy, but it wont be because of the aluminum. &gt;  impractical to use in its own right due to it's BCC crystal structure.

Nickel acts as an austenite stabilizer (BCC) and is use in tons of high temperature applications.  Look up applications for Inconel material. Austenite is FCC. BCC metals have issues with plastic deformation due to the low mobility of screw dislocations, which is why B2 ordered phases are typically brittle. Derped out a little bit there.  Nevertheless, nickel acts as an austenite stabilizer (see stainless steel and Inconel). I'm aware of this. Just not sure why you're bringing it up. It's cheaper to use Mn as an austenite stabilizer, so that is generally the go-to. These authors only added Ni to form the B2 ordered phase with Al. Can you expand on this? Is there room temperature recrystalization and grain growth with iron aluminum alloys?  no. so welding is out then. hmp.... In the late 1990s my school caught fire when I was in eighth grade, and we had to have class in the High School building. Classes didn't start until 12:00PM.

I remember being much more alert, and having an overall better quality of life during those months. I wish I went to that school. In fact that reminds me of the times my school would do a half day or late day, I don't know what they called it but rarely the school day would start at 12, it was incredible. I even enjoyed walking to school at that time of the day, it was relaxing. Yeah, in high school, our bus came at 5:40am. That was in the late 90s, which the article said is one period of steep drop-offs in sleep time. I remember it was so brutal, sometimes I'd go to the nurse's office "sick" just to have time to lay down. [deleted] My high school went under construction during the school year one year. It was for the entire year. I was a sophomore at the time. Freshmen/Sophomore went to school from  Noon to 5pm, Junior and Seniors went to school from 7am to Noon. That school year I made straight As in all my classes. Up from the Bs and Cs I was making the year before and after. I just had such a hard time focusing on Trigonometry and Calculus at 8am. My grades suffered because I was deliriously sleepy all the time. The parents solution was to stick me on adderall despite me not having ADD.

edit: because people care too much about werds. That's a shit deal for the upperclassmen. 

It should be reversed ....that is very very uncommon in North America at least.


EDIT: You guys can stop telling me that the classes probably started that late due to so many students having to split up the day. I agree most schools won't burn down even if you try.  I know right.

The old ones are basically 100% asbestos. The new ones are just steel and concrete. Not to mention, jet fuel can't melt steel beams. They probably had to break the day into morning and afternoon school, since they had one building for two buildings' worth of students. It happens. I think he means that the primary students only started at 12 because of trying to work into the high school schedule.  Wow I had no idea school in the US was so demanding. When I was in middle school it started at 8 and finished at 1 pm. One year I had computer club til 2pm and I thought my whole day was wasted. Playtime with my friends from 3 til 7 pm was mandatory. Then 30 mins homework. Cartoons and asleep around 9 pm.  What country is this? [deleted] Indeed Germany Had school up to 16:30 last 5 years here Which Bundesland? It only occasionally happens here in nrw.  I know it's probably germany, but it sounds identical to sweden.  And it's demanding in the wrong way. This setup helps no one; students are barely awake during their first and second hours, they learn less and do worse.  It's not more demanding. They start early and end late because until high school it is glorified day care for working parents. And as a result the school's curriculum is more demanding..  The problem is, every teacher gives out reasonable homework for their class thinking "they can get this done and still have a few hours" then after 7 classes it's 11pm and you're finally free This used to piss me off so much in high school.  Every single teacher, "Oh this assignment should only take you an hour, two at the max, and it's due tomorrow so you have no time to try and space out your week."  x7 for all your classes and when you didn't get home from whatever sport until 6:30, holy hell... I was lucky to be in bed before 2:00. Haha that describes my life exactly right now. With homework, extra curriculars, an hour commute and trying to fit some video games or time with friends in I'm lucky to get to bed before midnight, waking up at 7 every day Is homework madatory in the US curriculum?

Over here (Portugal) we got homework till the 10th grade (the first year of our version of high school), then the teachers didn't really bother. Yes, it depends on the teacher but a class without graded homework is rare where i'm from. (north carolina) Arizona, one of my teachers swears that it's necessary to hand out homework every day after class. She even calls it "busy work" if it's not new material. That's almost every teacher for me here in Pennsylvania... Just minus that last part. Ughh...my middle school was 7:40am to 2:25pm. No twelve year old should have to be up at 6:30 every morning. 

Edit: Not to mention an hour long bus ride home because the politics of the state demanded that we mix and match low income and high income kids. North Carolina represent..  [deleted] Did the start times change to be earlier since the 90's too? Serious question. I graduated in 2008, school was 7:55 to 3:20. But a pretty good majority of the students had "zero hour" for extra curricular activities (I was in marching band) and had to be there at 6:45 for that. Now add a forty minute bus ride abd you're waking up at 5:30am and rushing out the door. [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] I hope that if I have children in the future, I will remember how taxing high school can be-- early mornings, AP classes, SAT prep, late night rehearsals, piles of homework and big projects, papers, and a part time job on top of all of that. I probably slept four hours a night, and my parents were always complaining that I didn't help enough around the house, or that I was "always sleeping". I'm in my mid-twenties now, and sometimes I look back on that time and I honestly don't know how I did it. If, due to some time-travel mishap, I had to do high school over again, I'd probably drop out and go to a trade school. I got the same crap and thinking back it really upsets me how anyone could think all I did was sleep when I was lucky to get 4 hours a night all through high school and college.

The line I heard the most was when my parents had to be at work at 6:30 and they would wake me up screaming because it really pisses them off that they are out working and I am home sleeping (at the time I was in college and I had my classes start at 9 and they went until like 8 at night most days).  they refused to let me sleep if they were working because it upset them.
It got to the point one day I had enough and told them fine if that is the case I will be waking you up at 3:am when I am right in the middle of writing some paper for some class because I get really angry when you are sleeping while I am up working. 


it was like my god how hard is it to understand that people can have different sleeping schedules, and still be working really hard. My parents greatly cut down the work and responsibility I had around the house once I hit higs chool. Most of my friends (myself included) were taking 4-6 AP or DE classes. Track and field held me after school and I came home exhausted. I'd sleep until dinner was ready, eat with the fam, and start/finish my homework, and try to be in bed before 12am. I really appreciated that they took notice

Edit: I will say that although I wouldn't want my children to face the sleep deprivation and anxiety that comes with the busy schedule, it taught me how to manage my time. My first semester of college felt like a breeze with all the free time I had. A lot if freshmen went crazy with their freedom and ended up screwing up their gpa My parents do the exact opposite. Not only am I forbidden from falling asleep after school, I am required to have a job if I want a cell phone. On top of multiple AP classes and after school clubs, sleep isn't really a thing that happens.  Why can't you take a nap after school?  "u lazy piece of shit when i was half your age i had 3 full time jobs and we got off school at 8 pm"

some people just shouldn't be parents When I was 14 I got a job at a steel mill. In two weeks I was running the floor. 

Child labor laws are ruining this country.  Man, I love my parents You should need a license to be a parent. And i know that sounds horrible and restricting basic rights or whatnot, but seeing how so many horrible parents treat their kids like shit and mentally handicap them and cause many to be extremely depressed, people should be required to pass a series of tests and have to maintain their license every few years.  I agree, but that could cause more problems in terms of enforcing it. Not to mention the human rights side of things. I had a friend who napped after school. You know where he is now?

Dead.  A lot of parents think it'll affect the sleeping pattern so much that they won't sleep during the night, my parents were the same. If his parents were anything like mine, because it's "lazy." There were days I'd go in to school and it was dark,  and by the time I was done with rehearsals and everything, it was dark again. I didn't actually see sunlight, except through some doors leading to outside (my school had almost no windows,  most classes were in the interior of the building)  Its amazing how when you get your first job after graduating, the evenings are amazing. One you leave work, the day is yours. No homework. No studying. No multiple lingering deadlines.  I'm out of college. My work doesn't end promptly at 5 with no worries after that.  Mine either. I'd like to know where I can find this job with no lingering deadlines also.  Stress-free job that ends at 5:00 pm every day and virtually never requires evenings or weekends, checking in. I have lingering deadlines, but that's for deliverables that I work on during the day while I'm at work. On the other end of the spectrum, I can honestly say that I've never had as much free time as I do now with a full-time job and recent college grad. Home before 5 and the night is mine! American high school sounds like a nervous breakdown waiting to happen  \*points to our school shootings\* ya think? Shots fir.. wait, dunno if that's appropriate here  shots taken to cope. Whiskey for me. [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] Also a so flo kid, the really ridiculous shit was the sports teams that started practice at 6 and then had practice after school too. This was everyday, including Saturday. I did go to school with a lot of jr Olympians and pro athletes now tho.  I feel like the whole world needs this.  Back when the primary profession was farming and it was beneficial for people to be "up with the chickens" and they needed every daylight hour they could get, waking up early made sense.  These days, its less needed really. Back when farming was the primary profession, most people didn't have cars.  Many kids could walk to school for their entire school age lives for the most part. Yeah like back in the 90's when school didn't start till noon.

Oh wait. It's gotten worse though, where I'm from school used to start around 8:30, because of bus schedules and budget constraints they had to push the hour back. It makes a difference.  It makes a difference if all schools start earlier, we'd need more research in this. It is far more likely that kids go to bed later and later, a common reason would be they are constantly looking at screens. Lots of light in the eye and mental activity. That's true. It could be a combination of factors as well. I'm sure light activity form phones plays a significant role I would add, a lot more homework as well. My elementary school child has at least 2 hours a night. In addition to extracurricular activities, Boy Scouts and stuff. After all that he needs sometime to unwind.  What schools start at seven? They were always 8:30 when I was young. 

EDIT: apparently everybody and their dog goes at least an hour before that.  Are school officials fucking stupid?  Do they not listen to all the evidence?

EDIT 2: hour "before", not hour "after".  Me dum. I graduated in 2011. At my high school, first hour started at 7:27 and zero hour started at 6:52. It was ridiculous. What is zero hour? Essentially an optional period before classes officially start for the day. It was for classes like Advanced Conditioning, Academic Decathalon, College Writing, etc. So... activities that need high concentration ? Seems like someone thought that through pretty good ;) [deleted] [deleted] Graduated in 2007 in Michigan. School started at 7:20am. Had to be at the bus stop by 6:30am. Middle school started at around 8:20am.  7:35 when I was in high school, 13-17 years ago.  There were 4 lunch shifts, the first of which occurred at like 10:30. Oh man, I forgot about all those different lunch shifts in HS. At mine, first lunch was at 10:20. I was always starving by the time class was done for the day, let alone sports. I started high school in 2004 in a public school in New Jersey and the classes started at 7:15am. I finished high school in 2008 in North Carolina where classes began at 8:30am. Not sure if geography affects what times schools open. No it's not the starting times it's the increased workloads (homework) and extracurricular activities/sports coupled with social and family time. Also many kids have jobs after school. 

Edit: https://pbs.twimg.com/media/B-T1Az3IgAImaSE.jpg:large Ehhhhhh for me it was video games. [deleted] Get home at 6 after practice, done eating at 7, Guild Wars until 1am, up at 7. Halo on the weekends. And that was High School. [deleted] I would've been fucked if I started at 7am. 8:30 was occasionally hit and miss but in general it was a good starting time. It could also have something to do with nearly all teenagers having access to sites like reddit on their phones at all hours.  Screens keeping people up is real. [deleted] &gt; Changes to this circadian rhythm occur during adolescence, when most teens experience a sleep phase delay. This shift in teens' circadian rhythm causes them to naturally feel alert later at night, making it difficult for them to fall asleep before 11:00 pm. Since most teens have early school start times along with other commitments, this sleep phase delay can make it difficult to get the sleep teens need -- an average of 9 1/4 hours, but at least 8 hours. This sleep deprivation can influence the circadian rhythm; for teens the strongest circadian dips tend to occur between 3:00-7:00 am and 2:00-5:00 pm, but the morning dip (3:00-7:00 am) can be even longer if teens havent had enough sleep, and can even last until 9:00 or 10:00 am."

source: http://sleepfoundation.org/sleep-topics/sleep-drive-and-your-body-clock

It actually really is the start time. yes but have start times changed in the last 30 years? I'm on my way out the door and don't have time to search google anymore, but the only study I could find into start times is [this one](http://www.fcps.edu/supt/update/1415/Blueprint-Change-School-Start-Time-Change-ReportFinal4-14-14.pdf)

Some schools appear to have increased their start times slightly, a few have made them earlier, but the change isn't significant. The only one that hasn't adjusted its start time in 50 years already started at 9am.

So, you have a point where homework/busy schedules may be affecting them, but the start time is still a significant factor. According to google and [this article](http://www.usatoday.com/story/opinion/2014/08/27/high-school-start-times-teenagers-sleep-editorials-debates/14708625/) the average start time is currently 7:59am, and some high schools are still pushing back start times even earlier.

Personally, my high school started at 7:25am and my bus would arrive on my block as early as 6:45am, so I was trying to wake up by 5:30 every morning. Felt like shit, always. I think the last part is also important to consider. Sure, school STARTS at 7:00AM, but in order to be up and get ready and get to school, I know I had to get up at around 5:30 as well. And it was the sort of thing where I tried pushing it back to even 6:00, but then I was competing with rush hour commuters and then I would be late. People aren't just going to school around the corner anymore. From 6th grade till 12th grade I had to wake up at 5am EVERY day to take a shower. My father is a high school teacher so I would have to wake up in time to use the bathroom before him and then get out the door for the bus starting as early as 6am. I would then come home and stay up till 10-11ish 6hours of sleep for that many years is killer. Now I have a second shift job, I go to bed at 4-5AM and sleep in till 11-12-1pm. Getting almost 10hours of sleep sometimes has done great things for my life. &gt; Getting almost 10hours of sleep sometimes has done great things for my life.

never underestimate the power of sleep! Easy fix: send elementary school kids to school first, then middle school, then high school.  Younger kids are more likely to want to get up early.  Older kids need to sleep in.

My kid's school system does this, and it helps. [deleted] High school for me started at 7am, the bus came to my stop at 5:45am every morning. I was constantly tired as fuck, it is not easy to get to bed at 9:30pm when you're 15. It's not like 'it's not easy'. It's more like 'I tried a few times but stayed up staring at the window until the normal time I go to bed'. Okay, it's not easy *to go to sleep* at 9:30pm when you're 15. [deleted] &gt; and then having a social life.

In my home I was expected not to have a social life. Complying with this gave me the free time I needed to veg out and do nothing, like any healthy teenager. Yeah. A hard rule was no video games during the week and limited TV hours. An unofficial rule was no having friends over or going to hang out with friends. I could get around that one if I was able to convince my parents that all of my homework and studying was done, and if the grades on my last report card were sufficient enough.

But honestly by high school my routine was to spend like an hour on reading/homework as soon as I got home and then just hop on the computer and do nothing on the Internet. My district has a grade data base where parents can see child's grades. My parents check it before I go anywhere, my grades determine whether or not I can go. If I could go back in time and prevent whoever invented that from being born I would.  My mom complains that I'm "bitchy" and "have no social life."  My grades are never good enough for my dad and my mom is never happy.  Even when I DID do after school activities it wasn't good enough.  "Why don't you have a job?" And they refuse to believe that I work until 11:30 on projects or studying because THEY didn't do that in high school [deleted] I have a zero hour class and I have to be to school at 6:30. Then I have football workouts afterschool until 4:30 or sometimes 5. My friend has same schedule as me but after school(ends at 2:00) he goes to wrestling practice and doesn't get home till 5-6. It's crazy.  When I was in high school (graduated HS in 2003), I got up at 5:45am every morning to catch the bus. I believe school started around 7:30? This was in Central Florida. I was playing EverQuest throughout most of this time, which I don't think I need to define on Reddit, but needless to say World of Warcraft (a good game in its own right) is like Baby's First MMO compared to the crack cocaine addiction of EQ. Many nights I only got around 3 hours of sleep. I mean, when someone asks you if you want to camp for Golden Efreeti Boots, you don't really turn them down, even if it's already passed midnight... &gt; Too early for brain to function properly

&gt; buss Where I grew up in the bay area (SF) (high) school started at 8:15a which seems reasonable if a bit early.  Moving to Seattle I find out most high schools start at 7a (earlier some places)?  The justification is since it is dark at about 4p in the winter then a 7a start time allows school to end at ~2p and still leave time for daylight (for extracurriculars or just in general).

I don't agree with it, but that's the justification.
 [deleted] Used to have freshman basketball practice before school. Woke up @ 4:30 to get to school by 5:15,  practice until 7, shower and get to first class by 7:30 and go to my caddy job after school.  Good times.  [deleted] My high school did block scheduling, so you'd have four 1:24 minute class periods per semester. A bunch of teachers didn't give homework, so certain teachers figured that an hour of homework from them would be fine. Of course senior year it seemed like every teacher had that idea, and we drowned under the workload until they lessened the load upon realizing what was happening.  My school had 16 periods of 35 min. Most classes were two periods long, but once a week each one would be only 1 period. Only like 10-12 periods were classes, and the other 4-6 you could pick what you wanted to do. You could go to the cafeteria, library fieldhouse, art wing, or any open study halls.  16 periods is so bizarre to me. I'm from the UK but over here where I'm from it's 5 periods of an hour long each, with 1 hour break, and an hour administration (morning 20 mins afternoon 40).  You would be surprised. High Academically inclined high schools have lots of Honors and AP courses. Those teachers will "pretend" that their class is the only class that matters and give home work accordingly. If each teacher gives you 15~20 pages a night to read plus some worksheets it adds up. 

Now these assignments wouldnt normally take an hour but after getting into school at 7:15 (which was what I did) school ends after 2, then I played football which was 3 more hours; Focus was impossible.  Im a Junior in high school right now taking 3 AP classes and each one believes that they are the only class in the world   I took an IB english class taught by my mother in a public highschool and she still doesnt realize how much work she's giving these kids even after seeing me spend several hours a night on it Exactly my English class alone gave us several chapters a night, 4 essays a week, usually a presentation and another thing we would need to learn. That was one class  That's unreasonable. You're not doing good work at that point. That's quantity, not quality.  &gt; That's quantity, not quality.

Welcome to education. It's not important at the end of the semester that you learned something, just that you did a lot of work. Which the students adapt to as well. When education has this mentality, the students completely stop caring about remembering what they learned and focusing on just getting that letter grade as high as possible. I hope GPA becomes less important in the future for high school. It practically means nothing if you don't mind going to a community college for a year or two and transferring to university thereafter.

Its not a glorious strategy, but it works, is cheap, and a sensible approach to an education and a future during and after high school. Yes, because the best thing to do is a lot of work. It doesn't matter if you actually learn how to solve problems and invent solutions, what matters is that you're able to unquestionably do hours of thankless, soul-killing busywork.  Preparing us for the real world I guess.  I averaged 2 hours per night in high school after freshman year. Didn't have a study hall, classes were ~45 minutes, and the bus was incredibly loud and bumpy I couldn't imagine working on it.

Edit: Graduated in 2007, fwiw. &gt; I averaged 2 hours per night in high school after freshman year

and then you've got folks like me who maaaaybe put in an hour each night, maybe... Shit, I never did homework when i was in high school unless I was doing it during another class. Average day involved waking up around 5AM, I was in school till 2:10. Then not one but two after school clubs including sports (daily). Game days didn't just happen on Fridays so there were nights I was lucky to get home by 11. Usually quit trying to catch up around 3 so I could get my nightly 2 hour dose and start over. Spent about 5 or more hours doing homework on Saturdays. Class of 2011. Still wasn't "involved" enough to get into the school I wanted. An hour of homework *per class per day*? That sounds ludicrous. The key is to do that homework during other classes The true overachievers get good enough to quickly do smaller homework assignments in the 5 minutes at the beginning of class before that assignment is collected. [deleted] I would be puking in class every day if I had that little sleep. I have no idea how people do this. On 4 hours of sleep consistently i will fall asleep standing and fall over. 4.5 hours of sleep is extreme to the point I question if that was really possible.

Edit:
After some research. Appaently about 1% of the population can do this.  I used to have a schedule similar to that and it resulted in me sleeping in class on a regular basis. Ahh that makes sense it would end up being basically unavoidable.  My school (UK) starts at 8:30. I wake up at about 7:50, I can walk to school in 10-15 minutes (it's just under a mile).

I couldn't function getting up earlier. I've got up at like 6:30 if I have a significant amount of homework to do for that day but then I almost fall asleep, especially if I don't have time to eat at morning break.

I'm actually surprised people don't sleep more. I go to bed later than I used to, but I try and go to sleep at 11 ish. I really think the problem is early school times. I find my school early. Studies claim an adolescent simply can't function properly if they're made to get up at 6, 7, or even 8 am... The recommendation for quite some time is to start school up around 10 am or so, in fact. However, you can't expect this to change anywhere. Everyone has to live the 9-5 work life... even kids. When I was in high school, I had enough work senior year that I slept 5 hours a night for weeks at a time. It wasn't too bad for a few days but then I began to become perpetually sleep deprived and it was insane.  The effects of sleep deprivation are crazy. I thought I was fine in high school because if I was really that tired my body would force me to lay down and sleep. Nope. You can will power through that urge. It took me a while to figure out these are the actual escalating symptoms:

1. Confusion
2. Thinking I see movement out of the corner of my eye
3. Nausea
4. Dizziness/Faintness

By time I get to 4 I can't stand up, so that's my body's ultimate method to force me to nap. Oh man the weirdest time was once I stayed up till like 4, and before going to bed, I was checking whether I had any AP Computer Science hw. Then I realized I took that class a year ago.  Man, i consider 5 hours a blessing. I usually can't sleep earlier than 4am, n school starts at 8:20. Wakey time is 7. Needless to say, my grades are pure shit. Schooldays till 4pm, and then work from 5, sometimes 5:30 if my boss is generous, till 9/10pm. He makes me work whole weekends too, sometimes, with saturdays from 1pm till 10, and sundays 10am till 6pm.

i hate my life [deleted] I've always heard that things could be improved if we just moved school up by a few hours. Start school at 10 and end at 5. Wish it had been like that when I was in school.  We've based our entire society around an outdated agricultural mentality, where every daylight hour is precious and must be taken advantage of. There's just no reason kids need to go to school at 7:30 in the morning like I did in high school (for clarification, class *started* at 7:30, so that meant getting up at 6:30).  No, we base it around the parent's work schedules. While not all, most parents have the typical 8 to 5 work day. Our class times started at 7:30 for this very reason. Kids whose parents had a longer commute came in around 6 to 6:30, the rest trickled in accordingly. 

Once upon a time, it was more common for one parent to work 8 to 5, and the other take off early to pick up the kids. This was the case for about half of our students. The other half had some sort of extra-curricular or extended-day program where they were basically babysat and did homework until one of the parents could pick them up around 5. 

The parents get up extra early to get the kids ready and drop them off, but their brains are wired differently. I remember my Dad would make me go to bed at 8 until I was 12, it got pushed back to 9 until I was 14, and then was 10 when I was sixteen. 

They used to hate it when I would sleep over at my home-schooled friend's house. She wouldn't go to bed until 3 in the morning, and it would throw me off from my school sleeping schedule the rest of the week. I was *at school* by 645 in high school; we were done by 145, but if you had sports practices or other extracurriculars, you'd get home at 5 regardless. I was putting in 11 hour days *on the reg*, so yea, I slept in until noon every day of summer vacation before my split shift at Burger King. I honestly think the day in high school is too long. Study hall was an hour every day for me, which was a significant waste of time. Classes are inefficient - most students learn the details on their own for homework. Even with multiple AP classes, I think 4 hours of school would've been enough each day. Even medical students, who study about 20x as much material as the average high school student, are in class maybe 3 hours each day. Just teach the important details, and then give students access to good study materials and enough time to eat, sleep, study, and do their necessary EC's. Maybe adaption or evolution will slowly rid of sleeping. 1 down 7 to go. That's not how evolution works [deleted] Hey, school administrators, look at this comments section..... that's 2500 people that are baffled at the USA's schools or pissed at the schools for having to suffer through it. 

See these other countries that are so-called "ahead of us"? Yeah, look at the comments.... they're far more laid back than the USA.... you keep trying to play catch-up with the Asian countries.... even though many of them are actually working towards making them more relaxed thanks to the suicides associated with high amounts of work and not having the time to just be a kid. More ammo:

In 2009, shifting the start time later was tested at a few schools in the UK (it used to be 9am, although some schools had moved to the US system of starting earlier - at 7am), leading to an immediate raise in test scores and retention. 

http://www.theguardian.com/education/2009/mar/08/teenagers-sleep-education-secondary-school

http://www.slate.com/articles/health_and_science/new_scientist/2013/04/teenage_sleep_patterns_why_school_should_start_later.html

&gt;The data are only preliminary but show lateness has dropped eight per cent and long-term absence 27 per cent because of the changes to the start of the school day. Our GCSE results in maths and English in January are significantly improved on the scores in January 2009," Paul Kelley, the headmaster, told The Sunday Times. 

(http://www.reddit.com/r/science/comments/2wjmn9/just_43_percent_of_15yearolds_sleep_7_or_more/corzyvf?context=3 )
 [deleted] School started at 7:20am. We got out at 2:52PM (not a typo). I went to work at 4pm and got off at 9pm. I worked because it was the only way I could get anything fun since we were dirt poor. Homework lasted 3-5 hours usually. So yeah, getting enough sleep was hard. Start class at 7am, plus extra curriculars, sports, and homework, bed time is hard to get ready for. I remember it was always a relief to get to bed by at least 11pm. My school runs 7:30am - 3:50PM.  Then we have sports from 4PM to 5:30 or 6PM.  Then some students do club sports for the local area (cheerleading) for another two hours.  Then they have homework.  I tell my students they work harder than we teachers and many parents do and don't believe anyone who says otherwise. Well, the mental health of children comes secondary to all else. Homework and schedules are proven by controlled studies to be applied in a DETRIMENTAL way? Screw it, full speed ahead!    School is a frustrating hell. I have to get up at five in the morning because the bus gets here so early. Just a few hours after I wake, I'm trying to figure out how Pythagorean identities work. I can't do after school activities, I'm always far too tired. I can't have a social life and a good academic life, I barely get enough sleep with one. school simply shouldn't be an 8 hour day.  so much time is wasted anyways.   [deleted] [deleted] 15 year olds? jeezus, they are still growing! Im almost 25 and I dont think Ive ever got &lt;7 hours. ever. Oh what, for real? How?! It's all just [Parkinson's Law](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Parkinson%27s_law). You have the time, you just spend it dicking around. Almost *nobody* has so much work that they're working nonstop to the point where they can't sleep 7-8 hours. Those who do are using their time inefficiently, or work at a place like an investment banking firm that essentially haze their new workers. Or work in software.  Or work in management.  Or are an executive.  All of these jobs will see you working well over 16 hours some days. What kind of software company outside of Silicon Valley is making their people work 16 hour days? That's just dumb.  Shh don't say that on Reddit. Executives and people in management positions don't do anything remember? I don't understand. If you get 8 hours of sleep, then *literally* your whole day is working. That should not happen, and I'd guess is probably illegal.  Some people do have that little time and aren't using it inefficiently. Some people may have significant health and/or familial time commitments on top of their job and some may need to work more than one job.

[Edit] another possibility: Some may have long commutes and not be able to get a different job that meets their needs. Nothing to do with work man!  Some people like to learn and entertain themselves with hobbies. I'm nearly 30 and I need 10 to function properly. Have for years. During high school, however, I never got 7. Between sports, homework, and just my natural bedtime ending up around midnight I generally got about 6 hours a night. For me to get what my body wants I would've had to go to bed at 8pm. Good luck getting to bed at 8 as a high school student. I wasn't even home most nights at 8. What I love were those people who tried to claim you only need 4.

Because 4 hours are REM sleep. It's not like you fall asleep and immediately go into REM. You need at least a few hours before REM kicks in, unless you always get 4 hours and pass out into REM sleep immediately. I have done this while driving, with my eyes open. Scary shit because sleep paralysis kicks in. Luckily the urge to survive is a bit stronger and allows you to claim control again at the very last moment. That happened about a year ago. nearly went into a concrete barrier because my right arm decided to go limp and wouldn't respond, nor would my feet. Anyone in other countries interested in our school schedules this is how it is for me.

Wake-up at 6:30

School at 7:30

Ends at (really when I get home) 3

2 hours of social life stuff mostly or naps

Basketball at 6

Ends at 8

About hour or 2 hours of homework

Then it's what I want to do 15-year-old here. I can't concentrate on anything without at least over 8 hours per night, but most of my friends sleep 6 hours or less per night. And teachers wonder why kids are tired the next days at school. AP classes  and football then basketball kill me. At least golf isn't hard  I was 15 in 2003 and I almost never got 7+ hours. I would fall asleep around midnight and wake up around 5:30.  School schedules are designed for the teachers and administration, not the students. I had teachers admit that they would request for their classes to be in the morning because they were "more alert". Well, you're one out of 40 people in the room and everyone else cannot function at that early an hour.  When you're in high school, you savor every hour you have after school. Forcing yourself to sleep early and pushing through the exaltation of finally being free is not easy. School should not be so miserable. Nix homework, for starters. It doesn't enrich the kid's mind but is rather a token for the teacher to hold up as proof he/she is doing things. That is unacceptable. You have an hour every single day with your students. Use it then leave them alone. tbh a lot of the people i know just cheat off each other on hw or look it up on the internet it really doesn't seem to be a helpful thing when no one is actually trying on it. I go to a tech school. Our black market isn't drugs, but completed homework assignments... Homework is incredibly useful.  It's a way of measuring whether the kids actually learn any of the material.  Also, the lectures are for teaching.  HW is needed for practice problems to enforce the lectures.   The problem is many teachers think that the students ONLY have their class, so they assign homework without thinking about all the other homework the kid has.  I was also never a fan of the "10 minutes of homework / grade level a night". I'm sorry, but I didn't want to come home from 6 hours of school to do an extra 2 hours of homework a night. who only has 2 hours of homework? i have like 5 a night at least... Eh, homework is just another obstacle. Nowadays almost all homework given is prewritten and the answers exist somewhere on the Internet. It's just a Google search away and students know this. I think *some* homework should be nixed or at least have the teachers put in more effort. As a 15 year old,  I get 5 to 6 hours of sleep on school days.  I can't help but go to bed at 11:00 at the very least,  and I wake at 6AM, I know many who wake up earlier.  For the first time in my life, the first thing I do when I get home is sleep.  I take a nap at 2:45 until about 6 every day,  it's not rare to wake up at 7.  He'll I've gone to sleep until 9 on more than once occasion. Schools need to learn  that this isn't healthy at all.  I've never met another student that says they aren't tired at any point of the day at my school. It's affecting my grades and my mood. I'd take a 10AM-4PM schedule any day over this stuff.  Wait, so you're getting 3-4 hour naps every evening on top of 5-6 hours of sleep at night? Seems like enough sleep to me. If you're that tired, and your schedule allows for that much napping, why can't you make time to go to bed earlier? I can't describe it, but I can't go to bed earlier. If I go to bed at 9:30 I'd fall asleep by 10:30 at best, I'd just sit there for awhile and eventually after a long time I go to sleep. I'm not on my phone or anything, I'm just trying to go to sleep. And I'd think that's enough sleep too, but I still wind up feeling tired. My mom says that taking naps is what prevents me from falling asleep at night, but as to how truthful that is IDK. The naps might indeed be the problem, although I get about 6-7 hours of sleep a night (no naps during the day) and I still can't fall asleep before 11. Maybe if you cut down on the naps you'd be tired enough to fall asleep earlier, and wake up feeling well-rested? ITT: People who actually did homework in high school A bunch of weirdos! I never did my math hw cause I was lazy and if I didn't get it right away I would just make up random stuff since they never checked it thouroughly anyway. I feel as though that was extremely stupid now looking back and I wish I had spent more time on learning math There's a lot of know it all old people in this thread pretending like they know what kids go through because they used to be one.
Every generation is different. The workload that schools place on kids these days is ENORMOUS compared to what it once was. You can't just say, "Oh, its all the electronic devices!"
No, hell no. You don't get away with saying that.
Schools pile more and more homework on students. They are forced to do so much that they barely have social lives after school. What's worse is that the crappy homework they're given isn't even GOOD homework. It's crappy busywork that they will never ever use in their lives after school. 

Our educational system SUCKS. It's always sucked. It needs major reform and the evidence is the toll its taking on kids. 

People are whining about video games and electronics...blah blah blah...console video games have been around since way before this generation. So has the internet. Stop finding fault with technology and look to the system, which is MASSIVELY broken. Ive had heated words with my kids teachers a few times over homework.  When they come home from school thats my time with them. The school has 7 hours to teach them math and english. I need time to teach them how to survive and be happy in the real world. A large portion of my time was spent deprograming them.  Are there any schools in your area that run on a semester schedule? In my HS we had two semester, and you could take four classes per semester. You only had two classes every day, one class for the whole time before lunch and one for the whole time after lunch. So you'd have class A and B on monday, C and D on tuesday, then A and B on Wednesday, etc. It was great because usually only an hour or two at the most of class was lecturing - the rest of the time we did our assignments and asked the teacher questions. If you didn't goof off in class you'd never end up with homework to do at home, because you had two solid hours of time to finish it in every class. And being able to ask the teacher for help was a huge plus, instead of struggling alone at home.

In middle school I had every single class every day in 30 min blocks. So much time wasted just going to and from classes, and there was never any time to get the teachers help on the assignment. They could barely finish their lectures. Semester schedule is so, so much better. That schedule sounds lovely. So much time is wasted just starting up (attendance, etc) and winding down in some schools between periods.  I actually have mixed feelings about this. On the one hand, having a minimum of an hour each of homework per night in history, math and english every night was insane. But on the other hand, I would never have gained the skills I did in writing and problem solving without that extracurricular work, and those skills have served me very well after college. But were you a happy child and what is your relationship with your parents. Yes, mostly, and we're pretty close. I think that homework, especially in math and english, is important. It's difficult to teach all the material and then have them apply it in just an hour a day. You have to actually *practice* writing and math or you will not learn it. That being said, they do give out too much homework. Schools already have most of the day. If they're squandering it on hookers and blow and home economics, that's *their* failure. A student should figure out how to get educated, and not give much weight to the damn-fool opinions of their school administrators. [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] Related: there's a program called f.lux that I use that makes your screen less bright and orange when the sun goes down, I'd recommend it to anyone.  *citation needed f.lux stops this That's why I can't sleep well without f.lux This is why I always read one of my books for 30 minutes to an hour before I go to bed, it definitely makes a difference.  Check out an app called Twilight.
Puts a red filter on your phone at night to help sleep.  [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] Books and building models are tiring...?  It takes some small mental effort and physical energy. Obviously you don't have to agree with me here.  [deleted] I agree that books are a powerful draw; however, I also find that with books, there is the need to actually hold the book open and turn pages.  I start to nod off, the book shuts, I snap out of it, think "oh shit, almost lost my page!" mark my place and lay down.  With a computer, I can pass out for 5 minutes and if my screen settings haven't caused a powersave time-out, I just snap out of it like nothing happened and keep going on.  There's no physical reminder that, "gee, /u/glowworm2k, you sure aren't in full control of your fine motor skills anymore." Staring into a bright screen also makes your brain think it's still day time, so you don't get as tired as you normally would. I definitely find it easier to sleep when I'm bored.   [deleted] &gt; I think this is the real issue.

I don't. I think it's a combination of this plus the amount of homework students are expected to do while also participating in after school activities. 

A majority of high school kids probably get up around 6-6:30 AM to get ready and be to school by 7-7:30 AM. Then they don't get out until around 2-2:30 PM. Depending on whether they're involved in after school activities they probably don't get home until around 5 PM. Then they get to eat dinner and move onto the 2-4 hours worth of homework they have and by the time that's all done its around 9 PM. 

You can't really fault them for wanting to spend at least some time doing something they want to do before they go to sleep to have to wake up and do it all over again. 

TL;DR You can't just blame it all on the increased amount of distractions and be done with it. There's more to the conversation than that.  [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] The problem I have is people here on /r/science acting as though it is already proven fact. It probably is the major contributing factor to the change, but it still needs to be studied to confirm that. 

Meanwhile kids haven't been getting enough sleep for decades, it's something we have studied, and yet nothing's changed in regards to early start times. Completely agree with you on that! [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] My best friend has a step-son who is in high school right now (his wife is 8 years older than us), and his extra-curricular activity workload is not much different than what my friend and I had 10+ years ago.  I think that's just a nostalgic lens kicking in. I don't know about anecdotal evidence, but check out the GPAs and exam scores of students that were admitted to Ivy League schools over the past ten years. Definite increase there. [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] You think a whopping 33% is *exclusive* to Tablets/Phones? Come the fuck on, back then there was still video games and internet and telephone [deleted] Do you have anything to cite that school work loads have increased? Or are you just assuming that you have it worse than anyone did before you?  I don't have any official documents to cite however I have talked to many students from each grades and having lived through a lot of changes,  it has grown harder in terms of testing and homework as the teachers would specifically say that the ap test has gotten harder or there's an increase of work to new national or state policies. Overall, the general trend for school work load has always grown higher with the exception of the baby boomers generation. Where the nation wasn't prepared with the influx of people and had to lessen work in order to accommodate for everyone.  [deleted] If you regularly took that long to do homework, you were not using your time efficiently. If you're watching tv while you work, for example, it's going to take you longer. Nope, didn't watch tv.

Some teachers just gave out tons of homework. [deleted] [deleted] sounds like a you problem [deleted] I went to one of the best high schools in the nation, while playing a sport and getting honor role. 

Didn't go to bed after midnight very often at all.  [deleted] That anology doesn't make sense. In most jobs work stays at work. You go in, work your 8 hours except for the odd overtime, then go home. Maybe every once in a while there's happy hour or a yearly banquet. And when your 30, your not going out every night because of family, home projects, and laziness.

School on the other hand runs your life, especially in college. After class (which in college is not always one contiguous block of time) you have hours of study time, working in study groups, doing homework, etc. Lots of students don't want to be shut-ins so they join fraternities and club after club, each with its own meetings, hangouts, and rules. There's a lot of pressure to go out partying, which means you aren't studying tonight or in the morning. The common saying "Pick 2: Social life, Good grades, or sleep" is very true.

I was terrible at balancing everything in college and it showed. Every job I had since I left there though was 100x easier to manage. [deleted] [deleted] How about shorten the school day? I could cut out about 2 hours out of my school day and see myself learning just as much if it were more efficient. Gym class, for example. The 10 minute off topic period where the teacher begins to go in seemingly every class. [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] Freshman year of college is not exactly graduate studies.  

Now, the second year, I can see issues..

 As someone who was in high school as a good student but was mostly friends with people who preferred the internet and video games: both are reasons people aren't getting sleep. Some people stay up until 2am playing video games or playing on their phones while ignoring their homework until the last second, and some people are in three clubs, a sport, music lessons, and four AP classes. Most are in between. 

You might not get sleep because you are busy, and there are others like you. But trust me, there are plenty of people in high school who aren't in extracurriculars or sports and do the bare minimum required for class who just stay up too late doing other stuff. Probably more of them than the ones who are really studious.  I know you didn't post this question to me. 

&gt; I don't think you understand how difficult it is to be a student in high school.

I am sure they do know, they were in highschool at one time too.

Highschool is very very easy compared to the rest of your life. College is a factor of 10 harder.

A career, Family, kids etc. is a factory of 100 harder then that. If you think you are busy now you are going to have a rude awakening. I am not trying to tell anyone that my life is so hard and that they should pity me or something. I *know* everyone says that it gets harder and I don't deny that you're right. Many of the people who have responded to me negatively have taken it as me bitching about how hard my life is compared to theirs.

My point is that passing it off as us staying up much too late on hour phones is offensive when not only I look forward to finishing my homework and crashing into bed, but also I hear my classmates complain about how late they were up doing homework after sports, rehearsal, or whatever it is they may do so that they can go to college. I did not appreciate the original poster's ignorant opinion on my generation.  I can tell you have a good head on your shoulders. I think you may be an "old soul". 

Smart phones, tablets, facebook, PS4s etc. are all distractions. Even if you don't spend hours on end on them. A 5 minute text conversion takes away from your total daily life minutes. If you think you have to many activities in your life in order to get enough sleep then you should cut some of them out. Sacrificing what you want to do for what you should be doing. That's life. If you don't want to quit doing things you enjoy the only thing left to give up is sleep. This never changes through out life. I appreciate this response, well said.

While I agree that it's all about sacrificing what I want to do vs what I should do, that is a tough thing to do. Many of the people in my situation do not truly have an option between the pressure of parents and more importantly the looming college acceptance so I can get a job and make a decent living.

You are most certainly right, and it's worth considering whether it's all really worth the sacrifice of sleep. I guess I will only find out in the future. Good luck in life. I am sure you will do great.  Part time tutor here. Can confirm many kidsw ork harder than I ever did. Some also, however, stay up late on Skype. If you want a hint, try to learn in groups. Time management and efficient learning methods are a good thing to have.  Some people don't remember what it's like. I grew up in the 90s during the dawning of the Internet. I didn't have a cell phone or tablet but I still wouldn't have had the time for them even if I did. You guys have a lot more tech, gadgets, and resources but that doesn't mean you have it easier like a lot of people apparently think you do. Everyone just expects more of you now because they think you have it easier and just don't remember. I graduated from high school in 2008. The work load isn't nearly as bad as you're saying. The problem is you stuck at managing your time.

For instance, you have time to comment on reddit during class, apparently. Wouldn't it be a better use of your time to be getting homework done right now? [deleted] [deleted] What holiday? [deleted] [deleted] You're probably right. Even when I was in high school from '03-'07, I was going to bed incredibly late because I would come home at 2PM, play around on my computer, chatting on AIM or gaming, and then put off homework until late, late.. 

Even then, I would type as many assignments up as I possibly could on my computer and the Internet continued to distract me. So I proceeded to stay up until midnight or later scrambling to get everything done. When you have to be up at 6 o'clock AM or earlier to catch the stupid bus, that isn't many hours of sleep. I've just started turning everything off at 10.p.m on the dot. Tired or not. I've got pretty bad sleeping habits and it was painful to be awake just sitting in the dark but it hasn't taken long to get to something way closer to normal than where I was at before. 

I don't think it's just the light as well it's the mental stimulation. It's so hard to go without when you're so used to just always having that buzz of something to read/ watch. 

So glad I did though, feel like I've slogged through the shit of laying in bed for hours being incredibly bored, resisting the urge to try again in a few hours. To actually getting some decent sleep. It's amazing. 

 This was the case at my school right before smart phones and other handheld devices were so ubiquitous. But they definitely don't help.. College sucked donkey balls "No, those progressives and educational experts have it all wrong! It's actually the victims' fault....oh, and that damn technology, too! Trust me, I just know." That's a lazy explanation.  Back in the 2000s, it was the computer, internet and video games for me [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] Starting school later won't help the kids who think work load is the problem. [deleted] Could this be the result of two or more supermassive black holes colliding and absorbing each other?  The article didn't say how far outside the normal growth range this thing is, and I'm not well versed in this area. That's almost certainly the case. The limit to growth that they're talking about in the article is the Eddington limit, which is only a hard limit if the black hole is only accreting gas that's just falling straight in (and is isotropic). There are all kinds of ways for black holes to break the Eddington limit, and merging with other black holes is one of them. There are plenty of already known black holes that couldn't have formed just via Eddington-limit accretion and I'm honestly not sure why this is news. It could be that there's some aspect of the observations of this particular black hole that shows that it must have violated the Eddington limit in some new and interesting way, but if so they don't talk about it in the article.

Edit: Isotropic, not isometric! Thanks to /u/Banach-Tarski. According to the [actual publication](http://www.nature.com/nature/journal/v518/n7540/full/nature14241.html):

&gt;It has an optical and near-infrared luminosity a few times greater than those of previously known z &gt; 6 quasars. On the basis of the deep absorption trough on the blue side of the Lyman- emission line in the spectrum, we estimate the proper size of the ionized proximity zone associated with the quasar to be about 26 million light years, larger than found with other z &gt; 6.1 quasars with lower luminosities. 

From what I understand its just brighter and larger than the other quasars that have been discovered at that distance. Correct. Also this:

&gt;The existence of such black holes when the Universe was less than one billion years old presents substantial challenges to theories of the formation and growth of black holes and the coevolution of black holes and galaxies14.

 [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] Wait a second: are they saying the singularities have actually merged? My impression is there are now two black holes orbiting each other cloaked by a shared event horizon. Are you a physicist? I have lots of questions. I'm no physicist but I'm not sure its possible for black holes to orbit within an event horizon.

The edge of the event horizon is the point where gravity is strong enough to prevent light from escaping. If it is strong enough to prevent photons of light from escaping, which have negligible energy compared to another black hole and is moving at the speed of light, surely a massive object would be unable to move fast enough to hold a stable orbit. I am a physicist and I can confirm you are correct.  Within a certain radius there are no stable orbits around a black hole, and this radius is outside of the event horizon. Not talking about stable orbits. I figure they spiral together *at some point* just that point could be some really long time.  [deleted] Yep the photon sphere is the smallest possible stable orbit around a black hole. Basically it is the radius where you need to be going the speed of light to keep a stable orbit, any closer and you would need to go faster than light to be stable, thus the orbit decays. Photon sphere because well... only photons get stuck there! I believe the distance is 1.5 times the swartzchild radius of the black hole, or some nice round number like that. My non-expert understanding is that it's not possible for anything to "orbit" a black hole inside a distance of twice the radius of the event horizon. 
Inside the event horizon we won't ever know what happens, but our theories are that space is so warped that any movement in space is towards the singularity. There is no direction that avoids it. 

Edit: should be 1.5, not twice. Ty /u/berychance.  For a Schwarzschild (non-rotating) Black Hole the radius of the Photon Sphere is 1.5 times the Schwarzschild/event horizon radius. So the minimum distance for a stable orbit would be one-and-a-half not twice. [deleted] Meaning, you're thinking that they're so small that they can never actually collide?
Although if they get close enough and orbit each other at extremely small distances, it shouldn't make any significant difference on their forces on outside objects. It's not entirely defined yet what a black hole looks like beyond its event horizon. Some speculate it could be an entirely new universe, others speculate it's just extremely hot and dense soup of subatomic particles (like a neutron star, but dense enough to trap light), and others even speculate it actually compresses down to a single point of space. This latter case might allow for the situation you described.

I doubt there will ever be anything but a mathematical answer to this question, even if someone does eventually figure it out. That is, I don't think it will be possible to test any possible explanation. I've actually been wondering this recently; relative to our perspective, would time even progress within the event horizon?  My understanding is that the gravitational forces, of the black hole, slow the perception of the progression of time until at the event horizon  there would be no progression as seen by an observer.   Time would go pretty much as it does now from your perspective, but space would look very different.  As you approach the event horizon, it would look like you're falling into a vast bowl, where the sides are growing up and around you, and you can see the entire universe bunched up around the edge, like it's looking over the bowl at you.  No matter which way you rotate around the black hole, the bowl seems to follow you, so you drop in, the universe contracts into a tiny ring of light far far above you.  When you finally cross the horizon, you see the ring universe fling itself away from you at faster that the speed of light, and you find yourself at just about the very center of a infinitely black sphere, and the walls around you are the singularity itself.  It would appear to you that you were *inside* the singularity.  But how can that be?  It's a tiny point and you're a full grown human?  Well, lets fix that.... the walls of the sphere are getting smaller and smaller, and as they approach they go 50 shades of gray on you, pulling you spread eagle in every direction, pulling tight.  Tighter.  Until finally you are torn apart and spread holographically across the walls of the sphere right as is crashes into an infinitesimal point smaller than nothing and then *poof*, it vanishes with a pop, and now you're back outside, scrambled up into a million jigsaw pieces, and one hundred trillion, trillion years have passed. The event horizon creates a "time bubble" of sorts. Depending on the state of the insides (any of the explanations I offered above or different ones altogether) you get different potential scenarios. Either way, the event horizon itself is more or less a divide in time. The inside has a different frame of reference to the outside, and the causality interactions between the two is likely marginal (not completely disconnected since the singularity still absorbs mass and energy, and still emits hawking radiation from its poles).

Basically, as much as I can understand it, if it weren't a separate universe it might be all just a quantum cloud of probability of it's particles. Sort of like how electrons behave around the nucleus of atoms. Under certain observational conditions they're waves, which is how they can reach the speed of light, and under others they're massive particles that exert the force of gravity into space.

This whole subject is more something that occasionally makes me scour through the web for information, but I'm no astrophysicist nor a quantum mechanics physicist. I'm just a lowly game developer with some interest in the less common (on earth) interactions with space-time. funny, i've always thought when people said the universe could be cyclical; as in, the idea that the things we think are big might be really small for somebody else. I thought that was kind of silly and we just need to learn more to prove that totally impossible. then you go and describe the event horizon of a black hole as the barrier of an entire atom. turns out maybe I just wasn't thinking small enough. like, everything that isn't a black hole is just the space between atoms.

I guess i never thought the idea was a bad one. quite interesting actually. and as far as I know, atoms don't trap (even incalculably small) bits of mass around them. I just thought it was a neat way of looking at things.

the best part is, even if somehow we figured out some crazy truth about the universe like that, a true scientist wouldn't care and would still want to learn more. I am almost positive electrons cannot reach the speed of light. Correct me if I'm wrong.  Electrons do have mass, so you're correct in saying that they can't reach c. Partially. I've also read somewhere that only non-rotating black holes have point-like singularities. Rotating black holes (i.e. Black holes formed from rotating stars) have torus-shaped singularities. I wouldn't expect the singularities to "merge" but to "mix". Kind of like a [chaotic taffy puller](http://cosmicplay.net/old/Cosmic/Crash/coscrtaffy1.html).

I know the actual math is icky but I was wondering what the current thinking about it was. Is it possible to have non-rotating black holes in nature?  I would assume that all stars rotate at least a little.. Kerr black holes have ring singularities, not torus-shaped singularities. The [nature letter](http://www.nature.com/articles/nature14241.epdf?referrer_access_token=4TsddR0wljan6MSVFCbWgtRgN0jAjWel9jnR3ZoTv0MjEI3u_E4Cj7TG8d28cyICQjrqz4Np_nm5iJe1o5ENd40y2GgMxdwwTPIkQuCes-AoWupQorCu-hNlVntR4-l7) says that black holes with such a large mass should not have existed so early in the history of the universe (according to current theory). It means we need to re-think how galaxies and black holes co-evolved in the universe. 

Abstract also says the mass of this black hole is consistent with the upper limit of the Eddington-limited accretion rate. I think it was news because scientists didn't expect to find a black hole this large that was also this old. The new theory is that super massive black holes come first after the big bang in a way called direct collapse. The amount of matter at the time was so great that the gas never forms stars and collapsed directly into black holes.  These are the seeds of the Galaxies and the stars grow from the gas surrounding it. These small galaxies run into each other and merge with the super massive black holes at the center eventually merging as well.  these mergers keep happening until you get large galaxies like ours the milky way and our close neighbor Andromeda. These are like top 10% Galaxies they can be much much bigger.  &gt; The new theory

Can you link something, preferably peer reviewed, about that? Has there been any confirmation by evidence or is this a theoretical thing? It's definitely the first I'm hearing of it.

**update:** OP responded and while it's an interesting and in my opinion plausible theory, it doesn't seem as if there's any observational evidence yet. http://www.universetoday.com/11734/never-a-star-did-supermassive-black-holes-form-directly/ There's not too much observational evidence for ANY hypotheses regarding black holes or the origin of the universe to be honest. This theory has just as much validity as any other excluding the major ones. Good thought, which would come from collisions between two galaxies. In that scenario it's conceivable that a flood of stars from galaxy A could have been pushed into the path of the SMBH in galaxy B, overcoming radiation pressure and allowing it to gorge itself. Correct me if I'm wrong but I thought that when two galaxies intersect there is actually so much empty space between stars that it isn't so much a "collision" but a massive reorganization. 

Anyway, I thought that's what I read regarding the eventual meet up between the Milky Way and the Andromeda galaxies.  Correct. Its not really a "collision" of matter as much as it is a gravitational merging of sorts 12 Billion light years away.  I can only imagine how big it must be now, or what happened to it. Also means this black hole isn't much younger than the universe, formed right in its earlier stages. Wait, correct me if I'm wrong, but just because it's 12 billion light years away, it doesn't mean it's 12 billion years old, right? Since the universe is constantly expanding, things could be more than 13.8 billion light years away and not be older than 13.8 billion years old. You're correct.  
  
The observable universe is about 93 billion light years in diameter but the universe is only 13.8 billion years old.  How can this be?  You'd think the observable universe should be about 27-28 billion light years in diameter.  It's because space is expanding while the objects in space are moving away from one another, too   Space can expand faster than speed of light! If the black hole is 12 billion light years away, then the information we are detecting now must have left at least 12 billion years ago. Therefore, we can conclude that this black hole already existed 12 billion years ago. Not necessarily true, the balloon analogy works well here, if you draw a 1cm line on a half inflated balloon and then blow it up, that line is going to get bigger. When dealing with such large time frames, this is important. Space time expands, like the balloon, so a few billion years ago, one light year of travel is going to equate to more with the expansion being factored in. So 12 billion light years away now means the information would likely be coming from less than 12 billion years ago,  because space itself has been expanding as those photons travel.

 to know exactly how much you'd need numbers I don't have, but it's definitely less. All your argument really says is that the black hole wasn't 12 billion light years away when it emitted the light were recording. Even if it takes longer for the photons to reach us due to space expansion, the photons still had to start their journey 12 billion years ago to reach us today. [deleted] It being 12 billion light years away means that we're viewing it as it existed 12 billion years ago, as it would take the light that long to reach us. It's the same reason that if the sun winked out of existence right now, you wouldn't notice for about 8 minutes.

So yeah, as I understand it, It's at least 12 billion years old. Excluding any space-time nonsense hasn't been accounted for yet. No idea if it still exists now, but it certainly existed *then.* Doesn't that ignore the expansion if the universe? The radius of the observable universe is ~46.5 Billion light years out, but we know the universe isn't that old. I get that part but the part that trips me is that I remember reading about things that are more than 13.8 billion (age of universe) light years away. If there exists such things (and surely, they cannot be above 13.8 billion years old), then maybe this principle (that lya doesn't accurately reflect the age of an object) applies also to this 12 billion lya black hole.  

Or maybe I'm just over thinking this. There are things more than 13.8 billion light years away, but we have no way of observing them, because the light (information) emitted would have had to take longer to get to us than the universe has existed. Does that make sense? But the universe is expanding. The diameter of the observable universe is 93 billion light years across. Things at the edge may have only emitted the light 13 billion years ago, but due to the rate of expansion we know how far out the are now.  Isn't the rate of expansion only pertinent to the observable universe? Objects that lay more than the age of the universe in light years away can not be observed, and we really don't know how far away anything outside of the observable universe is. Yes, but the edge of the observable universe is 46 billion light years away due to the expansion.  I think you are exactly correct.

Though I haven't gotten into the theories of what lies BEYOND 28 Billion light years, I would imagine that nobody wakes up in the morning on a planet circling a star and they witness the 'edge" of the Universe. It would seamlessly wrap around to the "other side" since in this dimension -- that's all that exists. From everyone's point of view in the Universe -- they can see the same distance out and appear to be in the center.

The Universe may be infinite -- which is a mind boggling concept. I also think that the "Big Bang" is a cycle -- and happens over and over again -- but not the way current theory holds. Space might be what is "flowing back" in time to the beginning, and our particles are what will be "space" at the end (when there is too much space and likely forces like Gravity and Electromagnetism will change in force (due to the geometry of the Universe and relative concentration). 

Anyway, I love this kind of pondering and I'm always trying to imagine alternative theories to explain phenomena. It's clear that there are more dimensions than just 4 involved which "allows for" relativity and particles that affect each other over vast distances instantaneously . Can we be friends? You are the type of person I could chat with for hours about this stuff. [deleted] This makes my brain hurt.  What did it say?  Pretty sure for this to happen, the black hole would have to be expanding at a rate exceeding the speed of light by a factor of a few hundred million. Correct me if I'm wrong. I'm not qualified to correct you. I'm qualified to agree that I most certainly am not qualified  [deleted] Where does it say its 12 Billion ly away. It doesn't say anywhere in the article that it is 12 billion light years away. They only mention that the black hole was created 900 million years after the big bang (12.8 billion years ago). They actually don't even mention what point in time we're seeing, but for the sake of argument, lets assume the light we're seeing was emitted roughly at that time.

Due to the expansion of the universe, our observable universe is 93 billion light years across. (I.e. it has a radius of ~46 billion light years) If the light from the black hole was sent out 12.8 light years ago, the objects themselves will now be much further away from us. An object whose light was emitted 900m years after the big bang would be pretty near the edge of the observable universe and would therefore likely be closer to 46 ly away than 12.8. The light itself would only have traveled for 12.8b ly, but in the meantime, the space behind it has been stretching a lot.  [deleted] [deleted] I did some math to make an analogy for those who just see 12 billion as some big number.

Given that the sun is represented as a baseball, this black hole is approximately two and a half empire state buildings worth of baseball-suns. While admirable, the size difference would likely be much different than that comparison. This article says it is 12 Billion times the *mass* of the sun, not the volume. Due to black holes being so dense, I'd say it's probably not as big a difference in size as that.

I remember hearing somewhere that a black hole with the mass of Mt. Everest would be the size of a pin head, or somesuch. Science time! 

The mass in a black hole actually takes up 0 volume as far as we can tell, but the radius of a black hole is considered to be measured at the event horizon. 

We have an equation for calculating this distance from the mass. The equation is 2GM/c^2 

Now G is the gravitational constant and c is the speed of light. I've read that the sun, if it were to suddenly be a black hole of equivalent mass, would have a radius of 3km. 

The sun weigh apprx 1.9x10^30kg, and with the wonders of technology I can now type an atrocity into google and it will solve it. So let's see if what I've read matches the equation... 


    G(2*1.9*10^30kg)/c^2 =2.82km

Well we're in the ballpark, and that's the kinda answer you'd round up to 3 for easiness' sake. 

Now this black hole has a mass 12 billion times the mass of the sun, let's plug that in 

    G(2*1.9*10^30kg*12*10^9)/c^2 

I now get 3.3*10^10 km! Holy moley that's huge, but we're talking about a LOT of mass here, the black hole at the center of our galaxy seems to have a mass of 400 million of our sun. 12 billion is... well... let's take a look at how big that event horizon is. 

Luckily we have a handy tool called WolframAlpha that can give us some comparisons. This time it... [struggles to find anything of that magnitude that a layperson can understand](http://www.wolframalpha.com/input/?i=3.3*10^10km). It's farther than Voyager 1 has gone, our best effort at sending something away from us as fast as possible has not yet *travelled the distance of this black hole's radius*. Voyager 1 has now traveled 1.9x10^10km, though WA quotes its distance as of 2006 as around 1.5x10^10km.   

The event horizon on this black hole is far bigger than our Solar System.   

And for shits and giggles. The empire state building weighs 317,514,659kg. That is a bloody lot. Let's say it suddenly becomes a black hole, leaving scientists excited and the general population dismayed. We get a radius of 5*10^-19 m. Is this comparable to, say, a pinhead? Nope. What about an atom? Nope. What about a single proton from an atom? Getting close. It's about a third of a proton's width. A black hole of this size would immediately evaporate due to hawking radiation. 



   Thank you, i really appreciated the time you took to do that.

I dont have gold to give, so here, have a emojii:

 Don't ever give me gold. A good thanks is enough. Can you imagine trying to avoid black holes the size of pinheads while flying your spacecraft? 

What a pain!  [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] I'm fairly confident he linked to [this video](http://www.reddit.com/r/space/comments/2s3u03/stunning_video_of_the_scale_of_black_holes/). I could be wrong, but given that you were interested enough in the topic to click on this post then it will be worth a watch regardless. [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] Or you can feel super-significant given your massive size compared to atomic particles. It's up to you.  [deleted] The graphics, music and explanation were pretty awesome, thank you!

Edit: Since the original comment was deleted, after quite a bit of searching, I found the linked video for you: http://youtu.be/QgNDao7m41M Can anyone link the video? The parent comment is deleted and I missed it :( Why wouldn't we be here if black holes didn't exist? Would think that would need some explaining.  They create a galactic center for matter (stars, planets, rocks, dust) to form around and eventually form little solar systems.  But not all galaxies have them at the center, right? I was under the impression that pinwheel galaxies like our own do. Makes sense, having a massive gravity well at the center for everything to swirl around (like water down the drain). Other irregular galaxies like megallanic clouds could just be a massive cluster of stars with no central gravity well, but held in formation by the collective gravity of the whole mass. But water eventually goes down the drain. Is something like that going to happen to our galaxy? No. Unless you're in range of a blackhole, you'll just orbit around. Similar to how the moon doesnt fall to the earth Still though, orbits do decay, including Sol's. It just happens so slowly that we have more immediate things to worry about.

Edit - Yes, the Moon is moving further away. Orbits lose energy by emitting gravitational waves due to the oscillation. It's happening to the Moon too, gravitational waves just affect things so slowly that the Moon's motion away from Earth "outweighs" it. You're both going at this wrong. Yes, we could fall in, but we could also fly off. Orbits do not all decay, although that of planetoid bodies tend to for complex reasons I'd rather not go into now. 

Water goes down a drain die to friction and gravity, orbital bodies have no friction so they have no general decay amongst their orbits.  I believe the Galaxy is orbiting the black hole rather than just slowly spiraling down into it.  Its already happening. Just on a time scale we will never comprehend. Not really, we're orbiting it right now, less of  a drain and more of a gravitational anchor that's tied to sections of rope that extend out to other massive bodies(solar systems, other black holes) which are in turn tethered to bodies further out, we are one such body, anchored to the earth, which is anchored to the sun, etc(it's actually much more complicated than this, I'm just simplifying for visualizations sake). each body has momentum that keeps it swinging around its own anchor, thankfully gravity doesn't use actual tethers otherwise things would get complicated fast

(note, not an astrophysicist, please educate my ass if im wrong) [deleted] No, the Galaxy isn't spiraling in like a drain. What causes the spiral is (I think) more similar to a gravity/density wave emanating from the center of the Galaxy that causes matter to condense into a spiral pattern. Someone correct me if I'm wrong.  Not sure about the exact answer, but the point is that ours DOES. So, even if life still existed somewhere else, WE would not be here without black holes. It's impossibly unlikely that things as large as galaxies wouldn't have black holes in the centre.  Because they play a key role in the formation of galaxies. Without galaxies, there's no us.  Am i getting this right?

If a black hole is larger the galaxy around it has been around for a while? I mean all those suns took time to swallow up, right?

So the biggest black holes took a long time to get huge?

Wouldn't those galaxies be the place where evolution has had the most time to create life?  The OP link said 12 Billion times more massive than the sun. This video showed one that is 20 billion Suns. Shouldn't we be more impressed by this video? I'm not the best mathematician... it is created by the mass of 20 billion suns. the one in op's link has the volume of 20 billion suns so it is far far more massive The biggest one, from the video, is the size of mars in diameter, with the mass (weight) of 20 billion suns. The one they just found is 12 billion times larger than our sun, (in diameter), and probably weighs more than we'll ever comprehend. I believe the Mars-size one was 1000 solar masses, whereas the 20-billion-solar-mass hole was sizably larger than our entire solar system. My jaw hasn't dropped that far down in a while. This is why I'm terrified of being a bag of meat on a rock in outer space.  The intro says "infinite gravity". How does that make sense? Black holes still have a finite gravity, no?

edit: the above comment was originally linking to a neat, but possible not 100% accurate youtube video about black holes and their Schwarzschild Radii. [deleted] That last one was actually quite horrifying. Nicely done vid.    It compared that last black hole to the solar system. I'm assuming that only includes up to Pluto, and no further? Is that the largest known object in the universe?    

Is it even an object?  

(Edit: thank you for the replies. Even with a graduate degree, I am reminded of the gaps and limitations in my education. I also feel even smaller in our universe. Thank you again.) The [HerculesCorona Borealis Great Wall](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hercules%E2%80%93Corona_Borealis_Great_Wall) is 10 *billion* light-years long, but I'm not sure that can really be called an object either. The universe is just too big for our puny little words. [deleted] There are about 5 sextillion grains of sand on Earth's beaches. If you were to travel a mile for every one of those grains of sand, you'd cover 850 million light years, or less than 10% of the distance. An uncountable number of miles, a number so enormous that 99.9% of people will never have *any* use for it, is a fairly minor dent in the scope at hand. I'm curious, when people quote some number of grains of sand, does it mean just the on land? 

Does it mean just the 1st layer of sand on land? 

Is 'sand' in the water even classified as sand anymore?  The number I quoted was for beaches... IDK about all of it. I mean, it makes no difference for the sake of illustrating a glimps of how massive that is. Both are very abstract numbers to our imagination.  If you were to count each second it would take more than 317 years to reach ten billion. It's a pretty significant figure, a mind-boggling span that makes China's efforts seem quite adorable. It's like a vast, tattered web, and all of it speckled with bright galaxies. So many, in fact, that if every person on Earth were to search for life around one star each second, it would still take nearly a million and a half years to explore them all. And those are just the ones we can see. For all we know, it might just go on forever... &gt; The universe is just too big for our puny little words.

Surprisingly true. When we're thinking about things on the scale of the universe we certainly notice structure/form (the key competent of Objects) but it also points to the idea that there is only one "object" that ultimately matters: the universe itself.  This is all happening so fast... spotted the platonist [deleted] The singularity may not be big, but if you include the schwarzschild radius the black hole is pretty damn large.  It has a radius of [~237 au](http://www.wolframalpha.com/input/?i=Schwarzschild+radius+of+12+billion+solar+masses), which is about four and a half times larger than the farthest distance Pluto gets from the sun ([~49 au](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pluto)).  In astronomical terms that's nothing special, but it's pretty big compared to anything we know in everyday life. [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] Direct link to Nature article: [An ultraluminous quasar with a twelve-billion-solar-mass black hole at redshift 6.30](http://www.nature.com/articles/nature14241.epdf?referrer_access_token=OAbIq_OD2FfNSgeJcv1COtRgN0jAjWel9jnR3ZoTv0MjEI3u_E4Cj7TG8d28cyICQjrqz4Np_nm5iJe1o5ENd9-riZ7h2PU00mobiZQIuh0xSPUhlFiO6npMktJw18pO) I would like an image of our solar system next to this black hole for scale. By my own calculations (Using the 12e9 solar mass value for mass and the Schwartzchild radius formula, and using the edge of the Kuiper belt as the radius of the solar system), the radius of the event horizon would be around 4.737 times the radius of the solar system. I know some of those words Thank you for the response. I don't think this is the record breaker, correct me if I'm wrong, but OJ 287 has a supermassive black hole 18bn times the mass of the Sun, along with another SMBH orbiting it 

Source: https://medium.com/starts-with-a-bang/the-largest-black-hole-in-the-known-universe-67b792a1d856

(bottom)  I think the record this broke is the size of a black hole of this age. The theory in question has to do with the growth rate of black holes, not their ultimate size. The title was worded in a way that suggested otherwise, though  [S5 0014+81](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/S5_0014%2B81#Supermassive_black_hole) has one that weighs in at 40 billion solar masses. That quasar's ridiculously gorgeous! That's an artistic depiction buddy.  ELI5: What is a quasar? I was under the impression a quasar was a super massive black hole. A quasar is just a name for a type of galaxy that contains an extremely luminous active galactic nuclei (AGN). An AGN is a supermassive blackhole that is accreting gas at a high rate, which produces massive amounts of luminosity. In quasars, the luminosity from the AGN generally dwarfs the other luminosity from the host galaxy (e.g. from stars).  Essentially it's the immediate area around a SMBH, the tightly compact group of stars and gas, like at the center of a galaxy. I thought a quasar was the jet of particles ejected from a black hole while it is feeding You're correct, I was thinking of what is powering the quasar. I've always wondered, could it be possible that black holes are just all big bangs, and that all the matter getting sucked in is being released/reprocessed on the other side forming a new universe? Maybe black holes could explain the multiverse theory? So when a star reaches super critical mass, what is happening is that the mass is so dense, it breaks the space time continuity and forms a new universe with it's own unique set of rules, but on our side it just appears as a black hole as all the matter gets sucked into the new universe? Does this even make any sense? I think it's tempting for those of us who are pretty well informed but not actually astrophysicists (myself included) to make a connection between the singularity that likely existed at the beginning of the Big Bang and the singularities that exist in black holes. The mystery of those two things seems similar and we are creatures that love patterns and connections. But from my admittedly simple understanding of things, black holes and the Big Bang are very, very different things, and there's no reason to think that there are little universes inside each black hole. 

Just my two cents.  The similarity occurs because both things (the singularity at the beginning of our universe and the centre of black holes) occur at the "limit" of our equations. It is essentially like divide by zero of our entire understanding of physics. It is likely we will never know what exactly "exists" in both cases, as in each case, the entire concept of "existing" (along with "time", and other fundamental concepts we require to even understand anything) may not be relevant.  Even if that is true, that's an ideology, not a theory because of of right now, I cannot think of a way to disprove that (much like string theory) Is a black hole not an actual hole but just an immensely dense object? I've heard of that "spitting out to another universe" theory but thought that an actual black hole is not a hole at all Basically, yes, an immensely dense ripple in space and time. Like someone mentioned below, it could be a 4-dimensional portal that exists in our universe, the event horizon could be the portal, that could be the big bang "on the other side", the other 3-dimensional universe on the other side. Now you're thinking with portals. This is a theory already, check more into it, it's awesome!  How much reason is there to believe it to be true? I'm no expert but it seems to me that Hawking radiation sort of puts a damper on that idea, since it means that black holes would gradually lose the mass they've taken in. Doesn't account for everything though, from what I read and understand it is more of a evaporation from the hole, it doesn't necessarily account for the all the matter it sucked in, remember, Hawking Radiation is a relatively new theory, and I'm sure with all the new discoveries that have been made, even Hawking himself is most likely speculating about these extra dimensional theories himself as we type. [deleted] Need smarter stoner nerd friends. The people I'm with are not impressed at all by this. Question! If our sun was at the center of this black hole, how much of our solar system would it engulf? 
 All of it. And then some. And then a little more.  And then a little more than *that.* It'll be much [bigger](http://www.reddit.com/r/science/comments/2x58e4/black_hole_breaks_records_swallows_up_scientific/coxa6zz) than our solar system. What did the comment say? It got deleted All of it. Is it possible that there was no Big Bang? Could it have been black hole in another universe punching through into our universe? You're not the first to suggest such a thing. [deleted] [deleted] &gt;I wonder how many civilizations it destroyed

At least 0. [deleted] [deleted] This might be a dumb question but, how do we observe black holes? How I understand it is that we look at the stars by absorbing the light that travels to us, but since black holes absorbs the light, how can we see it?

I'm sorry if it sounds silly, but I barely know anything about science and black holes. Not a silly question at all.  It seems that one of the most common way they are observed is through their interactions with other matter around them.  For instance, [Sagittarius A*](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sagittarius_A*) near the center of the Milky Way.  It is an apparent black hole and part of the reason we think that at the center of most glaxies is a super massive black hole.   A lot of information about the mass of of this point is inferred by looking at other objects orbiting it or just sling-shotting around it.  

There are other ways, involving excitation of the in-falling matter which can give off radiation.  Gamma Ray bursts are a possibility.  I'm not incredibly well versed, but there's a short run down. Cut the military budget in half and put it all toward NASA and private industry that focuses on space related research and travel. [deleted] Because people comment shit like "I guess they found OPs mom's vagina" and it gets deleted for being off topic I think it's mostly stupid unrelated jokes seen in places like /r/funny.
People may click on this thread to learn more about the stuff posted and they see these shit jokes flooding the thread and instead of explanations. The mods do a great job keeping this place clean &amp; relevant imo. [deleted] Could this be The Great Attractor?
http://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Great_Attractor That page says the Great Attractor is 10^5 times more massive than the Milky Way. The Milky Way has 400 billion stars. This black hole is 3% the mass of the Milky Way. So no. Does this mean its 12 billion times larger than the sun or more dense than the sun? If its larger, how big would it be compared to our solar system? Neither. It is 12 billion times more massive than the sun. For a black hole of that size the event horizon would be 3.5e10 km away (the Schwarzschild radius). That's 50,000 times the sun's radius, or 234 AU (Earth orbit radius). At it's farthest distance Pluto is 48.9 AU away from the sun.

Edit: I screwed up guys, but what's being off by a thousand among friends! The Schwarzchild radius wouldn't be 3.5e10 km, it would only be 3.5e10 METERS, so divide everything else by a thousand. So it would be 50 times the radius of the sun (225,000 times it's volume), and just under a quarter of an AU away. So even Mercury at it's closest approach would be outside the event horizon! Until tidal forces crumbled it into dust that was slowed down by the PoyntingRobertson effect and drawn inwards. The article interchangeably uses "size" and "mass". So it's 12 billion times the volume of the sun, which is terrifying because it's mass would be even bigger, or is it just talking about mass in the article? [deleted] You say that like it's a bad thing. Hope it swallows up that bitch who parked in the hadicappped spot. [deleted] This is a very interesting discussion. I have just one question for you physics master's: just how does one determine the mass of a black hole?  A black hole can be 'weighed' by measuring its gravitational effects on other objects, the same as other massive objects. Based on the conventional laws of motion and attraction, we know how massive an object would have to be to have a given observed effect. If we can see the effect but not the object, we can still weigh the object.
 Hopefully this is in the next space engine update. 'With measurements indicating it is 12 billion times more massive than the Sun,'

and..

'But with measurements indicating it is 12 billion times the size of the Sun,'

Derp. Ctrl+C Ctrl+V to hastily pad out copy much? In this context massive means mass not size. explainlikeimfive hmm...did anyone else think that doesn't sound that big?

The BIGGEST black hole in the universe...i'd have expected it to be 50 TRILLION times the mass of the sun or something. 

 I keep wondering if any intelligent life was lost.  [deleted] It's 12 billion lightyears away. It would never be any kind of threat to us. Don't worry.  But how can you be sure.....I mean, what do we REALLY KNOW about systems like this....? I'm hearing way too many "we don't really understand this?" to not worry.

Yeah....Pretty sure this is gonna eat us all.


"How to serve Man" I'm not sure you realize how far away 12 billion lights years away is... How old is the universe?


That sucker could be right on top of us, and we would never know it.


I heard gravity effects can be faster than light, but I just heard that from some smart people I know.  &gt;That sucker could be right on top of us, and we would never know it.

Yes we would. If it were moving towards us, then it would be blue shifted and we could tell based on the amount of blue shift how fast it were traveling.

Furthermore, things that are this far away from use are there because they are moving away from us faster than other things (Hubble's Law). It makes no sense for it to be traveling towards use in the first place. 

&gt;I heard gravity effects can be faster than light, but I just heard that from some smart people I know.

That is incorrect. Gravity can only propagate at the speed of light.  What about quantum entanglement? Why can we send information faster than the speed of light?

I know it sounds like I'm trolling, and at this point, admittedly, I kind of am, but I don't understand how we can instantaneously superposition two infomational media faster than the speed of light, yet not understand that black holes may have superproperties beyond pure physics models.

Totally armchair, and a little buzzed, please forgive me. Quantum Entanglement happens instantly, but it doesn't allow for the transfer of classic information. In order for the changes in the entangled particles to make sense, you need to share other classical information.

More importantly, the current theories of quantum mechanics and gravity don't align, which is currently a huge deal in physics. So I'm not sure what you're trying to get by comparing the two. 

We recognized that black holes "break" our models of physics, but they only do so within the event horizon. Outside, they are consistent with pure physics models.  You and me both ! I mean, there is still so much we don't know. And understanding black holes is just the cusp. I mean, pretty much all logic and physics goes out the window when we try to understand them. IIRC.  Anyone get the Muse song stuck in their head now? Supermassive Black Hole.... Wait, so is it 12 billion times wider, or 12 billion times the mass?  More massive meaning having more mass. 12 billion times the mass. Black holes are singularities. That's not true. The center of a black hole contains a singularity but the black hole itself has a radius. Thats the event horizon. The gravity of the singularity is stupid-strong from that point inward. The actual black hole is still just a singularity though. I'm sorry but that's just wrong. A black whole is regarded as the volume from which no light escapes. A quick look at wikipedia already says the following:

&gt; The size of a black hole, **as determined by the radius of the event horizon**, or Schwarzschild radius, is roughly proportional to (...)

[Source](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Black_hole) The event horizon has a radius. But it's not actually a thing. Just a place.  I see this everywhere.  I'm not a physicist, but what then is the Schwarzschild radius? http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Schwarzschild_radius


Specifically the first sentence of that article. I obviously at least read the Wikipedia article.  From the same article:

&gt;Any object whose radius is smaller than its Schwarzschild radius is called a black hole.

So a black hole can have a nonzero radius, and hence not be a singularity, as long as its radius is below the Schwarzschild radius.  At least, that is what the article is implying, and you always hear this "black holes have no dimensions" shtick. Maybe for a short period of time it has a radius as it collapses when initially formed, but that only lasts for a brief moment. The singularity itself is a 0-D point in space. Black holes do take up space in that they have an event horizon which, once passed, light cannot escape. The radius of that is given by the Schwartzchild radius. So basically if you compressed an object with mass x down to the SC radius for a mass x, it would collapse into a black hole. This is, of course, very hard to do, so only very massive objects collapse normally. Thanks.  I can't say I understand black holes completely, but this is good enough for now and I have a different PhD to earn before I get a physics one. &gt; The singularity itself is a 0-D point in space.

The singularity itself is something we can't describe with our current understanding of physics. I don't think it can be a "0-D point in space" though, that just sounds too ridiculous and is rather an example of imperfect theories that we use to describe black holes. I like to describe singularities as "the place where relativity gives up". What would the sc radius of the earth? 
Or a person? IIRC, the Earth's is around the size of a peanut. Using the formula for schwarzschild radius I attained about 35.4 billion kilometers in radius. The radius from the singularity (central point) to the event horizon I guess It's the radius of the event horizon, the spherical shell of no return surrounding the singularity.  [deleted] Honestly, I was like this is "true" cosmic horror, the last one sent shivers down my spine.
 Wait, only 12 billion? According to wiki and other sources, we've found a black hole equivalent to 40 billion solar masses:

http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/S5_0014%2B81 While the headline makes it seem like the size of the black hole is the amazing thing, the article itself makes it clear that's not why it's groundbreaking. The reason it is unexpected is a combination of its size and age, meaning that it grew much faster than was thought possible.

While that wikipedia page describes a black hole 40 billion solar masses, our measurements of that black hole are from 1.6 billion years after the big bang. The black hole described by OP is "only" 12 billion solar masses, but that was only 900 million years after the big bang. Apparently that is more impressive. This is the largest black hole we've seen at this age, the article is more about how the size of the black hole relates to its age. There appears to be a slight age discrepancy, but not much. The record relates to age as well as mass. Black holes this massive weren't predicted to be a possibility at this age. [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] The change will be less drastic than the previous 30 or 40 years. The fastest times of change were from around 1900-1980 or so. That's when all the modern physics breakthroughs happened. We're still coasting on the breakthroughs in basic science that happened from 1900-1950. There hasn't really been any major breakthrough since then, so while technology continues to advance, the improvements are incremental improvements rather than radical change.
 [deleted] [deleted] Modern electronics and Modern computers are definitely tied to Quantum Physics (flash drives and tiny chips), but functional computers can be created without any knowledge of Quantum Physics whatsoever.  They just won't be as good or fast as today's computers. When people think of all the technological advances in the past 10-20 years, they're thinking of semiconductor-based computers which are all based on quantum. True.  I just wanted to establish that the concept of computing or a "computer" is not tied to quantum physics.  [deleted] [deleted] Matter can't be in two places at once. We can measure the mass of black holes. The matter consumed is still there. If it were just a hole, why would the mass ever increase, and why are they different sizes? At the exact moment it became a black hole, wouldn't the remaining matter flow through?

Also depending on where you think it'd flow to, there's many other reasons why it wouldn't make sense. I won't presume you mean going to other universes or anything.

Stuff like quantum stars and such are cooler theories IMO. Basically if you assume there's some force we don't know of that can stop the collapse of matter once the black holes are formed, you don't have to worry about the conservation of energy or infinities. Think of it as a collapsing star that goes supernova. What if something like that occurs inside a black hole? At that density, gravity is so strong that time would be impossible to comprehend. Something that in reality would take mere moments to collapse would take absurd amounts of time from our perspective. Just because they look static from the outside, inside, time is very different.  How is it possible for singularities to form if stuff takes longer and longer to happen the closer it gets to the middle? The whole point in stuff like this

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Black_star_%28semiclassical_gravity%29

Is that there is no singularity. It is the singularity that creates all the strange paradoxes and such. 

http://www.nature.com/news/quantum-bounce-could-make-black-holes-explode-1.15573

Basically these theories state that no singularity is created, the black hole is merely collapsing to a point in which some force repulses everything, and it erupts, explodes or something similar. 

The universe is not that old, relatively speaking. Due to time dilation, maybe there just hasn't been enough time for even the first black hole ever created to do anything we can detect. Maybe in a few trillion years, observers will look out into space and see all these white holes and have no idea where they come from. They'll ask "maybe it's coming from another universe!?"  It's not really a 'hole' though. &gt; It's not really a 'hole' though.

Could be.  NO one has really seen the inside of it.  We have no idea what it's all about outside of infinities. Exactly. It could be anything just about. We've never seen inside one (and ofcourse never will) and we can never send in instruments or observers to report back to us. And our math breaks down when trying to describe just exactly what a black hole is.

So anyone's theory about it is just as valid as anyone elses. No, mass is largely conserved inside black holes, so they aren't sinks to anywhere. The only mass loss is through conversion to energy.

There are some theories that are clearly wrong, and the theory that black holes are a sink to somewhere is one of them. &gt;So anyone's theory about it is just as valid as anyone elses.

Yeah well, I rather listen to people who study this stuff that to people who don't understand that "black hole" is just a name and not an accurate description.

By the way, according to some theories quantum effects prevent objects from collapsing into singularities. Which would mean that black holes are just extremely dense objects. Never is not a word to use when describing anything you do not know about. You cannot say we'll never know what's inside one, because we haven't gotten close enough or sent a probe close enough to look. Does that mean we'll never know? I don't know, I can't say, and neither can you. [deleted] &gt;yeah, it could be magical flying invisible unicorns, but i doubt it so yeah

Did you just learn about the burden of proof and Russell's Teapot?  I think it's silly to compare these two things as if a "white hole" is at all the same as a flying invisible unicorn.  One is clearly accepted as a very real possibility via studies in quantum mechanics and the other is just you having some fallacious reasoning.

The concept of a black hole leading into another very mysterious **very real possibility** dubbed a "white hole" is a very real concept and I challenge you to learn more about it.  Lest you forgot that the very concept of a "black hole" wasn't even thought possible, although our mathematics told us so, by many, many, and more many prominent scientists until it was proven in 1994 via the hubble (among other methods in conjunction). &gt; just googling white hole, it says that its the opposite of a black hole, in the sense that you cannot enter it from the outside, but light and matter can escape from it, so from that im understanding that something inside of the white hole would have to produce matter and or light for it to spit it out, because no matter or light can go into it for it to be spit out (possibly another universe), am i understanding it correctly?

 Have any good articles about black holes? Oh! I was part of this study in Halifax, Nova Scotia when I was in university. I'm still waiting to find out which version I received. The double-blind means I either got Gardasil or what my nurses were calling the Merck 9-valent vaccine. 

Now I'm hoping I got the new one 

If anyone is curious about what the process of the study was like, feel free to ask!  I'm completely ignorant to medical studies. Just never really thought about it. Does this mean they they gave you the vaccine, then exposed you to HPV to see if it maybe worked? They might do this to cells in a lab to see if the vaccine ingredients work, but for trials that involve human participants it would be a gross violation of ethics standards to expose anyone to a virus that would cause cancer intentionally. 

The way these types of medical studies would work would be to give one group the experimental vaccine, and one group a placebo, and then see if they groups have different rates of cancer development/ or if they contracted certain strains of HPV at certain rates. They would come into contact with HPV through their normal course of living. 
Note that "placebo" does not necessarily mean some sort of saline injection or inert vaccine. In order to perform a proper trial, the vaccine has to be compared to something similar in order to determine if it is the vaccine that is working. Plus, it would be unethical to withhold a life saving vaccine from the control group. So in the case of this trial, the placebo was an already established safe and effective vaccine against some types of HPV. 

Or, another example is that if you are trying to determine if your new blood pressure drug works, you don't compare it to nothing - you compare it to an already established effective drug.  That's a relief. I assumed it would be unethical to intentionally expose someone to something like HPV intentionally, especially when trying to figure out if a vaccine is even effective or not. It just didn't seem like there would be any kind of conclusion to be drawn unless you knew for sure every subject was exposed to it. Again, I'm pretty ignorant to medical studies, so I'm probably not imagining amount of participants, depth of information about their sexual activity gathered, or the time scale of the study correctly.

The fact that the "placebo" used can be a preexisting method also clears up a lot. I did not realize this was part of the process, although I knew some type of control group would be needed.

Thank you! Then you don't really call it a placebo at all; a placebo has a definite technical definition, something which physiologically does nothing.

The already-effective drug used to compare is simply the control. [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] Before first sexual activity is best, so early teens ideally.

Note though that not everywhere routinely vaccinates boys; the UK for example only offers the vaccine to girls and the CDC in the US only recommended it for boys relatively recently. 

It is only recommended now in the US for boys after Merck (the manufacturer of Gardasil) spent millions lobbying for it and creating a sense of panic that it was an essential vaccine. [Almost no country other than the US recommends it for boys-](http://eiw.euro.who.int/profiles/blogs/hpv-vaccination-in-eu-countries-review-of-new-evidence) in the entire European Union only one, Austria does, for example, and even there they won't pay for it, you have to buy it out of pocket. 

It's not a cheap vaccine and so if you have limited resources it makes sense to prioritise giving it to girls as they are the ones that it is much more likely to cause serious health risks (cancer) for. It can cause cancer in men also, but it's much less likely to.

Many doctors and medical authorities feel that vaccinating boys simply doesn't make sense given the expense of the vaccine. It's certainly not the most essential childhood vaccine for boys, if you were going to skip one, this would be the one to skip. 

&gt; Given currently available information, including boys in an HPV vaccination programme generally exceeds conventional thresholds of good value for money, even under favourable conditions of vaccine protection and health benefits. 

http://www.bmj.com/content/339/bmj.b3884.long

&gt;There was incredible pressure from industry and politics, said Dr. Jon Abramson, a professor of pediatrics at Wake Forest University who was chairman of the committee of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention that recommended the vaccine for all girls once they reached 11 or 12.

&gt; This big push is making people crazy  thinking theyre bad moms if they dont get their kids vaccinated, said Dr. Abby Lippman, a professor at McGill University in Montreal and policy director of the Canadian Womens Health Network. [...] 

&gt;One rationale for inoculating boys is that entire populations should be vaccinated to achieve what is called herd immunity. But critics ask whether it is worth conducting a campaign on the scale of the one used against polio to eliminate a generally harmless virus.

&gt;Said Dr. Raffle, the British cervical cancer specialist: Oh, dear. If we give it to boys, then all pretense of scientific worth and cost analysis goes out the window.

http://www.nytimes.com/2008/08/20/health/policy/20vaccine.html?_r=0&amp;pagewanted=all [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] Please, they never talk about gay sex in sex ed. We're supposed to just figure it out on our own because we can't be acknowledged. That's not gonna change any time soon. [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] Could someone who understands immunology better than I do explain what this would mean for patients who have already received earlier versions of the HPV vaccine?

If someone received the bivalent or quadrivalent vaccine, can they receive some form of this vaccine to be covered for the other strains as well? Also, would it have to be a vaccine against only the strains which the patient hadn't been vaccinated against in the past, or could they receive the regular nine-strain vaccine?  Hi, virology grad student. People who received the 4 strain vaccine should still be able to get this one. What would likely happen is that the response to the previous 4 strains would be boosted (which would be a good thing) and a new response would be mounted against the new strains. One potential problem is that if the new strains are very similar to the old strains, the immune system can't really tell the new ones apart and mounts a semi-response to them using the B and T cells it generated against the original strains. However I think HPV strains are different enough that this wouldn't happen. I will definitely be following this and will get the new vaccine, even though I've had my three doses of the old vaccine, whenever it's available. It can't do any harm but it could do me some good... Awesome, thanks for explaining!  As a follow up, what about people who have had a form of HPV, will this vaccine still protect them from other strains? Yes. [deleted] Can you be more specific? Did you receive the regular Gardasil vaccine, or is Gardasil-9 available already?

I had the regular Gardasil series as a teen. I'm in my twenties now and would be very interested to receive this new vaccine as well. [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] I'm so glad there is a vaccine now. At 18 I had a highly aggressive strain of HPV and had pre-cancerous cells on my cervix. (No warts or outward signs of an infection). Had to have outpatient surgery to get them removed and had to go back for pap smears every 3 months to make sure they were gone. That was 12 years ago, and paps have been good ever since (been with same person since). 

People don't realize you can get HPV even if you are using a condom. Skin to skin contact is all that is needed. These might sound silly, but what if both people are virgins? And by skin-to-skin contact...what do you mean?  Don't hesitate to ask intelligent questions at the cost of sounding "silly."  

Skin to skin contact means it doesn't require unprotected penis to vagina contact, but the skin around your genitals can transmit it.  So you can still get it even if you're being safe and wearing a condom.  

As for the virgin issue, someone more informed will let you know, I'm in the dark about that too.  

 People frequently lie about virginity.  There's that, but I'm 99% sure my SO and I are each other's firsts! If you were both virgins then yes, you should be okay. Just so you know, there are many strains of HPV and not all do the same. 6, 11 are the two main strains to cause genital warts. 16, 18, 31, 33, and 45 are the high risk HPV (can often lead to cancer). The previous only protected against, 6, 11, 16, and 18. I'm not sure about the new one.  So if you want to get the new vaccine go for it, it doesn't hurt to be safe. Will they only release one version that protects against 9 strains, or will they also release an "add-on" for those of us who already got the Gardasil 4-strain one, does anyone know?


I would like an "add-on" option, because it seems like they continue to improve on number of strains it protects against. What if in a few years it protects against 15 and then I'd be vaccinated against the same 4 strains 3 times...and then in another few years it protects againts 17 strains....seems like an add-on would be a good idea.  Very doubtful. Go ahead and get the new one when it becomes available. Getting re-vaccinated for the strains in the quadrivalent version won't hurt you and may actually boost your immunity to them. If it will boost my immunity to them, does that same logic apply to other vaccines?  Like, I should I get another MMR shot since measles is becoming a thing again?  Should I re-do my Hep B and Hep A vaccines in like 10 years? Several vaccines have available boosters. In some instances, you can check the level of your antibody titers then administer boosters accordingly. This is done frequently in the case of hep for healthcare workers. [deleted] yes. and after 26 because clinical trials were not performed outside the age group. see other comments I got a Gardasil vaccine at 29 year old male. The doctor told me it's less effective as you've more likely been exposed if you're sexually active, but if it's available it really couldn't hurt. Take this with a grain of salt though as I personally have no idea what I'm talking about. HPV researcher here!

I see a lot of people just linking HPV to cervical cancer here, but for all of you guys out there you can get an HPV-related cancer as well! In fact, there is an ever growing number of head and neck cancers that are HPV positive showing up in non-smokers (Mehanna, H. et al 2013 - Head Neck || Hoffman, M. et al 2013 - Oncology Reports). Given the fact that current vaccination rates in the US are 37.6% and 13.6% for young women and men, respectively (Stokley, S. et al 2014 - MMWR Morbidity and mortality weekly report) it is becoming critical that people realize vaccination against HPV is a way to prevent HPV-related cancers. With the 9-valent vaccine you are also protected from low-risk types which are associated  with wart formation as well. 

Edit: high-risk HPV can also cause other genital cancers such as anal and penile (or anything with a stratified squamous epithelial layer), but without both males and females being vaccinated you still have the ability of both sexes acting as vectors for viral transmission. Harald Zur Hausen, claims that if you should vaccinate both genders, but if you could only vaccinate one gender, it should be the men. As a current HPV researcher, I'd really love to hear what you think of his claim?

http://www.scientificamerican.com/article/hpv-cancers-in-men-take-off It's a logical solution if our only option to vaccinate one gender, but we do not have to play that game. The only way we have a chance at eliminating specific HPV strains is to vaccinated both men and women. 

Honestly, that might not even be enough to prevent initial seeding and a round of propagation given that the resident antigen presenting cell (APC) of the epidermis Langerhan Cells (LC) have delayed and often improper responses just by having contact with the HPV16 capsid (Woodham et al 2014). But it is enough to prevent the persistent infection that is required for cancer development.

Side note: Males can develop HPV-driven penile and anal cancers as well as act as vectors for spreading the virus without even knowing they are HPV positive (we just don't check or have a system in place to do an assessment). In the end, I believe it's equally important for both genders to be vaccinated for multiple reasons that hold different weights. My so tested positive for hpv a year ago. I've had a small persistent sore throat off and on the last 3 months. I need to get it checked..should I be very worried?  My mom wouldn't let the doctors give me the Guardasil vaccine growing up giving the reason "if you don't have sex you won't need it. " same here! my mom actually argued with the doctor about it, he kept saying that she wouldn't always know what i was up to and she got SO angry.

the only thing i've been up to is sharing water bottles with several strangers at concerts, which i just learned from another person in this thread puts me at risk for contracting HPV! thanks mom! Who knew. I guess we should get the shot!  Sharing water bottles can give you HSV. Pretty sure not HPV, at least not usually. While she is half-correct, there is still always the possibility that your husband may have had sex in his own past.  Or there is always the awful possibility of rape.

A friend of mine had sex with a number of men before she finally settled.  She made her (until he met her virgin) boyfriend get tested rather than herself.  I was pretty pissed off with her. Healthy 23 year old male. Not sexually active (never have been). Just in case should I ask my doc about getting this vaccine?  Yes, though you might have to insist a bit. My doc had no idea what the recommendation was for males. She had to get a chart and then I had to argue the interpretation of the chart with her.  This seems so dumb that this is a female skewed vaccination. 

NOONE wants HPV. Males should get vaccinated too.  In the very beginning it was only recommended for girls. The fact that it was changed to both sexes may have been a detail some clinicians missed.  She also tried to deny that it was only for females in the beginning when she asked why I hadn't gotten it sooner. Sigh. I might need a new doctor.  Get the vaccine. The cutoff is at 26. There's no reason not to. You don't know what lies ahead.  I apologize if it's in the article, but is the cutoff after or before your 26th birthday? In other words - I'm 26, can I get it?  I'm 26 and my doctor told me to get it, so I'm pretty sure it's after your 26th year (27+) that they make you pay out of pocket. Honesty, I don't know. I'm unsure as to why the cutoff is even 26. I've heard it's because you're most likely already exposed; which, if that's the case, I disagree.  I've also heard that testing simply hasn't concluded for age brackets above 26. I would ask your GP. Yes. I think you're a prime candidate. Read further upthread for more information (search for "men" and "males").  Yes, get it! Fun fact: Harald Zur Hausen, who was awarded the Nobel prize in Medicine for the discovery of this virus claims that if you could only vaccinate one gender, it should be the men! 

Read up!
http://www.scientificamerican.com/article/hpv-cancers-in-men-take-off Maybe a dumb question... but would the vaccine be useful even if you've had HPV in the past?  The vaccine only is useful against HPV stains you have not been exposed to. So if you had HPV-32 in the past then it would still be helpful against the other seven strains.  This is an important point. 

This is why they target the vaccine at young girls who haven't been exposed yet. ...AND boys. The FDA changed their recommendations recently to cover BOTH genders with the vaccine. Not a dumb question at all, considering most sexually active people have at least one strain of HPV  already. In the past?  I thought it stayed with you for life, but often just regressed into a dormant state? HPV researcher here.  This is an ongoing topic that is pretty debated in our field. We know that RPV (rabbit papillomavirus) can enter a dormant state and eventually reactivate, and there have been instanced of HPV-driven cancer development in people who "cleared" their infections while maintaining a celibate lifestyle (cohort were nuns and a few other self-reported celibate individuals, got to take the study with a raised eyebrow).

What is interesting is that HPV16 directly manipulats the maturation of Langerhan cells in the superior epithelium by just interacting with the uptake receptor (these are the guys responsible for alerting your immune system that something is up), and cause delayed and often improper stimulation of T and B lymphocytes (Woodham et al 2014 || Fahey et al 2009 || Da Silva et al 2014). So what some of the field is trying to figure out is if HPV induced tolerance to the virus itself through this mechanism (ie makes the immune system believe that capsid proteins or early gene products are normally occurring in the body and can be ignored). I don't think they know 100% either way. Some think your body completely clears the infection and others think it's just below detectable levels.  Copied from my post below.

 I think that the current vaccines target L1 &amp; or L2 which are structural components of the viral capsid (it's what the virus uses to dock with host cells.) Infected cells don't really express L1 &amp;L2. They do however express HPV E6 &amp; E7 proteins. These are two antigens that are completely foreign to humans. There are a number of therapeutic DNA vaccines that target these antigens that were in Phase I trials in 2010.

TLDR: Current vaccines target proteins that infected cells do not make. My layman interpretation.

http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC2752853/

https://clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/show/NCT01493154

Estimated Primary Completion Date: April 2015 (Final data collection date for primary outcome measure)

   As someone in the midst of battling cervical cancer this news brings tears to my eyes for a couple of reasons.

Get your kids vaccinated. There's a 35% chance this is going to kill me. I had throat cancer caused by HPV. It was....brutal. Get the vaccine, you don't want your kids to go through anything like this. I'm really sorry to hear that. I don't mean to pry and if you're not comfortable with telling the story I understand, but when did you realize that you had throat cancer and what was it like? I've seen a few people around this thread that have been looking for more insight into throat cancer caused by HPV I'm a bit annoyed it's not offered to over 26's. Being in my 30s I'm outside the target group but there's a chance I've not been exposed. 

Is it that if you've been exposed to one strain it won't help you for any others? I'd like it just for prevention of general warts and any forms I've not yet been exposed to.  Allegedly, you can still get the shots if you're past the age range, but you have to pay out of pocket?  this is correct. and it's not cheap. It's so stupid that the vaccine is targeted to girls. I'm a man but I sure as fuck don't want to be responsible for transmitting cervical cancer to one of my partners.  Please, if you're a parent, vaccinate your children - girls AND boys. If you're an adult and haven't been vaccinated, vaccinate yourself. I was just diagnosed with an extremely rare cancer (misdiagnosed with a pre-cancer a few weeks ago) caused by the HPV virus. I've heard the shots may be uncomfortable, but it's nothing compared to having cancer.  i'm sorry to hear that - hope you are doing okay! stay strong!! I'm impressed by the % vaccinated in Australia, 'MERICA is nowhere near them.  Now just to start encouraging males to take it.  Head and neck cancer is a serious killer as well as cervical cancer. I've known a few people who refused to vaccinate their daughters because it would "encourage them to have sex" There was a [science thread this month](http://www.reddit.com/r/science/comments/2vb6sz/the_hpv_vaccine_is_not_linked_to_riskier_sexual/) on this topic. 

*In the study, researchers followed 21,000 girls who received the HPV vaccine and compared them with 186,000 unvaccinated girls who were the same age and lived in the same part of the United States. After one year, they found that both groups of girls had higher rates of sexually transmitted diseasesbut the rate of increase in STIs between the two groups was nearly identical.* Explain like I'm 5 please. :) Regardless of if they got the vaccine or not, both groups had more STIs but the increase was at the same rate. If the vaccine encouraged them to have sex, you would've expected the vaccinated group to have increased more (as they had more sex, and the vaccine only protects against one form of STI). More STIs than what? He/she should have said increased STIs.  The point is that each group, vaccinated and non-vaccinated, had the same increased rate of STIs. More STI's than a year ago. As in both groups had more STI's after having a year of sex than before having a year of sex. Question: shouldn't the vaccinated group have a lower rate of increase in STI's than the unvaccinated group? Does this show that that the vaccinated group had a slightly higher amount of sex, or is the difference negligible because the vaccine only protects from one STI? I'm not familiar with [the study](http://pediatrics.aappublications.org/content/early/2012/10/10/peds.2012-1516.abstract), but it seems from the abstract that they focused on Chlamydia and teen pregnancy as the two markers of sexual activity outcomes.  [deleted] That's so dumb. Especially since the vaccine is given at a young enough age that the girls probably don't even have sex on their mind yet. My sister got hers when she was 9ish and my parents just explained that it helps prevent certain types of cancer.  It annoys me that this is such a prevalent opinion among adults in my country. "Birth control and STD protection encourages kids to have sex!" No. Teens are going to have sex anyway, regardless of the consequences. I remember my own mother took me off birth control when she discovered I was having sex (I told her I wanted it for my acne). I still had sex, just like any normal, horny teen who was in love with her high school sweetheart. People are just hurting their children by not providing both sexual education and protection for them. 
 Birth control encourages kids to have sex the same way that fire extinguishers encourage people to start fires and airbags encourage people to crash their cars This was my parents. As soon as I was able to get my medical stuff completely privatized from them I got it. They never knew even when I was still on my dad's insurance. It seems so silly to me that parents would do this because the vaccine is free for most people. Also you're actually quite likely to have HPV at some point, so even if you're only having two or three lifetime sexual partners it's more likely than not you'll get it!  One of my friends just posted a link to a girl who reacted badly to the vaccine. So now they don't want their girls to get I the vaccine.  It makes me sad.  give her a link to 500,000 girls who react badly to cervical cancer every year. No kidding. I'm facing a hysterectomy because of this. Though it's impossible to confirm, I believe I got this from my cheating first husband.   Also because even if men never develop cancer or warts, they are still disease vectors. It helps to contribute to herd immunity to have more people vaccinated, regardless of gender.  Actually men can develop pharyngeal cancer, oral cancer, penile cancer, or anus cancer from HPV. The vaccine is recommended for males right now. What should I ask my doctor for if I want this vaccination? 
I administer vaccines, and my place of business has the quadrivalent Gardasil. We don't carry the bivalent vaccine mentioned in the article (Cervarix) and this is the first I've heard of Gardasil-9 so I don't expect to see it in practice anytime soon to be honest. Sounds like it's still in trial, so I wouldn't expect to be able to get it soon. 

I do recommend that you be vaccinated against HPV asap though (*see my edit*). The vaccines that are available are better than being unvaccinated. As far as how, either call your doctor's office and set up an appointment or visit a local pharmacy or clinic. A pharmacy may have to order the vaccine if they offer it, but they almost always come next day. 

Edit: Wanted to add that your age and gender will play a role in whether the HPV vaccine is recommended for you. Typically recommended for females before they are sexually active, but it has been shown to decrease rate of cancer in other populations. Ask your physician or pharmacist, and they can tell you if the vaccine is one you should consider. I recommend it for most of my patients, but I don't feel comfortable giving blanket recommendations on the Internet.  Should you get the vaccine if you already have HPV? it will still protect you against other HPVs.  that is up to you and your doctor. if i get quad-gard, can i get the 9-gard later when it's available? or should i wait for the 9

**also does it hurt? how does it work? (i'm lame and scared)  Just ask for the HPV vaccine. Do be warned that it is recommend for (I believe) 12 through 26 year olds, so if you are older they may not give it to you. I think the rationale is that if you are over 26, you most likely have had contact with those HPV strains and thus the vaccine won't do anything. 

But have a chat with your doctor about it.  Insurance won't pay for the vaccine after 26.  A word to the wise...  
  
**Study "Funded by Merck"**    
  
I'm all about effective vaccines but not when they're promoted by corporate scientists.  Merck has created [fake peer reviewed journals] (http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Merck_%26_Co.#Sham_medical_journal), they hire doctors and release studies just like these which have caused thousands of deaths.  
  
"FDA analysts estimated that Vioxx caused between 88,000 and 139,000 heart attacks, 30 to 40 percent of which were probably fatal, in the five years the drug was on the market" [src] (http://www.pbs.org/newshour/bb/health-july-dec04-vioxx_11-18/)
  
Why wouldn't we want independent university/medical scientists weighing in on this stuff?  Think about it.
  
*Dr. Joura reports receiving fees for serving on an advisory board from Merck and Sanofi Pasteur MSD, lecture fees from Merck and Sanofi Pasteur MSD and from Roche, and grant support from Merck and GlaxoSmithKline; Dr. Giuliano, fees for serving on an advisory board and grant support through her institution from Merck; Dr. Iversen, grant support from GlaxoSmithKline and Merck; Dr. Bouchard, grant and travel support from Merck and GlaxoSmithKline; Dr. Mehlsen, lecture fees and grant support from Merck; Dr. Moreira, consulting fees from Merck; Dr. Ngan, travel support from Merck, Sharp, and Dohme; Dr. Cuzick, fees for serving on advisory boards from Abbott, Gen-Probe Hologic, and Becton Dickinson, lecture fees from GlaxoSmithKline, and grant support from Roche, Abbott, Gen-Probe Hologic, Becton Dickinson, and Qiagen; Dr. Garland, fees for board membership and travel support from Merck, consulting fees from Merck and Sanofi Pasteur, lecture fees from Merck, Sanofi Pasteur, and GlaxoSmithKline, and grant support from Merck, GlaxoSmithKline, and CSL Behring; Dr. Huh, fees for serving on an advisory board from Merck; and Dr. Kjaer, lecture fees and fees for serving on an expert committee from Sanofi Pasteur MSD, fees for the postlicensure monitoring of the effects of HPV vaccination from Merck, and grant support from the Aragon Foundation and Merck. Drs. Bautista, Chan, and Chen, Ms. Moeller, Mr. Ritter, Dr. Vuocolo, and Dr. Luxembourg report being employees of and holding stock or stock options in Merck; and Dr. Gesser reports being a former employee of and holding stock and stock options in Merck and being a current employee of and holding stock options in Sanofi Pasteur. No other potential conflict of interest relevant to this article was reported.*  
  
 So, between the article and the comments here I'm getting mixed messages.

As a nearly-twenty male, should this be something I should consider getting? How would I do so? [deleted] What about us who already have an older vaccine? Does anyone know the epitope targeted to generate the antibody response? So would this cure you or just prevent you from getting it? Vaccines are preventive. Apart from Rabies Vaccine which can be used after infection. that's coz Rabies infects you super slowly.  But once you're *sufficiently infected* with rabies, the vaccine will do nothing. Am I the only one that was bothered by the color scheme of that graph.  Seemed random and not on prism for scaling.
 So this is better than the Guardasil then?  As a guy I got that because I wouldn't be able to live with my self if I gave someone cervical cancer.  I think everyone eligible should get this vaccine. This will protect against the 4 strains in the original Gardasil shot plus protect against another 5 strains, so yes, it will be more effective. 

Source: I manufacture Gardasil for a living

 I received the old gardasil vaccine years ago and the first and second rounds of it were the most agonizing shots I've ever had. This vaccine is pretty well known for being particularly painful. I'm curious if this new one will be as bad? Of course, it's still worth the pain to get it and protect yourself, but I'd be interested in knowing. Has anyone here gotten the old vaccine and the new one? From what I could tell, if your nurse/administrator warmed up the old shots at all, it went way better. The pain came from the high viscosity at cooler temps. My second shot was awful, but my first and third were from the same nurse who warmed the shot a bit between her hands before administration and it wasn't painful at all. That makes sense. It was never warmed up, in my case, and it hurt like a bitch. I recall feeling it "go" through my arm as it was being injected. Thanks! This just makes me appreciate my pediatric doc/nurse so much more. Gardisil was a breeze for me. The new one is not on the market yet. Last I heard it succesfully went through all clinical trials and is now waiting to be approved for the market. The process was sped up with the quadrivalent so it might be the same this time as well. We'll see.  Except they are still missing the strains (HPV 35, 66 and 68) that mostly affect African-Americans. Does anyone know about the methodology used in the comparison? I'm struggling to see how they can show the efficacy of a vaccine versus another vaccine. Is the risk reduced because fewer people eventually got the virus? How do they know that those individuals would have been infected anyway? Is there a uniform amount of sexual activity involved?  They give the control group the old vaccine and the other group the new one and then monitor infection rates in both groups. If you use enough people the amount of sexual activity should average out, these things are all about statistics.  And for people who already got the old one? Can individuals with genital warts still benefit from this vaccine? It won't do anything about the warts, if that is what you are asking. It would still protect you from other strains you don't have yet though, although if you have warts you have a higher probability of being infected with those other strains also.  [deleted] Maybe, but is that worse than warts on your penis? Y'all better camp out for this! Is they going to pin you at McDonalds for free? Free happy meal with your HPV shot. Now that's sexy. If I already had the other one should I get the new one to protect against more? Can I even do that? I was wondering that too. I look forward to the day when we can all say "Hey remember when HPV was a problem?" 9 out of 100+ doesn't seem terribly great... but it is saying it gets all but 2 of the highest risk strains. Pretty neat. HPV is a crazy virus.
Also wtf happened to all the comments? almost 500 deleted?! 9 Strains down, 100 to go.... :-/ I've already had the Gardasil. I want to get this one, as well. 9 out of?

[edit] Google says 100.   9 out of 100... HPV strain 16,18, 6 and 11 account for 90% of genital warts and 70% of cervical cancer cases. I thought the strains that cause genital warts don't cause cancer (usually).  That's what the internet's been telling me.  

 16 &amp; 18 = cancer; 6 &amp; 11 = warts
 what percentage is that? Not all, or really most of those 100 are sexually-transmitted. Common warts are caused by HPV too obviously.

These vaccines cover the strains that cause a majority of cervical cancer and genital warts cases. (70% and 90% respectively.) So what if you're already infected with any of the HPV strains? I understand that the body typically clears HPV by itself within a couple of years, but if you're already infected should you still get the vaccine?  That's what I want to know. I want protection from any I haven't been exposed to. I haven't knowingly had any but even if not for cancer the wart prevention would be nice.  I just looked it up. Apparently you should still get it to protect against whichever strains you don't have. Your immune system eventually learns how to suppress what you already have in most cases.  I don't know this field at all.  I've seen articles on turning adult stem cells and I've seen articles on using stem cells for regeneration of everything from spinal nerve damage to brain and organ repair. 

Are we heading toward medicine/therapy where you visit the clinic one week to have cells taken and cultured to stem cells, and then visits where they're reintroduced to address the issue?

How far away is this? Does this approach have benefits over surgery / traditional medicinal approaches? (I feel it has enormous benefit).

To me, this seems like the way forward. But I'm an engineer Jim, not a doctor.  &gt;Are we heading toward medicine/therapy where you visit the clinic one week to have cells taken and cultured to stem cells, and then visits where they're reintroduced to address the issue?  

That's the ideal situation people are striving for. Patient derived stem cell therapies are still a ways off for a number of reasons:  
  
*  Patient derived stem cells require reprogramming of adult stem cells (iPSC). Currently the best way to do this is to introduce factors through using viral transmission (adenoviral etc). This obviously brings some major concerns with viral integration into the patients DNA. 
*  Embryonic stem cells are considered the gold standard and while iPSC are improving everyday, reprogramming and differentiation efficiencies are still not ideal.
*  Treatment requires a fair few cells depending on the injury. For example, a heart attack can cause a loss of 1 billion cells upwards (irrc). In vitro you can produce not nearly enough (~6 million per 96 well plate from my experience) and scale up is another major issue.

These are just some of the main issues. It should vary depending on the disease/injury but does show incredible promise. Some benefits are treatment of currently untreatable conditions, lack of rejection (with patient derived iPSC) and regenerative applications (skin grafts, bone repair etc). Keep in mind the other side of the stem cell coin apart from clinical use: the drug and disease modelling area of research which provides its own host benefits (testing on human tissue instead of animal models etc). All that being said, it is still quite a ways off from common medical use. You seem to know what you're talking about, so I'm gonna leave this here:

If we are still a good ways off, what is all this sports medicine I keep hearing about using stem cells?

When RGIII recovered from an MCL tear in a single off-season, they said it was stem cell treatment. Same thing for a few other athletes, who I can't think of right now.

What's the deal with that, and how does it differ from what is being discussed above? This is pure speculation, but I'd guess because those athletes are loaded and can get access to treatments most people can't -- in other words, above and beyond "common medical use." That's probably not stem cells but [platelet rich plasma](http://orthoinfo.aaos.org/topic.cfm?topic=A00648) injections.  Take your blood, centrifuge out all the insoluble elements but platelets and inject that into the injury site. It acts as a concentrated dose of growth factors to encourage healing rather than introducing new cells, but I think the evidence is conflicted on how effective it is. The growth factor comment by Lou2013 is spot on. Especially for an MCL tear, you're trying to repair a ligament which is connective tissue, not cells. So cells simply couldn't be used to repopulate or mend the tear. The best you can do is flood the area with growth factors and hope the body will heal itself faster.

Another "stem cell" treatment you might have heard about recently is Jadeveon Clowney, who will have microfracture knee surgery to repair some stuff. It involves stem cells, but through a brutal method. You fracture the bone to release stem cells which can (hopefully) heal and growth factor stuff, like mentioned above. Even that is hit or miss though. You're really just relying on the body to heal itself through growth factors, which is why the outcome is so random. It has maybe ruined as many athletes as it's helped.

In general though, I encourage people to be extremely skeptical of "stem cell" therapies. Most people are fumbling about with biotechnology that we don't really understand. Note: In all the discussed examples, even this study, the details suggests we don't really understand what we're doing. We have some tool, we apply the tool, and then good things happen. That's still really the bulk of our knowledge though. It sometimes works, we have little idea why, and cover that fact up. Because $$$. Refining these tools has been incredibly challenging and has caused us to confront really complicated questions of biology for which there are no clear answers. Researchers are promising the moon and the prominent ones are having money shoveled at them. There are billions and billions to be made. Conflicts of interest abound. High-profile researchers are getting caught red-handed pushing out fraudulent data. Which is exactly what you'd expect in this kind of environment. And for all the promises, the clinically-realized benefits have so far been few and far between.

That's not to say that stem cell research is a joke or wrong. Stem cell therapy will get there. Eventually. But it's going to take a lot more work and bumps in the road than a lot of charlatans would have you believe. Don't believe the hype. Not yet. Until the blind can see and the lame can walk, the field still has a lot of work to do. We see indications that it might be possible to someday do this to people, effectively and on a large scale, but there's a lot of development that still needs to go into it. I have no idea how long it will take. Could be 10 years or 100 years for this technology. It all boils down to having breakthroughs and insights that we don't possess right now. Those are the hardest to predict. I suspect it will be rolled out within the span of a human lifetime from now though. I keep hearing about treating heart attacks, but what is the actual process for treatment?

Do you just inject the stem cells near the heart and then they transform or how does it work? Is it still not a surgical procedure? I'm still learning about stem cells in my course so take this with a grain of salt, but what you do is to grow the stem cells in the lab in sheets, up to the required amount, then convert them to heart muscle cells by introducing chemical signals to the cells. When the cells are converted to heart muscle cells they are then reintroduced into the patient via a surgical process where the sheets are implanted back into the heart My biased answer would be yes, we are certainly heading that.  The posts in response to your question are pretty accurate so I won't nitpick.  You may be interested in knowing that there are several clinical trials currently underway using embryonic or induced pluripotent derived cells.  

These include

the world's first [treatment of macular degeneration using iPSCs in Japan](http://www.nature.com/news/next-generation-stem-cells-cleared-for-human-trial-1.15897)

a [similar trial using embryonic stem cells in the US](http://www.technologyreview.com/news/531791/stem-cells-seem-safe-in-treating-eye-disease/) which recently [reported initial positive results](http://download.thelancet.com/flatcontentassets/pdfs/S0140673614613763.pdf).

[Viacyte's approval to treat Type 1 diabetes with embryonic stem cell derived beta progenitors](http://www.biosciencetechnology.com/articles/2014/10/embryonic-stem-cells-trial-diabetes)

[Asterias's approval to treat spinal cord injury with embryonic stem cell derived oligodendrocyte progenitors](https://www.cirm.ca.gov/about-cirm/newsroom/press-releases/08262014/treatment-spinal-cord-injury-start-clinical-trial-funded)

these trials will pave the way for future trials and treatments.  As mentioned before, making stem cells into specific cell types is challenging and we are still not 100% there for many cell types.  But we do know how to make some cell types very efficiently, such as the retinal pigmented epithelium in your eye (which is why macular degeneration is the first disease to be treated with this strategy). As we learn more and continue to improve on differentiation strategies for multiple cell types, you will find more and more diseases being treated with regenerative medicine based stem cell therapies.  any other questions, just ask Just a note about this particular research.  Differentiating these cells into oligodendrocytes took between 70 and 100 days.  So, for this research, it won't be on a one week timescale. Using stem cells as a therapy in the way you describe here is unlikely to happen in the next few years, if ever.  Stem cells are enormously important to the advancement of medicine however, even if they are not directly used as a therapeutic device.  The reason I say this is that despite many years and many billions of dollars, stem cell technology has not produced the results it was expected to back in the early nineties.  This does not mean it is not worth pursuing, it means that many of the benefits we will get from this research will be slightly different than what we expected.  

When people think of stem cells, they typically imagine injecting these cells into an injured area of the body with limited regenerative potential.  The stem cells grow, and the injured tissue is healed.  This would be nice, and may be possible in some situations, but there are many logistical obstacles that first need to be overcome.  These obstacles include, but are not limited to cell sourcing, delivery, and maintenance.  I can go into more details about this if you are interested but I'm trying to make a larger point here.  My point is that in the interum between now and when this type of therapy is commonly available, we will likely benefit more from the knowledge of developmental and cell-signaling pathways described within these research papers than from actual clinical application.  Additionally, we may be able to use stem cells to treat damaged tissue even if the stem cells themselves are not localizing and growing in the targeted region.  This could be due to the ability of stem cells to signal surrounding cells to maintain an environment suitable for regeneration, thereby activating local dormant cells with growth potential.  
   
Let's say that there is a commonly available therapy using stem cells:  in this case there are many benefits of using your own cells.  Avoidance of rejection is the main benefit, but there would also be no need for embryonic stem cells and potential ethical disputes.  The (largely religious) outrage surrounding embryonic stem cells certainly set the field back many years due to financial and cell line restrictions.  But as much as I hate to admit it, something good has come out of our need to side-step ethical concerns.  

This brings me back to your original comment about having cells collected and cultured for use in your own body.  Limitations on embryonic cell lines prompted researchers to develop methods of reverting differentiated cells such as fibroblasts back into stem cells (induced pluripotent stem cells or iPSCs).  While these cells are indeed pluripotent, they do seem do retain some of the epigenetic markers of differentiated cells, but researchers have made progress in returning these cells to a nave state.  

Still, one of the biggest problems with using stem cells as therapy is that these cells, in addition to being pluripotent, are characterized by their capacity for indefinite self-renewal.  This means that even we can properly target viable stem cells for therapy, there is always the concern of tumorigenic potential.  In fact, the way we have tested cells for pluripotency even since the 1960s is by analyzing their potential to form tumors consisting of cells from each of the germ layers. 

Sorry for the long post.  I know it sounds mostly negative but that is because I did not have time to write all of the positive outcomes and advancements that have resulted from stem cell research.  The bottom line is this:  stem cells research has great potential and has already produced many valuable discoveries, but stem cell use in everyday treatments is still a ways off due to the issues described above.  But yes, this is the way forward.  I hope this was more than just a long rambling train of thoughts.



 Hypothetically, suppose the logistical issues are sorted out somehow. With repeated treatments, would risk of a tumor accumulate, or would it remain at a constant? This was a great primer on stem cell research! Someone has to be the negative guy right? I mean you wouldn't want everyone running toward the solution all at once. /sarcasm [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] The paper actually has a good [graphical abstract](http://i.imgur.com/D7OQciY.png) that gives a summary of their work.

I do have access to the paper, and will try to read through it and may post a quick summary.  However, a question I tend to see asked a lot that the news article did not cover is the source of the stem cells.  These are human embryonic stem cells that they started with, before they differentiated them into neural progenitor cells.

Alright, I finished going over the paper, and am posting a summary.  I expect I'll be including a decent number of their histology pictures, because whoever they had doing it took some beautiful pictures.  I'll try to have a short, simple explanation at the end of each of my longer paragraphs. 

Disclaimer: I am a first year grad student with a primary focus on biomaterials.  While I pretty much understood what they did (I think), it is quite possible I will make a mistake in what I say.  If you see any mistakes, let me know and I'll correct them.

So basically, this study focused on showing that they can treat the loss of oligodendrocytes in the brain due to radiation.  Oligodendrocytes are the cells that produce the myelin sheath around nerves, which is more or less equivalent to the rubber insulation around power lines.  The first thing they had to show was that they can actually replicate this loss in their animal model.  To do this, they took a batch of rats and subjected them to radiation.  They found a decrease of about ~25% of a protein that indicates myelin, and this decrease was present throughout the entire brain.  They took histology slides, seen [here](http://i.imgur.com/bunrCGd.png).  This slide shows the rat brain that had not been irradiated (Control) and the one that had been irradiated(XRT).  Dapi, the blue color, is a stain that stains all cell nuclei.  O4, the red color, indicates the presence of oligodendrocytes.  You can see how there is much less red in the irradiated rat brain.  Finally, they did behavioral testing and showed that the rats and showed that irradiated rats shopwed a decline in novel object prefrence and object location tasks (which show cognitive and memory properties), as well as a decrease in their time spent on a rotarod wheel (manual dexterity test).  In short, they showed that they can reproduce the cognitive decline and loss of oligodendrocytes in a rat model.


The next step was to cultivate their oligodendrocyte progenitor cells(OPCs).  OPCs are a bit of a pain to grow because they take a very long time to mature.  In this case, they started with human embryonic stem cells, and it took between 70 and 100 days of culturing before they had their OPCs. I'm going to basically skip the methods here, because if you really care about the details of how they cultivated the OPCs you are probably better qualified than I am to understand it. Suffice to say, they cultured OPCs using both their ESC line, and another ESC line plus 2 other induced pluripotent stem cell lines (derived from adults), and all of these produced OPCs.  This means that they were able to successfully and reliably grow OPCs.  They also confirmed they were able to induce the myelination of axons in vitro with their cells.


Next, they took 10 immunocompromised nude rats (because putting human derived cells into rats with immune systems is a problem), and irradiated them. 4 weeks after irradiation, they injected the oligodendrocytes into the corpus callosum of the test rats, with 1 million cells per rat.  There were also control groups that either did not receive irradiation, or received injections of an inert solution instead of oligodendrocytes.  They then performed behavioral testing on all of the rats, testing for novel object prefrence, object location tasks, and rotarod testing.  Both the grafted and the control irradiated rats showed poor performance initially. The results after 10 weeks can be seen [here](http://i.imgur.com/WObVuwc.png).  Basically, the grafted rats improved to basically normal levels for the cognition tasks.  They did not show any improvement for the dexterity task.   In short, they successfully implanted the oligodendrocytes in the rats and produced improvements in the behavioral tests for cognition and memory, but not in the test for motor control and coordination.

Next, they sacrificed the rats and examined their brains.  They found that there was significant evidence that the human derived oligodendrocytes survived and spread throughout the brain.  You can see some of that [here]( http://i.imgur.com/LIxktDU.png).  What this shows is the location of human derived cells (in red).  They used a marker for the human derived cells to identify them.  The brain slices show the location they found the cells in, and the histology slides show details of the corresponding area.  You can see substantial numbers of human derived cells (red) around the other cells present (all types of cells had nucleus stained blue).  They also performed tests on the human cells they found which confirmed that the majority of them were oligodendrocytes.  To show that the human oligodendrocytes were contributing to mylenation, they took samples of [nerves]( http://i.imgur.com/4PR5d5v.png).  The green is myelination, the red is human cells, and the blue is all cells.  You can see there is much more myelin in the graft rats versus the control, and you can see human derived cells are present throughout it.  In short, they showed that human oligodendrocytes spread through the brain and helped myelinate the nerves.


They also showed the proportion of neurons sheathed in myelin increased in the graft rats.  62% of the neurons were myelinated in the control group, 27% in the irradiated untreated group, and 53% in the graft group.  They did not see any change in the total number of axons between the groups (so it's not just that unmyelinated axons died off in the graft groups).  They performed electron microscopy on axons and their myelin sheaths, which can be seen [here]( http://i.imgur.com/cU9kMxA.png).  You can see how the grafted neurons show more myelination than the nongrafted ones, and look much more similar to the control.  The scale bar in the top row is 2 m, and in the bottom two is 500 nm.  

Now, the last part of the study.  In the first group of rats, they found no human cells in the cerebellum, which controls motor coordination. Thinking that this may be why they didn't see any improvment in motor skills, they repeated the entire experiment except they injected cells into either the cerebellum alone, or both the cerebellum and the corpus callosum.  The rats with cerebellum injections did not show cognitive improvements, but did show motor control improvements.  The rats with both injection sites showed improvements in both cognitive and motor control tests. There was evidence of remyleination in the cerebellum, using basically the same techniques as they used before.

**TL;DR** They took embryonic stem cells, differentiated them into oligodendrocytes, and injected them into radiation damaged rats.  The areas they were injected to showed improved myelination, and the rats performed better on tests.  More research is needed before this could be done in humans.



 This study, along with many, if not all, of the studies I have read from this field use nude/athymic animals. Based on your tag I assume you are quite familiar with current literature in this field. Are you aware of (or could you point me in the direction of) work looking to circumvent the need for immunosuppressed animals? I think replacement of cells after any type of injury to the nervous system will be required if the goal is complete recovery. Neuroprotection, rehab, and other recovery-enhancing techniques can only help so much. Basically, its because you can't put human derived stem cells into non-immunocompromised rats without rejection problems.  If they derived their stem cells from embryonic rats, they could use normal rats.  However, the general thought process is that data derived from nonhuman stem cells is less likely to be applicable, so they try to get as much as possible to be human derived, and then just deal with immunocompromised rats. If this does make it to human trials, immunosuppresents probably won't be needed as much, because it won't be foreign species derived cells.
 Depends on the injury itself though, no?  For example, the neuroinflammation that is the result of spinal cord injury can have a significant impact on the survival of transplanted stem cells.  Immunosuppression may or may not still be important in this aspect.   if it's human progenator cells, why don't the mouse immune system attack it? The rats used are specifically immunocompromised.  Basically, they don't have a functional immune system.  This means that foreign species cells can be used, but also makes keeping the rat alive is much more difficult, because minor infections could kill them.   [deleted] If there are any parts that you don't understand, I can try to clarify them for you. How severe is the brain damage from radiation treatment? My mum had full head radiation treatment for tumors, cancer. She was in her early 70s.

We were not told that this type of radiation treatment can bring on early onset of dementia in older people. Prior to the treatment, my ma was sharp as a tack and had no signs of dementia. Post radiation treatment saw a decline in her mental capacity.

Her tumors were secondary cancers from lung cancer. She was told that she would die within 12 months and all treatments would be to minimise her pain/symptoms. 

I'm torn about her dementia because it was sort of kind to her but cruel too. It was awful for us, her family to watch her mentally deteriorate on top of physically doing so from her cancer.. It became so bad that she didn't understand what was happening to her; she was like a child off in her own world most of the time, When she died, she was, mentally, a shadow of who she had been. 

 That sounds awful. I'm sorry for your loss. My wife had radiation for brain cancer in 2002.  She was a Controller at a construction company.  Sharp as a tack.  Within one year, she'd lost her job because she couldn't focus enough to actually get her work done.  She was in accounting for almost a decade, and now she can't even balance the checkbook.  Her focus is so bad now that she can't complete even simple tasks in any reasonable amount of time.  From start to finish, a shower is a 4-6 hour endeavor.  She's having a hard time even taking care of herself anymore.  Her decline has been pretty difficult to watch, knowing there's nothing I can do to help turn the tide.  I had a pretty average memory before chemo and radiation treatment. Now, sometimes even if I'm 100% focused on what someone is telling me, I will forget it about three seconds later. It doesn't happen all the time, but it happens often enough that it has gotten me in trouble. 

I'm currently looking for a new job and my biggest fear is that my boss or a customer will have to keep repeating something to me multiple times and think I'm incompetent because I won't remember what they asked me to do three seconds ago and then I get punished for it. It's a little hard to tell with certainty what ammount of decline is caused by the radiation. My wife has had radiation, two surgeries, chemo, she takes 3 types of anti-seizure drugs, and then there is the actual damaging effects of the cancer. Her short term memory is pretty shakey, spelling is too. She gets numbers and colors wrong 80% of the time. She can't really read out loud and she's starting to have troubles reading to herself. And overall her thinking is fuzzier. But she's still the same person for the stuff that matters. Short answer: we really don't know.

Most of the discussion is about the possibility of neurocognitive decline (memory loss, lethargy, language and executive functions etc.). The problem is that pretty much all the data we have on this subject from before around 2000 was restrospectve and observational studies without sufficient neurocognitive testing and no baseline examinations. We do know that many patients with metastasized cancer (and especially brain metastases) do have neurocognitive deficits in comparison to the healthy population regardless of their treatment, and the number of confounding factors (radiation, chemo, surgery, tumor progression, paraneoplastic syndromes, comorbidities and tumor-associated symptoms such as fatigue as well as psychological factors) makes it pretty much impossible to tell how much each of these factors contribute to neurocognitive decline.

Thankfully, this was recognized and prospective trials that include radiotherapy to the brain (whole brain radiotherapy and/or stereotactic radiotherapy / radiosurgery) now regularly include a neurocognitive assessment including baseline examination and regular follow-up. Interestingly enough, for patients with brain metastases those trials have so far shown that tumor progression is actually the most important factor contributing to neurocognitive decline, and for patients with manifest brain metastases (and a median survival time that is unfortunately still measured in months for most patients) radiation can actually preserve and sometimes improve neurocognitive function due to the response of metastases. However - and this is where it gets interesting - it is the patients who are lucky enough to live longer due to good responses and better local and systemic therapies who are at risk for development of neurocognitive decline, and there is data indicating that such a delayed decline after whole brain radiotherapy exists, although it seems to be mostly moderate and does not affect all patients. The best data regarding this comes from the prospective trials of prophylactic whole brain radiotherapy in lung cancer, since those patients do not have manifest brain metastases at baseline and live longer. To be noted is that most of those trials did not show a significant difference in neurocognitive function between the groups, but you can definitely see a trend in some and we still need a longer follow up and more precise assessments to reliably measure this effect.

I'm not trying to sweep this possibly severe side effect of radiotherapy (and especially whole brain radiotherapy) under the rug since I am a radiation oncologist myself, I just wanted to point out how complex this question is and that it is an area of active research where many questions are unanswered. I have seen patients suffering from neurocognitive deficits such as severe short term memory loss due to various reasons and it is devastating, therefore everything needs to be done to prevent and/or minimize such effects (we are currently participating in a trial that examines hippocampal avoidance in prophylactic whole brain radiotherapy for small cell lung cancer, which is hopefully able to reduce these risks further without jeopardizing treatment outcome). Quick question I always assumed the damage to the brain would be minimal since majority of cells are not actively replicating. Is this mostly damage to the gilal cells? Or issues with protein synthesis? Radiation can kill any cell. Radiation for brain tumors causes neuronal damage, which is largely irreversible, and glial damage, which this study focused on. You are correct that brain cells can tolerate a much larger radiation dose than other cells which divide more rapidly. Generally radiation necrosis is still a big problem during the treatment of brain tumors. The majority of adult neurons don't divide but some do.  The role and importance of "adult neurogenesis" isn't completely understood but it likely has roles in [learning and a few other things.](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Neurogenesis#Occurrence_in_adults) Man it seems like stem cells can do anything. That's amazing. Yeah, from the headlines I read it seems like stem cells are basically magic cure-alls. 

They're not, but their medical use seems so promising.  Consider that every cell in your body was derived from stem cells. So, ultimately, anything your body's cells can do *can* be done by stem cells, just with a bit of differentiation.  So is it like doing a factory reset for your cells? Pretty much. You have to biochemically get the cell to uninstall "skin," for example, and reset to "pluripotent," then initiate the setup for "brain" or "heart" or whatever you need. It's very tricky but our understanding of the microenvironment that dictates stem cell differentiation is getting better by the day.  The more I read about Stem cells the more optimistic I get for a future where previously irreversible damage, from previously incurable diseases, is reversible. This is quite interesting. Radiation therapy modalities have become quite sophisticated and I'll admit that from an observers point of view I'm more partial to them over chemo in cases in which radiation therapy is suitable. This could be very effective for dealing with hotspots that can form from a lack of quality assurance or make radiation therapy a possibility in situation where the risk of a hot spot more feasible. I had radiation on my sinus cavity and I'm about 14 years out. I can tell it's affecting my memory specifically.  
Where do I sign up? [deleted] Just brain cell damage from radiation, or brain cell damage from anything, like a stroke for example?

My grandpa recently had a major stroke, he alright usually, but lost most of his vision and sometimes just becomes crazy. Mumbling about random stuff, can't remember things, forgets where the bathroom or light switch is etc... It's hard to watch but for him I know it's gotta be agonizing, because most of the time he is clear minded and is aware that he had been crazy previously and he beats him self up about it.

I'm just hoping maybe there is a way to repair the damage that's been done, restoring his vision and making it possible for him to be independent again. [deleted] Could this also apply to people with traumatic brain injuries? [deleted] seems like stem cells cure all and we should be investing more in them I literally know nothing about this subject, but can stem cell treatment actually trigger cancer? Just curious since cancer has to do with irregular cell growth, I feel like putting stem cells in somebodys body could trigger that, but I could be completely wrong. [deleted] I'm curious to know if they continued followup of the rats after 10 weeks? I would guess not, as they were likely dissected. Prolific cancer seems to be one of the biggest hurdles/side effects of current experimental stem cell therapy. Is 10 weeks long enough to say the treatment did not cause cancer? The rats were sacrificed at 10 weeks.  I don't think they were overly concerned at looking for tumorgenicity in this study. [deleted] [deleted] I wish there was something the average person could do to promote this research.  [deleted] Because some people have issues with killing embryos to get stem cells. [deleted] [deleted] This is great news. When I was being treated in a therapy center, there was this girl who couldn't have been more than six years old who had brain damage from her treatment. She was nothing but sweet and she was a very polite child. It is so terrible to watch a child having to deal with this kind of thing. I can only imagine how hard it must've been for her. I don't even know if she's still with us, but I hope she's doing better.  I wonder what the impact of this procedure would be if tested on a healthy brain. . .  Curious: would stem cells prolong an astronauts stay in space?  If it can be used to reverse radiation damage, wouldn't that allow for longer trips?

I might ask this again in r/askscience since this post is hours old... Is there anything stems cells CAN'T fix? As someone diagnosed with MS 9 years ago, there are also a lot of new treatments now being implemented that essentially will cure my disease in many people. Can this treatment also heal brain damage caused by other means? Thank you for the article, I find this very interesting. I suffer from a rare radiation side effect known as radiation necrosis It left me with hemiparesis on my left side, I am currently unable t walk or use my left hand due to nerve damage. This research brings hope that I may one day use my limbs again, but knowing the current pace of stem cell research is probably still 10-20 years away Some years back an uncle went through chemo for a tumor in his head, the cancer is gone but he suffered brain damage turning him into another man, a stranger. I want my uncle back. I've got plenty of brain damage.  How far does this  research go? Could it only be for radiation or actual physical damage?  Malaria has placed such a strong selective pressure on humans the last 10,000 years that we have it to thank for many problematic genetic mutations like sickle cell. Eliminating or finding a vaccine for malaria would be a human achievement like no other. 

http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Genetic_resistance_to_malaria My brother died of a rare strand of Malaria at the age of 22. Within 2 days of feeling symptoms, his limbs were purple and he died shortly after. He had the best care but this strain was unlike anything seen before. This was 9 years ago. Fuck malaria. I am sorry for your loss. What country was this? Haiti but he was in Canada when he started feeling sick about a week later. Wouldnt it be easier to wipe out mosquitoes? I mean do they keep any population going?  Fish, birds, bigger bugs, spiders, rodents, bats, reptiles, certain groups of humans, etc. 

This could of course be replaced with flies - but they do not breed or grow as fast as mosquitos, as their larvae state is slightly longer; which makes all she difference. Secondly, food supply for mosquitoes is more varied and available. Mosquitoes also familiarize animals to blood diseases in certain areas where an early immunity is vital for survival.  &gt;  Mosquitoes also familiarize animals to blood diseases in certain areas where an early immunity is vital for survival.

I believe this is critical. The lack of exposure to harmful pieces of pathogens may cause a bubble/burst effect in populations where no one is exposed, and then suddenly many are exposed with less robust immune systems. We can already see early negative effects of limiting exposure now (not just with mosquitos) with the rise of immune sensitivities (allergies) and autoimmune disorders. Imagine if we could genetically engineer mosquitoes to vaccinate. I wonder if this is even possible.  Or to genetically engineer mosquitoes that don't/can't harbor the malaria parasite. They just released modified bugs in Brazil. Hope is that over a few generations/years they will replace disease carrying ones. Interesting. Do you have a link? [This](http://www.nature.com/news/brazil-tests-gm-mosquitoes-to-fight-dengue-1.10426) was what I can find, and it says the mosquitoes are designed to interbreed with the wild population and cause the offspring to die before maturity. So it will still cause all the ecological damage that eliminating mosquitoes in other ways would do. I found this interesting.
Ecology: A world without mosquitoes
http://www.nature.com/news/2010/100721/full/466432a.html TIL mosquitoes can form swarms thick enough to asphyxiate caribou. That's an interesting read, thanks for sharing.  I wondered what this garbage was doing in Nature. Then I remembered Nature has branched out into *Discover* and *New Scientist* territory. I don't mind scifi/sci fact musings but I've never felt they belong in Nature and I have to say this would be irresponsible even for a pop sci mag to publish. This makes so many claims about real science that I really feel like it should be scientifically based or not written at all. Let's get down to it:

&gt;Taken all together, then, mosquitoes would be missed in the Arctic  but is the same true elsewhere? 

&gt;And the loss of these or other fish could have major effects up and down the food chain.

Contradicting her own thesis. But hey, she's nice enough to admit it.

&gt;"If you're expending energy," says medical entomologist Janet McAllister of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention in Fort Collins, Colorado, "are you going to eat the 22-ounce filet-mignon moth or the 6-ounce hamburger mosquito?"

&gt;"Lots of organisms process detritus. Mosquitoes aren't the only ones involved or the most important," says Juliano. "If you pop one rivet out of an airplane's wing, it's unlikely that the plane will cease to fly."

Ridiculous. Not serious arguments. Go back to Bio 1 and pay attention to how diet works.

&gt;In this case, eliminating mosquitoes might affect plant growth.

&gt;Without mosquitoes, thousands of plant species would lose a group of pollinators.

Contradictory. Again.

&gt;Yet McAllister says that their pollination isn't crucial for crops on which humans depend. "If there was a benefit to having them around, we would have found a way to exploit them," she says. "We haven't wanted anything from mosquitoes except for them to go away."

Ridiculous.

&gt;Given the huge humanitarian and economic consequences of mosquito-spread disease, few scientists would suggest that the costs of an increased human population would outweigh the benefits of a healthier one. 

What am I reading? The author's gone from playing both sides incoherently *to playing both sides in the same sentence* and I'm pretty sure she didn't mean to.

&gt;"If we eradicated them tomorrow, the ecosystems where they are active will hiccup and then get on with life. Something better or worse would take over."

Wait... did they read this quote before using it?

My conclusion: The only thing "interesting" about this article is learning that Nature publishes garbage as news. Since it's a "News Feature" I guess there's more room for editorializing.

&gt;Janet Fang is an intern in Nature's Washington DC office.

...aaaaand now I feel a bad for her. Nature had no business putting her out in front of the world like that. None of this is the author's fault - it's an opinion piece by an intern. If she's a *high school* intern then she did a great job, and if college then she needed to work on it a bit more.

But Nature chose to print save-the-world superhero fantasy as a legitimate Eco review. I'm fine with blaming them. I heard an interview by the company that designs these mosquitos. It turns out that (in Florida at least) the mosquitos that carry harbor particularly harmful diseases are a subspecies that's specifically targeted, constitutes something like 2% the local population, and *isn't indigenous*! If ever there was a case for this sort of effort, it seems like this would be a prime candidate. 

**[Warning: Citation needed, and the quotes came from a company representative.]** Correct, because people STILL think we can eliminate an entire species and not see any negative effects from that.  Some people still think we can control and predict infinitely complex systems.  It's the height of hubris. We eliminate entire species absolutely all the time, up to 140,000 of them *every single year*. To the extent that the current epoch, the Holocene, or the epoch dominated by humans, is also commonly regarded as the sixth major extinction event, the [Holocene extinction](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Holocene_extinction), which is primarily human driven. We have been changing the world and extincting species for tens of thousands of years, it's not just the last few hundred, although the process has certainly accelerated. 

There is substantial scientific consensus that eliminating malarial mosquitos species (note that not all species of mosquito can spread malaria to humans) or indeed all of them (if we don't have the tech to discriminate) would be an overwhelming net benefit. They have caused more harm to humanity than absolutely anything else and it is thought that the overall ecological impact would be relatively minor, certainly relative to the lives saved.

Bear in mind that just about every developed country has already extincted these mosquitos, many with DDT in the mid-20th century. DDT has other, extremely major issues but its use was still a net benefit despite killing off a lot more than the mozzies and it is still manufactured and used in countries such as India.

Can you imagine a situation in which large swathes of southern Europe and the southern United States were uninhabitable due to malaria? If hundreds of thousands of people were dying of it every year in the United States? Would you have any other reaction in such a situation other than massacre the fuckers? I can assure you no developed country that has eliminated malaria had any qualms about the possible ecological impact of getting rid of the poor mosquitos. &gt;It's the height of hubris.

Or ignorance. This sounds like heartwarming bullcrap, to me.  Of course we can eliminate species and have extremely high understandings of the consequences.  We do it all the time. Yeah dude, we do this DAILY. Species come and go and we don't even realize it.
Yes there would be changes to the ecosystem, but no more drastic than the changes already being imposed upon the environment by a million other factors caused by humans. Literrally [an hour after your post](http://www.nytimes.com/2015/02/20/us/battle-rises-in-florida-keys-over-fighting-mosquitoes-with-mosquitoes.html). Amazing.

Edit: oh, did not realize dna-modified mosquitoes were actually a thing for some time (are they?) If you value your sanity, don't read the comments on many of these articles.  Which benefits them as well I believe. what happened to those mosquitoes that bill gates released? I belive that he was helping fund research that used the bacterial endosymbiont Wolbachia as a means to inhibit the parasite's use of mosquito as a vector. [Here]( http://journals.plos.org/plospathogens/article?id=10.1371/journal.ppat.1004182) is a relatively recent paper on the status and pros/cons of that work that you might find interesting. Except for the people who can't get vaccines for medical reasons. Well, it has been shown both theoretically and in the small, small scale experiments. I just don't think its viable at the moment. I do Biomedical Engineering and I love reading around my field and this has been considered as an effective way to delivering vaccines.  But then we'd all get autism :( Well they're doing something similar in Florida. there is an ongoing disease called chikgunya that people in east Asia were getting from a particular type of mosquitos. it has somehow started infecting people in carribean islands and now Florida which was inevitable. 
"Researchers patented a method of breeding Aedes aegypti with fragments of proteins from the herpes simplex virus and E. coli bacteria as well as genes from coral and cabbage. The researchers then remove the female mosquitoes since the females mosquitos are the only ones that bite humans and then release the males. The males are then released into the wild and breed with wild females whose offspring will die due to the genetic manipulation. Oxitec is aiming to release these mosquitos into the wild this spring in Key Haven, FL."

[source](http://acsh.org/2015/01/genetically-engineered-mosquitoes-added-fight-dengue-chikungunya/) Well this has ethical implications with the concept of informed consent, a practice that I fully support.  Do you support the fluoridation of public water supplies? You're the reason I fear for my own health as someone with an autoimmune disorder. Wait, what? Informed consent doesn't translate to anti-vaccination. Informed consent simply means that a patient has to know about what the drug does, what its contraindications and possible reactions are, and which populations are at risk.

Informed consent is extremely important in all seriousness. I'd think people have a right to know what their treatments would do, and that they'd like to know they're being treated. 

Think about it - stealthily treating everyone with no regard for them has some very serious fundamental issues. I'd rather educate and persuade, letting herd immunity account for the rest than inoculating them without them knowing.

And before you ask, this is coming from a biology background, a pro-public health and pro-vaccination proponent. Informed consent isn't anti-vaccination, so don't go barking at the wrong tree. Actually I advocate big time for vaccines. The user suggested forced vaccinations which makes me fear the power people are willing to grant the state over the false dichotomy you put forward.

Also you should fear for your own health if you think randomly dosing people via mosquito is a good idea. Maybe start with educating yourself why we give specific doses of vaccines at specific times. I'm fairly certain that Fitzy mistook your support of informed consent with support for the aforementioned mosquito-based vaccination. if you have an auto immune then you really do need herd immunity. It of course depends on what auto immune of course as there is a vast range  Been there done that...http://www.geek.com/science/biotech-company-to-release-millions-of-genetically-modified-mosquitoes-in-florida-1614727/ Has nothing to do with getting mosquitoes to vaccinate. I can only imagine the outcry from the anti-science crowd. It is not anti-science to be cautious with dangerous outcomes. I would be more concerned about the ethics and wisdom of automated vaccination than the inane opinions of the anti-vax crowd.  and complications with dosage, reaction to naturally acquired pathogens along with the vaccine etc. I was under the impression that there are multiple species of mosquitos and only a few would be eradicated to attempt to stop malaria. 

There is no need to remove all mosquitos from the ecosystem.  Are you sure? I mean, I don't really have to worry about malaria but I do hate mosquitos.  The malarial parasite is only carried by female mosquitoes of the Anopheles genus IIRC That is correct &amp; the CDC was created to DDT the fuck out of them which is why malaria is no longer a problem in the US. Yes, and DDT kills a hell of a lot more than specific species of mosquitos and can harm humans also. But it was still a huge net benefit for the developed countries of the world which are almost universally malaria free. I suspect if large swathes of the southern United States were uninhabitable and hundreds of thousands of Americans were dying annually of malaria people might be a little less sensitive about the possible impact on the overall ecosystem.

In other words this has been done already, in the most crude way possible, with massive collateral ecosystem and human population damage, and it was still a net benefit. [deleted] [deleted] There are over 3,500 described species of mosquito, and only ~40 species which transmit malaria in humans. If you focus the extermination to just these specific species, most regions have other species of mosquito that will fill the habitat left by the extinct species. The population wound not be significantly effected.

I think it was on the CBC podcast "Quirks and Quarks" that I heard a researcher discussing a published study, and saying that the species of mosquito which carry malaria in the studied region only accounted for an average of 4% of the diet of bats, fish, and amphibians living in the area. They're elimination was predicted to have little impact on the ecosystem beyond the elimination of the human malaria parasite. We can get on that once we figure out how to make pesticide that doesn't kill bees. Their a cool program where they breed mosquitos to not produce viable male offspring. So the females keep mating but they can't produce any new males. Very quickly the mosquito population collapses. And this would leave the other species of mosquito intact.  Couldn't we just politely ask the mosquitoes to please stop eating malaria? 
 From what I've read on the subject, if we got rid of all mosquitoes, it would be but a blip in the food chain: http://www.nature.com/news/2010/100721/full/466432a.html &gt; Fish, birds, bigger bugs, spiders, rodents, bats, reptiles, certain groups of humans, etc.

Actually, there are over 3500 species of mosquitoes and only a few hundred bite humans and less carry disease; around 50. The scientific consensus is that eliminating the most dangerous species will not have a negative environmental impact. The [IAEA](https://www.iaea.org/newscenter/news/iaea-and-mosquito-borne-diseases) has already started funding facilities for sterilizing male mosquitoes.  Not all mosquito species transmit malaria. We could easily wipe out those species through genetic methods already developed and replace them with non transmitting species, if necessary.  Actually, an episode of radio lab, and their visiting expert, basically concluded that we don't need the little bastards. 

[Here's the link.](http://www.radiolab.org/story/kill-em-all/) 
If you've never heard of Radiolab, I highly recommend giving it a listen.  THIS COMMENT NEEDS MORE VISIBILITY!!! The radiolab episode googolplexy linked specifically addresses this question. I believe it's titled "kill em all" iirc No it doesn't.  It's a podcast, who cares what they conclude?  There has also been one study based on a few isolated places where they eradicated mosquitoes.  There is no way near enough evidence to say we should just kill all mosquitoes. It's a podcast, true. But they're not the one who did the research. 

The one study they did showed no negative outcomes. That's enough to conclude that we should do more studies.

Then again. You're a reddit comment, who cares what you conclude? I'm gonna go out on a limb and assume you didn't bother to listen to the podcast, since you seem to be so quick to jump to conclusions yourself. I never said they had concrete evidence that mosquitoes aren't serving any purpose at all in the ecosystem. I said the podcast talked about the question "what would happen if we did?"  Well the answer they found after they actually reduced the mosquito population was "not much". They didn't "kill em all" or find some crazy new age way to bring about a mosquito holocaust, they reduced the population of a species in a particular area and found it to be more beneficial than detrimental.  &gt; No it doesn't. It's a podcast, who cares what they conclude?

Oh god so many fallacies It's painful.


They never conclude anything at all and even if they did the phrase "It's a podcast" is just stupid, because the fact that it's a podcast doesn't mean anything, you could have the top doctors in the world making a podcast and you could have two drunk guys making a podcast, the fact that it's a podcast means nothing.

They bring the actual experts in and let them share their opinions.


It's obvious you didn't listen to it, so the fact that you dismiss it on the basis of it being a podcast is fallacious. We are already trying this by releasing genetically modified mosquitoes who are a) immune to Malaria and b) more fertile than the other kind.


Edit: Sorry folks. It appears we haven't actually figured "more fertile" out yet. Instead the current idea is to skew the male to female ratio towards males to have the species die off in six generations or so [Source](http://www.theguardian.com/environment/2014/jun/10/gm-mosquitos-malaria-genetic-modification) Wouldn't them being more fertile be a bad thing? Sure, it would help with the initial replacing of natural mosquitoes, but what about once they've already taken over as *the* mosquitoes? Won't we have too many? I looked it up again. Apparently the "more fertile/fitter to survive" idea was just that, an idea they hadn't finished yet.


The newest plan seems to be to make mosquitos that produce more males than females, leading to a mass die off in six generations or so.


Sorry for the wrong info. I used to work for Nothing But Nets.  A campaign whose goal is to "raise awareness" about malaria &amp; send bednets to africa.  A relatively common question that was asked is the one you just asked &amp; i was instructed to hand the individual asking this question a business card for one of the PR ppl who was full time with the campaign.  Why couldnt they let me answer?  Because the CDC was created in the 1950's to eradicate malaria using DDT &amp; they sprayed that shit everywhere in the United States and it worked.  Ppl dont donate to the campaign when they find out the campaign doesnt support the use of DDT in africa.  They give a lot of b.s. Reasons why they dont... But ppl get pretty pissed when they find this out because in there mind if it worked for the US it will work for africa.  Another nice fact about these BS charitible organization.  Ted turner donated a billion dollars to start nothing but nets/united nations foundation.  They use that money to pay salaries/sit in a bank/raise awareness/marketing etc.  they've only raised 30-40 mil with that budget so far.  The other common question - why are you asking people to donate &amp; join the campaign?  Why dont you use the $ ted turner gave you &amp; buy a billion $'s worth of bednets?  Guess what i was told to do when asked that - yep give them business card for PR Do your part, buy a bat house and or do everything you can get to bats to live in your area.  Those little bastards eat like a 1000 a night per bat.   It would seem the best way to thin out the buggers is to encourage the things that eat them.  

But...to wipe out a very, very, very fast breeding insect that infests every biome on the planet that has even a month of thaw...good luck.   IMO it would be far better to make us human immune.   

I mean any pesticide you make that kills mosquitoes will also kill many of the beneficial insects in any biome, and then with a life cycle that measures in weeks, mosquitos are likely to evolve resistance to any pesticide in very short order.   Their larva are a common food source, but the general concensus is meh. This sounds like the best plan.  I hate mosquitos.  They ruin summer. [deleted] You wouldn't have to exterminate all the mosquitoes to eliminate the threat to humans. There are many species of mosquitoes that do not feed on humans. From my perspective the next big breakthrough in mosquito control will come via genetic engineering, which will only affect specific targeted species.  CDC was started to use DDT to eradicate malaria in the US &amp; it worked They might keep populations of things like lizards and frogs and shit going. Not to mention that the mass deployment of pesticides always has problems. These problems include cost, spectrum (will it ONLY kill the mosquitoes?), persistence (what chemicals will be left in the environment by these pesticides and how long will it take to degrade? What damage will be done to the environment in the process?), and, maybe most importantly, genetic resistance. There's no way around the fact that there is no conceivable way to kill *every single mosquito* that could possibly be carrying the virus, even in the perspectively small area where they are living right now. Inevitably, not only will some just not get sprayed, but the ones that *do get sprayed and survive* will be the ones that reproduce (natural selection), which, if I'm understanding correctly, is the **whole goddamn reason we're in this problem now**. 

It's not an easy problem, and, at least to an average guy like me, it has no easy solution.

Source: AP Environmental Science

EDIT: grammar Wouldn't a sound strategy just be to release a very (very) large quantity of lab sterilized males and let them out compete the naturally occurring population of viable males.  Wouldn't this greatly bring down the population w/out bringing nasty pesticides into the picture? Yes. [This technique is currently being used in Brazil](http://www.iflscience.com/health-and-medicine/gm-mosquitoes-set-be-released-brazil-combat-dengue-0) to reduce Dengue Fever cases, and has been proposed for use with *Anopholes* to reduce Malaria as well.  There's not necessarily a need for pesticides. It's possible to target breeding grounds for example, but still all of them have the possibility to cause very bad consequences. Not an easy issue. Just to add on why it's not easy to target breeding spots.


Mosquitoes love to hide in dark and damp places. It seems easy to just target breeding grounds but many of these are very tricky to find. I've found larvae in plastic bags, bottle caps, deep drains and tree holes.


You need a lot of manpower to find these breeding spots and apply treatment. It might be *easier,* but the implications of it are very far-reaching. It would be less ecologically damaging to eliminate/vaccinate against a parasitic infection than it would be to wipe out an entire set of organisms that are used as the parasite's transmission vector. The reason why we couldn't wipe out an entire insect population, even if we account for all **known** problems, is that we still couldn't be sure of what the entire effect of the insect genocide will cause. There is just no possible way to account for every scenario or know HOW mosquitoes fully effect the ecosystems they are in. 


Take for instance the w[olf population in the Yellowstone national park](http://youtu.be/ysa5OBhXz-Q). While the deer population reduction was a logical effect, the deer behavior, other behaviors of other animals, and geographical changes were not.

The same thing could be said about any species or ecological changes.
 Unfortunately due to inconsistent use of DDT in parts of Africa over the last few decades, the mosquitoes have started to develop a resistance. Aren't any great and cheap alternatives.  I'm surprised that nobody has pointed out that some species of mosquitoes also serve as pollinators for various plant species. Since the main diet of most mosquitoes is nectar (only females of certain species drink blood, and only to gain the nutrients needed to make eggs), some plants rely on them for pollination. While a lot of these plants do have multiple pollinators (some grasses, for instance, which are pollinated by both mosquitoes and flies), there are some species that rely primarily or solely on mosquitoes, including several species of orchid. unidan would know the answer to this.  he would know it so much that it hurts. http://www.nature.com/news/2010/100721/full/466432a.html Pretty sure whatever you could come up with to eliminate all mosquitoes would eliminate some other things as well.   &gt;Eliminating or finding a vaccine for malaria would be a human achievement like no other.

Well, ya know, except for the whole eliminating smallpox thing. That didn't exactly go away on its own ya know. It took a massive undertaking to spread the vaccine to every little corner of the globe. When it comes to death tolls, malaria's a heavy hitter, but outside the bubonic plague, smallpox has no rival. It practically sterilized the North American continent of human life before the white man started pushing west. Malaria has killed many, many more people than smallpox.  Because we killed smallpox first! Humanity, woo! I'm half black,  half white. I'm resistant to malaria but carry the cystic fibrosis gene. I guess you can't win all of the time.  That CF gene might actually make you resistant to cholera too! You're like a super-human! is resistance dependent on your race? For the first time in my life I feel like having Thalassaemia might be beneficial.  Good point, and thalassemia major and minor in the Mediterranean areas, too. India and Myanmar have a natural border in the form of the Naga hills, and I think they're the only thing probably keeping this from coming into India. Still a bit concerning though.

Source: I'm currently living in Nagaland.

**Edit:** Just thought I would clarify. The Naga hills are a natural barrier NOW given the [spread.](http://news.bbcimg.co.uk/media/images/81122000/png/_81122209_myanmarmsagaing4640215.png) Come the summer months it might be a different story. The mountains are tougher for the mosquitoes than the plains, but by no means impassible especially with the help of the monsoon. And if it should pass south to the sea it could get through via Bangladesh. Dude, if you hear anything in Nagaland, please create a thread in /r/india as well. Lots of folks can benefit who don't frequent this sub. Will do, though I've not heard anything in the local press so far. Hows the insurgency there?? Complicated  Can anyone that knows a bit about this describe a little bit why vaccine for malaria has eluded us?? Is there something special about malaria that makes it difficult or is the discovery process for diseases just very complicated in general? There are a few issues that make developing a malaria vaccine difficult. The first is that "malaria" is used to describe parasitic infections caused by four species of Plasmodium (falciparum, vivax, malariae, and ovale). You can add in P. knowlesi as an emerging malarial disease, although right now it is very geographically restricted. Each species is relatively distinct and has a different evolutionary history, so developing a single vaccine is relatively complicated since it would be almost impossible to get the broad antigenic coverage necessary to protect against all species.

One way around this problem is to focus on a malaria vaccine for the most deadly species, P. falciparum (the one mentioned in this article and the one responsible for most malaria deaths worldwide). Even limiting it to this species, there are other problems, the most serious of which is that P. falciparum has a complex life cycle (mosquito-&gt;human blood-&gt;human liver-&gt;human blood-&gt;mosquito; this is simplified) and that each life cycle has different vaccine "targets" so that a vaccine that works well against the first blood stage may not work against the second blood stage. Additionally, since malaria replicates intracellularly (in liver cells and red blood cells), while it is living in those cells it is "protected" from our immune system by our own body. The need to target specific stages means that one can on the first blood stage (preventing infection/disease) or the second blood stage (preventing disease/transmission). 

Even after accounting for all these problems, there is a good degree of variability in antigenic expression between P. falciparum populations (e.g. Kenya is likely to have different antigens expressed than Cambodia), so finding a) a universal target b)a universal target with a conserved antigenic sequence and c) a conserved sequence which can reduce disease when targeted is an extremely challenging task.

On top of all this are more standard concerns about vaccine dosing, length of protection, and worry that vaccination can shift the transmission dynamics such that older children are affected more strongly, thereby increasing the risk of cerebral malaria and potentially lowering the "repeat dosing" that is thought to provide some protection in adults in highly endemic areas.

Please keep in mind that this is a (very) simple explanation of a complex topic. It's not my field of expertise so I have not included some critical details.

If you're interested in more detail, here is a good summary: http://journals.plos.org/plosmedicine/article?id=10.1371/journal.pmed.1000398 &gt; there are other problems, the most serious of which is that P. falciparum has a complex life cycle (mosquito-&gt;human blood-&gt;human liver-&gt;human blood-&gt;mosquito; this is simplified)

One other point based on the complexity of the life cycle: parasites are really difficult to deal with in the lab, since you usually can't just grow them without their hosts. It's one of the reasons that things like parasitic nematodes (hookworms, pinworms, etc.) are difficult to study. Out of curiosity, how are parasites studied, usually? Do researchers use tissue cultures? Parasitology admirer here Depends on the parasites. For malaria, P. falciparum is maintained in a culture that is composed of a medium containing necessary nutrients and donated red blood cells. One of the biggest costs in maintaining a malaria laboratory is keeping a fresh blood supply for continuous culture. 

Not all parasites are so easily cultured. P. vivax, which also infects humans and causes a less severe form of malaria, only grows in special "young" red blood cells known as reticulocytes, which are impossible to maintain in culture (thus far). 

Other parasites, such as Leishmania, have certain forms that can grow outside of host cells, but since the applicability of any results from these studies is limited since it might not be fully representative of what actually goes on during infection.

It's hard to accurately study parasites. P. falciparum is one of the easier ones. I work with leishmania and trypanosomes. Tryps are pretty easy; they will grow in relatively simple media and lab strains with grow and grow and grow as long as you keep splitting the culture. Leish are more difficult. Their life cycle is 4 times longer (ish) than tryps and as the other guy said, nobody to my knowledge has figured out how to grow the life cycle stage parasites that are inside an infected mammal unless you allow them to infect macrophages in a culture. Leish have been known to grow for many passages as well but in my personal experience, they lose a considerable amount of infectivity after you've split the culture 6 or 7 times. Both parasites can be easily inoculated into an animal though, which allows more reliable results obviously. We do both.  Forgive my ignorance, but I thought vaccines were just for viruses, no?  If its a parasite, wouldn't the term be a "cure"? Or an antibiotic of some sort?   My possibly erroneous understanding was you can vaccinate against viruses, need antibiotics for bacteria, and for a parasite, I'm not sure. Partially true. We can theoretically vaccinate against any pathogen (this includes viruses, bacteria, fungi, and parasites). All a vaccine is is a "piece" of the pathogen that your body recognizes and develops a response to. This piece is most commonly a protein (since our body forms strong responses to them) but can also be a carbohydrate (like for the pneumonia vaccine).

"Vaccination" is derived from "vaccinia", which is in turn derived from the latin word for cow. This derivation makes sense as the first vaccine was derived from cowpox (also called vaccinia) which prevented against smallpox (also called variola). The idea behind vaccination is that you expose someone to pieces of the pathogen before they are exposed, so that the body has a memory of that pathogen and can kill it before it causes you harm. In this sense vaccines prevent pathogens from causing disease since they target the pathogen with antibodies once it enters your body.

Cures work by killing pathogens at the molecular level, usually by interfering with the cell wall or metabolic processes. They are independent of the immune system.

That's the simplest explanation I can give, let me know if you're still confused and I'll try to explain in more depth. I'm no expert, but one issue is that malaria is not a disease where exposure conveys immunity. For something like smallpox, exposure to the virus is enough for the acquired immune system to kick in and fend off future attacks (that is, if the first virus does not kill you). However, with malaria, you can get the parasite time and time again without becoming immune. A malaria vaccine will, among other things, have to provide immunity on exposure even though the immune system does not naturally do this.

Disclaimer: not an expert  Yeah. Malaria is a protazoan which makes some many convential methods of fighting diseases designed to combat viruses and bacteria hard to use. 

My totally non-expert opinion is we need engineer a virus that kills the parasite kind like a phage. As many have said it is a complicated system. It is a eukaryotic pathogen and we have NEVER made a vaccine to anything in that domain. They have tried to make vaccines, the most recent was only 50% effective I think. One thing to consider is we really do not have all that many vaccines out there. It is a long and hard process to make on even for a disease that does not mutate so quickly and does not share such a high similarity to our own cells. Personally, I feel that a cheap drug designed to a vital malarial protein would be the best route to go,  but I am biased on that subject since my PhD work involves studying what we feel is a very potent protein target. First, malaria is a parasite, not a virus. However the ELI5 version is the same for HIV and the cold. It mutates so fast, vaccines can't keep up. Malaria is also really good at hiding from the immune system, so antibodies floating around in your blood don't 'see' the parasite. [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] Ive got Malaria five times during my life. I would be scared if those drug resistant bugs reach India. IS there any reason why we wouldn't be able to do that thing where they used GMO mosquitoes that were sterile and had them mate with the population to produce nothing? It works but it is no panacea; it's just one more alternative to pesticides, swamp draining, and other time-honored mosquito control techniques. There's no known way to get them all.  They do that already, check npr.org for the story.  With this drug resistant strain? I'm aware they do it elsewhere Fear of GMOs. But perhaps fear of something actually dangerous like mosquitoes will win out.  Articles like this bother me: there should be a basic litmus, even if it's at the bottom of the article, that gives details to the area of infection, the number of subjects, the rate of infection, the incubation period, etc..
I'm not saying dont pay attention to this, I'm saying let's pay better informed attention to this
 http://www.thelancet.com/journals/laninf/article/PIIS1473-3099(15)70032-0/abstract

Here's the paper the article is based on.
"Overall, 371 (39%) of 940 samples carried a K13-propeller [artemisinin-resistance associated] mutation. We recorded 26 different mutations, including nine mutations not described previously in southeast Asia. In seven (70%) of the ten administrative regions of Myanmar, the combined K13-mutation prevalence was more than 20%. Geospatial mapping showed that the overall prevalence of K13 mutations exceeded 10% in much of the east and north of the country. In Homalin, Sagaing Region, 25 km from the Indian border, 21 (47%) of 45 parasite samples carried K13-propeller mutations." Well I guess winter lasting until late April here isn't so bad.. To the bunkers!!!!! Now seriously, what are the odds of this getting to Europe? I begin undergraduate research this spring on new malaria drugs. According to my research professor... It doesn't look promising [deleted] 