Can you explain what your life in Moscow is like? Moscow is the biggest city in Europe. A lot of people forget that. Shy of Tokyo, it's the biggest city I've ever lived in. I'd rather be home, but it's a lot like any other major city. Is winter harsh? Do you ever want to go out, but wake up and find yourself suddenly snowed in? Canada, Sweden and North Dakota have pretty harsh winters, too. As does Boston. This kills the joke. Damn, Edward Snowden is cooler than I thought.

EDIT: [Did anyone notice what he titled his proof pic on imgur?](http://i.imgur.com/ycwFTdU.png) Andddd now we know he visits /r/gonewild  What if he's submitted to /r/gonewild? \*NSA scrambles* The guy took on the biggest intelligence agencies in the world. I think it's safe to say he's pretty cool already. Crazy to think that the CIA is going to be pouring over this entire thread and trying to decode all of the stupid jokes contained herein. Hi NSA! Do you like dank memes? It must be the weather.  At the current rate of meme dropping, you will be officially indistinguishable from the average Redditor within 3.5 memes. Edward Snowdank. In Soviet Russia, joke kills you. /r/suchislifeinmoscow Last comrade in Motherland sat alone in room. There was knock on door. Was KGB. KGB is forever. For Edward Snowden:

Russian journalist Andrei Soldatov has [described your daily life](http://www.nytimes.com/2013/11/01/world/europe/snowden-russia.html?pagewanted=all) as circumscribed by Russian state security services, which he said control the circumstances of your life there. Is this accurate? What are your interactions with Russian state security like? With Russian government representatives generally? Good question, thanks for asking.

The answer is "of course not." You'll notice in all of these articles, the assertions ultimately come down to speculation and suspicion. None of them claim to have any actual proof, they're just so damned sure I'm a russian spy that it must be true.

And I get that. I really do. I mean come on - I used to teach "cyber counterintelligence" (their term) at DIA.

But when you look at in aggregate, what sense does that make? If I were a russian spy, why go to Hong Kong? It's would have been an unacceptable risk. And further - why give any information to journalists at all, for that matter, much less so much and of such importance? Any intelligence value it would have to the russians would be immediately compromised.

If I were a spy for the russians, why the hell was I trapped in any airport for a month? I would have gotten a parade and a medal instead.

The reality is I spent so long in that damn airport because I wouldn't play ball and nobody knew what to do with me. I refused to cooperate with Russian intelligence in any way (see my testimony to EU Parliament on this one if you're interested), and that hasn't changed.

At this point, I think the reason I get away with it is because of my public profile. What can they really do to me? If I show up with broken fingers, everybody will know what happened.  Don't you fear that at some point you will be used as leverage in a negotiation? eg; "if you drop the sanctions we give you Snowden" It is very realistic that in the realpolitik of great powers, this kind of thing could happen. I don't like to think that it would happen, but it certainly could. 

At the same time, I'm so incredibly blessed to have had an opportunity to give so much back to the people and internet that I love. I acted in accordance with my conscience and in so doing have enjoyed far more luck than any one person can ask for. If that luck should run out sooner rather than later, on balance I will still - and always - be satisfied.

 If it does happen, and you're forced into the U.S. government's hands, know that I (and millions of other Americans) are behind you. Ed, I can't even explain to you how much of a hero you have become to me. I've never said that to anyone.
 &gt;At this point, I think the reason I get away with it is because of my public profile. What can they really do to me? If I show up with broken fingers, everybody will know what happened.

Would you go as far as to say that you coming forward and making yourself completely public was the best thing for you? It certainly seems like a security net, as you sort of put it yourself. Laura, are you still detained for extra screening when you fly in the US?
 The detentions have thankfully stopped, at least for now. Starting in 2006, after I came back from making a film about Iraq's first election, I was stopped and detained at the US border over 40 times, often times for hours. After I went public with my experiences (Glenn [broke the story](http://www.salon.com/2012/04/08/u_s_filmmaker_repeatedly_detained_at_border/) in 2012), the harassment stopped. Unfortunately there are countless others who aren't so lucky.  Isn't this, in of itself, a perfect example of how mass transparency of information can fight against the very ills of secretiveness? By effectively displaying to the world what's been happening to you - the "powers that be" are intimidated to stop? What can be done to prevent this from happening to others (unjustly), in your opinion? Be famous.  To Greenwald &amp; Poitras: What was the most alarming revelation(s) you discovered throughout this process, and is there more to come?

To Snowden: What validation do we have that Putin is being honest about NOT spying in Russia? For me personally, the most shocking revelation was the overall one that the explicit goal of the NSA and its allies is captured by the slogan "collect it all" - meaning they want to convert the internet into a place of limitless, mass surveillance, which is another way of saying they literally want to eliminate privacy in the digital age:

http://www.theguardian.com/commentisfree/2013/jul/15/crux-nsa-collect-it-all

There is definitely more significant reporting to come. Our colleagues at the Intercept - Jeremy Scahill and Josh Begley - just last week reported one of the most significant stories yet on the NSA and GCHQ's 's hacking practices:

https://firstlook.org/theintercept/2015/02/19/great-sim-heist/ To tag on to the Putin question: There's not, and that's part of the problem world-wide. We can't just reform the laws in one country, wipe our hands, and call it a day. We have to ensure that our rights aren't just being protected by letters on a sheet of paper somewhere, or those protections will evaporate the minute our communications get routed across a border. The only way to ensure the human rights of citizens around the world are being respected in the digital realm is to enforce them through systems and standards rather than policies and procedures. I saw that you used GPG to encrypt the document archives and the movie stated that Laura and Glenn are using Tails to analyse documents. How do you collaborate? E.g. share a document, tag it together, share notes etc? Using tools like the overview project (AP, Knight Foundation) seems impossible when wanting to protect documents properly.

P.S. Congrats and thank you for your amazing work. It would have been impossible for us to work on the NSA stories and make Citizenfour without many encryption tools that allowed us to communicate more securely. In fact, in the credits we thank [several free software projects](http://www.wired.com/2014/10/laura-poitras-crypto-tools-made-snowden-film-possible/) for making it all possible. I can't really get into our specific security process, but on the The Intercept's security experts, Micah Lee, wrote a great post about helping Glenn and I when we first got in contact with Snowden: https://firstlook.org/theintercept/2014/10/28/smuggling-snowden-secrets/

It's definitely important that we support these tools so the creators can make them easier to use. They are incredibly underfunded for how important they are. You can donate to Tails, Tor and a few other projects here: https://freedom.press/bundle/encryption-tools-journalists Did you hear the story about the GPG author recently?

http://www.zdnet.com/article/gnupg-author-set-to-bolster-operation-after-donation-drive/
 I know for sure that Glenn Greenwald and Micah Lee know about that story, as I saw a discussion about it on Twitter. There was talk of adding GPG to the next encryption tools for journalists donation bundle here https://freedom.press/bundle/encryption-tools-journalists How do you feel about the "nothing to hide" argument? I did a TED talk specifically to refute that inane argument, here:

http://www.ted.com/talks/glenn_greenwald_why_privacy_matters?language=en I saw this talk not so long ago, I always struggled to explain why we should bother about all this, and you gave me perfect tools to do so. Thank you. To Glenn, whatever happened to the "list of U.S. citizens that the N.S.A spied on?" You announced plans to release it, then nothing - can you tell us where that list went and why it was never published?

Source: http://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2014/may/26/glenn-greenwald-publish-list-us-citizens-nsa-spied/

EDIT: Spelling

Double Edit: Gold?! Thank you, kind stranger! They're trying to release it, but 7 billion names takes a while to upload.  "NSA, who have you spied on?"


"Yes"     function hasNSAWiretap(citizen) {
      return true;
    } Alternatively, if the NSA had written the function

    function hasNSAWiretap(citizen) {
      logIPaddress(citizen);
      infiltrateMachine(citizen);
      monitorBrowsingHistory(citizen);
      fuck(citizen);
      return false;
    } Always important to implement a `fuck()` function in the global context Just make sure it's *private* or *protected*. No one likes getting fucked in *public*. this is javascript, the nsa can fuck you whether you think it is private or not Dear all,

how can we make sure that people still want to leak important information when everyone who does so puts the rest of their lives at stake? Whistleblower protection laws, a strong defense of the right for someone charged with political crimes to make any defense they want (currently in the US, someone charged with revealing classified information is entirely prohibited from arguing before the jury that the programs were unlawful, immoral, or otherwise wrongful), and support for the development of technically and legally protected means of communications between sources and journalists.

The sad truth is that societies that demand whistleblowers be martyrs often find themselves without either, and always when it matters the most. After Watergate and the Pentagon Papers, why aren't whistleblower protection laws yet implemented? Or is the whistleblower protection act something else? There is and it is called the [Whistleblower Protection Act of 1989](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Whistleblower_Protection_Act) updated in 2012. Unfortunately, it does not apply to the intelligence community. More unfortunately, the protections conferred by the act are determined in a case by case basis by the [United States Merit Systems Protection Board](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/United_States_Merit_Systems_Protection_Board) which pretty much always sides with the Government and not with the whistleblower. 

The sad part is that because laws exist with names which sound like they should be doing what we expect, it is hard to get people excited about amending these laws to do what they should.  &gt; currently in the US, someone charged with revealing classified information is entirely prohibited from arguing before the jury that the programs were unlawful, immoral, or otherwise wrongful

I've heard so many people say "if Snowden didn't do anything wrong then why doesn't he come home?" That's good to know. Laura Poitras,Glenn Greenwald, Edward Snowden, and now **Peter Sunde** all in one thread. Wow. Mr. Snowden, if you had a chance to do things over again, would you do anything differently? If so, what? I would have come forward sooner. I talked to [Daniel Ellsberg](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Daniel_Ellsberg) about this at length, who has explained why [more eloquently](http://www.popularresistance.org/wp-content/uploads/2014/07/Ellsberg-billboards-e1404923198872.jpg) than I can.

Had I come forward a little sooner, these programs would have been a little less entrenched, and those abusing them would have felt a little less familiar with and accustomed to the exercise of those powers. This is something we see in almost every sector of government, not just in the national security space, but it's very important:

Once you grant the government some new power or authority, it becomes exponentially more difficult to roll it back. Regardless of how little value a program or power has been shown to have (such as the Section 215 dragnet interception of call records in the United States, which the government's own investigation found never stopped a single imminent terrorist attack despite a decade of operation), once it's a sunk cost, once dollars and reputations have been invested in it, it's hard to peel that back.

Don't let it happen in your country.


 &gt; Don't let it happen in your country.


God dammit - Canadian  Yup, thinking about Bill C-51 as I read that. It's like Stephen Harper is living ten years in the past, watching the Bush era and saying "Wow! That's brilliant! EVERYONE will LOVE that if we do it in Canada!" It's not just Harper.  Trudeau is supporting the bill and says he'll change it a bit to add oversight once he's elected, but oversight has proven useless at stopping these violations everywhere else and it's doubtful that he would do it anyways.

The Liberal Party has always been just as bad and probably worse on privacy issues.   A friendly reminder that the NDP is taking a hard stance (so far) against the bill. Honestly I was pretty surprised that the Liberals aren't, and if I had been considering voting for them this time around anyway this would have instantly changed that. Remember C-51 and who supported it next election. Goddamn sell-out Trudeau.  Here's a few other things to keep in mind about Trudeau:

- Trudeau wants to give $500M in taxpayer money to "job creators" (read: the wealthy class who own businesses) [but economists think his plan won't create many \(if any\) jobs.](http://www.680news.com/2014/09/26/baloney-meter-how-credible-are-the-plans-of-parties-to-tweak-ei-premiums/)

- [He's pledged to protect all previous tax cuts for businesses and the rich.](http://www.cbc.ca/news/politics/justin-trudeau-defends-andrew-leslie-vows-not-to-raise-taxes-1.2547076)  This is money that used to be spent on our country and its people, now it just helps the rich make even more money.  It's these tax cuts that have contributed to growing inequality.  Why is Trudeau promising outright to keep these tax cuts but making only vague references to inequality?

- [He's opposed to legalized and regulated prostitution.](http://www.cbc.ca/news/politics/justin-trudeau-wary-of-proposal-to-regulate-tax-prostitution-1.2500357)  He's called it "a form of violence against women" and was quite enthusiastic about the Nordic model, which penalizes buying and legalizes selling, just like Harper supports.  The Liberals 

- [Liberals, including Trudeau, all support FIPA and the TPP](http://www.canadianprogressiveworld.com/2013/04/23/betrayal-trudeau-and-the-liberals-voted-for-harpers-sellout-fipa/)

- [Liberals prepared to back to Tory anti-terror bill](https://www.google.ca/url?sa=t&amp;rct=j&amp;q=&amp;esrc=s&amp;source=web&amp;cd=3&amp;cad=rja&amp;uact=8&amp;ved=0CCYQFjAC&amp;url=http%3A%2F%2Fwww.theglobeandmail.com%2Fnews%2Fpolitics%2Fliberals-prepared-to-back-tories-anti-terrorism-bill%2Farticle22666230%2F&amp;ei=1xnNVMGWHoX4yQSF_ICABQ&amp;usg=AFQjCNEP2QtiDP8jd1AoTIGL1wwBkOG21A&amp;sig2=zg4R23x0MHnDxoZJhC7YgQ&amp;bvm=bv.85076809,d.aWw) Oh, but he'll add oversight... to the existing oversight that has done nothing to protect our privacy, just like the 10+ layers of oversight the NSA have that have worked so well for them.

- [Justin Trudeau backs away from federal carbon pricing program.  Now says carbon pricing should be left to provinces.](https://www.google.ca/url?sa=t&amp;rct=j&amp;q=&amp;esrc=s&amp;source=web&amp;cd=6&amp;cad=rja&amp;uact=8&amp;ved=0CC4QFjAF&amp;url=http%3A%2F%2Fwww.cbc.ca%2Fnews%2Fpolitics%2Fjustin-trudeau-says-carbon-pricing-should-be-left-to-provinces-1.2927889&amp;ei=mRrNVOD3BoSuyQS324CwCA&amp;usg=AFQjCNHKGd7brl1B6xcXPmngDl87tsVAmA&amp;sig2=zxlYekYkUB03ga91Rn4iuQ&amp;bvm=bv.85076809,d.aWw)  This is pretty much the system we already have.  Let provinces decide for themselves?  How about some minimum federal standards?  You know, some actual leadership?

- [Trudeau lobbies on behalf of businesses in his riding to exempt them from having to properly qualify for TFWs when everyone already knows the standards are too lax as it is](http://www.theglobeandmail.com/news/politics/tories-release-letter-by-trudeau-asking-for-temporary-foreign-workers-for-his-riding/article11339272/)

- [Trudeau supported the sale of Nexen to China and even wrote an article explaining why it's great for the wealthy business class if we sell our resource companies to foreign governments](https://www.google.ca/url?sa=t&amp;rct=j&amp;q=&amp;esrc=s&amp;source=web&amp;cd=1&amp;cad=rja&amp;uact=8&amp;ved=0CDUQFjAA&amp;url=http%3A%2F%2Fo.canada.com%2Fnews%2Fnational%2Fjustin-trudeau-why-the-cnooc-nexen-deal-is-good-for-canada&amp;ei=CRzNVLXIG8mqyASF-4HQAw&amp;usg=AFQjCNHjW0-_lG5ep22Ha7yjamrQxSBcrQ&amp;sig2=dZjDyxyhCa5QMUnRgP-Cpw&amp;bvm=bv.85076809,d.aWw)

- [Trudeau opposes proportional representation.](http://www.cbc.ca/m/touch/news/story/1.1862550)

Believe it or not, Harper hasn't radically changed much.  His policies are continuations of Chretien/Martin policies which themselves are continuations of Mulroney policies and Trudeau is supporting all the same ones.  Trudeau will keep us moving in the same direction as every other PM of the last 30 years.

Isn't it time for an actual change, not the same old change we're promised by both the CPC and Liberals that never seems to come? So what you're saying is we need to vote for Zombie Layton?
 Dammittt - Australian FTFY: God Damn it- Five Eyes Nations Considering all that's happened, that's the most admirable answer possible. A follow-up, if you don't mind: if Americans could start changing the political acceptance of intrusive spying by government agencies, what would it be? I personally am not sure if any candidate up for election next year would truly care about the issue beyond campaign promises, so I'm a bit afraid of not being able to use one's vote to enact change. 

I greatly appreciate this, Mr. Snowden. I work in the federal government in Washington DC, though I am in the DoD, and I know many of us personally are concerned.  What do you feel can be done to help other activists who have been imprisoned (such as Barrett Brown, Chelsea Manning, and to a lesser extent Jeremy Hammond), and how do you feel about the government using laws like the CFAA to silence these types of activists while simultaneously trying to extend its reach by citing recent hackings against US corporations (e.g. Sony)? great questions. 

Everyone who may not know, this is [Aaron Swartz' brother](http://www.reddit.com/r/IAmA/comments/295wuz/we_are_brian_knappenberger_director_of_the/).  Laura, in your recent interview with David Carr, you expressed your commitment as an artist to convey the emotions you feel as a target of state surveillance. Do you also consider yourself a journalist? If so, do you think there is a tension between artistic expression and journalistic integrity? 

I also would like to thank you for a wonderful film, Glenn for your commitment to no-bullshit and adversarial journalism, and Ed for having the courage to do what was right. We are all in debt to you.  Thanks for the kind words. I definitely consider myself a
journalist, as well as an artist and a filmmaker. In my mind, it's not a
question about whether I am one or the other. Documentary films needs to do more than journalism - they need to communicate something that is more universal. I'm out of time, everybody. Thank you so much for the interest, the support, and most of all, the great questions. I really enjoyed the opportunity to engage with reddit again -- it really has been too long.

 This was a quality AMA. Come back soon! [deleted] *Tips balance of power.  Hey everyone - thanks for the questions, I really enjoyed it. Sorry, but I have to run. Hope to be back soon! What's the best way to make NSA spying an issue in the 2016 Presidential Election? It seems like while it was a big deal in 2013, ISIS and other events have put it on the back burner for now in the media and general public. What are your ideas for how to bring it back to the forefront?  The key tactic DC uses to make uncomfortable issues disappear is bipartisan consensus. When the leadership of both parties join together - as they so often do, despite the myths to the contrary - those issues disappear from mainstream public debate.

The most interesting political fact about the NSA controversy, to me, was how the divisions didn't break down at all on partisan lines. Huge amount of the support for our reporting came from the left, but a huge amount came from the right. When the first bill to ban the NSA domestic metadata program was introduced, it was tellingly sponsored by one of the most conservative Tea Party members (Justin Amash) and one of the most liberal (John Conyers).

The problem is that the leadership of both parties, as usual, are in full agreement: they love NSA mass surveillance. So that has blocked it from receiving more debate. That NSA program was ultimately saved by the unholy trinity of Obama, Nancy Pelosi and John Bohener, who worked together to defeat the Amash/Conyers bill.

The division over this issue (like so many other big ones, such as crony capitalism that owns the country) is much more "insider v. outsider" than "Dem v. GOP". But until there are leaders of one of the two parties willing to dissent on this issue, it will be hard to make it a big political issue.

That's why the Dem efforts to hand Hillary Clinton the nomination without contest are so depressing. She's the ultimate guardian of bipartisan status quo corruption, and no debate will happen if she's the nominee against some standard Romney/Bush-type GOP candidate. Some genuine dissenting force is crucial. Reminds me of the speech you gave at the Boston ACLU, back in 2011.

For those interested it is a fantastic listen:  http://aclum.org/greenwald This is a good question, and there are some good traditional answers here. Organizing is important. Activism is important. 

At the same time, we should remember that governments don't often reform themselves. One of the arguments in a book I read recently (Bruce Schneier, "Data and Goliath"), is that perfect enforcement of the law sounds like a good thing, but that may not always be the case. The end of crime sounds pretty compelling, right, so how can that be?

Well, when we look back on history, the progress of Western civilization and human rights is actually founded on the violation of law.  America was of course born out of a violent revolution that was an outrageous treason against the crown and established order of the day. History shows that the righting of historical wrongs is often born from acts of unrepentant criminality. Slavery. The protection of persecuted Jews. 

But even on less extremist topics, we can find similar examples. How about the prohibition of alcohol? Gay marriage? Marijuana? 

Where would we be today if the government, enjoying powers of perfect surveillance and enforcement, had -- entirely within the law -- rounded up, imprisoned, and shamed all of these lawbreakers?

Ultimately, if people lose their willingness to recognize that there are times in our history when legality becomes distinct from morality, we aren't just ceding control of our rights to government, but our agency in determing thour futures.

How does this relate to politics? Well, I suspect that governments today are more concerned with the loss of their ability to control and regulate the behavior of their citizens than they are with their citizens' discontent. 

How do we make that work for us? We can devise means, through the application and sophistication of science, to remind governments that if they will not be responsible stewards of our rights, we the people will implement systems that provide for a means of not just enforcing our rights, but *removing from governments the ability to interfere with those rights*.

You can see the beginnings of this dynamic today in the statements of government officials complaining about the adoption of encryption by major technology providers. The idea here isn't to fling ourselves into anarchy and do away with government, but to remind the government that there must always be a balance of power between the governing and the governed, and that as the progress of science increasingly empowers communities and individuals, there will be more and more areas of our lives where -- if government insists on behaving poorly and with a callous disregard for the citizen -- we can find ways to reduce or remove their powers on a new -- and permanent -- basis. 

Our rights are not granted by governments. They are inherent to our nature. But it's entirely the opposite for governments: their privileges are precisely equal to only those which we suffer them to enjoy.

We haven't had to think about that much in the last few decades because quality of life has been increasing across almost all measures in a significant way, and that has led to a comfortable complacency. But here and there throughout history, we'll occasionally come across these periods where governments think more about what they "can" do rather than what they "should" do, and what is lawful will become increasingly distinct from what is moral. 

In such times, we'd do well to remember that at the end of the day, the law doesn't defend us; we defend the law. And when it becomes contrary to our morals, we have both the right and the responsibility to rebalance it toward just ends. Martin Luther King said it best in his [**Letter from Birmingham County Jail**](http://www.africa.upenn.edu/Articles_Gen/Letter_Birmingham.html)

"How can you advocate breaking some laws and obeying others?" The answer lies in the fact that there are two types of laws: just and unjust. I would be the first to advocate obeying just laws. One has not only a legal but a moral responsibility to obey just laws. Conversely, one has a moral responsibility to disobey unjust laws. I would agree with St. Augustine that "an unjust law is no law at all." 
 I can imagine some student in the future having to read Thoreaus 'Civil Disobedience', Kings 'Letter from a Birmingham Jail' and this Snowden response from 4 hours ago. It will be recommended reading for my Debate course. My graduating seniors will be given a  copy of Walden and Civil Disobedience as a graduation gift.   Snowden's 'Impromptu Response on a Pre-Brainosphere Primitive Network'. &gt; Ultimately, if people lose their willingness to recognize that there are times in our history when legality becomes distinct from morality, we aren't just ceding control of our rights to government, but our futures.

Wow [deleted] Edward Snowden just called for civil disobedience against the US government whilst also arguing for the legalization of marijuana during an AMA. This is quite possibly the most reddit thing ever.

 its-happening.gif I have a feeling this isn't your only account.  his other account /u/NSA_whistleblower got suspended /r/retiredreddit

Okay folks. It was a nice ride but I think we've reached peak Reddit. It can only go downhill from here. Unlike oil, cat pictures are a renewable resource. Peak reddit is a myth. Are you telling me edward snowden posts dank memes? Except,  it's not just a reddit thing.  Virtually anyone who actually follows current and past politics will realize civil disobedience against the government is the way to get things done quick...   Agree... it's just tough to get people motivated when they aren't seeing the impact right in front of their faces. With most successful movements that I can think of, the boot was felt on millions of necks to a point it interfered with their lives. If he's not more careful he might make it onto a list. These replies are so detailed, well-written, elaborate, and well-articulated! Thank you, Mr. Snowden, for what you do and for providing us the opportunity at this AMA! It is amazing and appalling to read this and think, *this* is Edward Snowden. *This* is the man that the government has driven out of the country and tormented. For what? Talking about such trifles as "rights," and "privacy." The gall of the peasantry!

You have done nothing but speak simple truths. And the people in "power" of the most "powerful" nation in the world are terrified of you. The weak, sniveling, obsolete old men who clog our halls are revealed for what they are. So they heap the revilement on you. This answer gave me chills. So clear, focused and powerful. Snowden 2016 Laura: Will you release more footage of the meetings held with Snowden in Hong Kong? Yes, I do plan to release more footage from Hong Kong shoot. On the first day we met Ed, Glenn conducted a long interview (4-5 hours) that is extraordinary. I also conducted a separate interview with Ed re: technical questions. The time constraints of a feature film made it impossible to include everything. I will release more.  

I also filmed incredible footage with Julian Assange/WikiLeaks that we realized in the edit room was a separate film. Oh man, I would absolutely love to see the whole, raw footage you shot. It was very interesting to see how things unfolded before the world knew a whole lot about who had leaked things.

Is this separate film with Assange in production currently? Would LOVE to see a film on WikiLeaks/Assange.  /u/PresidentObama do you have anything you want to ask? How did you guys feel about about Neil Patrick Harris' "for some treason" joke last night? Wow the questions really blew up on this one. Let me start digging in...

To be honest, I laughed at NPH. I don't think it was meant as a political statement, but even if it was, that's not so bad. My perspective is if you're not willing to be called a few names to help out your country, you don't care enough.

["If this be treason, then let us make the most of it."](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Patrick_Henry)

Note: reddit is rate-limiting my replies to one per ten minutes ("you are doing that too much! try again in 9 minutes..."), guys. Sorry for the slow responses.
 &gt; Note: reddit is rate-limiting my replies to one per ten minutes ("you are doing that too much! try again in 9 minutes..."), guys. Sorry for the slow responses.

I know how to fix this!

1. Find a picture of a bunch of snow completely covering a house
2. Post picture to /r/funny
3. make the caption, "Guess I'm not the only one who's "Snowed in!"
4. ???
5. Post as much as you want https://imgflip.com/i/i0s7i Here's a little insight into how digital age media works:

I learned of NPH's joke after I left the stage (he said it as we were walking off). I was going to tweet something about it and decided it was too petty and inconsequential even to tweet about - just some lame word-play Oscar joke from a guy who had just been running around onstage in his underwear moments before. So I forgot about it. My reaction was similar to Ed's, though I did think the joke was lame.

A couple hours later at a post-Oscar event, a BuzzFeed reporter saw me and asked me a bunch of questions about the film and the NSA reporting, one of which was about that "treason" joke. I laughed, said it was just a petty pun and I didn't want to make a big deal out of it, but then said I thought it was stupid and irresponsible to stand in front of a billion people and accuse someone of "treason" who hasn't even been charged with it, let alone convicted of it.

Knowing that would be the click-worthy comment, BuzzFeed highlighted that in a headline, making it seem like I had been on the warpath, enraged about this, convening a press conference to denounce this outrage. In fact, I was laughing about it the whole time when I said it, as the reporter noted. But all that gets washed away, and now I'm going to hear comments all day about how I'm a humorless scold who can't take a good joke, who gets furious about everything, etc. etc.

Nobody did anything wrong here, including BuzzFeed. But it's just a small anecdote illustrating how the imperatives of internet age media and need-for-click headlines can distort pretty much everything they touch. &gt; Nobody did anything wrong here, including BuzzFeed.

That's the political correct response, I'll just say it, click-bait journalism is a cancer and it must be killed. That won't happen without fundamentally altering human psychology. The only thing separating clickbait from yellow journalism is technology and a screen - it's been around for as long as mass media has HEADLINE: Redditor somewhatfunnyguy calls Buzzfeed "a cancer", says it "must be killed." reddit, fix this quick. &gt; reddit is rate-limiting my replies to one per ten minutes ("you are doing that too much! try again in 9 minutes..."), guys. Sorry for the slow responses.

Maybe message the mods, this probably isn't how it is supposed to work on AMA  Wow the questions really blew up on this one. Let me start digging in...

To be honest, I laughed at NPH. I don't think it was meant as a political statement, but even if it was, that's not so bad. My perspective is if you're not willing to be called a few names to help out your country, you don't care enough. 

["If this be treason, then let us make the most of it."](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Patrick_Henry)

Note: reddit is rate-limiting my replies to one per ten minutes ("you are doing that too much! try again in 9 minutes..."), guys. Sorry for the slow responses.  Hey admins, this is a pretty big AMA, how about you cut Snowden some slack with the reply/submission rules for a few hours? We figured out the mix-up.  Reddit: "huh... that's not us"
NSA: "he.. he.. he.."

See also: man-in-the-middle attack NSA: "Don't go to Snowden's AMA! Look over here, look at all these dank memes!" Did you confirm your email? Nice try GCHQ. And your exact GPS coordinates.  Edward, a friend of mine works for the NSA. He still actively denies that anything you have done or said is legitimate, completely looking past any documented proof that you uncovered and released.  

Is this because at lower levels of the agency, they don't see what's going on in the intelligence gathering section? Or do you suspect he simply refuses to see any wrongdoing by his employer? So when you work  at NSA, you get sent what are called "Agency-All" emails. They're what they sound like: messages that go to everybody in the workforce. 

In addition to normal bureaucratic communications, they're used frequently for opinion-shaping internally, and are often classified at least in part. They assert (frequently without evidence) what is true or false about cases and controversies in the public news that might influence the thinking about the Intelligence Community workforce, while at the same time reminding them how *totally screwed* they'll be if they talk to a journalist (while helpfully reminding them to refer people to the public affairs office).

Think about what it does to a person to come into their special top-secret office every day and get a special secret email from "The Director of NSA" (actually drafted by totally different people, of course, because senior officials don't have time to write PR emails) explaining to you why everything you heard in the news is wrong, and how only the brave, patriotic, and hard-working team of cleared professionals in the IC know the truth.

Think about how badly you want to believe that. Everybody wants to be valued and special, and nobody wants to think they've perhaps contributed to a huge mistake. It's not evil, it's human.

Tell your friend I was just like they are. But there's a reason the government has -- now almost two years out -- never shown me to have told a lie. I don't ask anybody to believe me. I don't *want* anybody to believe me. I want you to look around and decide for yourself what you believe, independent of what people says, indepedent of what's on TV, and independent of what your classified emails might claim. I used to work for a major oil and gas company. We would get these kind of messages all the time.

'Hh, you might have read some stuff in the news saying that we bribed some African government and killed half the people in a village because we couldn't be arsed testing our BOP first. Ignore that.' &gt; Think about how badly you want to believe that. Everybody wants to be valued and special, and nobody wants to think they've perhaps contributed to a huge mistake. It's not evil, it's human.
&gt; 

That makes sense. Sometimes, I wonder if that's what it all comes down to. &gt; I want you to look around and decide for yourself what you believe, independent of what people says, indepedent of what's on TV, and independent of what your classified emails might claim.

This x1000 He's like a cyber buddha /u/falcon4287 have you considered the implications for your friend if he were known by his employer to have said something significantly different from what he's told you? I completely understand him not wanting to say something over the phone... but when I brought up Edward Snowden, his defensiveness about the subject was not "feeding me the company line," he was genuinely upset about what Snowden did and was angrily calling him a traitor.  

Given that it was the day before the guy's wedding, I didn't want to get into it with him by mentioning my views that Snowden is a national hero. He was already irate at the mere mention of Snowden's name. That's far from just telling me what he's "supposed to" say. He genuinely believed what he was saying. I have the impression that a lot of NSA people think they are doing a great thing for protecting the country, defending US interests.

And to a certain point, they are right. They just don't realize that at the same time, they're destroying everything the US prides itself about (individual freedoms, democracy, ...). You absolutely have to believe in what you're doing. It's not a matter of being paid enough to quiet the moral voice inside you, it's that you believe that national security and America's interests should be pursued and protected by pretty much whatever means necessary. These agencies look very closely at candidates and try their best to discern whether or not they fit that profile.  Glenn, if you had a chance with no consequences to say anything at the podium last night, what would it had been? I probably would have said what I said the day before when CITIZENFOUR won the Independent Spirit Award and Laura, Dirk and Mathilde generously asked me to say something:

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=udfKDCI3i2s

Or maybe I would have just read from some documents that I can't wait to be reported and disclosed, along with some nice visuals of those docs. Transcript for people who can't access the video:
&gt; A lot of people talk about this film as if it is a subversion of privacy, and I think it's actually much more about a subversion of democracy - if we don't know the most important acts that our government is doing because it's kept from us, then we don't really have meaningful democracy , and that's why really brave whistle-blowers like Daniel Ellsberg, and Chelsea Manning and especially the stunningly courageous Edward Snowden deserve not decades in prison but our collective gratitude! First, congrats to the Oscar! 
Mr. Snowden, what do you think about the latest news kaspersky broke? I understand they don't talk about victims and aggressors because it's their business model. But do you think they should name the nsa as an aggressor when they know about? 
Edit: spelling.  The Kaspersky report on the "Equation Group" (they appear to have stopped short of naming them specifically as NSA, although authorship is clear) was significant, but I think more significant is the recent report on the joint UK-UK hacking of Gemalto, a Dutch company that produces critical infrastructure used around the world, including here at home.

Why? Well, although firmware exploitation is nasty, it's at least theoretically reparable: tools could plausibly be created to detect the bad firmware hashes and re-flash good ones. This isn't the same for SIMs, which are flashed at the factory and never touched again. [When the NSA and GCHQ compromised the security of potentially billions of phones (3g/4g encryption relies on the shared secret resident on the sim)](https://firstlook.org/theintercept/2015/02/19/great-sim-heist/), they not only screwed the manufacturer, they screwed all of us, because the only way to address the security compromise is to recall and replace every SIM sold by Gemalto.

Our governments - particular the security branches - should never be weighing the equities in an intelligence gathering operation such that a temporary benefit to surveillance regarding a few key targets is seen as more desireable than protecting the communications of a global system (and this goes double when we are more reliant on communications and technology for our economy productivity than our adversaries). So far Gemalto is claiming SIMs are still secure. http://www.cnet.com/news/sim-card-maker-gemalto-says-its-cards-are-secure-despite-hack/

Not believing them at this point. Theoretically I would believe them if they had found some traces of an intrusion and had figured out that it would not have allowed access to private keys. But based on just their claims of security, not buying it yet. I wouldn't believe them either. When we're talking about how to weight reliability between specific government documents detailing specific Gemalto employees and systems (and tittering about how badly they've been owned) against a pretty breezy and insubstantial press release from a corporation whose stock lost 500,000,000 EUR in value in a single day, post-report, I know which side I come down on.

That's not to say Gemalto's claims are totally worthless, but they have to recognize that their business relies on trust, and if they try to wave away a serious compromise, it'll cost them more than it saves them.
 Gemalto just released a new press release:

http://www.gemalto.com/press/Pages/Update-on-the-SIM-card-encryption-keys-matter.aspx

Looks like they are backtracking already on their previous comments. Sidenote: I just wanted to tell you how much of an inspiration you are to me and to so many of teens like me. You're my idol. As a person who has a very full understanding of how GSM/UMTS networks work and how UE(user equipment) attaches to them, its a lie. If they have the key or have hacked the SIM fw, they can do pretty much anything.  Very exciting to see you here Mr Snowden.

We've now known about the scary stuff happening at the NSA for quite some time. And yet from what I've seen, there's been no real effort to stop it.

What are your thoughts on what we, as regular citizens, can do now? Check out [Prism Break](https://prism-break.org/en/)

basically has free and open source alternatives to the NSA-compromised software most of us use on a daily basis.

Also support the [EFF](https://www.eff.org/), they're fighting for the same cause Snowden is.

Edit: Thank you so much for the reddit gold, anonymous Redditor!
 You can support the EFF without having to reach into your own pockets and right here on reddit:

Reddit will give $82,765.95 to each of the top ten charities that are chosen by us users.

Other organisations that support internet and personal freedom: Tor Project Inc., The Linux Foundation, Mozilla Foundation, Free Software Foundation

You can vote for up to 10 charities, these are just five great ones

https://www.reddit.com/donate Direct links to vote to donate via reddit:

[EFF](https://www.reddit.com/donate?organization=43091431)  
[Tor Project](https://www.reddit.com/donate?organization=208096820)  
[Linux Foundation](https://www.reddit.com/donate?organization=460503801)  
[Mozilla Foundation](https://www.reddit.com/donate?organization=200097189)  
[Free Software Foundation](https://www.reddit.com/donate?organization=42888848)  
[Internet Archive](https://www.reddit.com/donate?organization=943242767)  
[Wikimedia Foundation](https://www.reddit.com/donate?organization=200049703)

Also check out /r/redditdonate for more suggestions. One of the biggest problems in governance today is the difficulty faced by citizens looking to hold officials to account when they cross the line. We can develop new tools and traditions to protect our rights, and we can do our best to elect new and better representatives, but if we cannot enforce consequences on powerful officials for abusive behavior, we end up in a system where the incentives reward bad behavior post-election. 

That's how we end up with candidates who say one thing but, once in power, do something radically different. How do you fix that? Good question. Yeah but it makes for a good netflix show. Mr Snowden, do you feel that your worst fear is being realized, that most people don't care about their privacy?

Thank you, Mr Greenwald for the works you've written on this subject. No Place to Hide was fantastic. Mr Snowden, thank you for standing up for what you believe in, even in the face of extreme adversity. Ms. Poitras, thank you for the work you do and the things you create despite similar scrutiny. The world is better by having the three of you, and congratulations on the win. To answer the question, I don't. Poll after poll is confirming that, contrary to what we tend to think, people not only care, they care a lot. The problem is we feel disempowered. We feel like we can't do anything about it, so we may as well not try.

It's going to be a long process, but that's starting to change. The technical community (and a special shoutout to every underpaid and overworked student out there working on this -- you are the noble Atlas lifting up the globe in our wildly inequitable current system) is in a lot of way left holding the bag on this one by virtue of the nature of the problems, but that's not all bad. 2013, for a lot of engineers and researchers, was a kind of atomic moment for computer science. Much like physics post-Manhattan project, an entire field of research that was broadly apolitical realized that work intended to improve the human condition could also be subverted to degrade it.

Politicians and the powerful have indeed got a hell of a head start on us, but equality of awareness is a powerful equalizer. In almost every jurisdiction you see officials scrambling to grab for new surveillance powers now not because they think they're necessary -- even government reports say mass surveillance doesn't work -- but because they think it's their last chance.

Maybe I'm an idealist, but I think they're right. In twenty years' time, the paradigm of digital communications will have changed entirely, and so too with the norms of mass surveillance.
 /u/SuddenlySnowden

Ed,

I want to thank you for the sacrifices you made in defense of our constitution. Your revelations helped me to realize just how badly out of control the NSA has gotten. I have been politically active in the Oregon Republican Party for several years now, and you inspired me to propose an amendment to the state party platform (at our August 2013 state convention) that explicitly articulates our support for the 4th amendment and our opposition to the warrantless surveillance that you, Laura &amp; Glenn brought to light:

&gt;2.8 We support Oregonians' right to privacy, specifically including personal possessions and electronic records, from mass surveillance, search, or seizure unless authorized by a specific warrant based on probable cause.

Source: [Oregon Republican Party platform](http://www.oregonrepublicanparty.org/Platform2013) (amended 8/10/2013)

After the "Crime and Justice" committee discussed and edited my proposal, we unanimously recommended it to the full convention, and it was in fact adopted by the rest of the body with little to no public opposition.

If anyone wants to read about my experience, you can do so in this thread that I originally posted to /r/RestoreTheFourth:

[Last weekend, I introduced an anti-surveillance amendment to the Oregon Republican Party platform. It was unanimously approved by my committee and then adopted by the rest of the convention.](http://www.reddit.com/r/restorethefourth/comments/1kdzzp/last_weekend_i_introduced_an_antisurveillance) 

People *do* care, and we have been figuring out ways to make sure that our elected officials know it. Hey guys, sorry -- the reddit mods are being a little weird. My account is /u/SuddenlySnowden. 

Mods: Can you pull back the ban?  I can't post from the primary account. Thanks. [deleted] [deleted] Mod here - really sorry for the confusion. Your colleagues set up the OPs account for you and when you started replying on a different account we had to assume it was a fake.

Your new account /u/SuddenlySnowden is good to go. Thanks! Feel free to prune this part of the thread. Did Edward Snowden just encourage censorship?! 

Of course that was satirical [deleted] Mr. Snowden, the legal scholar Amy Peikoff says that the reason why the U.S. Supreme Court rationalizes that mass surveillance is constitutional, and not a violation of the Fourth Amendment, is that the Supreme Court cites the Third Party Doctrine. Scholars such as Amy Peikoff say that for mass surveillance to end, the Supreme Court would have to overturn the Third Party Doctrine.  May I ask for your views on the Third Party Doctrine as it relates to mass surveillance?   [deleted] Hello fantastic trio.

Any hope that CITIZENFOUR's success will help with repatriating its star, or will the Manning treatment forever hang over your head? Edward Snowden should not be forced to choose between living in Russia or spending decades in a cage inside a high-security American prison.

DC officials and journalists are being extremely deceitful when they say: 'if he thinks he did the right thing,he should come back and face trial and argue that."

Under the Espionage Act, Snowden would be barred even from raising a defense of justification. The courts would not allow it. So he'd be barred from raising the defense they keep saying he should come back and raise.

The goal of the US government is to threaten, bully and intimidate all whistleblowers - which is what explains the mistreatment and oppression of the heroic Chelsea Manning - because they think that climate of fear is crucial to deterring future whistleblowers.

As long as they embrace that tactic, it's hard to envision them letting Ed return to his country. But we as citizens should be much more interested in the question of why our government threatens and imprisons whistleblowers. &gt; Under the Espionage Act, Snowden would be barred even from raising a defense of justification. The courts would not allow it. So he'd be barred from raising the defense they keep saying he should come back and raise.

I'd like to add some words about that wonderful bill:

*The Espionage Act of 1917 was passed to prevent spying but also contained a section which criminalized inciting or attempting to incite any mutiny, desertion, or refusal of duty in the armed forces, punishable with a fine of not more than $10,000, not more than twenty years in federal prison, or both. Thousands of anti-war activists and unhappy citizens were prosecuted on authority of this and the Sedition Act of 1918, which tightened restrictions even more. Among the most famous was Eugene Debs, chairman of the Socialist Party of the USA for giving an anti-war speech in Ohio. The U.S. Supreme Court upheld these prosecutions in a series of decisions. Conscientious objectors were punished as well, most of them Christian pacifist inductees. They were placed directly in the armed forces and court-martialed, receiving draconian sentences and harsh treatment. A number of them died in Alcatraz Prison, then a military facility. Vigilante groups were formed which suppressed dissent as well, such as by rounding up draft-age men and checking if they were in possession of draft cards or not.* Don't you find it kind of depressing how little the world was actually moved by the revelations? I do. For a few days at a time it was the biggest news story ever but barely anything has changed and people are still using Google, Apple et al. in the same ways. The news in general is just so transient, watching the documentary just brought it all back. It felt like it might actually amount to something but as far as I can tell, even with the courts recently ruling that GCHQs actions were illegal for many years and NSAs whole program amounting to nothing, no significant legislation has passed and for all we know they are still rapidly expanding their programs. I think much has changed. The US Government hasn't restricted its own power, but it's unrealistic to expect them to do so.

There are now court cases possible challenging the legality of this surveillance - one federal court in the US and a British court just recently found this spying illegal.

Social media companies like Facebook and Apple are being forced by their users to install encryption and other technological means to prevent surveillance, which is a significant barrier.

Nations around the world (such as Brazil and Germany) are working together in unison to prevent US hegemony over the internet and to protect the privacy of their own citizens.

And, most of all, because people now realize the extent to which their privacy is being compromised, they can - and increasingly are - using encryption and anonymizers to protect their own privacy and physically prevent mass surveillance (see here: http://www.wired.com/2014/05/sandvine-report/).

All of these changes are very significant. And that's to say nothing of the change in consciousness around the world about how hundreds of millions of people think about these issues. The story has been, and continues to be, huge in many countries outside the US. To dogpile on to this, many of the changes that are happening are invisible because they're happening at the engineering level. Google encrypted the backhaul communications between their data centers to prevent passive monitoring. Apple was the first forward with an FDE-by-default smartphone (kudos!). Grad students around the world are trying to come up with ways to solve the metadata problem (the opportunity to monitor everyone's associations -- who you talk to, who you sleep with, who you vote for -- even in encrypted communications).

The biggest change has been in awareness. Before 2013, if you said the NSA was making records of everybody's phonecalls and the GCHQ was monitoring lawyers and journalists, people raised eyebrows and called you a conspiracy theorist. 

Those days are over. Facts allow us to stop speculating and start building, and that's the foundation we need to fix the internet. We just happened to be the generation stuck with fighting these fires. The disclosures really changed me personally. Information security and cryptography is something I somehow just not that aware of before, and now I can't get enough of it, it's the perfect confluence of all my interests. As someone who graduated college not sure what to do next, it feels so empowering to have a real goal now, I want to work on the tools that will protect people's rights and help people to use them. So thank you for everything you've done, I'm still amazed at how well planned and executed it all was. Hey Glenn I think you should edit the original post to include all of y'all's reddit usernames. I see /u/SuddenlySnowden commenting but he doesn't have flair.

EDIT: tyty With all the bad news coming out of there, what's the upside to living in Russia right now? In the past week, it's actually been warmer than the East Coast. Wasn't expecting that one.  "Not living in an American prison." would be my guess. "Russia- it's pretty bad here, but it's not quite Gitmo bad" You should ask the US Government:

1) why are you putting whistleblowers in prison at record rates?

2) why did you revoke his passport when he was trying to transit through Russia, thus forcing him to stay there?

3) why do you put whistleblowers in the position of having to choose between asylum in another country or decades in prison? Do you mind people pirating Citizenfour? I don't have a commercial interest in the film, so I can't speak for the filmmakers, but I know what it's like to be a student with no money. The movie is currently available for free as the movie is used as a public evidence in a lawsuit
http://t3n.de/news/citizenfour-oscar-gekroente-595416/ This is a brilliant loophole. Time to sue Metallica. You should put it on Netflix ASAP though. More people will watch it that way as well. Suddenly, Netflix gets throttled again... First off, thank you for all you have done.

Mr. Greenwald, you mentioned before in [an article on Canadaland](http://canadalandshow.com/article/exclusive-cbc-stonewalled-snowden-story-says-greenwald) that CBC stonewalled you in a story you were working on with them. Would you be able to elaborate on what happened and what that story was (more or less)? I've spoken some about this. We had a great relationship with the CBC for months and did some big-impact stories on CSEC:

http://www.cbc.ca/news/politics/csec-used-airport-wi-fi-to-track-canadian-travellers-edward-snowden-documents-1.2517881

 The reporter with whom we were working left (Greg Weston) - he was great - and then new one who was assigned wasn't comfortable with the documents, it seemed to us.

But then CBC editors assured us they were committed to doing the reporting aggressively, assigned someone new, and the last story CBC did with us - on mass CSEC spying on file uploads - was, I think, superbly done:

http://www.cbc.ca/news/cse-tracks-millions-of-downloads-daily-snowden-documents-1.2930120 Thank you so much for responding. Huge fan of your work. Ed, is there any truth to the report that [Anna Chapman](https://imgur.com/rYi6tHl) [attempted to "seduce" you](http://nypost.com/2014/12/07/sexy-russian-spy-tried-to-seduce-snowden/)? lol no. &gt; lol no.

*--Edward Snowden* [Made one of those inspirational quote pictures with this.](https://i.imgur.com/BiSkH5D.png) I'm going to use this when someone says something stupid. Needs the period. brb becoming a whistleblower And then you get painted by the American media as a rapist and sex offender through their common character assassination plots. I think the correct term is "honey-pot"

Edit: Fuck you /u/suddenlysnowden for hijacking my post. Edward, what was the culture like at the NSA as an insider? Were others conscious of the implications of what was/is going on and their part within it? 

Thanks very much for coming by, and of course to all 3 of you for your ongoing work! I have a filmmaking question for Laura. I'm sure this was probably answered in an interview somewhere, but what kind of legal issues did you run into with this film if any? Was there ever the threat of the footage being seized at customs? Given the fact that I had been repeatedly detained at the U.S. border because of my work on previous films, I moved to Berlin to edit Citizenfour. 

When Ed contacted me in early 2013 I gave him my assurance I would never comply with a subpoena. Before going to Hong Kong I met with many lawyers to assess the risk. I ignored some of the warnings - for instance the Washington Post urged me not to travel to Hong Kong. Another lawyer said not to bring my camera. 

In the end I decided I could not live with the decision to not travel to Hong Kong.  Mr. Snowden: what was the last thing you did as a "free man" before you had to go on the run?  Snowden, from the bottom of my heart, thank you for what you did.

As somebody which doesn't live in the USA or the UK, what can I do to fight mass surveillance by NSA/NHCQ? Is it really limited to VPN &amp; encryption etc? (Think: politically, I can't fight the US government, right? I live in the Netherlands)

To add; Do you believe that other countries besides the US are practicing similar "security" methods that haven't been outed? (By /u/TheJlpm) Also, do you believe that other countries besides the US are practicing similar "security" methods that haven't been outed? I added your question to my reply, child comments on top level comments rarely get replies and I'd like to know the answer too, hope you don't mind :)  Mr Snowden,

What is the exact feeling you felt when you started seeing yourself on the TV while holed up in the hotel in Hong Kong? Did you ever get to go outside? At what point did you actually realize your life will be changed forever? 

How can we stay 'connected' with our families and friends on social media, while staying vigilant of what is currently going on with regards to surveillance. I can't opt out completely, it's my work, it's my communication methods, it's how people know I'm alive!

Thank you. [deleted] Yes, I have seen the film and I did see his reaction. I'm wondering what HIS reaction was, not my interpretation of his reaction.  Did any of your coworkers agree with what you did? why did no one else step forward? I remember when The Intercept broke the [JTRIG story](https://firstlook.org/theintercept/2014/02/24/jtrig-manipulation/), there seemed to be a near-complete media blackout in western media. For a week, the only other reporting I could find about it was from alt-news sites and foreign organizations like RT. It was even [censored from reddit.](https://www.techdirt.com/articles/20140226/11344026358/reddit-mods-bury-glenn-greenwalds-story-gchqnsa-use-internet-to-destroy-reputations.shtml/)

I found this profoundly frightening, as it seemed to me like the most indefensible aspect of the leaks thusfar, and no one was talking about it. The Guardian covered every other leak yet even they were strangely silent. 

Thoughts on this? Was there a media blackout, and if there was, what are the implications of that? How do you feel about people already sharing publicly their private info and thoughts anyway that without surveillance, the US government still could have a good idea of what's going on? This is to everyone.

To Snowden, how do you feel about Russia's...well Crimea and general Ukraine shenanigans?  Congrats Laura and Glenn. 3 questions: Did you get any A-list approval for your work in the midst of the fanfare of the Oscars? Ed: What did you make of Neil Patrick Harris' "for some treason" joke? And finally, Glenn, how hard was it to not say something during acceptance speech?  Both Alejandro Gonzlez Irritu and Marion Cotillard came up to congratulate us on our work afterwards, which we really appreciated. And Best Supporting Actress winner Patricia Arquette had some incredibly nice things to say about the film the day before at the Independent Spirit Awards.  Both of them will be deported now after the NSA reads this. Mr. Greenwald, Sam Harris in his most recent podcast has accused you of putting him and his family in danger by misrepresenting his views about Islam and by implying he bears some responsibility for a recent high profile attack against Muslims in the United States. What do you have to say to this? 

EDIT: Thanks for the gold, kind stranger. No answer, but let's keep putting on the heat until he speaks to this issue.  Sam Harris also said that he contacted Greenwald to correct the misrepresentation, and Greenwald went with the story anyway. 

For the sake of journalistic integrity, Greenwald should address this. Agreed. Glenn needs to put his personal animus for Sam Harris aside  it's a massive stain on an otherwise impeccable professional reputation. Why he let that get the best of him is a real head-scratcher. How is it a misrepresentation? Harris himself cannot claim to not supporting the Iraq and Afghanistan conquests due to his overly hostile perspective of Islam. Which is exactly the issue he is consistently being taken to task for. Its a ludicrous position and someone needs to call him on it. Good on Greenwald again. Bad ideas don't get a pass just because they happen to be part of a religion. Saying an idea is bad does not legitimize going to war over it. The hostility is coming from everyone that misrepresents his views, Greenwald included. Harris bashes the religion far more than the idea. This is what Greenwald is calling him out on. So ISIS has no connection to Islam, and the Crusades had no relation to Christianity, correct? Let's just ignore the role of religion (a group of bad ideas) and its influence on horrible actions, correct?

If the Spanish Inquisition were happening today, would you be protecting Christianity from criticism?

Greenwald is an activist and Harris is an academic, and there lies the difference. Greenwald should increase public understanding and attack anyone (fascists, warmongers) who manipulates legitimate arguments for their purpose. Instead, he himself manipulates these views for his own purpose. This does not foster intellectually honest discussion.



 &gt;So ISIS has no connection to Islam, and the Crusades had no relation to Christianity, correct? Let's just ignore the role of religion (a group of bad ideas) and its influence on horrible actions, correct?

No.

&gt;If the Spanish Inquisition were happening today, would you be protecting Christianity from criticism?

No.

&gt;Greenwald is an activist and Harris is an academic, and there lies the difference.

Wrong.

 Since we agree on the first two parts, I suggest you read and listen to material from both of them and then make an informed decision. You'll come around on the third. In case anyone is wondering what this is about: Glenn Greenwald has written [this](http://www.theguardian.com/commentisfree/2013/apr/03/sam-harris-muslim-animus) article in which he claims that Sam Harris and other proponents of the New Atheism are taking islamophobic positions. http://www.samharris.org/blog/item/on-the-mechanics-of-defamation As much as I love the reporting Greenwald does his "fight" with Harris is some of the most stupid drivel I've seen a serious journalist spout, I really wish we'd get some kind of proper answer for this. Wow, I ctrl + f'd Harris not expecting much, but here it is. Good on you and the rest that are giving this visibility.  I really hope he answers this, because I'm in complete agreement with Harris here. Greenwald and Aslan (who are obviously intelligent guys) go out of their way to quote him out of context for a purpose that's still mysterious to me. Totally agree. I lost a lot of respect for Greenwald over this.  I think everyone with a brain agrees with Harris here. Greenwald and Aslan are being cowardly and flat-out dumb with this. They do the same with government officials. Unfortunately, not many people seem to realize greenwald is a partisan libertarian hack who loves to attack other journalists, other innocent people, even government officials, using slander and lying about them and trying to vilify them on purpose. He gets along with Edward, because he too is a libertarian. That is why they hate the Obama administration so much. That is why they hate George W. Bush (because one is conservative the other is liberal). Greenwald has never voted in US elections because he doesn't believe in the US. It's very possible that they both believe that the US is not a real democracy and are strong believers in conspiracy theories.

The ends justify the means for Greenwald. If he can make every American hate the US government and people he disagrees with. He'd do it in a heartbeat even if it means spreading a ton of lies. Nice try NSA. At least you don't hide your beliefs behind a username. So you have that going for you. You need some help. I came here to ask this question as well. Thanks for bringing it up.

Greenwald, you need to answer this. Yeah I've always found this sort of contradictory as far as Glenn's views goes. He seems libertarian at first in that he's all for calling out the U.S. government in it's abuses of power. He seems to avoid calling out other obvious authoritarian systems, like religion, and their role in political issues. He also condemned Chait's article recently about political correctness as an authoritarian tool of the left. I've never really understood exactly what his view is as one of the more libertarian mainstream journalists. I would also like to know why Greenwald goes out of his way to misrepresent Harris. At this point, I can't really think of a reason other than he is just an unscrupulous bully. He has a different view on the topic (one further from reality than Harris) and he wants to back up his view. Easiest way is to discredit the opponent Yeah, clearly, something like integrity is of no concern to Greenwald. This is Glenn's piece with updates: http://www.theguardian.com/commentisfree/2013/apr/03/sam-harris-muslim-animus

Just read Sam Harris' pieces, Greenwald doesn't need to "imply" anything, those are simply Sam's views.

Here's an example: http://www.samharris.org/site/full_text/response-to-controversy2

&gt;Contrary to Greenwalds assertion, my condemnation of Islam does not apply to all members of a group or the group itself based on the bad acts of specific individuals in that group. My condemnation applies to the doctrines of Islam and to the ways in which they reliably produce these bad acts. Unfortunately, in the case of Islam, the bad acts of the worst individualsthe jihadists, the murderers of apostates, and the men who treat their wives and daughters like chattelare the best examples of the doctrine in practice. Those who adhere most strictly to the actual teachings of Islam, those who expound its timeless dogma most honestly, are precisely the people whom Greenwald and other obscurantists want us to believe least represent the faith.

[anti-Muslim profiling](http://www.samharris.org/blog/item/in-defense-of-profiling) ("We should profile Muslims, or anyone who looks like he or she could conceivably be Muslim, and we should be honest about it")

I am in fact quite disappointed with Sam Harris because I admired him before reading these (well, I guess I can still admire him for other things). My admiration for Glenn Greenwald however has only increased I used to like Sam Harris too, as a religiously confused person trying to make sense of the world. My views have shifted and no longer align with his though.

Looking back, I think his views have not really shifted, he's always seemingly "had it in" for Islam in particular, culminating in such disgusting arguments as his "In Defense of Profiling" piece. I think that one really woke me up as to how toxic his ideology was all along.

What I think illustrates his toxic hatred of Muslims better than anything, is comparing the arguments he puts forth in "[Riddle of the Gun](http://www.samharris.org/blog/item/the-riddle-of-the-gun)" with the aforementioned "Profiling" piece. In the gun rights piece, he argues that deaths due to gun violence and gun killing sprees are so low as to not justify harsh legislation aimed at curtailing gun rights. I agree with him here, actually.

It's just that when it comes to terrorism, his logical consistency completely breaks down. The same argument applying to shooting sprees (that they are actually extremely rare, but manipulate our psyche more due to their shocking nature) actually applies to terrorist attacks as well. Terrorist attacks are exceedingly rare, and yet their shock value causes us to react irrationally by passing bad laws restricting rights. Except that when it comes to terrorism, Harris is a proponent of government actions that are irrational and furthermore restrictive of human rights and civil liberties.

So, yeah, I think he is dishonestly pushing an extremist agenda, couching it in 'atheism' and 'science' to make it more palatable.

 I hope this issue gets resolved, because I'm a fan of both Harris and Greenwald, but I think they both have opposite shortcomings and need to realize each other's arguments (Greenwald for the culpability of religion in modern terrorism, and Harris for the overreach of the US in combating it). don't count on that motherfucker answering you. Don't worry. You won't get an answer. Greenwald only cares about Greenwald, not journalistic integrity. If he can find any quote to misrepresent someone in order to get himself a "story", he will do it in a heartbeat.  Well, he doesn't care about journalistic integrity, which is why he insisted for a week after his first PRISM story (when he claimed, incorrectly, that NSA could directly access Facebook and Google servers completely on their own) that his falsehoods were true, even after Washington Post corrected their story and the New York Times published more accurate reporting.

I'll note that the source proving Greenwald wrong were the very NSA slides he leaked, which Greenwald misunderstood. You'd have thought that having Snowden available to explain the technical details would have at least ensured the technical accuracy of the very first Greenwald story. Link to said podcast: https://soundcloud.com/samharrisorg/chapel-hill-murders Hey, the first difficult question in the thread is 30 comments from the top and isn't answered. I'm not surprised.  I also hope this gets an answer. I'd like Mr. Greenwald to recognize that he and Harris are on the same side. They actually aren't on the same side. They have major disagreements about the role of Islam, religion, and terrorism.

Greenwald seems to be much more in the Chomsky camp, as in America is the biggest problem / cause of problems in the world. You're right -- that they have quite different worldviews is abundantly evident.

I think Greenwald's likely position is a little more nuanced than you've written. I've read quite a bit of his stuff and I don't think he blames America for *everything*. But one would definitely be correct in saying that criticism of America is extremely frequent in his writing.

Why is this? I actually think it's because, as an American (and a constitutional lawyer), he feels like he's in the best position to level criticisms against the US government. Not only that, but that he has a duty to speak out. It's his niche.

This quote by Noam Chomsky is instructive in this regard:

&gt;*"My own concern is primarily the terror and violence carried out by my own state, for two reasons. For one thing, because it happens to be the larger component of international violence. But also for a much more important reason than that; namely, I can do something about it. So even if the U.S. was responsible for 2 percent of the violence in the world instead of the majority of it, it would be that 2 percent I would be primarily responsible for. And that is a simple ethical judgment. That is, the ethical value of one's actions depends on their anticipated and predictable consequences. It is very easy to denounce the atrocities of someone else. That has about as much ethical value as denouncing atrocities that took place in the 18th century."*

Certainly with respect to the issue of terrorism against the West or terrorism in formerly US-occupied territories, he does level the criticism that US actions are in many cases responsible for creating the situation in which terrorism is thriving in the first place. I happen to agree with this, and Greenwald is far from the only person saying it. Even many veterans of the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan are coming back saying they are convinced our actions over there are causing blowback and instability.

I'm not all current on his feud with  Sam Harris, and I think all the arguing about 'Islamophobia' is just pointless because that term means different things to different people. While I think Harris goes too far in his rhetoric about Islam, personally I wouldn't leap to the conclusion that he bears blame for vigilante attacks against Muslims (as apparently Greenwald has claimed -- not sure though as I haven't read this piece).

 Regardless of whether or not Harris is or isn't an 'Islamophobe', I think there is one criticism of him that ought to stick: his corpus of work provides cover for the surveillance state and the military to justify primarily targeting Muslims, both at home and abroad. And although the vigilantism of private citizens against innocent Muslims is abhorrent, I think it is dwarved by the State focusing some of its most sinister powers on the Muslim population, just for being Muslim. 

Harris's works justify such ugly policies, and I think part of Harris's success is due to  his messages  actually being desirable to the powers that be. I mean, do you remember [this article of his](http://www.samharris.org/blog/item/in-defense-of-profiling)? Really sickening stuff that, due to Harris's fame, could open a lot of peoples' minds to the ideas that some really egregious rights violations by the US government, are, in fact, justified. I think Harris really does deserve to get called out for stuff like that. And maybe Greenwald is not the best person to do it now -- the spat seems to have gotten kind of personal. Thanks for the thought out response =). You'll have my rebuttal when I'm home from work! You're giving Harris and Chomsky too much credit for being able to influence policy directly. I probably am. But they both have influence on public perceptions, which, at least theoretically, should have an effect on policy. 

 Sam Harris and /u/suddenlysnowden both promote free speech, science and most notably, a challenge to the status quo. Why is Greenwald still continuing to talk down to Harris but doing the opposite for Snowden? I agree. The former two have much in common.

I imagine Greenwalds treatment of Harris is his response to their fundamental disagreements on various other topics, which don't exist in the Greenwald / Snowden relationship. Sam Harris is a dishonest purveyor of intellectualized bigotry. Greenwald has represented his views accurately.

Nobody on the planet complains more about purportedly being "taken out of context" than Sam Harris and his acolytes. To believe them is to believe that myriad people have committed this infraction, as Greenwald is hardly the only person about whom they make this whine.

See the entry for Sam Harris at Rational Wiki. They copiously quote Harris and link to all original materials. They note Harris claims to being widely taken out of context.

It's BS, and well past time for Harris and his New Atheist supporters to grow up and face the reality of the man's horrid words and arguments. How can Harris simultaneously claim that the words he writes about Muslims *don't* put Muslims in danger, but that Greenwald's words about him (Harris) *do* put *him* in danger?

Does that seem a little logically inconsistent to you? No. Sam Harris addresses this charge quite coherently in his most recent post: http://www.samharris.org/blog/item/the-chapel-hill-murders-and-militant-atheism Before I dedicate time to listening to 24 minutes of his podcast...

Does he address the logical consistency I bring up in there, and if so, can I trouble you to briefly sum up his argument?

In particular, I'm curious how these two views of his can be rectified:

- Characterizing Muslims (in published works) as adherents of a violent terroristic religion  who encourage attacks on unbelievers *will not* put Muslims in danger of vigilantism.

- Characterizing Sam Harris (in published works) as a polemicist who encourages Islamophobia and the government taking targeted measures against Muslims *will* put Sam Harris in danger of vigilantism.

Because the description of it is : 

&gt;Sam Harris responds to the charge that militant atheism is responsible for the murder of three Muslim students in North Carolina.

Which sounds like kind of a different issue. For the record, I am withholding any judgment on UNCCH murders were aimed at the victims because of Islam, or 'atheist-motivated', or whatever, until there is more information. At this stage it seems premature to speculate.
 Fair enough (although it's toward the very beginning if you are curious--start around minute 5). No time for a long reply, but here are random thoughts:

You can draw a direct line between Muslim ideology and killing people who disagree with or are perceived to have disrespected Islam. You cannot do the same for atheists (Harris' audience)--their lack of theistic belief does not compel them to kill people who criticize atheism. I think this idea obviously comports with reality, and Sam also cites compelling data about hate crimes in the US that support this. Thus Harris' criticism of Muslim belief does not endanger Muslims the way that Greenwald's criticism of Harris' beliefs does.

Another difference here is that Sam Harris goes way out of his way to paint an accurate picture of broadly held Muslim belief. He references data heavily, all the time. At the very least, he is not purposefully misrepresenting the beliefs of the subjects of his criticism. On the other, Greenwald's portrayal of Harris' beliefs deviates heavily from the beliefs that Harris has painstakingly and repeatedly spelled out in clear detail so as not to be vulnerable to the type of distortion that Greenwald achieves. Greenwald seems like a smart guy, so there's no way to interpret his criticism of Sam Harris other than to say that he goes out of his way to misrepresent Harris' views.

Ultimately, you have to be allowed to criticize bad ideas, assuming you are doing so honestly. Sam Harris is doing that, Greenwald is not. Cool thank you for summing it up!

So, it appears to me, the crux of how Harris deftly escapes this logical trap, is to again invoke some of the same characterizations of Islam that he was lambasted for in the first place? 

SH: Islam has the ignoble distinction that Muslims kill for their ideology in numbers that vastly exceed other groups you might compare to Muslims. Atheists, for example. I have some cherry picked statistics to demonstrate this.

GG: Sam Harris's twisted view of Islam provides cover for atrocities and injustices committed on Muslims by the governments of the West. His Islamophobia encourages hatred towards, and vigilantism against, Muslim minorities in Western countries. Also, he should feel bad. And I'm going to write inflammatory stuff on Twitter about it because I love flamewars.

SH: Glenn Greenwald's twisted mischaracterization of my remarks is unfair. I do not advocate vigilantism and my words pose no threat to Muslims. I am not Islamophobic. I merely believe that Islam is a cancerous belief system, incongruous with Western values, that must be fully stamped out if there is to be world peace. Besides, everything I'm saying is true. I have the cherry picked survey data to back it up. Glenn Greenwald's inflammatory remarks encourage hatred against, and vigilantism towards, me and my family.

goonsack: How can you claim that what you write about Muslims doesn't put Muslims in danger, but that Greenwald's words about you do put you in danger? 

SH: ... ... **Islam has the ignoble distinction that Muslims kill for their ideology in numbers that vastly exceed other groups you might compare to Muslims.**


I dunno - it seems kind of unsatisfactory and tautological and weaselly to me.

Besides -- this whole exchange that I imagined in my head is skirting what I think is Greenwald's best point. In fact, I think Greenwald's argument that Sam Harris's incendiary remarks about Islam encourage individual vigilantism against Muslims is somewhat tenuous and hard to definitively link. (Hell, it's hard  to tell if anti-Muslim sentiment is even a motive or not sometimes, like in the UNCCH case. A lot of it appeared like a personal dispute and the guy seemed sorta unhinged). 

I think it's the weaker argument because the effects of vigilantism (and I guess you could call small-scale terrorist attacks a form of vigilantism) on the world is dwarfed by the effects of militarism on the world. And I'd argue that Harris's productive output, which has largely coincided with the post-9/11 years, have served the interest of justifying and providing ideological cover for the recent militaristic conquests that the US has undertaken in the Muslim world (Iraq, Afghanistan, Pakistan, Yemen, Somalia, Libya, Syria). 

But atheists don't kill for their beliefs, right? I disagree actually. It's true, in the sense that atheists don't kill over religious beliefs, having none. But religious beliefs are far from the only kind. And far from the only dangerous kind. And yes, we're not saying that individual atheists killing people in vigilante style attacks is some kind of pattern that jumps out. But Western atheists seem to be part of  factions within their countries that were and are supportive of aggressive actions in the Middle East. Cheered on by their belief that Islam is the great evil of our time. They don't have to do any killing for their belief -- their government does it for them. Doesn't mean blood isn't on their hands any less.

I remember Sam Harris and Chris Hitchens were big proponents of the Iraq War -- just a couple examples of many atheists who made up part of this war's popular support. And how many innocent Iraqis were killed for *their* beliefs? (Namely, the beliefs that 1) Saddam had WMDs, 2) Iraq had something to do with Al Qaeda, 3) Invading Iraq was a humanitarian course of action). While not religious, were these beliefs any less wrong? Any less pernicious?

I've typed way more than I meant to, but my point is, I just don't think Western atheists (particularly I mean the type that have a particular and abiding hatred of Islam) come out clean in all this. While holding no religious beliefs, they do hold beliefs that can motivate terrible violence. While not perpetrating this violence individually, the real situation could actually be understood to be much worse -- their beliefs are reflected in the actions of a gigantic, lethal, and cruel State military machine. So, while an agnostic/atheist/religiously confused person myself,  I do have ill regard for some of these 'New Atheist' prophets who use atheism as a cover for pushing hawkish beliefs.

 Basically Sam argues that Islam is really (really) bad, and yet when Greenwald points out how Sam is going too far, then somehow he's misrepresenting him...

I guess only the most die hard SH's fans are trying to argue this ("he can do no wrong" type of mentality) Thanks for a very thoughtful reply. I disagree, but I know I don't have the time to offer an equally well thought out response (complete with sources and references).

At a high level, you have to be able to criticize bad ideas. To pull from an analogy that Harris himself uses: Glenn Greenwald regularly criticizes US foreign policy. One could argue that he endangers American lives in doing so, especially as the focus of attention is often on casualties of war, torture, etc. It's not fair or productive to accuse Glenn Greenwald of inciting violence against Americans, unless he is actually recommending that people kill Americans.

Sam is criticizing ideas, and he is being honest about what proportion of the Muslim world subscribes to those ideas. I've looked into the research he cites, and in my view, it is all very sound. You accuse him of cherry picking, which is another way of saying he's gone out of his way to misrepresent the data. This is a very strong accusation, and I think you're probably wrong. I'd be happy to look at conflicting evidence if you have it on hand, but I think it will be extremely hard to marshall a strong case against the notion that certain really bad ideas (death for apostates, stoning of adulterers, violence against cartoonists...) are widely accepted and adhered to across much of the Muslim world. This is across continents and hemispheres, ethnic backgrounds, social classes, etc. Islam is the common thread.

Again, to understand the outrage of Harris and his readership at the conduct of Greenwald, you really need to dig into the details of how Greenwald has characterized Harris' views, and how he's engaged him (or not) in discussion. His behavior is very much worthy of derision, and it's only made worse by the fact that the group that is most likely to be galvanized by his words are people who enthusiastically support things like the murder of cartoonists.

Your assertion that Muslims are less safe as a result of critics like Harris is weak. The greatest victims of Muslim violence are other Muslims. Muslims have the most to gain from an influential Sam Harris. Also, I don't think  Harris supports military intervention in the Middle East in the way you are imagining. I think Hitchens was the only vocal proponent of the Iraq War, among that group of famous 'new athiests'. Perhaps there are other influential atheists who support military engagements that you disagree with, but I don't think it's particularly relevant either way, as I highly doubt that athiests in general are more likely to be hawkish or violent than other people. In fact I'm almost certain the opposite is true. 
 &gt; At a high level, you have to be able to criticize bad ideas. To pull from an analogy that Harris himself uses: Glenn Greenwald regularly criticizes US foreign policy. One could argue that he endangers American lives in doing so, especially as the focus of attention is often on casualties of war, torture, etc. It's not fair or productive to accuse Glenn Greenwald of inciting violence against Americans, unless he is actually recommending that people kill Americans.

Yeah, I mean, personally, I would argue that using torture, killing civilians, and perpetrating war crimes invite their own reciprocal acts from the affected population. If someone reports on, discloses, or criticizes these actions, the fault does not ultimately lie with them if there is reprisal. The fault lies with who committed these acts.

If you're saying that Greenwald is fine if he criticizes what he perceives as America's bad ideas, as long as he stops short of calling for violence, then what is the flap all about? Shouldn't Greenwald also be able to criticize what he perceives as Harris's bad ideas, as long as he stops short of calling for violence? I don't believe Greenwald has called for jihad against Harris, verbal castigation sure, but no violence. So what's all the fuss then? Why is Harris accusing Greenwald of making him less safe?

&gt;Sam is criticizing ideas, and he is being honest about what proportion of the Muslim world subscribes to those ideas. I've looked into the research he cites, and in my view, it is all very sound. You accuse him of cherry picking, which is another way of saying he's gone out of his way to misrepresent the data. This is a very strong accusation, and I think you're probably wrong. I'd be happy to look at conflicting evidence if you have it on hand, but I think it will be extremely hard to marshall a strong case against the notion that certain really bad ideas (death for apostates, stoning of adulterers, violence against cartoonists...) are widely accepted and adhered to across much of the Muslim world. This is across continents and hemispheres, ethnic backgrounds, social classes, etc. Islam is the common thread.

I wasn't necessarily accusing Sam of cherry picking himself. I think the Pew study he is citing is itself cherry picked. The way they present the data is such that the viewer is easily misled. And they don't survey every Muslim country, often leaving out those in which the Muslims are very moderate. The most confusing part of their data: the percentages of people who say "stone" or "death" for adultery and leaving Islam, respectively, are *only among the percentage of respondents who favor Sharia law*. So, for an [example](http://www.pewforum.org/2013/04/30/the-worlds-muslims-religion-politics-society-beliefs-about-sharia/), let's take Indonesia, the country with the highest Muslim population. 18% favor death for leaving Islam, and 72% favor Sharia. So, if we extrapolate, just under **13%** of Indonesian Muslims, or [27m/205m](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Islam_by_country) people have this view. For Pakistan it's a bit grimmer, with 64% of total population (if we extrapolate) holding this view (121m/189m). The next largest Muslim population, India, with 177m Muslims, isn't even in their poll! But one would probably expect low support, since India's not a theocracy. So, quite possible that not including countries like India is going to skew their numbers upward. For Bangladesh, total percentage is 36%, meaning 54m/149m. And so on and so on. For the 20 countries in the poll, which account for 52% of the world's Muslims, the total percentage of people who say Sharia + execute apostates is actually only 19%. Is that higher, or lower than you'd think from listening to Sam Harris? 

Although execution for apostates is a very awful belief that totally goes against freedom of conscience, it's only 19% (in the half of the Muslim world they surveyed, if we extrapolate from the poll). Plus despite it having some support, I couldn't find any evidence that ex-Muslims are in fact  executed for apostasy in any large numbers. The incidence appears to be quite rare. Interestingly, in Pakistan, which has high popular support for Sharia apostasy executions, there is no apostasy law in effect. And in fact, it seems in many Islamic societies that do have apostasy laws, for those rare people who are actually sentenced as apostates, the death sentence is commonly [commuted to imprisonment](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Apostasy_in_Islam).  Harris distorts the truth by holding up these cherry picked polling numbers, instead of the reality of the situation, which you'd think was 1000x worse from listening to him. 

Contrariwise, I'm sure we can find lots of secular but nonetheless terrible and backward beliefs held by Americans in at least that proportion (&gt;19%), that have resulted in very staggering amounts death and suffering:

[Popular support, at time of launch, for  illegal 2003 - ? Iraq War which has killed hundreds of thousands of civilians and was based on lies](http://www.gallup.com/poll/8038/seventytwo-percent-americans-support-war-against-iraq.aspx) 72%

[ Popular support for illegal airstrikes against Libya in 2011 which killed thousands of civilians, crippled infrastructure](http://www.huffingtonpost.com/2011/03/28/libya-poll-us-public_n_841661.html) 47%

[People who still believe possession of a 'scary' plant warrants being placed in a cage](http://www.people-press.org/2014/04/02/americas-new-drug-policy-landscape/) 42%

[Proportion who believe torture (including forced rectal feeding) of suspects by the CIA, a strategy known not to produce trustworthy intel, was justified - this poll was taken after the Senate report's summary findings were released](http://www.people-press.org/2014/12/15/about-half-see-cia-interrogation-methods-as-justified/) 51%

Relevant - [Sam Harris - in defense of torture](http://www.huffingtonpost.com/sam-harris/in-defense-of-torture_b_8993.html)

Don't you think it's time Americans cleaned up their own act, instead of lobbing criticisms at nations they know virtually nothing about?

-------- 

[CONTINUED](https://www.reddit.com/r/IAmA/comments/2wwdep/we_are_edward_snowden_laura_poitras_and_glenn/cowkewc) &gt;Again, to understand the outrage of Harris and his readership at the conduct of Greenwald, you really need to dig into the details of how Greenwald has characterized Harris' views, and how he's engaged him (or not) in discussion. His behavior is very much worthy of derision, and it's only made worse by the fact that the group that is most likely to be galvanized by his words are people who enthusiastically support things like the murder of cartoonists.

I dispute this actually. Greenwald's primary readership is the Anglophone liberal left and civil libertarians. Not Muslim extremists. I doubt very much that someone would be incited to undertake or advocate for violent action after reading him.

&gt;Your assertion that Muslims are less safe as a result of critics like Harris is weak. The greatest victims of Muslim violence are other Muslims. Muslims have the most to gain from an influential Sam Harris. Also, I don't think Harris supports military intervention in the Middle East in the way you are imagining. I think Hitchens was the only vocal proponent of the Iraq War, among that group of famous 'new athiests'. Perhaps there are other influential atheists who support military engagements that you disagree with, but I don't think it's particularly relevant either way, as I highly doubt that athiests in general are more likely to be hawkish or violent than other people. In fact I'm almost certain the opposite is true. 

I certainly don't want to paint all atheists with the same brush here. Definitely a lot of atheists are peaceniks. But my concern is that the likes of Harris are trying to bring the new crop of young atheists into the fold of hawkishness and draconian policies toward Muslims.

To be clear, Harris was definitely not enthusiastic for Iraq in the same calibre that Hitch was (Hitch was turned up to 11 on this).  But I do believe SH is, on the whole, a supporter of military intervention in the Middle East. The only real criticisms he seems to level are ones that deal with our botched strategies there. I'm sure there are plenty of countries he'd love to bomb though. After all, per SH, [It is time we admitted that we are not at war with terrorism. We are at war with Islam.](http://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2004/dec/1/20041201-090801-2582r/)

And while Muslim-on-Muslim violence is certainly the bulk of the fighting, I would argue that the US has its hand in a great deal of it. The Iran-Iraq War is one of the best examples, where the US armed and funded Saddam to go to war with Iran -- including giving him chemical weapons. The death toll was staggering. I'd argue that the most recent Iraq invasion and subsequent propping up of a puppet regime there underlies the outbreak of sectarian violence that still grips the region. Same thing applies to the covert funding of Islamic rebels in Syria to try and topple Assad. 

One final note, as you said in the beginning, "you have to be able to criticize bad ideas" and I agree with that. Harris has criticized what he perceives as bad ideas in Islam (partly dishonestly I contend) and Greenwald has criticized what he perceives as bad ideas in what Harris writes (it's quite likely that he's been partly dishonest in doing so also). What really differentiates the two for me, though, is that Harris seems to offer policy prescriptions supplemented with his criticisms, such as arguing for [Racial Profiling](http://www.samharris.org/blog/item/in-defense-of-profiling) -- policies that abridge peoples' freedoms, and could easily be understood to be a form of State violence. 

Moreover, he uses his criticism and fearmongering of Islam to underpin his pro-interventionism stance:

&gt;*"It appears that one of the most urgent tasks we now face in the developed world is to find some way of facilitating the emergence of civil societies everywhere else. Whether such societies have to be democratic is not at all clear. ... It seems all but certain that some form of benign dictatorship will generally be necessary to bridge the gap. But benignity is the key-- and* **if it cannot emerge from within a state, it must be imposed from without. The means of such imposition are necessarily crude: they amount to economic isolation, military intervention (whether open or covert), or some combination of both.** *While this may seem an exceedingly arrogant doctrine to espouse, it appears we have no alternatives. We cannot wait for weapons of mass destruction to dribble out of the former Soviet Union to pick only one horrible possibility and into the hands of fanatics."*

&gt;[The End of Faith](https://books.google.com/books?id=V1NXG1ob-WcC&amp;pg=PA151)

I just don't see Greenwald making those kinds of violent pronouncements accompanying his criticisms. &gt; If you're saying that Greenwald is fine if he criticizes what he perceives as America's bad ideas, as long as he stops short of calling for violence, then what is the flap all about?

Yes that's what I'm saying--glad we agree there. The problem is that Greenwald **purposefully** and significantly misrepresents Harris' views. Criticizing (or 'disrespecting') Islam publicly is already dangerous enough. It is made even more dangerous when someone like Greenwald starts using words like racist and genocidal to describe Harris.

No the data are not misleading. The poll covers most Muslim countries, and the results are not confusing. Yes, there are a couple questions that are only asked of respondents who answer *yes* to subscribing to Sharia law, and you are correct to multiply those two percentages together to get a total view. The results are very gross. Go here if you want to see the numbers I've looked at:

https://whyevolutionistrue.wordpress.com/2014/10/04/maher-harris-kristof-steele-and-affleck-squabble-about-islam/

A quote from that site:
"Good for liberal Indonesia and Malaysia: only 35% of Muslims in the former state, and 52% of Muslims in the latter, think that adulterers should be stoned (Ive multipled the proportion of Muslims believing in sharia law by the proportion of those who favor stoning)!  Every Muslim country is strongly anti-gay and anti-women (look at the wives should obey their husbands statistics)."

Thus, I wholeheartedly disagree with your contention that Harris has been dishonest in his treatment of Islam and its effects on the beliefs of its adherents. Sam Harris is spot on here.

Your reference to Americans having bad beliefs entirely misses the point, and underscores how Harris' thesis is commonly misunderstood. He is not simply saying "here's a group of people that believe bad things". He's pointing out that:

1) There is a direct link between Islam (the teachings, the holy literature, the life of the prophet) and Muslim belief. 

2) There is a direct link between belief and actions, social pressures, etc.

&gt; Don't you think it's time Americans cleaned up their own act, instead of lobbing criticisms at nations they know virtually nothing about?

No, that is absurd. Harris is not responsible for what is wrong with America, and there's nothing to preclude him from criticizing bad ideas where he finds them.

&gt; But my concern is that the likes of Harris are trying to bring the new crop of young atheists into the fold of hawkishness and draconian policies toward Muslims.

Yes, you alluded to this previously. I don't think you are right. Sam is a reasonable guy. The term 'hawk' is not at all appropriate.

&gt; After all, per SH, It is time we admitted that we are not at war with terrorism. We are at war with Islam.

Yes... you can't be at war with 'terrorism'. You can (metaphorically, not necessarily literally) be at war with a set of bad ideas that beget bad actions.

I largely agree with your assessment of US foreign policy in the Middle East, but it's a bit beside the point. Even in the absence of undue Western influence, Islam would be terribly problematic for those living under its authority.

I largely disagree with your commentary on Harris' comments about racial profiling, but it's not germane to the discussion, so moving on...

&gt; Moreover, he uses his criticism and fearmongering of Islam to underpin his pro-interventionism stance:

No he doesn't. He is simply saying is that it's categorically more scary for a theocratic Islamic nation to have nukes than for an actor like Russia, because the Islamists actually believe that their life here on earth doesn't matter, and that to kill infidels or die trying is the best way to get to heaven. He's not saying nuke the middle east.

I very much appreciate the thought that you've put into your responses, even though it seems that we are still in pretty stark disagreement. I imagine you'd be a good person to chat with in person, but the online back-and-fourth is too time-consuming for me at this point, so I'm going to hold off here. You can have the last word if you'd like. Cheers! Sam Harris is - I'm sorry - a moron. However, Mr. Greenwald is definitely a part of that particular variety of the white liberal Left which defines itself only by opposition to US imperialism - hello Noam Chomsky! - and which is as inconsistent in its politics and positions as the US foreign policy itself is. And this particular variety of the white Left takes a stance on Islamic revival and Islamism which is characterized solely by its opposition to US imperialism. This simplistic and Western-centric narrative of power is oftentimes very different from the more nuanced analysis of Islamism as right-wing reactionary movement which comes from MENA social democratic / socialist / communist / humanist and feminist groups - a.k.a. the people who are preferentially murdered by the "anti-imperalist" Islamists. Unfortunately, it is particularly MENA progressives whose voices are continuously drowned in the white privilege of the pro-Islamist liberal left.

In opposite to stupid Harris, Maryam Namazie and all the non-white atheists and secularists are the real heroes of the atheist movement:
http://freethoughtblogs.com/maryamnamazie/2015/02/05/we-are-being-slaughtered-by-your-secondary-enemy/
 There is a view that what has been revealed in the 'Snowden files' isn't all that surprising or shocking - rather it has just confirmed what many suspected.

- Is there anything really mind-blowing still to come that would put the view above to rest?

- To Mr Snowden - what would you say to those who claim you could be, perhaps unknown to yourself, a 'limited hangout'?

Thank you for your time. Laura Poitras- Loved the film. Saw it when it came to a theatre in a nearby town. Any hints on when it may be available on BluRay? I'll be recording this on my DVR this evening, but would still love to own a copy.

Laura Poitras, Edward Snowden, and Glenn Greenwald - Thank you all for the work on the film and thank you Mr. Snowden for coming forward! Thanks. The film will be out on DVD sometime in the summer, but we're still working on the exact date.  By DVD I hope you meant Blu-Ray or specifically digital download. The current generation in college doesn't buy disk materials anymore. Your documentary is also in HD, putting on something with such low resolution as DVD would greatly shame it.

I would go further to say that you shouldn't support DVD and Blu-Ray because of their non-free DRM technologies. I really loved Citizenfour.  I am greatly anticipating your next film. ...People still buy DVDs? CitizenFour is also officially available for free on Cryptome. Since the webpage is down, I've created two webseed-based magnet links:

HD-Version: magnet:?xt=urn:btih:79cb25b845504834513c91e0dbeba123a30b2c68&amp;dn=Citizenfour-HD.7z&amp;tr=udp%3A%2F%2Ftracker.openbittorrent.com%3A80&amp;tr=udp%3A%2F%2Fopen.demonii.com%3A1337&amp;ws=http%3A%2F%2Fcryptome.org%2FCitizenfour-HD.7z

SD-Version: magnet:?xt=urn:btih:d928113ebfb86bb36ad9d64a0c3248baba48ecd9&amp;dn=Citizenfour.7z&amp;tr=udp%3A%2F%2Ftracker.openbittorrent.com%3A80&amp;tr=udp%3A%2F%2Fopen.demonii.com%3A1337&amp;ws=http%3A%2F%2Fcryptome.org%2FCitizenfour.7z

But, of course, buy it on DVD to support the creators! This is probably more so for Glenn, but I'm interested in everyone's input on this:

It's pretty apparent that American Journalism has a serious issue with quality - more and more you see mainstream media refering to Twitter and other social networks for information, regurgitating the same statements without fact checking them, and all-in-all trying to just beat each other to the headline as the news cycle has sped up with the introduction of the Internet. Since 1995, confidence in media has declined, with a recent [Pew Poll](http://www.gallup.com/poll/171740/americans-confidence-news-media-remains-low.aspx) showing less than one quarter of Americans have any great deal of confidence in our news sources. What recommendations or advice do you have for the everyday American to help force a paradigm shift in news journalism? Do you believe there is any way everyday citizens can put pressure on the industry to make fundamental changes to the way they approach reporting?

Thank you for your time! Much respect for all of you!  Perhaps a newspaper owned by a public group? Like the way the green bay packers are owned.  Here's the number 1 suggestion: Stop Watching.

TV programs and networks are supported by viewer revenue, and that kind of feedback means they tend to produce whatever content grabs the most eyes.  People used to believe that producing quality, unbiased news was the best way to attract viewers to these programs.  Not any more.

Additionally, there's more than a little manipulation of opinion going on... not necessarily all at the government level, too.  The people who own the programs and networks have a say in what gets talked about... they know the media is the key to control of public opinion.

Stop watching garbage programs.  Use the internet, printed media, everything available and Make. Up. Your. Own. Mind.


 Do you guys feel President Obama has made the right moves regarding policy since the revelations became public? And can we take what he says seriously at this point? (A new whistleblower can always blow this wide open in the next few years) Pretty sure Obama has been pretty shitty when it comes to whistleblowing. Not what I hoped to see, but I guess it figures. He's probably not the one pulling those strings. I honestly wouldn't be surprised at this point if we were to find out that the NSA's in charge. 

He seemed to do a pretty sharp turnabout on whistleblowers and privacy. Maybe someone spoke with him regarding record of previous indiscretions or made some other threat.  Or maybe he found out there's an actual reason the NSA is being run the way it is. There is absolutely no reason that would justify the current actions of either the nsa or tsa. Really? I can think of a few possibilities. Enlighten me. Just off the top of my head: Al Qaeda got ahold of a sample of the Ebola virus some time before September 11th. They've had research cells experimenting with weaponizing it ever since. Intel suggests that the recent outbreak in Africa was a test run, possibly deployed with the help of Boko Haram, but there's no solid evidence. For all they know, some biological suicide bomber with a more infectious strain of the virus could simply stroll into a major city on any day at any time. If that were the case, there would be no need to keep that information  secret from the public, even without strong evidence. At any rate, that seems like a scenario in which you'd want to empower the CDC, rather than the NSA.

The reality of it is not that the NSA is necessary because there is an imminent threat to the U.S.A. or its population, which cannot be countered without spying on every person alive. Neither is it the case that Obama, Keith Alexander or any other politician or bureaucrat involved is a movie villain. The NSA is probably not a rogue organization in the sense of being beyond the control of the executive or congress (although it can be considered rogue with respect to the people and the laws). The reality is far more prosaic: the amount of intelligence collected by the N.S.A. is believed by those in power to make their lives easier, to be one more tool in their toolbelt. Sure, it's a exceedingly powerful and dangerous tool - they will think - a tool they wouldn't want others to have, but since it is them and not others that have that power, why would they discard it so readily? Since it might be the case that sometime in the future they need it. With that thinking, they keep in place the most terrifying surveillance apparatus ever constructed. Because it is human nature to loathe to restrict one's own power. &gt; If that were the case, there would be no need to keep that information secret from the public, even without strong evidence.

You sure about that? Let's assume the terror cells with the Ebola aren't idiots. They know that their home countries are just as vulnerable -- if not more so -- to that kind of wide spectrum attack. So ideally, they'd need to let it loose in circumstances where the target country is locked down from international travel so it doesn't spread out of control worldwide.

Now, let's say the government did go public with this information. Imagine the response. No, cancel that, you don't have to -- we just saw how everyone reacted to the "natural" outbreak in Africa going on right now. What was the American public's first response? Panic. Xenophobia. Calls to immediately secure the borders and clamp down on international travel... 

... creating, in other words, the perfect circumstances for a biological attack in the first place.

Hell, the terror cells might not even *need* to release the virus. At the end of the day, the damage the panic alone might do to the economy might accomplish their objectives for them. So maybe we're dealing with circumstances where what the American public knows could hurt them.

&gt; At any rate, that seems like a scenario in which you'd want to empower the CDC, rather than the NSA.

Depending on the scale and the nature of the attack, it might already be too late by the time the CDC gets involved. So I could see the fallback plan being to monitor everything they possibly can and hope they get lucky -- that some piece of data, somewhere, will lead them to the threat, and they can nip in the bud before they wind up with millions dead. For all we know, things could be that bad. &gt; Neither is it the case that Obama, Keith Alexander or any other politician or bureaucrat involved is a movie villain.

And with that, you've pretty much gone beyond the average poster on this subject (at least in my experience). So yeah. Well done and all that.

&gt; Sure, it's a exceedingly powerful and dangerous tool - they will think - a tool they wouldn't want others to have, but since it is them and not others that have that power, why would they discard it so readily? Since it might be the case that sometime in the future they need it.

Here's the hell of the thing, though... what if they're right? You honestly think that surrendering all of your civil liberties is worth it in the off chance there's a terrorist attack?  The attack could be imminent and I still don't think it'd be worth it.

In the name of terrorism, law enforcement is free to monitor your email, listen to your telephone calls, track your whereabouts, enter your home, detain you indefinitely, monitor your friends and family, etc.

"Terrorism" is a broad and blanket statement.  Snowden, himself, is charged with violation of the espionage act.  This is despite the fact that he's sought no personal gain from the dissemination of such information and there is no evidence that he's sharing secrets with another government.

The Boston Bombings is a great example of how the Patriot Act has overreached and outright ignores the rights of individuals.  Just think about this for a second.  A few bombs went off and immediately the city went into lockdown for 2 days.  If you were out after curfew you were a suspect, as was the case for numerous people, unrelated to the incident, who were held at gunpoint in the streets of a major American city by armed forces.  There were many many instances of unlawful entry into private residences.  That sounds fine when looking for a terrorist, right?  Well not when that search is spread over a 20 block radius and affects the rights and privacy of thousands of innocent people. &gt; You honestly think that surrendering all of your civil liberties is worth it in the off chance there's a terrorist attack? 

Actually, I'm not saying any of that. You asked for a scenario where the way the NSA is being run might be morally justifiable. I gave you one. You are too forgiving. Obama could easily fight the NSA and make it his pet cause. But he doesn't. That is his choice, and no one else's. How can anyone in our government "easily fight" the NSA if they have dirt on everyone in the government that they don't want leaked? By growing a pair and being willing to have their personal reputation completely destroyed for what they think is right.  There's very few people like Snowden in the world, even fewer if any in positions of power, unfortunately. I think you're overly optimistic about the nature of our government. 
You're assuming Obama ISN'T a puppet for the powers that be, and you're assuming that IF he did blow a whistle or two and actually try to solve the problem, he wouldn't end up just like JFK did.

[Not taking a stance on the JFK thing, I just don't believe our government is above killing one of our own to shut them up. The CIA has been known in the past to 'suicide' people.] Even if Obama *were* at risk of being murdered, it wouldn't matter. He is in a position where he has the most power and respect in the country. Plenty of men have sacrificed themselves for a greater good, and those sacrificies have included a lot worse things than a mere death by gunshot. And unless they're literally serial killers, the people would likely love them for it. &gt;He's probably not the one pulling those strings.

Exactly  &gt; the right moves

did you mean "the right movies"?
 i feel that obama has basically no say... Mr. Snowden, where are you getting your spending money from and what do you do all day? He earned like 200k a year when he was working for the NSA. Thanks guys for all your work. Especially Edward. How can we (the public) win?


Edit: I am from the UK if that makes a difference to the answer? Go to Westminster and bludgeon Theresa May with a hammer of you want to help. 

In all seriousness though, find out what your MPs views are on the snooper charter, find out when they're holding surgery and attend, make it clear to them exactly what your views are as one of their potential voters in person and in letters. Encourage likeminded friends and family to do the same, especially if they live in your constituency. Whatever little difference it makes is worth it.  I have already spoken on two occasions with my MP (who is quite high profile). He strongly opposes Snowden. "But the terrorists..." blah blah. Though the second time I was asking him to publicly thank Snowden for the information that led to that secret court finding GCHQs spying unlawful.  How about contacting the opposition candidates and letting them know your views? If enough people did it, they may decide to incorporate it into their election campaign.  fair point. you should check out my comment [here](https://www.reddit.com/r/IAmA/comments/2wwdep/we_are_edward_snowden_laura_poitras_and_glenn/couq33b) He's a guy who leaked information, not a sociopolitical mastermind. As in what services and technologies can help the public win. Is encryption enough? UK's NCA recently claimed the dark web and tor is now in their reach.  Ok yeah that makes more sense, sorry. If we can't defund and regulate FVEY/Russian spy agencies/etc, and fund independent developers of anonymizing/encrypting/anti-spyware software, we need to start counter spying and infiltrating dragnet spy agencies and releasing more info like Snowden did.  Otherwise, 1984 isn't so far from becoming reality.  We can't allow stockpiling of zero day exploits and the existence of a global spy state with extensive dragnet surveillance projects.  Did you get any negative comments from established Hollywood types pre- or post-Oscars? This thread just lost 4k upvotes in one hour, how strange?

Edit: and now another 4k I've checked it a few times after they were live (remembering the recent reddit post about who will get more upvotes than Obama's AMA, I went and compared the numbers out of curiosity). It was at 10k earlier, then I steadily saw it drop, but the upvote still states 95-96%. I know there is something about vote fluctuation on hot/new topics, but it does seem peculiar.  The fluctuation equation works in real time, doesn't it? This was literally in route to be one of the best AMA at one point. Who would even down vote this monumental AMA?  NSA. I think Reddit uses a voting logarithm that lowers the number of upvotes and downvotes to "normalize" it with other top posts. This may be done to 1) make sure slightly older material leaves the front page, as the front page is where posts rack up way more upvotes than anywhere else and 2) make sure that material from 2009 and 2015 don't have a wide variation in score. It's unfair (in Reddit's view) that a post from 2009 when there was x amount of subscribers now has to go against a post from 2015 that has 2x amount of subscribers, for instance.

Edit: link for some evidence made by another user http://www.reddit.com/r/theoryofreddit/comments/2qfs27/_/ No that couldn't be it, it must be the NSA trying to silence their greatest enemy! [Welcome](http://www.theguardian.com/technology/2011/mar/17/us-spy-operation-social-networks) to [Reddit](http://www.storyleak.com/us-military-caught-social-media-running-mass-propaganda-accounts/). Came here to say something really weird happen with this post. I was reading through it and had to leave my computer for about an hour, came back and it's no where to be found on the front page. Scrolled through a bunch of pages and it's nowhere. Had to come to the actual sub to find it. Super sketch Came here because I noticed the same thing. I don't know that I've ever seen a post lose upvotes. Usually they just slow down in how quickly they're gained. It happens all the time to posts that get *huge* numbers of upvotes regardless of content. Watch the vote totals on some ginormously popular post next time you catch one near the beginning; it usually seems to hit around 7,000 or so before dropping back down. If tons of people upvote it it'll eventually creep up again, though. I believe it happens when a post gets a TONNE of upvotes at the beginning of the posts life. Two instances which I remember is the TIFU Jenny thingy, it garnered over 7000 points in the opening minutes but eventually over time it reduced whilst the upvote percentage stayed the same.
Also on a /r/leagueoflegends post straight after a game, in a few minutes the post got 10000 points, but then it reduced down by a lot soon after.
 shouldn't we like...report that? I came here to say the same thing, when I checked it was on it's way to 11.000 upvotes. Sure there's vote fuzzing, but this is just ridiculous. There's no way that many votes got lost. Normal and common thing that happens to every massively upvoted thread, /r/theoryofreddit has commented on this effect before and speculated that it's put into place because otherwise /all/top would only have newer posts (owing to more users so more total upvotes even when the ratio of ups to downs is the same). Maybe the NSA has 5k of fake accounts in their virtual server farms.  A pity we cannot trace those who downvoted. Dear Reddit/Mods/Admins etc. can you please look into what happened to this thread? I mean come on, it was on its way to 11k votes. If 5000 accounts astroturf downvoted this, it would say "50% upvoted".
 Unless they did it by initially upvoting, and then withdrawing the vote. Which is highly unusual behaviour in and of itself.

I would hypothesise that the karma score shown while a large post is live / popular isn't necessarily realistic, but indicative of the traffic it experiences  and slowly drops due to a decrease in commenting and traffic.

I've talked to some others who report having seen this kind of behaviour on other postings, such as reddit blog posts.

We may see an official answer. We may not. 4342 at the time of this posting.  I think it was 4.7k last time I looked, but I didn't take a note. Que? https://imgur.com/ZHwr60m (at one point it was around 11,000) then https://imgur.com/KUDXI4T it briefly went back above 7000 and now its back down to 4343 Interesting. I opened a link to this particular thread in a new tab, with the original still in its original (older) tab. I also upvoted, so there should be one more upvote in the new tab, but oddly enpough there are three fewer!
Original (older) tab: 4,781 points (95% upvoted)
Newer tab : 4,778 points (95% upvoted) I believe that's the vote fuzzing in action it stops bots knowing whether their spam voting is working, so you'll see a fluctuation of a few votes up or down on each refresh. But that doesn't explain why the thread lost votes in chunks of 4000. I mean, reddit is mostly in support of Snowden. If you were to take the conspiracy theory route, wouldn't there be better places for the NSA to do this?  This is the best place to do it. I didn't even know this was going on until I saw it on /r/hackernews. Vote fuzzing probably accounts for some of that. Half the total votes is not something that can be described as "fuzzing". This happens all the time on really wildly popular posts. Watch the vote totals on one the next time you get a chance. They don't actually shift in position on the front page/on the subreddit they're in, but the upvote count will drop to 4,000ish after a little while and then creep back up again -- as far as I've noticed, the number is all that changes, so it's just vote fuzzing. I said "some". Can you explain a bit more about how Vote fuzzing works? It was us Jews.  We're afraid if you know too much we're going to have to kill more French babies to distract you.

Oh no wait, that's just how reddit works.  Have you ever seen a thread with 10k link karma?  No?  That's because reddit keeps itself in check. Now its lost another 4k votes and yes I've seen threads with 10k link karma, they're on the Top threads section of reddit. I'm not sure what you being Jewish has to do with anything though. http://www.reddit.com/r/TheoryOfReddit/comments/2wprt7/vote_fuzzing_and_the_comcast_post_on_rcirclejerk/

I think the NSA is also downvoting a comcast post on /r/circlejerk 
it was at 11k points! now it's only 5k! 

.....

It's just how Reddit works Ed: Why are you not on Twitter? I would imagine it's the same reason he doesn't use a smartphone and doesn't use something like Gmail. It's insecure and the NSA is probably keeping close tabs on it. Smartphone and Gmail have aspects you'd want to keep private.  Twitter is almost exclusively used for putting information out into the public.  It would be almost exactly like saying he wouldn't use reddit because it isn't secure. I doubt he uses reddit very often. This AMA was probably set up in advance with precautions taken. If you've seen CITIZENFOUR, you know he is rightfully very paranoid about online interactions he has. If this was set up in advance then reddit screwed up pretty hard I don't mean necessarily by reddit. But by Glenn and Ed.  If this AMA was advertised well ahead of time, the U.S. government may have wanted to take action concerning it. Maybe this way, Edward can answer questions and be gone from the Internet before anyone's the wiser? Well, on the official IAmA phone app, I can only see 2 answers, so it looks like this thread is dead. I cannot remember that this happened before on any other AMA. The web app works ok. Maybe because he was on two different accounts? The app is shit BTW.  Remember,  we had 4 accounts answering.  All limited. While reading Greenwald's book, I many times found myself thinking "these guys are way too paranoid" at the same time that I was thinking "I would never take any of these risks."

Maybe Snowden is overly cautious, but he clearly knows a lot more about the issue than I do. You don't have to be paranoid. But it probably helps. He has been replying from multiple accounts and his replies were being blocked and limited. It doesn't seem like it was very well setup. The admins didn't even know that his account was his.  Seems like it was a mis-communication on the part of Laura or Glenn. Stuff happens. Still, I'm sure he was using a VPN and the like at the very least.  Yeah I'm sure he's very protected.  It's not about whether he wants the information going out over Twitter to be private.  Twitter is only used for making information public.  That is its function.

It's about the implications of connecting to a service like twitter, in order to send that information.  

You know all those revelations about how the NSA has wormed its way into nearly every system that runs on electrons, in order to know everything about what's happening everywhere?  Snowden is being actively hunted by those guys.  If there's a thing he uses that they can bug, it's been bugged. Yeah cool, smartphone and Google mail services does contain data that you would want to keep private, but problem is that, as you should know, NSA and GCHQ have direct access to all of the big mail providers, search engines, social networks.
So yeah it boils down to that that you can't trust not even Google or Dropbox and anything in the cloud because they, NSA and GCHQ, do have access to all of that.

Also if you really share some secret data and are using gmail or any of other wiretaped services for writing and sending those emails, all of your emails get stored in big NSA data keeping facility in Utah, which capacity is calculated to be around YottaByte, which stands for unit which is equal 1 Trillion of Terabytes.
So basically most of todays encrypted email will be broken in few years, everything that doesn't use PFS is in problem because in few years when guys from NSA brake the keys, they could retroactively read all emails which have been encrypted with that key in the past.

So yeah the main problem now is that we need to include Perfect Forward Secrecy in every encryption system we are using or we all get screwed.
You have included support for EC in new modern version of GPG but many people are still using only clasical GPG2 builds :) &gt; It would be almost exactly like saying he wouldn't use reddit because it isn't secure.  

Which is probably why they all chose a specific time and place to do the AMA. Twitter is something you need to update constantly for max visibility. Plus it doesn't have the kind of Q&amp;A format with a quality control system like reddit's voting system.  

Between Twitter and Reddit, I'd go with Reddit for a Q&amp;A session.

 Surely if he's behind 7 proxies he would be okay They don't track devices only with IPs.  I think that Ed Snowden, as he has been working as an Linux System Admin, knows enough to turn off the JavaScript and cookies and to rewrite headers when he does use Web. Yeah Etag can be spoofed :) What is privacy has to do with twitter? I thought the whole purpose of that thing is to shout staff loudly at millions of people. Twitter keeps records and logs with IPs and such. It doesn't hurt to be overly cautious. Is there any real mystery as to his whereabouts though? No. But being cautious on the web isn't a habit you just stop. And it's not bad to be overly cautious when you're literally an enemy of the State. He could use Tor... Why not still operate it as a voice, and just not plan on using it for anything requiring secure communications? So... things he would make public by broadcasting them to everybody following him on twitter would be discovered by the NSA?

 &gt; It's insecure 

It's public? I mean...that's the point of Twitter right?  I believe it's a personal choice he made because he doesn't want to attract attention to himself and his personal life, rather he wants the attention to be placed on the revelations from the documents he released.  A twitter account doesn't *have* to be instagrams of your breakfast and "#TBT to when I bought that big toblerone at the store last week". He could use it to further his agenda instead. I do not want attention, AMA. What, because you don't want to be the center of attention, you are also never allowed to answer any questions? That's absurd.  Why is the background photoshopped out? Because he doesnt like being followed :D Yeah, seriously! Why AREN'T you on Twitter? You don't think he is on Twitter?? The proper question is "why don't you reveal your Twitter handle? The question is its own answer. :-) Yeah following oprah and howie mandel should never be known to the public  He should at least have Instagram so the media can use a different picture of him for a change. he's a lurker man! Twitter/Facebook is the NSA go to tool.  number one time-suck Ad: Why are you a shitty Gawker journalist? They could track him? You think the U.S. has no idea where he is right now? He's not in hiding, he just can't leave Russia. Well I am guessing that if they did have an idea of his whereabouts, wouldn't they do something? What would they do? The U.S. is not going to declare war on Russia to take him back, and Russia's happy to have him as long as his existence is pissing off the U.S. That's essentially the whole reason why he's there and can't leave.

You're underestimating the scope and power of the CIA to track whoever they want around the world and overestimating the U.S.'s power to extradite people. This just made me realize Twitter is one of the easiest do-it-yourself trackers.  Laura or someone else could handle the account though Deffenitly, but Snowdown himself couldn't right? Please Ed, we really want you on Twitter. You wanted to participate in the debate you initiated. A lot of interesting discussions are happening on Twitter and it would be amazing to get your input! "interesting discussions" all in 140 characters? Why do I doubt this so much. &gt; "interesting discussions" all in 140 characters? Why do I doubt this so much.

-77 characters
 I am on twitter. Follow me [@EdwardSnowden](https://twitter.com/nsa) Nice try NSA. What are your biggest struggles while on the set of the show Game of Thrones? Very long hours. Because I love to sleep. I like sleeping more than most of my siblings. So staying awake and working long, long hours is very difficult.  Where in the world would you most like to visit? Ehm... I wanna go back to Iceland, but in the winter. It looks *so* beautiful.  Being a Belfast native, I'd just like to ask what it's like filming here?  FREEZING cold. But the people are lovely, so that makes up for it.  Have you had one of those "I can't stop laughing" moments on the GOT set? If so, what was so funny??? The one time was in series 3, episode 8, when I was supposed to laugh anyway - when Arya cracked up laughing at the news of her dead aunt - and I was watching funny videos on my phone, so I giggled endlessly, and they liked it, and so did the audience.  https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2Ja-VmdTPyQ what is your favorite guilty pleasure movie? Oh! JOHN TUCKER MUST DIE. It's like, about 3 girls that fancy this one guy, and it's so cheesy, but I can't stop watching it, ever. This is by far the most damning piece of evidence that you're a teenage British girl and that Victoria can perfectly voice a person through text. &lt;3 How's your left-handed swordplay coming along? MUCH better. I feel like I've improved a lot. I don't hit anyone, or myself, as much anymore. Still don't know if I could actually kill anyone though.

I could try? I volunteer as tribute. What one thing really pisses you off?  Patronizing adults, saying "*back in my day, blahblahblah"* because I'm sure they found it annoying in their day when adults said *back in MY day* - I don't know what it was like in your day, I was only born 17 years ago, so stop being patronizing about it! You'll understand when you're older.. 

^^^Bants.  At what point did you realize that Game of Thrones was becoming a huge deal? Season 3. At the season 3 premiere, we went to the Chinese Theater in Los Angeles, and stepping out of the car, with hundreds of people screaming my name, is when I realized that this show completely changed my life. It was very, very daunting - I found it quite scary - but it happened gradually, so I had time to get used to it.  Hi Maisie! If you were somehow elected as supreme queen of Westeros, what would be the first law you would pass as ruler? Ehm... oooh, if I was the queen of Westeros, the first rule... I would make everyone a Wildling, because I think their costumes are really cool!

It's probably the most shallow answer *ever*, but it's true.  Tommen would outlaw beets, so you're doing a bit better than him so far. Beets should be outlawed though!

ALL HAIL KING TOMMEN! House Schrute would like to have a word with you. Beets...bastards...battle of the blackwater Hi Maisie, thanks for doing this AMA. What's been the biggest change in your life since starting Game of Thrones? Also, which cast member is most like their character on the show? Being recognized in the street. I used to enjoy being quite anonymous, and now I have to kind of be aware that people know who I am sometimes.

Rory is quite similar to The Hound before breakfast, in that, if he hasn't eaten, he's kind of grumpy! haha! But I love 'im regardless.  I bet Rory eats every fookin chicken in the room for breakfast Yarp HOLY SHIT. he's...! that's...! WOAH. /u/Funslinger just had a life changing epiphany Hi Maisie! Just curious, do you get to keep Needle, or at least a replica of it for yourself?  Not yet! But I'm hoping to steal one in the future, so I can keep it for myself! Hello Maisie, has there been a scene so far in Game of Thrones that was particularly difficult?  There's actually a scene in the coming season... which was my most difficult scene to film. And I think fans are going to be really excited about it. More emotional than we've seen Arya in previous seasons. Oh, Mercy me. Heh. I take it this is in the books and we are all clueless.  Arya is Azor Ahai confirmed. Arya is Benjen  Wait, I'm confused. Just how hype should I be getting? **Valar Dohypis**

All men must hype More emotional than Nymeria, I don't believe it. Where the shit is that goddamn wolf anyway.

EDIT: yes, I've read the books, I know there are hints, but I want her back for real. :-) You have any souvenirs from the show at home?  I have sneakily removed some of the Faceless Man coins from set. And they have gone missing. And I have *NO* idea where they went! No one took them. You lie. Hi Maisie, Do you still have contact with/see/visit the wolf from book 1 of game of thrones (nymeria i think) ?
 I don't get to see the dogs anymore. But after my dog (who played Nymeria) finished playing Nymeria, she actually went on to play Shaggy Dog, and they dyed her. She was the best behaved dog out of all of them, so she ended up playing all the other wolves, even though she was mine originally.  Yeah. It's cool! &gt;She went on to play Shaggy Dog

&gt;She was the best behaved dog

Does not compute The dog's just a *really* good actor. I heard might even be in the running for an Oscar this year. What are the chances that this dog gets an Oscar before Leo? Dyre wolf of Wall street? Because she's a dye-r wolf.... right? Hi Maisie! I hear you're a dancer. What is your favorite type of dance and why?  I like jazz, because it doesn't matter what shape or size or length your legs are, you can use this dance to benefit you. Yeah. It's good for all shapes and sizes, I guess. You can modify it to benefit your body type. [Maisie Dancing](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zczwVZzmuQw)

Edit: Another (non-dancing) [favorite Maisie clip](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Q_wkhdoE-c0) with Arya Stark, Drogo &amp; The hound at tampa Bay Comics. And yes that is guiness that Drogo and the Hound are drinking...

Edit 2: [Maisie trying out Nintendo 8-bit](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bDOZbvE01Fk) Masie, when you came to Indianapolis, a guy in the con asked if you could read his name in the death prayer. After a bit of a laugh and doing it you said that was the strangest request? Has anything topped that yet? 

And could you put my screen name in one? A little bit of irony, i know. NO, that is still definitely the weirdest fan encounter that I've had.

I tell people about it all the time, it was so funny.  If you could meet any famous person or historical figure dead or alive who would it be and what would you do with them? Audrey Hepburn. And I don't know if I'd even want to do anything? I'd probably just want to sit and stare at her for a bit, because I think she's really cool.

I'd be starstruck. Embarrassing stuff, really. But it'd be worth it.  How do you managae to work school/college around your acting? Also, what is your favourite subject? My favourite subject when I was at school (apart from the usual drama and english) was mathematics, and it was really hard to juggle school &amp; work. And... I sort've... this is a tricky question - school took a bit of a back-seat, and I took my opportunities in live, and hopefully in the future, if I go down a different back, I can go back, get my grades, my certifications, and go and do something else if I want to. Elon Musk has said in interviews "If you have a good idea, go for it college will still be there."

I think the same applies to you. You've had (and do have!) incredible opportunities ahead of you and you can always go back to complete college. If you don't know the words to a song, do you improvise? All the time. I thought Taylor Swift's new song said "Something-something-Starbucks-lovers" when it actually said "I've got a long list of ex-lovers" and that was news to me. And I realized I'd been embarrassing myself for like 2 months! She doesn't say "starbucks lovers"? Are you shitting me?! I thought she said 'Star crossed lovers' as in Romeo and Juliet.. Lol, this is news to me as well [deleted] This is a meme I can so get on board with. Hi Maisie!

Do you have any favourite video games? A while back I saw you were a fan of Hat Films!

Absolutely loved Cyberbully and really looking forward to seeing The Falling. Me and my brothers enjoy playing a computer game called "Amnesia" which is *really* scary! 

We haven't completed it yet, but we're close. So, Maisie Williams' metaphorical brass balls are bigger than mine in *and* out of Game of Thrones.  Valyrian steel* Hi Maisie
Regarding the Last of Us, have you ever played the game? Do you it'd make an impact on your decision playing Ellie? (Personally I think you'd be spot on!) I've watched a walk-through with my brother, and our next mission is to play the game, and I'm really looking forward to it, because the walk-through was *insane.*  Favourite cartoon / show when younger?

Dexter's Lab was ace.  I used to watch Pingu *religiously* and it's about a little penguin, and that's basically it. But then this one episode came along where Pingu lost his mother, and it basically scarred me for life, because Pingu was crying, and I was crying, and then, yeah, Pingu was never the same after that.  What do we say to the God of Death? NOOT NOOT I also would have accepted NOOT TODAY Remember how much his dad loved to iron?  
It was a lot. He loved that shit.  
  
edit: wow! Thanks so much for the gold! NONE OF THEM WORE CLOTHES! Right, because his dad was always ironing them.

Edit: Reddit gold! Thank you! I'm curious how people handle children/minors on the set of a TV series with so much adult content.  Is there a lot of separation between the parts you film and other parts?  Are you allowed to watch GoT? I'm allowed to watch the show. I'm not around when they shoot the more adult scenes. But yeah, I watch the show, I enjoy it, and I feel like I'm a bit of a fan of the show. This gave me an image of Arya and the Hound sitting at a tavern watching the Mountain vs the Viper live on tv and being more engaged by the outcome than any fan watching the show Why are you so obsessed with the Lion King intro song? Because... it's kind of the only song that anyone can sing, no matter how good or bad their musical talent is. And it's just really catchy.

And I just like doing it to animals. And they quite hate me for it, but it's funny.

Like, I did it with a ladybird in a Vine. And immediately afterwards, it flew away. Which was very sad.  What you don't realize is that ladybird couldn't sing, and was very sad and jealous. But you gave it hope. It didn't just fly away, it traveled the world, watching every broadway show. And years later, when you least expect it, you'll wake up to a ladybird singing the Lion King intro song. Have you read the books? Had you heard of them before you got the role? I haven't read the books. And I didn't read them before I got the role.

I do want to read them but I'm going to wait until the season is finished. But I can't wait to see what really happens to Arya! Yes! Judging by the rate at which Martin's working, you'll probably get to act out what happens to Arya before we get to read it. Hey Maisie, can you say thanks to Aidan for us? HEY AIDAN!

He's just gone outside.

AIDAN - EVERYONE SAYS THANK YOU!

He's gone, but we'll come back to it in a minute so we can write his answer. Aidan's back now.

Everyone wants to say thank you very much. 

D'you have anything to say?

*FOR REDDIT!* I did it for reddit! - Aidan what just happened? Are you and Rory McCann really good friends still? I hope we have not seen the last of the Hound! We are very close friends. I saw him when I was at the SAG awards at the week-end, and it was really nice to see him again, and I hope that's not the last I see of him. ^^cleganebowl... ^^GETHYPE Is there any actors who you would love to work with? Um... I would like to work with... I really admire Charlize Theron, but I don't know if I'd want to work with her, because I'd be hugely intimidated, but I think she's a fantastic actress. Actually, Charlize Theron is a [GOT addict](http://screenrant.com/charlize-theron-game-thrones-interview-rothc-175696/) and would really like to play a part. So what I'm trying to say is, it could happen, and then she would be on your hometurf. Hey Maisie. Love your performance as Arya, GoT is hands down my favourite show on the air, and the amazing cast is to thank for that! 


My question is, how has the experience of portraying the character development of Arya been like, do you feel any similarities or differences between you and her? ...and also, do you ever look at chickens the same way anymore? 

 Heheheehee!

I think as I've grown up, as Arya's growing up, there's definitely similarities between us. And it's been really helpful for her personality to change as I've gotten older. And it's been great for me to make the transition into being an adult actor with the same character. And I still look at chickens and think they're delicious, haha! Hey Maisie, I'll ask what everyone on /r/thelastofus has been talking about.

**Will you play Ellie in The Last of Us Movie?**

Did you do a table read of the script?

Do you *want* to play Ellie?

Thanks! THE LAST OF US movie is in very early days. I have spoken to powerful people who are getting THE LAST OF US on its feet. And I'm hopeful that I can play Ellie in the future, but we'll all have to wait and see.  My tear ducts are ready. I'm sad that I can't ever play that game for the first time again.  I grew very attached to the characters. Okay you've convinced me. Buying it right now. Be jealous of my first time experience. STAY THE FUCK AWAY FROM SPOILERS

You're in for an amazing ride. Don't look up anything online, just enjoy.

The last of us is easily the best game I've ever played. Do you have any strange habits? I follow you on Twitter, you're super cool. What's the funniest thing your turtle has done?  I came in, like 2 weeks ago, and one of my baby tortoises - one of the youngsters, if people follow my account, they'll know I had 3 little ones being born - and one of 'em was upside down in his dish, and I thought he'd drowned, cuz he was so little, and I went over and picked him up, and he was just in his waterfowl! I don't know how he did that, they're pretty study, but he was just floating around upside-down in his dish. And his head was out of the water, so he was fine.

I nearly cried, and then I realized he was fine! I was like "Goddamnit Stevie, don't do that to me!" Classic Stevie. Hot pie or hot cake? PIE!

I like savory pies, like meat pies.

I don't really like sweet food.  Hi Maisie! Is there anything you specifically find odd about American culture?  Ehm... I don't want to offend anyone... is there anything I find odd? You drive on the wrong side of the roads, in my opinion.  u wot m8 http://imgur.com/kkWTVcB Thank you for this .gif, holy shit you made my day !  No, we drive on the right side! Hi Maisie! Nothing groundbreaking with this one, but what is your favorite movie? Are you a fan of any sports? I used to enjoy high-jump, although I'm really short, I did beat a lot of kids that were a lot taller than me. I have a very springy jump, I think. I enjoyed high-jump.  What TV shows do you secretly enjoy? Secretly enjoy?

Oh! Well it's not much of a secret, but I really enjoy The Great British Bake-Off. It's like a competition show, but they all bake it, and it's very funny, because they all cry over techniques. Like if they get their cake wrong, they're just sobbing over a spongecake, and I find it hilarious.  What did you think of the episode where that woman took that poor guys food out of the freezer, and it literally ruined his entire dish? I felt so sorry for that guy, he looked really really angry. [Imgur](http://i.imgur.com/YGgqohN.jpg?1) I was literally screaming at that bitch. THAT'S NOT YOUR CAKE. WHY MOVE SOMEONE ELSE CAKE WITHOUT TELLING THEM?!?!  I don't even think she apologised. Tea or coffee?
 Tea! No milk one sugar. *RULE BRITANNIA* How is your day going? Really well! I've actually been up since 4 AM, so I'm a little bit wired, I drank loads of coffee. But it feels like I should be going to sleep, and it's 3 in the afternoon, so a bit long.  Which actor from the show would you put on the iron throne?

Also, did you have fun at the [Ed Sheeran concert](http://s3-ec.buzzfed.com/static/2014-06/29/14/enhanced/webdr09/anigif_enhanced-28532-1404068337-1.gif)? Took me a while to spot her Yeah, I thought it might have been a fake out. But then I noticed her in the back. Oh man that Ed Sheeran performance was amazing, someone threw a cup full of piss at my face  Hi Maisie!
 On your quest to become a Pokemon master, which starter Pokemon do you pick? Bulbasaur, Squirtle, or Charmander?  Charmander.  Well, let's see. I can choose a plant, a turtle, or a MOTHERFUCKING FIRE BREATHING DRAGON. Hmm, tough choice.  Nice try daenerys.
Edit: For the gold, I thank thee. "WHERE... ARE MY CHARMANDERS!?" Cats or Dogs? 

 Dogs. We used to have 13 dogs. That's quite a lot of dogs. And I'm never had a cat. Dogs are awesome.  So you can say you have plenty of experience dealing with Hounds? And never much luck catching those cats. Great work in Cyberbully, I saw it and you really keep the attention of the viewer all through, quite a feat for such a focused one-room movie! I'm curious what is your favorite music and your favorite movies or tv shows at the moment? Cheers My favourite music... ehm... is probably like drum &amp; bass, and bass lines? And the TV I watch at the moment, I don't have a lot of time to watch TV. So probably as I said earlier, the Great British Bake-Off. I religiously watch that. You should totally check out Game of Thrones. I'll let you borrow my HBO Go password if you'd like. That was surprisingly tame. I'm proud of you.  What would your personal house sigil and house words be? 
 
^Edit: ^Prob'ly ^shoulda ^realized ^that ^there ^is ^no ^way ^this ^is ^the ^first ^time ^anyone's ^asked ^this, ^and ^I ^probably ^could ^have ^just ^Googled ^the ^answer. ^Oh ^well.  
^^^Maisie ^^^Williams ^^^answered ^^^me!!! I've answered this question before! My sigil would be a tortoise, and my saying would be "Go hard or go home" because your shell is hard, and it's also your home, so... You wish you had your tortoise emojis on reddit right now, don't you..  These you mean?  The just show up as squares... Is my computer sick? It's the banner for the House ASCII   
  
  
^^edit: ^^Someone ^^made ^^me ^^Master ^^of ^^Coin! It's actually the house of badly supported UTF-8.  "We do not render." "Eight bits are enough" "Sans Serif, Sans Mercy" Hey Maisie, what would you name the first city on Mars?  Pffffffbbbbbbt.

Ehm. What would I name the first city on Mars?

Mar-zipan!

I find marzipan quite disgusting, but that was the first thing that came into my head. &gt;Pffffffbbbbbbt.

That sems a lot like what Ray Bradbury named martian things in The Martian Chronicles. &gt; Pffffffbbbbbbt

Brilliant name. Do you like crunchy peanut butter or smooth? Crunchy! People who like smooth peanut butter are just aliens.  Do you have any interest in doing theater work in the future?  I'd love to work in the theater! I was recently talking to Emilia Clarke, who's another actress on the show, about what it was like being onstage, so yeah, in the future, I hope that crosses my path.  How did you get your start in acting? Game of Thrones! It was my second audition. I was completely in the right place at the right time. And now it's completely changed my life, and now I find myself doing a reddit AMA, which is kind of crazy. Do you want the Hound to live?

What do you want to be when you grow up?

 Yeah, I would love The Hound to live, because I'd love to work with Rory again. So in an ideal world, yeah, the Hound is still alive, in Maisie's opinion.

I wanted to be... well, when I was like *really* little, i went through my old books I did at school, and on the first page, one of them says "When I grow up I want to be" and there's a little picture of me being  skateboarder. Yeah! And then I grew up and wanted to be a dancer. And then I started acting! Hi Maisie, big fan.

In the event of a "cheeky Nandos" what spice do you have on your chicken?

Cheers and have a nice day! I go with Lemon &amp; Herb, but I get the medium sauce.

And occasionally, if I'm feeling daring, I go with the Wing Roulette, and burn the mouth! since I'm assuming Victoria is answering....that would be Wing Roulette - although may lead to ring roulette in six to eight hours.... What book is on your nightstand? I am! It's called "How to build a girl" by Caitlin Moran. You're a book on your nightstand? I suspect Victoria inserted a modifier like "...if you're reading something right now." If you were a pizza, what kind of toppings would you have? Um... pepperoni with some extra pepperoni, and then sprinkle it with some pepperoni. Yeah! My absolute favourite. rip in pepperoni Hey Maisie! If you could only eat one type of cheese for the rest of your life what type would it be and why? It would be... Halloumi Cheese, because I think it's probably the best thing that has to be invented. But it has to be grilled. It's like rubbery, and squeaky, like cheesy bacon. You should try it. It's really salty. Amazing. What would be in your perfect sandwich? Perfect sandwich... cold chicken, salt &amp; vinegar crisps, and tomato ketchup.

I actually had it last night, that was my dinner.  That's sounds like something I'd dream up if I were drunk and pillaging the kitchen. That's the heart of British cuisine.   Who rips the biggest farts on set? Well, I spent a lot of time with Rory, and he definitely farted a few times when I was in his presence, and it was *really*, really funny to be honest.  What's your go-to cure for a rotten, stinking cold? Manuca honey, lemon, and hot water! Or just like, *loads* of green tea. But that's just me every day. Hi Maisie! Thanks for doing this! Watching you and Rory McCann play my favorite duo on the show has been a dream come true for me. I would go so far as to say you guys did it even better than I pictured in the books, so thanks for being so awesome! I have a couple questions (feel free to ignore if these have been asked already)...

1) If you could trade roles with anyone (male or female) on Game of Thrones, who would you want to play and why?

2) Who would YOU want to sit the Iron Throne?

3) If you could have any superpower, what would you pick?

4) If you could have a career other than acting, what would you pick?

5) What's your favorite colour?

Thanks again! You are such a fantastic performer to watch, and I really look forward to seeing what else you do in the future =D 1.) I would love to play... Cersei, because she's badass. 

2.) Ehm - I think... Bronn (Tyrion's left hand man) would do a really good job? Cuz he's funny! 

3.) Ehm...oooh! If I had a super-power... I can't think of anything? Oh! Probably shape-shift. 

4.) Dancing. That was kind of my career path before acting, but yeah. Things change. And now I'm acting.

5.) Green! I think you mean Bronn :). People are so much nicer correcting Maisie [than they were Daniel Radcliffe](http://i.imgur.com/I6i7OOl.jpg) My bad! Sorry I've only had one cup of coffee! You are so adorable &lt;3  Now kiss Victoria is probably the Oberyn of Reddit. 

Just because she manages to be so awesome despite literally slumming through every comment at a particular time on a default subreddit every day for a living Must a real eyesore. It must be extra weird when the person is sitting with her.  Was there. Seeing someone calling Daniel Radcliffe a filthy casual regarding Harry Potter and being gilded for it is one of those "only on Reddit" moments. I bet he laughed his head off at that one. *nearly laughed his head off Are you sure it's [nearly](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Wu7HyyVmrno)? AHEM! /u/KhalChris Sadly I missed this AMA- i was at uni. Lucky for her I guess, ASOIAF is my favourite series so there would have been no mercy! lolololol because they're just correcting Victoria's reporting of what Maisie is saying [Or the President of the United States](http://www.reddit.com/r/IAmA/comments/z1c9z/i_am_barack_obama_president_of_the_united_states/c60n05h).  Nobody is safe.

At least he was polite. well u do see the difference  5 Gold to ...... to be fair, "you filthy casual" is obviously sarcarsm Thank you. I never saw this and it's amazing. Sassing Harry Potter about details in Harry Potter.

Only on Reddit. Oh come on that was clearly in good fun, even self-deprecating, and I think Daniel can laugh at himself. That was so beautiful I tried to upvote the jpg. That chirp to Daniel is pretty damn funny tho! Greatest post in the history of the Internet.  AHEM! u/KhalChris Without meaning to offend, how can she get that wrong, I mean seriously, maybe auto correct though. &gt;Victoria from reddit will be helping me out.

Probably because she didn't type it. I was like, "I read the books, and I do not recall any character named Ron...." Shape shifting, of course! Very appropriate. Thank you for answering my qestions, enjoy the AMA and good luck with everything! :) You guys are vaguely spoiling shit and I know it. 

I need to get out of this thread. Sorry man. The books have been out for 20+ years and we're entering the 5th season of a show that has become one of the most popular in the world. The fact that you've made it this far without spoilers is a miracle. Oh shit if we've already passed the deadline for people to read ASOIAF, I'll just ask my boss to chuck all of our copies. Yeah that's exactly what I meant. You haven't seen Season 2? Haha, wow, didn't even pick up on that. 

Also, props to you for not freaking out about someone answering you on their AMA... I've only ever really been answered by the professional cuddler and a Wendy's employee. They were both awesome, though!

EDIT: And now I've been answered by Maisie Williams. :) Nice birthday present.  Oh I'm freaking out. I love Game of Thrones and ASOIAF to the point of obsession and I've been camping her userpage waiting for this opportunity. Arya is my favorite character and I have a deep, undying love for Arya and the Hound. But I'm just a username on a website to her, so freaking out all over her comments would just be inappropriate. I'm just thankful my questions got answered :D She answered me too! :o I posted two more comments thinking that she hadn't. I didn't check my inbox. :/ 

Should I go delete those other comments? If they're just questions I don't see why you should. I'm pretty sure there's no rule against posting questions in multiple comments? Ah, okay! Thanks.  I remember that professional cuddler! Good on you mate Maisie answered me! :D Of course! I was blind not to see that! hehe And "dancing". A shapeshifter was walking down the road. He turned into a bank. No spoilers damnit! No spoilers, I promise. :D sounded like a spoiler haha. I should probably get out of this thread All hail king Ron! Weasley is our king New candidate for best Harry Potter/GoT reference. Thanks! Pretty rare for the two to come together. He always lets the Quaffle in  *Ahem*

He never lets the quaffle in. I prefer Stoppable.  Oh man, its been a while since I've had that "poem" stuck in my head.  Since nobody else is going to do it, props for the excellently placed Harry Potter reference. If I had gold to give, you would be receiving it my friend. I got you, man. Bene King of the friendzone I am the KING!! 
-Geoffry The Ron in the Souf! Hail. Ron Fucking Swanson! Bronn*


Edit: M'lady &gt; M'lady

Spoken like a commoner.  B'Ron This is one of the few times this is appropriate  Go eat a bushel of neeps, wun wun &gt; Probably shape-shift.

Oh that's clever &gt; Probably shape-shift.

Then you could be "no one."  =) clever :D I GET THIS! cause I read the books :) ayyy lmao "I would love to play... Cersei, because she's badass. " --- But Arya is much more badass than Cersei... Cersei is just obnoxiously cruel and an inept politician.  Arya just the whole water dancing thing and she's quick to kill when the situation requires it.

 She hasn't read the books, so I think it's easier to see Cersei as a woman who just "gets it done" on the show than the poor politician she turns out to be in the books.  Still a water dancer! Green is not a creative color. Should have expected that answer to the third question hehe  You came close to number 4. You know the Dance of Braavos! ;) &gt; 1.) I would love to play... Cersei, because she's badass.

funny, out of all the characters in the show, yours currently has proven to be one of if not the most bad ass. Cersei is a brother loving, crazy scoundrel.  &gt;3.) Ehm...oooh! If I had a super-power... I can't think of anything? Oh! Probably shape-shift. 

Lizard Illuminati confirmed. &gt; no spoilers

&gt; Shape shifting as favorite super power

I'm watching you...

 For anyone interested, here is Maisie Williams crip walking: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zczwVZzmuQw &gt; 5.) Green!

MINE TOO! Sorry about your dancing master.  Shape shifting is the best power, because you could theoretically have almost all other desirable powers! 

Wanna fly? Turn into a bird. Invisible? Turn into a bug. Wanna go fast? Turn into ~sonic~ a falcon or a cheetah. Super strength? Mother fucking rhino.  You're already a water dancer Green is not a creative colour. Shape shifting? Would you take changing faces? ah yes, shape shifting.... all famous people are shape shifters, look out! you mean face shifting huh huh wink wink COUGH COGH HUUUHH?!?!???!? Sweet someone famous has the same favorite color I do. Valar Morghulis. Too few people pick green :D We share the same favorite color *__* Oh man, I have a few responses here. 

1. Well she's Sarah Connor, of course she's badass.

2. I hope you get cast in a superhero movie as a shapeshifter some day!

4. *insert Braavosi water dancing joke here* Bron* Badass Quotient: Arya &gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; Cersie &gt; Face-shift

FTFY its bron :/ &gt;Ron

Oh god...that hurt me a lot. Green is not a creative color dream bigger Great comment. My dream response. Thank you for making this come true for me. [deleted] Oh look it's my favorite type of redditor: arguing the semantics of a post so you can purposely ignore the point of what I said in order to appear intelligent and/or funny.

Their performances were more than I could have hoped for, and I feel fortunate to be able to watch their great dynamic and chemistry play out on screen. I don't know if anyone could have done it better, but their portrayl is a dream come true for me.

Is that better? Does that satisfy you? [deleted] Your point was that someone who gets excited about an actor doing an AMA on one of their favorite series is sad? Even if I *did* want Rory and Maisie specifically to play those parts, why is that sad? My post was upvoted 300+ times, so I think some people agreed with what I said. Not to mention this entire AMA was the #1 post on the front page, so if you're saying everyone who was excited for it is pathetic then I think you need to take another look at yourself.

You know there are people on the other side of your screen right? When you comment there's a real human that reads what you said. You're not just shouting into a void. Almost every human is on the planet is just "someone on the internet."

I'm not angry. But if you want to pretend I'm angry so you can feel satisfied and superior to me, then you're free to do that. Can we address the very confusing use of "favorite colour"? My brain needs you to stick with either British or American English, please I'm Canadian, so really its either way with us. Do you believe in ghosts? No.... &gt; ....

Not even the ghost of Harrenhal??? :P but would you consider doing horror films? Hello, Maisie! Typical Reddit question: what is your favourite breakfast cereal? 
 Muesli. But only the special kind from Waitrose. It's like the green stuff. It has to be that one, otherwise I won't eat it. Very specific.  Quite amused by Victoria's struggles to figure out what exactly the alien British things Maisie's referring to are. I can completely relate.

It's "Waitrose". Poor Vicky. Or maybe she's called Tori. Or Ictor.

...Probably not Ictor.  And "muesli". We have muesli and granola in the states but never could tell the difference. Is muesli just Swiss granola?  Granola is typically baked with some sort of sticky agent (like honey or syrup) so it clumps and is sort of crunchy. It goes nicely over yoghurt and adds bite. Muesli (or msli) is more dry and not baked.    
Bircher muesli is kept overnight in milk or fruit juice or yoghurt until it is ^gross, sorry until it is mushy. You can also add fruit chunks to the milk and let it soak overnight until it ^(looks like vomit) is the perfect Bircher consistency.  Ah, the baking part is the difference. Thanks.  I know muesli from the cartoon Duckula that came on after Danger Mouse on Nickelodeon. :) Oh wow. forgot about that. I loved Duckula and Danger Mouse when i was a kid.  I don't really know what granola is, and I especially don't know about Swiss granola. Oh, well muesli was invented by a Swiss physician so that's where the name comes from. Granola may just be a different word for the same thing.  I always thought of muesli as like oats with fruit &amp; nuts. Granola as sort of like, balls of oats stuck together? I think we'd just call them both muesli though, I never really hear anyone use the word granola. Granola is literally your definition of muesli. It actually predates muesli. Looked it up because I was curious. Basically Kelloggs began producing granola in the 19th century and then the Swiss began making muesli in the early 20th. It would make sense for the European version to make its way (namewise) to the UK rather than the US version. 

Edit: granola is baked with honey and muesli is raw oats.  What did Victoria put? It's been edited now! Waitro's ^hides^face^in^hands this ama has made me feel very american, i've never heard of any of these things Me neither. :P *Westeros Quite. for all non-brits, Waitrose is the go-to supermarket for the posh/rich/wannabes, it's a strange experience to enter one (at least for me) That's not quite fair, it's slightly more expensive but you get what you pay for and their stores are all over! I'm just stating MY opinion on them So, it's the British version of Whole Foods. That sounds more like m&amp;s to me. Waitrose is just slightly more upmarket for the middle class mums. Where I live there's a tesco, sainsbury's and Waitrose. Still go there sometimes. They just tend to have things the others don't.  like Mexican Beer  that's true they do have unique things, but where I live the people that I mentioned are the main demographic that shop in my local one Oh Waitrose.

Best british supermarket.

can confirm, am british.

^^all hail waitrose Ahem. Waitrose :) Uh... Yeah... I know exactly what you mean. *nods* Uh-huh 

Thanks for answering!

 She spelt it wrong, it's Muesli:

https://www.google.co.uk/search?q=Muesli

And it's very nice.


And the shop she is referring to is Waitrose.  If Victoria's typing these answers out she's not doing a very good job today. Nah, Victoria's doing great. The British words are probably getting her confused. Also It would have been like 4 in the morning when this AMA started. xD

EDIT: Whoa Remember that Vic is typing at about 200 wpm to get through all these questions in an hour. @/u/chooter : [Waitrose](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Waitrose) as a guy from the U.S. i understood nothing from this post.  Can confirm.

Source: American Muesli is a type of cereal, like granola, and Waitrose is a high-end grocery store chain in the UK. [deleted] You talkin shit about raisins, m8? What? ^how ^^Dare ^^^YOU!!!!!! The big chunky raisins? They're the best part! We get Waitrose stuff here in Bermuda, I love their products! Whoa. Someone else from the Caribbean on Reddit! Waiterosi muesli? You should try Just Right. As a muesli lover that is really good too. How about with rice? Rating out of 10 if possible As Americans we have no idea what you're talking about. Yea.... Can someone enlighten us yanks? :D She loves you, yeah, yeah, yeah French Toast Crunch FTW. Best of all time.  My favourite is actually Cinnabon cereal. Whoops Hey Maisie! Greetings from California at around 6 am. I stayed up all night to make sure I could get a couple questions in. I love how you portray Arya Stark, you're amazing! I love your vines as well they're pretty funny! Now onto business:

What would you like to move on to after Game of Thrones? 

How great is Sophie Turner in real life?

How was it like not fainting around Pedro Pascal?

Now the obligatory reddit question:

Would you rather fight one Hound sized duck or a 100 duck sized Hounds?
 First of all, thank you for staying up so long, that's really really nice of you!

And after Game of Thrones, I'd love to continue in television, and I'd love to move on to movies as well. I don't really know what I want to do? But I think that's quite cool, because I'm only 17 and I don't have to decide yet. But definitely staying in performing.

She's absolutely fantastic. She's probably one of the funniest girls I know. And I'm so glad that I met her.

It's very difficult. I'm madly in love with him. And it's quite - everybody has a crush on him. But I'd never tell him. Oh well, now the internet knows.

Hahahaha! Oh! 

I would love to fight 100 little duck-sized Hounds. Because I'd never in my life looked down on Rory, and that would be an interesting situation.  It's okay, he already knows you have a crush. It is known. It is known.  I bet Jon Snow doesn't know. He knows nothing. It is known. It is known. *cough*/r/thingsjonsnowknows*cough* Hahaha.  I was like, there are 14k subscribers but no posts.  Then I figured it out. 
It is KNOWN 

The greater good. Hodor. It is known. So say we all. Is it known? Is it safe? KEEP IT SECRET
KEEP IT SAFE One guy doesn't know. Good ol Jon Snow. Is it known? It is known. It's a cone. Everyone in the world, male, female, and trans, has a crush on Pedro.   Now we know.

Now we know.

NOW WE KNOW!

NOW WE KNOWW!!!

NOW WE KN-


I'm doing it again aren't I? Mitchell &amp; Webb is great. I'm a straight man and he is my biggest man crush  r/gayforoberyn Especially The Mountain. Because he... literally crushed him. He seems like kind of an asshole in the bedroom. And frankly I don't want him around my asshole in the bedroom. TIL that I already had a crush on Pedro Pascal, I just didn't know his name.  I think he has a weirdly shaped head..kinda flat. He totally does. And he makes it sooooo sexy. [deleted] I don't believe you! [deleted] Stop being a punk dude, its probably so deep and instinctual inside your body that you don't even know, man! Sorry to burst the circlejerk, I have no idea why all the fuss? Whatever don't answer really I don't want to listen to your dribbling.  The simple solution to your dilemma would have been to not ask.  But then how would I let you know that not everyone in the world has a crush on this random guy whom I don't care if I ever see again? You did claim to speak for the whole world didn't you? You ever heard of a rhetorical fucking question? You needn't answer any of these btw, they are all english language devices utilised in a way as to express my point. Now go and wank over that really quite average spanish guy and leave me in piece, I have said all I wanted to on the matter.  You could have tried saying "Not everyone in the world has a crush on this random guy, and I am one of the ones who doesn't." You asked a question and said you didn't want to know the answer. I'm familiar with rhetorical questions. And they are not devices exclusive to the English language, fyi. I'm just choosing to ignore what you want because you're taking this too seriously and being petulant. 

And didn't I claim to speak for the whole world? No, you're confusing me with the other user. But if being left in "piece" is what you prefer, have at it then. Few pieces missing if you ask me.  Great this is exactly the kind of pointless retarded dribble everyone could do without. Also, autocorrect asshole. Also, go die somewhere not here. The end.  Who doesn't have a crush on him?  We don't speak of *those people* Even The Mountain had a crush on him. Too soon.  Always too soon. Pedro gets Unsullied hard. Khaleesi thinks Pedro is too hot. It is known The Mountain probably had the biggest crush on him.  I just read your username in his voice. ayyy He's probably just safe to assume anyone he meets has a crush on him, normal sexual preferences be damned. But umm... I thought he knows nothing? I'm sure he is familiar with being crushed... Oh you Like this? Too soon m8.

Haha, just kidding, I'm sure there's a *mountain* of girls who have crushes on him. &gt; It's very difficult. I'm madly in love with him.

Oh Gods the Fanfic-writers are gonna go batshit crazy over that one.. implying they haven't already. Please be the next Kitty Pryde.  I would throw so much money at that movie. Pedro... that face, and those........ eyes...... We've known forever, love. I saw Pedro at comic con last year.... there was much swooning by everyone! Yeah, everybody has a crush on Pedro. Especially the Mountain. I heard he *majorly* crushed on Pedro.  I would love to see you and Sophie do comedy.  You could be like the British Tina Fey and Amy Poehler.  I bet the two of you could write better material than the "sheep shift" bit in your sleep! Dont worry, everyone likes him, im pretty confidant Pedro Pascal is one of those guys even the straightest man on the world would have trouble saying no to...

and he knows it. The Mountain was definitely crushing on him pretty hard! I'm disappointed in you for missing the opportunity to ask "100 chicken sized Hounds or one Hound sized chicken." I'm so glad my dad woke me up this morning thinking I had school.  [VINES](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4ZbebwqIqj4) Why didt you just get up early? You could've just gotten up early instead of staying up all night.  Why didn't you just wake up early instead of stay up? [deleted] How is this not answered? What did he ask? He asked: at what age did you lose your virginity. I don't remember lol Thanks  Sorry I couldn't be much help :/ I'm really bad at remembering things. I just remember it was a good question tho. Hi Maisie. I'm the person who posted the [original AMA request](https://www.reddit.com/r/IAmA/comments/2t60v7/ama_request_maisie_williams_aka_arya_stark_in/) a few days ago. I'll ask you some of the questions that I put on there: 

1. What is the strangest piece of fan art that somebody has given you?
2. What would be your dream role to play in any franchise?
3. What has helped you to mature the most as a young actress?
4. How would you best describe Arya's progression as a character from Season's 1-5?
5. Are you going to be playing Ellie in The Last of Us movie?

Thank you for doing this AMA!

Edit: Thanks for the [Gold!](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gSq8ZBdSxNU)  Damn. Original requester gets left hanging.  I am just glad that this was organised more than anything else. I think most of my questions were answered in other posts anyway.  Thank you /u/itsSuperRob! We owe you! Can we get /u/itsSuperRob to do an AMA to make up for it? Thanks for being a good guy about it. Plus you got karma and gold anyway.  No worries buddy, we got you covered...[in karma!](http://i.imgur.com/xJVt2.gif) You da real mvp  good guy original requester  &gt; I think most of my questions were answered in other posts anyway.

yeah, I think all of them were indeed Nah, you're probably just an Arya's list somewhere.  You're a sport That's rough buddy http://i.imgur.com/kDJkMhv.jpg Should be illegal  Never ask more than one question in the actual AMA. The person answering sees a list of questions, says "Woah, fuck. I'm going to answer some simpler questions first." Then never gets back to it. He's the Original Requester Reddit deserves, but not the one it needs right now. So he'll be left hanging. Because he can take it. Because he's not our hero. He's a silent guardian, a watchful requester. A Reddit knight. Answering 5 questions for 1 person isn't as good PR as having 5 different guys all giddy. Maybe don't ask five questions next time.  I'm not sure why people don't seem to get this. Whenever there's an AMA people that load a comment with questions are almost guaranteed to be ignored. Asking five questions tends to be a good way to not get any of them answered.  Ask one, or maybe two or three if you're feeling bold, but five is too many. Too many questions in one comment lol Too many questions.  I blame chooter. (Just kidding Victoria, we all love you) Damnnn That really defeats the purpose of having to come up with questions for an AMA request at all. They should be required to be answered first thing the moment the AMA starts, if not in its original post. I requested Hans Zimmer a few years back and when he eventually came around I was too late to even comment. It stings, man. Maybe don't get greedy next time with a five-part essay prompt.  Just sayin' - keep the questions short and sweet. [He's not the original requester though.](https://www.reddit.com/r/IAmA/search?q=maisie&amp;restrict_sr=on) Well the dude asked a bunch of questions, can't really blame her. Should've just asked one or two. Maybe if Bruh didn't ask 19 questions  people that ask a litany of questions get ignored a lot.  Rightly so, in my opinion.  Ask one question and then let others get a chance. 5 questions is a lot to answer in an AMA He sounded snooty  Whoa, I didn't know there was gonna be a The Last of Us movie. That would be awesome. My PS3 broke just about the time the game came out so yeah. 
  Your PS3 is similar to my dad.  He passed away? Or did he go bankrupt? He broke when I came out.  Oh. Hopefully in the way someone breaks when they hear good news? :(   Dad was a peasant? Did your dad play tlou and comeout super butthurt? The Last Of Us is already pretty much like an interactive movie.  Dammit I really need to get my PS3 fixed.  Just go with a ps4, might be just a little bit more than fixing it, and some ps4s come with the last of us as a free download Eh, fixing my PS3 might just be easier  True, I only say this because I was in the same boat, hdmi port on my ps3 fried, and everything I saw to fix it was going to cost about as much as a new ps3, so I just saved that money and put it towards a ps4 Meh. Not 100% sure about that in my country Doh, the dude that asked for the AMA didn't get his question answered.  That sucks.  Thanks for helping to make it happen.  Is interesting reading a 17 year old responses to goofy questions on Reddit.   No problem! I have enjoyed it! :)  No response. Bummer. God, I know there's a timing thing but I feel bad for you. This is worse than the American Dad! super fan that Rachel MacFarlane never answered.  Related question: did the request do anything or was it just coincidental? For reference, I linked to it in my email to Maisie's management team just as a way of saying that lots of people want to see it happen. I'm not 100% sure whether or not she saw the request or her friend. I was stoked when I saw your request, so glad it happened, thanks for being that guy! She's just here so she doesn't get fined. I find it funny that the mods allow this, but when subreddits posted their top questions in single posts for the elon musk AMA, mods deleted the posts.

I find it strange mods will apply a double standard for AMAs with a reddit admin involved.   The original AMA request for Maisie was over a year ago, I know because I upvoted it. Haha you thought you would get the attention and got ignored hahaha Why isn't your name ItsSuperRobb?

Edit: jeez people. Forget the typo, and focus on the second b. &gt; Why isn't your name ItsSupetRobb?

Probably because he isn't supet.
 He's upset. Supet? Because Supet isn't a word. &gt; I'm the person who posted the original AMA request a few days ago.

Yes, I'm sure no one has posted a request for Maisie Williams before you did, a few days ago, and that she did this solely because of you. LOL.  Rekt. Ooooh, look out! The REQUESTER is here!!! [deleted] Considering that my request gained much more popularity than the rest, I think it was only right that I did something about it.  As a father who named his first daughter, Arya, after this character, I'm a huge fan. Please answer this other fan as well. My child will want to know why we named her Arya, and what better than to hear it from Arya herself. :) Hmmm stalker much??  I have actually been working with Victoria to organize this AMA so that's how I knew. I'm just trying to do something good for reddit :)  Who is this Victoria I always hear. [Victoria](http://www.reddit.com/r/IAmA/comments/2fgsv2/i_am_victoria_from_reddit_amaa) is reddit's Director of Communications and types up a lot of the AMA's for the celebrities who participate.  Oh ok thanks. What's the future of communication for long range interstellar craft? With my small amount of reading I've done, it looks like New Horizons uses [X-Band](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/X_band) and will only get 1kbps when it's as far out as Pluto.


What's next on the horizon as we get further out and have more bandwidth requirements? This is Michael Vincent.  The next step in higher rate communication at long distances is laser comm.  Instead of sending a broad beam of X-band energy, send a very focused light, preserving a lot of the power.  Take a look at the demonstration NASA did with laser comm to the moon: http://esc.gsfc.nasa.gov/267/271.html How easy is it to aim the Earth from Pluto shooting a laser beam? Michael Vincent: Not easy at all, and we don't have laser comm on New Horizons.  The first demonstration was Earth-to-moon, and that was successful.  The next step is Mars.   Can research into this technology help better aircraft wifi ?

(Not a joke question, there's a bet riding on it) I hope this settles your bet.. [It was already done in 2006](http://www.esa.int/About_Us/ESRIN/Another_world_first_for_Artemis_a_laser_link_with_an_aircraft) How much faster laser communication could be? (with the same energy) Are we taking about orders of magnitude? 

Thank you! Michael Vincent: 10-100 times faster! Considering my parents place barely makes 200kbps - up to 100kbps to frekin Pluto sounds pretty good.  Terrible latency though.  But it means better pictures and even video might be possible some day! Pluto probe, please send the picture.

 (14 hours later)

"Sorry, could you repeat that?" Serious question: what benefit would video bring? At that sort of distance (distance from spacecraft to planet, I mean) wouldn't it just look like a static picture anyway unless you sped it up? Have you seen videos of the Earth? They are amazing! Pictures are great for static places like the moon or Mars, but imagine seeing a video of Venus and Jupiter! Indeed, but we already have that.  Jupiter changes slower than you think.  These animation sequences were taken over a series of multiple days, so realtime video is less interesting than you might think.

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EEDI0rXJ24E

and

http://www.nasa.gov/centers/goddard/multimedia/largest/EduVideoGallery.html What about Ka-band? Asking for a friend. Yeah sure, you degenerate radio geek ; )
 Is the craft still being controlled or just floating along its original trajectory? Or has it changed course due to unforeseen circumstances? We're on a trajectory to Pluto that only needs corrections to home in. We're on original course. And my GPS can't even get me downtown without recalculating I assume there might be less traffic when you get past Jupiter...Freakin asteroid belt man.  You can fly straight through the belt thousands of times and never see a single asteroid, not even as a speck of light. If you do want to see an asteroid, you have to aim for one. But...I was promised that the odds of successfully navigating an asteroid field being 3,720 to 1.

 Never tell me the odds! How visible (to all instruments on board, not just cameras) do you expect Pluto's atmosphere to be?

What are you personally hoping to find the most? This is Michael Vincent: The short answer is almost all the instruments can play a part.  Long answer: we are going to be imaging clouds with LORRI and MVIC (the "cameras").  With Alice, we are going to look through the upper atmosphere by tracking the UV light from stars we are looking at as we are moving (like looking at the Moon through moving clouds).  Similarly with REX, we are going to be looking at the lower atmosphere by having the DSN send us a signal at X-band, and have REX record how that signal wobbles through it.  We can even "sniff" the atmosphere with our in-situ plasma instruments PEPSSI and SWAP. I would just like to point out that Vincent is talking about **clouds and weather on Pluto**. Wow. And I would just like to use this opportunity to thank you for doing, er- planetary evangelism? Is that the right word?

I probably wouldn't be half as invested in current space exploration if it weren't for your blog posts. They're awesome! That's all =)
 Leslie here. We're already seen signs of WEATHER on Pluto from ground-based stellar occultations. Pluto's atmosphere defocus starlight during an occultation, and waves in the atmosphere locally refocuses the light.   So. Fucking. Cool You're very kind, and you're very welcome :) I will echo Ravenchant's sentiments! Wonderful. Seeing what's going on with Pluto's atmosphere is I think my most anticipated finding from the mission. Just the idea of not just an atmosphere, but enough of an atmosphere to have clouds and wind and who *knows* what else, is fantastic.

Here's hoping for dune fields, especially after Rosetta's findings of sand dunes on a *comet*! Will New Horizons' data about Pluto's atmosphere provide enough information for scientists to determine whether that atmosphere (at least some of it) is present during Pluto's entire 248-year orbit around the Sun? Leslie Young here.  Three of here at the reddit (me, Cathy Olkin, and Alan Stern) have all worked on how Pluto's atmosphere varies over its season. New Horizons will give a highly detailed snapshot which can be used to understand decades of telescopic observations and to fine-tune computer models. These all together will give us a much better understanding of how Pluto's atmosphere varies, and how similar atmospheres vary on Triton or other volatile-covered Kuiper Belt objects. I'm just kind of mind blown here right now... What kind of atmosphere does Pluto have?? I thought Pluto was a lunar-like object...

Also, clouds?? in the first question, you wrote about you have tasks like software tool building.... my questions are: What programming languages are you using? What kind of tools? We have software tools for different purposes including helping to analyze the science data, checking the sequences of commands that we send to New Horizons to take data, and managing the downlink of the data.  We have tools written in IDL, python, C. thank you from Spain for your answer. Thanks for doing this AMA! I've got two questions: 

1. When do you think the LORRI pictures will come back that will turn Pluto and Charon from astronomical objects into geological objects?

2. Have you compared the expected data volume from New Horizons' Pluto encounter to other flyby missions? How does it compare to, say, Voyager 2 at Uranus or Deep Impact at Tempel 1? Howdy!  1) A few weeks before the closest approach on July 14th should be the transition between geological object and astronomical object :).  Pluto is already not a point source (a few pixels across  - new pictures will be released later today!)  and a few weeks before we will start being able to make out the albedo patterns, and then actual geologic features as we get closer and closer!

2) That would be a great comparison to do, we haven't yet though :P.   ~Kelsi Just to reiterate, here are the new images :) 
http://pluto.jhuapl.edu/News-Center/News-Article.php?page=20150204 I find it completely amazing that in just 2 days between taking those images, NH has gotten 2.5 *million* kms closer to Pluto. The distances involved are just incredible. Am I reading this right? 2,500,000 km  48 hours = 52k~ km per hour.  http://www.reddit.com/r/IAmA/comments/2ushaj/hi_i_am_alan_stern_head_of_nasas_new_horizons/cobazt5

&gt; New Horizons is traveling at about **14 km per second**

Yep. Absolutely mind blowing. &gt; 14 km per second

To my fellow Americans, that's 30,000 mph, or about 9 miles PER SECOND... Wow Be honest. It was getting close to the end of the day, New Horizons was late with the photos, and you guys freaked out and made that image in MS Paint. It's okay, I would do the same thing. Who gets to name geological formations that New Horizons discovers? Do you already have a list going? :) We do. And yes, we're working on that, no news for a while though.... Sweet. Do I have to die first to get Mt. Wrathell? Hate to say this, but when we name something after people, they are always deceased.  It was nice knowing you /u/Sowff /u/Sowff should do an AMA beyond the grave.  The ultimate karma grab haha Is the surface of Pluto really as colorful as shown in the Hubble photos, or is that an artifact of the digital processing? The colors you see in the Hubble maps are as close to real as I could do.  There's a range of color from neutral and bright, red/brown colors, and black.  It's going to be very interesting to see if all that work was right or not.  (Marc Buie) So we will see colour photos too? I'm often in doubt if pictures of non-planet bodies are even in colour or grey scale because the objects are, you know, mostly grey scale We will be taking color pictures.  The big moon, Charon, will be mostly just shades of grey.  Pluto really will have different colors on the surface.  We just want to know how the colors relate to different geologic regions.  (Marc Buie) &gt; The big moon, Charon, will be mostly just shades of grey.

How many, approximately? 49 51 [The photos for reference.](http://www.nasa.gov/images/content/421596main_s1006ay.jpg)

 Given the extreme range you're dealing with, what is the maximum data rate available to you via the DSN? What frequency and modulation are you using, and how did you decide on a balance between bit error rate and bandwidth? Michael Vincent: The typical rate we can downlink at is 1kbps.  Just a trickle, really.  There are a couple tricks we can play, though.  First off, we can transmit with both our transmitters at the same time.  That can nearly double our rate.  Also, as the DSN station looks higher and higher in the sky, it gets less thermal interference from our own atmosphere here on Earth.  At maximum elevation angles, we can get almost twice the data rate again.  So, the maximum rate we downlink at from Pluto is 4kbps.
 Thanks for taking the time to answer questions. Thats an almost unbelievably high data rate considering the distance. As for being able to double the data rate at high elevation angles, does that mean that the spacecraft is programmed to change its transmit rate throughout a pass? And if so, thats incredible that even with light delay and the planet spinning (and what I assume is very very small half power beamwidths) that the data rate can still be so high with a decent link margin.

Edit: Back of the napkin math says your free space path loss is around 287dB. Thats insane. Michael Vincent: Thankfully, all the geometry is known ahead of time, so we do program the spacecraft to "rate step" through the pass.  Our receiver is sensitive enough to lock to a signal as low as -160 dBm, though our commands are usually received at -120 dBm.  That is what you get when you use a DSN antenna almost as big as a football field, and transmit at 20 kW. Why dont you just ask New Horizons' roommates to stop torrenting when you have important data to transfer? It just sounds really inconsiderate of them. What will New Horizons be tackling after you've finished with Pluto? This is Michael Vincent: We are going to be spending a long time downlinking the goods for sure.  After that, we have identified two potential Kuiper Belt Objects if we get an extended mission approval. &gt; After that, we have identified two potential Kuiper Belt Objects if we get an extended mission approval.

Will these potentially be any of the other 3 already known dwarf planets out there, like Makemake, Haumea or Eris ? Our flyby targets after Pluto are all much smaller than dwarf planets like Pluto and Eris, etc.; they are specifically desired to be the building blocks of dwarf planets, so objects 30-50 km across.  [Here is an article about the potential future flyby targets.](http://www.planetary.org/blogs/emily-lakdawalla/2014/10151024-finally-new-horizons-has-a-kbo.html) Awesome thanks :)

Lack of snark is also appreciate haha.

Cheers  We won't get close to any of the other dwarf planets.  (Marc Buie) aww :c What is the average turn around time for a raw image from LORRI? That is, how long from the time you get an image until it is released to the general public? Also...How long until we get some new pics? There are several aspects to this. These include when the downlink is planned (can be up to weeks or months after the image is taken), then 4.5 hours or so to get the data to the ground, and then same day image processing by our computers. Following that we decide which noteworthy images to release.On a typical day now, zero to one or two images come down. Watch for an image release today. Will there be a raw images page like some missions (ex, Curiosity) have? Where images just get dumped as they come in? Some of us are very impatient for any kind of Pluto pics. ;) There will be! Fantastic! Can you provide me a link to the images dump from Curiosity? Thanks. http://mars.jpl.nasa.gov/msl/multimedia/raw/?s=2#/?slide=888 OHHH! You just made my day! What's your day to day like?  We're all incredibly busy. We have mission sims, encounter planning, dat analysis, software tool building, and outreach activities to keep us busy, and it does, usually 7 days a week. Do you have work/life balance issues with your staff?  That's something we have to manage too.  Dat analysis tho...  Does the Kerbal Space Program count as a mission sim? We have mission simulations of different kinds.  We have operational readiness tests where we go through a process that involves different subsystem teams working together.  We have simulated the closest approach sequence on the spacecraft to make sure it does what we expect. --Cathy I'm not sure but I'm taking this as a yes. Yeah, I think you're right.  They just can't come right out and say it.  TIL NASA uses Kerbal Space Program to run its simulations. They play it, but it's not used for serious simulations. So you're saying I can't work at NASA? :( No, but you might get a job over at /r/ksptomars Tell us something we don't know about NASA. Do you get free stuff? Are there meetings where you learn cool things all the time? How many aliens have you guys captured and do they all live in Idaho? NASA receives less than 1% of the federal budget each year.

Everyone gets free stuff: we post all of the data from our spacecraft to the web for everyone to see.

I have never been to a meeting where I did not learn something new!

There are zero non-terrestrial residents in Idaho. (source: US Census Bureau)

- Curt I work for the Census Bureau, can confirm. Do people get fired from NASA for saying "Oh comon, it's not rocket science!" When faced with some sort of challenge? [it's like this for me](http://i.imgur.com/OSgrhZz.jpg) When will New Horizons cross the heliosphere, and will the probe still be alive by then? This is Michael Vincent: Because the location of the heliopause "breathes" with the activity of the sun and moves by many AU, so the exact date is impossible to determine.  It won't be until the late 2030s at the earliest. Looking forward to seeing the day it joins Voyager 1 (and by then, Voyager 2, and both pioneer probes) in the interstellar medium?

And its spin weights, and spent upper stage. Can't forget them! When will new LORRI images be released? This is Michael Vincent: Keep your eyes on the New Horizons website: pluto.jhuapl.edu.  There should be a new image posted shortly. [And they are here!](http://pluto.jhuapl.edu/News-Center/News-Article.php?page=20150204) What do you think Pluto will look like? And what is Pluto made out of? There will be strong contrast on the surface, really dark and really bright, and other areas in between that will be red/brown colored.  Inside, Pluto is mostly rock and water ice.  On it's surface it has ices made of nitrogen, methane, ethane, and carbon monoxide.  There must be a lot of carbon rich stuff around as well. Will new horizons get out further than voyager? Nope. New Horizons was the fastest spacecraft ever launched, but Voyager had more gravity assists than New Horizons so it is now faster than New Horizons. That is so badass.  Hello! Thanks for doing the AMA, the Pluto flyby is one of the most exciting things happening this year for me =)

Question: Is 1110113Y already confirmed as the follow-up target or is the team still weighing its options?

Question 2: How miffed are you at people referring to Charon as Pluto's moon? We're still evaluating between possible KBO targets. About Charon, it's Pluto's biggest moon, no problem there. It's also a planet in it's own right by my standards, just like the big moons of some closer planets. Sometimes things fit into multiple categories, even on Earth you can be *both* a city and a state. Just ask Google!. -Alan Haha, the city/state comparison is certainly accurate- and often confusing! Thank you very much for answering. I wish all the best to NH! How many other dwarf planets do you suspect are in our solar system that we haven't detected yet? Are we talking about hundreds? Thousands? This is Michael Vincent: In the Kuiper Belt, it is unlikely there are more than a few more that we haven't already detected.  Further out in the Ort cloud, however, there could be many more (could be hundreds or thousands). &gt; In the Kuiper Belt, it is unlikely there are more than a few more that we haven't already detected.

Mike Brown suspects there are none (or possible a few in the galactic plane where we can't easily look) left in the Kuiper Belt.  As for the scattered disk and oort cloud, possibly many more and possibly larger than a few earths in mass. You have often stated that planetary exploration begins with flyby missions, followed by orbiters, then landers, then rovers. If New Horizons finds very intriguing information about Pluto, do we currently have the technology to follow up with a  Pluto orbiter in the near future (next 25 years)?  Let's hope so, plutogirl!  Compared to bodies farther than Pluto, what makes Pluto so special? It's the whole package! Many moons, surface activity, complex and changing atmosphere, clear surface markings, none of the others we know have all those in one system!  Thank you for doing this AMA. I'm a soon-to-be Computer Science graduate with a longstanding interest in all things space. What's the best way to get a career in space development? Should I pursue the academic route of BSc + MSci + PhD, or is there another way? What are some fields of Computer Science that are relevant to space? I'm very interested in sensor fusion and machine learning. This is Michael Vincent: The best way is to start looking around for internships while you are still in school.  As far as degrees, it takes all types.  Pick something you like and are good at, then keep looking for openings. This is Kelsi:  You could look for internships with a big lab like the Jet Propulsion Lab or the Applied Physics Lab - you can contact people there and ask if there is any internships/work that you could do there as a student or new graduate - or look for a place local to you where any space-related science is done and ask there!  There are tons of ways that computer science graduates can be of use to space programs, so don't be shy asking :).   How did you decide on the final shape, instrumentations and the name of New Horizons?
 Alan here. Shape was decided by many design aspects and requirements, but loosely based on the Ulysses probe to Jupiter which also had just 1 RTG, unlike Voyager's 2 RTGs. The instruments were chosen to answer NASA's request for certain data sets and scientific objectives and to be most competitive against other proposals. I chose the name to symbolize the exploration as aspect of the mission.  How is the spacecraft doing on fuel? How much DeltaV is left approx.? Thanks and good luck for the encounter, really looking forward to it. Michael Vincent: We are doing great on fuel.  After Pluto encounter, and all the downlink, we will still have ~130 m/s left in DeltaV. Thanks! Great to know that NH is doing well. Any plans on what to do with that fuel? [Here](http://www.planetary.org/blogs/emily-lakdawalla/2014/10151024-finally-new-horizons-has-a-kbo.html) is an article discussing other possible targets. The object that they are currently looking to go to after Pluto would require 35% of the remaining fuel, meaning there would likely be enough to visit another object after that. What would be the most surprising thing for the team to learn from the data collected on this mission?

Thank you all for doing the AMA and you have lots of supporters out there eagerly awaiting the updates from the probe and the analysis!   Alan here, there is SO LITTLE we know, its hard to guess what would be most surprising. I guess most surprising would be to find there are no surprises.  If you found Arnold's helmet there, when Ms. Frizzle took the Magic School Bus to Pluto, I'd consider that pretty surprising.. I think dancing mastadons would be pretty surprising. How has the discovery of additional moons affected the Mission thus far, at what distance from Pluto would you be able to detect as of yet undiscovered moons (preferably expressed in time rather than distance) and would that allow for any additional changes to the plan ? We should start to be sensitive to seeing additional moons in June. I understand that the spacecraft getting hit by (micro-)meteoroids during the encounter was a concern earlier in this mission. How big is the risk considered to be now? What countermeasures, if any, is the team taking? Our best estimate of the risk of a dangerous impact is now less than 1%. The New Horizons team has done a lot of work in the last two years to understand the risk better, including more sophisticated models of how dust would move in the system. It is always prudent to be prepared: New Horizons is taking pictures when we get close to search for dust, and our team has prepared and tested an alternate set of observations that turns the antenna toward the direction we're moving for a few hours.

- Leslie
 Thanks for taking the time to do this AMA. I've always been curious, what would it take for a spacecraft to be able to orbit Pluto? Could you give us some really rough ballpark figures with regards to the fuel/time/cost requirements for a hypothetical Pluto orbiting mission? Would it be at all feasible with today's technology, or would the weight and other constraints make it totally unfeasible? To get to the Pluto system in only 9 and a half years, we sent a small spacecraft on a large rocket. New Horizons is traveling at about 14 km per second. New Horizons launched on a huge Atlas V rocket to get to that speed. To slow down, we'd need the fuel of another Atlas V! But to carry that, we'd need more fuel, and then more fuel to carry that fuel. 
-- Leslie [deleted] A typical Hohmann orbit transfer to Pluto from Earth would take about 45 years. Hi! I'm an engineering geek. What power level/flux do we receive on earth from NH transmissions? What power does the spacecraft receive from Earth transmissions?
 Michael Vincent: So am I!  Our typical received power at Pluto is around -120 dBm.  Our receiver is so sensitive it would lock to something as low as -160 dBm.   Can you describe the details of the radio science experiment you will do during the Pluto flyby?
 This is Michael Vincent.  I have been lucky enough to work on the RF and REX instrument for the last 10 years!  In broad strokes, the DSN sends up a 20 kW X-band signal that is very very stable in frequency and amplitude.  Onboard, we have an ultra-stable oscillator that the RF system uses to down-convert the signal and send it over to the REX instrument.  REX has a digital filter (also referenced to the oscillator) that splits the signal up into in-phase and quadrature components, and then records it on the Spacecraft.  By analyzing that signal, our scientists can look for any faint wobbles in amplitude and phase, and determine the nature of the atmosphere the signal had to travel through. 10 years ago I was back in primary school (elementary school for you americans), in Dormansland, England, that there was a man or woman who came over to talk about the mission or something, but can't actually remember much, I was 7-8 and not really interested in space and stuff. 

I do remember getting very excited because we were told that everybody's name in the school had been put onto a CD, which itself would be loaded onto the probe and one day reach Pluto.

I'd forgotten of that day until, pretty recently...

So I googled "New Horizons" and "Dormansland Primary School" and came up to [this](http://www.dormansland.surrey.sch.uk/news/detail/new-horizons/) article, which seems to have a certificate of some kind in it.

I was wondering, do you know of this CD at all, is it real or was it just some kind of marketing gimmick (I wouldn't mind don't worry :p), and if it is real can I know more about it.

Also I really wonder who came to talk about it to us, I doubt it was a NASA person, so maybe a UK Space Agency person, so do you have any relations with them regarding this mission?

Thanks for your AMA, and congrats on the success so far, I can't *wait* to see Pluto! It is possible that the person who spoke to you was Andy Lound, The Planetary Society's longtime UK outreach coordinator. [Here is some information about the names disk, including a picture](http://www.planetary.org/get-involved/messages/namesinspace.html#newhorizons); it really is (I'm happy to say) mounted on the spacecraft. Wouldn't this be a liability if alien child predators found the disc? Chris Hansen is also mounted to the space craft, so no worries there! 1. How much speed are you guys planning to bleed off on the approach? Has most/all of the braking already occurred? 

2. When is New Horizons expected to go offline, i.e. having used all of its available energy sources completely?

3. Is there talk of using New Horizons to attempt locating any hidden objects (the extra wobble on the sun) that are exerting gravitational influence? This is Michael Vincent:
1) We aren't really braking on approach.  It is more important to fly through the system at exactly the right point, so that all our pre-planned observations are looking in the right place to find Pluto and its moons.
2) The prime mission will be over when all the data is to the ground, somewhere around the end of 2016.  The RTG power supply will be able to keep critical systems powered until the late 2030s.
3) New Horizons is a Pluto and Kuiper Belt mission, so if we are approved for an extended mission, we will target another KBO (Kuiper Belt Object) and head thataway. It's been a long time since launch, you've probably had time to plan out everything.  What's still uncertain with respect to the encounter (besides what Pluto will be like)? One of the main uncertainties we're working with is planning the final details of DSN (Deep Space Network) planning. That's the data transfer infrastructure, right? What kind of consequences has the insanely slow data transfer rate had? Thanks for working to bring our knowledge of the solar system to... New Horizons.

That said, How fast will the probe be moving relative to Pluto at its closest approach? How much detail will be get on Pluto and its moons? We're moving about 14 km/sec at Pluto, do the math for km/hr or day! We will image Pluto and its biggest moon Charon best, with the very best images having better than 100 meter resolution. For reference, that's MUCH better than many first exploration missions, we're proud of that! Neato. From what I found Pluto has a rotation period of just over 6 days. Will NH have time to image the whole surface? Pluto's rotation period is ~6.4 days and we will have time to image the whole surface multiple times over. How long will New Horizons continue observing Pluto &amp; Charon after the flyby - will you continue until September whilst you still have better than Hubble resolution or do you have to stop sooner because New Horizons can't look too close to the Sun? We have intensive imaging of Pluto and Charon planned through July.  After that, we haven't decided.  As we are flying away from Pluto, the Sun is ~15 degrees away from Pluto as seen from New Horizons and we can take images of Pluto with the Sun that far away. -- Cathy
 How many other moons in stable orbits could there be around Pluto? There could be lots, particularly far from Pluto. In close, the system is gravitationally jammed packed, so we expect at most only a few. But then again, this is first time exploration, so we could be really surprised!  Have you already planned the parameters for your trajectory correction manoeuvre? How much would you miss Pluto without it? We have an opportunity for a trajectory correction maneuver (TCM) March 10.  We are still refining our plans but may have a TCM that would be about a 1 m/s burn.  Without this TCM we could be off by ~10,000 km. Will New Horizon's trajectory take it out of the solar system like Voyager 1 and 2?  If so, will it be headed to specific area?  Does it also contain an encoded greeting to other civilizations? Yes, it is heading out and out.  It does not contain a greeting to other civilizations, but it does contain a CD filled with names of people who wanted to send their names to Pluto. Ever since the discovery of Pluto, what have we (as in, the scientists) learnt so far from it? Since Pluto's discovery in 1930, we have learned many different things about Pluto including it has 5 moons (that we know of today), a thin atmosphere (about one million times less dense than earth), Pluto has a surface with a lot of contrast (dark and bright patches), there are ices of nitrogen, methane, and carbon monoxide on the surface. What challenges do the low levels of sunlight out past Neptune present when photographing objects? The sunlight at Pluto is about a thousand times fainter than it is at Earth. This is about as faint as dusk or dawn here. Just as that isn't much of a challenge for your camera to adjust between noon and dusk, it was not much challenge for the New Horizons visible-wavelength imagers, LORRI and MVIC. For the New Horizons infrared camera, LEISA, and its ultraviolet camera, Alice, we planned our encounter to allow these observation to have long-enough exposure times to gather enough light from Pluto and its moons. What is the next mission that you really hope gets funded (regardless of the likelihood)? You knew this was coming-- our extended mission!  Shout out from Bangalore India.. 2.00 am now.. as per this article http://www.geek.com/science/new-horizons-probe-has-a-1-kilobit-per-second-data-connection-from-pluto-1614967/ NH will be beaming back data from May 15th to May 27th.. means BTH pic will be taken before May 15th?.. Today is also the day when Buie's computer "cleaned up pic of #9 was released 4 years ago.. Its real special day.. Go team NH.. its almost HIGH NOON... so fast.. Cool you're up at 2 am! We'll be imaging a lot in May, we haven't decided yet which images will be the best to send back or exactly when, but you can bet we'll be the most excited people on this planet to get cool new pics to the public!

 Other than visual inspection, what kind of science instruments is New Horizons equipped with, and what could it tell us ? New Horizons is flying two instruments that observe in visible wavelengths (LORRI and MVIC), and six other instruments besides. The Alice ultraviolet spectrograph will mainly study Pluto's atmosphere. The REX radio experiment will also study Pluto's atmosphere and measure the temperature of its surface. The LEISA infrared imaging spectrograph will mainly study the composition of the surfaces of Pluto and its moons. The two plasma instruments, SWAP and PEPSSI, will measure Pluto's escaping atmosphere and its effect on the solar wind. Finally, the Student Dust Counter will measure the dust environment of the outer solar system. 
-- Leslie
 I have to ask this: when Pluto was downgraded from planet status, did everybody on the team curse under their breath? I know this may be an unpopular opinion, but Pluto was demoted for pretty good reasons. We keep finding planetoids and others things in the Kuiper belt, for example, so if we add  everything Pluto size and above as a planet, kids will have to memorize more and more useless objects that are really just equivalent to large asteroids. Additionally, there is some precedent to the demotion, as Ceres was also originally considered a planet until it was discovered that it was just one of many smaller bodies sharing its orbit (as is similar to the case with Pluto). 

So yeah, I get people are half joking and it is a little sad that Pluto can't be grandfathered in, but I think it's nice they erred on the side a long-term, stable definitions for planets. This is especially important now that we're discovering planets around other stars, which is also super cool! :3 And on top of all that, what we call it doesn't change what it is. It doesn't make it less interesting. It will keep circling the sun no matter what we call it. I heard Pluto was thinking about offing itself, said nobody cares about it anymore. Seeing that the New Horizons folks haven't replied yet, I'll just say that I went to school with the daughter of a New Horizons scientist, and he came and did a presentation, and gave a "honk if you think Pluto's still a planet" bumper sticker to the teacher who organized it. Hey guys, thank you for doing this AMA!!  
  
I am a chemist, about half way through my PhD. So here's my question: Do you have any chemists in your team? And what would be the best option as a chemist to get involved in such a program?  
Bonus Question: Does anyone of you play [KSP](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kerbal_Space_Program)? we do have some chemists!  They also have a specialty in some sort of planetary-related field, like spectroscopy, or surface ice chemistry, or atmospheric chemistry :)  If you could find a space-related project at a big lab, like the Applied Physics Lab or the Jet Propolsion Lab, that could be a way in :) - Kelsi What features of Pluto are you most excited to find more about? I hope to see how the bright and dark regions plus the surface composition relate to geologic features on Pluto's surface (Marc Buie) What sort of ISO / how long are the exposures for an image of the planet? Observations with LORRI, our high resolution camera, have typical exposure times of 0.1 sec.  Our color observations, with the Ralph instrument, have exposure times of ~0.6 seconds. -- Cathy Are you using formally verified programming languages to build mission critical software or is that still written in C/C++?

Edit: In light of someone else's question I would like to update this one. Is there any showstopper in adopting formally verified programming languages or is that something that simply hasn't been looked at? Pancakes or Waffles? Michael Vincent: bacon definitely waffles, with granola in them, obviously I've had a lot of fun playing with Mars HiRISE data (http://hirise.lpl.arizona.edu/)...

What kind of data will become publicly available from New Horizons? Michael Vincent: All our data will become publicly available! While you wait for New Horizons' Pluto-Charon data, [you can find all of the Jupiter flyby images here](http://pds-rings.seti.org/search/results/#missionid=New+Horizons&amp;view=gallery&amp;limit=100&amp;page=1&amp;columns=time1,time2,emission1,emission2,incidence1,incidence2,phase1,phase2&amp;open=planet,target,missionid&amp;tab=obs_general). How big is the sun seen from New Horizons? Do you guys play Kerbal Space Program? What is it that you guys are looking for exactly on Pluto? Our mission objectives are really about exploration-- no mission has even been to a Kuiper Belt planet before. So we will be going with eyes wide open to map Pluto and its satellites, map their surface compositions and temperatures, assay the composition and temperature/pressure structure of Pluto's atmosphere, look for new satellites and rings, and to search for an atmosphere around Charon too.There's more, but that's the basics...
 I read once that after Hubble's discovery of more moons around Pluto that there was some speculation of a debris field... did that have any effect on mission planning? How close will NH come to pluto? Is that distance the optimal 'zone' for the camera to get the best shots? If not then why can't NH go closer? New Horizons will fly 12,500 km from Pluto's surface. This is the optimal zone balancing several science goals. The cameras like to see Pluto at intermediate phase angles -- "looking at it sideway" -- and so the distance balances being close to Pluto and having enough time to take pictures at these interesting phase angles.  7700 miles or so and yes. What will New Horizon's relative speed compared to Pluto be at encounter? About 14 km/sec. Is there any new technology which wasn't around in 2006 that you wish could be on the New Horizons spacecraft as it passes Pluto? Is it possible with current day technologie to achieve orbit arround Pluto? And what would it require? An answer to that depends on how much time you have to reach it. If you take your time and do a lot of gravity assists, you could do it, but a future space craft might get there while you still gather velocity, so it would become kind of pointless. Also, probes and their energy sources tend to fail with time. What would have been needed to make the date for closest approach to Pluto on Independence Day like Juno's insertion next year or Deep Impact in 2005 or Mars pathfinder in 1997? We could have done that, but we carefully studied which date would optimize the positions of Pluto and its satellites and July 14 came out far better than any other mid-2015 date. French Bastille Day is not a bad date, by the way. :) Certainly not a coincidence that July 14th is my birthday ;)

 Will New Horizons leave our Solar System? Will it be able to send any data or images after it passes Pluto and the other small KBOs you want to explore? Yes, we're on an escape trajectory from the solar system already. We expect to complete the data download from Pluto by late 2016 (we take data about 1-0-x faster than we can send it back). If we fly an expended mission after Pluto we could be sending new still data for years! How long has this been in the works? This is Marc Buie here.  New Horizons launched in 2006 so the journey across the solar system has taken 9 years.  Sounds like a long time but for me, my journey began in 1982 when I began studying Pluto, helping to learn more and building a case for the flyby this year. Alan here, we won this project in a competition NASA held in 2001! Thank you for the response. Nine years is a little less that a third of my life. It's amazing how vast our solar system is. Considering it's only a speck (not even) in the universe can really mess with your mind.  Have you guys chosen a secondary target to fly by after Pluto yet, or are you still looking? We have two chosen candidates, we're refining the choices, and will pick with NASA in August. Then we have to propose for an extended mission. Down to two small KBOs, mon. Can you give a few details about your flight model? On what computers it is run, how computationally expensive, algorithms, parameters... Do you expect more missions to pluto? Or does it depend on what you find? Side note: You guys must be excited about the budget increase! What kind of improvement in spacecraft velocitiy can we see in the future? Are there some promising technologies that could get us around the solar system much faster? Did you freak out when you discovered that you'd have to tie your reddit account to your real name?  Did you delete a lot? I - luckily- have been pretty good about what I posted on reddit. 

I stand behind what I have posted, before and after ROME SWEET ROME. There's nothing in the history that is shocking or terrifying (I hope). 

 cue at least one redditor gleaning through your comment history like a whale does seawater for krill  He posted in /r/incest a few times. I believe I went in there to make a joke once. YOU SEE HOW THE PAST WILL HAUNT YOU Yeah I once made a joke on one of the NSFW posts that make the front of r/all.  Wife happened to see it... Wasn't good. Why is your wife reading the comments of the NSFW posts? Both of you essentially did the same mistake? No no no, she didn't care about the porn. It was his joke that wasn't good. Lacked cohesion. Rambled on. No real punchline. 4/10  Everybody laughs. Roll on snare drum. Curtains. I look down and whisper, "No." 9/11 would bomb joke again.  She was the OP More likely the wife knows his reddit username and looked at his post history.  "I'm looking for some cheap incense for my bathroom, any recommendations?" - Prufrock451 Cheap incense???? I am ***OUTRAGED***!!!!!!!!!! That sick fuck. So did his sister.  I wonder if that's *related* [ba dum tsh](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8eXj97stbG8#t=25s) Link? http://i.imgur.com/Q5PhqHU.jpg shocking. just shocking. *SLEUTHING INTENSIFIES* Oh, I'm sure we can find *something*  I would have just purged my entire comment history. It all becomes insignificant to me when money is on the line.  PSA: to purge your Reddit comment history, you have to edit each comment as Reddit will archive deleted comments but does not track changes made. Fuck Edit everything to [Deleted]. Problem solved. Good lookin out playboi The internet remembers everything. I can all but promise you there's bots out there sucking everything up to be stored forever. Phrasing boom! Said Ripley to the android Bishop 10/10: would read in H Jon Benjamin's voice again. New writing prompt: You have 24 hours to purge your reddit history... What do you do? So, of course, any updates regarding the production of Rome Sweet Rome?

Also, is there anyway I can order Acadia in digital form? I am from Romania, and it would take a while until a copy would get here... We're still processing stuff through Amazon and expect that we'll be able to get ebooks available through them later today. There's an amazing amount of headache involved in going through a small publisher, but I've had great partners at Breadpig who have helped me from Day One of kickstartering and creating this novel.

Check out the Subscribe link at prufrock451.com: I'll announce when it's available! So that was an adept deflection. Any updates on Rome Sweet Rome?

:) Ha! I was just getting to that.

(I'm writing in the basement of 30 Rock and they just asked my wife and I to briefly go on the Today Show. Lots going on today!)

So here's what I know: the studio bought my draft, and then they commissioned a second draft, and it's very likely they will commission a third draft from another writer who's not me. So the project is not dead: they very much want to make a movie once all the people involved in this project agree fundamentally on a story and a script that does it justice. This is a hard goal, and it's one that a lot of movies never reach. I want it to happen for obvious reasons, but the biggest is this: I've thought from the beginning this would make a great movie and I want to see it. A third writer? Oh so it will probably turn into Seal Team 6 taking out Jesus to ensure Christianity.

Edit: typo &gt;insure Christianity  

Damn, I'd hate to see *that* monthly premium! Acts of god are not covered Comprehensive coverage covers most of  your typical acts of God, aka flooding, fire, falling stuff, projectiles, etc.

What usually isn't covered are acts of terrorism, war, or nuclear detonation  So acts of God are okay but acts in the name of God aren't covered? I feel like there's another movie plot in there. "He paid for your sins, but he can't pay for your mortgage." If you provide them with catchphrases like that, it will get made for sure!

 American Sniper 2: Christian Boogaloo A loving Christian father and a proud American, Curtis Pyle served his country for two massive tours and became the most deadly sniper in US military history. His courage and determination are massive.  The word "impossible" is not a part of his vocabulary. But the word "massive" definitely is.

But when a massive storm occurs in the Middle East and the return of a legend ignites a massive conflict across the entire region, only one man can bring peace. He may be the deadliest man on Earth... but can he kill Jesus Christ himself?

Curtis Pyle is coming. Again.

AMERICAN SNIPER 2: MASSIVE BOOGALOO

EASTER 2015

IT'S GOING TO BE MASSIVE AMERICAN SNIPER 3: MUHAMMED ALI

The most *unlikely* pair travel back in time in order to stop the Hitler from taking over the medieval crusades. This summer, Curtis Pyle joins world famous boxer Muhammed Ali in the buddy comedy of the year. Guest starring James Franco and Seth Rogan.  Modified Exploder script.

He was a man of peace living on a quiet farm in North Dakota. Till one day all Hell broke loose.

"Curtis we need you!!"

"I'm a man of God now, I'm done killing. I just wanna raise a family and go to Church."

"That's just it, Curtis. They've got Jesus!"

"NOOOOOO!!!!!!" American Sniper 2: Passion of the Christ The first movie to make a billion dollars in its first weekend. &gt; Oh so it will probably turn into Seal Team 6 taking out Jesus to ensure Christianity.

No, they need to figure out how to add a romance to pull in the female demographic, because the latter typically turns away from war epics. Guarantee the final script will have an army officer falling in love with a local woman, and the officer will be torn between the woman he loves* and his loyalty to his unit.

*Of course, back in Roman days, hygiene was a whole different thing, but [she'll look like she just came out of a modern salon](http://static.guim.co.uk/sys-images/Arts/Arts_/Pictures/2013/7/15/1373896819557/Cleopatra-1963-011.jpg). Hygiene sure was different. You've surely heard of the Roman baths. Romans had an obsession with cleanliness. Baths were, in addition to being a place where one might clean ones self, social nexuses and places of political dealing and debate. Throughout the time of the Empire, conservative Romans decried excessive use of the baths, as they thought them a luxury. It was not uncommon to say that a roman went to the baths every day. There were often free baths for the lowborn, not just in Rome but throughout the Empire. Meanwhile I haven't showered in three days. So who's more civilized? &gt; So who's more civilized?

Is "not you" an option? Better than John Wayntilla the Hun . . . John Waynghis Khan* In 2006 I sold a screenplay to a major studio after years of work. They paid me a big option, gave me a William Morris agent, I moved to LA and told everyone I'd made it. Three genuine A-list actors were "attached," and I had star-struck meetings with all of them--all super enthusiastic--as well as a cool young director. Then one of the actors had a scheduling problem, and production was delayed. Then by the time they found a replacement, a B+-lister, the director dropped out. Then the financing and the insurance had a dispute. Then another actor who was SO SORRY blah blah blah had to pull out.

That was 2006. It's still "in development" and I have to have a call at least once a week updating me on the latest cool person that's read the script and loved it, I've had at least 30 lunches about this stupid movie, and I'm tired and want to go home. The studio clearly doesn't really want to make the film, but with the infrastructure they have there's no reason for them not to string me along indefinitely just in case something in it becomes Zeitgeisty and it makes bottom-line sense actually to shoot it. They are all of them, the producers, execs, actors, inveterate liars and frauds.

Good luck. I've always wondered how this thing works.  So if you moved to LA and are having regular meetings... is the studio paying you?  Are you earning a salary to sit there and take these go-nowhere meetings?  Or was it just that one-time option payment - and you do all this ongoing legwork just out of hope for your project? It's nightmarishly hard, so much more so when you have a bit of hope for such an unlikely thing. I've just had a small taste of what they're serving you. I'm grateful for your wishes and I hope the same tenfold for you. Were you able to get anything in your contract to stipulate that you regain control of the IP if the movie isn't made in 5 or so years? I hear that's a good way to prevent the above. (And probably make it harder to sell a script) What's to stop the studio from putting out a 10 minute anime version of the script, just to meet that clause and retain the rights? Something [veeeery similar](http://io9.com/the-real-story-about-that-wheel-of-time-pilot-that-aire-1684773094) just happened to the "Wheel of Time" tv series that has been in the works forever... Supposedly, that sort of contract is also the reason why [this *amazing* unreleased 1994 fantastic 4 movie](http://i.imgur.com/A8A2uoj.jpg) was made. A 10 minute version wouldn't be considered feature length, it would have to be 60 minutes for that...plus sometimes a film could require a theatrical release to fulfill some conditions (which is why some movies get released in one theatre for one weekend only).

So it really depends on the contract. &gt;and I'm tired and want to go home

This made me laugh and be sad at the same time.  Tl;dr I got paid a bunch of money for an unused product, changed my life but didn't follow up with another project and now I'm not sure what to do.

I mean that sucks, but you've got an agent (or had), sold a script, and made connections. [Serious] Are you bankrupt or in a worse financial position than before? Have you written anything else since that optioned script? Have any other things been optioned or made? &gt; They are all of them, the producers, execs, actors, inveterate liars and frauds.

I'm sure through this process you have dealt with a couple douches, but we are not all liars and frauds. I think, you also had the unfortunate fortune of not being in the business and having any foundation or experience when it all started. Making a film takes a whole shit ton of factors to all line up just right. It's complicated. One of those factors is a great script. It really sucks that this isn't a concrete means to an end, and that it takes so many other people to make things happen just so, and that some of them are strictly in it for themselves. But, most of us aren't liars and assholes. Also, if your passion is screenwriting this experience should have/has opened doors for you to other pitches, sales, writing assignments. Have you been able to make a living as a writer since this all started? Have you learned a lot? I really hope that at the very least you have learned to surround yourself with quality people. Three writers? Are you going to be the lead writer, final decision maker?  Will you have power in the process to demand your creative vision or is Warner Bros going to turn this into what they think an audience wants to see? Anytime you start a project with a $100 million dollar budget, a few people are going to want a say in how it turns out - especially if they are putting out the $100 million dollars.

So I went in expecting this whole thing to be a very collaborative process. I went in expecting my ideas to be only part of what ended up on screen. And I made my peace with that, before I wrote one word of the screenplay, which is what you have to do if you want to stay sane.

As far as what happens next, or who gets credit for the final screenplay, that just depends on which ideas the studio ends up liking and which resonate with the plot that gets devised. And I don't have a lot of control over that process. And all I can really do is what I've done until this point, which is do the best work I can, keep a positive attitude. 

 If someone hasn't already reassured you regarding credit, please let me: if the movie gets made, you will definitely be credited for the final screenplay. Screen credits for studio projects are governed by the WGA and every writer is given an opportunity to dispute the proposed credit. If someone disputes the proposed credit, it goes into a very stringent arbitration process at the WGA where the final credit is decided. The process notoriously favours the first writer on the project (search "WGA arbitration" and you'll find lots of stories about projects in which someone was credited even though not a single word of their draft appeared onscreen.) Also, as the originator of the idea, you automatically earn an undisputed "Story By" credit, so at the bare minimum you will get that. But I'll wager money that as the writer of the first two drafts, the worst case scenario is that you'll get a "Screenplay By" credit shared with one other writer. That only happens in the event that someone else can prove that they contributed a certain percentage of original material to the final shooting script, and some contributions count for more than others - brand new characters, scenes and story beats count for something, new dialogue counts for almost nothing. In the case of an original screenplay (which yours was), I believe subsequent writers have to prove that the original material they contributed was 50% or more. (I believe it's 33% on a script adapted from any kind of source material.) So you're also in with a good chance of getting sole credit (in which case it'd be "Written By" because you wrote both the story and the screenplay.)  

Not gonna lie, the arbitration process is kind of hideous and gruelling, but if this wasn't stuff you already knew, I hope it's helpful in some way in assuring you that if the movie gets made, you'll get your well-deserved credit. it's going to be the latter. he sold his original idea and rights to the studio and at this point it's up to them to figure out how to make it happen. unfortunately OP has little power in the process; he needs to let it play out and see how much (if any) of his original work is going to be in the final product. Shit, dude, I hate to be the one to tell you this, but it's "asked my wife and *me*." *takes off crown*

My kingdom is now yours. You had a good run
 And this is why editors make the big bucks! Hey! Did your comments get a movie deal? I didn't think so. Don't question the talent! He and the two dick guy are all we've got! Coming to a theater near you...

In a world where no one can tell the difference between their and there, one man stands against complete societal breakdown... And the Jews. 

Grammar Nazi

This summer, Schindler's List gets an editor.  So when is UHF 2 coming out so that this preview can be seen by all? what are you? a languager? I thought for a sec that Rome Sweet Rome was going to be a novel before it was adapted into a screenplay and got super excited. 

Honestly, Rome Sweet Rome would make a sick mini-series.  I was discussing that possibility with my manager when Warner Brothers called him and said "Can this be a movie?" 

When that happens you say "YES WARNER BROTHERS IT SURE AS SHIT CAN" Until it comes out 4 years from now as Fury 2.

LOGLINE:

"The little Sherman that could."

The Fury crew is accidentally sent back in time using secret Nazi technology and finds itself facing off against a 7 legion army of terrified Romans. Do they have what it takes to survive? Will Don Wollier ever see the love of his life again?

Directed by: M. Night Shamalamadingdong "Caligula 2 : Electric Boogaloo"
 Caligula vs. USMC?

.....OK! Caligula vs. USMC the XXX parody of itself because Caligula.

thats......thats going to be a whole lotta fuckin. It says that you have a book reading somewhere in Manhattan, but I couldn't find any details about that. Is the reading still going to happen, where? At 6:30 tonight, 155 Rivington! 

Check out /r/acadia, there's a post about it.  &gt; 155 Rivington

Not sure I'll make the 6:30 reading, but hopefully you will be there a few minutes after signing your book? Please? :)

EDIT: Will you be selling copies of your book there? &gt; still processing stuff through Amazon

Oh, so a while then.

&gt; ebooks available through them later today

The internet is so awesome. Here's the Kindle version: http://www.amazon.com/Acadia-James-Erwin-ebook/dp/B00TPWXT6Q

Worked for me, reading now. How much did they pay you for the screen play?  My stock reply is "more than reasonable and less than desirable." $36,549.89 going by that reply. You were probably thinking you'd get 50K for the initial idea and then more later on if this goes any further. 

You got that amount, which is still huge for a reply you posted on reddit. So it's still more than "reasonable" but less than "desirable".

I dont know. The WGA minimum is anywhere from 70k to 120k, for an original screenplay.

edit for clarification: it's either 70k (low budget) or 120k, not a range. Did he write the entire screenplay? The first draft, yes. They had a second draft written and it looks like they plan on having a third written. I'm guessing $36,549.90. Don't go price is righting his ass. I play to win.  i'll take 1 dollar bob Is it hard to walk with a horseshoe buried in your backside? I must have literally drowned in shit in my last life because I'm not sure opening the door for old ladies justifies the luck I've had in this one. But you seem to appreciate it which makes it OK. I really do. I've been incredibly lucky. I do not understand this colloquialism.  He's referencing how luck OP is in life and in general (the horseshoe being a lucky charm) I thought it meant a horse kicked him in the ass, and some savages think horses are lucky What is your book Acadia about? And what gave you inspiration to write such a novel? Acadia takes place a hundred years from now, when humanity is on the verge of reaching for the stars. A secret force which has manipulated the course of the 21st century threatens all of humanity, and a small group of humans and AIs must fight to change the course of history. 

The book came out of an idea I had a few years ago of a woman alone in space, which, a year before Gravity, was an exciting new thing. Books take a long time.  How did you come up with Acadia as a title? I come from an area known as Acadia: the modern eastern Canadian provinces of Nova Scotia and New Brunswick. The area was dubbed Acadie by the first French settlers in the area, who later came to identify themselves as Acadians. The Acadian people were largely displaced in the first incidence of European on European ethnic cleansing in America (many notably settled in Louisiana and evolved from 'Cadians to 'Cajuns) but the name lives on: I am currently studying at Acadia university in Wolfville, NS.
I guess I was just wondering if your novel is somehow tied into the history of Acadia or whether there is another source for the title. A diaspora of people displaced by the machinations of duelling, largely disinterested far off empires...in space! actually sounds pretty awesome. How does one actually write an encyclopedia?  Do you use other encyclopedias as reference and then just re-word it in your own style? I read hundreds of sources, everything from books to old letters and memoirs and naval logs. Wherever I could, I relied on primary sources. It's exhausting work and as satisfying as it was I don't think I'll be doing another. Were you hired to write the encyclopedia or did you just do it? It's gotta be so hard to not miss something. You must have done this before the internet came out, right? I just don't understand why we would need new encyclopedias with the internet. I worried quite a bit about that, but my job was to provide a comprehensive overview, not every possible fact. And the Internet, as vital as it is for research, hasn't yet removed the necessity for encyclopedias. Wikipedia is, stone-cold, the last resource humanity needs for something like atomic numbers, but it's far from perfect when it comes to something like history that relies on interpretation. Baah, i hoped that the it was a proof of NOT finding a four-leaf clover... - Instead it was just a random bloke on twitter :( I can, given a day or two, come back with a notarized statement that I've never found one, but that's all I've got! Not good enough, I'd like a picture of you with all the 4 leaf clovers you haven't found. 

Otherwise what is the point. Pics or it happened!  Hi, your wife here. Any plans for your next adventure? Hey I have a question for you! What was it like when your husband was first like "Uhhh so I wrote this reddit comment..." My wife would have to eat a bucket of crow if my constant redditing ever made us rich and famous. A bucket of jackdaw?  Here's the thing... So to confirm, yes you are actually my wife.

My next novel or my next story (not necessarily my next adventure) - I think that so much of what's happened to me has just been accepting the opportunities, and making the most of the opportunities I have had in my life, and I think that a big part of that is *your* presence in it.

*I'm making Victoria type this! Hahaha!* Umm...i think she meant your bedroom adventure...
*cough cough* 50 shades of rome *cough cough* Tossing some Caesar salads. I think combining both 50 shades and Rome would actually just be a rape/torture/murder spree, which would really just be Rome.  You don't really need to add anything to Rome, it more or less covers any debauchery that doesn't include robots. What weird thing do your knees do?  Oh!

Someone posted proof of that. Hold on.

I'm in too deep now. I gotta do it.

*completely rotates knees outwards into bowlegged stance and begins to walk around office with arms outstretched, then pops them back in*

That's what they do.  Photo: http://i.imgur.com/8mq6oYC.jpg Ooooh. I got a friend who does that. His name is Legs. That's all he does. He is very boring otherwise. I'm glad you got more going for you! &gt; I got a friend who does that. His name is Legs. That's all he does.

I can't shake the feeling that you're just talking about your legs, not an actual person. And now I am convinced that Victoria is there... kneerly everything -Maslow's Hierarchy of Kneeds WHAT THE FUCK IS UP WITH YOUR KNEES? I weirded them up playing soccer in high school! I'll get a picture up later. I'm holding you to it. Hey! If you are looking for an overweight guy who sits on the computer all day for your movie can i audition for it? Many thanks for this AMA! If there wasn't already an overweight guy in front of a computer this story wouldn't exist. :) Do writers have to be full of emotions to write a novel? Sometimes when I got frustrated I tend to write them down, but my writing grades aren't good,is that means I am not a born writer?  Look, every human is born to tell stories. Our feelings are unique and they are important. Our ability to share what we are feeling and thinking is one of the most incredible things in the universe. Never be ashamed of writing. Never be afraid to speak out. 

You don't have to be full of emotions to write: Look at the popularity of novels by, say, Asimov or Heinlein, which are pretty Olympian and detached and seem to do fairly well. 

Your grades are a snapshot of what one person thinks of one part of your writing at one point in your life. That doesn't define you as a writer. You should always welcome feedback and use it to improve. Experiment with different styles and in different genres. It will take you some time to find your voice, and probably more time to find an audience for it. 

But never, never believe it's impossible. Never think that you are not a born writer. Writers are made. They make themselves.  Fantastic reply. Fifty pages into my novel and I really needed to read this. KEEP GOING.  YES /u/bengigameur is secretly George R.R. Martin, at a depressingly short distance into The Winds of Winter.  KEEP GOING. Haha! No, I'm the stereotypical redditor down to a t. Sorry to disappoint! That's JUST what GRRM would peck out with two fingers over the course of seven minutes I... I type with three fingers.... That was a pretty comprehensive response.

I give it a 94/100 A. hey Prufrock451, you should be a writer. So I read that Rome Sweet Rome ran into difficulties because several other result users contributed parts and they all want to receive credit + remuneration. Is that true?  I always felt that their contributions were hollow and blatantly pitching in on the popularity of the first post as he had so many upvotes already.  I do wonder -- who came up with the original prompt? Didn't they really come up with the idea? I am a (somewhat) aspiring author. I write a lot on /r/Writingprompts and people there have gotten to know me a bit.

I am currently working on a book based on a writing prompt ([An alternate history where Rome never fell](http://www.reddit.com/r/Luna_Lovewell/comments/2l5mej/writing_a_book/)), and hope to finish it by the end of this month. I have [my own subreddit](http://www.reddit.com/r/Luna_Lovewell/) where I post all of my stuff that I kind of use as a proxy for having my own blog/website. So when I go to pitch the book to a publisher, I will have to talk about that (because it is important for first-time authors to have an established audience like you do).

My question is: how did your following on Reddit help you get a publisher on board for Acadia? When speaking with a potential agent or publisher, how did you describe Reddit itself and your interactions with the community?  The publicity was a huge help. I've landed interviews on national radio and I've been on TV in Canada and Japan and I've had all kinds of other ridiculous opportunities no first-time author should get. Without RSR, there's no way I'd have launched a successful Kickstarter campaign. 

And the publicity also convinced editors at a few publishing houses to reach out to me; Acadia grew out of a book proposal for Amazon's publishing wing, and editors at a couple of the Big Five houses want to see my next manuscript. Super lucky.

Virtually everyone I've talked to in publishing understands Reddit, and the value of that instant feedback and community, and they also understand some of the limitations involved in working on Reddit. I'll tell you what, though, when it comes to the Terms of Service: if someone really wants to buy your work they will find a way. So the secret is to have publishers banging down your door. Got it. Ha! Exactly. If I knew the formula to make that happen, I would not have a day job. With publishers banging down your door, did you ever consider why did you choose self publishing? 

I see [articles by Hugh Howey](http://www.salon.com/2013/04/04/hugh_howey_self_publishing_is_the_future_and_great_for_writers/) about his experience with self publishing and think "that makes a lot of sense", but i've never seriously looked at the situation. I'd be interested to know if you considered it, and what affected your decision. 

Edit: /facepalm 
it would appear that Acadia is self published, and that also, i cannot do basic logic or read with any sort off comprehension. Post edited to ask the right question. I love all your stuff Luna! I love ancient Rome and can't wait for your novel! :) Alright let's get to it. How much did you make from the sale? And did reddit take a cut? Reddit actually made a message about that, saying reddit would not take a cut of written content created on reddit, wanting to foster open creativity or something There are some numbers, which are out there, if you do a little bit of research. But I don't think I'm really allowed to talk about it. Suffice to say that I was treated very fairly, and I think that the sum was part of a good decision. And reddit did not take a cut.  According to Reddit's podcast, they didn't take any percentage. Did you find some kind of method for converting reddit karma into real-world karma? The only trick I know is putting yourself in situations where something exciting might happen. Cultivate an attitude of excitement and curiosity, and things tend to fall in place. Easier said than done, and Lord knows individual results may vary. Do you stay in touch with /u/The_Quiet_Earth, the creator of the Ask Reddit post that lead to Rome Sweet Rome? Did he/she get any credit for basically originating the idea?  How did they contact you for the rights to your reply?  Through Reddit's messaging system! That was a crazy-ass day. Wild, was it an "official" account or just someone's personal account that worked for them? Congrats, so here are my questions.

* How did you get the inspiration of Rome sweet Rome?

* Did want to be a writer?

* How do you cope with fame?

* Have you ever tried to eat your fries with Mayonnaise?

* What is your favourite colour?

Thank you and good luck with the sale of your book and good day.

 Thank you! 

-Rome Sweet Rome (as you can see in the link I posted) was a response to a question on Reddit. Everything sort of clicked and I punched that whole thing out in an hour. I'm not entirely sure how, or I'd do that over every lunch hour. 

-Always. And it's what I've done as a day job for years (writing software manuals and other documentation), so I had some preparation when all this happened.

-I have a very comfortable level of fame where virtually no one ever anywhere realizes I'm famous* but I still get to tell fun stories at cocktail parties. 

*This may actually be the definition of "not famous."

-I love fries with mayo. Well, like three or four fries with mayo. I'm 40, I can't eat piles of junk like I used to. 

-Green? What does that say about me? Am I a madman?  have i gone mad?

im afraid so, but let me tell you a secret. All the best people are.

 Lewis Carrol What did you do before your writing career took off? Did you always plan to work commercially as a writer and did you have some sort of fall back plan in case that didn't work out? I work for a massive corporation. For me, writing screenplays is my fallback plan. :)

If this had happened back when I was a single barista, I'd be sweating it out in LA right now. But I'm a plump suburban dad with a wife and kids and dogs and a mortgage and a big deck and that whole deal. 

I don't regret that choice. I'm incredibly grateful for the opportunities I've had.  Tell us more about that big ol' deck... Have you ever talked to Andy Weir?  He didn't start on reddit but he does reddit ( /u/sephalon) and his online story The Martian is being made into a movie. Just wondering if he would be able to give you any tips of pointers to move the movie along. 

Edit: I also grew up in Iowa so thanks for representing us well! I loved The Martian and I'm really excited to see the movie. Never talked to Andy, though. 

(And go Hawks!) You're an Iowan?  Sweet.  Do us proud! The first sign of a successful Iowan is getting out of Iowa Iowan here. Does not hold true when getting out of Iowa means finding a job in South Dakota. 

Moved back to Iowa and now it seems awesome compared to South Dakota, so at least there's that. Whoop! Iowa has another proud achievement! GO HAWKS! Do you have any advice for those of us just out of college with eng and creative writing degrees? And what's up with your knees? Write every day, read every day. Before any talent or big idea, you need to have the fundamentals down cold, and the most important fundamental is producing words. 

And if you're going to write, write what you want to write. The odds against any creator are insane. If you're going to devote months of your time, don't let it be for an idea you think will sell. Odds are it won't. Write something you want to write, or need to write. Write for yourself before anyone else. I'd rather read someone who is excited and passionate about what they want to say than someone who's obviously trying to say what they think I want to hear. But seriously what's up with your knees?  This is exactly what I needed to hear. I just decided to transfer to a school where I will switch to an English major with emphasis on creative writing. I have been so nervous that I will never do anything worthwhile with it. The idea of me writing what I want to write rather than write what I think people want to read gives me hope. Thank you for sharing this advice.  Get a job? I have a job! I'm a professional redditor!

Shit, one of these days I'll sell a comment on a movie idea for millions, or I'll post some hilarious picture that goes viral and then sell t-shirts for it. Just wait. How was your experience with "upvoted"? Do you think it will be a successful podcast? I certainly hope so! I loved talking with /u/kn0thing and I'm excited to meet Alexis in the flesh today. That rich buttery voice! HOW DO I ALWAYS END UP IN THE PLACE THAT YOU'RE NOT?! :( * What was the final jeopardy question you were asked?
* How firm was Alex Trebek's handshake?
* Are your knees the source of your special powers?
* What would taste better? MREs or Moretum. I was asked three questions and biffed them all. I bet $15,000 on the last one. "No one's gotten a Final Jeopardy all week. It has to be easy. I'll bet a lot." NOPE. It was something along the lines of "this phrase started out meaning 'a substitute for correction'" and I got it super-wrong and went home. Still: I got to gamble $15,000 in front of millions of people and that was fun. 

Trebek's handshake is exactly right. The man oozes professionalism.

My knees are the source of my most special power, which is complaining about moving. I think MREs would be great with a healthy splash of garum.  First of all, I want to say that Rome Sweet Rome is one of the oldest threads that I actually remember reading live, and I think that's awesome. 

Second, how long after you wrote the short story were you approached by/did you approach a studio? As an aspiring writer I want to know how quick someone can make it big. Hey Prufrock, I noticed your Amazon page for Acadia lists you as the "critically acclaimed author of Rome, Sweet Rome". Did you write that description yourself? Do you consider yourself critically acclaimed if Rome hasn't been fully fleshed out?
 What is your favorite dinosaur? If my sons were in the room, I would have to say Spinosaurus because they both dearly love that big bastard.

But truthfully, my favorite is Therizinosaurus. Big lazy happy sloth-thing with claws that will destroy anything that comes too close. Why are you so lucky? Do you do weird rituals? *puts on Boba Fett Helmet*

I generally don't put on a Boba Fett helmet. This is a new and wonderful thing for me...

*It's so beautiful inside here! I can hear the badassery! I want to say something badass like I throw a steak at a wall, and eat it before it descends to the ground*

As far as rituals go, the one ritual I have is... one thing that I try to do is I try to just leave myself open to new things. And I try to put myself in situations where fun things could happen. I got my first book deal because I (on a whim) sent a paragraph to a publisher, asking "Hey, can I publish this book?"

I got on JEOPARDY! because I decided *Hey, let's take a test.*

I got ROME SWEET ROME because I went on reddit and said  *I could write a story, and it might be crazy, but I'll go ahead and write it anyway.*

And I mean- I've been rewarded, pretty well, for just deciding to take a chance on things.

And that's not always easy to do, you know? It's not always easy to throw yourself into the sea of Fate.  But as far as a ritual goes, that's probably as close as I get when this sort of thing happens.  Photo: http://imgur.com/Tf3hFwI Oh, no! He's wearing a red shirt. Probably only has seconds to live.

Oops. Sorry. Wrong SF mythos. cool In the spirit of "creating situations where cool things can happen"...

Can I have a reddit t-shirt? I see them in the background of that awesome helmet picture.

Or...was that not going big enough? How about, if I write you a story that makes you cry, will you trade me that helmet? Op is too kind. Will you be writing more following this story? What could we expect for the future of your series? I have a few ideas in progress, but mostly I'm dealing with the aftershocks of this novel. I've written a couple of anthologized stories as well. 

I would love to do a sequel to Acadia in the future, depending on the response to the book, and I have some ideas laid out for that as well which are TOP SECRET. Are there any that might be considered BOTTOM SECRET? THOSE ARE MY OWN SPECIAL STORIES Hahaha, thank you for this reply. I had a very needed genuine laugh. 

And for some reason I read it in the voice of Red from That 70's show. Also added a Dumbass to the end of it. Dang it! Throw us a bone. Give us a hint! It's too late, he wrote it in all caps, it's set in stone now. Who requested you to go on KL&amp;H? assuming you now have an agent, is that something that they say: "This should be good for you" ? I came here for the wifi (and it's on the way to the Reddit office from my hotel, where I'll be answering more questions with Victoria later!) and a staffer approached my wife and I, so we'll have a funny story about a white lie she told me on the air tomorrow. Completely unrelated. Fun stuff happens to us, it seems... We now have him here! So, I'm working on a novel that tweaks history to fit it into my narrative. Do you find it easier or more difficult to work with an established timeline/history? Thanks! As a trained historian I can tell you that, for better or worse, there are a thousand people interested in a great story for every one who wants hyper-accuracy... I like that! Thank you. I'm hoping my story is compelling enough to get away with the license I'll be taking with the source material.  Fuck you, James. Sincerely, an unpublished author hopeful.

In all seriousness, though, congratulations, it's nice to see someone succeed.

My question is: what was your experience with editors? What exactly is their role? Do they bust your balls for spelling and other minute mistakes, or are they more of a broad scope kind of people who give their input on plot points, inconsistencies, stuff like that, while silently correcting your messed up punctuation? With all these amazing opportunities, what would you say has changed the most in your day to day routine? *sighs*

Boy! I think something that I try to do a lot more now is leave room to create something, whether it's working on my book, I write articles, I have ideas for a couple other novels that I've been drafting and working on... This has taught me that you never know when an opportunity is going to strike and there is just no reason not to try and meet it halfway.  What a good thing to change! And thanks for the reply :) How long have you been looking for a four-leaf clover?  I remember reading your post! Have you ever taken a look at the comic "Pax Romana" by Jonathan Hickman (of The Nightly News and Fantastic Four fame)? I couldn't help but notice some very striking parallels.  Just wondering-how much did WB change from your original story?  Are you going to write "Faster Than The Speed of Love", next? Hahahahahahaha...thanks for the solid laugh ! I needed that to get me through work. Are there any kindle versions available? Sorry to ask, but I hate reading physical books.  Very soon, hopefully! Check out the Subscribe link at prufrock451.com: I'll list it as soon as possible. Wait...what's the thing with your knee? Soccer. Not even once. I'm so lost. Congratulations! How many drafts did you write for Acadia until you were happy? When you were editing, did you completely rewrite the story, or was it more of a fiddling with paragraphs? There are part of ACADIA that I worked on, over and over, and there are parts of ACADIA that i punched out so quickly that I didn't remember them until I read them in the book myself.

When you have an idea *that* big, and you work on it, some parts of it click right away and some parts of it you have to work on it, and sometimes you have to back out of the story you've written yourself into. So I can't say all of ACADIA is first draft or fifth draft - some of it is about as raw as RSR was, and some of it I crafted very meticulously.  did you want Charlie and Emilio to become actors ? No and I still don't This is the most brutally honest AMA I have read. Thank you for that, its great. The Jose Canseco AMA is still the gold standard of AMA's. Literally everything in that was platinum-level awesome. [deleted] Wouldn't it be funny if one of them also had a successful career playing a president!  OMG, the comparisons! Charlie Sheen played the president in Machete Kills.  That's not exactly comparable, of course. I think we're safe burn Got damn.  What's next?  Created by Aaron Sorkin That was a lot funnier than post hoc ergo propter hoc. Dear God I hope this is hinting at a new Sorkin show in development. Hi Martin, 

Big fan of the West Wing and many others of your work. 

Quick question, is the amazing way you put on a jacket as the president one of the characters traits or do you really look that awesome putting on a coat? 

Thanks!  It's actually because of a birth defect - my left shoulder was crushed at birth which I've learned to accommodate. 

Putting on a coat is one such accommodation. Gee, thanks for noticing. 

 Mr. Sheen, that's been one of my favorite signatures of yours from the show, which I've re-watched beginning to end every year!

For everyone else, a quick YT primer on the subject: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=uMFuarTK9Mw Here it is in "Badlands":

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kOhDvz7ETC8 gosh he was so cute! &gt;John Spencer pops up.

I guess I haven't hit my feels quota for today. John Spencer is about the only actor on the West Wing with equal charisma to Martin Sheen. Knowing he's gone also helps to make every scene he's in have more impact. "MARGARET!"  Whos next? *Ms. Landingham?!?*

Edit: Spoiler alert... Spoiler alert, man. Gah. But I actually just watched that episode last night. Not ashamed to admit I teared up a bit. 
 I put on my jacket that way because I learned how too off of the West Wing. You're not the only one! Same here - it's a nice piece of flair in a boring setting. It's the jacket version of Riker's sitting-down thing.  The astonishing [jacket flip](http://youtu.be/NV2fXoYmELA?t=26s) My wife has the same issue with her right shoulder.  She has interesting ways of doing a lot of things.  Putting on her seat belt is one that I started using because it is just easier on the shoulder. Mr Sheen, I absolutely loved you as the illusive man in mass effect. Do you have any cool stories from working on the games? Thanks! Thanks for the comment on the "illusive man" but in fact, I am an illusive man as the technology required to actually play the darned disc has completely eluded me.  Wouldn't it be Elusive Man, then?  The pun would work better if this wasn't a text-based interview, now wouldn't it? LOL.  Martin Sheen getting snarky.   He'll fit right in here, then... [One of us!](https://nypdecider.files.wordpress.com/2014/12/one-of-us.gif?w=530) I volunteer to play the game with you. Have you ever turned down a role you later wished you had taken? Yep - Blade Runner.  I could imagine reading that script and saying, "Wait, you want me to star in a movie where the protagonist is getting the shit kicked out of him for two hours?" Sounds like the recap of pretty much ALL of Harrison Ford's movies. Regarding Henry :(

Edit: gold? For that? Don't mind if I do, thanks. It's my first gilding. Well, it worked for Clint Eastwood in *A Fistful of Dollars*. Out of curiosity, why did you pass on that film? Prior commitments? Aren't you the time travelling marines vs Romans story guy? ayup!  There is a rumor in the movie industry that in the opening sequence of "Apocalypse Now", the scene where you were drunk and punched the mirror, you were actually drunk and crying legitimately, and that you did not want that footage shown in the film, is this true? Yes Your honesty makes me feel like a terrible person. Thanks for bringing all that back, jerk! It's a testament to your acting ability that people question whether it was real or not. You can see a longer cut of that scene in "Hearts of Darkness." WATCH IT. All I can say to people. Fantastic documentary. Didn't expect him to answer this one Martin Sheen is killin' it in this AMA. 10/10 would lurk again. Maybe someone gave him advice, that the best approach in reddit ama is to answer truthfully.  
"Mr Sheen, reddit has a thing for deep digging stuff.  
Remember the boston bombing ?  
Well, they didn't get the right guy...but the point is..." Deep digging and shallow but vast outrage. That isn't a rumor. He literally stated this in many interviews.  I really loved your episode of [Columbo](http://www.imdb.com/title/tt0069905/), any memories of filming it you could share?  Has the process of creating series tv changed a lot since then? My fondest memory was when my "dead body" was discovered by one of my favorite actors, Vincent Price. He said "oh dear" which made me burst out laughing.  Mr. Sheen, thank you so very much for doing this AMA.  

*The Way* seemed like a very physically demanding picture and a very personal picture for you to do with Emilio.  As hard as it may have been, did you enjoy the process of working with your son?  Especially on a picture that relates to family lineage?

P.S.  I recently saw *Badlands* for the first time and it was a fantastic film. The Way is the best film I've ever done in my life and the most rewarding thanks to my son Emilio who wrote it for me and directed it as well. He was quite brilliant and I am eternally grateful.  It was very apparent that that film meant a lot to you and your family.  It showed in the performances.  It was inspiring to watch and a joy to know that what you guys had created could be shared with the world.

Thank you very much for answering my questions. I know I'm late to the party, but I have to say this was one of the most touching movies I've seen.   I just watched it last night. I've wanted to walk the Camino for years and the film has really inspired me to see if I can speed up the process, and I'm aiming for this summer. I'm currently discerning a call to religious life (Benedictines, baby!!), so hopefully I'll get it done soon incase I wind up in a habit! Badlands is one of my favorite films ever What are the chances of a Charlie/Emelio/Martin movie? It would be epic. Wouldn't that be something! A Mighty Ducks sequel, Charlie the antagonist brother of the opposing camp, then you come back as Emilio's long lost father to overcome adversity and you all end up hugging in the end. *Ducks fly together* Quack! Quack! Quack! No, make it a Men at Work sequel. The Departed is one of my favourite films. What was it like to work with Martin Scorsese and can you share any funny moments on set?

Thanks!
 It's one of my favorites too. The best part was working with one of my favorite directors, Martin Scorsese!


 Microprocessors. You also nailed the accent and the characterization. This is a rare feat for actors.  I'll never hear the word "micro-praw-sessuhs" the same again. Thank you for doing an AMA, Mr. President. You're known for being one of the finest actors who has never been recognized by the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences. However, I read on Wikipedia (so it must be true) that you declined an Oscar nomination for your role in _Apocalypse Now_. Is that true? If so, what led you to make that decision? Actually, I've never been nominated for an Oscar. I've declined other nominations, but never an Oscar.  Wikipedia *lied*!?  This article needs additional citations for verification. Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources.  source: uh... Martin Sheen said so? Only works if it's stone cold And that's the bottom line.  [deleted] Well that was quick, someone's already removed the reference. Now if we could just get every celebrity to check their own Wikipedia page, we could actually trust anything on there! Martin, I don't know if you remember, but you gave me rosary beads before a concert I was flying off to, from the set. I want you to know I still have them, I still carry them with me, and I think of you often.

My question is: do you miss me?  YES - of course I miss you! Just saw your extraordinary performance on PBS this past weekend. Thanks for thinking of me - I think of you often and fondly as well! 

 I thought this was a response to just a normal person.  Then i read the username

Edit: i dunno why this got so many upvotes. It's sort of a stupid comment This reads like a click-bait headline from Upworthy. Martin Sheen Does A Reddit AMA... And You Won't Believe Who Shows Up! You're giving me the hives just by making me read that shit. I stopped browsing Facebook because of those godawfully annoying headlines. How long do you think it'll take before that retarded trend blows over? &gt; How long do you think it'll take before that retarded trend blows over?

This ride has no end. Don't forget, you're here forever!  So Kristin is not normal?  Normies Good work, everyone.  We're done here for the day Some would have said it's a full lid.  What's next? [deleted] West Wing [Reddit Reunion!!] (http://imgur.com/hRizBHG) Well, this just put a huge smile on my face. And Kristin Chenoweth is here.  Life is great right now.   Well, unless you're a Seahawks fan.  Those no longer exist. No that's not true, there's still 11 of em.  Yeah, but they're only there so they don't get fined. Did you choose to go by Martin Sheen instead of Ramon Estevez when you started getting in the entertainment industry or was it suggested by people in the industry?   When I started in New York in 1959, there was a degree of prejudice against Hispanics. I took 'Martin' from the casting director at CBS, Robert Dale Martin and Sheen, I took from Archbishop Fulton J. Sheen who was the first popular televangelist in America. I didn't always understand his theology or politics - I just though he was a magnificent "actor"! (we later became friends and I was very fond of him) 

In fact, I have never legally changed my name, nor do I ever plan to. I love my name, Ramon Estevez, and even gave it to one of my sons who thankfully has never changed it. WHICH ONE WAS IT????? DON'T LEAVE US HANGING! I think it was Charlie  Carlos Estevez Your cameo in Hot Shots: Part Deux, how did that all come together? It was Charlie's idea and his gift to me.  That part was hilarious! They loved each other in Wall Street. Obviously. [didn't we all](http://imgur.com/HwCvq44.gifv) Thank you for the AMA Martin. What was the hardest or most emotional point for you in filming Bhopal? What do you want people to take away from the film? Ideally, I want people to come away vigilantly aware of potential industrial disasters and the negative consequences of ignorance, arrogance, and greed. When government and industry are not transparent regarding the environment and public health, we are all at risk. 

We *must* be attentive to watchdogs and whistleblowers whose sole purpose is to warn the public of impending disasters. 

Bhopal, Chernoby, Fukashima - what's next? 


 I've heard that your political leanings are quite different from those you portrayed as President Jed Bartlet. Is that true and did any of the arguments used in the West Wing force you to look at any specific issues differently? I should say that gratefully, Aaron Sorkin envisioned the character as a liberal-democrat as well as catholic which reflected my own personal views with the exception of Capital Punishment - which I oppose. I don't mean to come off the wrong way (ya know, like a crazy person), but I'm fairly certain that by the end of the Capital Punishment episode, President Bartlet was opposed to it, too. "He sent you a priest, a rabbi, and a Quaker, Mr. President. Not to mention his son, Jesus Christ. What do you want from him?" That line gets kinda funny if you swap a couple points of punctuation:

&gt;"He sent you a priest, a rabbi, and a Quaker, Mr. President. Not to mention his son. Jesus Christ, what do you want from him?" My take was that Bartlet was opposed to capital punishment but it would have caused too many political problems for him to stop the execution. If I remember correctly, it wasn't really the political problems that were concerning him, but that his job was to let it happen. Moreover, if he starts giving pardons systematically (he pretty much has to at this point), and his successor doesn't, then who get's executed or not is up to the personal preference of the president in place: "talk of cruel and unusual". The AMA I have been waiting for.

Hi Martin, as is probably evident by my username, I am a massive fan of The West Wing and your character specifically. I have rewatched the series numerous times and will again. It was impossible to narrow down to one question so I will take whatever answer(s) I can get.

- What are your thoughts on the show post-Sorkin? I believe 1-4 were the best but that 5-7 were still damn good television.

- What is your favorite memory with John Spencer?

- What is the funniest behind the scenes moment you can remember?

I guess I'll restrain myself and limit to three! Clearly, 1-4 were the best thanks in large part to Aaron Sorkin. And I agree that 5-7 were still damn good television thanks in large part to Eli Attie in my opinion. 

Somebody once asked me on set, how many AA meetings I would go to on average. Just at that moment, John Spencer, a fellow member, walked in .I pointed at him saying "See that guy over there? Every time he says 'hello,' it's an AA meeting." 

I'd often go into the make-up trailer just to give him a hard time which I thoroughly enjoyed doing: "Hey Johnny (I was the only one to call him Johnny) how are things?" And he'd usually get exasperated and say something like, 'Ahh well, you know, I upset so-and-so on set and now I gotta make amends today."

 I just finished my semi-annual rewatch of the West Wing last night, and I have to say, I'm kind of emotional reading this answer.  Definitely reading this in your voice and his voice. Man. Hello!

You were one of the stars of one of my favorite lesser-seen movies, **The Dead Zone**, where you played the worst president ever.  Do you have any fond memories of that shoot?  Any interesting anecdotes working with Christopher Walken and David Cronenberg? Interesting anecdotes? Yes, it was my son Ramon who played the photographer that took the photo that lead to my demise.  Hi Mr. Sheen, nice to meet you. Can you tell us what's your favorite movie? East of Eden with my favorite actor, James Dean.  Mr.President, what's next? Mallay, what's next? That's my line. 

 I mean, Josh said it to you once after he woke up from his surgery.  Damn, I applaud your commitment. At the age of 65 you went to University for the first time. What was that experience like and do you plan to finish your degree? The experience was extraordinary at the National University of Ireland. Unfortunately, I was able to only complete one semester but I happily accepted the honorary degree (which I still brag about).  Don't feel bad about it. I dropped out of University too. It'll probably work out for you just like it did for him. Dropout here; really looking forward to being a TV president now! Why not? Good luck! First time I've seen an AMA other than Snoop reply to a 5th level comment. I think Snoop is still replying to it. Snoop's AMA never ends.  We're all still in his AMA. Mr. Sheen, whenever I see you in interviews you always seem so kind and genuine and full of inspiration. It's a pleasure to witness you do this AMA! [deleted] [deleted] Hello, Mr. Sheen! I'd like to congratulate you on your amazing and prolific career that spans six decades and contains my favorite TV show, as well as two of the most incredible films ever made. Your acting in any role, big or small, is always a joy to watch. I haven't even come close to viewing your entire body of work, but I watched The Way recently and loved it.

My question to you is about writing. In an interview once, you said something about words that has stuck with me ever since. The line was:

&gt; I'm always looking for words like musical notes, that are sung, that have a rhythm and a clarity and an image all their own.

In light of that, who is the best writer, outside of TV or film, you've ever come across? Thanks for your comments. 

In my opinion, the best writer is Fyodor Dostoyevsky. Have you read The Brothers Karamazov? It might be the greatest thing ever written I agree *(nods in agreement)* I dont think there are many people who would say that Dostoevsky was their favorite writer that haven't also read the Brothers Karamazov   Mr. Sheen, you seem like the kinda guy who knows what kind of whiskey goes with which cigar. How wrong/right am I?  Not any more, fumblebuck. Not any more. Not since I quit drinking and smoking. There's a certain amount of gravitas in seeing Martin refer to someone as "fumblebuck". I'm picturing him doing this AMA in the oval office, like a natural continuation of the West Wing's [butterball hotline scene](https://www.youtube.com/watch?feature=player_detailpage&amp;x-yt-ts=1422579428&amp;v=zQsvcs9IB8A&amp;x-yt-cl=85114404#t=119). Ha. Ok, this clip convinced me to give West Wing a shot.  There will be an unbearable character in Season One.

They will be gone by Season Two. Just some fair warning. Please tell me it's Mandy. I'm on episode 2, she's had maybe 10 minutes of screen time and I despise her and anyone who looks like her already.  ding ding. yes. she goes away to [mandyville](http://www.urbandictionary.com/define.php?term=Mandyville).  I'm automatically reading everything in his voice, which just makes this so perfect. Thank you for doing the AMA. I love your work, especially the West Wing (I cannot tell you how happy I am to have another Jed on TV beyond the Beverly Hillbillies), and I am looking forward to seeing you at the Smithsonian's event about leadership in a few weeks. I'm not sure if saying I look forward to seeing your new film is quite appropriate under the circumstances, I'm sure it will be powerful and painful, but I do look forward to seeing your portrayal of Warren Anderson.

I would like to ask you how you came to be an activist, and whether you have found it difficult to balance a movie/TV career with fighting for the causes you believe in? (Both in terms of time, as well as in concerns that doing one might damage the other?) I've often said acting is what I do for a living, but activism is what I do to stay alive. Over the years, I have tried to combine the two in an effort to unite the will of the spirit with the work of the flesh. 

Activism can be very costly in every way. If this were not so, we'd be left to question its value. 

In my career, I'm sure that each has had an effect on the other, for good and ill. But I can not *not *do both and still be myself.

I'm fond of the story the Irish tell about a man who arrives at the gates of heaven, asking to be let in. St. Peter says "Of course, just show us your scars." The man says, "I have no scars." St. Peter says "What a pity. Was there nothing worth fighting for?"  Mr. Sheen,  

I just watched The Way, and I really liked it. I noticed sometimes you said things like "grathias," was that on purpose, or was it your subconscious Galithian accent taking over? No - it was my conscious memory of my father, Fransisco who was from Galithia, near Vigo. Ok, im also from galithia, lugo, not far from vigo. maybe we are cousines or something! Find his episode of 'Who do you think you are'. It goes into a bit of detail about his relatives involvement in the Spanish Civil War. Mr. Sheen, please just allow me to say that I am a massive fan of your work. The West Wing in particular challenged the way I think about certain issues and it helped me through some tough times when I really needed a good laugh. 

I have a couple questions. Please feel free to answer any/all/none of them. 

1. If I see you in public and you aren't obviously busy with something, is it alright to approach you? If so, is there anything in particular that you like or dislike fans doing? 

2. What is your favorite West Wing moment? Either with or without President Bartlett? 

3. What is your favorite movie?
Thank you sir!  Of course you can approach me. The only thing I dislike is when fans don't because they're too shy.

My favorite moment was the conversation on the Butterball Hotline from a Thanksgiving episode. 

And my favorite movie is East of Eden. 
  Zip Code, Fargo, North Dakota. I got it from the King of...auto sales in Fargo. Phil Baharnd. The man can sell a car like..... well, like anything. That was excellent!  We should do that once a week. Butterball has a hotline?

In case anyone isn't familiar with the Butterball Hotline episode: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zQsvcs9IB8A Holy crap! That may be the best thing I've ever seen!   All of ^(the first 4 seasons) of west wing were amazing. I enjoy season 6 and 7 still. It is less West Wing and more campaign, but Vinick and Santos are great.

Season 5 has some good moments too. I enjoyed the Gaza plotline and The Supremes was great. Damnit! Me and my girlfriend visited New York in 2002, I think, and we spent a day on the grass in Central Park, as you should. About ten yards away from us there was a man doing yoga and we smiled a bit over the very clear "view" we got from it. When the man turned around we looked at each other and simultaneously said "Isn't that...!?!!"

We were a couple of seasons into The West Wing and totally hooked by then and here, suddenly, is "our" President! We still wouldn't quite believe it but when another couple came up and shook your hand, we agreed that it was indeed you.

Alas, being polite and somewhat shy Swedes, we never did approach and a few minutes later you left, leaving us a bit stunned. Had I known that you didn't mind I would have taken the chance to get to shake your hand but this is still a memory that makes that New York trip special to me. Hi Mr. Sheen, Thanks for taking questions from Reddit today.

I am a huge fan of The West Wing. How was it like working with John Spencer? 

P.S. Bartlett For America Thanks for asking. I adored John Spencer and I still miss him. May he rest in peace.  What was the hardest part for you working on the film Bhopal:Prayer for Rain? Well, it's a lot easier to **make** a film than it is to get it distributed and have it seen. The only difficult part of my involvement with Bhopal was making sure people would know about it and the ongoing humanitarian issue.  Interestingly, I remember a casual reference to Bhopal in the west wing; during Leo's recovery in season six.  Did you have anything to do with that? It wasn't so much a "casual" reference as it was a *masked* reference.  

In WW they referred to it was the "Haryana" (instead of Bhopal) Disaster, and the responsible company was "Cultico" instead of Union Carbide.

Anyone who knew their history knew what they were referencing, though. I just learned that you are 74 years old.  I have seen many 74 year olds in my lifetime and you look a good decade younger then most.  What is the secret?  How do I prevent myself from looking like Tommy Lee Jones and more like you when I am in my 70's? I love Tommy Lee Jones - he's one of my favorite actors. I don't care how he looks. I'd love to work with him some day. 

But to answer your question, I try to do yoga every day.  Fun fact: Tommy Lee Jones was born 30 years old. Hi Mr. Sheen,

Thanks for doing this AMA, Im a huge fan!  So much of your work has been a huge inspiration to me  thank you for sharing your gift with the world!

I have a few questions, what did you think about your Apocalypse Now co-star Marlon Brando refusing to accept his best actor Oscar for his performance in The Godfather?  Did you ever talk to him about it while working with him?

Given your political activism work  what do you think about the protests happening now in Hong Kong?

Finally  are you a fan of the HBO series Game of Thrones?  If so whos your favorite character?

Thanks for your time sir.  
 I never talked to Marlon about The Godfather and the protests in Hong Kong are certainly a reflection of things to come. 

I've seen the previews, but I've never actually watched Game of Thrones. 

 Did growing up in Dayton, Ohio change your perspective on life or people at all?

Everyone here in Dayton knows you're one of the prodigal sons alongside the Wright Brothers and Paul Lawrence Dunbar.  I'm not a prodigal at all, I'm a proud son. Growing up in Dayton, for good and ill, was a wonderful experience and I wouldn't change it at all. 

Nearly 56 years on, the takeaway remains the belief that living an honest life is paramount. "This above all..." Thanks for your response.

My wife fondly remembers you coming in to Books and Co. at Town and Country Shopping Center when she worked there.  I don't think you realize what the story of the prodigal son is... basically he's a piece of shit. I understand you intended to call Martin a prodigy, but it ended up not being that...

http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Parable_of_the_Prodigal_Son Yeah, its been a long day at work. 

Hopefully he'll understand my blunder wasnt an insult. 

 Hello Mr. Estevez,

At the height of the controversy surrounding your son Charlie I told myself that if I ever had the chance I would express to you my tremendous pride and gratitude to you for your sobriety and the grace you display therein.
As the son and brother of addicts I hold you as a role model and an inspiration, what little I know of you speaks of a man who never stopped struggling against his demons and who cares deeply for the mental and physical well-being of his family. In those things you embody for me the hardest and most deeply treasured lessons my family members' addictions have taught me.

It seems I have to ask a question here so in keeping with a theme: What led you to get sober?

Thank you for being publicly sober and thank you for being sober for your sons. [deleted] &gt; Edit: add ? so mods wont delete my comment.

Am I missing something or is there still no actual question in your comment.
 I live in Galway! How did you find Galway when you studied here? You just follow the M4 from Dublin. You can't miss it.  Actually you *can* miss it, if you follow the M4 from Dublin you'll end up in Sligo unless you turn left at Kinnegad and follow the M6.


**Source:** missed the left turn at Kinnegad Ha, that's so fucking true. Been down that road in error quite a few times now! 

That moment of horror when you realise...  &gt; That moment of horror when you realise...

That moment of horror when you realise... you're in Kinnegad &gt; That moment of horror when you realise... you're in Kinnegad

This message was brought to you by the Kinnegad Chamber of Commerce The worst one is when you're heading south on the M50 and miss the exit for Sligo/Galway. Then you end up at the Red Cow.... now that's a moment of horror... Rekt. In the absence of Martin, I will validate your question for the uninitiated: Galway is beautiful and incredibly welcoming.  Thank you for doing the AMA. Gettysburg was one of my favorite historical movies of all time. I was wondering what you did to prepare for your role as Robert E. Lee?  I would love to hear about the filming of Badlands. Could you share any stories from the set? Mr Sheen you meet my dad at Frische's restaurant in Dayton where your brother was a regular customer. You had just filmed Apocalypse Now and ended up doing a late night swim with my dad and a couple of waitresses from Frische's. My dad talks of it often, do you remember?

Thanks No. He doesn't. Are you serious? Hello. You have voiced the Illusive Man in Mass Effect. What is the experience like for you giving a voice to a videogame character? Would you do it again? Regading Charlie... during his well publicized meltdown a few years ago, did you ever talk to him? Do you have any insight into why he acted the way he did? [This is pretty interesting](http://youtu.be/Va4wN1c-7b8)

Edit: talks about Charlie at about the 10 minute mark if you want to skip to it. Took me longer than it should have to realise you didn't mean Charlie Young from the West Wing. I was wondering what 'outburst' he had. 

I thought he'd moved on from Zoe.  I was confused at first when I read this thinking, "Charlie Young had a meltdown? I wonder if something happened again with Zoey?!" This was the only question I had hoped he would answer.  Nah, we just got an awesome, thoughtful and honest AMA from an iconic actor and activist.  Let him have some familial privacy.   

If this question is the only thing you care what he has an opinion of, experience with, or wisdom to impart, you'd be best to quietly move on.  I'm not going to do any of what you just said and I wholeheartedly disagree. Maybe you should quietly move along.  Rebel without a cause  No, East of Eden was his favorite James Dean movie, weren't you paying attention? Heading towards metta! You can't expect someone to talk about someone else's personal life. If the question had been "How did it make you feel?", it likely would have gotten an answer. But this was a direct question about Charlie, not Martin. I don't blame him for keeping quiet. Ok  Cocaine is a hell of a drug. The only question I wanted answering. I don't think it would've been beyond the pale to ask this of anyone. 

Such a shame this didn't come up at any point Hi Mr. Sheen,

Thanks for doing this AMA.

Any funny parenting stories regarding Carlos?

Which film did you have the most fun in?

 Shibboleth? Hello Sir.
Thank you for doing an AMA. Sorkinist here. I am from India. I am writing this while I am watching West Wing season 4. And I have to say you were quite phenomenal playing Jed Bartlet in the show. I saw the trailer of Bhopal: A Prayer for Rain and I am looking forward to watch this. Can you tell me what research went through while making the film and what was your role in that process? Hi Mr. Sheen, huge fan! I'm a native Bostonian and loved you in The Departed. With an all-star cast like that do you have any fun stories from filming the movie? Any interesting stories about filming Apocalypse Now?  Hi Mr. Sheen.

I was just wondering what has been the biggest influence on you in your career?  Catch-22 is a personal favourite of mine, both the book and the film. Can you tell us any interesting behind-the-scenes stories about filming Catch-22?  the film was a butchering imo

the novel is a masterpiece The movie was perfect and Heller was satisfied. Hi there - just read a biography of Joe Papp and was really interested to read about your time at The Public Theater in New York.  Any interest in returning to do Shakespeare in the Park? ugh you're my favorite Who's the person that's made you laugh the hardest while working together? Wilmer Valderrama, on that 70's Show.  Amedica Eric.. Eric.. Amedica "I want to sex your monkey" Fez: "Hyde and Jackie sitting in a tree.        They're in love like two monkeys"

Hyde: "That's not how it goes"

Fez: "is it making you mad?"

Hyde: "Yes"

Fez: "then that's how it goes!"

Haha classic Fez I can see why. I feel he could say anything in his Fez accent and it would make me giggle uncontrollably. A friend of mine told me you were credited on Robot Chicken for being Seth Green's hair stylist. What's the story behind that? Um, Sarah Michelle Gellar and myself are credited in ROBOT CHICKEN many, many times for doing things that do not exist. Seth is our best friend, and we made him do it.  Who is more misunderstood- Meg Griffin or Jackie Burkhart? Oh, Meg Griffin. Hands down.  Jackie was fine. Jackie got around. Meg? Not so much.  Meg literally tried to rape a dog though... I don't think she's misunderstood. Well it's a chicken or the egg thing. Did she do that because she'd been legitimately and seriously abused her whole life? Or was she abused because she's the type of person who'd try to do that?

I tend to believe the former. I love how we're having a serious analytical discussion about the social context of a cartoon character raping a dog. Has anyone ever recognized you as Jill the party guest from Honey, We Shrunk Ourselves?
 Hahah that's funny.

No!

Haha.  Well my life is complete. Thanks! you couldn't pay me all the gold in the world to shake a muslim's hand Here's a shot for anyone interested...
http://imgur.com/MvXWlK6

And the IMDb link:
http://www.imdb.com/title/tt0119310/ Do you plan on raising your children to speak Russian as well as English?  Yes! Absolutely. I speak Russian to the baby all the time. My parents speak Russian to the baby all the time. And Ashton's taking Russian lessons.  What was the best thing about working on "That 70s Show?" Did you ever imagine it would be as successful as it was?
 You know, at 14 years old, you don't really contemplate success and that aspect of work, you kinda do things because it's fun to do. We had an amazing crew and cast, and I had the best 8 years of my life on the show. It's not something you can force, it's either something that happens or doesn't. *Yeah!* Fun fact - from [IMDB](http://www.imdb.com/name/nm0005109/bio?ref_=nm_dyk_trv_sm#trivia). 

&gt;Auditioned for the situation comedy That '70s Show (1998) at age 14. Though actors had to be at least 18 to get the role, she truthfully claimed she would be 18 on her birthday, not specifying which birthday, and won the role.

Oh Mila. You're so cheeky. We'll be seeing this as a TIL post on the front page tomorrow We've seen it before, we'll see it again.  The Wheel of Time turns, and Ages come and pass, leaving memories that become legend. Legend fades to myth, and even myth is long forgotten when the Age that gave it birth comes again... Will you let your kids watch That 70's show and say, this is how your father and I met?  Its like a super meta How I Met Your Mother

 How I Meta Your Mother? Anyone else read this is a stereotypical Italian accent? She should probably avoid letting her kids ever see That 70s Show or Family Guy. As soon as they get old enough it will just be a non-stop string of "Dammit Jackie!" and "Shut Up Meg". Hi, Mila. What are the cons/pros of having one brown eye and one green eye?  You know what? After my surgery, I have a glass lens that was put in my eye, I now have the same color eyes! Just curious, why did you get a lens to make your eye color match? Was it a career based choice, or more of a personal reason? Appearently she was (or was going) blind in one eye, and the lens corrected it. Her Heterochromia may have just been a side effect of iritis.

 http://www.celebrityhealthfitness.com/3134/mila-kunis-reveals-long-struggle-with-chronic-eye-illness

Edit: Formatting... Do you ever think in russian? What about dreams? I dream in english. That actually happened, later in life, but now I dream in english. When I learned to speak english fluently, my dreams changed to english.

Strange, *right?* I asked my Russian friend this once. He told me he dreams in English because my mom only speaks English and his dreams are exclusively of fucking my mom. Your answer was far more interesting.  If you got offered a role as a super hero, would you do it and what character would you like to play?  Batman! This I can accept. Mila Kunis is batman. "Stupid sexy batman..."

-Every villan ever Hi Mila! If you could go back in time and have a conversation with your 14 year old self, what would you say to her? I would tell her to *relax* and not rush it.  (   ) I knew that this would be the fucking response as soon as I hit load more. Hi Mila! Is it true that Keanu Reeves is immortal?  As far as I'm concerned, yes.  Maybe that's why he's so sad He's not sad he's just awaiting the time of the gathering.   I mean, he's lost so many loved ones... And a dog. What is your favorite kind of salsa? The one that Ashton's mother makes.  She's right behind you, isn't she? Don't post anything if she is...
 She is. BLINK TWICE FOR ASSISTANCE It is VERY delicious.  &gt; It^^^^^h is^^^^^e VERY^^^^^l delicious.^^^^^p

Don't worry, I think we got the message. What is your favorite music genre? Oh, I'm not a music snob. I honestly will listen to anything.  Rancid Amputation - Cannibal Corpse I heard she prefers [this particularly hard-hitting version of Hammer Smashed Face](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=C-eYIeUPD0s&amp;list=PLB1D0A6F090270655&amp;index=4) How was it like working with Sean bean and are you a fan of game of thrones? Oh YEAH!

Sean Bean was great! Huge fan of Game of Thrones! So bummed Ned Stark got murdered! So happy to work with Ned Stark! He's the chillest person ever. He's like... just a normal British guy whom you can just shoot the shit with.  One does not simply 'shoot the shit' with Sean Bean He usually ends up being shot and dies.  'Shot to shit' with Sean Bean If you could make your own college course and teach it, what would the title of your course be?  That's a good question! WOW!

I would teach a course... nobody should take any class from me, let's prefix it with that, but if you're forced to take any class from me... I could teach a class on "How to be an awesome, badass chick who knows how to take apart &amp; put together a gun blindfolded, make a four-course meal, and parallel park the shit out of a car."

I mean, don't you think?

That would be my course.  I will enroll in any class that contains 'shit' in the name...  *"How to let a 93 year old Chinese man shit in your mouth 102"*

Edit: First time gilded, you guys are awesome. I'd totally shit in your mouth.  Well...  It's this or chemistry.  With the cost of textbooks and the labs, Chemistry left more of a shit taste in my mouth.  I don't think I could handle the work load. I mean, 16 weeks of a 93 year old Chinese man shitting in my mouth? Good thing it's not a general. It's course work and theoreticals until the lab. Then it's shit central.  And then there's the oral exam. Do I have to take 101? What am I missing? Is it a carry over, or can I kind of pick it up from there? 101 is purely an introductory course about shit, where it comes from, the different kinds, and expectations for the next semester.  What is your favorite cereal? CHEX. Chex Rice cereal. Yes, the most blandest cereal possible. I love cereal that tastes like cardboard. Yes, I know it's weird. My morning cereal is Chex, Almond Milk, and then I put in a bunch of berries - without fail! The Chex people were all like "woohoo!" then they got a little further and were like "oh..."
 Doesn't matter, had Chex. Hi Mila, thanks for doing this AMA;

So, you've worked with some notable directors: Darren Aronofksy, Sam Raimi, Paul Haggis, and  now the Wachowskis. Is there any other directors you admire and/or would like to work with?

Also, what was like kissing Natalie Portman? Oh my goodness, oh *you!*

Chris Nolan, I would love to work with... let me think... I would love to work with Alejandro Gonzlez Irritu... I think those I would love to work with, right off the top of my head. 

And how was it making out with Natalie? I mean... when you have a kissing scene in a film it's not something you think about as a kissing thing. You have all these crew around. But she's a lovely kisser, very polite. 

But here's a little-known fact: there's one person in the world that both Ashton and I have kissed, and that's Natalie Portman.

Maybe Zoe Saldana too? Though I can't quite recall when I played Zoe's girlfriend in a movie...but that could also be it.  [My reaction when Mila Kunis just *oh you*'d me](http://imgur.com/NAzlZUW)

Thanks for the reply! Funny, I had that same reaction when she talked about kissing Natalie Portman You did kiss Zoe Saldana in After Sex, why do I know this but not you! Well, she made the movie 7 years ago and probably hasn't watched it since then. I think I've heard her saying in interviews that she doesn't watch her own films. I don't think many actors watch their own films. People find it a little embarassing watching themselves on video. have you ever watched yourself on video? it's the same thing with actors. I don't recall, but I've heard my voice on tape, and that was bad enough. Hi Mila. Thanks for having this AMA. I have several questions that I like you to answer:

1. How often do people come up to you and say Shut up Meg and how do you usually respond to it?

2. Are there any directors you want to work with in future films?

3. What was it like preparing for your role in Black Swan?
 1.) A LOT. People often - I guess - comment more online than in person from what I understand? And how I normally respond to it is - I laugh!

2.) Already answered :)

3.) BLACK SWAN used to be the most physically demanding part I'd ever done, until JUPITER ASCENDING. We trained for 3 months before production, and I learned how to be in en pointe, and how to be a ballerina. And then for JUPITER, you do maximum amounts of wirework training every day. So for BLACK SWAN, I trained by dancing every day for 3 months, and learning how to get en pointe in 3 months. Ultimately, it was all about learning how to pretend to be a ballerina. And I mimicked my ballet instructor more than anything. MOVIE TITLE That's me, sorry. Considering how well you capture her voice, and everyone elses you help out, I think we can let it slide.  Hi Mila! 
Thank you for doing this AMA. 
How has becoming a mother changed you the most?   
 It is the most life-changing experience you can have, in my opinion.

EVERYTHING changed.

I am proud to be a stay-at-home mom. I have no desire to be in front of the camera. I find her to be the most challenging job I've had. The amount of love that you have, the type of love that you have, changes, the way you look at the world changes... everything has changed, because of her. I want an eco-friendly car, I want to compost everything, because I want the world to be better for *her.* And you have the opportunity to make a really great child *for the world.* Or a really great human being.  TIL having a kid is like when the firenation attacks. If only everyone thought like this, with or without children.  Hey Mila! (:

What is your favorite gas-station snack? It's a place called Casey's, and they're all over Iowa, and they do a delicious breakfast pizza. 

Yeah, you heard me! Casey's: famous for pizza.  Whats your favorite book? Oh, my favorite book? 

AJ Jacobs - anything by him I really find fun, and easy to ready. I also really like - what's his name - Mitch Albom, anything by him I really like. He wrote a book called FOR ONE MORE DAY, I read it on a plane, and it really stuck with me, and I thought it was a really beautiful book - it starts out with him trying to commit suicide, and he ends up reliving a perfect day with his mom, and I've always loved that book. It was the first book that had a really significant impact on me. I got off the phone, called my mom and said "I love you."

It's a really great book.  Hi Mila, why no Ted 2? You were the best part of that movie. Aw thank you so much. A little thing called "a pregnancy" got in the way of me and production. But I wish them all the best, and I'm sure the movie will be hysterical.  But isn't the movie about Ted trying to have a kid?!?! They couldn't have worked that in SOMEHOW?? I feel a missed opportunity there..  Mila, what's the most attractive personality trait a man can have? I guess a sense of humor. Sense of humor is the most attractive quality.  Hi Mila! 
What tv shows are you into at the moment? :) At the moment... I watch... well... it would be... WALKING DEAD, HOMELAND, Downton Abbey, Game of Thrones, and currently, I guess the only thing I have to watch is The Bachelor? But that's so depressing. It's the first season I'm ever watching it. But it's so addictive. I mean, it's *unbelievably* addicting. In all 15 seasons or so they've done this, I've never sat down to watch it. But now - *oh my god, these women are crazy!* &gt; The Bachelor

Welcome to motherhood Mila. Hi Mila! 

What is your most random hobby? 

If you could get a PhD in anything what would it be?  My most random hobby is I like gardening. And if I could get a PhD in anything, I would like to be a doctor of Neuroscience... I mean, this is all in a hypothetical world, but that's what I would like to do. Brain-surgery. Yeah! Excuse me, Ms. Kunis, on the "The Color of Time" CD-ROM, is there a way to get out of the dungeon without a wizard's key? What?!?! Come again? 

I'm going to say no, you cannot get out without a wizard's key.  Welp, back to square one then I guess. Do you have James Franco's home number on you? Do you want to be his Samwise? Hi. A question for Miss Kunis. In episode 2F09 when Itchy plays Scratchy's skeleton like a xylophone, he strikes the same rib twice in succession, yet he produces two clearly different tones. I mean, what are we to believe, that this is some sort of a magic xylophone or something? Boy, I really hope somebody got fired for that blunder. I love how this one joke strikes so deeply and accurately at the heart of geekery that it has remained relevant for 20 years Let me ask you a question. Why would a man whose shirt says "Genius at Work" spend all of his time watching a children's cartoon show? Kittens or puppies? Puppies. But I don't want to be prejudiced against kitties either.  Mila, my favorite movie with you is extract... Also you're hilarious, my question... What's your favorite pizza topping?  My favorite pizza topping - this is a really boring answer for you - all veggie.

YES!

I'm sorry, I genuinely love an all-veggie pizza. I don't love pepperoni, not a fan, and I don't like all-cheese. So for me, veggie or a short-rib pizza that a place near has that I love.

But yea, sorry guys, that's my favorite.

OH Wait, that's not true! I really like BBQ Chicken, but i know that's sacrilege. And I really like super-thin, burnt-burnt-burnt crust. Like extra crispy.  Thanks Meg.

Edit:[Thank you for the gold]( http://stream1.gifsoup.com/view3/3810328/peter-griffin-dives-into-gold-o.gif) I think because she does Meg, it's one of those AMAs where her voice shines through in every answer. If you could have a lifetime supply of any food, what would it be? OOOH.

Eggs.

Yeah, I use eggs in everything!

Or maybe... like, no... *Mmmmm*... gosh this is a really good question.... Ashton goes fishing once a year in Alaska, and brings back like 80 pounds of fish, and that is how we eat our fish year-round - freshly caught from Alaska. So a lifetime supply of fresh sustainably sourced wild-caught salmon would be delicious!  We don't want to overfish our waters! Are you actually going to go back and pick up that barrel at Jim Beam? 
EDIT: Thanks for the gold kind stranger How's Seth McFarland in real life? Very very smart.  And boy does he not let us forget it  Hi Mila! 

I found out recently that you have played/play World of Warcraft. Are you excited for the WOW movie and do you still enjoy playing WOW? I have not played WOW in probably 5 years! Yes, I used to play. I played a *LOT.* I was in a guild, I led raids, I was a pretty badass mage. I had multiple characters. I was a frostmage, I think, by the time I stopped playing? But no, I stopped playing when everyone started having children. I was level 70, I quit at level 70, before the expansion pack.  &gt; I was level 70, I quit at level 70, before the expansion pack. 

Yeah, the parenthood expansion pack really ruins the game, IMO.
 The grind is a killer. Really? The grind is the only part of parenting I enjoy.... Alliance or Horde? Milaaaa NJenkins! &gt; I was in a guild, *I led raids*

I find this the most amusing part. I wonder if people recognized her voice on Ventrilo / Teamspeak.
 What's you're favorite sandwich? My favorite sandwich... maybe like a fried egg sandwich.  Ok You seem disappointed.  More like responding to a bothersome text message from his mom I don't think ive ever laughed so hard at a plain "ok" answer Most expensive "Ok" ever whoa dude calm down  Mila Kunis! Can you just reply with "yes" so that I can brag to all my friends that Mila Kunis responded to me on reddit?

Also if you could turn into food, what food would you be? Hahahahaa! What?!

*snortgiggle*

I don't want to be eaten. But I guess if I *have* to be? I'd be a bowl of ice cream. I might as well go down in glory in deliciousness. Nobody hates on ice cream! Thank you for answering! Your *snortgiggle* has made my day! Ice cream is definitely a good way to go! Exclamation marks!!! Victoria doesn't miss anything. I can't comment on an AMA she works without praising her. 

Hahaha. Snortgiggle. What do you like to do to relax? Watch really bad television. Like...*The Bachelor.* If you could travel to any place in the world, where would you go? Right now, I kinda really want to go to Cuba. Before it gets Westernized. I would want to go to Cuba very quickly.  Damn, Jackie! At least let our relationship with Cuba warm up a bit first! You have some pull out there in Hollywood! Anyway you can make a Quantum Leap movie happen? If not it's cool! Just thought I would ask. :) Anyways, you are awesome! Thanks for doing this and have an awesome day! Whoever that is, I am right there with you. I hope they make a Quantum Leap movie! No, I have no pull in Hollywood, but I'm right there with you kiddo.  Hey Mila,  
Is Channing Tatum as dreamy in real life as he is on screen?  
As a straight guy, I'm asking for a friend... JUST AS DREAMY.

Just as dreamy, ladies. Just as dreamy.  This seems like such a Jackie thing to say. Thank you for doing this AMA!  Could you give me 2 lies and a truth about filming Jupiter Ascending?  Thanks again! Okay.

Um, I almost got ran over by a camera on a crane while strapped to a wire.

I...was thrown 80 feet off of a ledge on a crane.

And I flew on a harness through the city of Chicago.

Two lies and a truth! What if "Two lies and a truth!" is a lie? What made you choose Jupiter Ascending for your next movie? I've always been a fan of sci-fi. And so when the opportunity to work with the Wachowskis on a sci-fi film that is a fully original concept, that was really intriguing to both Channing and myself. And it's one of the first times you get to see the female be a heroine, versus a damsel in distress. She kicks ass, which is always a rarity in the industry. In sci-fi films, it's uncommon for the woman to be the badass. But the Lara Croft movies, Aliens... the fact you can count it is a problem versus all the action films where the heroes are always men.  Hey Mila! 

I love how you're such a versatile actress. You do both comedy and drama so well! 

My question is, which types of roles do you enjoy playing the most? 
 You know what, I honestly - I don't think there's any difference, as far as genre goes. You gravitate towards roles that you relate to. They're both equally as challenging, and I like playing roles I can relate to. And I like playing roles that I find challenging, whether comedy or drama.  Miss Kunis it's my birthday today. What do you like doing on your birthday? I need ideas haha  Oh, well HAPPY BIRTHDAY BUDDY!

What do I like to do on my birthday? I like to have a very small family dinner with friends. Family &amp; friends, that's it. And *amazing* food. I'm ALL about the food! What does ashton Kutcher smell like?  What does Ashton Kutcher smell like?

He smells like a man.

A real man! But he smells like a man. He does not wear cologne. But he makes sure he showers. Never offending. He has a very good natural smell about him, yeah.  Nice try Ashton! What's it like having one of the most recognized and most scorned voice in television?

What's your favorite video game genre?

Would you rather fight 100 duck-sized Marky Marks or 1 Marky Mark-sized duck? Oh, haha, it's great! Often I forget that I get recognized, so when I call places, I never say my real name, but they always say "Oh my god, you sound like Meg!" and I'll say "Oh my gosh, that's so crazy..."

MMORPG? But when you get a group of people together - to me, MARIO PARTY is the perfect game. It's fun, it's simple, and everybody could play it. You didn't have to be a great video game aficionado to play MARIO PARTY.

Hahahah! 100 Marky-Mark ducks. The first one.  Hi Mila! You're such an amazing actress! I'm always curious about actors and actresses life goals. If acting didn't work out for you, what other careers would you have considered and why? Before I had Wyatt, I would've been a teacher. I would have taught like first grade.  I would fail that class so hard Hey 

What was it like working with Robin Williams? I've heard he was one of the nicest guys in the industry. Yes, Robin was a great guy, a great human being.  I know you got that thing with Ashton or whatever but...Will you go out with me? I have a coupon for the Olive Garden.  Mmm. I'm more of an Outback Steakhouse gal.  Try the quesadillas with buffalo  Ah yes, quesadillas and Buffalo sauce. Classic outback bush tucker, just like the Aboriginals made. A whole case? Slow down, maybe try one dilla and then see how you feel. I hate you dad.  How come he can always show up to these threads yet never to my baseball games? I don't want to intimidate you, but I do have a $50 gift certificate to Outback Steakhouse. No big deal.  What's surprised you most about acting? You know what? It's hard to say what surprised me the most about acting, because you can never predict anything in this industry, so all of it is a giant shocker. But maybe how small the world really is, and how small the industry really is. It's a very small, small industry.  Just wanted to let you know that my SO and I have been joking with each other for a couple of years about who our hollywood crushes are, you are mine, and Channing Tatum is hers. Thought it was pretty funny you guys are starring in a movie together, okay so question time, besides you two being in the movie what is the best reason we should drag our asses to the theater to see Jupiter Ascending? Oh! Well, because Channing has his shirt off for part of the film. And because I wear really tight clothes. So for you and your SO, there you have it! 

Plus it's kickass, and brilliant, and smart. But for you and your SO... you can go and see Channing half-naked. Yay! &gt; you can go and see Channing half-naked

That's all I need to hear. Dragging the wife to the theater tomorrow. How are Wachowskis as directors? How do they work with actors? The Wachowskis as directors, as a team, are very much one brain and one entity. Like they have the same thought process, they talk the same, they don't do anything one without the other. So if there are multiple units, they disconnect  - where one goes, the other follows. They are literally one brain.

They definitely push you, physically. They are very nice, of course, but they make you do things you don't think you are capable of doing. They challenge you. They also prefer you do your own stunts - very rewarding at the end of the day, but very challenging. I did all my own stunts, with the exception of one.  Great, now I *have* to go watch JUPITER so that I can find out which stunt you didn't do yourself. I'm Reading all of these in your, very unique, voice and it's blowing my f*^&amp;ing mind.  Nice response. Sounds like my friend's boss who's kind of robotic at times.  [deleted] Just give it up you weirdo What's the last song you listened to on your phone? The last song I listened to on my phone...was...I guess it was in the car, and it was that - oh geez, who does that "Take me to Church" song? Hozier. It was on the radio! You mean Shake it off by T swizzle? That song is just so damn *hot* these days. **everyone** loves that song.. I don't. Me either really. Theres literally dozens of us! Baker's dozens! 


they come in thirteens. So do I....

... and now it's stuck in my head.

*Thanks Mila... gosh.* *Take me to church!* I know the guy who made that music video. Very talented guy. That video is brilliant.  You tell your buddy he did a fine job. Adequate He went to Trinity right? Crazy how he's become such a star. Nope, not the guy who made the video. He went to CIT and is also from my hometown.  I actually meant Hoozier, not the guy who made the video haha.

The video is very cool though. Doubt you will see this, but Postmodern Jukebox did a great [cover](http://youtu.be/9C0xGB73Uuc) of it. That's my favourite song! If you haven't seen the video, please do; it speaks to me on an emotional level. I love your work, Mila! Great song, did you choose it or was it Pandora? I just heard that song yesterday! Can't stop listening to it! BBC Radio 1 doesn't give me a choice  "I love hozier so much" - Fearne cotton, every single fucking day of 2013, 14 and probably 15. Seeing him at Bonnaroo! Can't wait.  What a truly strange thing to have deja vu about. Am I taking crazy pills? Has this happened before? Why in the world would I have deja vu about Mila Kunis listening to Hozier?  What's your favorite color? I like blue. 

 Nice Blue rules Yes! Sharing a favorite color with Mila Kunis! Whats the stupidest thing you have ever neeeded to wear? Oh, I've worn a hand-crocheted poncho, don't get me wrong, but no one made me wear it, I chose to. 

CORSETS. Corsets are the stupidest thing I've needed to wear.  You wore a corset for Meg, didn't you. I bet you did. I would. I cant believe u answered oh man ur meg! dunno about stupidest, but the coconut bra on that 70s show was definitely one of the hottest. Just how horrible does Kristen Bell smell? Awww Kristen Bell doesn't smell. She's delicious!  Kristen Bell smells...

gooooooood. Mila Kunis is a *dolphin noise* SpongeBob! Don't be usin' them sailor words! Do you kiss your mother with that mouth? Only when I'm wearing coral blue lipstick anyone who uses a spongebob reference gets my upvote *dolphin noises* Clutch reference bro Kristen Bell smells...  
her food before eating it. You sound like a sloth (who works for kirsten bell) Did someone mention sloths?
 Here's a random fact!

Sloths are only about 25% muscle. They can't shiver if they get too cold :o http://whatkristensmells.tumblr.com go on... Now kith... I don't want to spread cannibalism rumors, but... has anyone seen Kristen lately? Kreygasm That's what she said &amp;#3232;_&amp;#3232; He meant *Wigg, people
FTFY.  4:58:23 PM friend: Kristin Bell just walked into the coffee shop Im at

4:58:33 PM me: how does she smell?

4:58:42 PM me: http://www.reddit.com/r/IAmA/comments/2ux8x8/i_am_mila_kunis_amaa/coci8gt

4:58:58 PM friend: heh

4:59:15 PM me: inquiring minds want to know

4:59:25 PM me: pretty funny to crowdsource that question and get an answer in an hour

4:59:37 PM friend: That would be funny

4:59:40 PM friend: but Im not going to

4:59:43 PM me: just walk up behind her, take a big whiff and say "its for the internet" http://i.imgur.com/k6oIaYh.jpg Wait, is it common knowledge that Kristen Bell smells? Why is there a rumor she smells?  how much smell would a kristen bell smell? I feel like Dax would ask this question. What was it like working on Oz, the great and powerful? It was really fun. We shot it in Detroit for 6 months, and it was an amazing experience with a great group of people. And I loved the city of Detroit, it was so great and so grand. I'm happy I did it! WOO Detroit love!! I love when people appreciate my hometown it gets such a bad rap when it Doesnt deserve it  It doesn't? By doesn't they mean it does, but other people aren't used to how horrible it is and don't have private security guards Interesting... when something gets shot in Detroit, it isn't usually a movie. Actually lots of movies have been shot there in the past 5-10 years. They offered incentives to try to get movie productions there to improve the economy. http://www.imdb.com/search/title?endings=on&amp;&amp;locations=Detroit,%2520Michigan,%2520USA&amp;&amp;heading=18%3Bwith+locations+including%3BDetroit,%2520Michigan,%2520USA Yes, during the 8 years with a democrat governor.

First thing the Tea/GOP did when they took power was ax the tax credits.

"Too many left coast Obama lovers taking hard earned auto worker tax money!"

...was how they sold it. [deleted] I know... &gt;it was so great and grand

haha what? &gt; Two truths and a lie!

We found the lie. Was Detroit where the dark cemetery scenes were shot?  I don't think you and me went to the same "Detroit" Detroit is like the opposite to Oz unless you mean the HBO show In that case it's exactly like Oz What are your favorite things about yourself? Um, my favorite things about myself... maybe my compassion towards others... and my lack of self-awareness? I don't know how to say that, but I guess my sense of humor about myself.  shut up meg. I don't know why you guys were down-voting him I thought it was pretty amusing. deadhorse.jpg IT WAS ONLY AN HOUR AGO, HOW THE FUCK COULD I MISS THIS?! Yeah I shouldn't have left the house an hour ago, so that I wouldn't have missed this. How many bananas wide is your username? Saddest thing for me is this was 5 threads down from where I stopped and it had started "26 minutes ago". Damn you tacos! **DAMN YOU!!** I know how you feel... We shall mourn together friend.. I missed it because I'm from europe and when americans do AMAs I'm asleep :-D  Hi Mila! Thanks for doing this AMA!

One question: N'Sync or Backstreet Boys? 'N Sync! Only because you had that friends with benefits thing with Justin Timberlake... Word And here I thought we could be friends. booo Dude, she worked with Justin Timberlake,  what do you expect ? What's the best and the worst meal you ever cooked for yourself or others? Best meal? I cook almost every night. I make dinner a lot. And so best meal is usually - I don't follow recipes, so it's hard for me to say, but I have made some delicious beef stroganoff. I make a very fun cauliflower crust pizza... that's always really interesting. And salmon, my go-to dish, a little grilled BBQ salmon... one-pot meals are kinda my specialty, because that's lazy cooking and I'm awesome at that.

And the worst meal I made may have been... I'll have to think about it... an avocado soup once, and it didn't turn out.

Yup, that's exactly what happened! Thumbs down.  I know you are gone, but what's your beef stroganoff recipe? It's my favorite ever but I always suck at making it at home.
 Me and my girlfriend would kill for tips on how to get the cauliflower crust to hold together. make sure you squeeze all the liquid you can out of the riced cauliflower after cooking it - less water = better crust Thank you for this reply! That cauliflower crust pizza sounds delicious. As a journalist, how do you protect yourself from govt persecution when you are essentially whistle blowing? 

How do you get information from guarded sources like cops and courthouses when they naturally reject questions?   Graham: Personally, I operate with the assumption that I won't be prosecuted for the information I receive from sources, even though it does happen, especially under this administration. But if you start worrying about that, you're thinking about the wrong things. 

Whistleblowers in general take great risks to reveal injustices, and reporters should be willing to take risks for them, and protect them at all costs.

In New York City, under Commissioner Ray Kelly, police were for the most part forbidden from talking on the record with reporters, even on subjects that reflected positively upon the department. That meant earning, and keeping, a lot of confidence from sources.

This also connects in a way to the issue of police-community relations. The eroding trust between some communities and police departments is often reflected in the wary relationships between the departments and the media. &gt; it does happen, especially under this administration.

I'd love to learn more about this, if anyone has articles to share.  [Stephen Kim](https://firstlook.org/theintercept/2015/02/18/destroyed-by-the-espionage-act/) was charged under the Espionage Act for speaking to the press about North Korea. Information that was already available to the Korean-reading public through Korean newspapers. His case dragged on for four years until he ran out of money and will to fight. Last year he accepted a plea bargain and is currently serving the sentence.

&gt;Indeed, the banality of Rosens story prompted dumbfounded articles with such headlines as, How the Worlds Dullest Story Became the Target of a Massive Leak Investigation. Jon Stewart, host of The Daily Show, mocked the governments case. Thats it? he said. Thats the leak they needed to quash? North Korea to answer sanctions with more nuclear tests? North Korea answers everything with more nuclear! They have a nuclear-test-based economy! Good god that's one of the most depressing things I've ever read.
 https://cpj.org/reports/2013/10/obama-and-the-press-us-leaks-surveillance-post-911.php Great risk is a bit of an understatement... the Espionage Act of 1917 defines whistleblower as traitor. If you give any confidential information to "someone that isn't supposed to have it" (even the press), you are a traitor and have committed treason under that law. Maximum sentence: death. But not the reporter. That's just the person giving it to them.  That's why they stay annonymous like Deep Throat. Two words: Civil Forfeiture.

Honestly though, how has basically daylight robbery from citizens without any judicial supervision been allowed to continue for so long in our country that prides itself on individual liberty? Graham: Civil forfeiture became what it is today because it was a way to get buy-in on the drug war from small police departments. I think as we (maybe) see the drug war wind down, that particular aspect of it will get axed by legislatures. Its not only small police departments getting in the action.  I'm a Border Patrol Agent and my station opened up a second checkpoint to try and seize more vehicles.  This only takes agents out of the field, and unable to repond to actual human or drug smuggling traffic.

But hey, more money for the feds right! Graham: Grachuss, fascinating stuff. I'd like to know more. Shoot me an email: graham@thecrimereport.org. Also, my public key is available here: http://www.thecrimereport.org/viewpoints/2014-02-graham-kates-public-key Very crucial when asking for e-mails about Gov Misconduct.
 What is a public key? Allows you to encrypt text or data that only the person with the private key can decrypt.

Public key is like giving someone a lock to install. The private key (which the person who gave you the public key has) is like the key. 

A public key and private key are a pair. They can only work with each other.  Great summary--every other description tends to get lost in the weeds of how they're generated.

This is a fantastic encryption technology that everyone should know about, especially post-Snowden. Excellent description.  You should disseminate that via https to help prevent spoofing &amp; man-in-the-middle attacks. Also, public keys are small enough to include in reddit comments, so you could do that, too.

EDIT: Inline...

-----BEGIN PGP PUBLIC KEY BLOCK-----

Version: Mailvelope v0.7.0

Comment: Email security by Mailvelope - http://www.mailvelope.com

xsBNBFMCgZQBCACHIHZ0pCCtVW7nL8zhiiO6Gja/CqqmyIjD5qBJt47YCq+J +4janbnX4YUKluIkd71XePah+dK1eaXndmlCB1aGR9HHKbZBo5CC/zaOKrXj uw0sKrHfZYuitXf1WqsokHMRcLWbFk38mU14N12HbICNuXqKS/53LarulkY4 e/PPG0P96yC+wn928PNpT5R+FtLEXoiKAfFLtRu27Npo5//MOaen7xK6l9F8 hto3S1BRVVXUkLWWjj6NOXaMjD+cwGbp8GzGuVbMzZVJnOYNU2EWHrl/MINN eLj+DJ9mSr74ontxfGHTyNnoLLMuRHrwTKkP6hyQpGHUjTjX4DS0wtH1ABEB AAHNKEdyYWhhbSBLYXRlcyA8Z3JhaGFtQHRoZWNyaW1lcmVwb3J0Lm9yZz7C wFwEEAEIABAFAlMCgZgJEHiDRLfq/73sAACR4wf/SsWw6sWpPy1B5Dwe8ZOt ilFYrYVnOENCZ6GN6LYAdJos8pcqZL7BbLp43AejQiNeITGGqUO353aVhUWa eeVCB4ONemEFtUnubWt/zSbdK7tgPlpJu6kdeDmaa4HlwcW7DqDGbds+Y1Sv Z/yr2+ccjgkTdoCXnKHHJR6FH68+QywRAvaRURKdK5C7Ol5N/GasqOTPhkA3 wuvc8aKGNr4C6LQbpr1K3MCynukO6LtB4s9Bcmk0wXwprYCyYCRN5WefVXYr oQCxdpgMI2WEBljpzrZkAhdp2Xw7xaVMi6SDd3a88uYbJHAdj2TPALBVFBXx zDE+Xhode/59veHD2fB2ww== =A2CL

-----END PGP PUBLIC KEY BLOCK----- Graham: Thanks! I really appreciate it. You should do an AMA yourself. Id have a few questions for sure. Yes you are being detained and are not free to go. Pull into secondary. Graham: Follow-up (pointed out by a colleague in the office) there's a big IF tied to the winding down of the drug war. As in, "IF it happens." Shirkey principal: institutions will work to prolong the problem they are created to combat.  They call it a "war" to shun non-supporting Americans for lacking patriotism, and with pot just being legalized in the nation's capital I feel like it'll soon come to an end.

Hopefully this leads to the reformation of civil forfeiture as well. And a reformation of our prison system On a side note, I had my mind blown recently when someone pointed out how futile the War on Drugs is given that a can't even keep drugs out of our prisons. Just think about that: we take it for granted that every prison has drugs, and yet surely if we could win the WoD anywhere, it would be in the most controlled environment if a prison? you could also point out the irony that exists between one half of our government fighting the drug trade and the other half running it.  Irony? That's horizontal integration!

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Horizontal_integration How nice it would be to see civility resurface, and for current prohibitionists to have a "I disagree with what you say (and do), but defend to death your right to say (and do) it" type of revelation, and start to work towards actual compromises that help stabilize the interaction between "straight edge" level sober people, and people who choose/depend on a vice to make it through the day (but who DO make it through the day).

Right now, all they are doing is running a witch hunt and creating a LOT of enemies.

I watched 6 hours of MTV yesterday, and the "COMPLETELY OSTRACIZE AND SHUN ALL THE SMOKERS!!!" propaganda that is playing every 45 seconds is nauseating. P.s. 6 hours of MTV? How?  Catfish marathon ending in season premier with Charlemagne.

Barely survived, but the incentive got me through. Proud to say I have no FUCKING clue what that is.


I'm off the grid! I'M OFF THE GRID!!!! We're all off the grid. Remember when MTV *wanted* our viewership? Catfish is a really dumb show about people who lie on the Internet  (hard to believe i know) As a doctor-lawyer-cowboy-astronaut (PhD, Esquire, BS, Capt.), it is hard to believe. My city has passed a ban on the use of all tobacco products, including ecigarettes, chewing tobacco, and marijuana (somehow included) in all parks and "nature areas." 

You already can't smoke within ten feet of any door or window, which means the sidewalk is out. 

It's a de facto ban on tobacco. I don't even smoke and this pisses me off. 

This is still America. Blue law bullshit and moralizing keeps failing, and they keep shoving it down our throats. 

Edit: I don't smoke, guys, stop yelling at me about polluting "your" air. ..what?!

I despise second hand smoke and I get that they dont want cigarette litter, but...

What the heck is wrong with e-cigs?  The smoker gets their fix, it doesn't make a noxious cloud that sets off my allergies, and it creates no garbage to get thrown on the ground.  It's perfect.

What is their problem? as a former smoker, i've had to stop going to my favorite local bar because it's now a vape/ecig club. there may not be second-hand "smoke" but there is definitely first and second-hand aerosolized nicotine suspension, i can taste, smell, and feel it. outside, do whatever the fuck you want. but i'm not sure it warrants a ban, just like smoking - proprietors should decide, and people can just do what i do. stop going places that allow it. Just to play devil's advocate, there hasn't been enough research done into the long term effects of e-cig smoke, which could be harmful.

Hell we thought tobacco was healthy for aaages. Actually, the only thing that doesn't have extensive testing is the inhalation of the food-grade flavorings in it. Right. And the fact that overwhelmingly vaporizers are being seamlessly rolled into these bans show that this isn't about second hand smoke or non-smokers being exposed to tobacco smoke. Its about stuck up prohibitionists hating on people that they fancy themselves better than.

The sheer number of people who say "im not a prohibitionist" but then ~~suggest~~ support this legislation that does not say tobacco itself is illegal, it just says use of tobacco everywhere is illegal is also nauseating.

THE DOUBLESPEAK. The best part is that I've met folks like the ones you're talking about, holier than thou and eager to legislate against things that they don't like. They drive too fast, they're overweight, they gamble - whatever, they've got their own vice, but because it's seen as acceptable by society at large they don't draw parallels. It's the most absurd thing. Yup.

Raging alcoholism is the biggest one ive seen. They rage on about druggies and junkies and then go home and down a bottle of wine and slurr their words as they insist to their children "nnnnoooo hhonnneyyy, Iiimm nottt dddruuunk. Iiim uh gooddd perssson".

Its totally okay because theirs is totally legal (and also rapidly being identified as the actual drug that is the most dangerous and damaging to your health, studies are saying you have a much larger risk of dying from alcohol poisoning than heroine overdose). Heroine overdose. Death by obsessively rereading Wonder Woman and Catwoman comics? Holy shit, do you have any links to source the heroin thing? I'd be fascinated to read about that. Pay them to care about it. I'm old and remember the 'we don't care' attitude of most police about pot in the 70s. Paying them to care explains it very well. They don't get paid to care. They get to keep the seized money regardless if it is drug money or not.  Interesting:

They train drug dogs by having them find drugs, then giving them snacks and petting them.

They train cops by having them find drugs, then giving them expanded budgets and flatscreen TVs for their break room at the station.

Neither cares about drugs or a sense of duty, or they wouldn't need this additional motivation.  They just care about the reward. If I were a cop, this comment would make me say ouch. I'm not. Have an upvote. I would say that the first few seizures (2 or 3 decades ago) were almost certainly drugs. Then they got used to the idea and applied it more broadly. Something something... gateway drug to the police state. Seizing pot and pot money is to cops what cops claim pot is to potheads.  Try saying that 5 times fast! Or the laws could just be rewritten without the drug war technically ending. It's not necessary that the drug war end for the civil forfeiture laws to be rewritten. It's not even a sufficient condition. The executive branches could simply stop enforcing draconian drug laws, thereby ending the drug war. However, since civil forfeiture has been expanded beyond the scope of simply drug offenders, then the ending of the drug war does not mean that civil forfeiture will cease. I would like to see final say on the schedule system taken from the DEA and given to medical professionals, where it belongs. Allowing the DEA final say is why many drugs that don't belong on schedule 1 sit on it. MDMA (ecstasy) and LSD have successfully been used to treat PTSD and cannabis has no reason to be there whatsoever. I have no problem with the schedule system, but a huge problem with who gets final say. [Non-pharmaceutical industry] medical professionals. FTFY [Non-pharmaceutical industry] medical professionals who are definitely not being paid by BigPharma to say what they want. FTFY

^(you gotta go all the way down the rabbit hole) The drug war has served its purpose of aggrandizing and arming the police.  Now they are ready for their actual mission.  Civil political regulation. [For anyone not familiar with the practice](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3kEpZWGgJks) Well, there went another two hours well spent watching John Oliver ranting. That man is, good, I say, he's GOOD, I mean, he's GOOD! Civil asset forfeiture is actually only applicable to federal law enforcement, and the practice of local police seizing something and having that seizure 'adopted' by a federal agency was recently axed by the attorney general. See http://www.justice.gov/opa/pr/attorney-general-prohibits-federal-agency-adoptions-assets-seized-state-and-local-law for more info.

Edit: thanks to those that have corrected me on this, I did not read this carefully enough and was unaware that civil asset forfeiture was something some states had laws about. From what I understood from the article you linked to, the majority of the states have their own civil forfeiture laws in place rendering the federal program to adopt those assets (thus ensuring they remain out of the hand of criminals) unnecessary. This just means that the states that have pro-civil forfeiture laws will still be able to take your assets, they just don't need the Feds to adopt it to keep it "off the street." Maybe I read it wrong though. Destroy the Drug War and everything associated with it.   Please blow my mind with something you guys have investigated and make me interesting in researching more. Also what got you in this line of work? Graham: I don't know if these will blow your mind, but: One of our reporters spent months trying to get to the bottom of how many wrongful convictions we have each year, if you include the lower-level crimes that the Innocence Project never gets to. The estimate: 50,000 per year. That story is called "America's Guilt Mill": http://www.thecrimereport.org/news/inside-criminal-justice/2015-02-americas-guilt-mill

For a story I did last year, we looked into environmental crime investigations. The gist of that investigation was that less than 1/2 of 1 percent of all potential environmental crimes are ever even investigated: http://www.thecrimereport.org/news/inside-criminal-justice/2014-07-environmental-crime-the-prosecution-gap

Another long-term thing that we did, in partnership with NBC, is a look at a notorious New York City substance abuse provider that's quietly become a lynchpin of the state's re-entry system, costing tens of millions of dollars per year while racking up allegations of poor services, decrepit housing, etc.: http://www.thecrimereport.org/news/inside-criminal-justice/2015-01-the-narco-freedom-case-whos-watching-the-caregivers

What got me into reporting: After college I was looking for a job that wouldn't be boring, and this (almost) never is.
 Perhaps an even larger problem (at least larger in magnitude) is that a huge percentage of federal defendants who plead guilty do so not because they are actually guilty, but because the deck is so stacked against them at trial, and the trial penalty so severe, that no reasonable person would go to trial in the vast majority of criminal cases.  One small reform that could improve that injustice would be provide for some true discovery by federal criminal defendants. Do you think that would be a good reform?  Reform like that will not help because there aren't enough defense lawyers to go around. You can have all the great laws out there but they're useless unless someone is there to stick up for them. For instance, you're supposed to be arraigned within a day or so. But Legal Aid may take three or four days to get you an arraignment because everyone's too busy. 

No one wants to fund defense attorneys because, don't you know, they're all a bunch of shysters trying to get guilty thugs back onto the streets! =(

Unless we really make a commitment to providing counsel to the indigent, then we are not going to get this criminal justice system fixed anytime soon.  Arresting less people would help too. Too many things are illegal, and there is too much color of law. Ending the war on drugs would be a huge step forward.  That misguided disaster has been a huge burden on our justice system, prison system, budget, and detrimental to the enforcement of important laws. I don't think the powers that be care about the delays. The entire justice system has only become another revenue stream. I believe the drug war and things like privitized prisons have only enforced this approach. Arresting people has become good buisness, and the politicians have pitted the police against the population in this endeavour. Funds from law enforcement were never intended to fund bugets, but that's seems to exactly what's going on. This is exactly what taxation without representation is all about. Enacting taxes on the population through law enforcement fines instead legally through normal tax laws. It's illegal and one of the reasons this country even exist today.
 Graham: Absolutely. So many exonerations stem from errors or calculated information withholding during discovery. 