&gt; Currently, two states, Mississippi and West Virginia, do not allow exemptions except for medical reasons

Wow. Mississippi is actually in the Top 2 of a category that isn't bad. For a minute I was a huge fan of this strange "California Bill" person.  Florida Man's cousin Is he related to [Area Man](http://www.theonion.com/channels/area-man/)? Grey Storm doesn't even care about the issue. I was thinking Buffalo Bill's unknown cousin.

Maybe both. I am kinda drunk and thought the same thing. "You go, California Bill!" It rubs the lotion on it's skin... Or it gets the measles again...  [Oh, no! Mr. Biiiillllllll!](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ppAAzECw7qM) &gt;Its concerning to me that the measles outbreak seems to have prompted some hysteria..."

You mean like the hysteria that originated with some immoral, paid off "doctor" publishing a thoroughly debunked study that was the genesis of this whole goddamm mess? There is a point at which the common good outweighs personal freedom.  This is that point.  Anything beyond a medical exemption is lunacy. Even if common good were not an issue, we should also remember that what we're really talking about here is not so much personal freedom but rather parental rights over state rights. The problem at hand isn't that parents aren't immunizing themselves - it is that they aren't immunizing their children.

Parental rights has less scope than personal freedoms - for instance I can decide to hit myself as much as I want, or starve myself as much as I want. If I make a display of it at extreme levels, then people might try to stop me even to the point of institutionalising me until I stop. But as long as my actions are limited to harming only myself I will not be criminally charged. If I were to do such things to my child then the story would be entirely different.

Parents are permitted to make decisions about their children's welfare with the understanding that generally they have the child's best interest in those decisions until the child is old enough to competently make their own decisions. The state interferes when it determines that parents are making decisions that are not at all in their children's best interests. Exactly. It may be my religious belief to fast for an entire week once a year out of respect for my ancestors hardships. It may also be my belief that all people of my faith must do his as well, including young children, must also abstain from food and drink. Now, it's one thing for me to decide to not eat for that long, even if it isn't the healthiest thing to do. But putting a young child through a long fast is dangerous and could be viewed as child abuse. You my feel it is your right as a parent to have your child participate in a religious fast. But putting your child in danger is not your right. It's the state's right to ensure that your child doesn't succumb to your stupidity.  starving a child for a week is child abuse  And so is withholding scientifically proven medical preventative care such as a vaccine.  exactly,  From what I've seen, the state often doesn't interfere enough with some  families, but gets too involved with others whom haven't even remotely come close to poor parenting. That could easily be explained by confirmation bias. Of course you're going to remember the cases of neglect that CPS overlook, or those instances when two otherwise perfectly good parents are put through hell because of a misunderstanding (or worse), but I for one think that the state should be ultimately responsible for the well being of its citizens, or at least of those in a vulnerable position (children, the elderly, the mentally ill...). There's also the fact that involving CPS is a good way to destroy the lives of good people, and that all it takes is one overworked and underqualified investigator responding to one false report to do it.

I had a hell of a time convincing just such a person, when I was fourteen or so, that no, I was not and had never been abused; that the person who called in that claim on my "behalf" was out of their gourd or plain trolling, and that my lacking strong emotional responses/attachments is just the way I've always been.  It certainly didn't help that I didn't know, then, about the autism diagnosis my mother had gotten for me when I was four ... especially considering I was living with my father at the time (they divorced when I was three.)

I can't imagine what my life would've been like if I had failed that month-long process... Just to provide an example of it working: My (non-biological) aunt was greatly abused as a child. The state took her away from her parents and gave her to my grandparents, who raised her right, and she's happy enough. That sounds odd, but she's infertile because of her abuse, and mentally kind of off as well, and mildly disfigured (like enough to notice, but not enough to make it on /r/wtf), so....yeah. But she's married and has a dozen cats, so she's got that going for her. She's definitely a hell of a lot better off than she would be if the state hadn't interfered. Or simply that CPS is less willing to take a trip into the ghetto than it is to respond to situation in an accessible suburb. It sounds cynical, but CPS has a harder time responding to families that are "off the grid", which means CPS sometimes doesn't know where or when to step in even if it wanted to. ...can I ask where you are getting your assumptions from? Former CPS worker here, I spent pretty much all of my time in the ghetto. The majority of my families I worked with and investigated were "off the grid" and I would spend a good portion of my day trying to relocate them.
 Assumption from having no clue what a cps investigation actually entails This is Reddit, after all. Assume until proven wrong, then assume the proof is false. As a former worker who routinely went into the ghetto to interven on behalf of those children I can say you are half right. I and others would risk removing the children (on more than one occasion this got very hairy) only to have the kods returned to the family by the courts. I quit when one of the children I personally removed from an abusive home was returned and a week later killed by being kicked to death. He was only 6. So I personally put blame on the courts, we did our jobs.  As a former CPS worker I assure you that I spent 90% of my time in the field in the "ghetto" and rough and bad sections of town. It was a welcome break to go to the nice side of town for an investigation.  I felt that way to, until I realized people with money were total dicks.  People are dicks, with or without money. 

I've been poor and I've been wealthy-ish. People are just dick heads in new and different ways.  Yeah, but poor people don't sit and threaten you with lawsuits and going to the media for doing your job. 
Well, they do, but it takes a lot and you know they're never serious. When the people in the suburbs did it, they refused to let me in, treated me like garbage, and acted like I personally was trying to make them look bad. This is very true, the threat from middle class was lawsuits, the threat from poor was physical harm.  It was a relief in the sense that I could usually find a clean place to pee and felt safe enough pulling over to type up case notes. Do you really think CPS intervenes more with okay parents than with terrible parents? I'm guessing it happens but it just couldn't be often. They can't be that bad at their jobs. I have one anecdote. I've never seen any okay parents have CPS called on them in my life. Only in movies. My aunt that used to be addicted to some hard drugs had all her children taken away from her. *Irrelevant*: One actually ended up graduating from Berkeley.   During my parents divorce my dad almost lost us to my psycho-ultra-religious-conspiracy-theorist mother, when after getting kicked out of the house, she checked herself into an abused women's halfway house (she wasn't abused at all) and called the CPS and told them we were abused, didn't have enough food or clothes, and that my father was telling us what a horrible person she is (she IS a horrible person, but we all figured that out on our own). After 8 hours of cops and CPS agents,  and having to personally tell them my side of the divorce they finally let my dad have us. I am the oldest and witnessed too much of my patents fights, my mother would wake me up in the middle of the night and tell me dad was scaring her when in reality my dad was just pleading for my mom to see reason. So yeah it does happen... Because crazy.

TL;DR: Mother is crazy, father is falsely accused of poor parenting during divorce. It does happen.  Sounds like CPS did a great job in your case. Got a case from your mother, followed it up with interviews and fact checking, and made the correct call in under a day. Well, they didn't take you away. Would you rather that they not respond to calls like that than that they check? Ok and good parents get reports called on them by vindictive ex's, family, former friends, jealous lovers etc.  there are sooooooo many bullshit reports that come in that drain the system and take time actual cases it is unbelievable. I'm not saying that all cases are dealt with incorrectly, but that incorrectly managing otherwise (un)reasonable situations is something that has been highlighted more often than I'm thrilled about hearing about.

Case in point, there was a recent case of a lady whom had been suspected of killing her third newborn in a row within hours of giving birth. That is something that should never have happened, especially if she had known issues.

Then again over worked, understaffed makes for larger chances of errors (not all this extreme though) happening . It's still unfortunate when things don't happen correctly, for whatever reason. A lot of the time cps would remove or push to terminate but the court system is where it actually fails.  Judges and the court system take disrupting a family and terminating parental rights very seriously and it takes a hell of a lot of evidence and effort to show that cps isn't being a dick and just taking kids because they think the parents are shitty.  What you and I think is bad parenting often is not bad enough in the eyes of the law. Most CPS cases are bogus, but they're also mostly properly handled.  2.5 million of 3.2million  are checked up on and determined to be fine, so about 78% of cases just end there.

Of the remainder, about 686,000 continue and in about 1600 cases, the child is killed.  

[2012 Report PDF](http://www.acf.hhs.gov/sites/default/files/cb/cm2012.pdf).

Remarkably, 1/3 cases is such a pointless accusation, CPS screens them out and doesn't investigate.  

Over half of all cases 59% were reported by professionals that could be arrested for not reporting.  So, when you think about it, even if every case of actual abuse were from a trained professional, even they'd be wrong in over half of cases.

So, what do we do to investigate fewer innocent people?  
As rates of abuse fall, why do reports rise?  
Is a tradeoff worth it, how many children dying would be worth 8 hours and stress to 2.5million families? (about 1800 years) &gt;Case in point, there was a recent case of a lady whom had been suspected of killing her third newborn in a row within hours of giving birth. That is something that should never have happened, especially if she had known issues.

The only way I can think of preventing this would be to set up 24/7 police watch on her during the month surrounding the expected due date, following her inside any hospital visit, and diligently tracking her until she goes into labor where the officer awaits patiently in the delivery room during an 8 hour birthing process where he can immediately take custody of the child and prevent interaction with the mother. 

Do you see any reasonable problems with accomplishing this that might be out of CPS control?  You have to keep in mind there's a fear of getting it wrong when a family seems innocent. We give them such crap when they miss signs but begrudge the hell some people go through when they're actually thorough enough. I would rather have my life inconvenienced than risk even one child being hurt because they were afraid of bothering someone too much. There's a contrast here.  The kind of inquiry you're talking about can create false positives.  And those can destroy lives too. When the H1N1 flue was in the news, in my country, we were pushed to vaccinate our kids, elderlies... But not us adults in good shape.

We seriously thought about it with my ex wife, some people were saying there was an unnecessary risk . A really tiny little one but, well, human tend to exaggerated the odds... Especially when you're talking about your own kid...

What was puzzling me was that I would make a decision for my kid, that might have side effect (small one, but still), and I was not taking the same risk.

So we decided to do it anyway even if we couldn't get the shot, to at least protect our little kid.

When we arrived at the vaccination center, a nurse told me I could get it too if I wanted.

I said yes, straight, for me it was " I may put my kid in a risk, I must take the same risk".

When she asked my ex wife, she said "no, I don't want any of this poison"... But she was ok for our kid to get it... That was quite irrational, till now, I don't really understand the logic behind her decision

Neither of my kid or I did get any flue, and I feel we would have escaped it anyway, I would still make the same decision.


In France, parents gets prosecuted when they don't do some mandatory vaccines.
 Your/your wife's thinking on this seems very backwards. They didn't exempt healthy adults to "spare you the risk", they did it because the vaccines can be scarce and it's important to first and foremost protect those with the most vulnerable or weak immune systems (e.g. the young and the elderly). If the vaccine was actually a serious risk or "poison", they wouldn't offer it to your kids before you. Exactly, I went to a boarding school in the UK and we were all given yearly flu shots because we were in a high risk category. Not because we were young (school was 13-18) but because loads of smelly teenagers living together with the personal hygiene skills of a pig in shit, are an excellent way for a flu virus to run riot. 

The NHS will only offer flu vaccines to high risk categories infants, elderly and groups of people considered at a significantly higher risk of catching it and kindly giving it to everyone they know.  When my university got a small batch of H1N1 vaccines (I think they had 400 shots for a student body of 6000), I was on the priority list because I was an RA. But... by the time the school actually received the shots, the flu outbreak was nearly over, so I think they had something like 7 people actually show up to get vaccinated. I didn't. I have a tendency to pass out when poked with needles - idk why, since I have no fear of needles - and didn't feel like hitting the floor.

A couple days later, they had a couple of nurses set up in the lobby of the dining hall, vaccinating people who were standing in line to swipe their cards for lunch. I thought that was kinda grody... medical procedures (however minor) in the lunch line. Eew. The focus on children and elderly here is because when the very young and the very old get the flu, they are more likely to die from it. A healthy adult like you is simply going to get sick and feel like crap, but that same flu can kill your child or your grandmother. So, get it if you want, but PLEASE make sure the vulnerable populations get it. I don't think /u/adibidibadibi emphasized enough the fact that sometimes resources are just limited. The most at risk population gets it obligatorily, because a lot of stubborn people would refuse and end up dead. But if they judge that the disease isn't a high risk for the general healthy population then they would much prefer to keep as much as possible. They simply don't make enough to vaccinate the whole population. So in future, I know it comes from a good place, but its best to not take a vaccine you don't need, someone else could use it. Fortunately we were traveling when H1N1 happened, and went to a clinic in a foreign country and got free vaccinations with zero drama, rather than having to deal with costs and (politically/economically caused) shortages in the U.S.  There was no bullshit about prioritization where we were, and there shouldn't have been here. Ah, I was traveling (in the UK) when H1N1 happened, and spent 3 days in a London hotel with down pillows. I don't think I'd ever encountered down pillows before, but it turns out, I'm allergic. You know when you get a sore throat just from drainage, and then when that starts to heal you get that terrible lingering hacking cough? I had to fly back to DC with that cough. I was so afraid I'd get quarantined at the airport. I bought several packs of black currant flavored Halls (omg best flavor) and tore my mouth up just chaining them one after the other for the entire flight. My teeth were so fuzzy when we landed, but I managed to not be super annoying hacking on the plane, and I didn't get pulled aside in the airport for flu :D The law seems useless with that exemption. You absolutely positively have to get your kids vaccinated, unless you don't want to.  Yeah, my mom lied about religious beliefs to get us into school unvaccinated, we were practically athiestic growing up, it was a load of bullshit. So yeah, pretty much 'Don't feel like it? Lie.' What did she do, tell them you were Amish or something? I honestly don't know actually. I can't recall if I've ever asked. Are you saying the law would be useless with the medical exemption?  There are legitimate cases where kids with compromised immune systems or things like leukemia prevent them from getting a vaccine.  Either we provide exemptions for those few kids or we just prevent those kids from attending school. 

This law would not allow the religious belief exemption either.  Agreed. Its not even much of a stretch.  *If* you want the state to educate your kids for you, *then* they must be vaccinated. Parents with a real objection can homeschool, but unvaccinated kids won't be allowed to spread disease through schools.  This *must* apply to private educational institutions as well. We cannot continue to allow crackpots to scare parents into threatening the public health. 

I was heard a stories on NPR yesterday that a pediatrician office will no long provide medical services to un-vaccinated children. They apparently had a measles outbreak in the waiting room (kids under the age of 1 cannot be vaccinated yet) and parents had to wait for 3 weeks to see if their kids go it and parents were demanding they no longer accept un-vaccinated patients. 

And this is not personal freedom; this is parents making a stupid decision that could potentially kill their child or another parents child that cannot be vaccinated. 

 I believe that some libertarians would argue that this is an unacceptable way of thinking. If you think that no one but individuals themselves should decide what goes into their bodies, forcing vaccinations violates that most sacred of rights  the right to your own body.

The only way around it for these libertarians is to say that spreading disease is analogous to physical assault and thus that those who decide against vaccinations run the risk of making themselves guilty of this crime anytime they shake a stranger's hand.

But that the government would be able to charge those who decide against vaccinations with assault (or maybe even attempted murder) would probably be of little comfort after your immunocompromised child dies because someone high on Murray Rothbard was eager to assert their "individual autonomy".

Much like when countering the argument that the invisible hand of the market will automatically make a company selling a dangerous product bankrupt, one can argue that the damage from rejected vaccinations will already be irreversibly done at the time the penalty is finally imposed. Only pre-emptive legislation (laws forcing vaccinations, laws regulating the safety of products, laws against drunk driving) can meaningfully aspire to ensure that the damage will never be done in the first place.

I find the issue of vaccines particularly interesting for the libertarian perspective, because epidemiology is a "collectivist" science by definition, which means that policy based on this science very easily clashes with political philosophies based on individual freedom. Epidemiology assumes that no man is an island, which is the opposite of how individualist political philosophy denotes the citizen. Statist "socialists" on the other hand have considerably less problems with political suggestions from epidemiology, because to them, the needs of the many outweigh the needs of the few and freedom is not an intrinsic value but rather a means to an end. except this issue has absolutely nothing to do with libertarians or their "own" bodies, it has to do with their *children's* bodies.

pardon me, but i like to think infants and little kids aren't old enough to comprehend what being a libertarian is. 

...i could be wrong though. Someone might correct me, but I believe that children under philosophies stressing individual political autonomy are viewed as an extension of the parents, or as their parents' property for which the parents are ultimately responsible until the child reaches a certain age.

This means that when children are forcibly vaccinated, the ones who are being forced are actually the parents and it's their autonomy that is being violated. Injecting the child with a vaccine is morally and politically tantamount to injecting the parent insofar as the freedom of the moral object is concerned. Property? So, if a parent beat their kids to bloody pulp, the State has no right to intervene because it violates the parent's rights / right to "discipline"? What about parents who refuse critical transfusions or treatments for something that is medically available because of religious beliefs? Do children not deserve protections from shitty parents in this Libertarian heaven? &gt; If you think that no one but individuals themselves should decide what goes into their bodies, forcing vaccinations violates that most sacred of rights  the right to your own body.

I think this succinctly captures the only semi-rational argument against mandatory vaccinations.  Giving the government the ability to force ordinary people to put something in their bodies opens the door for all sorts of unsavory possibilities. Allowing people to use religion as an excuse to expose the masses to unnecessary disease opens the door for all sorts of unsavory possibilities. Fortunately, even in places where they are mandatory we haven't seen any evidence of this taking place. I'm not sure, I'm somewhat a libertarian and I have no problem with mandatory vaccinations.  If your child is attending public school or going to a public place like Disneyland, vaccinations are fine.  Like your drunk driving analogy...if you're on a public road, the state has every right make sure you're sober.  

However, if you take away my right to drink alcohol or avoid the flu shot on my own land, we have a problem. Hey thanks for the perspective and I'm sure everyone can appreciate your avoidance of the typical talking points. Your point on the collectivism of Epidemiology as a science and it's impact on individualists...interesting stuff indeed! It will be a long, hard fight to eliminate a "religious" exemption. Maybe even an impossible one. No it won't and certainly not in California where even the Jesuit-educated Jerry Brown is now clear on the concept and religious exemptions are the next to go. Democrats dominate the Assembly and the Senate and Brown will sign any bill that removes religious exemptions as well. They are not the greatest problem, however, it's the crunchy dumbass moms and this bill handles them. "The needs of the many outweigh the needs of the few" In this case it is needs vs beliefs predicated on lies and misinformation. They still have the freedom to express their opinion. They just can't enroll their children in school.  Belief does not matter here. There are knowable facts and realities at play. Beliefs counter to those facts are incorrect and should not be respected by public policy. It is a fact there are pathogens capable of infecting and killing people, particularly children. It is a fact we can intervene to retard infection and transmission. It is a fact those methods carry no consequence outside of uncommon individual immunodeficiencies. It is a fact that refusing to immunize a child who can be weakens population level resistance, which facilitates transmission, which will harm children. Vaccination opponents are promoting a harmful course of (in)action. They need to be defeated.  &gt; uncommon individual immunodeficiencies

Phrase of the day.

 Say that five times fast. I tried but I fucked it up pretty bad on the 3rd read-through :/ &gt; Belief does not matter here. There are knowable facts and realities at play.

This simple concept doesn't curtail much of the Christian supremacist legislation. I doubt it'll do a lot of good here. Losing an ability to dodge the law gets the self-proclaimed believer hot under the collar and we can't have that, now can we?

If logic and facts were more important to politicians than votes, we'd live in a much different world. I would truly like to live in a world where this would apply - "fact before belief" - but as we can see in nearly every area of our lives, respect for beliefs still trumps respect for facts. 

This is why I think freedom from religion is one of the most important organizations in today's society. If there is freedom of religion, we also need the freedom from religion for those people who don't want to base their moral values on bronze age writings. There's so much that religion is holding back that, otherwise, would move humanity into a much much brighter future. Unfortunately, "freedom of religion" is being implemented as "special rules for the religious" and "special advantages for the religious."

That's a recipe for chaos. Someone else's hobby shouldn't affect how you or I live our lives. Umm this isn't a Christian thing, this crosses all religious and socioeconomic boundaries.  People distrust the government. Look at Portland and their anti-fluoride battle if you don't believe (pun intended) me. Well, I'm a moderate anarchist, so I heartily endorse a healthy distrust of government. For far too many, politics is just another religion. Opinions are formed and votes are cast with as little thought as they give to what god they worship.

I was referring specifically to the fact that disallowing "beliefs" from playing a role in what could create a public health crisis will be seen by the Jesus brigade as a wedge that might come between them and their God-given rights to get a free pass on other things that other people get punished for.

What's next? They won't be able to abuse and neglect their children and hide behind their bibles? They might have to send them to evil worldly public schools? This shit might lead to laws being applied equally across the board to all citizens and other signs that Satan is indeed among us. &gt; Any proposal to eliminate the personal belief exemption is absolutely insane, according to Alan Phillips

What a twat!

&gt; Phillips said many parents were concerned about reports that vaccines can damage their childrens' health and they want more scientific proof of their safety.

Well, there's evidence going back to the 17th century that says vaccines are fine and basically no evidence they're not. Plus, these idiots wouldn't believe the evidence anyway!

&gt; Wholesale doing away with that exemption eliminates the compromise and its regressive, McReynolds said.

No, the resurgence of preventable diseases is regressive, you moron. Evidence is irrelevant to an irrational argument. Just look at the subject of climate change, or evolution. &gt; Well, there's evidence going back to the 17th century that says vaccines are fine and basically no evidence they're not.

Agreed generally, but be a little careful of that one.  There have been incidents of badly produced vaccines, so it's not quite like there's *no* evidence.  It's just not very *relevant* evidence, just like cases of E. coli contamination *probably* shouldn't encourage you to stop buying food (although it hopefully *does* raise your awareness enough that you pay more attention to where the food/vaccines are coming from, who controls and thwarts the process, etc.). That's not the vaccine's fault, though. That's like saying because Thalidomide caused deformities that all immunomodulatory drugs are bad or, as you say, because E. Coli contamination can happen that all food is bad. I genuinely hope that both Mr Phillips and Reynolds actually believe that vaccines are harmful. If they're just there to make a buck while advocating and fighting for such an awful cause then I hope there's a hell for them to rot in for eternity. There are isolated incidents of bad reactions to vaccines, and even state funds sets aside for compensating such victims. No medicine is without such risks. I think to say there's no evidence against them is not actually true and therefore leaves the door open to antivaxer rebuttals. The point is that a 0.000017% chance of negative reaction is simply the price we pay to live in a society without these diseases. People shouldn't get to enjoy the benefits of that society without paying the price everyone else pays to make it possible. Good.  This is 2015, not the fucking oregon trail. I heard on NPR yesterday that the religious exemption would likely be considered separately from the personal belief exemption. I would like for someone to explain to me what the difference is.

Edit: I do understand the subtle difference, as has been pointed out below, but I think the difference is bullshit.  To me, religion falls squarely under personal belief.  I don't care if you think it's because your god forbids it, or if it's because you don't believe the science.  That still qualifies as a personal belief to me, and are equally wrong. Religious : God is against vaccines (or messing with God's creations) so our religion forbids it. 

Belief: I believe vaccines cause autism,  so we forbid it.  The difference is the First Amendment which prevents the government from restricting an individuals religious practices.

If such an exemption were not provided, the law would be unconstitutional. The problem I have with that is who decides what religious beliefs are valid and should be protected by the constitution?  Some religions believe the proper punishment for wearing the wrong thing is to be stoned to death, or that sacrificing animals on certain holidays is ok.  What if I made my own religion and decided that my god thought clothes were wrong.  Would my child then have the constitutional right to show up to school naked every day?

The separation of church and state is as much about the government not infringing on religious freedoms as it is about not allowing religious beliefs to influence public policy.  Every weird, fringe religion doesn't deserve special consideration when their practices are in direct conflict with public health and safety. That's a valid concern. There is a philosophical disparity in protecting "beliefs". Sorting out the details between beliefs and laws is handled by the courts. And, *that's* the issue.

I'm just suggesting that this is a practical decision. It was likely meant to prevent numerous lengthy and costly court battles which would ultimately lead to the law being ruled unconstitutional. At that point, the whole law would be unenforceable and completely nullifies any good it might have done. 

Providing for a belief exemption weakens the law. But, without, there would be no law. It sucks but it's a decision to settle for some rather than none. I don't disagree with any of this.  Good day sir. The government is basically saying that it's no longer legal for parents to permit their children to be distribution centers for preventable diseases.

I think it's awesome, personally.   That's good, because someone's belief shouldn't matter if he is an idiot.

Things should go like this:

* - Hey, your child needs a blood transfusion / vaccine so he may live, otherwise he will die tomorrow
* - No, that is against our beliefs! God will save him!
* - You are clearly an idiot and your right to make this decision has been waived. Please leave the premises or you will be escorted out. As I recently mentioned to a friend, "I like when people make emotional arguments about scientific facts.  Then I know who I can safely ignore." Participation in society requires some fundamental rules for getting along. One of which is not putting others in harms way. You aren't allowed to go off wheeling through a children's playground, no matter how much you want to; your rights to be an idiot don't supersede public safety.  You also aren't allowed to negligently infect people with communicable diseases. 

Failure to not put people in harms way usually lands you in prison. In other words you are removed from society as you are a danger to other members of said society. 

 Get your damn kids vaccinated and stop putting other kids at risk because of your own selfishness.  This is a great example of how libertarianism fails. It works great when everyone has a minimum amount of responsibility, education, and common sense. Short of that, it ends up just being an excuse for shitty behavior.  I don't think it conflicts with Libertarianism really. You still have the personal freedom to home school your children if you don't want to get them vaccinated.

I would equate this to letting drunk people drive. It's not about putting your own life at risk, but the lives of others. That's why it's banned and I would guess most Libertarians don't want to legalize drunk driving. Works both ways. If the government is good, then it's good to be a socialist. If the government is filled with morons then you're thankful you have freedom and individuality.  In some situations you're smarter than the government, in some situations the government is smarter than most people.  I think it's better to let the stupid people die from their own consequences, and have a small government that doesn't dictate its stupidity onto me, rather than have a big government that saves stupid people, but at the same time dictates its stupidity onto me.

See what I mean? It depends on what side you're on. If you're smarter than the government (say an atheist in Saudi Arabia), individual rights are important. If you're dumber than the government, then it's good to be a socialist. For some reason I am quite pleased with your description of government, and who wants what type and when.  The challenge becomes knowing what kind of government you have, as well as what kind of person you are.  Is our government the pinnacle of idiocy?  Or is it a nefarious oligarchy designed to keep me down?  Tragically, in America I think it's both.  So WTF to do.... oh right, I almost forgot the third possibility that the government might actually be there to help people, and to some extent actually does. It sounds like you're drawing the conclusion that being libertarian means you believe you're smarter than the government and everyone who disagrees is stupid "The legislation does not address children who are completely home-schooled. It would still allow children to avoid vaccination for medical reasons including allergic responses and weak immune systems. The mandate only applies to children attending public or private schools."

This is the problem right here.  Make it too difficult and some parents will bash public education even more and develop a persecution complex.  That's also one more kid who's education content and quality will be determined solely by their parents.

I don't know where the balance is, but it's somewhere.  If there was a way to achieve a high level of vaccine compliance while allowing for the occasional exemption, that would be ideal.   I think, overall, this bill would be a step in the right direction, but I agree that this part is a little bit concerning.  

Now you have the parents of little Johnny who feel like victims because they can't do whatever the hell they want with no regard for others, since that's what they think the US Constitution, a document they have never read, gives them the right to do.  They withdraw him from public school, still allow him to infect others in public places, and proceed to be the sole providers of his education, which is a scary thought in itself. Homeschooling should also be abolished. I know a few people who were homeschooled, including my adopted daughter, and they don't know so many things that we learned about in school. In my experience, lazy, control freak and/or religious nuts homeschool. Not to say there aren't some good or great homeschooling parents, but none I've seen. &gt; Homeschooling should also be abolished.

I think that's a little drastic. There are good programs out there, and good parents.

However, I do think that there needs to be more effective way to enforce parents to follow the program the way it's supposed to be followed. And, all programs need to be approved by the state. There shouldn't be entire science curriculums that teach pseudoscience because of "religious freedom".

I grew up in the environment where people would mostly homeschool because "OMG SCHOOLS TEACH EVOLUTION", so I get where you're coming from. My own mother in law was especially bad, as not only did she homeschool for religious reasons, she didn't actually actively teach or participate. She just handed the work to her kids and expected them to learn on their own. Thankfully they turned out OK, but it's still a horrible situation. You could be allowed to homeschool if you get training and pass some exams which qualify you to teach. No. My mother is a fully "qualified" teacher and she should not have homeschooled me.

In my case, I was able to catch up with school in my teens without much trouble, but it still wasn't fair. Also, it fucks you up socially pretty bad. I don't think I would be as narcissistic as I am if I had to actually face other people growing up.

My sister was also homeschooled. She has a full scholarship for her Masters degree in biology and does not believe in evolution, and thinks the world is only a few thousand years old. She writes the correct answer on tests, and then a paragraph on why she "knows" the "proper" answer. She usually gets around ~95% on papers, but 10% taken off for those comments. She might even get into med school, and probably is going to kill people because of those beliefs if she slips past the radar.  She should be failed. You can not be a good biologist if you do not even believe in one of the fundemental forces of biology.


Imagine being an electronics engineer and not believing in magnetism.

It also seems that whoever "qualified" your mother failed as badly as the ones letting your sisters crackpot beliefs slide. I know. It's crazy that the university is willing to fund a Masters student who disagrees with basic fundamentals... Makes me pretty sad to be attending university myself, as you can be an idiot about things and still pass.

My mother is qualified to teach by the same standardized board as the rest of the country. It's pretty easy to get through teacher's college. &gt;I know. It's crazy that the university is willing to fund a Masters student who disagrees with basic fundamentals

On the other hand, it helps me feel more confident in my ability to get through a graduate program if even those turds can make it! I see no problem if the home schooled kids take standardized tests in supervised environments regularly to check their progress. As long as the states have a mandated minimum curriculum that the children need to learn.

A motivated kid would probably do a lot better in home than at school these days given the material available on internet for learning. Also learning stuff where the kid is advanced, say maths on their own pace will keep them challenged and progress a lot faster. Negatives are lack of social interaction but could be fixed with sports etc.

The problem I see with homeschooling is the parents who most often make the decision. &gt;  supervised environments regularly to check their progress

These exist, but the problem is that it's way to easy to pencil-whip forms, etc. Not to mention there's a conflict of interest, since those individuals who are checking the progress of these kids are "in on the scam", so to speak, and probably homeschool their own kids.

It's almost the same situation as the vaccine issue: It's *technically* required, and it's *technically* enforced, but any idiot can easily avoid it. Absolutely this, along with any non-accredited schools.  Here in Indiana, my co-worker's fudie sister got her teaching "degree" from a non-accredited Baptist diploma mill.  Now she teaches at her crazy church's grade school, which is...non-accredited!  I can only imagine how far behind those kids will be once they get to middle school, if any of them even make it instead of being home schooled at that point. Likely because of where I live, I've known both types of homeschool parents.  I could not in good conscience agree with abolishing homeschooling, though I'd agree that there needs to be stricter requirements put on homeschooling parents.

Most public schools in my city are shit.  The exceptions are the magnet schools, which don't have enough spots for all the qualifying students.  There's an annual lottery to see which of the brightest students get to go to the (quite excellent) magnets, and which get left in the shit schools.  It's heartbreaking.  There's also one non-magnet district that is well funded and performs excellently, however only the wealthiest can afford to move there due to home prices.  Private schools are far out of reach for many of us as well, due to tuition costs.

My son starts kindergarten next fall.  We're going to try to get him in the accelerated magnet that teaches a grade ahead.  He's ready for a first grade level, because of our (but mostly my wife's) working with him. We would be far better off with a second income, but if he doesn't get in because of a lottery...  I don't know.  Homeschool is an option we'd be forced to at least discuss.  He deserves far better than what we are zoned for. I agree that extended homeschooling is typically bad.   Even if the parent/teacher is intelligent and open-minded, there will be problems.  The parent/teacher will carry the same strengths, weaknesses, teaching style, expectations, and prior life experiences with them year after year. However, there is a place for part-time and short-term homeschooling.

My district's homeschool program helped to free up my schedule allowing me to take a couple college classes without neglecting mandatory requirements.  I had a few classmates that used homeschool to overload credits so they could graduate as juniors.  Of course, I had classmates use homeschool to retake classes they previously failed also.  No problem being enrolled in public school and taking homeschool classes to supplement.

I also know peers and now parents that spent a semester to a few years traveling or living remotely.  That includes a couple wealthy families that sailed.  More often though, it has been families living at some far off wilderness lodge or remote field station.  Below 10 kids in a community and the parents' choices are to have kiddo live with someone during the school year, to homeschool, or to move.  

On the short-term front you also have armed services kids that move often.  It's not uncommon for kids that move during high school to opt to finish things at home out instead of enrolling in yet another new school.  Parents may also pull their kid out of school if they aren't fitting in or are being bullied.  I work with several of those kids through a sports and they use the program for homeschool PE credit.

I also take no issue with parents that homeschool or opt for private programs in K-1.  The public schools around here have largely shifted from the more play-based half day kindergarten to academic 3/4 day to full-day programs prevalent now -- something I think it misguided.  

My view is that homeschooling has a role to play.  However, it should be for a limited duration and all programs need a solid curriculum developed &amp; overseen by qualified teaching professionals.   Spent a little too long trying to figure out who 'California Bill' was But...I should have the right to expose my child to an unnecessary risk of life long disability from polio or death from measles!   Autism.  Big Pharma. Additives.  Melon Juice stops disease. /s Ha, I had a 20 year old uneducated unemployed formula-feeding (by choice) mom tell me I'm a bad parent because I let my son have salt. She's an anti-vaxxer whose baby daddy has Hep B, but she refuses to get herself or her daughter vaccinated and continues to have unprotected sex with him. She is convinced she is super healthy because she doesn't drink soda or eat sugar (somehow she is still overweight). She probably has melon juice for brains.  Maybe you should show her a picture of a goiter  oh the irony... Nursing babies gain so much of their immune systems from their mothers... to formula-feed *and* refuse to vaccinate?  Why not just shake the baby after a nice long pregnancy of drinking every day. You do have that right. And I have the right to not want your potentially unhealthy child going to school with my vaccinated child. Have fun homeschooling your kid in your bus hippie.

/s &gt;Currently, 13,592 children have personal belief affidavits on file; of those, 2,764 were identified as based on religious beliefs.Pan said if the bill passes, the religious exemption would also disappear but he is open to a separate conversation on that issue.

Whelp... &gt;Currently, two states, Mississippi and West Virginia, do not allow exemptions except for medical reasons, 

I wasn't expecting that. Slightly less self-loathing of being a West Virginian. But only slightly, the coal industry has effectively bought our state government. GOOD!

Freedom of religion is perfectly ok...but ONLY as long as it doesn't harm others. If your fantasy religion hurts my kids, your fantasy religion needs to be reigned in and put in the box it belongs. 

 This would still allow religious exemption. All it would stop is the "I don't want to" option for opting out of vaccinations when going to  public school.  Kind of a silly bill then because it doesn't close the biggest loophole. 

You can always make up a religious excuse:"My Jedi religion won't allow vaccinations!" I have an idea that would turn this whole thing around or a large part of it anyway.  Let people opt out of vaccinations, but then make it a law that they cannot get medical insurance and if an outbreak can be traced back to them, make them liable for damages/litigation. These people are beyond irresponsible.  I would like to see them take their unvaccinated children to a third world country where the majority of people are not immune to diseases.  They are against vaccines but they rely on the fact that most people are responsible and immunize their children so their little snowflakes won't get sick. 
"It would still allow children to avoid vaccination for medical reasons including allergic responses and weak immune systems."


Sadly all these parents will find a Doctor who will say the child is allergic to the shot and can't have it. It's not going to change much. &gt; "Any proposal to eliminate the personal belief exemption is absolutely insane, according to Alan Phillips, a North Carolina attorney who has represented clients in California and other states seeking exemptions."

I just gave [the office of Alan Phillips](http://www.vaccinerights.com/attorneyphillips.html) a call and left him a message that I disproved of his activities and that I felt that his use of the word "insane" was misinformed. Can someone seriously explain why we have to fight these old battles seemingly endlessly? It would be one thing if it were just the lunatic fringe bringing stuff like this up, but I actually know people whose opinions I would otherwise respect that have bought into this. I just don't get it.  I believe for the most part this is the best route.  They are not making the parents vaccinate,  they are saying if you want to place your kid in a school you must vaccinate to protect the other children. My only concern is they are setting up a window for a legal challenge by including private schools.  A private school should be able to handle this how they chose their own policy. Plenty of other states have had these exact rules or even stricter rules for vaccination on the books for years.  Good. No parent has the right to negligently allow their children to come to harm  It's odd that so many states allow exemptions for such things, on whatever their overall political position stands, and that several conservative politicians like to talk of parent "freedom". Yet, one of the most politically conservative states, Mississippi, does not allow exemptions of any kind. If you want your child to be in a MI school, they have to be vaccinated. No arguments.

That, of course, is dependent on whether you'd want your child in a MI school. But if you do, the kid gets his shot. That's something the state does right. I wish there didn't have to be laws for things like this lol Assembly Bill 2109 was supposed to make it harder for parents to obtain personal exemptions, but the legislature and Governor Brown modified it to the point where it does not have the intended effect. Contrary to popular belief, [California *does not* have a law that requires parents to be counselled by a doctor prior to obtaining a personal exemption.](http://scienceblogs.com/insolence/2013/11/07/california-children-betrayed-governor-jerry-brown-and-the-neutering-of-a-law-designed-to-make-vaccine-exemptions-harder-to-get/) A clear and undiluted law that abolishes personal exemptions is the best solution, but me thinks the same forces that caused the legislature and Governor Brown to cave on AB2109 will blow a gasket if that happens. Just can't trust Sacramento to recognize the dangers posed by quack "doctors" and misguided, rich parents who feel entitled to thumb their noses at the rest of us.

 Good! Though, it's really sad it had to come to this. I wonder if antivaxxers are going down the path of the Mormon fundamentalists if these kind of bills start passing.  i wouldn't be surprised if we start seeing antivaxxer communities starting to pop up in the middle of nowhere to avoid complying with the laws. I grew up in California and my mother was so opposed to vaccines that I would not have gone to school if vaccination exemption didn't exist. To think there are parents just as delusional as her out there who will be doing exactly that to their children. Its what's best for the masses, but god those poor few. This really isn't a religious debate at all. I have friends who are passionately atheist who are against vaccines. Its a bummer cause they're pretty smart otherwise.  &gt;Phillips said many parents were concerned about reports that vaccines can damage their childrens' health and they want more scientific proof of their safety.

Let's not even pretend for a second that they accept scientific proof. They most likely, actively evade it. &gt;Pan said if the bill passes, the religious exemption would also disappear but he is open to a separate conversation on that issue.

Seems a bit counter-productive to his cause in the first place. There should be no discussion of religious exemption on the issue of the health of the majority being put at risk. Why  have a "separate conversation on that issue" if  you already acknowledge that we should act before more children "sicken and die". Overall, his head is in the right place though.

&gt;Any proposal to eliminate the personal belief exemption is absolutely insane, according to Alan Phillips, a North Carolina attorney who has represented clients in California and other states seeking exemptions.

Ok...

&gt;Given the concerns that I have, one of which is **this unknown about serious adverse events**, collectively I have a concern that anybody would not have a right to make that decision for themselves and their children, he said.

Oh boy. And this guy is a fucking attorney who I presume is educated. This is sad, and he's part of the problem. California Bill is an alright dude. I made the mistake of reading the comments on that article.....

http://i.giphy.com/kf6HJDE0XAkvu.gif Because of the "Greater Good" I would vote in favor of this. There have ALWAYS been some risks associated with vaccines. You don't want to live in a world without vaccines. its a good idea.  just like if ppl were exempt from wearing a seat belt because they believed it kills, well then you get the idea Please support that bill people! There are anumber of people that really cannot get vaccinated, but the lunatics who don't "
just because" should not have legal support to put other peoples lives in danger. Yet they are considering a "religious exemption."

If your religious beliefs put your children in harm's way, you need a different religion. It's about time. Such a great thing. Did I read right... Mississippi is one of two states with no exemptions? 

My faith in the state has gone back up to 1%. Don't worry, it was probably just intended to keep a bunch of poor kids out of schools. s/ DAE: The children!?!?  I have to say only lethal and very harmful diseases should be vaccinated against. Because do we really need a shot for a flu? People die from the flu.  Last time I did not get a flu shot was 9 years ago.  I got the flu which weakened my immune system, so I also got laryngitis, strep throat, and a sinus infection.  I was in bed for almost three weeks with a fever of 105.  I will give the same argument as any vaccine:  there are many people who cannot get the shot so we all need to get it to stop it's spread to these people (mostly infants and the elderly.)  If you need more look at how many people die from the flu every year. About fucking time.  The time to strike is now. Once again a law is required for the idiotic actions of the few... The same people who think a parent shouldn't be able to abort a child because it kills a child, believe a parent should be able to decide whether their child gets life saving vaccines.  Shit should be a federal law.
Don't believe in vaccines? fuck off to a private school you brainwashed idiota
fucking making me swear in spanglish and shit As soon as I got to 'idiota' my brain read the rest in a thick Mexican accent. Why is this in /r/atheism? I believe this is infringing on freedom, but I also believe if your child is not vaccinated then they should be outcasted from any public service, including schools, hospitals, buses, or any other institution or place where there might be other people.

Basically if you're an anti vaxxer you need to be in your own isolated community. This is a social problem and not a government problem. It's a slippery slope once you give the government the power to make medical decisions in your family.  Science trumps everything in these kinds of cases. Individual rights are fine as long as they do no threaten the welfare of others. Refusing to vaccinate one's children puts the child at risk and it puts the population at risk without any meaningful benefit to anyone. This is not the government coming into your home and force feeding you an untested chemical. This is physicians acting upon a mountain of evidence to prevent illness and death among our most vulnerable fellow humans. If you withhold reasonable medical care from your children, that is considered neglect and the government has a responsibility to step in. Vaccines currently don't fall under that umbrella because they aren't technically a treatment, they are a preventative. However, it is becoming clear that many parents do not have the ability to understand how important these vaccines are, and children are getting sick from diseases that they shouldn't be. 

You aren't allowed to starve your children. You aren't allowed to withhold water from your children. You aren't allowed to break your child's bones. You aren't allowed to put your kid in the trunk of your car. You shouldn't be allowed to withhold proven, safe vaccines that benefit us all.  The real question is do you consider anti vaxxers child abusers? I do.  They knowingly put their children and other people's children in harms way.  I don't think it is a slippery slope for the government to stop child abusers.   &gt; I believe this is infringing on freedom

And jailing a murderer or a rapist infringes on the murderer or rapist's freedom. What's your point ?

&gt; Basically if you're an anti vaxxer you need to be in your own isolated community.

Well the anti vaxxers don't want to live in isolation. What now ?

&gt; This is a social problem and not a government problem.

False dichotomy. It's 100% the government's role to step in and correct certain social problems. Like drunken driving or child abuse.

&gt; It's a slippery slope once you give the government the power to make medical decisions in your family.

No it's not. Please provide a rational argument or demonstrable mechanism by which abusive government action could follow if we pass this bill.

Let me ask you this:

In your opinion, which option is easier to implement and infringes the least on people's freedom:

Option A: "outcast" the non vaccinated from any public service, including schools, hospitals, buses, or any other institution or place where there might be other people.

Option B: Parents can no longer enroll an unvaccinated child in school by claiming a "personal belief exemption" That's exactly what this bill says, but to a lesser extent. Kids would have to be vaccinated to attend public school. No one is forcing anyone to vaccinate against their will. Vaccinations are required for public school enrollment, but parents are also able to simply say "my kid does not have any because of my personal belief" and the public school would have to accept the kid completely unvaccinated. I don't see how getting rid of this exemption is scary or infringing on anyone's rights.  You are not being forced to do anything, you just have to follow same rules as everyone else if you want public schooling for your child.  Do you really want to isolate a child from society because of a choice their parents made?  The comments on that article make my head hurt. Good. I hope it passes. Man look at us.. finally getting smart.. At first I was for the Bill, but then I thought, these people not vaccinating their children are f***ing morons.  Its horrible but, let the kids die, it will end those gene lines hopefully, let Darwin claim a few.  

You cant fix stupid.  Let them perish on their own accord. Hm I'm watching that on the news right now. I thought more people would take the religious approach h to this. I was shocked to see that so few religious people where exempt.  Good. Maybe next they can do the same with parents making their kids into vegans without letting them try meat first. Cruel. California Bill? Any relation to Yosemite Sam? I saw this posted on a radio station page on Facebook and anti-vaxers couldn't agree on if whether liberals or conservatives were taking away their freedom. Others supported vaccines, stating that they don't care what anyone else does since it can't affect their already vaccinated and therefore immune children.
 Reading the comments on that article was a big mistake. first rule of the internet, NEVER read the comments Finally California Bill, the rootin'est tootin'est lawmaker in the west. interesting. Right as Mississippi is trying to do the opposite. I was just thinking how weird it is that I probably can't get a religious exemption from decency laws (eg saying I'm a nudist jain monk or anything) which is an act that doesn't really harm anyone whereas I could get an exemption from vaccines, which seems insane. Good. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RfdZTZQvuCo Do it!!! this is fucking brilliant, if some goat worshiping fuck has something to say about that, ill eat their goat.  not sure why this in atheism though... exactly, as i said above, anti-vaccination stupidity is not bound to just one or any religion, these nuts are everywhere.  "The state of California has been allowing oil companies to dump millions of gallons of tainted wastewater into protected, drinkable water sources.









A recent report released by the San Francisco Chronicle reveals that since 1983 California's Division of Oil, Gas and Geothermal Resources has been allowing oil companies to pump wastewater contaminated with oil, brine and chemicals into the earth - even in places where it can spread to protected aquifers. 












The tainted water has already been pumped through 171 wells in aquifers suitable for drinking and irrigation.










California is suffering from one of the worst droughts in history. The state should be doing everything in its power to protect the precious little drinkable water that we have left; not give a free pass to drilli." In Texas you can't enroll your kids without record of vaccinations. I honestly can't understand why anyone would put their children at risk over belief in fairy tales.  Fairy tales like capital punishment reducing violent crime for example? Who is California Bill?  This is why I have a problem with states laws.  It's going to take forever for our country to support this because Congress won't want to bother with it,  instead letting each state decide on their own. Just like same sex marriage, and medical marajuana. This is why we are not progressing as a nation. who is California Bill? The last heir to the Wild Bill. The fact that it has gone this far is disgusting. Hipster douche bags not getting their kids their shots because it's trendy and hip to go blind and die.... Bunch of cock asses.  The people in CA not getting vaccinated are the rich righties, not the broke lefties. Sorry I'm speaking for where I live, very anecdotal. I live in a very liberal college town and have met some very intelligent anti vax people who seem to be doing it if only because it's cool to be against something, I think it's the same reason they are atheists... It wouldn't  bother me so much if they didn't have kids.  Oh I am sure there are some that fall into the young liberal side, since they weren't around when things like measles were around. So, they don't think it is a big deal. I am middle aged and measles was a thing still when I was a kid. We don't want it back. &gt;broke lefties

Lol. Have you been to CA?

Yeah, in my neighborhood it's all tattooed middle age dads in skinny black jeans picking kids up from school in their Audis or Teslas. Yep, lived here my entire life. This is the only topic I really can't speak freely about on reddit without feeling witch hunted. But whatever, I don't care, vaccines are good but everyone is so crazy about getting every single little vaccine that does nothing for you. I'm all for vaccines that protect you from diseases that don't have a cure yet, but should I have to get every seasonal flu shot? No, because they don't do anything. It changes every year and any healthy person's immune system can fight the flu. I only have the necessary shots for hepatitis and tetanus etc. because anything more than the those isn't keeping society any safer. If I'm sick with the flu, I'll stay home. There! Problem solved. I have gotten sick more times from people who have gotten shots than me giving them a cold. So I'm not going to waste my time with seasonal flu shots. Hepatitis, whooping cough, shingles? You bet your ass I'll get those. &gt; If I'm sick with the flu, I'll stay home

It would be nice if everybody could do this.  You have never been poor, have you? Vaccines and flu shots aren't just for the individual getting them. They are also to help those who are at risk: babies, the elderly and the immuno-compromised. When you get a flu shot, you're helping to prevent a severe flu season that may be deadly for those in the community who are at risk.  He stays home when he has the flu. I'm sorry that the collective health of the people around you is apparently worth less than the annoyance of having to get *every little vaccine*. The simpler solution would be to charge an extra tax on the parents who dont get their children vaccinated, to compensate for the strain it puts on the health system.

A lot of anti-vaxxers will shut up if it costs them several thousand dollars per year. Does it cost money to be vaccinated? Why don't we make it free if it's not? I am libertarian so I don't agree with forcing me to do anything, (I am smart enough to vaccinate my own kids) but if it had to be done, those taxes you mention, in addition to others, should go towards paying for the vaccs to make it easier.  http://www.thedailybeast.com/articles/2014/03/27/thank-you-croatia-all-hail-mandatory-vaccinations.html Who is this "California Bill"? [Who is this "California Bill"?](http://i.imgur.com/gWngBjI.gif) I think he's friends with that 4chan guy.. [](/flutterdeathglare)People who choose to not vaccinate their children should have them taken away, it is neglecting their needs and putting them and others in danger. Yes. Let's keep giving the state more powers because we're scared of death. The state doesn't mandate 100% vaccination.  Get your un-vaccinated kids out of public and private schools and keep the stupidity to yourself. I never said they should be allowed to attend school. I was implying that the government should not have the power to force citizens to undergo any medical procedures against their will. u/fullmoon was implying that the state should be allowed to seize your children over this. I'll be the devils advocate and say this is a slippery slope. I'm 100% for immunization but before you know it the public will be dictating what you feed your kids, how you dress them, religion, culture, etc... 

Edit: Didn't realize that it only applies to public schools which is fine.  So because something bad might happen, we should do nothing? You are aware that the slippery slope is a logical *fallacy* and not an actual sound, rational argument, *correct*? Except we are already falling down the slopes.  Schools have already started taking it further by dictating clothing, diet, even cleanliness, all in the name of "its a requirement to attend school."  If you don't have kids in one of these districts, you probably wouldn't know about it.  Schools will call CPS on you for refusing to do any of these in my kids school district.  I think part of the problem is people do not seem to realize just how far down this path we've traveled.  This isn't a slippery slope, its a landslide and its already moving.  Government incompetence, children wearing uniforms or having any sort of clothing standard? Gasp, the horror, oh dear, I can see the stormtroopers goosestepping down the street already, oh please save me, oh no, oh geez, why didn't I listen to you? Oh why didn't I listen to you, chicken little? HUGE difference between requiring children to wear acceptable clothing, and determining what they wear.  

You may not agree, but that doesn't mean you have to act like a fucking dickbag.  You realize that the law proposed in CA would make it essentially like every other state in the US and how they've been for a very long time right? This isn't something new that  CA is proposing to do, it's looking to fix something that is broken with their current system. 

Also this law only effects your child if you *choose* to enroll them in the public school system. It's not a law that would tell everyone that they need to vaccinate their children or they will get fined or go to jail, it only says that you must do it if you want to send them to public school full of other children. Public schools obviously have other conditions to attendance including dress codes, food requirements, etc...

If these conditions, including or excluding vaccinations are against your personal beliefs than certainly home schooling, or private schooling are other options to consider. That is assuming you could find or start a private school that aligned with your beliefs better than the public option.  They already are, I have received letters home from school about choice of snack, bag lunches not being healthy enough or too high fat content (my kids are very physically active and need the extra) as for dressing if your kid god forbid plays in the dirt you are judged as a bad parent for them not being squeaky clean 24/7. Cleanliness is actually one of the criteria CPS will have (regardless of the situation) for ability of good parenting. On religion  It is so obvious when you look around you are not free to worship how you choose or not worship.  Sadly all of this has become our culture.  Everything is regulated, Everything. There is a law for every scenario.  The people are walking on eggshells and it will only get worse. This makes me nervous. Of course I want vaccinations to be a thing but I can't shake the feeling that this is  the start of a very bad path...

"The road to hell is paved with good intention"

You think that RIGHT NOW such decisions would be rational... But once it can be done there is no guarantees. In fact its a pretty safe bet it won't be. In logic and critical thinking, a [**slippery slope**](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Slippery_slope) is a logical device, but it is usually known under its **fallacious form** *(hint: that's you, buddy)* in which a person asserts that some event must inevitably follow from another without any rational argument or demonstrable mechanism for the inevitability of the event in question.  Agreed, we have never in the history of civilization had legally forced medical treatment and it goes against basic medical ethics. I think education is the answer. This is not being legally forced on anyone. A choice is offered. If you want your child to attend a public school, they must be vaccinated (barring health reasons.)

No one is being *forced* to do anything. That's fine, a lot of people ITT are saying it should be required even if you don't go to public school. Yes, we have had forced medical treatment, for bad reasons and for good reasons as well. 

An example of one of the good reasons was Typhoid Mary, who was a typhoid carrier who did not get sick of the disease. She refused to stop working as a cook and she refused to wash her hands before handling food and after she killed her second or third family she was locked in a psychiatric ward for life. 

 You can be separated from others if you have an infectious disease, obviously, but not forced to undergo treatment. The point was no one did anything largely because it would "violate" her individual freedoms. Nevermind that people died because liberty, the gubmint should butt out! Don't tell me what to do! I think you misunderstand me. I'm totally in favor of separating people with infectious diseases from society. I'm just not in favor of forcing treatment for said diseases. Except I'm pointing out that segregation is not any better, heck it might even be worse considering it leads to the aforementioned insulated hostility. The act of putting someone in a box just makes someone learn to hate the person that put them in that box. They can choose treatment at any time to get out of the box.  So what you're essentially creating is a pointless pretense to essentially force them to choose to vaccinate for themselves why? Because it's better when given the illusion of choice? You're literally putting people in a position where they can either live in a ghetto or choose to get vaccinated. This is like saying "I'm not going to make you take your medicine, but you're going to live in a cardboard box if you say no."

The sheer mental gymnastics it takes to think creating an underclass is more ethical than mandatory vaccination is astounding. Not at all. I said they can be separated from society "if they have an infectious disease" not if they aren't vaccinated. I do believe unvaccinated children can be kept out of public schools however, which is not the equivalent of being put into a ghetto.

Forced medical treatment, even prophylactic treatment, literally goes against the very foundation of western medical ethics (patient autonomy). I'm not willing to sacrifice that. This is only a requirement if you wish your children to attend public school. Nobody is forced to do anything.  Yep.  As soon as we allow the government to force you to be injected with something because they say its for the better good, that precedence cannot be taken back.  And that kind of power is rife for abuse in the future.  But, uh, it's not forcing you to be injected with something. It's requiring you to have your children vaccinated if they're going to attend schools with other children unless they have a medical reason not to.

You can still choose to home school. 

And, unfortunately, there are some realities that require the government to step in, even where it's not ideal. There are states that require vaccinations in a similar way, and, thus far, I don't think there have been any major cases of abuse of this power. Oh shush!

[Grab your heels and enjoy this awesome slippery slope!!!](http://oralfixationshow.com/wp-content/uploads/2014/11/slippery-slope.jpg) Giving power to decide and enforce what someone puts into their own body is a power no one should be willing to put into the hands of a government that is clearly corrupted by money and mega corporations, including big pharma.  There should be no doubt that this power would eventually be abused.  This isn't about vaccines.   What are you yammering about? Under this proposed law who is being forced to put anything into their body? Almost all states in the United States have had laws exactly like CA is proposing for a very long time.  And I oppose all of them.  Sovereignty of body is a personal right no government should have the right to take away.  I vaccinated my kids.  But I would not be happy with someone telling me what to put in them.  I vaccinated them because it was the smart thing to do.  Had I not felt that, I would have fought it.  You wouldn't have had to fight anything, you simply would have had to school them yourself, or find a private school that allowed them to attend unvaccinated. Public schools have all sorts of conditions to attendance.  If its any consolation I'm against school uniforms too.   Even schools that don't require uniforms have dress codes of some sort though. Dress code is not the same as a uniform.  I have a dress code at work, the military has a uniform.  Big difference.  My grandparents left Syria and Lebanon because of the religious crazies. We were raised without it, it was never addressed in anyway. 
    
I totally freaked out when I moved to central TX and was ask if I was saved , my innocent retort was "from what".  
    
I told my grandmother about it and she told me about the deaths in our family due to fanaticism and then said "why would you believe/worship any diety you have to be saved from? Jesus: Let me in!

Person: Why?

Jesus: So I can save you. 

Person: From what?

Jesus: From what I'm going to do to you if you don't let me in.

Christianity is mob protection. Basically. I asked my mother why her family was such dedicated christians and her response really struck me, she said "My family was scared of going to hell."

Not once did she tell me about how her family was interested in the religion, or if they loved Christ, or if they were actually Christians. They were just scared of hell. The first time I heard "god-fearing" as a kid I thought it was a tongue-in-cheek joke, like you fear god as opposed to loving god, which was what I (kinda muslim raised) expected to be the ideal.  Strange as it sounds, being afraid of hell was the number one reason why I was scared of exploring secularity at the age of 25. It's a huge deal! "From what?" Haha! That's awesome. :D God wants to save you from himself! That's why he sacrificed himself to himself! It's all perfectly logical.... /s Its a beautiful sentiment and it clearly displays the absurdity of the question. It also made me chuckle, as you did. &gt; why would you believe/worship any diety you have to be saved from?

That's an amazingly good point. To who? An atheist who doesn't need a good point to convince them of what they already understand?

Theists have good points to retort to that question. Sure, it's just a rationalization, but that's what makes the initial concern not a strong nor very good point. Read something like Desiring God by John Piper and you'll see heavy mental gymnastics at why many think they are blatantly obligated and find it desirable to worship any god (although in the book he just justifies yahweh). But see, you're not being saved from God, you're being saved from man's original sin! Which the omnipotent God allowed to happen and which is only a problem because God says so! In other words, Secular adults act more in accordance with morality than their religious equivalents. I have always been kind of freaked out by people who think you need religion to have good morals since this same logic basically implies that belief in God is the only thing stopping them from killing random people in the streets and inciting chaos. I always wonder what would happen to these people if scientists discovered irrefutable evidence that God doesn't exist and the one thing that is supposedly keeping them "moral" was to dissappear.  Well, you forgot one thing: If scientists had irrefutable proof that God isn't real, the Christians wouldn't care, because the scientists are lying and God is simply testing their faith.  It doesn't even have to be religion. People are wired to double down on deeply held beliefs, even in the face of irrefutable evidence otherwise. See: anti vaxxers.  My brother went to a Catholic school where they taught that Dinosaur fossils were put on Earth by the Devil to confuse us into thinking the Earth is older than it actually is. That's kinda confusing considering the official stance of the Catholic Church is that evolution is real and that's why most Catholic school teach evolution.  They believe in evolution. Source: 13 years of catholic school

Edit: word order The Catholic Church does not really endorse evolution by natural selection.  Randomness is a real part of evolution and evolution does not have goals.  If you could run the clock back millions of years and let it run again, homo sapiens would not necessarily result.  The theory of natural selection does not require or involve a creator.

On the other hand, the Catholic Church states: Concerning biological evolution, the Church does not have an official position on whether various life forms developed over the course of time. However, it says that, if they did develop, then they did so under the impetus and guidance of God, and their ultimate creation must be ascribed to him.

source: http://www.catholic.com/tracts/adam-eve-and-evolution I think it also depends on the parish and area that they're located  When I was a kid,  I went to Catholic school. They were pretty ridiculous,  but they did teach evolution. They also told girls that their role was to be a housewife and mother and pursuing a career was not okay. There was also a teacher who tried to get me to read the Left Behind series because she found me reading large novels well above my grade level (If I recall correctly,  my dad lended me Rainbow Six....or it could have been a doesn't large novel... I was and still am a voracious reader).

Ninja Edit: l'll never forget what happened when they found me reading a book about Buddhism.  Now I have to know what they did when they caught you reading a buddhism book, because as a christian I still have a large number of books from just about every religion. Hell I even have books on wiccans, and other occult items. Okay. Well, I was in 8th grade at the time and was curious about different religions and philosophies. We were never taught about them in school, so i bought a small book about Buddhism,  since i had only heard vague things about it and the idea of live and let live appealed to me greatly. So after lunch,  during recess,  i would usually sit by myself and read.  Some of the usual kids came to bully me and noticed my book.  They told the teacher on me.  My book was then taken.  Then,  a few days later,  one of the priests came in to talk to the class because "someone" was questioning their faith.  To put us at ease,  he went on a long tirade about the greatness of Catholicism.  I don't recall all of the speech,  but the one phrase that stuck out had to be "Buddha's grave? Occupied. Muhammad's have?  Occupied.  Jesus' grave?  Empty." As if that offered some kind of definitive proof. It did backfire, much to their chagrin. When I later pointed out that that was absurd, and some of the class agreed, my dad got a phone call and was asked to tell me not to question things. I'm fortunate that my dad thought they were being ridiculous and I got to go to Public School for the remaining duration of my undergraduate career.  I don't think i ever got my book back.  That is fucking ridiculous, granted "blind faith" never appealed to me anyway. I've pissed off a great deal of people by poking holes in my own religion to show that ignorance is inexcusable. I almost never stop studying my religion, and keeping it under scrutiny. Hell I subscribe to this subreddit for that exact purpose. (of course recent posts are starting to push me to find other outlets for this.) I've honestly had to stop conversation with people because they've brought up something I couldn't answer, and had to get back to them a month later. Most people here would probably think me stupid for doing so, but I'd honestly have to question their sanity if they do. Perhaps it's my personality but I do like to have evidence to support my religion, and I realize that some question just can't be answered. If I ever have children I'd ask them to seriously look look at every religion they can find, and come to their own conclusion. If they decide they are atheist, Buddhist, or some other religion, I will be perfectly okay with that. That doesn't mean I won't question them heavily on it, but having people force you to research what you believe in is never a bad thing. Yeah.  I was never into blind faith either. For me,  it was always important to question everything.  Not to intentionally disrupt things,  but general,  honest curiosity. To follow something without wondering the whys and challenging the way we think isn't right.   That's part of what makes being humans, well,  humans. Im very much a live and let live person, but  that doesn't mean I won't ask questions. You never know what sorts of insights you gain from asking and learning.  :-) Either your brother's school isn't Catholic, or that teacher/school needs to be talked to. See this [wikipedia article](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Catholic_Church_and_evolution) for a general overview on the Catholic Church's view on evolution. The Catholic Church holds no official position on the theory of creation or evolution, **leaving the specifics of either theistic evolution or literal creationism to the individual within certain parameters established by the Church**. According to the Catechism of the Catholic Church, any believer may accept either literal or special creation within the period of an actual six day, twenty-four hour period, or they may accept the belief that the earth evolved over time under the guidance of God. Catholicism holds that God initiated and continued the process of his evolutionary creation, that Adam and Eve were real people (the Church rejects polygenism) and affirms that all humans, whether specially created or evolved, have and have always had specially created souls for each individual.

That's from the article.  Maybe there is some wiggle room in the teachings?  Also I would wonder how long ago they changed their stance on evolution and the teaching of it.  Perhaps OP went to school before these changes in education were instituted. However, if science came up with proof god existed (say Jesus DNA). The church would be all over the science. This reminds me of a quote from Penn Jilette - "The question I get asked by religious people all the time is, without God, whats to stop me from raping all I want? And my answer is: I do rape all I want. And the amount I want is zero. And I do murder all I want, and the amount I want is zero. The fact that these people think that if they didnt have this person watching over them that they would go on killing, raping ram[pages is the most self-damning thing I can imagine." well not only that, but religion gives you a "get out of morality free card", because it isnt you.. that wants these things, its god.

so its ok to kill an abortion doctor.. "sure murder is NORMALLY wrong, but GOD wants this dude dead. I'm not a monster.. I'm an agent of god."


If you look back during the run up to the iraqi war.. polls show the religious far more in favor..because it fits into their little fairy tales. The war was immoral and illegal, and we damn well knew he didnt have WMDs. There is a reason why NATO didnt show.. and instead we had the 'coalition of the paid off'.. er 'coalition of small bribed african nations and poland'.. er coalition of the willing.

and the religious were ok with that.. cause god wanted to start the end times or something.

Atheists dont have this "get out of morals card".. "I'm a dick to gays cause.. er.. no god told me to be? er um.. I guess i am just a dick". We are left with nothing but self reflection. Because we cant say 'gods fault' and move on.


**religion rather than being this moral compass, actually tends to be a way out of morals.**

the whole dont kill people and dont steal and shit, is kinda born into us as "wrong" by default, simply due to mirror neurons.We  dont want the same things to happen to us. I had a friend say if he can change the world in one way he would make everyone Christian so that the world would all have morals. That started a heated argument. I love how they play the 'modest' act, like, "I am but a sheep of the lord, he is perfect while I am dirt" and then go "I am christian, everyone that is so is a perfect paragon of society, and god made the entire universe for us, because we deserve it".

If that's not arrogance, I dont know what is. humiligance  What brand of christian? Catholic, protestant, eastern orthodox, oriental orthodox, or anglican? And what branch of the above?

Ahh fuck it, Presbyterian it is - is everyone perfectly happy and moral with Presbyterianism?  They also choose not to be gay, by choosing not to suck that guys dick. The desire's there, they just choose not to act on it &gt; I have always been kind of freaked out by people who think you need religion to have good morals since this same logic basically implies that belief in God is the only thing stopping them from killing random people in the streets and inciting chaos.

They don't just imply this, sometimes they proudly declare that the only reason they're not currently on a killing spree is because they're afraid their imaginary friend will hurt them What if they're right? What if the religious people who think religion only comes from God literally have no moral compass of their own and actually would go on a raping and killing spree if religion went away? What if religion is serving the purpose of making would-be psychopaths contributing members of society? What would that say about a future without religion? Gihhh Gahh giii , vocal sounds, you done fucked up my brain for a good hour. Saying that you need religion to give you good morals is straight up admitting that you have zero moral compass, so in order to sleep at night and be comfortable with yourself, you have to follow one that someone else wrote down for you.

"I would be a murderer if this book did not tell me that was a bad thing to do" -PersonYouShouldStayAwayFrom I recently saw a facebook post that was announcing gay marraige being legalized in some state, Florida i think, and amount of hate coming from religious people was unreal. The kind of morality that actually makes the world a better place, not the Christian idea of morality that is just a way to punish people they don't like. You just don't see why stoning someone for picking up sticks is beneficial to human society because you don't have absolute morals! /s Don't forget divine command theory. If god says its moral, it has to be, even if it seems immoral to our puny human brains. And it's super weird how God's will seems to change in accordance with the desires and affairs of those in power or with influence within the the various religions.

That God... What a pushover. Yeah I love that in the last 10 years we have FINALLY got the correct interpretation of the bible on gay rights and it turns out it is OK to be gay after all.  We were just reading the book wrong the past 2000 years.  Same with slavery, mixed race marriage, divorce and a host of other issues that the bible slowly changes to accommodate new morals.
 But only the nonsexual type of gay. Gay sex is still bad. Give it another generation and 90% of all Christians will be completely ok with gay marriage.  It is 100% culture.  The bible will say whatever they think it should say.  My cousin is still foaming at the mouth sure that gays are going to hell and the bible is clear on the topic.  That will NOT be what is taught in churches in 30 years though.
 I like bringing up shrimp and pork when they say that.

"That gumbo you are eating is a bigger sin than sodomy"

Edit: bad grammar is a sin. God, I love gumbo. &gt;then sodomy

Suddenly sodomy? Yes please! Bible was pretty clear on slavery too. Eh. Yes, slaves should obey their masters.  Very clear. What always bugged me most was the claim that apparently being gay is instant hell compared to literally any other sin.  You sound suspiciously sarcastic. That's a stonin'. &gt;If god says its moral, it has to be, even if it seems immoral to our puny human brains.

Yep, according to this theology, if God sent 8-foot-tall demons to rape every infant on Earth to death, it would be a perfectly good deed, simply because God commanded it. I can't imagine the mental gymnastics it takes to justify that stance to one's self. All that it requires is defining "good" as "Whatever God wants" instead of the more common usages like "Whatever causes the most happiness overall" or "Whatever causes the least harm". No mental acrobatics required!

Just, you know, suborning language to support a theology that, if true, would state that God's the most horrifying monster in all of literature while simultaneously being the source of all that is good. Just that one tiny thing. Hardly worth mentioning, really. /s That's called having a good publicist. The devil was the good guy and God was the bad guy, God just had a better campaign party. &gt;It's all a part of God's plan!! It's even more stunning when you meet in real life a perfectly normal person, and then this topic arises, followed by the innocent but loaded question: "but how can you be moral without following the Bible?"

It's like, wait, what did that just imply?? I always liked Penn Jillette's quote on the subject:

"The question I get asked by religious people all the time is, without God, whats to stop me from raping all I want? And my answer is: I do rape all I want. And the amount I want is zero. And I do murder all I want, and the amount I want is zero. The fact that these people think that if they didnt have this person watching over them that they would go on killing, raping rampages is the most self-damning thing I can imagine. I don't want to do that. Right now, without any god, I don't want to jump across this table and strangle you. I have no desire to strangle you. I have no desire to flip you over and rape you." CELEBRITY ATHEIST's shocking admission: i rape all i want Also makes it clear why we are such a threat to traditional values fanatics. Yeah, when the politicians were talking about "small town values" I kept thinking "like racism?"  I grew up in a small town and could have given them examples. But but but, what about what this religious person on TV says?  A.  He's religious  B.  He's on TV  Clearly a double whammy of "how could it possibly be wrong?".

http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=az0BJRQ1cqM

Facts contradict a religious person's unsubstantiated "i am better than you because jesus" rhetoric?  NOOOOO!  /s Except as a religious fundamentalist my definition of "morality" includes things that other people are doing in their private lives that has no bearing on my life whatsoever. Ancient doctrines, no longer relevant to modern society, written in a book and held as Devine law make convenient excuses.

You could probably find justification to hate just about anybody in those kids of books; after all they were written and compiled by people who were insanely wealthy and needed resins to wage war and impress all kinds of people, to maintain their way of life. Seriously, can't have a pitched battle otherwise. Seriously though Tolerance tars the road to a better world. It really sets a fire underneath everyone and gets them screaming for change.  It's interesting that this article assumes religion as the "default norm" when comparing children from religious and secular households. Here's how the article would read if that were reversed:

"Studies have found that religous teenagers are far more likely to care what the 'cool kids' think, and express a need to fit in with them, than their secular peers. When these teens mature into 'god-fearing' adults, they exhibit more racism than their secular counterparts, according to a 2010 Duke University study. Many psychological studies show that religious grownups tend to be more vengeful, more nationalistic, more militaristic, more authoritarian and less tolerant, on average, than secular adults.... Religious adults are less likely to understand and accept the science concerning global warming, and to support women's equality and gay rights. One telling fact from the criminology field: Believers were almost the entirety of our prison population as of the late 1990s, comprising more than 99.5% of those behind bars, according to Federal Bureau of Prisons statistics. This echoes what the criminology field has documented for more than a century -- those who identify as religious engage in far more crimes." Nice!!! I like the way you think. Comparor vs. comparee I have a real problem with people citing the "Federal Bureau of Prisons statistic."  Don't get me wrong, I'm not trying to undercut you, but I'll challenge you to try and find any truth behind those numbers. 

There was a day when I decided to follow up on the statistic, but I got caught in this endless loop of people citing each other. About the only finality I got was from some self published page, nothing official. 

Try searching for any studies on religiosity in prisons on the FBP site. You won't find anything, and you don't have to take my word for it. In fact, I'd rather you didn't take my word for it. I think I found the original source [here](http://www.holysmoke.org/icr-pri.htm). This is apparently private correspondence from 1997 between a named research analyst working for the BoP, and an atheist site op (IIRC nobody called themselves "bloggers" back then). [This page](http://www.adherents.com/misc/adh_prison.html), which takes a contrary view, nonetheless says that the BoP confirmed the statistics. The main point of contention seems to be that only 0.209% of federal prisoners who responded when asked about their religion answered that they were atheists, but around 118 times as many did not respond. Apologist sites invariably categorize all of those as atheists.

(Side note: I also found that the web was really, really ugly around the turn of the century.) It's easy to accept gays, blacks, women, and anyone else different than ourselves when you don't believe the most powerful entity in the universe hates them/created you to be superior than them.  funny how their gods always seem to hate the same things/people as they do  But that's what I'm getting at. This hate is learned behavior. They didn't naturally hate gays (just for a popular example) then decide their god hates gays too. They started hating them due to being told their entire lives that homosexuality is a sin. Since the atheist doesn't have to deal with that bullshit it's pretty simple to view gays as what they are, just other people trying to make it in the world.  Egg and Chicken.

Who made who?

In the beginning, Man created a god to hate what they hate. You're both partly right here.  Man creates a god who hates what he hates.  Then teaches those who don't already hate what he hates to hate what he hates. yo dawg heard u like h8 I'm confused.

Chickens hate gays? Source?

 Source: Chik-fil-a Well played. You win this time! *portrait explodes* Yeah you'd think they'd get along, cocks and all that. 

This is a joke, I repeat, this is a joke.  people didn't invent gods to justify their hate, but to explain natural phenomenon for which they had no explanation. The gods eventually evolved to encompass areas of philosophy and morality as well.  I think it comes down to the fact that if you imagine a deity, of course it's gonna be like you.  The egg was there first.  Dinosaurs were around before chickens! I don't think "hate" is learned. It's just who we are - an atavistic impulse to oppose the different or other. [Babies have racial bias](http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/science/science-news/10770563/Babies-show-racial-bias-study-finds.html), as an example. 

*Learning* tolerance, *learning* to respect people who are different, is the key - and secular society is all about that in the West. Where-as religion is religion, and takes ordinate pride in not changing with time.  Or have people been changing god to their image instead of vice versa?

I like your Christ, I do not like your Christians. Your Christians are so unlike your Christ. - Ghandi

One of my favorite quotes Huh, it's as if this entity actually was manmade or something... And just an excuse for humans to get what they want... Who would have thought that would be the case.... They are drilled into believing the one God delisuon and that other God's are different.  Differences are bad and those people over there are different to me, they must be bad.

Do monotheistic religions have a more racist views v's the multideity religions? Let's just say it.  Less tribalism.  I find it extremely plausible that this is a case of inverted causality: people who are less authoritarian and more tolerant tend more towards abandoning intolerant, authoritarian institutions.  Thus we see more highly-principled atheists today precisely because it's a principled choice for so many.

Thus, don't be too quick to infer from this result that widespread secularism would automatically lead to a more tolerant, less authoritarian world.    It might just mean that, if secularism were the norm, all the intolerant authoritarians who currently find outlet and validation in religion would find it somewhere else.

There's a big difference between "I stopped being religious because I believe that's a moral good" and "I am morally good because I stopped being religious."  The latter is exactly the sort of hubris that leads religious people to presume their own virtue even as they demonstrate none in practice, and as soon as their secular equivalent starts appearing in large numbers (no doubt they already do in smaller numbers), you won't be able to produce this sort of result anymore. Except that countries that have wide spread secular populations such as NZ where I live, are more peaceful and more tolerant. Visiting the U.S., especially some of the more isolated States is shocking to me for just how backward and hateful people can be. Well taken, but I'm not sure it necessarily invalidates the point.  It still could be the case that more tolerant people abandon religion more readily, but other social forces had resulted in the tolerance.  I am normally *extremely* wary of the "relatively small and homogenous population" argument because as typically applied it sounds a lot to me like coded racism, but on the other hand I do live in a country where a lot of people feel the need to encode their racism, which might in this context be salient. How homogenous is New Zealand, though? I don't know a lot about it, but I knew somebody who was a white New Zealander and was married to a Maori man. They're kids were mixed, obviously, and I went to the family's travelling wedding reception here in the states. I got the general feeling everybody got along, but I don't know much about how it is in New Zealand. How much of the population is Maori? Are they treated differently than the white New Zealanders? Is there racism towards other groups in New Zealand?I just looked it up. 74% European, 14.9% Maori, 11.8% Asian, 7.4% Pacific Peoples, 1.2% Middle Eastern, Latin American and African and 1.7% other.So that at least is kinda comparable to the U.S. in terms of how homogeneous, but they are obviously a way smaller population. But that still leaves my other question as to the over all culture, and hopefully New Zealanders can answer that. New Zealand still has racism.  I don't know how it compares.  The crime rate of Maori and Pacific Island people is also significantly higher.

The [US crime rate is about three and a half times higher than New Zealand](http://www.justice.govt.nz/publications/publications-archived/2002/international-comparisons-of-recorded-violent-crime-rates-for-2000/new-zealand-compared-to-usa-violent-crime). The Maori and Pacific people also tend to be the most religious, particularly the Bible thumping crowd in South Auckland. I think you hit gold with that one. Religion is a by product of culture, and it takes many shapes in different places. Often people will quote their religion as where their actions come from but those beliefs are just from their culture rather than what is the religion itself.

 I agree was scrolling down to see if someone made this point  I agree.  Plenty of historical instances of atheists being quite vengeful, militaristic, and authoritarian...e.g., the French revolution, or the various Communist revolutions.

Simply disbelieving in a supernatural power doesn't invalidate basic human nature, and persecuting out groups is a well-worn human tendency.  If atheism became the majority "belief", then I would expect many of the same types of people who persecute atheists or people of other religions to just jump on the atheist bandwagon and suddenly start persecuting the religious.  If you observe closely, you can even see the tendency here on this sub. 

Not believing in god or divine creation or the supernatural doesn't make you a better person than someone who believes.  An atheist bully is no better than a Catholic one. Just because people can do shitty things without religion does NOT mean that religion never causes people to do shitty things.

Would the world be perfect without religion? No. Would it be infinitely better? Oh hell yes. &gt;  Plenty of historical instances of atheists being quite vengeful, militaristic, and authoritarian...e.g., the French revolution, or the various Communist revolutions.

Whoa, were they being vengeful in the name of atheism, or otherwise using atheism as the reason?

It's very hard to do something in the name of a lack of something. What do you guys think religious people think when they read these studies? I mean, all of us are like "duh", but i guess things are easier to dismiss when you're used to convincing yourself of supernatural occurrences.  "More Godless lib'rul ivory-tower egghead propaganda.  I know it's not true because I read the Bible." You forgot "elitist" and "intellectual."

It should really scare everyone that conservatives use "intellectual" as a derogatory term. There is literally a bunch of verses in the Bible explaining how philosophy and sciences are a bad thing for your faith and every christian should refrain from those evil things. Those verses made me atheist. Source? Maybe Colossians 2:8? (http://biblehub.com/colossians/2-8.htm)

Edit: 1 Timothy 6:20 might be something as well (http://biblehub.com/1_timothy/6-20.htm) Having grown up in a pretty conservative family, I have to agree with this. How many of them actually read the Bible though, and how many just have it read for them? With my family members, I think it was more or less the latter of your statement.   The best lesson you can learn from that is **always find out for yourself**.

It's the reason so many like myself are involved in OSS (open source software) development (the fundamenal foundation of our modern internet aka [LAMP](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/LAMP_%28software_bundle%29), TCP/IP, etc). Information wants to be free because those working on the fundamental technologies enabling information transfer want you to have access to it.

[We are legion](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Anonymous_%28group%29), and we give you the gift of knowledge of [good](http://www.ted.com/talks/clay_shirky_how_the_internet_will_one_day_transform_government?language=en) and [evil](https://www.gnu.org/philosophy/right-to-read.html). What you do with it is up to you. But we didn't do all that work for you to [take my word for it](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=l9nFs2PeWw0).


Even if it meant having my [liver pecked out for eternity](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Prometheus) I would still make that sacrifice. In-group. Religion is *only* in-group. By training children and treating in-group as a virtue, we create "fundamentalists," "extremists," and Right Wingers. These are people who always focus on the oversimplified and illogical "evil" and "sin" of others. They demonize liberals, science, atheism, other religions, terrorists, etc., then they worship their religion, war against "evil," patriotism, and the idiotic idea that "free will" can surmount all environmental factors.

By making claims against *them*, however much logic and science it may be based on, we only demonize ourselves and our tactics. They do not respect logic, only in-group. Thing is these folks never even read the bible.  They had their pastor read them the bible.

The only folks I know who actually read the bible are now atheists, or have zero reading comprehension. As a fairly recent ex-Evangelical Christian...

I remember being taught that highly moral, non-Christians are merely worshipping their own morality. (Selfishly trying to save themselves by doing good deeds)

Sounds really silly now that I've written it out.. A lot of it does. I was born and raised Christian, and living outside of that religion has been one of the most surreal experiences of my life. The more you look at how backwards it all is, the more liberated you feel. I've been out since 2002 and I can't believe some of the things I used to think.  It all seems so obviously made up and dumb now but I sure did believe it was the one source of truth when I was younger.
 "See? Them godless atheists don't practice the vengeance, patriotism, support for the troops, respect for authority, and recognition of sinners than good God-fearin' 'muricans do!" My dad has neighbors who have Fox News burned into their TV screen. Whenever he encounters them, he loves to bring up his godlessness and godless veteran son. It kind of takes the wind out of their patriotic/yellow ribbon sails. And they scream, "There are no atheists in foxholes!!1" with a smug conviction that it therefore proves God's existence rather than a flaw with human reasoning in times of duress.

 I have to look for it, but I saw a youtube video of these Army guys taking fire somewhere in Iraq (urban area with buildings that appeared to be at least 4 levels). They were taking cover in a building and returning fire. I could only count maybe 5 guys (likely more spread out). You could hear them firing and communicating so that they had situational awareness. It was intense and they were effective in such a situation. The thing that stood out and was heard above everything else was one guy screaming "oh my god, we're going to die. Save me jesus!" He kept yelling some variation of that until someone told him to shut the fuck up.  

The other one about how soldiers would be uncomfortable with gays in the foxhole, nevermind atheists. I often wonder how many foxholes on the front lines soldiers are encountering these days? I'm fairly the certain the number is low to none. Not to mention that a gay soldier is going to be a bit preoccupied with fighting the enemy than be aroused by a guy that he most likely wouldn't find attractive to begin with. The situation for this argument is absurd and the mind blowing ignorance about homosexuals only serves to prove these hateful people should not have a say.  

Then there was clowns in Afghanistan working with my team who kept getting out of their shift by saying their particular religious service was only offered during their shift. I told them they can't attend because the mission is first. The look on their faces were priceless because they were using religion as a means to get out of work. I said, ask the chaplain to see if he can accommodate outside your shift. I even offered to speak the chaplain on their behalf, but they quickly declined my offer. It only shows that the perception of the noble, christian military member is anything but noble.  And with the conviction that it's actually true, as if they've actually looked this up or asked anyone. I've met quite a few atheist veterans volunteering in various ways to help our troops coming home. This is anecdotal but PTSD makes people atheist pretty quickly.

I couldn't stop my government from sending my peers to war. *I was called the unpatriotic one.* Yet the VA run by conservatives needs people like me to help pick up the pieces because they can't or wont.

Support our troops! [MDMA](http://www.mdmaptsd.org/), financial support and, compassionate care for all returning veterans!

It's easy to support war, it's hard to support soldiers. Yup. Isn't funny that in times of duress, Hindus pray to their own Gods, Muslims to their own, and so on between various incompatible faiths?

http://boingboing.net/2014/12/31/tom-the-dancing-bug-oregon-wo.html My MIL is a weird one. She has Fox News almost permanently on, watches all of those super republican/convservative talkshows, has a huge thing for Glen Beck... but is only mildly religious, isn't (at least outwardly) racist, and has zero issue with gay people. 

She has also worked as a RN for fifteen years and doesn't really believe the medical system is broken, despite the fact that she has had Hepatitis C since she was a little girl and has issues with her medications being covered or receiving trial treatments. 

We argue frequently about politics because she takes Fox News as gospel. Half the time, I'm not sure if she actually believes the shit she says or if she's just parroting the people she has crushes on. As far as I can see, this has only been x-posted to 1 religious subreddit (and several non or ex religious ones)

http://www.np.reddit.com/r/Catholicism/comments/2t6ahs/oped_on_secular_parenting_thoughts/

And they don't seem to fully accept it.  I mean im religous and i think these things are hard to quantify in a study. But if i were to assume its perfectly accurate i can see how it is manifested, in my experience racism varies a lot independently of religous/atheist views, hating homosexuals i can definitely see more of a religous thing, but i know at least myself and my church are not included in this because it is simply wrong. (just because you asked)  Thanks, it takes a lot to respond on this sub being religious and your perspective is a great learning tool Thanks for not being condescending.  This study is possessed by demons you heathen In this case, all it does is prove their point. Lots of them are nationalistic, militaristic, authoritarian, vengeful and interolerant. To them, those are good values to have. trick question, they don't read, the red-faced dude holdin' tha bible and yellin' tells 'em all they need to know... I am religious. I think this shows a correlation, but not a causation, which is an important distinction.  True, actual causation can't be demonstrated. But it isn't simply a trivial correlation...progressives will obviously take progressive positions like being irreligious/atheistic/in favor of secularism. Also, being an atheist in America is a sticky thing now. If you're an atheist, you are probably used to feeling a bit outcasted, defending yourself when constantly challenged, and persecuted. I'm sure these other things impact a person's personality and the way they treat others. I'd be interested to see what the correlation would be if the situations were flipped: atheists as the majority and religious in the minority. Depends where you live. As a 24 year old boston area person I can't think of a single one of my friends or family who believe in god There are countries where the majority is atheistic.  Those traits are common there as well.  It's mentioned in the article. Yes, but that's not part of the study, and it's an even more general correlation. Even if not establishing causation, correlation by itself is enough to refute the common claim that morality depends on religion. It refutes the claim that you need to be religious to be a moral person, absolutely.  Which is the only claim it needs to address. If you want to say a God is necessary for morals to exist, you would definitely have your work ahead of you to prove that claim.  And yet, somehow, WE are the ones who lack morals because we lack god.

Funny how that works. Don't you know? Morality has nothing to do with how you treat other people. It's based entirely on whether you believe in the right god. Granted, the study was done by a university who is trying to spread that evil thing called "knowledge". Don't eat from the forbidden fruit, look away!!  &gt; Don't eat from the forbidden fruit, look away!! 

Except the damage is done, that contract is void now. Even according to their own faith there is no going back to before the original sin (until the second coming that is). Going full retard now would be jumping the gun. I try not to bring up articles about religion and atheism around my spiritual wife. But now we have a baby boy, and we have to decide how to raise him, but she took all the stress of that off my mine when she showed me this article that she saw on Facebook without me having to tell her about it. I was really thankful that she saw it.  And godless adults tend to be more positive. When looking at humans in the cosmic perspective, each one of us is precious, you won't find another in billions of galaxies. Religious people look at themselves as unworthy souls, having to obey a master, etc, some really awful beliefs to live your life by. This is my surprised face. I am Jack's complete lack of surprise. ._. It's what happens when you don't model your life after a vengeful, nationalistic, militaristic, authoritarian, and intolerant God. I was raised godless. My parents appropriately told us we could choose when older, etc. we never went to church or prayed or none of that. I've happily remained godless for all of my wonderfully enlightened life. But my sister.... Holy cow. She was appropriately godless until her husband cheated on her. Instead of growing a pair and moving on with her life, she stayed with the guy and became way way way religious. Like "born again" crazy religious. Quit her teaching job in public schools and now teaches in the church. Busy 3 nights a week with church. Busy all weekend with church. Oh-- and she got pregnant real quick to trap the guy. So... Religion for her is filling the void. No different than turning to alcohol or drugs really, rather than facing her problems and fixing them. The guy is loving it. He has so much more free time with his whores.  That's very sad, seeing your sister throw away her life like this. Yup. I tried all I could to boost her self love and self confidence. She decided to drink the kool-aid instead. Wish I still had a sister.  "Secular grownups tend to be less vengeful, less nationalistic, less militaristic, less authoritarian and more tolerant, on average, than religious adults."

And now you know why corporations and the government they run support/endorse/promote religion.


 "Religion is what keeps the poor from murdering the rich."
Napoleon Bonaparte Most religions are religions of hate (or at the very least intolerance),  in one way or another. 

*edited to say "most"  instead of all* "[Imagine](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DVg2EJvvlF8)" that. Obvious study is obvious. :P

People that build their moral system on human well being, behave better towards other humans... Who would have thought? Keep in mind Christianity was always supposed to be a catch basin for all the low-hanging fruit. This all reminds me a lot of my ex. She was Italian and Christian (I didn't find out really until a few months in about the latter), and I'm a white mutt. We had a mutual friend who was black, whom her parents were skeptical on when she introduced them at one point despite him being a chill and intelligent guy who works as a paramedic. On top of that, when she told her parents about seeing me, the first thing they asked was my religious views. When she said I wasn't Christian, her mum started crying. Never mind the fact that I was also a paramedic, or if she was happy, or if I had ever killed a man; that's straight what they went to, and I was judged before they had ever even met me. Ridiculous. And yet I'm perceived to be the horrible person because of my views.. That only makes sense. One of the core concepts of a religious group is the "in group/out group" mentality. The us versus them if you will. However, I can see this transcend religious bounds and simply be a human thing, because there are people who are secular that are just as guarded when it comes to their lack of belief, or at least association with a religious group. It's a leftover from our days of being a tribal species. If you are not part of "my group" (whatever it may be) then I'm not sure if I can trust you. It's when you can be part of a group, but still trust those outside of it that you have truly conquered bigotry.  I am glad this was posted today. Had a battle with my wife this morning in regards to my lack of spiritualism. Told her its sad that you would sit there and judge, this is one of the reason i am against it. The judgment behind it, yet being who I am, who I choose to be not worrying about others belief as long as they are good people, makes me wrong... She eventually apologies but I did send her this article since we have a toddler. Shit is about to get awkward lol.
 Woah now lads, lets be careful not to say correlation implies causation! I wonder if telling children sex is bad, shun certain ethnicities and religions, and don't even eat or say certain things when they are young and impressionable will make a difference when they're an adult? I hope I live to see the day where science overpowers religion. ...which is exactly why religious people are so alarmed by the increase  in secularism.  Who will defend the purity of the white race against the heathen hordes if no one believes in Gawd? Which is why traditionally, nation-states do not like a-religious people. They are harder to militarize, brainwash and control. Why is it that religious people think without religion you have no morals? I never understood that. Yes, the Jewish/Christian religion is grounded on the rights and psychology of an ethnic/racial/tribal slave-holding Iron Age patriarchal society of God's Chosen People at war with other ethnicities/races/tribes/religions.  So, yeah, that's an integral part of what you learn from it.

Pre-edit: I don't even have to mention Islam, do I? When you realize there is no afterlife, you begin to value everyone's life more. We atheists knew this already...  It's nice to have an article we can shove in people's faces though. /s A shame this isn't common sense. I think that this point sort of misses the mark. I think it is less religion that is causes this, and more the kind of people that turn to religion that display these traits and methods of upbringing. Also, it is often the misinterpretation of the core values and teachings of religion that causes religious people to be racist or unaccepting of different peoples or cultures. This then leads to the conclusion that in the vast majority of cases in which religion is pointed to as the cause of intolerance, it is in fact the choice of the person who is being racist to justify their behaviour with their beliefs. It is not, for the most part, in the teachings of their religion to act in that way towards others. Sure, but the religion makes a good shield and sword for them to use...harder to be like that without the crutch.  I could see this street running both ways - more bigoted people are drawn to/stay in religion, or religion teaches/encourages bigotry. Maybe it's both. Of course this is true. Religion is just another way of tribe-forming/affiliation. All such things (even something relatively shallow like spots fandom), tend to operate on strong differentiation between the in-members and the out-nonmembers. This is unfortunately brought to extreme levels when the tribe affilaion, and consequent tribal attributions/affectations/beliefs, address aspects of core identity. Perhaps an indirect link with lack of education being a strong influence on both of those things 
 can confirm: am mother of two of them :)  Let's act like we're all surprised. But... but... Pol Pot, Hitler, and Stalin!!! No shit. In other words water is wet and the sun is hot  DAE wonder if this is just because they are first generation atheists who actually had to think themselves out of their parents' religious box? In other words, godless adults tend to be everything that oligarchs and their pet governments find useless. Human cattle should be as easy to herd as possible. oh, so THAT's why some states don't allow atheists to hold office---they wouldn't be racist/hateful enough! 

/s &gt;what about Stalin?

Checkmate atheists  The only thing surprising about this is that it isn't the opposite question being asked:

Are children raised to believe that belief without evidence is a virtue turning out ok?  Because the answer is no, and that should be obvious.
 It shouldn't be a surprise to anyone. One of the first things a religion teaches you is that you're better than everybody else because you're a member of that particular brand of religion. They tell you that everybody else is damned except for you because you were bright enough and smart enough to choose brand X as your religion. Hey, HEY goddamnit! You take your uppity facts somewhere else. God, guns, and Jeebus!!!! In other news, verbs carry more action than nouns. water is wet But how do you know who to hate without a divinely inspired "dear leader" to tell you? You mean people are more tolerant when someone isn't telling them how they should live their life? Shocking The title should explicitly say that these findings shed light on American secularism, rather than trying to show a casual relationship across all boards. It may not be so simple as a direct causal relationship, especially when a subject's root culture presents a huge variable that must be accounted for. This lack of extremism is a severe threat to the hateful, violent, militaristic "patriots" who so often soil America's good name.  Finally I have a documented reason to raise my future kids atheist "God can not judge me as hashly as i judge myself." Queue the bitter Facebook arguments about this study in 3 ... 2... 1... We've all known that religions breed hypocrisy, judgmental tendencies and have more to do with peer conformity than with emulating their deity. This makes sense.  In my family, religion has bred a lot of hatred, malice, racism, sexism, snap judgments, and misery.  My older brother left Mormonism after serving a mission, and had never felt happier and more at peace.  I've had a rough go at times, but without religion in the picture, I feel I make wiser decisions and do more good for others.  It's nice to go through life without having to look over your shoulder. That's because all you need to live with others is experience living with others no God need be worshiped. All of the people at my school who very patriotic/militaristic are super religious. I just want to say "duhhh..."

A guy at my school has an older brother who is gay, and does drag shows.  Another guy at my school who goes to church every Sunday, is a nice guy all around, but is pretty 'religious' (I'm not going to specify which one, I'm just giving an example) had a pretty strong opinion.

He said something along the lines of "I don't understand those fucking freaks.  You were made a man, act like one."  Just an example, but I've heard stuff like this several times from people who have VERY 'deep' values. &gt;For secular people, morality is predicated on one simple principle: empathetic reciprocity, widely known as the Golden Rule.

Adding this time my arsenal for my next argument/debate about my atheism.  Saw this on /r/all, and wanted to just say, as a pretty open minded and tolerant religious person, that the amount of judgmental religious people I see upsets me greatly. Wow, shocker!  Big surprise there. In my experience christians are about the most intolerant people there are. Most bothersome: they try to enforce *their* values on everyone else. When they get resistance and blow back, they claim 'a war on christianity' and say their freedom of religion is under attack.

Trust me; this atheist doesn't give a hoot what you believe if you would kindly keep it in your home and your church. It's when you get up in my face and tell me how it's going to be that I get hostile. Or try to get the local school board to disregard actual science and teach my kids *bible stories* instead.

Oh, and stop electing idiots, too. I wonder how much correlation there is between tolerance and majority/minority. Like CLEARLY you can and should be a tolerant person regardless of specific religious beliefs but I've noticed that groups identifying as a "majority" tend to be intolerant of minorities whereas a lot of minority groups experience intolerance and tend to be more tolerant as a result.. No shit. University study for us by us....hhhmmmm. No surprise to anyone. People who need authority in order for life to make sense to them usually are this way because they have a harder time publicly adhering to behavioral norms without it. They dont have as defined of a moral compass as others, thus they cling to religion to offset their own inherent immorality. Sounds very controllable  Some people think the groups they were born into are really important. It's unsurprising to me that the people who think their religious clique also think their racial, geographic, sports, whatever cliques are about too. I think this is less about morality than about people fitting themselves into group. 
 The topic lists all the reasons why institutionalised religions were invented to begin with. Its all about control through fear. If you could reason with religious people, there wouldn't be any religious people. This is very true. Dr. Oz, in my opinion, is problematic in many ways. And she gave a voice to people who misled the public in a way that caused harm.  John Oliver's Last Week Tonight [segment on Dr. Oz](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WA0wKeokWUU) is amazing. I loved every second of that ~16 minute clip.  Beautiful. I'm liking John Oliver more and more with each episode.  Dr. Oz is a joke. Almost every product and anti-aging anti-body fat methodology he brings onto the show is introduced to him by corporate sponsors, and he doesn't do any research into it beyond the validity of the paycheque he receives. I was happy to see Dr. Oz repping ASMR, but when he started touting it as a possible cure for this and that or insomnia, I was annoyed. He was dragging something fun and weird but seriously and scientifically interesting through the magical mud.  Sucks to your Assmar! I got the conch. I got the right to speak! Nobody ask you [piggy](http://bbsimg.ngfiles.com/1/24526000/ngbbs5130c080e3816.jpg). Don't think it could cure insomnia but it definitely helps me get to sleep. &gt; ASMR

What's that. ASMR is a weird thing. It's a sensory feeling, kind of like if I had to explain what it feels like to touch something or what something tastes like. 

So, some people (like me) get a weird feeling when you hear certain soft tapping sounds or if people do things close up with their hands or speak a certain way. It's a feeling in the back of your head that almost feels like a tickling sensation. Its bizarre, and its being researched with MRI machines versus controls in Ithaca. 

As a skeptic, I understand a lot of folks in the skeptical world who claim its made up or its some kind of scam or whatever because its very hard to scientifically demonstrate. I think it's demonstrable when contrasting it with controls, button presses and certain stimuli, but there's a wiki article on it and plenty of youtube videos made just for people who experience it. 

Kind of hard to explain sensations. I mean, if you tried to explain the color red to a blind from birth person who was extra skeptical and not only didn't accept the testimony of people who saw the color, but wasn't convinced by the demonstration that people could solve problems with objects on a table colored red that the blind person couldn't. 

Now just apply that to feeling a weird feeling in the back of your head that was somewhat pleasurable. *shrug*

It's too mundane to fake, I say.  That's a great explanation. I also wanted to address the point that it's  a non sensual/sexual thing. I think some sceptical people think it's some kind of kinky perversion. Some of the videos are vaguely sexual, with busty women pretending to service you, whispering in your ear. Most of the videos don't cut it for me, but there's a bloke that I work with that just has the right voice and he's always shuffling papers. I find that bank tellers counting out money for me will set me off for half an hour!

I've been trying to explain this experience to my friends for years now, and only recently found out it's a definable thing! 

 I've had the same experience.  For my whole life I've been prone to triggers.  Typing seems to near drive my eyes into the back of my head under the right settings.  To find out so many others experience it was just great.  To find they also made videos to intentionally trigger it... even better.  French Whisperer is a great youtuber to relax to.  I've found a few artists who have taken the "look at my breasts for views" approach but that's pretty much all media everywhere.  I find the majority to be about the sounds. For me, it always happens when someone helps me out with a problem. I mean, on a deep one to one personal level. Like they look me in the eye every time I speak to them, and I can see that they are actually giving me 100% of their attention. Or when I was a kid and the teacher would come help me with a problem, but in a personal way. Like those teachers that are just so passionate about what they know, they just exude their knowledge with so much (for lack of a better word...) love. 

Doesn't happen much these days but now that I think about it, damn it is really hard to describe that feeling. I get the tingle in the back of my head, but I also feel it in my chest, like a tingling/tickling sensation down to my very core.

Best feeling in the world. I listened to a segment on This American Life all about it -- I had never heard of it before and it doesn't affect me personally, but I just never understand why people would insist others are just making it up. Like...why would you do that? Literally *just* for the attention?  It's like when people insist that trypophobia is completely made up or when conservatives claim that being gay is just a choice; just because it isn't something that YOU feel doesn't mean that it isn't real.

As for the sexual/non-sexual thing, the TAL episode left me with the impression that for some people it can be sexual (though I get what you're saying, not for all).  They were going through YouTube and people had very specific requests for things like, "young female travel agent booking your vacation in a whisper."  Really interesting stuff. Oh my god, I think this has been happening to me my whole life and I had no idea what it was..

I've always randomly had this tingling sensation that starts in the back of my head and then runs down my spine and gives me a shudder. It doesn't feel bad, but I never had any concept of what triggers it. Assumed it was some kind of glitch in my emotional nervous system, or ghosts touching me.
No one else ever understood when I described it. Holy cow, I think I'm in the same boat. Sometimes I get a weird wave of tickling sensation along my head and down the back of my neck that kind of feels like my hair is standing on end. Talking to certain people would set it off. No one I talked to had any idea what I was talking about when I tried to describe it, though.  Now you can trigger it at will. Careful not to burn out, it can lose effectiveness if you overdo it. 

/r/asmr [Autonomous Sensory Meridian Response](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Autonomous_sensory_meridian_response)  I skimmed over the wiki before I asked, and I still don't understand. 

Can I get an ELI5? Different sounds can make you get a tingling sensation in your head that then goes down your spine, kind of like when a shiver goes down your spine. It can be very relaxing for people who experience it.

Edit: I should also mention that some people can be "triggered" visually as well. Also, even if you don't experience tingles ASMR videos can be very relaxing, kind of like those white noise recordings. Check out /r/ASMR if you're interested in learning more. Those videos are weird.. I feel like women are trying to seduce me by talking about dishwashing gloves.. O.o It's definitely strange from an objective perspective.  There are all types of videos, including gaming play throughs and characters with story lines. It can get real crazy.  They're not for everyone- they creep out lots of people. But there are tons of different kinds to try if you're so inclined. I highly suggest the ones without any talking, or ones with men talking if the ones with women talking are weird for you. For me personally I prefer barely audible whispers like in some of MassageASMR's videos. But depending on my mood I enjoy a wide range of ASMR "artists". Heather Feather is a good one if you like women's voices but don't like the intimate environment of some ASMR videos. Hers are almost like a friend talking to you. GentleWhispering is a very popular one, and I like her videos very much although you might not enjoy much of her content if you don't like the talking an more intimate feel. If you want to get really weird on purpose Ephemeral Rift does some really cool Lovecraftian type videos. WhispersRedASMR (female) and ASMRGains (male) both have lovely accents if you like the sound of accents. And ASMRrequests is working on an ASMR sci-fi series called Departure (which Heather Feather has collaborated on) that looks like it's going to be pretty cool. They always make me feel uncomfortable and irritated. I can just do that to myself. Is that not normal? makes you feel tingly.  like when someone whispers in your ear. Or when I listen to Pearl Jam That is probably frisson

http://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Frisson /r/frisson. not bad of a subreddit. :) Or when I listen to Faith No More. YOOOU WAAANT IT OUT BUT YOOU CANT HAAAAVE IT Smiling with the mouth of the ocean and I waaave to you with the arms of a mountain.... I see you!  Makes my shoulders and neck and huge parts of my body go totally limp and relaxed. But I can't relate to the tingling.  First off, it really depends on the person. Some people don't "get it" physically and it's very confusing and still a new science.

However, basically certain sounds can be very pleasurable to some people's ears. Most ASMR videos are really weird because they're just abusing the sounds repeatedly for the listener to enjoy themselves to. Localized goosebumps. There are everyday sounds like pencil sharpening, bag crinkling, whispering, scrapping, etc that make our ears orgasm when listened to on headphones, or good audio environment. The first few times I didn't get it, and then suddenly some noises triggered something that changed the way I listened to everyday noises. Give it a few chances, and you'll discover it's actually pretty amazing. [Bob Ross](http://youtu.be/8HfA9K7SL5M) is ASMR.

Also, see /r/asmr Autonomous Sensory Meridian Response 

/r/asmr  www.bmj.com/content/349/bmj.g7346 for those who want the primary source, and http://www.washingtonpost.com/news/morning-mix/wp/2014/12/19/half-of-dr-ozs-medical-advice-is-baseless-or-wrong-study-says/ for those who want something more mainstream.  I watched an episode of doctor oz (my grandfather watches it all the time for some reason) where doctor oz told a woman that her "gluten sensitivity" became a corn sensitivity because, and I'm going to try to quote him directly, she "replaced her wheat intake with corn and her body [which was wildly confused by this whole corn business at first] had readjusted and was now treating corn like it had previously treated wheat (by, like, refusing to sit at corn's lunch table and spreading rumors about corn behind its back)". He told a woman that her wheat sensitivity (which is a made up condition not to be confused with Celiac's disease) had become a corn sensitivity because her body knew she was trying to replace one with the other and wasn't having it and that's why the placebo effect of eliminating gluten from her diet had worn off. While wheat/gluten sensitivity is not a real thing, sensitivity to fermented carbohydrates (I believe is what it's called) is very real. As most foods with gluten contain fermented carbs, it gets translated to "glutinization". My mom recently went through this whole thing. I never understood how this guy ever had the time to do any research on anything he's ever brought to his show. He reminds me of the traveling salesmen from days gone by who sold snake oil to the town folk. He reminds you of that because it's what he is. He's a glorified Billy Mays. Now wait just one minute. Billy Mays didn't hurt no one. And he introduced me to OxyClean. You shut your whore mouth.  Sidebar; is "paycheck" and acceptable way to spell it? And if so, is it "check" or "cheque"? "Paycheck" is how it's spelled in the land of the free and the home of the brave. "Cheque" is for the land of bowler hats and big red buses. The New Yorker did a great piece on this last year or the year before. Wish I knew the issue, but it was a good read. He's basically a quack with a voice, and that's rather frightening. And while I'm on this topic, people, please listen to your nurses. We're not doctors (as that public so gleefully points out), but we know some shit and your life is in our hands for more time than it's in doctors' hands.  He's a doctor like Dr. Pepper is a doctor.  

 Several years ago, I was working at GNC and Dr. Oz plugged raspberry ketones on his show.  The store only stocked a few bottles because very few people bought them.  Within the space of a day, we had so many people call or come in to buy them that we had a wait list of nearly thirty people for the next shipment.  For a "magic" product they never heard of prior to Dr. Oz that has no good evidence for its efficacy in humans.  After a few weeks, it went back to nobody buying the stuff.  Crazy. My mom spent a lot of money on raspberry ketones and I made her throw them all away because she has blood pressure and heart medications and they raise norepinephrine which causes high blood pressure and increases heart rate.

Then I taught her how to go to google and type the name of the product and the word "scam" into anything doctor oz tells her to buy or she hears about from friends at work who watch dr. oz before she buys it.   Gotta be careful with that as the scammers will often SEO one of their sites to hit on "&lt;product&gt; scam". The page will usually be some sort of testimony by someone who thought it was a scam but when they tried it, it really worked!^TM^&amp;copy;^&amp;reg; I've seen this a lot with those multi level marketing scams  Garcignia is the thing now. I too work for GNC and people act like he's the second coming of christ  Garcinia Cabogia? My dad is all over it right now. Never heard of him. Sounds like a vitamin supplement. I bet that in some people's minds, his name sounding like an herbal suppliment in itself makes him sound credible and trustworthy. If GNC were smart, they'd do a deal with Dr. Oz to know what he's going to promote in advance so they can stock it that week.
 See me in 260 at 9.  I'm promoting you  To be honest that's a lot of GNCs stuff anyway. Not to mention his show is full of cringe. Especially when he has an audience member with him who has *gone through the health issue* he's talking about and he explains it to them again... As if they aren't fully educated already. Or the awkward silence as he just walks them to the next station... cringe. Isn't Dr. Oz a heart surgeon?  How does that qualify him to promote anti-aging therapies and cures for foot fungus?  He *is* a heart surgeon and I wonder how he has time to perform surgeries with all the things that he does on his show. I'd hate to be a patient of his. "Hey, I'm gonna have the anesthesiologist just keep you awake during surgery so I can tell you about this amazing revolutionary all natural anti aging fruit thing!" Lol. Acacia berries! &gt; I'd hate to be a patient of his. 

IIRC he is/was actually a renowned and respected heart surgeon as well as a professor on the subject.

He just sold out.  Apparently doing heart surgery isn't enough to pay the bills these days. Yes.  Hang on while I "research" some stuff for my show instead of keeping up with research for my surgery practice. The Dr. Oz show has a record of being dishonest on up to 50% of the information they broadcast. Let's not even get started on Dr. Phil.  
But,, but then how do know how that makes us feeaal?! Problematic is a very gracious way of putting it. My girlfriend works at a health food shop and every time there's a new Dr. Oz, she gets streams of people coming in looking for whatever dumb ass cure he's hawking. More often than not it's obese people who just need to eat less and walk more, but no they want the raspberry ketones to lose the weight for them. I totally agree. He's a snake oil peddler and Oprah is a piece of shit. Did you see Neil Patrick Harris hand her a Lego Oscar last night? She should cram it up her rich ass. Oprah 'experts' - the worst sort of experts. She gave a voice to that vapid retard Jenny McArthy, she is responsible for many many cases of preventable diseases [Jenny McCarthy Body Count](http://www.jennymccarthybodycount.com/Jenny_McCarthy_Body_Count/Preventable_Deaths.html) Dr Oz needs a "miracle" counter in the same style. http://www.forbes.com/sites/rosspomeroy/2014/01/10/dr-oz-has-found-16-weight-loss-miracles-so-why-is-there-still-an-obesity-epidemic/ The people who watch Dr. Oz need to realize that the only way they are going to lose weight and be healthy is to change their eating habits and exercise even if it's just a half an hour a day. There is no miracle cure, no magic potion in a bottle that will do it for them. Some people are so gullible. The sole reason they watch and believe the likes of Dr. Oz is that they DON'T WANT TO change their habits. "I'll do anything to get in shape except eat right and exercise." You've gotta help us Doc, we've tried nothing and we're all out of ideas! &gt; "I'll buy anything people say will get me in shape

FTFY This only goes through 2012... &gt; Jenny McCarthy Body Count

[not if you go deeper](http://www.antivaccinebodycount.com/Anti-Vaccine_Body_Count/Home.html)
 I dont know, it only goes to feburary 7, someone might have gotten autism from vaccines in the last 16 days The guy who ran that site got seriously ill himself so he was unable to maintain it unfortunately. Really? Sadly. Holy shit. BY being so opinionated she's the opposite of vapid though. Arianna Huffington is equally guilty. The "Healthy Living" section of that site is a cesspit of pop-science bullshit. The site used to be better, sorta. Then Arianna Huffington sold out to AOL in 2011, which also tanked the quality of the userbase and ruined whatever good reputation the site had. AOL, for fuck's sake. What, she couldn't find a buyer that *wouldn't* proceed to shit on whatever quality the site had? Why doesn't AOL just die? They'll die once old people realize they don't need to pay for an email account Articles on content mills like that are often churned out by people who don't have any real experience or knowledge on the topic being written.

I did some work experience at a newspaper in my teens and was pretty shocked at how common this seemed to be. 

In more than one case they literally just did a Google search and paraphrased the content from the top three page results. You get paid for page views. Lots of people try to get into writing that way, and if you want page views, you need to write shit people will view. So you get sensationalist bullshit articles designed to target people who don't know any better.

It's actually not that different to how people on Reddit formulate their titles to target readers who will upvote content without actually checking anything beyond what is posted. As long as you know your audience you can put out some utter bullshit and expect to get good viewership. It's actually a business model for many websites.

* Set up a website and choose a topic

* Pay freelancers on Fiverr and iWriter to write 10 articles a day on said topic

* Add clickbait headlines and thumbnails

* Get sharing on Facebook and social media

* Generate traffic and ad revenue $$$ Oprah:

&gt;You get misinformation, you get misinformation, you get misinformation ..... 

&gt;EVERYBODY GETS MISINFORMATION!!!! And a school I had hoped one day I would be a part of all that misinformation but now I will never have the chance.  Oprah is the worst. She has been a platform for the crazy ideas of Jenny McCarthy, Dr. Oz, and *The Secret*. 

But she is a talk show host, not a journalist or a scientist. Her interviews are basically a showcase of her favorite things. 

She's just not that smart.  I still have an issue with her personally. There was this one time she was talking with a woman, I think she was an athlete, like an olympic swimmer or something. This athlete was talking about the beauty of the world and Oprah made a god comment, to which the swimmer responded that she was an atheist.

Oprah looked shocked for a sec, then she said something along the lines of "Well, it's okay dear, if you can see the beauty of the world you're a christian to me."

IIRC, athlete woman was sort of put off for however long the rest of the talk was, don't think it was long. "Amusingly," I also remember reading an interview she gave where she talked about a neighbor of hers who once told her, "oh, you're my neighbor, you're not black," meaning he didn't consider her to be what he considered a stereotypical (i.e., criminal) black person. She rightly took offense to that, yet probably wouldn't consider saying, "oh, I don't think of you as an atheist" to be at all hypocritical. the secret sure worked good for her though.  :( This is not surprising. You don't become the most popular daytime host by appealing to reason and logic. I don't know about that. Ellen Degeneres is very popular and she seems reasonable and logical. I'm pretty sure I saw a segment where she had a Medium on her show, using classic cold calling exploitation. Must have been the Long Island Medium. All of these people are charlatans.  The funny ones usually are. Steve Harvey is a comedian but also the biggest dipshit ever birthed. Anti-science, anti-logic; you name it.  He said the *funny* ones. He can be funny if you limit yourself to seeing no more than 5 clips of him.  After that, it's all the same.  That and don't read anything else about him. Moral barometer anyone? A list of 4 things had to be split across 2 pages? Really? Cracked. Hey, in 10 years, you'll be telling the youngsters, "Yeah, I remember the days when a list of 4 things was only spread across two pages. TWO pages, kids. Not like today." I just added Oprah to the list of people who prefer getting their weather forecasts from a groundhog rather than a scientist. The only bullshitter I'm aware of that she called out was James Frey, whose bullshittery had far less profound implications. And that was only to save face. Yep. From the James Frey Wikipedia article:

"In the end, Oprah Winfrey had to defend her own ethical standards of truth on her television program, which was courageous of her".

Joyce Carol Oates said that. Apparently, a lot of people think that Oprah's show is a beacon of truth in our world. Sad.

http://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/James_Frey
(I'd anchor it, but I'm on mobile). The freys are not to be trusted. Not after the red wedding. Who is still in any case actually very good at what he does, unlike the other people in that article. He now runs a [shady book production company that pretty much takes advantage of new authors to churn out commercial young adult fiction.](http://nymag.com/arts/books/features/69474/) Why doesn't a major celebrity science advocate (like Neil DeGrasse Tyson, Bill Nye, Richard Hawkings, Richard Dawkins, James Randi, etc.) go on this show and confront her with this? It's not like they have anything to lose and so much to gain! I'd say the target audience of the show doesn't want true science, maybe? They want to believe in magic fat loss pills.  
It also doesn't make sense for Oprah to invite real scientists who are also good public speakers, because they will easily make her look bad. She wouldn't have these people on her show because she knows what would happen. Would you really want them to waste their time?  Well, speaking for myself, I'd be worried about catching 'the Dumb' from Oprah and her team. Good Girl Oprah, helps get rid of her own retarded fans [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] [deleted] John Oliver has a great segment about Dr Oz. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WA0wKeokWUU &gt; Oprah Screwed The World

France here. I think we're pretty safe from Oprah. In fact, I don't think anyone here who hasn't travelled in the US knows her. Ah, the good ol' "America is the whole World" trope Yeah she's kinda dumb and pits stupid people on her show, but she's only half the issue. People are taking major advice from a daytime talk show host with no scientific credentials. The exception is OZ, we are taught that's doctors are smart and we should listen to him. When he spouts bullshit its 100% on him. &gt; we are taught that's doctors are smart 

But life experience shows that's not always true. Life experience shows that we should think critical of everything that is told and taught to us.
For example: We should think critical of a doctor on a talkshow. Maybe. I may become critical once this doctor because a regular. And in Oprah and OZ's defense his early contributions to her show were solid. Its when you try and get a hour of medical advice on air five days a week with corporate sponsors is when it fell to shit. If a doctor cane on my local new talk show, I would give him the benefit of the doubt. The doctors are not always true. I agree we should think critically of a doctor on talkshow but people (general public) have no education to do that. Usually, people that question doctor's authority in medicine are persons that have no scientific education. By listening to non-scientists, they feel that they can understand medicine and "have their own thing" that doctors know nothing about. They feel like they take back the control of their bodies and their lifes.

Doctors are not perfect but it doesn't mean that alternative medicines are working nor indigo mothers are a thing. Like Ben Goldacre once said: 
&gt;FLAWS IN AIRCRAFT DESIGN DO NOT PROVE THE EXISTENCE OF MAGIC CARPETS Ya but those are people who take in talk shows as a main source of information and what do you expect? Anyways, side note, it was fun to mess with those shows, remember this? http://youtu.be/T1dbqg8j5uQ haha remember this one?

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4x1hsC-YKAA I do think that bumfights is bad for society in general, and Dr. Phil is not as bad but at the end of the day he's in the same business. 

The bald-cap for the interview was hilarious, I would like to see a comedian do an interview with him wearing a bald-cap.

Was this the first time Dr. Phil had seen videos of what his guest actually did? Was he just reading off of cue-cards and didn't write a single word of what he read? As a Brit, TIL about Oprah. Ive known she is / was a talk show host. With so much controversy though, how does / did she stay on TV? 

We've got some idiotic TV hosts and personalities but not on that level.  Ridiculous giveaways (remember a story about one show where every audience member got a new car) and she draws in huge ratings. She's easily one of the most influential woman on the planet.

Edit: Apologies, I meant to put "one of" before the most influential. Obviously she isn't. On the planet? In America only more likely. There are around 5 people know about her in Russia. Possibly in America, I wouldn't say on the planet. I don't know about elsewhere in the world, but if it wasn't really for Family Guy, id never really know who she was. I just asumed she was some obese TV host that was popular in America and that's that. From what ive seen though, there are a lot of outlandish TV personalities in America, especially the News journalists, news stations take an extream aproach to coverage of a story and massivly blow it out of proportion.  United States =/= Planet Earth

 The Oprah show started off ok, but once her personality became a moneymaker, she became the new P.T. Barnum hawking the latest freakshow. She also started the whole "OMG MDMA BURNS HOLES IN YOUR BRAIN!!!"

She was looking at a brain scan of an MDMA user which showed reduced brain activity in certain regions (likely because he just came off an MDMA binge but the brain activity will return to normal in time) but because she's fucking Oprah and not a real doctor/scientist she didn't know what the fuck she was looking at and claimed there was holes in the dude's brain. You still occasionally see the that claim. Soooo stupid. Sorry - *who* was fucking Oprah? While Oprah isn't without fault here, shouldn't we be laying blame squarely on the throngs of idiots that lap this shit up? 

If someone is screaming the sky is pink, they're certainly a moron. If you stand there in agreement, well welcome to the moron club. Oprah is just a part of an industry that has been selling snake oil bullshit for decades. All those magazines you see in grocery store checkouts is interconnected. all the celeb tabloid bullshit, all the lose weight diet scams, all the Cosmo sex tip weird shit, it's all part of a giant network of crap. These are just a few of the more glaring examples.  Oprah has been a thorn in the side of the skeptical community for a long time.  (I'm a 10-year member of the James Randi forum)
Her uncritical acceptance/promotion of woo and nonsense is very widely documented.... Not just from the pages of a humor magazine.   

And it may be very well to dismiss the fans of these shows as dummies ready to believe anything, but a large segment of the population has very little in the way of critical-thinking background.  If major media figures are presented as authorities, they are inclined to believe them.
The number of Oprah viewers would dwarf visitors to the Quackwatch site, I would wager. #5. Threatened to kill Dave Chappelle. Isn't this bitch also friends with that fool Deepak Chopra? Fuck oprah Nah she's too ugly bro
 [Dave Chappell might think otherwise](http://youtu.be/oyB1PmIQRVM) 
*NSFW

 Guess what got into Oprah. MY SEED SON!!!!!!! And that's what we call authority worship. Think logically. Always try to question things. Do your own research. That Dr. Oz asshole spews out more fowl shit than a truck stop restroom. I want to personally kick him in the throat for his arsenic in apples skit. He made my grandma bawl her eyes out thinking she was killing her grandson by feeding me apples all the time growing up.  Apple *seeds* contain trace amounts of arsenic, which makes them taste of almonds. Almonds also contain trace amounts of arsenic. 

Apples themselves are perfectly fine and unless you chew on apple seeds for a day, they are harmless as well.  I liked Dr. PHil show when it first came out, but now its just another version of maury povich type shit, its trash now lol. I feel like the group of people who look to Oprah for a book recommendation,  look to Doc Oz for medical advice, and who listen to Dr. Phil for psychiatric advice deserve the harm they do to themselves. Much in the same way some people get their legal advice from Judge Judy. It's embarrassing to watch fans of these shows get sold week in and week out, but sometimes the only way to learn is to be burned, when the miracle cure, advice, book, or law doesn't really exist for them.  Yes, she has facilitated a lot of false mindsets. And yes, she was the one who entertained Jenny McCarthy's drivel and yes, she endorsed quackery with Dr. Oz and his rubbish despite his heart surgeon qualifications and Dr. Phil with his brand of TV psychology.

I am going to say it outright. It's not her fault for saying it or introducing others to say these things and make these claims. It is up to the individual to recognize that they shouldn't be building a life and world view based on talk shows.

It's easier to regard Oprah as evil than it is to regard ourselves as gullible, uninformed, stupid, rash, irrational etc.

Who wants change? Everyone.
Who wants to change? No one. [over 9 thousand penises, and they're all raping children.](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7liYfhRgXGk) TIL? I thought this has been widespread knowledge for a long time. If you can make billions peddling bullshit, who would say no. Oprah Woofrey sure didn't. I lost what little respect I had for Oprah after I watched her show such massive disrespect towards atheists in interviews like these: http://youtu.be/7uk1_NSuFvQ Ugly soul.  She also let Tom cruise go off on a rant about psychiatry.   In a sane society, endangering people with that kind of quackery would be a crime. "4 Ways Oprah Screwed The World"

What a stupid title !!!

The huge majority of the world doesn't even know who Oprah is !!!

She may have screwed USA, but the world... lol ! My mom used to fall for the Oprah shit like "a) Does your kid hang out in his room? b) Does your kid use the computer? IF you answered yes to both then your son is without a doubt looking at child pornography."

Over the course of my teenage years my mom accused me of child porn, being depressed, being autistic, being a horse and being a leprechaun hiding a pot of gold. It is not "anti-science". It is just wrong. From the little that I know about her, she does not have anti-science stand, she is just not scientifically trained and has problem identifying trustful sources. &gt;Oprah first met Phil McGraw when his company helped prep her for her trial against Texas beef in 1995, which was filed in response to an episode of her show about mad cow disease. Oprah won, because she's Oprah

I'm pretty sure she won because there's no way of proving that she caused the plunge in beef sales. What are they going to do, ask every American why they stopped buying beef? Even it could be proven, she would still be protected under freedom of speech. Trying to dispel people's belief in celebrities and TV shows can be every bit as difficult as dispelling their belief in a religion, and this is something we should be turning our attention towards because television's power to destroy science is every bit as significant as religion's ability to attack science, if not greater.  For many years people have been arguing TV is the new religion, and if you try having a conversation with anyone who regularly watches the Doctor Show or Dr Oz or any of these TV charlatans you will see the exact same blind unwavering faith you will see in religion.  

And a lot of that blind unwavering is based upon the false assumption that people on TV are criminally liable if they present falsehoods and would go to jail or be held accountable somehow, since that hasn't happened then everything these shows present must be true.  

This is absolutely untrue, you can lie as much as you want on any of these shows and you are not criminally liable.  You can only break the law by knowingly lying by slandering a person or possibly committing a hate crime (I'm a bit iffy on my knowledge of that).  

You can outright lie about facts all you want.  You can even do it on a news channel, Fox does it all the time.  And there is absolutely no criminal liability for doing so.  And as for credible institutions refuting the evidence from these charlatan TV shows, credible institutions refute their evidence all the time, but none of them have their own popular TV shows.  These are the people who say vaccinations work, that global warming is both real and man made, that evolution is real, that gays do not exclusively smoke dope and commit suicide all long to make them unfit parents, but hardly anyone ever points a camera at them.  

Why?

Science simply doesn't get ratings as much as sensationalism does.  When news is being fed as entertainment, truth gets cast aside, and one of those truths is the truth of science.    I always wondered how someone like Jenny McCarthy managed to sway so many people about the MMR-vax.  
I mean, she's attractive and popular, which carries a lot of weight in our society, but she never struck me as someone with a truly massive audience with the ability to sway people away from a really sensitive topic (the health of their kids.)  
Oprah, on the other hand...  She also told everyone to save their money, put it in the bank and don't spend, when the recession hit. Obviously, people need to spend to keep the economy going.. [Oprah vs Atheism](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7uk1_NSuFvQ)

Here is Oprah through the years, butting heads with atheism. The first segment features trail blazing atheists Dan Barker, and his future wife Annie Laurie Gaylor, the future co-presidents of the Freedom From Religion Foundation. The show is from 1984. Mind blowing to see how far this public debate has come. they forgot Deepak Chopra. While people may have issues with Dr. Phil, that was classic ad hominem.  Nothing in this article described how Dr. Phil's advice was bad, only that he was a bad person so Oprah screwed the world by letting him give advice. I saw her tonight on the Oscars. She certainly hasn't bee following her weight loss advice... or maybe she has. Muh guhnetics Here is a word cloud of all of the comments in this thread: http://i.imgur.com/Zw4HTwz.png  
[^source ^code](http://github.com/Winneon/makeswordclouds) ^| [^contact ^developer](http://reddit.com/user/WinneonSword) ^| [^faq](https://github.com/Winneon/makeswordclouds#faq) [deleted] Oprah is an attention-seeking hack She also taught me what a pill party and tossing salad is when I was ten. Unfortunately I've experienced neither :(  It kind of scares me that Cracked, a website that started as a magazine whose main competition was Alfred E. Newman, has writers with more scientific understanding than supposed Doctors. blocked at work. summary of the poison?  She also spouted that crap about MDMA putting holes in your brain which is ridiculous. Any time I try to say she's stupid though people quote her being filthy rich as her obviously being some kind of genius I've always hated Oprah, mostly for this reason. She promotes anti-science bullshit constantly and people just lap it up like she's doing something special.

The worst was when she promoted "The Secret," which is unequivocally one of the most self-centered nonsense I've seen in a while. She's just so full of herself and people believe anything she says. I don't get it because she's such an idiot.  bean coffee is a real thing tho . Here in Greece farmers back in the day made it when casual coffee was considered a luxury .The fact that someone in the U.S. is selling it entrepreneur style is beyond me dude... fuck Oprah id rather not... I'd be okay with a cuddle. I bet she's nice to spoon with. It's freezing cold outside right now. Not interested in going all the way with Oprah tho. I might let her get to 2nd base. I'm no prude.  Even Stedman wouldn't go that far... I wish there was some way she could be held accountable for this. She's basically murdered people indirectly. To be fair in 07 every one was interviewing Jenny and acting like her ideas might be valid.  This is the most over dramatic bullshit I've seen in a while. The title just tops it off too.  Honestly, the type of people hooked on her bullshit would just be buying crazy somewhere else if she wasn't open for business. *Today* you learned. That's good, it means you aren't watching her awful and ignorant television program or reading her propaganda magazine. You know you got a problem when you talk about secret internet pedophile organizations with over 9000 penises. I feel like Oprah should get a little bit of a pass for Dr. Oz because he was a real doctor after all. However, the fact that Dr.Phil didn't even has a license to practice psychiatry and she still had him on her show shows poor judgment. Out of all the celebrities Dr.Phil pisses me off the most. I am a person who has a mental illness and I can tell you that all your problems can't be solved during a one hour show.  to be fair his show does spend a lot money on treatment for his guests after the show I read somewhere that on average they spend about ten thousand dollars He never had a license to practice psychiatry (that would be a medical license). He did, however, have a license to practice psychology. TL;DR. Psychiatrists are physicians (MD or DO), psychologists are PhD or PsyD.  She can't get enough of that Deep Chopra. People like her give a bad name to females like me who actually care about science. And don't even get me started on how hard it is to find a decent atheist guy around here... I don't know why you got down voted. If you are a Georgia peach, you will have a hard time finding an atheist guy though. going off "gamergirl" I'm going to go out on a limb and say her username is a reference to Mario's girlfriend. True perhaps, but I fail to see how this is related to atheism. How many clubs do you see dedicated to informing the public that Unicorns aren't real?

How many clubs do you see dedicated to informing the public that Mermaids aren't real?

Atheism is stupidity at its finest.

It's just as stupid to say "There is definitely no God", as it is to say "There is definitely a God", and therefore this entire community is nothing more than a circlejerk designed to appeal to people who've been harmed by religious institutions. If a large number of people did believe in unicorns and mermaids and were killing people or trying to influence policy based on what these imaginary unicorns and mermaids wanted us to do, I think you'd see many such clubs popping up. I'm sorry, but just because THEY are being stupid doesn't mean acting stupid in return is a solution...

You gotta raise the bar... push the status quo.

We're not going to defeat the problem of religion with the same level of thinking that created it in the first place... the difference is that people don't wage wars and kills others over unicorns and mermaids. So... why are you reading comments here?  Randomly wandered here from r/all... :]  You should read the FAQ. It was written especially for people like you.  No need. I outgrew this community of hatred long ago.

If you want to invoke change in the world it has to start with yourself.

Don't like hatred? 

Stop spreading it.

Don't like religion?

Stop talking about it. Unfortunately that does not work. 

To make a change you cannot let a boil fester.  In that case, you're saying this is a game of "Become a threat before the enemy does", which is Eye for an Eye and Tooth for a Tooth bullshit that should be left in the bronze age sheep herder philosophy that first spawned such thinking...

 Yes, an eye for an eye is iron age morality and bullshit.

You can however counter bad influence without resorting to that.  The problem with Oprah is that the power of her platform far exceeds that of her spiritual maturity.  I have no doubt that she is well-intentioned and an very intelligent person, but on spiritual matters she's still an adolescent. Anyone who takes and follows medical advice from a talk show host, be it Oprah or that quack Dr. Oz  is a fukking idiot that the planet can do without. What scripture is that referencing? I have no clue what book of the Bible First Esdras is... It's Ezra 10:10-14

&gt;10 Then Ezra the priest stood up and said to them, You have been unfaithful; you have married foreign women, adding to Israels guilt. 11 Now honor[a] the Lord, the God of your ancestors, and do his will. Separate yourselves from the peoples around you and from your foreign wives. It's actually from Edras, which is widely considered to better than Ezra.  And it's good Oh WAh how  Like soap on a rope? Good, good, good, gooooooood! Underrated post Go wait in the car.  That must be what the protesters means, but there is actually a book called 1 Esdras, which [has only 9 chapters](http://www.sacred-texts.com/bib/apo/es1.htm).

As so often, the "Christians" seem confused about their own scriptures. I know, right? They can't even agree on which books they want to follow. It's like they're just picking and choosing.  Isn't it strange to realize that the entire old Testament is in actuality Judaism but Christians still read from it as if it's their own  ...it's also Christianity, it's not just Judaism. Christianity is just Judaism+Jesus and the new testament is just the book about the life and times of Jesus. I feel like they could market the new testament a lot better by calling it "The Life and Times of Jesus."


Edit: It was a joke. Jesus people. We are on r/atheism. Not too many of us like the bible, but thank you for letting me know all the bad things that happened in it. /s And the Book of Mormon can become "Jesus 2: Electric Boogaloo", the award-winning sequel. And Mel Brook can direct the parody "Scientology: The Search for More Money" It wouldn't work without John Candy as L. Ron Hubbard. "I'm a Mod, half man, half god.  I'm my own messiah." Would be a bit misleading as he doesn't actually appear in all the books.   Like the whole book isn't misleading?!? The life and times of Jesus and then some. ... or even better, "The Hustle and Flow of the J-Dawg". It didn't work out so well when [Jefferson tried it](http://www.barnesandnoble.com/w/jefferson-bible-thomas-jefferson/1100036915?ean=9780807077146). Public domain PDF here: http://uuhouston.org/files/The_Jefferson_Bible.pdf (1902 printing) They all have their own flavors but basically:

Judaism = Old Testament

Christianity = Old Testament + New Testament

Islam = Old Testament + New Testament + Qur'an

Mormon = Old Testament + New Testament + Book of Mormon
 From a Jewish perspective:

&gt;Judaism = Tanakh

&gt;Christianity = Bits of the Tanakh that they kind of missed the point of + fanfic

&gt;Islam = Bits of the Tanakh that they kind of missed the point of + fanfic + really strange fanfic

&gt;Mormon = Christianity + shrooms From a sane perspective:
&gt;Judaism = bullshit

&gt;Christianity = bullshit + more bullshit

&gt;Islam = bullshit + child/goat rape

&gt;Mormon = bullshit + shrooms Well, I'd say "mythology". It's more descriptive. &gt; Islam = Old Testament + New Testament + Qur'an

Not so actually. Islam considers the OT + NT as corrupted books. It does however cite them to support its claims. &gt; Islam considers the OT + NT as corrupted books. It does however cite them to support its claims.

The claims that it's corrupt? Or some kind of 'this book is wrong except when it shows I'm right' thing? The Quran claims the books were edited either willingly or mistakenly. The Quran claims that it confirms the previous books (to gain credential with the Jews and Christians) and yet it claims they are corrupted and are not the genuine word of God (when the Jews rejected Muhammad as a prophet, things went a bit out of hand so to speak) All of the old testament is about hebrews and how they're the chosen people of god and how they have to follow the rules or they'll disappoint god.  If you're not a hebrew, as in not of the blood of Abraham, then following anything in the old testament will do absolutely nothing for you.  

Even the new testament, Jesus is not talking to everyone, he's preaching to jews.  When he talks about the old laws and how they still apply, he's talking to Jews.  Yes, much of the OT is about Jews following the word of God, not worshiping other deities, not intermingling the blood of the Jews - God's chosen people - with the blood of non-Jews.  And not planting two different types of crops in the same field or wearing clothes made from two different types of fabric or having homosexual sex, although, come to think of it, in this case wouldn't heterosexual sex be the outsider sex if only the same things - crops, cloth, etc. - can be together?  

Unless the woman holding the sign is Jewish and is advocating for strict adherence to orthodox Judaism as regards marriage, this wouldn't seem to apply.  

I really doubt she is an orthodox Jew.

tl;dr - Orthodox Jews are forbidden to marry non-Jews.  She is misquoting the OT to force it to apply to all interracial marriage. Jesus was very, very clear.

I was sent only to the lost sheep of Israel (Matthew 15:24).

I mean how much clearer can he have been, Jesus only came for the Jews, the rest of us are the gentiles that God waged war on and told the Jews to stay away from.  Christians are worshiping a God who does not like them.

This women in the picture is holding a sign that quotes a part of the bible that is discriminating against her. She is the type of person God told the Jews to be separate from. Yeah, but then Paul came along and started preaching to the Greeks, and Peter was like, "the fuck, Paul?"

And then God appeared to Peter and was like, "who the fuck died and made you the Pope?!" 

And presumably Peter was like, "dude, you did." 

And then God was like, "shut the fuck up dude I said it was okay and I'm God." So Paul was shaking the collection plate at the Greeks  and told Peter that God mysteriously appeared to him, while he was all alone, and told him it was all good.

Peter worked out exactly how much money was getting collected and said "Fuck yeah, God loves Greek gold too".

It's interesting that Jesus couldn't tell them all that before he died. yes, butto quote ezra is a bit odd. IIRC he was all about everyone living in or near jerusalem and not marrying outside or going out of that area. The people doing this stuff in alabama probably don't want to be near anyone from israel.  IIRC, "Christians" kinda consider themselves the true jews because they accept that Jesus was the true saviour, where Jews do not. That may be poorly worded, but anyway Christians and Jews ~~only~~ disagree on who's right and wrong about the son of God.

Edit: That's certainly not the only thing that separates the two beliefs. And a majority of the 613 laws they have. There is quite a difference. Christians ignore that Jesus did not want to remove Jewish law.  Insert mental gymnastics here about "all is fulfilled". Oh Paul did all the gymnastics for them. He realized that he was never going to sell his new religion to the Romans who abhored circumcision as genital mutilation without snipping a few things off the Jewish halakha.  So no gymnastics required.  Paul made it "scripture".  It's amazing to think that if it weren't for Paul - Christianity probably would have died out.  &gt; Christians ignore that Jesus did not want to remove Jewish law. 

Funny thing - they actually use one of the passages (Matt 5:18) where Jesus states quite clearly that he didn't intend to change the law in the least until the entire universe had run its course to claim that he did away with the law when he was crucified.  What's even funnier is they do so through a patently obvious and ridiculous distortion of language, trying to *parse* Jewish law away.....

It's pathetic. Not all branches. My coworker is a member of a devoutly fundamentalist Christian church and he studied Hebrew to read the Old Testament in a language closer to the original.

In his words, Jesus never came to abolish any of the Jewish laws; he came to reinforce them, clarify them, and add his own. Thusly it is equally vital to study the traditional Jewish laws as it is to study anything Jesus is purported to have said.  So he abstains from pork and wears four cornered garments? I met people who studied a lot too, but it's about whether they actually believe it. And you can tell that by how they live. Interestingly, for the seemingly mundane stuff he has reasoned excuses. I recognize the hypocrisy. But for the same of workplace peace I don't comment on it. 

In the case of mixed fabrics (for example), his argument is essentially "there's a difference between the intent of the writing and the literal interpretation. The intent is to trade with a man you trust, not all of the men of the village equally."

Likewise, he says god only WARNS about pork and his injunction against it is protective. During that time trichinosis was a serious health concern. It no longer is.  That's actually a bit odd. For one, suddenly allowing certain parts to be non-literal, and for another that Paul wrote a lot about how people who wanted to become Christians [didn't have to become Jews first](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Paul_the_Apostle_and_Judaism#Separation_with_Judaism). I think he basically said that he was divinely inspired--it was good at getting more converts who didn't want to follow a million rules and get circumcised.  &gt;injunction against it is protective. During that time trichinosis was a serious health concern. It no longer is.

Yeah, but homos, witches, abortionists, and atheists....they're a danger for all the ages.  That's what I call dedication. &gt; but anyway Christians and Jews only disagree on who's right and wrong about the son of God.

This is incorrect. The Jewish people do not believe that god is divisible. To them the Messiah is going to be only man that will live a full life and die like any other man.  In the sermon on the mount, Jesus said that he is not to change the mosaic laws, but to fulfill them. Not only that, he made them stricter by including thought-crime. You don't only commit adultery if you commit the act, if you think about it, you've committed the sin.

So, anything in the Old Testament still applies, only stricter. I thought this contradicted other passages, but that's not the case. You see, according to the bible, it's perfectly okay to *rape* foreign women during campaigns of conquest, but not to *marry* them. &gt; Ezra 10:10-14

So, no marrying French, Irish or Chinese people either. Makes you wonder if 50 years from now, people will look back at pictures from today's protest and ask "What's Leviticus?" It'll be much longer than 50 years I can only imagine 10 Then Ezra the priest stood up and said to them, "You have been unfaithful; you have married foreign women, adding to Israel's guilt. 11 Now make confession to the LORD, the God of your fathers, and do his will. Separate yourselves from the peoples around you and from your foreign wives." 12 The whole assembly responded with a loud voice: "You are right! We must do as you say. 13 But there are many people here and it is the rainy season; so we cannot stand outside. Besides, this matter cannot be taken care of in a day or two, because we have sinned greatly in this thing. 14 Let our officials act for the whole assembly. Then let everyone in our towns who has married a foreign woman come at a set time, along with the elders and judges of each town, until the fierce anger of our God in this matter is turned away from us." *They're not true Christians*. ^TM Probably didn't even like haggis, either.  Short term memory for most religious folks.  Well of course with the exception of 2000 years ago.  for some reason that memory seems to stick The problem is most religious individuals against gay marriage consider it a choice. Being black isn't a choice, so they don't see the causes as equivalent. Supporting gay marriage is condoning a sin (you might as well be am accessory to crime) which they don't want to do. 

Nothing will change (public opinion wise) until churches stop teaching that it's a choice/affliction/perversion that can be "overcome" (which is unlikely considering the fact that the Pope just announced his support for banning same sex marriage and adoption, and the LDS Church has asked to be able to legally discriminate).  &gt;consider it a choice

I once had a co-worker who told me being gay was a choice. I asked if he could choose to be gay if he wanted to. He said yes, he can perform the acts.

I had to elaborate. Could he make a choice to become aroused by the sight of the male body.

He had no answer. Same here...I asked him when he chose to be straight.  The fucking idiot finally got fired so I don't have to deal with him anymore - over work related events. The other big problem with this idea is that freedom of choice is one of the founding principals of the USA.  I have a choice to own a gun if I want, I have the choice to vote for the party I want to vote for, I have the choice weather or not to have my children vaccinated (for better or worse).  The people who say "being gay is a choice" are forgetting that being Christian is also a choice.  Freedom of choice is exactly what this country is all about.   To me, it shouldn't even matter if it is a choice. Even if it was possible to choose to be gay (which, for the record, I do not believe), Christian religious beliefs and personal opinions should have absolutely NO bearing on what consenting adults choose to do. It is none of their business. They can choose not to condone it, but they should not have any influence as to whether or not it should be allowed or legal. And I agree. Religion should not have an influence in the legal sphere. 

But when it comes to morals, for many Christians, they can't separate the two because doing so means making sin legal, which they cannot see as okay. For some, you might as well make murder legal. 

I also come across a problem with more hardcore Mormons and legalizing gay marriage. It is taught in the LDS faith that America is consecrated for the Mormons, much like Israel was consecrated to the Jews by God. So for them, allowing sins to be *legal* in a country for God and God's people is absolutely heinous. Especially since, in the Book of Mormon, the Nephites got screwed by God every time they started to allow iniquities to happen in the land. 

The concept of sin, old Protestant ideas of the many suffering for the sins of the few, ideas of condoning/allowing a sin making one as equally culpable of the transgression, and the threat of hellfire as punishment make these things much more complicated than "practice this on your own time, it doesn't belong in the public sphere", unfortunately. 

Edit: formatting well except you are commenting in an article where they did just that.

&gt;Supporting gay marriage is condoning a sin

well A the bible doesnt say that, and B no one asked them to support it, just accept it. ANd the bible DOES actually suggest this is not a sin with the whole render unto caesar thing. Governments law cant make you a sinner.

as for the choice thing... ask any hyper religious right winger, what they would do is them pesky liberal dems banned sex between the opposite sexes. 

If sex with women was illegal, I would be a law breaker. I wouldnt suddenly crave dick. My dick gets hard at what it gets hard at.. i dont have a lot of control over that.. and sometimes that is painfully obvious. :P

and what is also interesting.. many right winger religious nuts, claim that men are so out of control of their own sexual urges, that a womans dress CAN CAUSE the men to rape her.

but gays are magical men, who have special super powers over their sexual urges and decided to like dick all on their own. which suggests if they decided to like pussy again, they could also decide not to rape a sexy half naked chick. Which would mean right winger christian nuts are claiming gays are better than normal people.


 And the same argument that "It is a choice to integrate!" was used back during the Civil Rights movement to justify to these people to maintain segregation.  While I agree with you, I think in a bigger picture it comes down to the ambiguity of scripture as a whole. Use the right interpretation, and you can turn anything good or neutral into something bad, or anything bad into something neutral or good, etc.

So what I'm trying to get at is, while Christianity might mature as a whole once the majority realizes sexual orientation isn't a choice, I can still see them condemning it for any other reason (albeit at that point they'll be stretching), likewise Christians today can still argue how black people aren't as pure as white people (even though they have to stretch further now than they did previously in time).

It can get better for the intellect of their religion, but it'll still always be bad--that's just the general nature of most religious faiths. I think it's the same as how, just before my grandmother died, she could only remember things that happened in her 20s and 30s, even though she lived to 94. Plus, her entire mind had eroded and she was mentally incompetent, like, you know, people who think marriage equality is a bad thing. Well with Alzheimer's it is well documented that the most current memories are the first ones to go. It's quite common that you get people that can recognize their spouses but not their children or grandchildren. The best way to relate to someone with Alzheimer's is not to question their reality. If they say something just pretend you see or know what they are saying improv style. For instance if they say there are monkeys outside the windows, say "well I think it's quite early in the season for monkeys." Genuine question: why is this a better method than correcting them each time ?  The shock and grief it can cause, largely. If you have to explain three times a day that someone's husband is not there because he is dead, it's going to be horrible. On a not particularly lighter note, trying to introduce children that they don't remember can trigger confusion, upset and anger in the Alzheimer sufferer, which in turn is distressing for the loved ones of said patient. It sounds harsh, but it's truly just easier to allow them their constructs and encourage cognitive activity through other means. It keeps the patient calm, happy and painfree which with most degenerative diseases, is all you can do. It's different this time!  Those people in the past were ignorant! "Integration is a mortal sin"... I mean, wow. My calculus professor is in for a surprise. ...plus a constant.  And that is a fake memory too. To give them credit I can barely remember what I had for lunch last week but I can remember just about every episode of Avatar: Last Air Bender... That being said I don't believe there's such a thing as an Air Bison &gt; That being said I don't believe there's such a thing as an Air Bison

Heretic! &gt;I don't believe there's such a thing as an Air Bison

you shut your whore mouth Stock the fire Yeah I think the "truth" was decided by a committee about 500 years after the "fact." You know, just little details, like that his mother was actually a virgin, because sex is dirty and the savior can't have been born of a dirty filthy female. We don't have to speculate. History does tell us a lot.

http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/First_Council_of_Nicaea

325 ad

A bunch  of Roman Christians got their shit together and made a consensus that in part started the Catholic tradition.

But there was never changes in the actual books of religion, just control over what books matter and what books don't. If you think about it, it is actually very hard to change books centuries after it has been made, because by that time hundreds of monk-scholars would be copying it word for word to preserve it around the known world and they would not have contact with each other for that duration of time all while valuing the purity of text.

This applies to other religions besides Christianity, As Jewish Rabbis preserved their text without much difference from the mutual texts that Christianity shares with them; and Islam cared so much about the purity of their text that they require Imams to learn the language it was originally written in and even nowadays they still treat their holy text with such care as to not ruin the message or lose any information(Don't mess with a Muslim's Quran, you will regret it). 
 Funny thing about Nicaea. In Spanish (Spain) we still have a saying that goes like so: "armarse la de Dios es Cristo". Literally it would be "to be a great commotion around the fact that God is Christ". It is used when a great commotion or chaos happens for whatever reason and apparently harks back to the heated debate around the divinity of some Jesus of Nazareth.

Explanation in ES: http://www.yorokobu.es/el-origen-de-los-dichos-armarse-la-de-dios-es-cristo/ Seriously? Plenty of scripture was changed, plenty of additions happened that stand in stark contrast to previous verses.  Not true. Historical texts are notoriously inaccurate and it was not uncommon for scribes to change the texts they were copying.  
One example is the gospel of John. Early texts do not contain the parable of the adulterous woman where Jesus challenges those without sin to cast the first stone and many of the earliest ones that do have the passage marked as possibly not by John.  For what it's worth, in Alabama, they'd probably still join in with the protest from OP's picture if it were held today. "Christians" look at an old photo like this and think, "We lost that fight, but damnit we're not going to lose this one!" It's the same people, and they haven't changed. Yeah, pretty much. Got one sitting in my living room this moment. Says she "doesn't hate gays, she just doesn't think she should have to see them on TV, or in public, or EVER", she's totally not racist because "she has black friends who know better than to act black", and she's Republican because "how dare Clinton disrespect his wife like that, oh and speaking of Hillary why hasn't she answered for Benghazi yet?"

And yet, it's always someone else's problem. Can you hold her in your living room indefinitely? That'd be a solid for the rest of us. :-) Holding a pillow over her face for a solid 5 minutes would be even better though. Well, I always wondered which verses they used to justify racial prejudices. I figured that the fact that all the racism in the Bible tending to be of the "non-jews are worthless and/or unclean" variety would prevent them from using those verses to promote discrimination along other racial differences.

I forgot how easy it is for them to misinterpret a verse for their purposes I guess.

Saving this for future reference. From what I understand from the older, bigoted members of my family, they use the story of the Tower of Babel to justify their prejudice.  It's the story of when God allegedly separated people by language (so also by race, it's assumed), therefore God's intention was for the various races to not coexist with one another.  Presumably because God was afraid they would be capable of building a tower to heaven.  Why a stone tower would bother him but an INTERNATIONAL SPACE STATION is allowed to slide is apparently just another one of those "mysterious ways" things. Oh, those mysterious ways.  I've heard that's also how she moves. It's alright, though. She lifts my days and lights up my nights So God puts people on Earth, a place of finite space.

Then He commands them to be split up, because clearly they aren't meant to coexist in this finite space.

Oh, and He commanded them to be fruitful and multiply (in such vague terms that clearly, he means use up 100% of this finite space and even then keep multiplying). 

But remember, you aren't allowed to coexist. If you do, that's your fault. You're supposed to take up every inch of the planet while somehow not interacting with anyone different. Oh, and if you kill someone else so they won't be in the way, that's a sin. So you can't do that.

You can't coexist, you can't keep to yourself, and you can't get rid of everyone else. No matter what you do, you're wrong.

And all that is supposed to make sense.

Edit: Oh, and you can't leave the finite space, either. Science is of the devil. There was an AskHistorians thread about religious defences of slavery: http://www.reddit.com/r/AskHistorians/comments/1wa6da/in_the_past_did_people_try_to_use_religionthe/

Some Christians were abolitionists; others defended the institution of slavery on Biblical grounds; turns out you can read anything in, and out of, that book.

Something to keep in mind next time you run into the argument that 'moral progress' in the West was spearheaded by Christianity. They like to take credit for everything, but the fact is, in a culture dominated by religion, every argument is couched in religious terms. We just remember the winners. If anything secularism has played a larger role because it works to rein in the religious extremes and immoral "teachings". The Southern Baptists split from the Baptist convention before the Civil War explicitly over the issue of being pro-slavery.  After the Civil War the Southern Baptists became an exclusively white congregation as freed blacks understandible left the religion in droves.  The Southern Baptists then went on to bring us the Jim Crow laws and birth such modern heros of moral progress as Jerry Falwell and Pat Robertson. Why did you take photos of your recent trip to Alabama in black and white? Alabama is still behind in times that colored photos aren't allowed. Something about "that's not how photos have always been" and it would ruin sanctity of their scrapbooks if others could take colored pitchers too. People there are still unsure what 'colored' means so it's best to just ban them and not chance it. Yeah my brown wife and I are RUINING the world. Just WRECKING it. And when we have our mixed kids, they're going to take vaccines and learn Evolution and shit.  Christian and lifelong Alabamian here:

As an Alabamian, I'm so ashamed of my neighbors.  We've been through this before, and we've learned nothing.  I don't even understand what the argument against it is, other than the fact that there's just hatred and bigotry in their heart.

As a Christian, I'm just happy for anyone who gets married today. What two consenting people do is their own business and not mine.  It does not affect me in any way, shape, or form, and if they are firm and happy in their beliefs and lives, more power to them.  It's not for me to judge, and I'm happy for them if they are. Alabamian here. The general population from what I've seen don't really care we must have career politicians from the 70s still in office  That's been my experience as well. I've been pleasantly surprised by the lack of resistance from so many people. I really haven't heard it come up in the office.  From a Mississippian: thank you.  from a genuinely perplexed person, how do you reconcile all of the doctrinal fallacies of your religion with regard to changing social norms? Oooh! I know you didn't ask me, but may I answer? 

First of all, just a tiny background. I am a closeted atheist in the Bible Belt (so, errrbody pretty much expects you to belong in a church, and I still do, but I kinda go for the service projects and the occasional meal--btw, spouse totally knows my view, but I shall remain closeted for a while at least). 

One of the reasons I can do so is that, although we're in the Bible Belt, we're also in a large city, in an area with lots of liberals and progressives. My church now performs gay marriage, promotes interfaith discussions/services, etc., we've even got one openly gay staff member and several openly gay Elders. 

Our church's take on "doctrinal fallacies" is that the Bible is absolutely not literal, not in the least. And our senior minister goes to great lengths to get into the historical, etymological, translation-based "weeds" of the Bible, and basically says that certain passages are "time bound" while others are "timeless". 

So, as a stupid example, slavery. Everyone knows that slavery exists in the Bible, and that it existed in Biblical times. And many passages deal with the "proper rules" of slavery. Those passages would be "time bound". Passages about the teachings of Christ would generally speaking be "timeless". 

You can say that's a cop out, that's fine, but I simply wanted to point out that many churches are so so far from the literal, young earth, evangelical types. 

There's absolutely no way I could even handle it (mind you, this is the church I grew up in, etc etc) if it weren't like that. 

Still, some day I'll probably grow a pair and leave, but overall (except that I don't believe the underlying context!) it's a cool, welcoming, progressive kinda place.  Just my own two cents, but I try not to take anything in the Bible too literally.  

I generally have a fairly strong belief in God, but not that much in man.  It's man who has gone above and beyond to translate and mix up much of what God has said, usually in the name of something bigoted, violent, or usually both.  

There's no guarantee to me that any interpretation or translation of the Bible is literate or accurate enough, but the basic tenants of what Jesus tried to get across seem to ring true: Be a cool chill person, be generous, and treat others with love and respect.

To me, being welcoming and wishing the best to anyone of all walks of life, despite *any* of our shortcomings, is pursuant to that goal. Good for you! I wouldn't have such a problem with organized religion if people thought more like you.  Doesn't that approach kind of remove any of the distinctions between a religion and a philosophy? I get believing in God, but do you really feel like the founders of Christianity had genuine cosmic insight into the nature and origin of our universe? That is the basis for Christianity's claim to authority. If it's just a moral guidebook that isn't to be taken literally, what sets it apart from something published by other philosophers with similar outlooks? Is nobody going to address the fact that that one woman is wearing mismatched socks? I've been looking for a metaphor that works in a way similar to "a doctor with dead plants in his office" and I think a segregationist with mismatched socks might just work, so thanks! As an Alabamian I can tell you that the majority of people here who think this way are the older generation. But they are dying off. So give us a few years and you will see a difference in how the state does things.  The young adult crowd is very different than the old one way of thinking crowd. 

 I hope for the best. Good to know !  I think quite a few of them still think that, they just say it in private.  I'm from the Bible belt, and unfortunately most are not "private" about expressing their opinions...  Why would they be? It's the Bible belt, most of them agree with each other Eh... Mississippi only reached majority of acceptance of racial marriage in 2012 (51/49).  They're kinda openly racist. I don't doubt it, but do you have a source? [Here's 2011, where the GOP voters said that it shouldn't be (46 opp/40 sup, 4 und).](http://www.nydailynews.com/news/national/interracial-marriage-illegal-46-mississippi-republicans-new-poll-article-1.111449)  That poll puts it at 35% (46% of 76+%) of the population adamantly thinks it shouldn't be legal, in 2011, and an estimated 21% of the remaining 24% (thus, 6% of total) of Dem voters agree, due to social settings.  Discarding the nones, and moving forward, we have roughly 41/42 (opp/sup) by 2012, slowly improving as the old folks die off.

Thank you for questioning me, and have a nice day! You seem to be insinuating that most of them don't still believe integration is a sin. Back-woods is as back-woods does and they don't take too kindly to "yer type".  Now Skeeter, he ain't hurting' nobody... NAW, I WANNA KNOW SOMETHIN.  He just a boy There are those who are as you say. However, OP is right for the majority. I have gotten into so many debates about this, comparing the battle against same sex right to the battle against civil rights. And every single time I have, I get blasted into oblivion by people telling me that they are not the same. 

I have an African American friend(well, former friend), who is a very devout Christian. He stopped talking to me after one of his anti-same sex marriage posts on Facebook caught my eye. I told him that as a respectable black man, I cannot believe that he would be so vocal about not wanting a group to have the same rights as everyone else, considering how hard his grandparents fought for his his family to have equal rights. I told him that the same group that he is now a part of, was the same group that they had to fight against. And that now he is so integrated, that he is on their side of the picket line, doing the same to a new group. 

Well, being that im white, he claimed that I was racist, and that I don't know what Im talking about. It got nasty. I guess the point is that people refuse to hear reason, and very quickly forget the past. &gt; I have an African American friend(well, former friend), who is a very devout Christian.

"If you're a black Christian, you have a real short memory." -Chris Rock You tried. It's important to at least try. I've had this problem talking with a few black friends even though I'm black and gay. Sometimes people are offended by the comparison of black and lgbt equality movements because they think you're comparing the struggle. Blacks may have endured a longer and more violent struggle, but the fundamental argument for equal rights is the same. Ultimately, I think accusing the comparison of being racist is just an excuse for their homophobia. &gt;Blacks may have endured a longer and more violent struggle

I don't know, being gay hasn't exactly been accepted for a long fucking time at this point.

The only thing going for it is that its not immediately externally obvious to a stranger that you are gay.  On the flip side though, even if you weren't gay, if you displayed feminine characteristics you could still be targeted. So even the idea that it isn't visible doesn't ring true because of what societies have associated with homosexuality. Whether true or not. Less, blatantly obvious then?

I am a 6 foot 2, 380 pound white dude with a beard and 18 inch biceps.

I am bisexual, I am not effeminate in any way and if I didn't know me or didn't ask you wouldn't know I was homosexual.

Even the lightest skinned black man will still be easily identified as a black man. It's sad, but I guess that being gay, they see you as the enemy, regardless of the fact that you're black. I really just can't wait for everyone to realize that people are people. It almost feels like they (people in general) have to have someone to be "against", or oppress. When homosexuality is an accepted thing across the board, I am sort of afraid to know who will take its place on the hate board. Look at the way gay people are treated in Africa. The only difference is gays can often conceal their identity, but when revealed their punishments are just as severe. I'm gay and I had a conversation with a black coworker about this. She was adamant that her struggle was more real. She wanted to play the oppression Olympics. also she though poor people didn't work hard enough for good healthcare so it was their own fault. So many things I could have said. 

Also once I said jesus as an exclamation and she told me not to take the lords name in vain. I said thanks and lchaim because jesus isn't my lord Pretty certain regardless of everything else you said once he saw "black man", he would have lost it.

But to be fair many members of the African American community are anti-gay.  Owing mainly to the strength of Christianity within the community. Well how else will try pray the poverty away? Some better historical perspective might be to remind Christians that when Paul wrote his letters and went on his journeys:

1 - Infanticide was commonly practised in Greece

2 - Homosexuality was commonly practised throughout the Roman empire and considered by most to be a normal healthy way for men to express love, even if they were married to women!  (Those Greeks again.)

3 - Prostitution was legal and common

4 - Games of sport (such as wrestling) were often done in the nude and attended by men and women.

5 - Drug use may have been common (they called it sorcery, the Greek word is  (phar-ma-kia) which suggests that drugs were sometimes used to 'magically' heal or influence.  

Not one of these was a hot button issue for the apostles.  
Paul doesn't tell the Christians to protest, march, complain, interfere, politicize or in any way engage society to change any of these 'issues'.  Instead, he tells them they are only to concern themselves with their own behaviour.  Admittedly, in at least one place, he says that using a prostitute is a bad idea.  It also appears he tells them that drug use is bad and that homosexuality is bad (I know this one is argued a lot but to be fair it is there).

My point is, that activist Christianity and the assumption that Christian values should be applied to a non-Christian social and political culture seems to oppose the practices of the early Christians.  They apparently decided that once a person became a Christian, their behaviour and personal life would change but that forcing change on a culture was meaningless.

In fact, when Christianity did become the official religion of the Empire under Constantine, it seems he did it for entirely political purposes and his own ego, neither of which was very Christian.  As Jesus said, "My kingdom is not of this world".   

A message that today's Christians have completely lost.

There is no such thing as a "Christian" society or culture.  Paul understood that, Jesus taught it.  Christians today don't seem to get it.  As Jesus also said, "You are in the world, not of the world."  In the Greek, that word for world means culture and society.  

By protesting, these people are actually sinning according to the standards of the New Testament.  

TL:DR  Christians are wrong to be issues focused; the Bible tells them to fix the church, not the world around them. Except Paul railed against all of those things you mentioned, to the point where he was almost killed numerous times, literally started a riot in Ephesus, and was exiled to an island because of it. You missed that part. Not here to argue anything about the bible or what this sign says, but I'd like to point out how dumb this protestor is-

The books of 1 &amp; 2 Esdras are not considered canonical by the Catholics or Protestants. The Greek Orthodox Church does, the side of Christianity that split in the Scism of 1096 (or thereabouts) which also created the Roman Catholic Church. 

However, 1 Esdras doesn't have 10 chapters, it has 9. The book of Ezra has a passage in chapter 10 that talks about not marrying out of your race. 

I just wanted to point that out, that not only is this person a racist taking the scripture out of context to justify their beliefs, they're also an idiot for getting the reference wrong and quoting a non existent chapter According to this wikipedia article he's just pointing to one of the alternative names and chapter numbers, that are canonical to most Christians.

http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Esdras That's just like... Edras' opinion, man. I always look for pictures of my grandparents in these types of photos.  I never see anyone fat enough to be them. Don't waste your time...

Hypocrisy is at the heart of Christianity. Please don't put, "Christians," in quotes in a context like this.  It [undermines your argument](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/No_true_Scotsman).  They *are* Christians, and both they and the rest of Christianity (especially the leadership) need to take ownership and responsibility for the conflicts in ideology, morality, and action.

For example, priestswhatever their own personal beliefsneed to be saying at every step of the way and a lot more often than they currently do, "If you support or have a problem with gay marriage, please keep the outside expression of that opinion separate from your involvement with the church, and do not use our religion as an excuse."  Even those very same priests expressing their own opinions could get away with it if they followed their own advice.  It's when people claim to be speaking for their religion (one way or the other!) and obviously there are many disparate beliefs within the religion that there's a problem with hypocrisy.  That's when it becomes legitimate for the rest of us to criticize the religion itself.

If you're truly going to claim to be speaking for a whole group, be very ready to take an authoritarian rather than an inclusive democratic approach to membership, and be ready to officially ostracize (e.g. excommunicate) people who disagree (EDIT: or, if you're not coming at it from a position of authority, be ready to explicitly renounce membership and form your own separate group).  That doesn't sound much like modern Christianity, so it'd be far better to espouse (outside) separation of the church from these issues until a general consensus can be reached (internally).

EDIT: I think this is worth a discussion unto itself.  Here's a separate thread: [Fundamental Problem: All "Christians" are Christian, all "Muslims" are Muslim, etc.](https://www.reddit.com/r/atheism/comments/2vdouh/fundamental_problem_all_christians_are_christian/)

(EDIT: Grammatical typo.) Those checkered capris are a mortal sin. Speaking as an Alabama native, irony like this is utterly lost on the most vocal opponents of marriage equality, of that I can assure you. The rest of us, however, appreciate the uncomfortable light being shined on our leaders for their backwards ideology.   Why do religious people want others to be miserable cunts like them? Puritanism: The sneaky suspicion that someone, somewhere, is out there having fun.  Wow, God is a dick!  Damn. I guess I can tell my students class is cancelled today. Calculus is a real hotbed of sin.  Historians say that Leibniz and Newton were unaware of each other's mathematical theories, but I know the truth - those two were gay demon lovers! Upvoting that picture feels weird. Sorry I don't know this, but, what is integration in this context? google reverse image search:

"(C) Bettmann/CORBIS ORIGINAL CUTLINE Mrs. Lee Hooks and other white housewives demonstrate against planned desegregation at William Frantz Elementary School in New Orleans. December 2, 1960 New Orleans, Louisiana, USA"

http://www.nola.com/politics/index.ssf/2010/11/fifty_years_later_students_rec.html Thanks for the replies! If you look at the sign half hidden in the back it says "God demands segregation."

As in segregation of blacks and whites.   The people in our state wanted to keep blacks and whites separate. (Schools, recreation, benches, places to eat, water fountains.. The list goes on)  Even back then they were protesting Common Core, they just really don't want their kids to learn math. I wonder if that lady is representing segregation with her socks on purpose or she was just in a rush to this ridiculous protest I wondered the same thing. In case anyone is wondering where the book of I Esdras is in your Bible (unless you're a Catholic or one of the other denominations that recognizes the Apocrypha.)  [LINK](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/1_Esdras) What is 1 Esdras?  I've never heard of that one. It's Ezra in the English Standard Version. The verses on her sign basically say that marrying foreign women is wrong.  I'd say those plaid pants and granny glasses were the real mortal sin of that era. Alabama Supreme Court Chief Justice Roy Moore can suck it. Lol, been there done that. In the US, we don't force our religious views on others. If you are against Gay marriage, YOU don't do it. You don't stop others from doing it, it's UN-American.

History will remember the hateful people standing in the way on justice for American citizens. Yes, yes; they're against same sex marriage because their moldy old book has some pretty ignorant things to say about gays. Courtesy of Bronze Age goat-burning superstitious savages in loincloths who didn't understand the Earth is round or how a lightning bolts works. How then would they understand that *some people are gay. Get over it.* From Alabama: just want to mention, although it is obvious, that not all straight Alabamians are like this. Also, I'd like to mention that the bammers that are like this are push overs anyway. There are enough rational people down here now a days that even if these retards actually think that being gay is "bad" they'll pretty much adopt whatever the prevailing opinion is, which in more populated areas is that being gay is o.k. 


Granted, some of them are actually bad people, but the majority are just ignorant. A perfect example of why it's a bad idea to "nuke the south" is my mom and other female family members. My mom is probably the most dedicated "God fearing" person that I know but after being in contact with several different gay people, from the dudes at her hair salon, to gay dudes at her gym, she has zero animosity towards gay people, and I can guarantee you that if someone tried to fuck with a gay person she cares about they are going to be hearing from her. 

Like I said, I know that all of this technically goes without saying, but I still felt compelled to make a comment. On a personal note, I really hope this blows up enough to warrant pro-gay parades. If it does, and you see a picture of a guy holding a sign that says "Str8's 4 gays, King James was a power bottom*" in downtown Dothan,  AL, it's me. 

*King James was super gay, his love letters are historical record.


TL;DR Please don't nuke the south.


Edit: Goddamnit, I knew Alabama would be in the news for this.
 Statistically, one of them is gay. Yep...reminds me of an image I saw during the whole "chick fil a" fiasco, of a bunch of black people in a church holding up chick-fil-a bags.

Looks like they already forgot that various churches vehemently opposed integration and the civil rights movement. 20 years from now, they'll know they were on the wrong side of history You sure about that? They still don't seem to be terribly cognizant of all the other times they've been on the wrong side of history. Why is this like this?  Ignorance and hate has to be a cultural thing?  why is such a successful culture so dirty in these aspects?  no they wont See, the problem is that some people still think integration is wrong. I'm a Christian and I'll upvote the shit out of this anyday. Even if someone isn't living the "way God sees fit" or how the church deems fit doesn't give you a right to condem them and protest something they're entitled to. Unconditional love is shown more in the bible than is anything towards people living "the wrong way". People need to let people live in any way they please  CALC 2 IS THE DEVIL Here's a bit more historical perspective:

Marriage predates your fairy tale bullshit. You have no claim on it. I read that as irrigation. 

I was wondering why watering your crops would be a sin.  They're still Christians, whether you agree with their interpretations or not.

To attempt to ostracise them in order to appeal to popular modern opinion is little other than the No True Scotsman fallacy. "Those people weren't proper Christians," they'll say. "Their bigotry wasn't supported in scripture like mine clearly is," they'll say every fifty years until the end of time. 

We already remember Reverend MLK Jr.'s role in fighting bigotry more than the mainstream Christian dogma he was fighting against. How long before the Christian Right claims with a straight face that gay marriage was always the moral choice taught by their unchanging book? And many of them would STILL support segregation. And seriously, what a stupid thing to protest or be so vehemently against. Seriously, who gives a shit if 2 dudes want to get married? It doesn't affect you in any way! Unless of course you get invited to the ceremony, in which case yay for you!

Seriously, fucking bigots man. I don't get 'em.  How exhausting it must be to have so much hate for something that in the grand scheme of things is so incredibly minor (in that it doesn't affect a heterosexuals rights or daily lives in any way shape or form). Some 'Christians' probably think it's all been downhill from there. This is a predictable trend.  Derivation by parts! Separate but equal! No integration! Yeah, something tells me that many of the people protesting marriage equity  would be ecstatic to see segregation reinstated. Except maybe Clarence Thomas. A black person being against gay rights is the height of ignorance.  I think we have reached the point where it is officially OK to not give two shits what these haters think or say. This particular debate is over and we won. We are just waiting on the Supremes to call it. 
 What kills me about a picture like this is that they're all women. You know, another one of those groups against which the Bible actively encourages discrimination? I've posted this many times, but it fits here perfectly.

[
Watch the whole video.  Missouri Pastor's Gay Marriage Speech.](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A8JsRx2lois) The problem with this argument is that the sort of people who protest gay marriage are the sort of people who probably would support things like segregation and banning immigration. Seeing stuff like this only cements their view because they see it as proof of 'liberals' systematically destroying the country. Ordained Alabamian here: I haven't personally seen any of the drama in my county besides on facebook, but I'm gonna take this opportunity to perform as many gay marriages as I can, because fuck discrimination.  The problem is that you are assuming these people would now believe segregation was wrong. Just because they were forced to integrate doesn't mean their views have changed.  The point remains though. There are many of the younger generation that will say the bible is against gay marriage but they aren't racist because they've grown up in a diverse enough environment. They need to see and know about the way religion has been used as a mechanism for hatred just a few generations ago. I'm from the Bible Belt and know several that this would probably make them think for at least a split second... There's a much more fundamental problem with this entire argument: just because a group once protested against one thing which is now socially acceptable does not mean that *everything* they protest against should be socially acceptable ... if they were protesting against 8 year old girls being forced into marriage, would OP pull out this photo to try to shame them into thinking they must be wrong to protest? I think not 1) Why is it "christians"?

2) Do people have nothing better to do than protest another group of people? 1. Christians were told by Christ himself: "Thou shalt love thy neighbour as thyself. There is none other commandment greater than these." Mark 12:31
The quotation marks are signifying that these people are hypocrites.

2. Yeah. Pretty much. For 1) I meant in OP's title.

They are Christians, I didn't get why they were called 'christians' I don't like the quotes either. To me it seems to be playing into a "no true Scottsman" defense. After all, no *true* Christian would publicly demonstrate support of institutionalized bigotry, right? Considering that the fundamental message of the entire Gospel section of the New Testament is "don't be a dick to each other, because I said so", yes, you are correct and that was indeed my point.
No true Christian would publicly demonstrate support of institutionalized bigotry. Yeah, that's just kind of nonsense though. Christianity isn't just the things you like about the gospels it's all of it. Jesus said a lot more than "do unto others" if you take the Gospels of MML&amp;J as, well, Gospel. He also likened non-Jews to dogs -- "It is not right to take the children's bread and toss it to the dogs." --  and did not abolish the laws of Moses. 

If you want to use an idealized definition of the word, fine, but it renders it meaningless to me if most Christians and a great deal of Christian teachings are not "truly" Christian. I think truth can be observed. Even the simplest man could understand that: Christian is as Christian does. The quotation marks in the title are a literary device allowing OP to signal that he does not believe that the term Christian truly applies in this context -- either because the term itself is illegitimate or because the term does not accurately describe the people protesting. I am willing to bet it is the latter. It seems likely that OP does not believe that bigotry/hate/intolerance are compatible with the the teachings of Christ and, therefor, that the protesters are not true Christians.  I agree that was the intent behind the quotes.  But it's a tired cliche that I've seen way too often lately.

There are 30,000+ sects of Christianity.  A lot of them do some heinous shit.  It doesn't make them any less "Christian". cause 99% of the time, someone against this stuff is Christian :P I'm not sure that will be an entirely convincing argument about hypocrisy to Alabaman protesters of same-sex marriage. They probably still believe in segregation too. Blacks which make up a large chunk of the state's population tend to be strongly religious and anti equality, sort of ironic. True but they don't go up protesting much about integration I don't know why we'd need to put Christians in scare quotes. The Bible speaks against homosexuality, &amp; it's not like Jesus said to ignore that old law. He said love thy neighbor &amp; love thy enemy, but that doesn't mean, "allow gay marriage." He spoke against lust like the guy was really turned off by sex, so I can't get on board with accusing someone of being a fake Christian just because they don't have a liberal, modern interpretation of Christianity. Agreed.  I wouldn't call them "fake Christians".  What I would call them are filthy bigots who sanctimoniously and unilaterally decide they have the right to deny a certain groups of people civil rights and justify their actions by claiming their imaginary God and book of bible fairy tales gives them the "moral authority" to do so. It would be like putting quotes around "atheists" in a headline where atheists are doing something I disagree with. &gt;I don't know why we'd need to put Christians in scare quotes.

I guess my issue is the cherry picking that Christians use to justify their actions.  In my humble opinion, either you reject none of it or you reject all of it.  If it's the true word of God then none of it should be considered as symbolism.  

For example, you have to be OK with both Leviticus 18:22 (You shall not lie with a male as with a woman. It is an abomination) and Leviticus 25:44 (And as for your male and female slaves whom you may have-from the nations that are around you, from them you may buy male and female slaves.).  If you don't agree with slavery then you can't just choose to say that homosexuality is bad because the bible. Are you saying you'd rather a Christian support slavery &amp; stoning gay people to death than oppose slavery while opposing gay marriage? I would rather a Christian realize that in today's culture, slavery is unacceptable and then come to a rational conclusion that if slavery is bad, then maybe everything else should be questioned. Being a Christian requires cherry picking.  The book that the religion is based on is completely contradictory.

From my readings of the Bible, it seems to me that a lot more cherry picking is required to come away with some nice philosophy, than to come away with the nasty shit in the OP, or worse.  All the good stuff is confined to a few nice chapters in the back. Why would an Hispanic say that? Do they really think that browns any different from blacks in the eyes of the white man? What the fuck? they thinks theys can be better than thems there blacks ._. as my grandma would say :P They are still protesting that in Alabama. You cannot reason people out of a position that they did not reason themselves into. But they are allowed to protest.   

I mean, is them standing outside really going to change the outcome of this decision or state civil rights? Does the sign behind say 'integation'? Probably "segregation."

Edit: Yep, [found the full sign here](http://i.imgur.com/Kw9TV.png). Just like the anti-race-mixers from 60 years ago. Im shocked!
http://i.imgur.com/Tjx34wS.jpg

  Christians want to twist these things to work for them. Isn't take care of thy neighbor one of the most basic Christian beliefs?   Yet, here in Alabama, 90% of them don't support the affordable care act.  I am unfamiliar with the book (presumably of the Bible) quoted.

Anyone have a guess as to her denomination? Unfortunately for me, she's probably a catholic. That's based on her use of the term "mortal sin." Also, Esdras is the traditional catholic title for Ezra. Geologist here. Forgive me for no Citations because I'm at an airport on my phone, but rafting is real. Small animals, insects, and seeds especially get caught on rafts of tangled driftwood that wash down rivers and get caught on ocean currents. This is one way species popuate volcanic islands like the Galapagos and Hawai'i, which were never connected to mainland.

Edit: the sign is still bullshit, rafting is in addition to plate tectonics, not an alternate explanation.  Yeah, wow. I was surprised I had to get this deep to see this comment.

For one, it's supposed to be where new world monkeys come from: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/New_World_monkey#Origin Glad someone else already put this up there! This was one of my favorite chapters in The Ancestor's Tale (it also discussed the origins of human color vision). [Here's the wiki](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Oceanic_dispersal) on rafting as a method of dispersal.  This is correct. I believe "The Ancestor's Tale" by Richard Dawkins has a section, if not a chapter, on rafting.  So... if the trees floated and could carry animals why did they need the ark? Also couldn't humans have floated on the rafts too? Also so shouldn't there be lions in Africa AND South America then? Why are the animals just similar but not the same species? Doesn't the fact that they admit plant and animal life is similar but not the same only support evolutionary theory? Also did the plants hitch a ride on the rafts too? Also what about Australia? Also why is my brain melting? Did their god suspend the need for the animals to eat or drink?  Cause mount ararat is a long fucking raft ride away from Australia or North America.

It always comes back to magic.  They have a perfectly reasonable explanation, as long as they're allowed to insert magic at any stage of the game.  

"No, no, it totally happened.  Noah really built that boat and wrangled all of the animals on board.  He totally lived on it for a year with his family.  Using science, we can clearly see that the animals must have then been swept around the globe on mats of vegetation...  Which was propelled by magic, and all of the animals magically behaved themselves and magically ended up in the right spots without having to eat until they magically had so many offspring that the balance of animals was in equilibrium and one lion attack wouldn't completely halt the propagation of all large herbivores." God gave the animals sack lunches. Do you even science bro? Animal crackers. I was thinking animal style In-N-Out burgers. Probably the first historical use of product placement that the chain is still paying back with all the Jesus on their packaging. This is correct. In fact, the name "In-N-Out" refers to the Lord's three-day visit to the afterlife following his crucifixion.  We belong to the 7 day Tupperware adventists. We believe christ went in to a tupperware cave, and returned as fresh as the day he went in, 3 days later.  The holy trinity. The father, the son, and the stay fresh seal. this comment is amazing.
 Thanks for reminding me that I don't live anywhere near an in-and-out.  &gt;Animal crackers.

God just saved the White animals? And there went my coffee out through my nose And they all surfed like that penguin movie   Don't forget the impact on ocean life. If things flooded with enough force to uproot all the trees, the amount of mud and foliage in the oceans would be devastating. Sorry but oceans have a way of shutting all that down. Only if it's legitimate flooding. Wouldn't the result be an underwater 'nuclear winter' type scenario? I'd imagine that many aquatic species wouldn't be able to get oxygen from extremely muddied water.

Then again, I guess that the sheer volume of water would dilute about any amount of dirt to safe levels. Sorry, I got my marine biology degree from Art Vandelay U. What about the change in salinity? All that rainwater would dilute the oceans, right? Good question. According to the lord god Google:

&gt;The total volume of water on Earth is estimated at 1.386 billion km (333 million cubic miles), with 97.5% being salt water and 2.5% being fresh water. Of the fresh water, only 0.3% is in liquid form on the surface.

That's a lotta honkin' salt water, especially when it would take at least 4.5 billion cubic kilometres of rain water to cover the highest mountains as their book states that it did. One would think that such a massive dilution would make salt water not all that salty.

Perhaps the world's oceans were much saltier pre-flood? Maybe. I'd say that a more likely explanation is that the salinity of our oceans was simply raised by the tears Jesus shed when the Pill went into production. So THAT'S why there's no such thing as freshwater fish!

... wait. [deleted] Just between us, I'm starting to suspect that the whole story might be just made up. [deleted] Duh, they fished. Salt water for fresh water? Brackish duh! All the water was mixed and then "must have" been naturally filtered someway to have some fresh water when the flood drained somewhere. IT'S SCIENCE GOD DAMN IT!  The Lions filtered it through their manes. (Or did that thing I can't really remember from science class with plastic bottles and a tshirt...) And all the herbivores ate kelp. Don't forget the fact that the arc was supposedly a boat the size of the titanic made out of wood. It would basically collapse under it's own weight. This is why large boats only became possible *after* they started being built out of metal. The unfeasibly large wooden boat was held together by the animals love of god, idiot. Yeah, but like, God and stuff. Duh.  They sustained themselves with the love of baby jesus. I came here to point out that they said similar.  That implies evolution. Cue 'micro' versus 'macro' point by creationists. You are well versed in the the art of bullshitology. I've been listening to this stuff far too long. As have I my friend.  if I had to count,  I'd say almost 20 years. http://i.imgur.com/r5kkXev.jpg Say I'm on a planet with an endless ocean, and I and a friend are trapped on a giant raft of trees on the planets equator.  Now say the ocean currents are taking two different parts of the raft in different headings that vary by only one microarcsecond.  How long before the micro difference in raft headings has brought each raft to the north and South Pole of the planet respectively?  Assume currents are always in the same direction and parallel to the equator and assume a current speed of 1km/hr and an equatorial radius of 6378 km. show work. After all of us are done chillin' in hell, because currents parallel to the equator would never take you to the poles.... Most creationists believe in microevolution without admitting that macroevolution also occurs. Creationism is about the origin of life; evolution is about the changes in lifeforms.  Personally, I believe in inches, but miles are a fever dream. On this point, they admit microevolution, and to avoid macro, they have to insist on the young earth, so that there can't possibly have been enough time for  macro evolution to take place.

What don't get, is if you ask some of them to suppose that you grant a young earth, but imagine the earth continues to exist for a billion years into the future - they will often just admit that macro evolution might be possible. 

So for common apologists, it seems the lynch pin is getting them to understand the evidence for  an old earth. You don't even have to explain the specific age. Just the bits that make it impossible for the earth to be less than a couple billion.

Harder said than done, but it's worked for me in the past once or twice Have you used the "starlight" example that Neil Degrasse Tyson uses in Cosmos? 

The argument goes that we know there are stars that are more than 6000 light years away, and the fact that we can see them shows that their light has been traveling for at least that long. Extrapolate that to the stars that are much further away, and the logic shows that the age of the earth must be older than "young earth" estimates! 

I can't think of a young earth rebuttal to that...other than obvious magic.

Edit: typo Yeah I used that back in college a lot. I don't recall that working very well. I think because space is so alien, and the size and vastness of the universe is yet another problem for them. I think if your goal is to convince someone, you have to find some underlying lynch pin like above and convince them whilst disturbing as few beliefs at once as you can. You cant just try to convince someone of ancient earth, evolution, the scale of the cosmos, the even ancienter universe (yes, I made up a word), all at once. 

I think for people who are not scientifically literate, the stuff we talk about sounds even more outlandish than the religious stories they have. Add to that . The fact that their stories have morals, and and narratives,  and offer comfort, and it's easy to see why they would find it hard to take our magic over theirs. So i try to fight small amounts of crazy at a time, lest you have to wrestle with everything they know to be true - which is when people start getting offended and taking it personally. 

I haven't bothered really engaging people in this kind of debate for years though. It just got boring.  I moved to debating with atheists, about atheism actually - which is weird but was slightly more interesting.

This reminds me of an argument I had once where the young earth creationist argued that the world couldn't possibly be that old because mountains would have been worn away by erosion by now. While hysterical,  I found it smart point to make, given that persons lack of knowledge about geology. At least they were looking for patterns and evidence.

Edit: spelling you dream _big_ my friend... ***BIG*** But not heathen big, right? I mean, let's tone it down The journey of a mile starts with a single step.  Does a journey of a kilometer start with 0.621 steps?  Most creationists I've encountered say God created every species just as it currently exists.  No microevolution even.   All of the "big names" in creationism believe in "microevolution". They have to because:

a) it is easily observed in a lab

b) otherwise you need millions of species on the ark

http://www.biblicalcreation.org.uk/scientific_issues/bcs052.html

https://answersingenesis.org/noahs-ark/how-could-noah-fit-the-animals-on-the-ark-and-care-for-them/

People who do not need to think about question 1 and 2 above do not need to admit to "microevolution". Microevolution without macroevolution makes sense in the context of creationism, since 6000 years isn't enough time for macroevolution to take place. But if we're going that route, it's not enough time for the broad sort of microevolution they'd need to have happen, either. 

The mammalian genome's mutation rate, for one, is about 2 bases changed per billion every year. In 6000 years, that gives an upper bound of 24000/1000000000 bases different between two lineages evolving in completely separate directions. That's 0.0024% divergence, far, far less than you see in even closely related species. Recall that humans and chimps have 1% divergence. Here's a helpful hint, there's only one kind of evolution. Macro is literally the same as micro.  From YECs, though, the question - and thus the "difference" between the two categories - stems from the amount of time "creation" has had to change itself.

It is an absolutely tortured, pitiful argument... but that's where they're planted their sad ever-shrinking flag-of-the-gaps. And how the hell are these animals going to survive on floating trees in an endless ocean across thousands of miles?  It's very simple, you see, the huge amount of rain made the oceans' water sweet enough to be somewhat drinkable. That same sudden change in water salinity killed many sea creatures whose dead corpses fed the animals during their cruise.

Checkmate /s You just need a hug from the Pope.  I can just imagine a giraffe doing that log rolling thing. Also: salt water. Try surviving on that for more than a day! Bill Nye did say that any plan submerged by a flood for a year would not survive. Imagine a tree underwater for a year..yuck. You are WAAAAAY overthinking this. Just have faith man!  Another thing I thought while looking at that map was "Doesn't this also support the idea that all the continents were together at one point since the 'similar species' are in places where the continents fit, which indicates that the world is a lot older than 6000-10,000 years?" They cover that elsewhere. Plate tectonics happened, but they all moved over like, 40 days, during the flood. The central hypothesis of creationism is a deus ex machina. Why do they use another one (the flood) for everything except the creation of life?  I think they try to keep it to a simple central starting point. Plate tectonics are a thing, so they go with the "it all happened really fast" take instead of the "it was created misleadingly" You seem to be under the impression that there's actual logic behind creationism. "B-but the Bible is right because it says so, right?" Why do you even bother asking ques How would they navigate a boat through millions of logs? What did the animals eat? If the flood was meant to kill all humans but noahs family, why couldnt the humans use the rafts to? why didnt the trees rot? How do similar plats get places? SO MUCH WRONG. What did they eat, while on these rafts, presumably for months as they slowly drifted across the oceans. And that's how Arthur Pendragon, King of the Britons, got his coconuts. I didn't know we had a king, I didn't vote for him You don't vote for king, he was made king when some watery tart threw a sword at him. I thought we were an autonomous collective We're an anarcho-syndicalist commune. We take it in turns to sort of act as a sort of executive officer for the week. But all the decision of that officer have to be ratified
at a special biweekly meeting. Ee's de only one asn't got shit ole over 'em.  I thought it was two swallows working together? African or European? I don't know that. Auugggghhhhh!!! It could grip it by the husk! Are you suggesting coconuts migrate? Not at all, they could be carried. Are you suggesting coconuts don't migrate? I don't understand how Ken Ham's only point in the Bill Nye debate was, "how do you know, were you there?". Then him and his cohorts make these rampant speculations with no evidence whatsoever to back them up. It's unbelievable I think the best response is "Yes, I was there". Indeed, because they can't contradict that, they already admitted they weren't there.  Prove he wasn't.  &gt;"how do you know, were you there?"

How does the judge, the jury, the prosecution, the defense, the police, the CSI, etc, figure out and solve a crime if they were not there to witness the crime? Usually by finding a pubic hair with a black light. I can't wait til Ken Ham starts using 6000 year old animal pubes as evidence to support his claims.  By using pre-drawn conclusions to help with inventing things that "must have" happened. You don't watch much Christian CSI, do you? &gt; I don't understand how Ken Ham's only point in the Bill Nye debate was, "how do you know, were you there?".

Also, "you see, we have this book..." Bill's response should have been, "Well, look Ken. We have shelves and shelves of books in this place called a *library.* Read one of them that's not the fucking bible and learn something!"

But I guess that's not really professional debating. And we all know Bill's a pro... nay, a master debater. &gt; no evidence whatsoever

please. It's the the *BIBLE* duh And the bible says everything in the bible is right!  I know the Good Book's good because the Good Book says it's good. I know the Good Book knows it's good cos a really Good Book would. How much good could a Good Book good if a Good Book could good? Tim Minchin &lt;3 hahaha Except that the bible mentions nothing of this, and much of his "theories." You have to read between the lines man. But not too much in between the lines because the bible is a literal account. It's called equivocation.

Ken Ham: "See how silly this evolution is?  It's purely blind faith!  Evolution is a religion!  Now, if you'll open up to Genesis Chapter 1, we'll discuss the one true blind faith." A picture of Ham with this quote needs to be posted onto this display. And all the other displays in that museum as well. It's because the Bible says what they want to believe, so they make shit up to validate it. I thought the whole point of the flood was to kill everything and start over? Everything but whales, ducks and similar creatures that could float or swim. Sure, adding a 5.5 miles thick layer of water wouldn't affect the water animals at all. "Every living thing that moved on land perishedbirds, livestock, wild animals, all the creatures that swarm over the earth, and all mankind. Everything on dry land that had the breath of life in its nostrils died. Every living thing on the face of the earth was wiped out; people and animals and the creatures that move along the ground and the birds were wiped from the earth. Only Noah was left, and those with him in the ark." So then what did those animals eat when they got off the ark?  In fact, what did they eat when they were *on* the ark, considering a lot of those animals only eat other animals?  

It makes you realize the people who wrote the Bible weren't the brightest bulbs on the tree and didn't think through this very much.  It's not some exotic knowledge that wasn't known to them at the time, they knew animals ate other animals.   I see the argument of "God made sure they lived" in your future  I guess fish don't exist, as they aren't listed in any of those categories. 'living thing on the face of the earth' maybe, but they're underneath the water, so... Yeah, this seems to contradict the flood story. All animals except those on the ark died in the story. Funny how they're so desperate to preserve the bible they end up debunking it. The kangaroos were anti-social, they all banded together and went to OZ. The convicts of the animal world [You definitely don't want to fuck with them](http://i.imgur.com/6xvMX88.jpg) You are [damn](http://i.imgur.com/rytHAMW.gif) right. [They don't fuck around.](https://pbs.twimg.com/media/BEzehydCAAArlrN.jpg) Is he flashing gang signs? There's a thought.  Maybe the other animals didn't like them and had them deported.

As likely a theory. This is similar to the inane argument that the flood created the Grand Canyon. OK, so if it did why is there only one canyon of that size in the entire world if the entire planet was covered with water? 

Creationist arguments never -- pardon the pun -- hold water.  Well because obviously the flood waters over the entire planet drained through that one specific area in Arizona. To...uh...somewhere. Haven't you seen Journey to the Center of the Earth? There's like oceans and stuff in the core of the planet. That's where all the water went. /s There is another huge canyon in greenland under the glaciers. I believe it is bigger than the grand canyon. On mobile at work so no source. Two! Two canyons! Ah! Ah! Ah! 

/count von count voice

Anyway, doesn't substantiate the flood myth.  Source, just wait three years and we will all see it. Weren't all but two of each dead? By the time their offspring would have been able to take these convenient water taxis, the logs would have...

Why bother. The record time for an *ocean liner* to cross the Atlantic is about three and a half days.  All these animals are somehow going to drift across the ocean on a log before they dehydrate/starve? **sssshhhhh** ^*jesus* Yeah, isn't that interesting? 

The funny thing is that there is all kinds of evidence that rafting does happen and that animals somehow do live for long periods of time at sea. 

For instance, [rats](http://www.galapagos.org/about_galapagos/mammals/) on the Galapogos islands almost certainly got there by rafting. True and you likely know this already, but the chance of a rafting incident working for any individual animal is fairly small. Microscopic afaik, but with a large enough population, enough 'tries' and enough time - more than a few thousand years - pretty much inevitable that one representative of a species will make it and quite possible more.

More than one (the pair, in fact) for so few animals for so far in one shot? Better to put all my money on red 20. Over geologic time even rare events happen regularly. Which of course makes the creationist's views seem veryyyy awkard, since they require a lot of very rare events to happen regularly. Don't forget that the geologic time scale is only about 7000 years. Rats tend to be astoundingly hardy critters, esp. around water...panda bears, roos' and  koalas not so much. At least now. Maybe they were awesomer' back then. 

And Jebus. "Similar"  animals and plants? Why aren't they _identical_?  Do you mean that after centuries of separation these species.. what's the word.. that thing when species gradually change over time due to environmental influences... Yes, but that's not evolution, it's just variation within their own "kind"! /s The main thing I always got from this image:

"Science is nonsense because God says so"

"How can we use scientific theories to make our ideas look credible?" And the ones who couldn't make rafts were carried to other continents by Magic Fairies. Really bro? Get real. They used the floating trees to make catapults. Its in the bible. Pegasus, dude. Get it right.  That place is intellectual poison. ~~intellectual poison~~ a comedy goldmine. "God put dinosaurs on earth to test our faith"

"God put you on this earth to test my faith, dude" Good philosophy, see good in bad, I like. ISIS must be *hilarious* to you guys.
 : D "You are fired!" :( Someone should seriously take pictures of everythingin the "museum" and post here, I will guild you for the laughs OK, omw there brb.

Edit, Ok I'm back, here it is:

http://www.reddit.com/r/atheism/comments/1qnlvy/i_documented_my_journey_through_the_creation/

http://www.reddit.com/r/atheism/comments/zdbcn/my_brother_and_i_went_to_the_creation_museum_in/

You owe me something. Can I just point out that natural rafts are actually credited with the transportation of animals to places like [Madagascar](http://news.nationalgeographic.com/news/2010/01/100120-mammals-madagascar-rafting-lemurs/)?

[In real science](http://scicom.ucsc.edu/publications/essays-profiles-pages/essay-lee.html). I'm sure this is where their inspiration came from.  It would be fine if only it weren't surrounded with ridiculous biblical bullshit. This kind of crap sounds like a joke someone made off-the-cuff and a creationist overheard it thinking it was valid explanation.  Religion, where Occam's razor does not apply. It doesn't apply if you start from the pre-supposition that your answer is right, and address the facts from there. Why would they be similar plants and animals, and not the same plants and animals? Unless maybe they **evolved** into something different but similar after they made their special log rafts and traveled across the ocean without food or drinkable water. Because, uh... shut up, heathen! One thing I don't get. They're obviously concocting this nonsense for an audience that will bite on anything as long as it confirms their backward world view. Why don't they just cut to the chase and say that their god teleported the animals and plants back home after the flood?

There had to be some violations of the laws of physics to get animals from all points of the globe *to* the boat, why slack on the after party? Divine teleportation makes as much sense as tigers surfboarding to Africa on trees. It also lets them bypass tricky questions about how the animals survived and how breeding pairs managed to get to the same places on the same continents.

Magic has already been introduced into the story, why not use it as  a continuing explanation? They could start tying this shit to quantum physics and string theory to retain the veneer of "scientifical explanations" that they try to paint their nonsense with. Keeping an open mind is one thing, but down-right pulling "logic" out of your anus is something entirely different. Why? How? And who let this guy write something like this? Makes me insanely sad that some people actually will nod their heads in agreement and become offended if someone brings up another point, like "Hey, how could something that weighs over a couple tons ride a tree log thousands of miles without food or water? Haven't humans died in boats for just being afloat for days with the same conditions?" *entire crowds gasps in utter disgust* 

Thanks OP for making me depressed. I'm going to curl into a ball and cry now.  &gt;it must have

There it is, the proof we've been looking for. All Darwin had to say was "It Must Have" and those danged creationists would have to believe us.  Actually, accidental rafting IS the accepted theory for how some species propagated from continent to continent... seriously, look it up. None of this has to do with the biblical flood, of course. It just explains stuff like how monkeys got from Africa to South America, for example. [Oceanic dispersal](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Oceanic_dispersal), colloquially known as rafting, is a legitimate scientific theory. It's certainly stupid that Creationists are using rafting as evidence for the Flood, but I'm a little disappointed at how many people on this sub are sneering at and ridiculing the rafting theory itself. Still a better wild guess than [volcanic theory](http://www.conservapedia.com/Post-Diluvian_Diasporas) http://replygif.net/i/272.gif Wow. I can at least try to understand the desire to hold onto a belief of a creator who cares about you and makes you feel special and unique and makes death less scary.

But this does none of those things. It is purely anti-science. It's a lie, without any evidence at all, to only *support* their other claims about creationism.

The only thing I despise more than intellectual dishonesty is murder, genocide, rape, and war So how would we have any trees left, or any plants for that matter? Did Noah bring seeds of every plant?

Oh and freshwater fish since they wouldn't have survived living in salt water. Why would a raft move an entire animal species? 

They all decided to stand on a log together for some reason?  This was my favorite part of the Creationism Museum.  Close second was the plaque explaining that the descendants of Adam and Eve didn't commit incest because mind your own damn business you faithless heathen. "Must have" If the animals survived by floating trees (That somehow have come together and coalesced into rafts. Jesus fucking christ does that one give me a headache.) then whats the point of asking some crotchety old bastard to build a fucking ark? It occurs to me how strange it is to see a museum exhibit use the phrase "must have."

Like... all my life, if it's something written in a museum describing the past, it's stated as fact. Seeing a "museum" piece that states speculation just feels weird. they need to re-read the bible

&gt;The Bible says that the rains that created the Noachian Flood lasted for 40 days (Genesis 7:17), that the waters prevailed on the earth for 150 days (Genesis 7:24), and after these 150 days the waters gradually receded from the earth so that by the seventh month and the seventeenth day, Noah's Ark came to rest  Yes, but they are claiming the rafts floated on the regular old ocean for centuries after the flood waters receded. The ocean would still be there. Unless I'm misunderstanding your point. So the theory DOES hold up! Praise the Lord! Must have been really big rafts. Big enough for a breeding population, food, etc. Well not for what they are claiming. They would tell you that only a single breeding pair would be required to float across, which might take a few weeks, I don't know. Even these people believe in what they call "micro" evolution which would explain the small differences in the animals on the other side of the ocean. All super dumb stuff but from what I remember that's the basic YEC take on it. Wouldn't they die of dehydration? Dehydration, starvation, sun exposure, heat stroke, exhaustion, you name it. Logs are bouyant but very unstable. There is no way a large animal is going to be able to stay on one without falling off after days without food, water, and constant exposure to the sun. Animals creating rafts? Shit, talking about making it up as you go along. &gt; Shit, talking about making it up as you go along.

Heh.  It's Creationism dude.  Bit of a pun there. Sssshhh! we call it intelligent design now, *to sneak it past people* The logs eventually came together and stayed that way, which is why the poster called them "readymade" rafts. Obviously the animals didn't make them. 

Because that makes so much more sense. /s No, there was a study done awhile back that proves this.  After long enough in the water, logs naturally come together into large collections.  Then after longer, they tie themselves together.

Then given enough time they create their own self-replicating food sources apparently because that's the only way this ~~bullshit~~ theory could even begin to work. This doesn't make sense.. Of the entire world is flooded than there are no currents like this as all that land is underwater. So those 'rafts' could have floated anywhere. Trying to make sense of the literal Noah account is like trying to fit a brick into a jig saw puzzle.  Rafting is actually a real thing. Just not like this. It's the number 1 theory for why there are monkeys in South America. The theory is that a large enough piece of land broke off Africa and floated across the Atlantic. The theory that ALL the animals did spread around the world like that is just dumb, but the theory itself is true for some animals. See my post [here](http://www.reddit.com/r/atheism/comments/2v7975/sounds_legit_creation_museum/cofc23z) for more detailed informations. I gotta admit, on one hand, it would be pretty fun to be in charge of that museum.  You can have so much fun just making up theories.  I would probably steal a lot of content from /r/shittyaskscience though haha I've debated with creationists who said that evolution doesn't explain how animals got onto islands, such as the Galapagos islands, because it was too improbable that a breeding population of animals could survive such a trip on natural rafts. Talk about special pleading... Instead of making up dumbass non-science stuff, why don't they just say God did it?

edit: added verb. I've always wanted to go here. It would kill me to pay the admission fee but I would get such a great laugh. Hearin' a lot of "if" in this museum. That's some weapons grade stupid right there... Okay. Fine. Let's bite.

The flood happened, billions of displaced trees were left floating in the world's water ways, and they naturally formed together to create a more complex structure like a raft via some random process of vine entanglement.

So now you have animals romping around and finding themselves on these rafts, which manage to just float out to sea from the shore without any power - just following the ocean current.

Now what? How long does it take to raft from Europe to North America following nothing but ocean current? What do the bears eat and drink during this trip? Did they pack a fucking picnic basket? [picanic basket](http://www.tubechop.com/watch/4787085) Funny you bring that up!

There is a Yogi Bear picnic theory out there that is gaining a lot of traction among us WillBelieveAnythingers.

You should come visit us at Christian Academy of Acme University, where just about any series of events are possible! What worries me is that religious parents are taking their kids to this place and filling their heads with this false information. How the hell are we going to progress as a society if we have shit like this? Anyone gonna mention how rafting is an actual thing? They just kinda hijacked it
 Lol, they should rename the entire concept of creationsim to "Sounds Legitism". Wow. This sounds like something I would come up with when I was 7 and taking a biology exam to which I did not prepare because I played Quarantine previous evening. Also the teacher is Rob Schneider for some reason. It's not a million miles away from the prevailing scientific theory of land bridges, before plate tectonics was widely accepted. Obviously this theory falls apart with even a cursory set of questions, but at least it shows thought. Defective thought, but while there is thought of any sort, there is hope. It at least means someone, somewhere involved in this bollocks hasn't lost all capacity for reason and logic. Every creationist museum infographic seems like it was based off of a conversation between two lit people in a bar.   Haha! These people are hilarious, I say we keep them around. Yeah, these animals survived for weeks with no food and water, floating on a slippery piece of dead wood. Makes perfect sense. Well the dinosaurs were probably too heavy and broke the 'raft' and drowned.

Despite half of them having functional wings. This type of place shouldn't be tolerated. This....!!  

This is why I come to /r/atheism.  Not for all the crap about how closed minded everyone else is besides the "true" atheists, but to help me get a better grasp of what exactly everyone else really believes.  It is extremely difficult to get along in this world without knowing who you're dealing with.  And when you finally find out that the people you are dealing with are more whack than anything else you can fathom, you find out that you've lead a very sheltered life ;) Oh for fucks sake. How can people by this crap?  I sometimes think the more down to Earth religious people must super faceplate sometimes I mean, what did they eat on the rafts while they were traveling by the will of the water?  Branches and leaves... and seafood or even each other. And for water they drank the ocean because there was less salt due to all the damn rain. 

It's easy to make shit up when the original premise is so fucking idiotic to begin with. Without looking at the title and subreddit i though first it was the floating plastic islands If plate tectonic had nothing to do with it, why did God create the continents in that way? He could have made the landmass in his image, instead of appearing on a piece of toast. Let's pretend this scenario were plausible for a moment.  The question I have is: What did those animals eat for food while traveling across vast distances on these "tree rafts"? Oh, wow. I'd never seen their explanation for why Pangaea never happened. This is comedy gold. I'm guessing he doesn't pay the $730000, but the taxpayers do. There's no incentive for him to change his behavior. ....And that is the whole point of this: taxpayers were punished by the actions of a vindictive "christian". 
The system sucks. They waste so much of our money already that I just don't care.  Seriously... $730K is a drop in the bucket  when it comes to government spending. At the federal level this is accurate. At the county level this could be a significant amount of money.  At the Detroit level that is a massive amount.  That's bake sale to raise enough money territory. You must make some mighty fine cookies... Technically crack is baked... Well first you'll need your pipes back. This is detroit here.  pipes, "baking," Detroit...  there's definitely $730k in there if you combine them right. It says it went to federal court though.  It was in Michigan's 19th District Court. So state level (the ruling came from a federal court). I think district courts in Michigan work on a break even basis. They charge court fees equal to their operating costs. Therefore, this fine will be paid for by future court cases by increasing the court costs.  Oh, man you're right. 

That's interesting, I didn't know it worked like that. Thanks a lot for explaining it to me. That's like less than 15 minutes of war...which has perpetually been going on since 2003...  Hell, we have weapons used in the war that just 1 shot costs more than that. [Mother of all bombs, initial four cost 14 million per. Not including transportation and drop flight.](http://www.globalresearch.ca/the-mother-of-all-bombs-a-great-weapon-to-use-on-iran-says-us-air-force-chief/29680) It's these bitches who have sex and get pregnant who cost all the money.

. . . Oh, wait. In that case, may I have a drop or two? well thats one event.. your talking about.. akin to one single sale in the military. Not the cost of all these assholes.

also not sure your point.  I am quite sure the funding for waterboarding was quite low in the scheme of things, but that was no reason to not complain or to keep it.


at anyrate, i tend to think of not all spending being the same, and some of the worst spending, is when tax payers have to pay for the fuck ups of their government officials. We get nothing for that but bad press.
 Not sure about this guy, but a lot of judges are elected...if that's the case, the taxpayers chose him... It says right in the article he was reelected for a 6 year term.  By 85 votes. Out of how many?  The article doesn't say.  In some situations 85 votes is nothing, but in other situations 85 votes is a landslide.

EDIT: I found a source.  It was 85 votes out of 20265 total.

&gt; Guerriero lost to incumbent Judge Mark Somers 10,175 votes to 10,090.

http://downriversundaytimes.com/2014/11/28/tony-guerriero-files-for-recount/ Did he run on an anti homosexual platform? And how much semen has he eagerly swallowed?

Edit: does he have a website? Can we all ask him how much gay semen he swallows? TIL semen have a sexual preference. This is reddit. I dont read articles  [But this is reddit]( http://i.imgur.com/8ublWok.jpg) sure but that doesnt negate the problem that making the tax payers pay isnt really that discouraging of this behavior.


while in this case it might be different, you cant always lay the blame at the tax payers if he didnt run on the idea he was going to be a preachy judge.(though i suspect many new about this case  when he was re-elected) but you can also deny someone the right to run..which this transgression should deny him the right to sit in the chair.
 "we are a Christian nation" as they like to say. though the atheists and every other religion would like to disagree. The fact they are elected,  like any other politician doesn't mean that should not be personally accountable for the illegal or  unconstitutional things they do...
In case of police brutality,  we, taxpayers pay to the victims, not the officer,  and in few cases he is fired.
Public employees belong to unions, that make all that crazy stuff posible. Judges are elected, right? Taxpayers continue to vote him in.  So don't re-elect him then? Clearly he's supported by his electors and they all think it's a crusade against evil. 
I could care less if he thinks the earth is 10K years old, I care about him doing his job as a judge and within the constitution. Praying from the bench is not the big offense, it's firing a woman for not agreeing with his religious point of view. That's twisted. The system FAILS to see that this man should not be in public office anymore and shuts up "the little" guy with money - our money. Yep, this is why he should be disbarred. But whatever, this is the fucking world we've created. Serenity now! Just like the police.  Million dollar judgements mean a million less dollars for the general public's benefit while the department doesn't see a dime less in budget and the offending officer doesn't see a dime less in pay.  In fact the officer most likely gets paid OT for his time in court.  What a lovely system. Can she now initiate a civil proceeding against him? The way it turned out, there is an incentive for a Judge and his colleague to collude to let this happen again. The judge should be barred from serving as a judge, since he doesn't seem to know the Law. I'm sure he knows the law, just assumed there was no possibility of being held accountable for his actions. The fact he's still a judge indicates that assumption was correct. That's probably it right there. 

This judge should be reduced in rank to someone that is not in a position to judge people. 

He appears even more foolish by his lack of subtlety. Ergo, he's not deserving that high position.  I thought most judgeships were elected positions. I could be very wrong, I have no idea. It depends on the state. In my neck of the woods, the Governor appoints judges after the candidates have gone through a long vetting process and background check. I can't imagine how a judge can freely and fairly dispense justice without worrying about unpopular decisions that could cost him a reelection. 

In addition, the article states that Judge Somers staffed his court "with people he got along with." Generally speaking, ability and character (and so on) are better reasons to appoint staff.  While this may be true, even if elected there are ways for a judge to be impeached. Whether or not this rises to that level is a specific legal question, but it is still a possibility. Politics is also a serious consideration.  This one is:
&gt; Judge Somers was recently reelected to a six-year term on the court by 85 votes. I thought that depended on jurisdiction and which court. Has anyone ever elected a traffic court judge? yes, in CA we elect all of them for the lower levels even traffic court. Judges should have a 2 term limit. His mentality probably goes along the lines of "Here I am God. I am the law."  ... I am flabbergasted that even though this judge was found to have violated a constitutional amendment, he still serves.  &gt; I'm sure he knows the law,

I'm sure he assumed he would get away with it. He was right, the taxpayers had to pay for his stupidity. Seriously, how this doesn't get him censured while they proceed with disbarring him I am for a loss. &gt; Judge Somers was recently reelected to a six-year term on the court by 85 votes.

Not only is he not barred, he's still getting reelected. I think this is the most jarring piece of information! I can't think of anything else to say but... Jesus Christ! ;) People deserve this shit. If voters paid more attention, judges like this would be voted out, at least in states with retention elections. Due to voter ignorance and apathy, more than 99% of judges, once elected, [will be retained until retirement.](https://books.google.com/books?id=hijkcWi-48IC&amp;pg=PA64&amp;lpg=PA64&amp;dq=judge+retention+rates&amp;source=bl&amp;ots=pCS5Zowr3H&amp;sig=WLUMwhCO9O6XzX219s5KerzkyoI&amp;hl=en&amp;sa=X&amp;ei=SGDlVLynBYiYyQTZ5oCgCg&amp;ved=0CGEQ6AEwCA#v=onepage&amp;q=judge%20retention%20rates&amp;f=false) People love to complain about bad judges, but they almost never hold them accountable. That's assuming his voters don't agree with what he did and said.  Hard not to be apathetic when the only people who bother voting in local elections are old farts.  I'm literally the only person I know in my work/social group/family who voted in our last local elections.  What did my one vote do vs the hordes of retirees?  Nothing, which makes me not even want to bother next time.  The only reason I had time was because I was unemployed at the time, now I would have to take time off, and I just don't see it being worth it. Your vote counted exactly as much as theirs did. It's one drop in a rainstorm, but without drops there isn't a rainstorm. It's the "oh it's just my one vote, it doesn't matter" attitude that ironically has such a gigantic impact on politics. Tell that to the rest of my age bracket (mid twenties), because for every one of us that votes, 100 don't, and it makes us that do feel hopeless. Voter apathy is a huge problem. The only solution I can see is to not be apathetic. I get psyched about voting and I try to get others excited about it, too. [deleted] Heh, I understand that it sounds new agey and like hippie bullshit, but it is literally true. The voters who don't vote out of feeling powerless represent a far larger and more powerful voting block in many areas than all other extant political bodies. The thing is, that even if every single 20 something voted, there are so few of them that it won't sway any election more than a single percentage point.

The babyboomers are *that big* of a generation. Factually incorrect. How so?

The population of the U.S. is 318.9 million.  The portion of that population born between 1945 and 1968 is 160.2 million.  That's more than half. From where did you get your statistics?

Edit:
You're confusing the number of people born during that time period for the number of those people who are still alive. There are not 160M boomers alive today; there are less than half that many. Source:
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Demographics_of_the_United_States

Age 50-54: 22,298,125

Age 55-59: 19,664,805

60-64: 16,817,924

65-69: 12,435,263

Total number: 71,216,117 From http://www.census.gov/.

Baby boomers as of 2010 include the age range of 42 - 69, their total alive as of 2010 for that age range is 160.2 million. http://lmgtfy.com/?q=baby+boomers&amp;l=1 Those old farts have been voting long enough to know that if they don't show up, the other people will outnumber them. I saw it as more of a social gathering at a new locale that wasn't the bingo hall than anyone actually voting with a purpose. I mean, let's be honest here, if it weren't for Reddit, how many people would know about this story? Where do you even have to go to check out a judge's track record? I don't even know where to begin being informed on this stuff. How are people supposed to be held accountable for electing judges when there's really no way to tell who's good and who isn't.  Chances are, the people that voted for him also agree with his actions. those who vote would probably tend to agree with his views, and his proselytizing. Judge not lest ye be judged? ...and demonstrates poor judgement. "I AM THE LAW" - Judge Mark Somers Exactly! He has shown he has an extreme bias in his rulings if he is "preaching the bible from the bench". He may be prejudice to anyone he sees is not following his beliefs of what right and wrong is and they have to coincide with the bible, not the law. I wonder how he would side on cases about abortion, gay rights, etc... This is what he thinks of the law http://youtu.be/wvJiYrRcfQo &gt;The judge should be barred from serving as a judge, since he doesn't seem to know the Law.

in many states, including Michigan, Judges are elected.  That makes it somewhat difficult to remove them from office.  The best you can do is get them reversed on appeal. 

That's the downside of Judicial elections.  The downside of appointments is political cronyism.  Do as I judge, judge not what I do. &gt;Judge Somers was recently reelected to a six-year term on the court by 85 votes.

How is this even possible??? Free and open elections and an ignorant and unenlightened populace. And I'm betting a fair amount of his constituency approves of his preaching from the bench. These Defendants Need Jesus! lord er' mercy! that raised my eyebrows too

Only reciever 85 votes?  Won by 85?  I bet lots of small elections like local judges have almost zero turn out rate
 Reelected by 85 votes means he had 85 more than his closest competitor. The idea of electing judges is beyond ridiculous. How else would you get a judge?  Appointed by one man?  At least the population has a say this way. Well.. The old people, anyway. Is there some kind of judge watch website that gives overviews of judges so people can actually vote for them with some information?  I never have any clue who to vote for when it comes to judges.  How does anyone else unless they are informed?  I think that would be a very helpful site to have.  Anyone with ideas on how to gather this data if it does not exist?  Maybe it is time to make it myself.
 The same way it was possible for a majority of the shit-show we have in Congress to be re-elected. But the judge not only kept his job but got promoted in the process.  It is painful to upvote this.
 I was embarrassed having to type it. I know your pain.  Lady should get hired by the courthouse again and turn him in again. &gt;  but got promoted in the process.

What are you talking about.
&gt;So when Judge Somers was promoted to chief judge of the court, he got his revenge and fired Julie Pucci.

He used the promotion to fire her, he didn't get it after the fact. He was promoted in the process of his proselytizing from his bully pulpit. Then used it to punish the person while being elevated and reelected for his illegal, unethical activities. I'm not being a smart ass but what did you take away from the story? Your comment is misleading, you make it sound like he got promoted after this event, which he did not. The other guy is just pointing that out. Maybe you should edit your OP and just admit its a bit misleading. Why did this have to be about her first amendment rights?  Surely this should have been about abuse of power, with a judge using his senior position to mete out personal vengeance.  I know they're calling this a win, but I'm pretty depressed about the outcome. Here's the thing, the first amendment rights are the main thing that makes this a case at all. He can fire whoever the heck he wants to unless the decision is based on a protected class or activity. I'm not saying that doesn't suck, but that's what it is. He got shamed because of what she reported, and he retaliated against her. That's a no-no.  It really sucks that the judge still has his job. As a reminder: it is the belief of most Christians that following Christ makes you a better person. Easy for them to believe that when they define "being a better person" as believing in Christ... "Such a nice Christian boy"

I hate that phrase, but it gets thrown around a lot. I know plenty of terrible people who happen to be religious.  Ostensibly my 2 housemates, the dishonest, violent, drunken, homophobic, racist thief and the hypocritical bisexual co-dependent enabler with a biracial daughter who terrorized me with a serrated 10" kitchen knife for nearly 10 minutes 2 days ago for criticizing his horrible friend for all of his transgressions which include assaulting me on numerous occasions (but he's such a drunk and I'm in fairly good shape that I was never in any real danger, I just don't want that unhygienic asshole touching me because he digs in garbage for booze money and doesn't bathe for days). You should move.  Been trying. Look at my comment history. Complete rundown of how I had a similar situation happen 3 years ago and I am just recovering from it and am literally 2 weeks from having enough to at least get another crappy bedsit.

edit: But it means I have to put off upgrading my RAM for a few more weeks as well. Well, if I can move back into the city I can get a temp job during daylight in downtown and do my freelance in the evenings to keep my options even more open. It just sucks that my friend got a new place last month: if this would have come to a head then - the enabler hadn't gone off the rails until 2 days ago - I would have moved in with him. Maybe he has a basement or something and I could help bring down rent... I didn't go to the housewarming because the blizzard hit and the snow hasn't left since (it's over 20 miles away). Or get a 12" kitchen knife.  You need to find new living arrangements. Because, wow.  &gt; Been trying. Look at my comment history. Complete rundown of how I had a similar situation happen 3 years ago and I am just recovering from it and am literally 2 weeks from having enough to at least get another crappy bedsit.

 I hope you find a new crappy bedsit soon. :) And I hope it won't be that crappy.  I've been getting ready. I have over $100 in PayPal, a bunch of points from beermoney sites that don't do PayPal I haven't redeemed for giftcards yet, and I grinded my Swagbucks to the point where my account has been suspended for address verification. Then I have something I could sell for 50% of its value, but I'd rather wait to see if I can get 75% or maybe just grind more by the end of the month. I figure if I can get $300 for a bedsit and $100 for moving I could use the storage garage which is in arrears since I told the hypocrite to get his moldy stuff out of there since nothing of mine is in there and he was supposed to have his stuff out of my storage... 15 months ago. When my original lease ended. But I had to keep open because he has his daughter's stuff in there, but I doubt any of it fits her anymore, and the fact that I found half-eaten food while cleaning out the stuff which I picked up from storage and which he never sorted through even when packing and just threw things in boxes... sigh. Why was the daughter's biraciality relevant? Being included in such a list of negative traits makes it sound like you think that having a biracial daughter is also something that counts against this person. "Good God-fearing Christian" really bothers me too.  "don't kill your neighbor, stone to death the adulteresses."  That should probably disrupt your credence in literally judging the actions of others when your entire moral compass is derived from a religion that the people you are judging may not necessarily follow. Umm, no? My moral compass is obviously right, it doesn't matter if they disagree or not. /s &gt; following Christ makes you a better person.

Harry Potter is more moral.

Fred Rogers was more real and more moral. Well, Fred was a Christian, and Harry Potter is fictional so he didn't have a choice.

 Rasputin is rumored to have belonged to a Christian cult, which ritualized periods of "intense sin." So, basically, they would throw these huge debauchery parties and afterwards, beg God for forgiveness. They claimed their sins "got them closer to god."

I find a lot of modern Christians to be like this. Their faith becomes nothing but a license to sin, a pedestal for them to perch themselves upon and a pulpit from which to persecute. But Christ was actually a decent guy, they instead follow the hateful bastards from the old testament.  

 Nobody knows what Jesus was really like.  The accounts of him conflict sharply.  He may have been a firebrand rabble rouser, he may have been the 'lamb'.   The general image though, is pretty solid, even if they don't know what percentage of it was fictional. The big thing is that no human is nice enough to have a religion after them, regardless. Re-read your first sentence and try again. You don't know that. &gt; even if they don't know what percentage of it was fictional

100%. Is this the same guy who flipped tables at temple? But he was full of *righteous* indignation! That justifies it! Duh! What was with the pigs and the figs - and his mother? &gt; But Christ was actually a decent guy

[Jesus never existed](http://redd.it/2pyjqe) Yes I realize that it's up for debate if he existed.  But what was written made him seem decent, right?  Feeding the poor, healing for free, etc.

 The problem with this is that the 730,000 will more likely come from tax payers, when it should come the judges estate.  But elected officials don't have responsibility! Everyone else is responsible for them being there so WE should pay! AMIRIGHT?! 

I really really hate our system of government sometimes.  So let me get this right:

Judge does something illegal, and fires whistle-blower.

Whistle-blower sues, and judge loses.

Judge keeps job, whistle-blower does not.

Whistle-blower is awarded money paid for by the taxpayers, not the judge.

----------------------
The judge is the winner here, he got to fire the person who reported him, keep his job, and continue doing as he pleases.

Meanwhile, the whistle-blower is out of a job.

And taxpayers are out $730,000. USA...USA...USA,

It's very sad. Of course the cocksucker gets reelected. Fuck this country. https://www.reddit.com/r/atheism/comments/2wcumh/court_employee_awarded_730000_after_she_was_fired/coqf9b0 So this poison spewing judge is still holding a job and even got a promotion? What is the point of the whole ordeal than? The sad part is that this settlement will be paid out from some general tax fund instead of the judge's own pocket. So realistically and monetarily the judge gets off with a small slap on the wrist, keeps his job, she has lost her job, and the citizens will probably re-elect him after this 6 year term because too many people don't hold officials accountable for their actions during elections. So what have we learned from this in the end? That if you hold power you can do whatever you want and not have to be responsible for your actions. It's bullshit just like people making $27 million a year (Mitt and Ann Romney) paying an effective tax rate of 15% while I paid almost 20% and make roughly $65k a year. 

source: http://www.cnn.com/2012/04/17/opinion/brown-progressive-tax-rates/ I feel like it's getting to be more and more common for the government or a corporation to pay someone off to shut up and let the religious nuts do whatever they want. Why is this so acceptable?  It's God's will. Manifest destiny. Because nobody has the balls to "fix" the problem Dear Batman, please become real and take down all these scumbags. ~~Batman~~  **Rorschach** Batman, Rorshach and the Punisher should become real and team up.  I'd rather have Nighthawk than Batman for that lineup. Nighthawk would have no qualms with killing wrongdoers. Spawn. [Batman is a conservative's wet dream](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8l1PMVvfjDM) He would have to become real and clone himself 5000 times. Only one batman is needed.  We don't have supervillains for him to continuously arrest and let escape, so he'll actually be effective.  Replace the main FBI special detective guy in Hannibal with Batman and you've got a show. I'm pretty sure he could manage it with his extensive resources :) that judge should have to pay that fee out of his own pocket.
 [deleted] Not that I'm disagreeing with you, but does the article even say she's an atheist? That's why I'm glad I live in a country where Judges are neither elected or politically appointed. I keep reading this shit, day after day, same old shit...

Christians themselves, who say they're constantly attacked for shit, need to take these assholes to task. Fuck.  OMFG.

&gt;Judge Somers appealed that decision, claiming he "did the right thing" by staffing his court with people he got along with. 

Wow, I bet those southern judges in the 40's enjoyed doing this as well. Serious question: why is judge an elected position in the US? How does that even work?  Indeed, it seems to be a brach of the separation of powers.  
Makes judges political. Idiocy. Nice pay day, I hope she sends the judge a thank you letter. OK, and how much of that is the - it's former, right? - judge going to have to pay? What about all of his cases? Invalidated and vacated, right?

No, and the ACLU and FFRF need to get him JAILED for being a CRIMINAL, which he is. Someone explain to me how it makes sense that a judge is an elected position?  I'm amazed they found a jury smart enough to actually do the right thing. Judges are often re-elected because no one puts the time into researching them and votes for the incumbent. In my county we recently re-elected a [female judge who told a woman that she was partly to blame for a drunken ex-cop feeling her up in a bar, telling her that "if you wouldn't have been there that night, none of this would have happened to you."](http://azdailysun.com/news/local/govt-and-politics/elections/harris-challenges-hatch-in-superior-court-race/article_ea79ec21-b362-5f65-b9db-dd8eba6267b0.html) What's the reasoning in the States that makes it seem like a good idea to elect judicial officials? 

It seems pretty obvious that you would have people making decisions not based in the rule of law but based on whether or not its popular with voters. This right here is why i don't complain about how Judges are selected in my country(Brazil). It's a four-step process: 1. insanely difficult multiple choice exam 2. even more difficult written exam 3. an oral questioning 4. points are awarded based on titles (masters, doctorates, etc.). In some cases, there are 100 positions open, and only 10 or so candidates manage to be approved through the grueling process. Has its flaws, but i believe it's more fair, since literally anyone with an intricate knowledge of the law and the appropriate degree can become a judge, regardless of their worldviews. I thought this was interesting:
http://litigation.findlaw.com/filing-a-lawsuit/after-a-judgment-collecting-money.html I'm going to find a judge, tell him to start preaching, and split the money 5050 when I turn him in The government needs to realize that while it may be more painful in the short term, *not* firing/court martialing/banishing whistleblowers is much, much cheaper. In terms of both money and credibility.  Why do they keep voting for him? because faith is brain damage. Not a lot of votes kept the Judge his job.
 I hope they take that money out of his paycheck If you want our secular democracy to support your religion..... gtfo Such justice, except it too 8 years....   What a piece of shit. Judge Dredd would taken this judge to court! false, judge dread is judge, jury, AND executioner. When something like this happens doesn't the state pay the person? yeeeeeeeeeeup Yeah I sadly figured. So now 3/4 of million dollars gets taken from that state for almost no reason. While she isn't at fault for suing her being offended is really not worth that kind of money.  wasn't it reported to her by someone else.  And it was her duty to report it?  
  
  Here is that part of the article.  
"Judge Somers' clerk complained to court administrators that the judge was "literally preaching from the bench". So Deputy Administrator Julie Pucci did her job. She reported the incident to the agency that oversees the conduct of states judiciary." Any lawyers want to clue me in on how they would come to such a settlement?  Seems large for her pay grade.  (Serious question) &gt;Judge Somers was recently reelected to a six-year term on the court by 85 votes

That's the sad part of this article.

So basically the voters in Michigan don't care that they have a judge who either doesn't know the law / constitution or doesn't feel it applies to him. And stupid me thought the American judiciary was the most transparent of American institutions. Meanwhile, the judge is still there and goes unpunished. What kills me is Dearborn is 5 minutes from my house and like the article says it has one of the largest Muslim populations....That this Christian judge gets elected and then re-elected....there's more shady stuff going on than just the wrongful termination. And of course the judge is still there and was just re-elected for another 6 years. I love our judicial system sometimes, don't you?  That's not even that much... That was her salary that she should have received over the past 8 years after she was fired. Keep in mind that $730,000 doesn't come from the judge in any way.  It comes from the tax payers.  He really couldn't care less except for the damage to his ego and reputation.  We can't allow his reputation to be hurt.  The emperor has wonderful new clothes, of course. what is 'turning in judge'?
 So this lady did her job and still got 70c to $1. Bad joke and the wage gap is a complete myth which used bad statistics which included females who quit their careers forever after either getting married or pregnant and even those who never worked in their entire lives while the majority of the male population works for the majority of their lives. Well, 73c it seems.  Seriously? Because of a verse on a letterhead?  No, because he used his position to take revenge on someone who was doing her job. I know there is a lot more to take away from this story but..... CHA CHING!  Plot twist: she split that tax money with him and thanked him "personally" 

But for realz. 
So because she informed him that probably shouldn't do that, he later fired her.. Seriously was he so mad that this lady spoke against him (sort of) that was prepared to unjustly ruin her life and her family's/kids. And the fact that he's an official is maddening. I hate that shit like this still happens so often and it's 2015. He should have been disbarred and had to pay her from his own pocket or have his pension taken or something. Git owned
 Here is a word cloud of all of the comments in this thread: http://i.imgur.com/dAMZtLI.png  
[^source ^code](http://github.com/Winneon/makeswordclouds) ^| [^contact ^developer](http://reddit.com/user/WinneonSword) ^| [^faq](https://github.com/Winneon/makeswordclouds#faq) Why the hell does she deserve or need that much money? Americans have such a fucking stupid court system. Oh man, math teacher William "Coach" Curtis. If that doesn't scream stories from my childhood I don't know what does.

Half the damn teachers I had were hired to be coaches first, fill an open teaching role second.
 Middle school, "health/math," teacher told the class that `n^0 = 0`.  I dared correct her ("Isn't `n^0 = 1`?").  She told me I was wrong (and no, not like a true mathematician would: "Oh?  Why/prove it," but like I was stupid).  Next day while the class was running the mile she quietly pulled me aside and told me I was right, then chided me for not pushing the matter further.  Apparently she was testing my resolve or something.  She never did correct herself to the rest of the class. &gt; she was testing my resolve 

is not compatible with 

&gt; She never did correct herself to the rest of the class. Should have tested her resolve and called her out on it in class. F'n B.   My teacher did the exact thing with oil and water mixing to become a solution. I was the only one to stand up to it, and she complimented me in my resolve, but failed to correct the class. I had a "math" teacher in college argue with me that the equation "50 = 51" is correct because they are close enough that it dont matter to most people. By that logic, and the transitive property of equality, 51 = 52, 52 = 53, ... 50 = 1 billion. Wow turns out I'm a billionaire, or close enough that it don't matter to most people. Do a proof by induction, instead. You could check in with /r/theydidthemath but I suspect that it is essentially correct. Thats correct, no need to check It's really not that difficult to understand...you can instantly tell it's correct because there is an = symbol between 50 and 1 billion. That = symbol represents two values that are equal, so clearly 50 = 1 billion means the two values are the same. No. He's stating that because they're literally unequal that essentially any number is = 51.
Regardless of the proof, the math teacher should not be saying this to the student unless it's truly satirical. In some languages, there is only one, two, "a lot". Programmers count as following: zero, one, many. Well, if i had 50 bucks.. Wanna trade for my $51? Did I say $51? I mean $49? You should ask him if you can borrow 50 bucks.

Pay him back $49, "well, it's close enough, it didn't matter to me." Then repeat a few billion times... Step 1: hire coach/math teacher

Step 2: ...

Step 3: profit


OH MY GOD YOU GUYS WE FINALLY DISCOVERED STEP 2!!! Steps 2 through 1,000,000,000. But there's 4 steps Step 1: hire coach/math teacher

Step 2: borrow $50, repay $49

Step 3: repeat Step 2 and Step 3

Step 4: Profit As a programmer: No. This will not work, it creates an infinite loop at step 3. It's kind of sad, but I read those steps and my brain raised a red flag until I reminded it I was reading reddit, and not at work. to play devil's advocate are you sure that's the lesson that he was trying to teach? it's not uncommon to round off to make equations easier and having an approximate answer instead of having no answer at all. If that makes any sense.  If you get 50 = 51 *before rounding* then you fucked up dearly, no matter what subject you thought you were studying today. I bet he'd argue that an 89 is not an A... If there are no muslim gods, and no hindu gods, and no jewish gods, and no christian gods...how many gods are there? Just jibbers crabst. Maybe if it's 50.999999999999999999 and 51.  I'd like to see him argue that logic for his $51 ISP bill. Put him in a room with a comcast representative.   Tell that to my bank next time I'm at the ATM and my balance is $19. But 0.99999.......=1 I do believe that college teacher started creationist math.  at my high school they wouldn't hire coaches. so if you wanted to be a coach you had to teach. they also forced all first year teachers to coach. I had a tennis teacher who was like a basketball coach and my math teacher senior year(dumb people math, I am dumb) was forced to coach the girl's volleyball team. "Forced" well from what I heard it was coach or don't teach next year. I think you may have missed the point.   The coaches always do the creepy sex-ed classes.  Mine was a girls basket ball coach who happened to be male. He literally had girls from his team coming into class all day long to hang out on his desk, flirt with him and all kinds of creepy shit.  My head football coach in high school was an "English teacher." I once tried to ask him about a book genre I'd been looking into and he looked at me like he had no idea what I was even going on about. He didn't read books.  That's why we are so ducking retarded when it comes to science. Because schools hire coaches instead of teachers. Does your country not require teaching degrees for teachers? My older brother is a Latin teacher who has a bachelor's in Classical studies. No teaching degree (and he hates children) Yup. Happens all the time, too. &gt;Curtis also reportedly "tried to prove evolution is wrong because Adam and Eve started out as adults when they were on the earth for only a few minutes."

Sorry guys, this will be my last post on /r/atheism. I'm now a creationist. &gt; Curtis also reportedly "tried to prove evolution is wrong because Adam and Eve started out as adults when they were on the earth for only a few minutes."
&gt; 

it just makes way too much sense to be wrong! Is it me or it's a good argument against god since that is entirely not possible. Of course the "made from dirt" is also another argument, but only from this point of view, how can that prove evolution wrong in his mind and not see the bullshit. It's beyond my comprehension. *If man came from dirt, then why is there still dirt?*... You win. I don't think it's really an argument against Gods existence because if the God the bible talks about did exist he'd sure as shit be able to arrange this If you want to fuck with them ask if men and women have the same number of ribs. They will inevitably say no. ( god took a rib from Adam to make eve). Easily falseified plus you can teach about inheritable traits The mentality of believers is to never question anything. As a child growing up Catholic, I couldn't wrap my head around how God could be invisible and everywhere at once... After several talks with nuns and no result, I was then told the biblical tales to scare me shitless, and believed for the majority of my childhood that God would turn me into a pilar of salt or let the locust eat me if I ever doubted again....  Yeah. 


But he loves you... I know a lot of people that have more resemblances to dirt than to apes, does that mean evolution has it wrong? I administer an archaeology group on facebook and we actually had a guy come in saying evolution was wrong and his "gotcha" argument was "We share DNA with Bananas, do we have a common ancestor?" ... In his mind this was rhetorical because how could we share a common ancestor with fruit? Much to his surprise all of us in about 30 seconds posts something similar to "Yes..... Yes we do.." 

I must say, it was rather hilarious.  They dont get "common ancestor" part. He'll think you meant we evolved from a a banana.... Interestingly, the guy was supposedly an ex-priest.  This would imply that he is/was Catholic, or possibly Anglican.  Either way, both of those churches accept evolution.  

I suppose there could be other denominations that use the word 'priest' that don't accept it - I just thought that was a bit ironic. MOST RECENT UPDATE AND EDIT: Taking the advice of a few redditors here I removed the original link. However, I've used google docs to copy the text and remove the names and you can view that version [here](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1gLsnf35ZQEmU6rmjDDbEQi2SQ8To907vTELXWf4VxSA/edit?usp=sharing)

I've also gotten a copy of the school's reponse which you can view [here](https://drive.google.com/file/d/0B-lsLcS9dLQKYzM5ZGh3VFJtUVU/view?usp=sharing)



Edit: Oops! I just realized that they launched this formal complaint in November! I got the email today because my sister's school finally responded to the letter, months later.

Edit:Here's the link to the original post I made when my sister told me this happened: http://www.reddit.com/r/atheism/comments/2jue2z/my_little_sister_was_publicly_humiliated_in_class/

Edit@2/21/15: hey guys I wish I could keep all of you updated easily but my new house doesn't have internet yet. As it stands, the school agreed to an investigation. My guess is that they will probably "investigate" and report no findings unless more students speak up

Edit: the FFRF sent me the schools response. I'll post it tomorrow, I can't do anything on this phone. I'm Also going to try to disrupt the original link until I can fix it tomorrow What was the school's response? Yeah, what are they doing about it? So far it looks like they have waited long enough for witnesses to have conceivably "forgotten" what happened. Next step is a half-assed investigation that proves to be "inconclusive", followed by the teacher receiving a "warning". Then back to business as usual. Nope.  If there is another issue with it, FFRF has documented proof that they alerted the school of the issue and the school did nothing to stop it.

The first time you fuck up, you can claim ignorance of the stuff going on.  If it happens again FFRF can show continual violation of students rights despite being informed of the illegal activities.  The second time, the court will probably mandate they put their teachers through proper training regarding this specific issue.  ie.  All teachers take a class on how they legally need to leave Jesus out of the classroom. True true, and you're giving new life to the justice boner I got from the FFRF letter, but I still expect an underwhelming response to the first offense, based on the three month delay. Considering one of those months was December in which most schools (and some buinsness) are shut down for 2+ weeks and that the letter was marked November 25 (two days before Thanksgiving last year) I would say more like 2 months not 3.  You have to figure post mail takes what 3-7 days so its likely it didn't reach the school till around December 1. So half of December, all of January, and half of February equals two months of actual work time to address the issue, not three. 

Now why do I not count the closing for Christmas?  Because the school is closed so how can they do things like interview students, talk to the teachers (maybe this "coach" has been known to do this to other teachers as well or the teachers have heard him do it in the past), speak with their laywers (who are off), or well just do about anything since everyone who would do anything is off of work?   I think another possibility is they didn't like the advice the first 3 attorneys gave them.

It really depends on if the school board themselves think religion in schools is appropriate.   &gt; The first time you fuck up, you can claim ignorance of the stuff going on.

This part always bothers me. Can they really play the ignorance card before they are prosecuted? If one of my employees slap a kid on the face, for example, I doubt that claiming ignorance would get me free of any responsibility. It's a simple issue of funding.  The FFRF doesn't have the resources to take every first offense to court.

A simple letter to the school will pretty much get the school to voluntarily do what the court would probably require them.  Or at least the extra gain from taking it to court wouldn't be worth diverting funds from legal battles with schools that have multiple offenses.  

Multiple occurrences, after warnings, provides evidence that it is not an isolated occurrence.  This means if the FFRF spends the money to take them to court, they'll probably get much better results than what the school would be willing to do to avoid a lawsuit.  The courts can't just give a slap on the wrist for flagrant *systematic* discrimination.

Now if the roles were reversed, atheist teacher and christian student, christian legal defense funds have enough money to throw 10 lawyers on it right away.  

FFRF really is a David against 10 Goliaths.   http://www.reddit.com/donate

FFRF EIN is 391302520 

Just sayin This makes a lot of sense. Thanks for the explanation. &gt; Can they really play the ignorance card before they are prosecuted? 

well, they aren't prosecuted in a civil claim, first off.

But yes, traditionally suitably large institutions get away with that excuse all the time. It's more useful in that, for the 2nd claim, they can't claim it was an isolated incident either, which is probably more important. Unfortunately, you are spot on. #B2BAU Op plz! Yes, I have to know too. The letter makes a pretty clear cut case in support of the student's rights, but I wonder if that's how things actually turned out. Posted the school's response if you're still interested. The response??? I remember that!  Thanks for giving us an update.  Nobody should be treated as your sister has.  The math teacher was being unprofessional.

Do you have a copy of the school's response, and can you make it public?   I'm afraid the FFRF didn't send me a copy of the school's response, sorry I hope your sister gets some justice from this.  Like everyone else, hearing there's a response is moot until we know what the response was!!! "Ohkay! What sum are we going to moot?!" Hey there, the word you're looking for is 'lodged.' The FFRF *lodged* a complaint, meaning they filed a complaint. They could also be said to have *launched* a campaign, but that doesn't seem to be quite what you meant to say. Why the F didn't OP post the school's response? This is a waste of time and just a repost of his last post on the topic.  What's so hard about just sticking to teaching math? Why is this fucking teacher wasting valuable instructional time on things other than math?  To rub salt in the wound,  he's using a half-assed argument to add legitimacy to his incorrect conclusions. 

You're paying this asshole's salary,  Virginia. You're paying him to not teach math.  It's rural Virginia that girl was lucky a god squad didn't beat her up after school.  It's literally a suburb of DC. Hardly rural VA. 

Edit: somewhere I got that OP was talking about Fairfax, so my bad.  Nope, it's Halifax Co - down near the NC border.  About as rural as you can get in VA without being in the mountains. &gt; What's so hard about just sticking to teaching math?

Considering the "Coach" nickname, I'm assuming this is a case of "We're short on teachers... hey, let's have a coach teach math!", or maybe "We're not allowed to hire someone specifically as a coach (because some people seem to think that school should be about academics rather than advancing a budding sports career for some reason)... so hire this guy as a 'math teacher' who will just happen to also act as a coach."

In my experience (I grew up in a mostly rural Virginia area, so there was a lot of this going on), these types of "teachers" aren't even the slightest bit interested in teaching in the first place. It's not what they're hired for, they're either doing it as an excuse to have them on staff so they can coach, or they're doing it because of a lack of actual qualified teachers. Not only do they not know the subject all that well, they don't really know how to run a class either. The funny thing is that it harder and harder to do this - you have to actually be highly qualified to teach the subject and that means either having the credit hours or passing the knowledge test.  We used to have a ton of social studies teachers who were coaches.  Now it's very rare - I don't know of a single one at my school who is a coach.  They still find places to stick a good coach, if they want to get creative (health, usually). That doesn't sound like it should be legal.  Somehow I doubt that bothers them. But you can't do math without Jesus! /s If he's the kind of person thinks it's a good idea to talk about Jesus during math class, I'd rather he not teach math than fail at it and systematically destroy the mathematical curiosity of his students. I would really like to know the schools response and the actions that have been taken. same RAmen. How odd that a math teacher, who must have asked his students to "show their work/proof" countless times, would be inclined to completely disregard his need to see proof in his personal life. It simply doesn't make sense but then again sense isn't exactly the hallmark of religion.  Lots of math teachers *don't* ask their students to show work/proof, or they might say it once or twice but not grade anyone down if they don't.  I spoke to a middle school match teacher about this once and he said something to the effect of, "Well, I tell them to show their work, but 90% of them don't, so what am I to do?"  (Err, mark 90% of them down, genius!)  Very disappointing, especially for those parents who actually *care* about their children learning math, and need a, "cool math teacher," to back them up in school.

Anyway, remember that, "math teacher," unfortunately doesn't always mean, "mathematician."

EDIT: Grammer, as pointed out.  Thanks! My math teacher always said the final answer is only worth half the question, the other part was the working out. If you had used the correct formula, but you somehow used incorrect numbers, he'd mark it based on the formula (With a note saying how the final answer was incorrect) and give us full marks for the question.

It really did become a valuable thing to memorize the formulas, even when we did get formula sheets on our final exam.  Sounds pretty decent.  IMO mistakes should be worth minor dings at most (depending on how grievous the error and whether or not you could/should have checked your work), not showing your work should result in **zero** credit, and not showing your work adequately enough (skipping steps, not enough for a proof, etc.) should be docked pretty heavily depending on how major the, "magic," you left out was (e.g. Wikipedia should probably get about 50% credit on most proofs).

Gods intervening should obviously be an automatic **zero** credit.  Prove that shit or it's just too much magic.  Sorry. lots* Happy to see something being done!  I read a lot here about the FFRF, but I'm curious, what sort of teeth, precisely, do they have?  What I mean is, if the school were to just ignore the letter, or tell them to to go F themselves, is the next step litigation of some sort?  Would the FFRF specifically represent your sister or just sue the school?  

Hope you get some satisfaction! The next step would be litigation.  The FFRF would have to represent the girl who had the issue.  

If you would like for them to be able to continue to employ lawyers and have the ability to do so, you should consider donating to them.   At the very least, I try to switch off between the FFRF and EFF on Amazon Smile.
 Thanks for the info. Luckily we don't have much call for an organization like this in Canada, but I'm really happy this resource exists where it's needed most! IIRC religion in schools is legal in Canada.  In fact, the government gives money to faith based schools.

Y'alls crazies are just toned down more.  You guys only have about 5% more non-religious people than us.

You should check out [CFI](http://centreforinquiry.ca/). &gt; In fact, the government gives money to faith based schools.



Ontario has a catholic school system that is required by provincial law to exist and to be funded by the province. 

The same isn't true in all provinces. Well at least it isn't all of Canada :) &gt;Well at least it isn't all of Canada :)

Not quite:

&gt;As education is a provincial responsibility, government policy on public funding of religious schools differs across Canada [Wilson, J, 2007; Gillespie, K, 2007; Offman, C, 2007; Oxaal, Z, 2003]. Ontario, Alberta and Saskatchewan still offer full public funding to Catholic schools  a historical artifact originating from denominational privileges enshrined in section 93 of the Constitution Act, 1867. In addition, British Columbia, Alberta, Saskatchewan, Manitoba and Quebec offer partial funding (typically 40-60%) to religious schools of any faith that meet some provincial criteria.

source: http://secularalliance.ca/about/policies/public-financing-of-religious-schools/

.

Still, it is far too much. Private schools really should should be funded privately. We do have separate Catholic schools here that are government funded (definitely not Canada-wide, only Ontario, Saskatchewan and Alberta), but I'm not actually sure if it *is* legal for educators to teach religion in our public schools.

I know I got a teacher in trouble for teaching us some religious aspect in high school, but it may have just been the administration specific to that school. School districts and administrators are extremely sensitive to public attention and criticism. Sure, they might believe they have supporters in any situation, but they *hate* public attention of any kind that isn't as positive as their own press releases and newsletters. FFRF tries to resolve these things with a warning letter but they don't make idle threats. They have sued many districts and won and when they do the school district must pay the legal fees. There are Christian groups that will represent the district for free but they won't pay the districts court mandated legal fee to FFRF when they loose (and they will loose). This leave the school district on the hook. What will they loose?  They may lose but not sure what they will loose. If they loose than it will be looser, but if the school is to lose they will be losers. The flying spaghetti monster where I live they made a school take down 2 plaques. It went to court too. My boss grew up in that town which is why I am a proud supporter. As a math teacher, I was told by a student once that a teacher who doesn't believe in God should not be trusted with kids. It kinda goes both ways. Please, don't think this is every teacher out there.  Yes, thank you so much for reporting it.

If you didn't report it, it would just keep on happening.   Congrats on this, but might I suggest to black out the names and addresses? If this becomes a legal matter, you'll be glad you did so. Oh no! I guess my ignorance on legal matters is showing. I'll try to do what I can to fix it tomorrow when I can get on a computer. I'm upset with myself now  This should be higher up.  You basically doxxed this guy, a big no no.  I'm surprised more people haven't made a stink about it. Most things I read here don't stick around in my memory for very long, but I distinctly remember your original post because of how angry it made me. Thanks for the update. Glad to see something was done about this. I would love to see how many teachers in the southern region of the US would get fired if there were cameras in the classroom. In rural TN, most teachers will automatically assume every kid believes in Jesus and basically preach gospel whenever the topic comes up. They literally don't even feel vulnerable because they know any committee or legal higher ups in the surrounding county are also religious and would find such complaints laughable. I can't even count the amount of personal "miracle" stories I've heard from teachers leading up to the good ole' "One day something will happen and it will cause you to believe in God." It was disheartening and quite frankly oppressive. I personally think that religion isn't worth the distance it creates between humans. No faith/hope in the world is worth more than our humanity as a whole. Can you remember your life before this one? Why assume there is a next one? They honestly believe all of these living creatures are some sadistic test subjects for morality and at the end of it all you are judged based on your performance. That is a direct slap in the face to every living being (even beyond humans) who wasn't given the opportunity to make a choice. Because our brain's #1 interest is being alive and conscious, that's why these stories are created and perpetuated. Some people live happier with the delusion of hope than in the actuality of biology. 

EDIT: [Here's](http://religionincollege.blogspot.com/) a blogpost I made while going to community college about this very subject, my professor told the class he believed in God because of the Fibonacci code and I decided to write a blog about it. Whenever a teacher starts talking about god in a positive/personal way, it influences the students in the classroom. (It kind of makes my blood boil because they don't know the power of their words, not in some aggressive militant atheist way, but it just affects me, like it hurts deep, because the teacher is overlooking my personal opinion and basically invalidating it, and I can't even stand up against it because I know I would get overruled by the majority and silenced.) As a science teacher and christian in the south (AL and TN) I wanted to give you my views on this matter. 

I teach evolution. I do not teach anything about any religious belief that I have; if a students asks about my personal religious beliefs, I tell them to bring that up again outside of class time if they are truly interested. I do understand that because of where I teach, there will be various views on the subject. Most of my students will not "believe" in evolution mainly because of how they have been raised. So when I introduce the topic at the beginning of the year, I have my students do research projects on the many different cultural and scientific views that are out there. I am not there to make up their minds for them; my students are at an age where they should be starting to question their world views and the world views of others, so that they can develop a personalized (and educated) view of the world. 

After the students learn about the different views, I tell them the view that will be taught--evolution-- is due to scientific evidence and that whether or not they believe it, does not mean they are exempt from obtaining the knowledge. To be fair to my students, I have spent time learning the beliefs of many different forms of creationism and intelligent design so that I can at least have an understanding of the different view points that come into my classroom. 

It would be wrong of me not to address the view of my students. It would do no good to just ignore what my students believe, and could cause problems in their learning down the road. I'm not going to "convert" my creationist students during one semester. These are ingrained ideas that stem from indoctrination since birth. What I can do, is help them become more educated and make them begin to think critically about those beliefs. 

Is that to say that all classrooms are run how mine is, no. Lord, no (haha, see what I did there). I remember going to professional development with other science teachers in the state and having to bite my tongue on the topic of evolution. One teacher even boasted about how she gets a sub to teach it now that she is being forced. I wanted to ask her how she taught the rest of her biology course, since everything had a connection to evolutionary concepts. But that was neither the time nor place for a just-starting-out teacher. 

Have hope though. Times are changing. Don't group us southern, christian teachers all together, or just Christians in general. In my graduate education and professional development classes, I have seen a recurring pattern that the older teachers (&gt;40) are anti-evolution while younger teachers (&lt;40) are pro-evolution. If this trend stays true, we will see a drastic change in the next ten years. 

Edit: Before anyone reads this and says that I'm violating any part of the Establishment clause, I am not. My lesson plan is structured in a way that does not violate it in any way. If you want specifics, I can give them, but I feel like this is getting lengthy enough.  Thanks for the input! Yeah I do notice that the younger generation seems to be more open and tolerable about the subject of religion. I love Biology and science and it's crazy to me that teachers can be so educated in biological processes (evolution of cells/mitosis/meiosis etc.) and still deny evolution as a concept. I appreciate and admire your ability to keep everything separate and to be as unbiased as possible when teaching. Also I'll be sure to generalize less in the future ;D. You da real MVP !!

Seriously as a Christian in the UK, the whole creation v evolution v intelligent design etc. Is only a fridge cult style issue - not mainstream at all!! It's true. Fridge cults are a real problem in the states. It's their unchanging chilliness that creeps me out. Whoops!!
Indeed - it's all have an ice day until you get thrown in the chiller ;-) Your welcome! Glad to hear you love Biology and science..me too! 

I just read your edit and I wanted to tell you that I am very sorry you had that experience, esp for your first college experience. I would have felt extremely uncomfortable in the classroom as well. I'm pretty sure math isn't used to justify a belief in God, and that sure as heck wouldn't be what I was expecting from a pre-cal class...that's just silly. =) Seeing that the post was a few years ago, I hope that you had the opportunity to learn under much better instructors.  You sound like an excellent teacher and one that I as an atheist would feel comfortable teaching my kids.  Thank you, I wish that it wasn't even something people and parents had to think/worry about. I think it's fine to admit that there are differing opinions, but that a science classroom is a place for science and if they want a religious perspective then that's what the local Church/Synagogue/Temple/Mosque is for. THIS! I was born and raised in a DC suburb, student taught in a rural area of Virginia.  I'm not shocked by this story at all.  All the parts of rural Virginia are super religious, but only really acknowledges Christianity even though there are other religions present.  I was completely shocked when the middle school put up Christmas decorations in the lobby of the school.  It wasn't anything religion neutral either--Angels, crosses, etc.  I wish organizations like this existed when I was harassed by teachers in public school. Glad to read this update. :) This doesn't cure me of all my anger of having had to deal with overly-religious, biased, terrible teachers when I was a kid in school. But damn, does it feel good to read that at least some students out there today are getting some justice. Hells yes!  Oh. I didn't know that you can't put a disclaimer before teaching evolution. My high school biology teacher did this, but I think it was more to calm down the butthurt christians. Still wrong. Wow I'm so glad I live in a diverse city where you can't upset an entire classroom by stating facts. Where do you go to school if I may ask? My bio classes have all been pretty boring. No butthurt or anything. Just, you know.. teaching bio. :/ Holy fucking shit its Halifax, dude. I graduated last year and experienced similar bullshit going through the school system. So fucking happy something is being done about it! [you should write the FFRF and tell them what you experienced.](http://ffrf.org/legal/report) OP please show the response! Good, hope that fucker gets fired. She should of asked him for a proof of the existence of god, any would do, induction, contradiction, direct, being a math teacher and all.

That's nice to hear, keep us posted. Or she could ask why the bible seems to show pi to be equal to exactly 3.  Since it doesn't say this explicitly, you'd have to do the math...perfect subject for this situation. How could God miss the opportunity to include some digits of pi into the Bible? Five more digits would have been [enough](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Chronology_of_computation_of_%CF%80) to prove that the authors of the Bible had information that went beyond human knowledge. Instead God decided to bore us with the [life spans](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Patriarchs_%28Bible%29) of the patriarchs, and these numbers prove nothing. Plus the authors of the New Testament were educated enough to know Greek. Surely they were aware of the Greek Mathmaticians and could have faked it, but they chose not to.

I would have settled for Jesus saying something like "and that's as true as a^2 + b^2 = c^2..." **5** And seeing the multitudes, Jesus went up into a mountain: and when he was set, his disciples came unto him:

^^2 And he opened his mouth, and taught them, saying,

^^3 *x*^2 + *y*^2 = *z*^2 for all *x*, *y*, and *z* that lie in my Father's kingdom.

^^4 But *x*^3 + *y*^3  *z*^3.

^^5 Nor yet is *x*^*n* + *y*^*n* = *z*^*n* for any *n* &gt; 2.

^^6 Blessed are the meek, for they shall inherit a truly remarkable proof which this testament is too small to contain.

 I'm going to graduate from law school soon.  I think I just found where I want to work. There's just something about a school getting reprimanded that makes me feel all fuzzy inside. Not to exacerbate any regional stereotypes, but can I ask what part of the country? Southern VA. Very rural, poor county.  This is why I support FFRF with financial contributions, they are boots on the ground champions of Atheist rights. they're my Amazon Smile charity So what was the school's response? Thank you for having the courage to take action!  You are moving the whole world forward with your small step. Ignoring the fact that religious beliefs have no place in a school, why would a math teacher have anything to say about religion to his/her students? Theological studies is fine for an elective class as long as all religions are up for discussion/debate. I live right in the middle of the Bible Belt so I get to hear extreme Christians bark almost daily about getting prayer in school, etc., etc. Just as long as it serves their agenda and ONLY their religion.  I hope he gets fired, to teach the whole school a lesson. oh man, that legal precedent! The fact that people like this are in charge of teaching our children scares me to the core. Man this just makes me so happy to see.  This kind of action is the reason why half of us are still subbed. Absolutely beautiful action being taken. Bravo, guys! This is actually my home town. There are so many things that go on not only in the middle school but at the high school there. I can remember sitting through countless lectures about religion in various classes. HCHS's teachers are known for having bible scripture on the walls of the class room for decoration like it's no big deal. 

I can remember one instance in my 11th grade AP English class, my teacher, Mrs. Layne, took an entire class which is an hour and thirty minutes to have a class room debating different viewpoints of the bible when it had absolutely nothing to do with the subject at hand.

Outside the public schools, our board of supervisors meetings start with a Christian prayer EVERY TIME. Talk about being uncomfortable... 

Anyway that's just my two cents though, I'm glad to see something being dealt with. Oh wow! Small internet. I didn't live too long in Halifax, I hauled out of there to live with family in mass the moment I got the chance. Between the religious hate, racism, and homophobia, well, I just wish my sisters didn't have to spend their whole childhoods there I remember being young and hoping a teacher woukd do this so i could prove them wrong to the whole class. But, i live in the UK. Where the mere mention of any religion (except for in RE) really wouldnt go well for them. Wonderful. Now send out a press release with the attached letter to every newspaper (online and printed) and news television station within a 50 mile radius. 

People don't always act on a letter but when the local news knocks on their door, they're forced to do something.  Is there a Canadian equivalent of the FFR? And we wonder why scientific illiteracy is increasing and more morons believe in creationism than the fact we call evolution. [Got his BA from a christian college and is an ordained minister](http://classjump.com/c/coachcurtis/)... Oh, I remember you. This was the story about that asshole, prick of a male teacher, who made fun of your sister in front of the whole class.

Good, down right awesome, glad the FFRF has a hold on this.

That teacher is lucky I was not the brother. He'd have a lot more than just an earful coming his direction.  Easy brother.  When a Christian doth smite thy frontal lobe, do not give way to hypothalamus aggression, but restore thy frontal lobe and bless him with new knowledge. But impart thy knowledge with a blunt object, the Bat of Clue, and smite with great force. Great to see somebody standing up. The sad thing is it doesn't work the other way around. Try convincing the kid god is a lie, and you'll be shitcanned even faster. That is an encouraging thing to see. Big brother/sister win! Nice! Hopefully it's not a small town. Because I'm sure they'll be all the rage with this story. Knowing how Christians can be (judgy) this could be fun for their family.  Good for them I'm waiting for the day my sister gets in trouble for this kind of nonsense.  She talks about her religion proudly and wants to convert everybody.  My pastels are so proud -_-

She's going to be a pharmacist.  All those poor techs... The math teacher? This person, if he or she is any good, should have rounded down the number of deities to the proper round number. Is this applicable to Private Schools in the Philippines? or naahhh No, sorry. Private schools more or less get to make their own rules.  "great, now I'm sure Zeus exists"

I'd argue that using nature to prove God would more likely sway me toward a pagan religion (not that that's possible though). This is awesome. I wish reddit was around when I was in school, I was born way too early.  I read your original post. The teacher said he had "religious freedom" to "speak his mind."

No he doesn't. The only capacity in which a teacher has First Amendment rights is in matters of public concern, speaking as a citizen (for example, writing a letter to the editor about misappropriation of school funding.) In a classroom, during class time, the teacher is not a private citizen but performing in their capacity as a public official, practically a mouthpiece for the government. In those instances, teachers have few speech rights.

I'm pretty sure teachers are not allowed so much as a Bible on their desk (though I might be remembering the case wrong.)

We just did this in my education law class.  YEAH ATHEISM!!!!  FUCK YEAH!! I hope your sister doesn't get harassed or suffer any repercussions from the teacher or other students. I've found that this happens more than we'd like to believe, in today's age it's appalling
 Are these FFRF guys getting voted on for the reddit "give all our money away because we're clueless" fund?

Vote for FFRF! Something about this story doesn't add up. Thank goodness we can count on the FFRF.  What do you mean? Just really bad puns.  Sorry, couldn't help myself. Seriously though, that teacher needs to be put in check.  Math teacher joke? Bingo! Please don't be America...

Please don't be America...

*opens link*

....Canada?
Well I'll be fucking floored.  Halifax, Virginia. Not Halifax, Nova Scotia. FUCK Nope, I thought the same thing, but it's not Halifax, Canada, but in Halifax, Virginia. Of course it's America. Land of the free. As long as you're Christian, that is. Do let us know how this turns out. I hope the teacher faces serious sanctions for this one. Haven't you seen Whiplash? It's to make you a better believer. This letter gives me the same joy as when I received my acceptance letter from my desired university :D SO AWESOME Thank you for standing up for her. Religion doesn't belong in school and nobody should have to worry about being looked down upon for their beliefs and especially children by their teachers. Who knows how many kids had to suffer this until you stood up. Thank you so much.  I've posted an edited version of the original document and added the school's response in my highest upvoted comment on this comments page for those of you still interested. Sorry for the wait, and sorry for the slapdash job I did editing the documents. I wish we had FFRF in Turkey  This goes both ways too. If an atheist teacher gave a student shit for believing in God, that would be highly inappropriate too and it should be stopped.  But you know, that would never make the atheist page. That would make a theist page. This shit will keep going back and forth until people stop separating theists from atheists. It's like how they used to separate whites from blacks. Until that was abolished people were negative to the other sides.  Or theists from theists. People love their tribes.  Halifax VA? God damn, even here in Richmond you don't hear about this kind of shit. Annoying as hell to try and read that on mobile Here is a word cloud of all of the comments in this thread: http://i.imgur.com/ueQUEkU.png  
[^source ^code](http://github.com/Winneon/makeswordclouds) ^| [^contact ^developer](http://reddit.com/user/WinneonSword) ^| [^faq](https://github.com/Winneon/makeswordclouds#faq) I'm going to play Devil's Advocate (Hah!) for a moment.

Let's say they're an equally religious school superintendant in Virginia. I think it's safe to say they probably don't know who the FFRF is.

They get a letter that is the proverbial wall of text and their first reaction is "This has to be a joke, right?"

They begin reading the letter and get as far as the use of "nonreligious" and "non-religious" in the same sentence (2nd paragraph), and thereby conclude this is a student prank and nothing more.

As a result, the letter gets round filed and nothing happens. Worst case, the student is identified and singled out again with punishment for the prank.

If the FFRF wants to be serious about this (and they should be!) there should have been some kind of peer review of the letter and it should have been sent certified with proof of delivery. Not necessary. You don't want to look like you are searching for a lawsuit. Start out with a softer touch, and then get more aggressive if action isn't taken. Man, looking at some of the comments, this sub can be as bad as Tumblr sometimes. Although, only sometimes, which is a good thing.  FFRF?  Fuck yeah freedom ! [deleted] If it's a teacher doing the mocking, then they should be reported, as this was.

If it's a private school, however, then it's fair game.
 Excellent. Hopefully everything goes smoothly.  Won't she be part of a captive audience to her science teachers who will almost certainly be teaching evolution? Is schooling really even something we should trust public schools to do for our children? I don't know. There is a difference between teaching science and teaching fairy tales.   At least evolution has it's roots firmly placed in science and its effects can be seen and tested over and over again with the same results.  Religion on the other hand kind of has a few issues when it comes to interpretation of its own scriptures, thus creating whole new denominations that don't agree with one another about a book written over 2,000 years ago. Who sits at the beach and faces away from the water? Creationism confirmed. Checkmate. My faith tells me he is on a small peninsula. You can't prove there *isn't* water in front of him as well. 

Checkmate, cartographers.  This sub have it's moments, thanks! I had lost faith I thought that was the point of this sub whoosh [Whoosh](http://i.imgur.com/cE8XG4o.gif) Or an isthmus!!! My favorite part is that he is reading [Willi Hennig](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Willi_Hennig) I would prefer Carl Woese, but they're both great scientists.

http://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Carl_Woese Seriously. Doesn't he know tsunamis evolve from there? Everyone knows tsunami evolution is bullshit.

I mean, I understand micro-evolution, sure... but show me how two different oceans can together create one tsunami... doesn't add up. SPONGEBO... oh, not him?...  Ironically, I think it's this idea of evolution as a linear progression, rather than the idea of a shared, common ancestor, that confuses people so much.  

Should really be a branching tree, rather than a single line.  The best are also organized to show extinctions. I think the idea that evolution is an atheistic idiom is as much detrimental to the progress of science as a misunderstanding of evolution alone. Also, the picture makes it look like we evolved from chimps.  That's one of the big problems with the classic picture of human evolution.  Shared ancestry is all we have with them.
Funny picture, though. Yes, but in all likelihood, the shared ancestor looked a lot like a chimp. It definitely looked *more* like a chimp than a human being, but it's a bit annoying when people depict it *as* a modern-day chimp. Using this logic, the common ancestor of gorillas and chimpanzees would have to look like a gorilla (which it also didn't).

Common chimpanzees and bonobos (the two species which branched out from the "chimp" line) have a plenty of differences among themselves and it's actually a hot subject which of the two our common ancestor was more like. For example, common chimpanzees are much stronger (and more violent) than bonobos. &gt; confuses people so much.

Evolution deniers are neither confused nor too dumb to understand evolution. They're smart people who abuse their own intellectual energies by using them to shut down their own reason because they're that all-in to their primitive drive to not betray the way of their tribes. Same goes for climate-change deniers.

I've taken to no longer calling them idiots or ignorant. I just call them liars :) Some are undoubtably liars. Some are just brainwashed though.  And while we're at it, sarcopterygian/amphibian evolution: oceans -&gt; rivers -&gt; lakes -&gt; land bridges between lakes -&gt; land.

Not "fish crawling out on the shore"... I kind of thought that the two animals walking side by side was supposed to show that a bit. Like, they both branched off from the previous one but only one continued to evolve. 

 There is no 'continuing to evolve', all species are always in some state of flux over time. Some body shapes remain consistent throughout a long period of evolutionary time, but everything is always evolving.


Think of evolution has a branch or tree. Every modern species would be the tips of the branches. At some point some tips will die, but others will split, and split and branch off again and again. Humans and chimps are two species with a relatively recent branching point. But if we were to reverse time (and watch the tree slowly shrink and grow smaller) we'd see our two species converge, and converge again and again, with more and more distant relatives.

The seed, or the very original point of origin of this 'tree' of life was the first replicating organism from which we are all the decedent of. Came here to say this.  The person who made it apparently doesn't understand how it works.  

Could have made the same impact with silhouettes in a tree leading up to Darwin in a party hat and it would have made actual sense. I think it's made for people who have a grasp of what evolution is. We can look at it and understand that's not how it works so I don't have any issues with it. I thought it was just kind of a fun picture. Or maybe it's just supposed to be a funny cartoon and not an informative explanation of the theory  Well yes. But it is just a fun picture :)  Alright, fuck it.  Have an upvote, lol. [deleted] Oh, you! Oh me! Not you! Me? If you're lucky! Welcome to a new segment of "Who want's to be the topic of discussion"! I'm your host Dee Scusting, let's get started I'll take unidan for 6 please? No, no, theres way more than 6 of him. And happy birthday Abe Lincoln too, born exactly the same day. And my account. And my axe! [And my bow!](http://i89.photobucket.com/albums/k234/lawgal2002/big-red-bow_zps474a64c2.jpg) Mine too. Just kidding.

I'm sorry. Coincidence? I think not. I think that's why the Purgatorius there is wearing a top hat. He got confused about who's birthday they were going to! I've had Lincoln's birthday memorized since middle school thanks to Bill and Ted's Excellent Adventure. 

Now, thanks to this meme, I have DArwin's birthday memorized too! And my birthday! mine too! February 12th is boss.  I just posted this same thought... Should have scrolled. lol Oh shit, I thought Abe Lincoln was the coolest person to share my birthday. NOPE! You should do something to make yourself go down in the history books. No pressure or anything. The three greatest men that ever roamed this earth; Darwin, Abe and /u/dirtysoap  Tesla dude, I'm working on it.  Easiest way to become famous is to murder someone famous. Just a thought. or a bunch of people.

we're probably on a list now... I heard New York haa a record that needs to be broken.  Oh I know! Murder Charles Darwin! Monkeys really ARE like little rats with long legs, aren't we? Preferably nothing that will make the name /u/dirtysoap live in infamy. It's a regrettable name. No idea I'd use Reddit for this long!  happy b day man If you ever invent a phone battery that will last through the day I'll have your birth date and portrait as my desktop You were born in 1809? Happy outside cake day! I had the same reaction. /u/dirtysoap it is a pleasure to share this day of our birth. It's my moms birthday too, so there's that.  I've got Cher and Busta Rhymes to share my bday with.  They were the same year also, which is cool.  Hurray for us Aquariuses, I guess. Me too, and RG3! I was born 4 days earlier :( On a side note, because it should be said more. Darwin was awesome, but at the very same time, almost oddly scientifically ironic to me, on the other side of the world [Gregor Mendel](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gregor_Mendel) was discovering the world of evolution through genetics. 
 

"Charles Darwin tried unsuccessfully to explain inheritance through a theory of pangenesis. It was not until the early 20th century that the importance of Mendel's ideas was realized."

I really like this, because it shows you that you don't HAVE to be a expert, or get everything right all the time to advance science. Other scientist can come in from entirely different fields and be like "ohh that thing you said is wrong, here is why, and here is what is right" and boom science corrects itself inherently and everybody wins. Just do your science, make your claims, publish your evidence and materials and in the end let the other people figure it all out lol. He definitely got some things wrong. He's a bit like Sigmund Freud in psychology, but with a much better reputation.  I'd like to think he was way closer to modern evolution, especially with how little he was felaing with, than Freud was with psychology. I feel like this belongs in r/science.  Me too, not sure what it has to do with atheism. Evolution by natural selection is not accepted by many people on purely religious grounds. Creationists are essentially the only group who reject Darwin's theory, and there are constant attempts to undermine it in science classrooms and elsewhere, leading to situations like in the US where nearly half of the population fail to accept it, which is an educational disgrace. 

Further, while many see no conflict between a belief in a god and an acceptance of the theory, many others lost their faith when their understanding of the theory deepened. Because at the very least, evolution properly understood renders a god utterly irrelevant and unnecessary. It provides a thorough, purely *natural* explanation for the variety of life on our planet and for our own existence. In this paradigm, an existing god looks exactly the same as a non-existent one.

So understandably, it's a topic that is of great interest to many atheists. That's what it has to do with atheism and why it is here. If you're still confused, please refer to the FAQ. Otherwise please, for fucks sake, cut the 'what does this have to do with atheism' bullshit. Take it to /r/onlyatheism if you're still not satisfied.  The "what does this have to do with atheism" meme is getting a bit old. I think the FAQ should be showcased more prominently for anyone who's new to the sub. 

http://www.reddit.com/r/atheism/wiki/faq#wiki_topics_that_belong_on_.2Fr.2Fatheism You didnt know Darwin is the god of the atheist?? Nor was Darwin, he was surprised by the backlash. I don't know if you or anyone in this sub has been over there, but that subreddit is strictly for science and not lowest-common denominator shit like this. Pretty sure they are sick of seeing it every year too.  Fun fact. He had ten kids with his first cousin.  You're right, that was a fun fact!  He knew how to have fun Christian here...man I wish I could rejoice with you guys. some things are just exclusive to atheists however :(  Uhhh, what are you talking about? Plenty of christians believe in evolution, notably catholics, the vast majority of methodists, and im sure some other denominations.

Edit: even if someone was part of a denomination that believed in total creationism it doesnt mean that person does. It isnt like you could *know* evolution is a fact but say "well, i'm baptist so im just gonna ignore that."

You really confuse me, because that is basically what you are doing. Yeah lol, im catholic and i totally agree with darwin's teachings. 99% sure that guy is doing some next-level trolling Me too. It's one of the things on reddit that pisses me off most, when catholics are lumped in with bornagains and superchurch types.

i dont know why i come here. I know it is just gonna put me in a bad mood. It doesn't matter what religion you are; you can still celebrate a great man who made great discoveries Also Christian here and I believe in evolution. Catholic here I believe in evolution. I'm sure you'll hear this a thousand times, but evolution isn't exclusive to atheists or anyone else. It's as supported by evidence as any other accepted fact of science. 

Which means that you are welcome to rejoice the birthday of Darwin just as much as atheists and other theists can. [deleted] Can't tell if you were being sarcastic or you missed the sarcasm of the comment that you're replying to... [deleted] Even if it wasn't sarcastic, that is a bit hostile. It's okay friend, u won't be persecuted from me :) [only love now](https://s-media-cache-ak0.pinimg.com/236x/52/d3/a6/52d3a64f66d4b31049830fb9fb391f45.jpg) It's okay, deep breaths!  &gt;GOD DAMN IT

Ha.

 Aren't atheists supposed to be moral, despite religion. I'd rather chill with someone religious and normal then you're lame ass. Get some decency  Atheists are just like any average person, so unfortunately, some of those atheists are a pile of dicks. :( True. I'm not religious, and I don't like being called an atheist because a label for not being something doesn't make sense to me. That's just my opinion. But I'm not subbed here cuz there's people like that above and it ruins for me! I just came here and saw that and was like not coming back [deleted] I think you've never kissed a girl  Speak of yourself. Also according to you is every Christian (some  of which also "believe"/trust in evolution) an idiot? [deleted] I'd welcome it then. Are you anti-theist?

(I am not an atheist but also not much of a believer) Cue the subsequent heart attack.

Bam, natural selection. Happy Birthday Chuck D! But... but... today is MY birthday... It is my birthday too. I wish there were a couple of people secretly lined up, waiting outside my door to surprise me with a party.  Ohh shit, mine too. Let's not forget he was one of the least racist of his contemporaries, annd he liked all kinds of rare foods. Including but not limited to an owl. I can't imagine killing let alone eating one of these beautiful, stealthy meat-aircraft with lethally accurate hearing, "super-natural" necks, with claws honed to catch small rodents for a living, but I haven't written *Origin of the species* I cannot for entirely different reasons: it wasn't bred to be super tasty the same way chicken and beef is. then darwin screams when he realizes that all of them have human-like intelligence and his entire understanding of reality is shattered. [Checkmate Athiests....](http://i.imgur.com/k8NFNdd.jpg) How come there isn't a google doodle for Darwin's birthday?  Proto-rodent loves surprise parties. [deleted] The transition from random quadruped to semi bipedal simian type was jumping the gun a little, there needs to be something in between the little monkey and the weasel thing. This is great.  Where's it from? Facebook! That's even better than Wikipedia, as a reference! I share a birthday with Charles Darwin *and* Abraham Lincoln? Explains my excellent physique and high IQ. Took a few minutes to come up with a "Darwin's Prayer:"  
Our father, who art in dirt; evolution be thy name.  
Thy mutation come - nature's will be done, on Earth as it is on Mars.  
Give us this day our daily pasta, and forgive us our ignorance, as we forgive those who are ignant.  
And lead us not into delusion, but deliver us from religion.  
For ours is the kingdom, and the power, and the glory,  forever and ever.  
  
Amen. Why pasta? Do I detect a reference to His Noodliness? His appendage guides us all. "I wonder if they will all taste as great when roasted with the party hats on?" Dead people have birthdays? Just goes to prove that dumbass Lamarck wrong since Darwin would've caught onto the surprise by now. The Purgatorius looks confused. It probably thought they were going to Abraham Lincoln's birthday. It was. too bad no google doodle to commemorate the day. TIL my brother shares a birthday with Charles Darwin. Neat. Apparently only tetrapods have love for Darwin. Fourth animal is like "wut"
 This is adorable! I think this image is missing a link... I never noticed that him and Abraham Lincoldn were born the same day, same year Charles Darwin and Abraham Lincoln were born on the exact same day! Both on the 12th of February, 1809. Whaaat? I like their little hats :) This makes no sense .. he was born in 1809 and is already an old man?  What has Charles Darwin got to do with atheism?.. Many people, theists and atheists alike, tend to associate Darwin's discovery as an affront to biblical notions of how we got here and the origin of man. 

It's seen as an atheistic notion to some. Realistically it shouldn't necessarily be but it's difficult to mute that sentiment.  At a bare minimum, evolution by natural selection renders a god completely irrelevant and unnecessary to our understanding of the proliferation of life and our own existence. 

EDIT: you asked. Here is a word cloud of all of the comments in this thread: http://i.imgur.com/Lb4i2jy.png

If the mods feel the need to blacklist this bot, feel free to ban this account. Thank you!

*****
[^source ^code](https://github.com/Winneon/makeswordclouds) ^| [^contact ^developer](http://np.reddit.com/user/WinneonSword) awwwwww :) They didn't invited Adam and Eve.Kind of rude. thats awesome Father of evolution. Thank Darwin for evolution! Its amazing he was on the ten pound note in England for the longest time. I cannot even envision the meltdown from the religious right in this country if the treasury tried to pull that off. he even is on some of the coins. I am so lucky to find out share a birthday with this legend! Wouldn't this picture just mislead creationists to further believe that evolution is ladder? Most of the names on my  social media accounts are based around him. Love this guy :3. This is a great one. Should this not go into Science instead of Atheism?   I know plenty of non atheists that believe wholeheartedly in Darwin's theories. the only people who don't believe it are creationists, sadly it IS an atheist issue because the religious make it that way. Happy birthday father of the start of telling these fuckers off THIS SUBREDDIT IS STUPID AND THE CONTENT IS UNBEARABLE I think your comment helped make it better, though.  \&gt;.&gt; Why and in what way is the content unbearable? Do you have anything constructive to add? Just calling the subreddit stupid isn't going to do anything but earn you a lot of downvotes. Why? Yet again a depiction of evolution which cements the idea that we came from 'monkies' rather than a common ancestor. This is a dreadful cartoon. The common ancestor you refer to was also an ape, it wouldn't have looked so different from what is in the image. I am skeptical as I highly doubt that the common ancestor of Apes/Monkeys/Humans looked exactly like modern Chimpanzees. According to [Wikipedia](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Chimpanzee%E2%80%93human_last_common_ancestor) its believed this common ancestor was between 8-25 million years ago and I'm entirely certain that we would not be able to recognise this species as a modern Ape.

It further promotes the idea that some people have that 'Evolution states that we all came from Monkeys' which is entirely not true. You cannot say that someone would take a look at this drawing and not come to that conclusion. .......monkeys* I can't look at Darwin the same way after recently finding out he married his cousin.  i see you read the comments above Here is a map of the U.S. states where it is A-Okay:

http://www.motherjones.com/rights-stuff/2010/04/map-day-cousin-lovin

 Just because he wrote the origin of species doesn't mean he would be successful with his reproduction(incest isn't a good evolutionary strategy).... oh wait, you were thinking MORALLY(in which case the incest shoudn't matter) I was told by a Biology professor that Darwin likely stole the idea from other scientists  He did not. He did however build on the research of other scientists of his time, one of them his grandfather. 

The theory of evolution would have happened without Darwin, he only decided to publish because another scientist called Wallace was about to publish with roughly the same idea, but Darwin had done a lot of work over numerous years and his research was very detailed and well thought-out. 

Wallace did not have nearly as much pages devoted on it as Darwin and certainly had not amassed the amount of evidence that Darwin had.  Thanks for putting that to rest.  Basically, evolution was a scientific development whose time had come. 

You see that a lot in science, people build on the work of their predecessors and suddenly it's steam engine time and everyone is developing a steam engine, or it's television time and everyone is building a television. Only very rarely in science do we have the lone breakthrough that without one single person would never have happened. 

But it cannot be denied that Darwin was a very important man in evolution by natural selection and that is mainly because he was more thorough, did a lot more research and gathered a lot more evidence than any of the others who at that time were working on the concept.  Another great man who vehemently denied being an atheist. Not later in life.  By the time he died, he certainly wouldn't have claimed belief in any gods.  He referred to himself as an agnostic, but that's pretty strong "non-theist" language for the time and place.  I suspect that a big part of his motivation for not going further was to maintain his sincerely loving relationship with his devoutly Christian wife.

I don't think your statement does justice to the subtlety of Darwin's thought or position on the topic.  Perhaps earlier in his life, even through the publishing of *On the Origin...*, this might be said of him.  But he came to his senses before he died. Well everybody has their prophet Can someone help me out here. Whats the catch to this photo? Darwin quoted this on the second page of Origins. I understand his importance to the atheist religion, but he really never had any intention of his work to be viewed in an atheist manner.


To conclude, therefore, let no man out of a weak conceit of sobriety, or an ill-applied moderation, think or maintain, that a man can search too far or be too well studied in the book of God's word, or in the book of God's works; divinity or philosophy; but rather let men endeavour an endless progress or proficience in both.  - Bacon: "Advancement of Learning"

 atheist religion? what the hell?  It's a dogmatic belief system just like any other. So not playing football is a sport? Flawed analogies are the sport of this sub so why not? How is that flawed? It makes perfect sense... it's not though. 

atheism is to religion as turning off the tv is to a channel  What dogma? I'm legitimately curious. Pretty sure the whole point is to not live by any dogma lol What is the belief that there is no god? I'm not saying the belief is bad, but it's a steadfast tenant of atheism. Its a lack of belief in god(s).
Not a believe that there is no god. Stop making shit up.

There might be a god, but there might also be a teapot in orbit around the earth.
Do we have any form of evidence that would support either claim? No we dont. Its an idea but its not a dogma. If there is evidence to the contrary, that idea can (and will) be easily changed. The same cannot be said of most or maybe all religions.

I do get what you're saying, but "atheist religion" doesn't really make any sense &gt; atheist religion

No. Atheism is the absence of a religion and therefore not a religion. For the same reason that off is not a tv channel.  I think the post was just to commemorate someone whose had a large effect on this community.   [deleted] This picture is a simplified version of what goes on. Apes and Humans both shared a common ancestor. There are plenty of other ones that did not survive until today.  And another ting, if the iPhone 6 is an evolution of the iPhone 5, why are there still iPhone 5's? 

And if I cross bread a Labrador and a Golden Retriever, why don't the Labradors and Retrievers disappear? 

There is something fishy going on!
 Americans come down from the british, and the british are still here, aren't they? [deleted] The "today" apes are the descendents of other apes that lived a long time ago. And those disapeared apes were our ancestors too. Just like americans and the "today" english people both come from the same english ancestors. Get it? [deleted] Some of the apes evolved into people, some of them didn't. Just like how some British became Americans, and some didn't. We didn't come from chimpanzees, common misconception. As a physicist, speaking to the fact that more and more of our time is spent trying to explain what we do to those in charge of our funding so we can just barely manage to convince them to enable us to maintain our current work (let alone expand), and judging by all of the absolutely nonsense physics articles that are constantly picked up by popular media sources and inevitably land on my Facebook wall posted by people 'pointing out that Einstein was wrong this week' to me until I can illuminate for them the grossly shoddy science that the articles quote as fact, I can surely attest that I agree with the majority in the poll.  Longest sentence ever.  try to read Kant, You won't even. I just Kant.  I Kant even.  Its like debating on reddit, he has to close every hole for attack when describing his thoughts.   toukant-kin Toukant Sam No need to be a Kant. u cheeky kant m8 Don't get me started on Frege, Hegel, or Nietzsche. The German urtext is quite hard to understand already; it's a miracle people can understand translated versions at all. All I really need to know is not to make eye contact with an abyss if I happen to bump into one. Well, you can make eye contact but not too long. Abysses (?) don't like if you stare at them. I mean, it's just rude. It's actually not hard to understand due to sentence-length, though. It's written in a style very common in German Philosophy: Put each thought, concept etc. in a single sentence, don't split it up.

That's to ensure that you don't end up understanding half of the explanation, then zone out during the second, completely mistaking it.

That is, yes, that stuff might take some time to parse, but only because it's written in a way that forces you to understand it more properly, you can't easily glance over stuff.

Those sentences actually aren't easy to write, if you write a long German sentence accidentally, it's nearly guaranteed to be nigh incomprehensible. Takes some time and effort to construct them properly so the nesting is clear. &gt; Don't get me started on Fregel or Nietzsche.

"Fregel"? You mean "Frege"? Or perhaps "Hegel" or "Schlegel"? Joseph Conrad is up there as well ~~He's~~ They're a physicist, not a writer. It was a throwaway comment after waking up and seeing that as the first thing I read on reddit, not a strict critique. Doing that based on one post on an internet forum would be stupid.

That said, I'm a volcanologist, not a writer. I still have to write layman-accessible text on a daily basis. Being a physicist is not in and of itself an excuse for poor writing. I know, I was joking. I was agreeing with you. The joys of sarcasm on the internet :) :) My fault really, I should have expressed the sarcasm more clearly. I've seen people here using a '/s' at the end of a sentence/paragraph when it might not be particularly obvious they're being sarcastic. Hope that helps. I used to do this but I found I'd be adding it to every post. There should be a global sarcasm indicator. 

Edit: ok, you all missed my sarcasm in that. I was implying that I am always sarcastic, so I need a way to mark ever post with /s (as /u/Magnap pointed out ) or better yet an indicator that everything I say is assumed to be sarcastic unless otherwise stated.  Pretty sure the global sarcasm indicator is "/s." I am Physicist. But was written well enough that it didn't need to broken up. Imo. Right guys?

(I've been told I use too many run-on sentences, in my opinion other people just can't hold enough context in their head!) I agree - I mean, it's amazing what you can do with a few hyphens and brackets; not to mention semicolons (surely they don't count as sentence breaks), which are of course a very handy tool in enabling run-on sentences, particularly when you want to inject clauses; indeed, having had a keyboard with a sticky full-stop key for some time, I made it a little game with myself - one which I have occasionally reverted to - to construct sentences which make absolute minimum use of the abominable sticky period (which sounds like a rather unpleasant medical condition).

Still shorter than OP. See, I liked reading that. Short sentences are too... juttery. Check with Douglas Adams on that one. Yeah, wow, I really just 'stream-of-consciousness-ed' my way into a rant there. Well, at least in hindsight it's (mostly) grammatically correct and parsable after a pass or two. 

This is what happens when you get all riled up over something you're passionate about!  Hehe.

Of course, I was just being facetious, as is my wont early in the morning (and most of the rest of the day to be honest). I don't know why I didn't expect the literalist hordes. Try to read Camilo Jose Cela ... 

Obligatory link: http://www.classicspanishbooks.com/20th-cent-camilo-jose-cela-works.html Go look up "Last Voyage of the Ghost Ship" by Marquez His degree is in physics, not English Composition.  Biologist here, it was worrying when the person who almost became back-up president managed to argue in favor of developmental and neurological research while also calling fruit fly research wasteful.


Add to that the number of Congresspeople who are openly and proudly skeptical of evolution and I have to wonder how my lab gets funding at all. I think it's time we stop using the word "skeptical" to describe what those people do. It's denial, not skepticism.  What's even more loathsome, to me, is that some number of them don't even doubt evolutionary theory unless there's a camera turned on them.  There's lots of opportunities for someone who's smart enough to understand science yet sleazy enough to bash it for votes.  

And then the fact that it's even a thing that gets one votes in the first place is a whole other animal..partly fed by politicians who bash science.  I think I'm getting dizzy. To be more accurate - republican evangelical fundamentalist.  My cousin's husband works at MIT, not as a scientist or engineer, but as a writer.  His job primarily is to communicate what the engineers/scientists are working on so that both the public and policy makers can form a more coherent understanding.  In my opinion, we really need more people like him.  Neil DeGrasse Tyson once said that math needs a better marketing firm, and I couldn't agree more.    I work at MIT as a scientist and I want to do what your husband does. what department does he work for ? My cousin's husband, actually.  Very important and underrepresented job, IMO.  I don't know what department he works for.  I believe he works in communications for the TATA Center.   I would absolutely love a job like that. What kind of qualifications do you need? Yeah, after reading about that I think that's what I want to do. I'm not sure if I'd be a good researcher, but I know I'm good at communicating to laypeople.  &gt; Neil DeGrasse Tyson once said that math needs a better marketing firm, and I couldn't agree more.

And better education rather than "here is an equation, solve it 50 times with different variables". Well you certainly write like a physicist. We haven't time for punctuation! We have lots of things we need to collide at nearly the speed of light! Any physicist will tell you that time does not matter. 

Or is that time is not matter... Time may not be matter, but lots of matter can affect time! Isn't what you wrote the point of the whole article?  He gets his idea across, a good well founded and poignant idea, but without the finesse or polish of a media savvy writer.  Now 3/4 top comments and their threads are all about syntax and grammar completely ignoring the very important point that he and OP are getting at while many commenters take the time to make silly jokes for karma. Agreed. My situation is slightly different working as a molecular biologist for my government, so funding isn't as big of a problem (just less choice), but what I'd say this poll underscores is that most people don't understand the minutiae of science. When people see a media story on some new thing/technique/hypothesis/etc. they take it to meant that it is 100% proven and true, when this is rarely the case and the item being reported on is usually very early in the process. This is compounded by the relative ease of publications today; you can almost always find some journal to publish your work, unless it's abhorrent. Just ride the impact factor elevator floor by floor until you're in the sub-basement and there will likely be someone along the way that will publish it. Since there are so many scientists, journals, and papers nowadays it can be difficult for a layperson to sift through the chaff. Incredibly accurate commentary.

The media just doesn't seem to understand the scientific process or the modern state of affairs in publications. Just because it's published doesn't make it worth something; just because it's worth something doesn't make it fact! 

Not all publications are of the same quality (or even rigorously fact checked), and when the media picks a sensational but obviously losing ticket to report on, they later have to spin a commentary article giving science a bad name claiming that we don't know what we're doing or we are internally fighting (hurting our funding through the general public opinion). 

At the same time, good things *can* come out of wrong ideas, and being wrong alone doesn't make the science intrinsically 'bad' (although there's still plenty of room for bad science to be had). It's all part of the process, but it needs to be riffled through with a discerning eye. 

Maybe if someone gave them a 'minimum citation' cutoff on articles to report on, there'd be less scruff? &gt;Maybe if someone gave them a 'minimum citation' cutoff on articles to report on, there'd be less scruff?

I think the problem is that the media's goals are antithesis to the requirements of science. They want flashy titles with ambitious commentary from the scientists. They want things that are "revolutionary" or "game-changing" and they want it *right now*. Conversely, science is a very long, boring (for many people) process that doesn't like to rush things, and the things that truly do have a chance of being revolutionary are few and far between.

Tie into that the ever-looming issue of funding, and the tendency of even the most prestigious journals to only accept "hot" research regardless of actual merit and you see that there is no simple fix. We need a lot more funding for science in general, and the media needs to be more responsible with their reporting. A science "consultant" maybe would help them, but then you have the problem of making sure the consultant isn't just a glorified "yes" man looking to green light anything that will get more readers (also a biologist would be hard-pressed to comment accurately on matters of physics).

Edit: added bit at end I think the problem is that the public is notoriously illiterate scientifically. What we take for granted in the scientific community; skepticism, critical thinking, logical thinking, resonable doubts, emotional control and a host of other qualities that makes a mind sharp is sorely lacking in an average American. The typical American has a severely undertrained mind, unable to spot bullshit and falsehood and prone to gullibility. A lot of people actually think Ayn Rand was a good philosopher. Add in the mistrust of intellectualism caused by high religiosity, and you have a concoction of sheer stupidity. The fact that more than half of this country still believe in angels and that evolution is not true and that global warming is a worldwide liberal plot is telling. are you hiring? I'm trying to establish my career as a scientific communicator and I don't know where to start! I have a huge and broad background in all college level science and am eager to learn more all the time. I love communicating science to the public! it's my passion, and I'm good at simplifying it.  Sad to say this is just going to get worse.  The right is trying their best to cut down the teaching of science and history in public schools.  

Edit add link
http://thinkprogress.org/education/2015/02/17/3623683/oklahoma-lawmakers-vote-overwhleming-ban-advanced-placement-history-class/
 That is one of the saddest things I've ever seen. It permeates all facets of society, really.

Just head on over to /r/electronic_cigarette to get a good example of just how much the lack of understanding of scientific method and science in general is eroding our freedoms and hampering progress.

What vapers have to deal with these days is beyond sad. Governments are regulating the shit out of products they know absolutely nothing about, because they blindly accept junk science pushed by lobbyist agendas as fact. Here you have a technology with the potential to save millions of lives and it's being regulated to death by people who haven't the slightest clue on the actual science around it.

Scientific method and everything around it should be ~~teached~~ taught in elementary, IMO. If it's any consolation lobbying's less an issue about a "lack of science" and more a problem with money getting thrown around.  Look at the ISPs vs the FCC and attempts to make broadband internet a utility.  At this point the truth doesn't matter as much as the Time-Warner/Comcast throwing immense amounts of money at an issue to ensure they don't lose their gravy train.

That said the use of junk science doesn't help either as more constituents and politicians on the fence buy into it. teach / taught / taught

Is the scientific method *not* taught in elementary school anymore?  I certainly remember learning about it extensively as we were expected to put it to good use during the school science fair, which was not optional for fourth and fifth graders. It's not the norm. At least not where I live. *None* of the people I grew up with had any of it in school. Me neither.

In physics, for example, they used to tell me what to believe i.e. how it's applied, but never *why*. Not a word. It was only in my late teens where I discovered it on my own.

I personally think understanding and applying scientific method should carry the same weight as, say, writing. *Especially* in this day and age where one needs to know how to properly deal with the information tsunami that washes over you as soon as you fire up the computer or go outside. "In physics, for example, they used to tell me what to believe"

Where did you go to school?
Blind faith is a fn joke indoctrinated by morons to morons Guess I worded that poorly.

Point is they used to explain how stuff worked and why and it made sense. What they failed to teach, though, is the *really* important bits about understanding how scientific method is applied to produce the knowledge it does. They explained all of the facts, but not the actual science.

In chemistry, f.e., you'd learn about certain reactions and what they did, but they never really talked about why these experiments were important, who came up with them in the first place and why, and what would follow afterwards. Things like peer review, dealing and working with facts is all stuff I learned after school. I think it depends on the school.  But introductions to the scientific method can be done before a kid is even school age.  Definitely depends on the school. I remember instances in 5th through 9th grades where our classes went into detail on how to answer a scientific question, from forming a hypothesis to testing, replicating and documenting your process. And that was at 4 different schools. By the time high school came around, it was almost a given that you got this stuff, but even then, the process of discovery was important. 

Some friends I know who went to different schools, however, are completely clueless on how the process works, and think science is "simple guessing until they get it right".  As a science news consumer, I want more detail and accuracy in my science news. I find most science articles ridiculously light on the details and over-simplified. I don't think this is due to the lack of will to write such articles. I think it's because journalists having a science education are rare. A great journalist won't spend much time on learning the science. A great scientist won't spend much time on learning journalism. There doesn't seem to be an impetus for someone seeking the mid-way point as a serious question, what makes you call yourself a physicist? at what point in your education you think one can call himself that? Biologist here. I stopped feeling embarrassed calling myself a biologist when a board of more senior people in my field started addressing me as such -- getting that to happen is a whole other story. I think it's safe to say that when your daily job is to study,  research, and teach physics, you can be a physicist (although it doesn't necessarily have to go the other way around). 

It's definitely not a hard-cut division, but the combination of a certain level of expertise in an area with a dedication which consumes the majority of your time seems to be the underlying qualification I'm using, as far as I can tell.  When you get a job doing research in the field.  This is a great question that gets to the heart of the matter.  We call people carpenters, chefs and plumbers when they have their apprenticeship done, we have teachers, actors and politicians simply when they start working in those fields, we have accountants and architects and engineers and doctors when they have certification and licenses etc etc but as a society we know so little about how the world of science and academia work that we aren't sure when to call a person physicist or a biologist or even a historian even though they have had as much, if not more training and experience, as most other professions.  Maybe we need a few people that are solely in charge of securing funding for scientific research.  I'm not entirely sure what you mean or at what level you are referring to. 

These jobs definitely exist at all stages in the funding waterfall, but it ultimately lands on some government ears (Congress in the US?) who need to vote on the national budget. I'm not an expert in funding policy, but as far as I can tell it's the last group that really matters, and they're often the least informed and most dispassionate towards science. Every ambassador we send tends to be met with immediate dismissal, and as a result, we struggle to maintain a foothold in the budget :(

Edit: I should mention that there *are* [6](http://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Members_of_the_111th_United_States_Congress) scientists in Congress right now, but out of a group of nearly 550, it hardly impacts. Even if you had 1 scientist for every 3 creationists, it's sadly still the majority vote that counts.  As a scientist, I really encourage people to pursue knowledge and new research. I love sharing my research and explaining it. That being said, I think sometimes people in the general public seem to have this sense of entitlement that requires my research to immediately make sense to them. If they can't fully understand it in 5 minutes then it's deemed to be "kinda shifty". Equally, people will say, "Wow, how do you know all this?" I've spent the last decade or more of my life working on it, that's how.

As a scientist it's up to me to be able to communicate the salient points of what I do quickly and effectively; this is sink or swim in research. As members of the public or the media, though, most people really aren't equipped to assess my work. I'm probably not able to assess their work either.

So, there's this inherent problem: we want people to think critically and question pop science, but most people can't assess most science (though many probably have a decent grasp of some sub-fields).

I guess it comes down to ethics. Writers need to be aware of what they don't know, and avoid editing out important details. Readers need to be skeptical. Researchers need to be trustworthy and without ulterior motives. Maybe file these things under, "Would be nice" and keep trying to improve what we can. &gt; If they can't fully understand it in 5 minutes then it's deemed to be "kinda shifty". Equally, people will say, "Wow, how do you know all this?" I've spent the last decade or more of my life working on it, that's how.

As an engineer, I usually get the confused look, but then they just take my word for it. It's funny how in science the immediate response is "I don't understand it so you must be lying" while in engineering it is "I don't understand so you must be brilliant".

Either way, it makes me sad people don't want to learn but just want to be spoon-fed what to think. Or I don't understand it but you're liable.  Well, I work in hypersonic propulsion, so nothing an ordinary consumer uses. I would love for it to be ordinary. Everyone has air-breathing access to space vehicles...oh, that is the dream :) That sounds like the coolest thing ever. Now we just have to get Congress to agree! And the tech to work. Details. I have a friend who always says, 'if you can't explain it to the average person in 5 minutes, you don't really understand it.' What kind of bullshit is that? It took me 6 years of school to even understand the background of the problem. In order to explain it 'plainly' I'd need to plainly teach you four years of basics and two years of graduate class.   I see where you are coming from, but I think this doesn't presume that the person you are explaining it to will understand it at a fundamental level, *per se*. Just that they might understand what it is used for, or what the purpose is? That's my take anyhow. It's true. You should be able to stupify it enough with some misinformation so the public can misunderstand it. 

Honestly though. There's always some info post in the process. You should be able to cut stuff that doesn't matter or liken it to something common.  You got me real curious as to what you're researching.  Oh, didn't mean to be mysterious; I was just trying to make a more general comment.

I'm in geophysics, more specifically seismic waveform inversion. In a nutshell it's about building models of the subsurface (rock properties, etc.) from measurements of seismic vibrations at the surface. Sometimes this is used in [resource exploration](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Exploration_geophysics) (i.e., oil and gas) with artificial [seismic sources](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Seismic_source), and that's where a lot of the research funding comes from, actually. The same techniques can be used for [basic science](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Seismology), using measurements of [earthquake sources](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Seismic_tomography) or the Earth's [background vibrations](https://www.google.ca/webhp?q=ambient+noise+correlation+seismic+tomography). It sits sort of at the intersection of physics, applied math, computer science and geology. This has been a pretty hot topic in geophysics for the last couple of decades, but even in the field some people see it as "black magic", mainly because it's very specialized. There you go- you did a quick summary to make a non-expert get the gist of your work.  

Problem is that many scientist types are not very good at communicating things in simplistic ways.  I work with many PhDs and brilliant people that are horrible communicators when it comes to describing ideas.  Which is OK, they just also need support from folks who can grasp something enough to explain top level to other stakeholders.   &gt; So, there's this inherent problem: we want people to think critically and question pop science, but most people can't assess most science

Like you say, understanding science is very hard for non-experts. In reality there's, unless it's obvious nonsense, you cannot evaluate whether the research is good or not. After all, if you could it probably wouldn't be a cutting edge research. Critical thinking is good, but when it comes to science you should really primarily believe what the experts say.  I've always assumed that it is human nature to not want to understand things that can't be explained simply.  We have things like "Explain it like I'm five," and "Elevator pitch" for a reason.  We buy books based on a short blurb on the back cover, and choose movies based on a synopsis on the internet.  Hell, I've even seen Tl;dr added to single sentence posts. A questionnaire about different eating habits showed a weak correlation between occasional aca berry consumption and cancer. ---&gt; Make every meal with aca to avoid cancer. Also put aca in your skin cream. It is the miracle berry after all. SOME NEW SCIENTISTS HAVE A LOOSE THEORY BASED ON ESSENTIALLY NOTHING: TOP POST ON REDDIT: BIG BANG COMPLETELY DISPROVEN 

So much rage I had those few days. No. fucking no. Hypothesis Don't they fucking teach the scientific method in school? Isn't statistics usually an offered class in high school or a gen ed in college?  Publication bias is another big one. I feel like /r/science has the personnel to really put together a legit journal /r/ for research that was "unsuccessful" ["The people of Earth had two choices: to accept that they were wrong about nearly everything and acknowledge the ever changing realities surrounding them... or completely ignore the facts and further delude themselves about their own importance in the grand scheme of things by denouncing science, logic, and observation in favor of even more self aggrandizing religion, ritual, silly clothing, and wars over all of the above. Guess which one they chose?"](http://www.amazon.com/review/R3KQQRYFKYLCD5) Nice, i hope the book is as entertaining as the review What book is this from? I read the review but I'm on my mobile so couldn't do much after that. Is it just a funny review or do you recommend checking out the book? Follow the link above to the book review and the book is on the right hand side of the page. We only need to look to the viral video of a fashion designer arguing that the moon is a planet. Really?! I learned the basics of the solar system in elementary school. Maybe he's not a good example of the average non scientist's knowledge of science but that's the basics. I'm a biologist so I have a better understanding of biology but I don't think it's unreasonable to expect people to retain what they learned in grade school. So when we talk about more complex issues like global warming and vaccinations, we quickly enter into an area that many people just don't understand. Even basic immunology is easy to understand but so many people get info from pseudo science websites that don't explain or obscure the facts about basic science. I just googled that vdeo. I died a little.  I did too and was dumb enough to read the YouTube comments. Now I'm sad.  I've got alientube installed, it replaces the youtube comments section with related threads from reddit. It's saved me a lot of sanity and hair. ;) By many definitions moons can be and are planets. Linguistic pedantry is a really poor thing to use as an example of public ignorance of subjects, especially on a subject that has some controversy.. granted I never saw this video, maybe the guy is just a complete idiot He was talking about the moon that orbits the earth. That is not a planet. &gt; Linguistic pedantry[...]

Knowledge of semantics and of the language one chooses to communicate in is actually a fair show of capability; Consider the wordplay of hacker culture, or people like Gremlin.

I don't see how people could be in the upper tiers of capability could be ignorant of language, honestly, barring specific learning disorders or other divisive factors.

And yeah, the guy's just an idiot, but it's more that people in general don't know how language works, or even how their own language works... consider how many people don't understand the word "theory".  Certainly a good show of said failing reflecting ignorance, no?  Perhaps what the Big Bang and Vaccines are?  Or how Murder is actually defined (relevant to both PETA and pro-lifers... both horrendous groups)?

Lots of people are able to be wounded because they don't know what words mean, and latch onto them only per intuition, which is a massive motivator for various idiots. How can a moon also be a planet?  A moon orbits a planet; a planet orbits a star. They actually orbit around the center of gravity of both masses (plus other nearby mass, likely negligible).... so if you had two equally massive bodies, there would be no way to distinguish the two in terms of "moon" and "planet". This is the real answer. Binary star systems are an example of this that is common throughout the Galaxy. Two stars that orbit around the center of their combined mass with planetary systems orbiting around that same point millions of miles away. It is entirely possible two planetary bodies of similar mass circle around each other where neither could be determined as a moon of the other. A binary planetary system would be a unique discovery as far as I know.  I think he means big moons, think Endor or Yavin 4. If his definition is "can have an ecosystem", he might be coherent in his framework to call a moon a planet. 

&gt;arguing that **the moon** is a planet

The Moon (the moon that "orbits" planet Earth) is never a planet, even with that definition. Which endor? The endor system, endor gas giant planet or the endor moon forest world? The forest world is a moon not a planet. The fact it orbits a planet and not a star makes it a moon. That has no bearing on where it can support life though.  Technically, they're all satellites. That's no moon ... ... it's a planet! So, assuming i'm one of these idiots who don't know enough; Where are some **well credited**, **realistic** and **easy to  understand** channels to find out about new findings?

Be it video, print or whatever. If you are willing to drop a view dollars on knowledge: Science Magazine
http://www.sciencemag.org/

Want free articles that are still good reads?
http://www.sciencedaily.com/
Good source of most things scientific.

If you like realistic talk of aliens that has 0% conspiracy theory:
http://www.astrobio.net/

Like Space?
http://www.space.com/

Another Science News site:
http://www.newscientist.com/

If you are really interested here are a few books on modern physics...
A Brief History of Time by Stephen Hawking
http://www.amazon.com/Brief-History-Time-Stephen-Hawking/dp/0553380168

The Black Hole War by Leonard Susskind
http://www.amazon.com/Black-Hole-War-Stephen-Mechanics-ebook/dp/B001AD8I9G

The Elegant Universe by Briane Greene
http://www.amazon.com/Elegant-Universe-Superstrings-Dimensions-Ultimate-ebook/dp/B001P7GGRS

And lastly, if you want a light-hearted trip through Science i'd suggest watching: Cosmos: A Space-time odyssey!

Hope this helped! I am glad you're interested!  Thank you very much! Science magazine features full research articles. A layman is extremely unlikely to get much out of it. A common science article title would be something like "Zeb1 induced transcriptional regulation of ubiquitin ligases regulates the inner granular layer". Both Science and Nature have news and views sections that summarize interesting findings and science-related news in lay terms, so I wouldn't say that perusing the website would be useless to someone interested in learning. 

But otherwise I agree, actual research articles are a bit much.  Yeah the news and views can be good. And don't forget the science fiction section in the back.  I would not be able to easily digest those articles. I questioned if some of those words even existed.  Science Magazine is a journal, so I would not recommend it for general news.
Science News https://www.sciencenews.org and Scientific American magazines http://www.scientificamerican.com are good. I have subscriptions to both.
Discover Magazine http://discovermagazine.com is decent, but I did not like their editorial style last time I read them.
Popular Science http://www.popsci.com is OK for the complete novice, but I outgrew what they were discussing by high-school.

The podcasts from Nature http://www.nature.com/nature/podcast/ and Science http://www.sciencemag.org/site/multimedia/podcast/ do not go into the depth of the associated journals and are very good. Science Friday podcast http://www.sciencefriday.com is also good.
The Naked Scientists http://www.thenakedscientists.com is entertaining, but has the same problem for me as Pop Sci. If you want a fun and easy to understand radio show where people talk about unscientific crap people believe, and why they're wrong.

http://www.theskepticsguide.org/podcast/sgu Eurekalert.com is pretty nifty. Has a fairly large archive and the breaking news is always updated. I really think that's the problem. I do science for a living, but I'd have a lot of trouble explaining my research to an average guy. I don't think my parents know what I do. Science moved on to a completely different beast than even 50 years ago. 

I think it's insanely interesting to look at the classic experiments in all fields, especially physics. Like how they discovered structure of atoms...how they discovered electron. Classic experiments in biology are equally interesting...DNA discovery, protein structure even virus biology are inasnaely interesting, at least in my view. 

But now a days, experiments are so complicated, even as I scientist, need to spend quite a bit of time in the method section just to understand how the fuck it works. So yeah, kind of hard to explain nowadays science to people. Yep.  People who have never pursued science after high school, or what they were required to do in college, just don't have the background to understand where science is these days.  If it takes us scientists years of class after class plus incredibly long hours doing research to get to where we are, why do so many non-scientists think they can just read a few articles in a magazine and understand?  If people want to know, then they will have to resolve themselves to years of study.  It's just that simple. I'd start with SciShow on youtube. Very entertaining... and a ton of subjects so you can start with something that interests you. I feel like I'm the only scientist who thinks the insulting pay level and lack of respect is what sucks about science. As much as Reddit likes to circle jerk about science MDs get paid more to do research than Ph.D.s with more experience for who knows what reason. It's like the MD is a magical money granting degree, so infuriating. Meanwhile with a postdoc at a prestigious university people tell you that you don't have a real job.  &gt; I feel like I'm the only scientist who thinks the insulting pay level and lack of respect is what sucks about science. 

Are you serious? This is probably ranked in the top ten of most talked about things in a scientific career. I see this all the time with pop-psych. It annoys me to no end. But what do scientists know anyways? We want our information from celebrities. They're the ones we trust.  Biologist here who has to argue with the public over water quality and environmental controls.

There are two main things here

1. People do not give a fuck about other people. Not a single fuck. They might say they give a fuck but you tell them to stop dumping their old photo processing chemicals into the river because we take their drinking water from downstream and the answer is literally 'fuck you i'm not paying the DTSC everyone drinks bottled water anyway' (true story. 

2. People are retarded. They literally can't put 2 and 2 together. There's a reason that biology (arguable the easiest and least disciplined of the Stem degrees) has a 60 percent fail rate: most of the general population simply aren't smart enough to do it. I've tutored for a while... and even things like the 5 point premise for evolution are WAAAAAAY over the heads of more than half the kids that made it to college and into impacted bio programs at some of the best programs in California (UC Davis, etc...). Crap, the plain majority of people can't even repair their own car.

I love people. They deserve clean water and the right to children with brains born inside their heads and the right to be insurance adjusters and ice cream salespeople. But the majority cannot do it for themselves. And they have lost trust in their authority figures... so science has to fight. I don't think people as whole are that bad. Are you sure you're not just commenting on one end of the bell curve? No, because the far end of the bell curve can't pass bio 2 out of the general populace. That was the whole point of the fail rate. It is too hard for them. Sure, given ideal circumstances without any stress and a tutor they might be able to pass (I made quite a bit of money doing that for people in the program after I finished)... but to evaluate that shit on a day to day basis? Most of the general public can't do that.  I'd take more pride in your field. Biology is not the easiest of the STEM degrees. It requires you to be able to recall vast amounts of information, and has more exceptions to rules than any other topic I've studied. Not only that, the amount of branches of biology is astounding. anatomy, physiology, genetics, botany, and the like which all divide down into more specific fields, otherwise I entirely agree with you that many people can't put two and two together.

People all focus their energy into things that they think will make them happy, and get tunnel vision. They miss so much important stuff. In teaching anatomy I've found that a large amount of males, and even a few females don't understand that the vagina and uretha on women are not the same structure. And everyone, or at least I feel, should be versed in that. How on earth can they avoid unplanned pregnacies if they don't even know how their own parts work? the fuck does this have to do with atheism Since we don't have any superstitions to speculate and debate about, we mostly concern ourselves with reality, science is to reality what the pope is to religion.


As an Atheist you are obviously completely free to not concern yourself with science in any way, as is everybody else.


But anyone curious about learning "the truth" and being atheist understand that the truths that matter are about reality, so no matter if we came from a religious background or not, we must turn to science as it is the only model that is shown to consistently work in reality. Numerous studies have shown that lower belief in religion scores with higher scientific understanding, it's a shared interest for people here which they have a unique position on relative to most other identifiable groupings of the population.

Nearly all accomplished scientists are non-believers (over 9/10 in the 90s when the academy of sciences in the US was last queried, up from 7/10 a century earlier), and many people here are those who stopped believing in gods and creationism and so on and have an enlarged interest in science and how it jives with the larger public (which is mostly religious).

edit: Wow, downvoted within 25 seconds of posting when I refreshed, I take it somebody doesn't actually want an answer. [2009 Study looking at beliefs of members of the American Association for the Advancement of Science (AAAS).](http://www.pewforum.org/2009/11/05/scientists-and-belief/)

[Summary of 1998 study mentioned above.](https://www.lhup.edu/~dsimanek/sci_relig.htm)

[Bonus: What do philosophers believe?](http://philpapers.org/surveys/results.pl)
 I prefer the national academy of sciences one because it's not a random group, but specifically a group of known accomplished scientists.

http://www.nature.com/nature/journal/v394/n6691/fig_tab/394313a0_T1.html That wasn't me [See also:](http://youtu.be/r6w2M50_Xdk) I take down-voting with a grain of salt, considering the ease and anonymity associated with the act. This comment is in every thread on here ever. Easy karma. I've thought about making a bot to do it to prove a point!  Do it. For science.

And perhaps it will shut up those who insist on posting the inane comment on every single fucking thread on this sub that hits r/all.  I'll make one and pop it onto /u/kuilinbot after I get home, then.  If you're keen go for it, otherwise I'll be on it!  The other point being /r/onlyatheism. atheism = science hurr durr all religious people are scientifically illiterate and atheists are super smart /s When you find yourself about to write "hurr durr" in a sentence, slam you face on your desk. You aren't making a good point. Ever.  &gt; all religious people are scientifically illiterate

No, just a vastly larger portion than atheists. It doesn't help that science journalists often overreport findings or exaggerate their importance. Remember the "junk DNA is dead" debacle two years ago? Remember how, on further analysis, the research didn't say anything about junk DNA at all other than "it occasionally does something and we can't tell if it's useful or not"? Recently a meta analysis of some studies on saturated fats was done and it (the one meta study) concluded that saturated fats might not be bad for you.

More specifically swapping saturated fats for unsaturated did not reduce cholesterol levels and reducing fat intake did not reduce cardiovascular disease.

The media (in the UK at least) jumped on this and, particularly telegraph and daily mail journalists, started saying that scientists have proven that butter is good for you. One even had quotations from "an article in the BMJ" who knows if this article was an opinion letter or a peer reviewed paper.

My dad now thinks butter and animal fats are good for you. I try to tell him the research actually suggests that saturated fats MIGHT not be as bad as originally thought and this is very different from "good" but he has none of it.

The journalists have made a big mistake. More studies should be done on saturated fats before a headline like this is made. One article in the telegraph even had the gall to say that we should now all be buying more butter, sausages, pies and cakes (followed by saying refined sugar is bad).

I is just sloppy journalism, no wonder the public do not understand and are frightened by science. I am a geologist. The geology stories I've seen on TV, even on programs that are supposed to be "science-y", are either so overly simplified that they effectively have no meaning, or are utterly wrong.

With that in mind, knowing that I am not a physicist, biologist, chemist, MD, astronomer, etc and am therefore not anywhere near an expert, I often wonder how overly simplified any other "science-y" story is and if it's so overly simplified that the thing is effectively meaningless or if it's utterly wrong. Just wanted to pop in and say that /r/dataisbeautiful would have a field day with this. 

If the survey question that was asked is "Do you think it is a problem that the public doesn't know much about science?", that's a question that's really based on an unproven premise by assuming that "the public doesn't know much about science," whatever that even means.

Much more appropriate questions could have been "Do you think the level of public scientific knowledge is a problem?" or "Do you think the level at which news media explains scientific findings is a problem?" People are too comfortable. Religion works against science as well, when you don't question anything you don't search for answers understanding science requires knowledge

knowledge requires thinking

thinking is hard To add to this, as an academic chemist, one of the most pressing problems is the disconnect between the public/government perception of science careers and the reality. 

I'm serving on a search committee right now for my university. If you did not do a post doc at a top 5 school (or in a famous lab) and you have not published first author papers in Science or Nature, you have zero hope of running your own academic lab in the US or Canada.  

There are WAY too many post docs and are WAY WAY too many PhD students. All the effort has gone into funneling people (many people who'd rather be doing something else) into STEM fields where they are not happy. Meanwhile, these students are fed totally unrealistic expectations because the funding has not produced more academic positions. It's like an escalator where the people just stop moving once they step off. It's been getting worse each year since 2008 but this year, shit really hit the fan. 

The end result: PhDs that get drawn out to 7, 8, 9 years, post docs that never end, 500 applicants for each open academic position, and stagnating salaries for industrial scientists as the talent pool swells to accommodate those with the broken dream of being a 'PI'. 

Over the past year, I've known dozens of scientists who have had too much of this BS and have simply quit to 1) open a bakery, 2) go to culinary school, 3) start over in law, etc.

Ironically a lot of the attrition comes from female scientists, many of whom confide to me that they never wanted to do science but were pressured down this path. Once the reality sets in of what a life in science REALLY means, they realized that you'd have to be retarded to invest the 60-80 hours a week through the best years of your life for a one in who the fuck knows shot of actually getting to the end of it all. 

So what's wrong with science? Simple: The funding is running out at the top. The pyramid swells... and that's never a good thing. 

If your guidance Councillor or anyone else tells you that academic science is a promising field, please laugh at them on my behalf. Now, back to writing rejection letters.  &gt; There are WAY too many post docs and are WAY WAY too many PhD students.

I would argue in the value of a different spin on this problem. 

I think that it is counter productive to the scientific endeavor to frame the discussion as there being too many people doing science or trying to do science.  I think there is not enough infrastructure or funding to support all of the scientists and scientists currently in training. 

This is an important distinction in perspective that I think reflects on the general sentiment of the OP. If scientists and academics constantly frame the issue as there being too many Ph.D.'s than why would the public ever be persuaded to support the number of Ph.D.'s we currently have or more in the future?

As far as I am concerned 100% of the population not required to function in support roles to keep civilization from crumbling is the appropriate number of scientists and scientists in training for us to shoot for.

 &gt; If scientists and academics constantly frame the issue as there being too many Ph.D.'s than why would the public ever be persuaded to support the number of Ph.D.'s we currently have or more in the future?

They should not be. We need to slow the hiring of PhDs until the market can handle the influx. Right now, it's the escalator analogy. The public is subsidizing the ~~education~~ certification of people for whom there will be no jobs. That helps nobody. 

I'm all on board the education for education's sake train. But I know that universities are NOT about education. They are about certification. Education for all helps everyone. Certification for all helps no one.  That is a valid and valuable distinction.  This is not off topic. Don't be the mods with their heads up theirs asses, please. Leave the post alone and pull down that obnoxious tag.  #PrayTheTagAway Let the poor little mods have their tiny semblance of power in this world, it really is all they have What do they mean by "science"? There are areas of science including physics, chemistry, biology, geology, astrophysics, astronomy, etc. Many educated people know basic knowledge about some areas of science- many others are well versed in a variety of areas. Im kind of curious to what they mean by "don't know much about science". Are we talking people that lack basic scientific knowledge or people that just don't keep up with recent scientific findings or what? 


Does the article you found the poll on say anything about this?  In my experience, its worse than that. 

When scientists lament the fact that the general public/the media/the wider population don't understand science, we are very infrequently talking about our frustrations with people being unable to grasp our one very specific subject area. 
We know that we are super specialised. We don't expect the wider world at large to grasp all the nuance of what can be very complicated and involving research.
(I've seen the glazing of the eyes at parties when I try to explain my thesis - its a common issue.)

The broader issue, or the problem that I hear come up most frequently when I talk with other scientists about public engagement with science, is not that there is a lack of knowledge about specific schools of science, but that it seems that the **scientific method** is what isn't appropriately understood.

Lack of understanding of the engine behind all the sciences results in a mistrust or misunderstanding of conclusions that are drawn. It seems as though people don't understand there is no flawless experiment that can address all areas of a particular aspect of a topic at once. Science builds knowledge by pieces to contribute to a wider knowledge base. Over time, that information is updated as we improve technology or learn more, but that doesn't necessarily invalidate all the things we have learned previously. 

I hear way too much of "All scientists are paid off by big pharma/Monsanto/the government/the green energy industry and are therefore frauds". Not how it works. 

You can absolutely design a shitty experiment and release a shitty paper that is manipulated in such a way that it gives you the answer that you want. It's bad science, but it happens. Scientists aren't saints. 

But the system is set up in such a way that there is a process of replication and peer review. Eventually your shitty study will be discredited, retracted or fade into obscurity. This is what the system does. 

However, you then see people who agreed with the initial study arc up about a 'cover-ups' or 'the science not being settled' and planting seeds of discord - discord that doesn't necessarily exist within the scientific community, but takes root and spreads within the wider public, because of a fundamental misunderstanding of the system behind the science.

The Andrew Wakefield MMR controversy is a great example - His article was widely discredited, retracted, and countless hours of studies have created piles of evidence against his assertion, but in a worrying number of places, his conclusions are seen as equally, if not more valid than those of his detractors. 

The scientists aren't wholly absolved from blame Most of us get it. In days past we just wanted to get on with our work and have everybody leave us alone. Those days are over. Scientists need to be better at communicating and more open and engaged with the public. There's a big push to make this happen.
However, we need to be met halfway. Better science education, more responsible and realistic science reporting and a willingness to engage in critical thought would help the situation immensely. 

Sorry - I got ranty. But this is a topic I'm passionate about. Please accept my favourite (painfully true) representation of the [science/news cycle](http://www.phdcomics.com/comics/archive.php?comicid=1174)  &gt; The scientists aren't wholly absolved from blame Most of us get it. In days past we just wanted to get on with our work and have everybody leave us alone. Those days are over. Scientists need to be better at communicating and more open and engaged with the public. There's a big push to make this happen. However, we need to be met halfway. Better science education, more responsible and realistic science reporting and a willingness to engage in critical thought would help the situation immensely.

I certainly believe this is a big, big issue.  But I believe you're not being realistic about the solution.

No one is going to meet scientists halfway.  That's just not going to happen.  Scientists have been trying and trying to just introduce kids to the wonders of science, and every once in a while they get a good hit and some kid becomes hooked and becomes a dinosaur expert and some day discovers that all dinosaurs are actually squirrels or something.

But most of the time those kids just move on to the next class they're forced to attend.

When it comes to reporters, it's even worse.  It's completely unrealistic to hope that reporters will do anything other than try to take staid, boring topics and make them flashy.  They've got editors hounding them for stories that will grab eyeballs, not serve as sleep aids.

Scientists have to be very careful about what they say, how they say it.

What really needs to happen is *scientists* need to learn things that aren't specifically related to their field/specialty.  They need to have public communications classes that are *important* to their graduation.

They also need to get into teaching, not just research.  It might be difficult but if we settle for education majors teaching science we'll end up with science filtered through the lens of someone who wants to teach children, not children taught by someone who wants to do science.

I believe it's probably hopeless to count on any of that coming halfway to scientists. The problem is that they already have tons of work. Getting good at teaching and communicating on top is a bit much to ask and rare are those who can do all the above. You can't refuse a genius of his field just because he lacks in communication. &gt; but that it seems that the scientific method is what isn't appropriately understood.

They don't teach science in science class anymore, just loads of facts to memorize. Also a huge effing problem. 
When I was in school, chemistry was cool! Throwing sodium in water! Making fireballs with flour! Sure, you had to learn facts, but you also got to practically apply to work out WHY cool stuff happened. 

Walk into a science class now, and kids are lucky if they SEE a bunsen burner before university.  We were the same...so *many* experiments going on sometimes that I wonder how the teacher kept them straight, frankly.

Do school labs still **have** bunsen burners? I can't say for sure but I would guess it has to do with science that relates to political arguments like global warming. [What Is Science?](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rlNw5ZuDYsk) Apparently dancing test tubes and broken Bunsen burners o.o What do you mean by educated people? what do you mean by people? What do YOU mean "you people?" This was lesson one in my experimental psychology class. Hell, we practically spent two weeks on the media and, by extension, the public's perception of science and empirical findings. Here is a word cloud of all of the comments in this thread: http://i.imgur.com/1O0FEFg.png  
[^source ^code](http://github.com/Winneon/makeswordclouds) ^| [^contact ^developer](http://reddit.com/user/WinneonSword) ^| [^faq](https://github.com/Winneon/makeswordclouds#faq) Way too many surveys and history reports posing as science don't help either. How should the media report science so as to properly distinguish well-founded science, give the public an appreciation for the importance of science, and also fit in with the media's constant need to fill time and space and attract audiences? The grant system is the biggest problem with modern science. &gt; Public expects solutions too quickly

maybe the TV shouldn't stock programming that feature shows with complex issues that get solved in 30 or 60 minutes, less commercials of course. I think this idea can be extrapolated to many different areas, like law and medicine. It seems as though the overall intelligence, or at least willingness to learn, of the public has decreased substantially from decades past. 

As an attorney, I've been dumbfounded by a lot of statements made by people adamant they were correct about the law, when I could demonstrably prove they were not. I'm referring to statements made in comments, articles, etc.... Further, when a professional with literal tens of thousands of hours tries to correct the misunderstanding, they're typically greeted with charges of elitism, arrogance, or general distrust.

My wife, who is a neurologist, deals with patients all the time who do not want to follow her advice, or assume she has no idea what she's talking about and Google will provide the answer.

I've noticed a distinct anti-intellectual bent in this country that I cannot understand, and it seems to manifest itself in some of the worst ways possible, i.e., denial of climate change, illegality of gay marriage, anti-vaccination, outright denial of data proving various points (US healthcare isn't great, death penalty doesn't deter crime, etc...). Well yes, communication to the public is a problem.

Another problem is monopoly in science.  When a for profit company discovers a drug for example, it is reasonable that their interest is protected by patents.  It is not reasonable that government and established medical interests use the power of government to exclude unapproved competitors as has happened particularly with alternative cancer treatments.  This intrusion into freedom of choice, and the eventual failure of some, if not many, of these government licensed drugs discredits science; if the current science is all that great, then it should not need anti competitive protection against alternative discoveries.

Another problem is that science has a record of failures mixed in with successes, and the failures often become a greater focus of attention that creates an anti science bias in the minds of those who don't understand that there is much trial and error in discovery of knowledge.

Another problem is the involvement of government in funding.  When the public sees exotic studies that seemingly are laughable, there is resentment against having been forced to pay for something no sane person would have supported.  If science were funded by contributions or paid for by profit seeking organizations, and not by forced extraction of wealth from taxpayers, science would have much more credibility.  The distribution of funding by government means that what government wants is funded, and what scientists themselves want can be thwarted.  When big institutions like government, and universities (themselves often government funded too) decide on research there is a bias to protect established interests.  This causes stagnation in science, so there are examples in history of rejection of new knowledge for decades, before it is accepted.

Perhaps it is just self serving narcissism on the part of scientists to blame the ignorance of the public or the failure of corporate controlled media for the inadequacies of the system of which they are part.  Maybe these boys need a mirror if they want to get a different slant on reality. The science says otherwise! Here's a video about a recent study showing that knowledge of science is not correlated with acceptance of it: Climate Change and Cultural Cognition: http://youtu.be/BLYT54q9gEQ While I absolutely grant the importance of education. It's important to also understand the role ideology plays. 

Ars Technica ran an article, [Education Plus Ideology Exaggerates Rejection of Reality](http://arstechnica.com/science/2015/01/education-plus-ideology-exaggerates-rejection-of-reality/) - it described research which found that as educational-attainment rose the acceptance of climate change &amp; evolution increased significantly more so in Democrats than in Republicans.

For a lot of people beliefs trump education. Which just goes to show you the dangers of belief. On the media issue. I'm quite convinced science reporting is deliberately crap as it gets more views and sells more if the science is a bit wrong or adjusted. It also has the potential to create faux controversy and once again more views. More crap to talk about to more people equals more $$ Alternate headline: random poll says obvious fact we all know As a scientist my first reaction is "yeah, no shit sherlock" then I remember how little the average non-scientist knows Based on that last conference I was at, id say scientists are a bit to blame for collectively being bad at communicating their work. 

 One problem you see in the media is that psuedo science is given equal air time and science has to defend itself to a marginalized and often debunked contrarian opinion. They are presented as equals then the viewer is told yo decide which is right. The reality is the science side is almost always right and there's no debate going on between the sides. But that's shitty television I guess? Its a shame when truth isn't good enough  In other news, the sky is blue (tentative findings subject to peer review and independent confirmation). I hope they find a solution to this "problem" soon. It is bothering me that the first two questions don't add up to 100% These results look like the response of the head of science to some evil benefactor with unachievable expectations and demands.

It sounds straight out of a James Bond script of his response.

"We just can't get those sort of numbers just yet, the results are too unpredictable! It's not that simple... It's too soon!" It is true though, people whom are not scientifically literate see the world in a much different way, they do not understand how everything works, yet they think they know best over the scientists (in some cases, not all) whom dedicate their lives to the study of a specific thing, and only side with them if the evidence supports their beliefs. How could they be wrong in their mind, they did take science in elementary and high school, that how the world actually works, so they totally know everything. (Sarcasm)

I will give you a perfect example of this, this example would be that of Greenpeace. Now as an environmental awareness group and all that, they do agree with scientists and their data on global climate change. (Which is accepted as fact within the scientific community as have the evidence, which supports climate change, over an unchanging climate). So naturally Greenpeace would want people to trust the views proposed by the conclusions scientists made with the evidence. 

Now lets go onto a differing topic, but related to both groups. Genetic Engineering. Currently, there is no evidence supporting the theory which Genetic Engineering is bad and harmful, if there were health risks, would there not be more frequent cases of illness of a certain variety for those whom consume them, versus those whom dont? There are countries which have banned all GMO's on the market, yet there is not a noticeable difference in the frequency of disease. However, as Greenpeace dislikes Genetic modification, they are trying to use fear mongering tactics to make people sway away from GMO's and not trust the scientists, whose credibility as scientists rests on them preforming proper science.


If you want to see an example of just how idiotic people can be with false information, here is yet another example.
Lancet published a paper with changed information linking the measles vaccine with autism several years ago. It was later discovered however, that the numbers and results of his research turned out to have been forged. He made the results match his conclusion, so that it could be used as evidence in a large suit against the developers of the measles vaccine. Now the scientific community looked at his work and quickly found issues, forcing them to redact their paper. Yet there are still populations of people who propagate this false information, they do not get vaccinated, and as a result they put everyone at risk due to their stupidity and horrid illiteracy regarding science. 

It is my hope people actually start reading again, but not random books, they can do that whenever, I am talking of the peer reviewed scholarly journals. These are the articles written by Ph.D scientists for fellow members of academia to read and then understand it to the level at which the Ph.D scientists would, if you take the time to properly read and understand it.

Although I am not an official scientist yet, I would not be an outlier in that poll, but at least I shall be getting my degree within a few years. I agree with your comment. Was Lancet the publisher of the MMR vaccine paper? So far I thought it was just Andrew Wakefield that published the shite papers to fund his own "Special Brand" of vaccine. I guess the publisher is as much to blame for the compromise of scientific integrity, for letting it through, as the writer is for producing it. The public isn't going to understand anyone's academic field.  This can be applied to politics, engineering, international relations, mechanics, doctors.  Take something that you have no clue doing (maybe something like farming) and try understanding the advanced techniques. Yes.  They could understand that evolution doesn't mean your grandma fucked an ape though.

They could also understand that homeopathy doesn't work. Ya I agree with you, that the public should have a basic knowledge of science.  But it doesn't.  And we can say it should know about evolution but the public is the least common denominator of intelligence on a certain topic
 Thing is that a lot of the public has to deal with scientific issues, but to use your farming example, don't know that you need to plant the seeds in the ground for them to grow.  We're talking minimal, I understood high school chemistry knowledge. Putting seeds in the ground is not comparable to scientific theories such as evolution.  What's the optimal acidic level of ground soil for artichokes? Fuck if I know.  That's how the public feels about science
 I'm saying they don't know the first thing on how it works. &gt; "Today the way science is taught, indoctrinates children to passively accept floating abstractions and to blindly submit to authority, they are not given the knowledge to enable them to become thinking individuals. I'll use an analogy:
&gt; Imagine a high-school literature teacher who tells the students, "Our topic today is 'Cyrano de bergerac' which is a great play that you don't have to read... I'll just summarize it for you. It's about a man with a big nose who falls in love with a beautiful woman, but he doesn't tell her and then he dies at the end. The theme is that even if you're funny looking, you shouldn't worry about it too much. Try to remember that, there will be a test question on if funny looking people should feel bad."
&gt; Now I don't think anyone would teach literature this badly, but nearly everyone teaches science this way." 

-David Harriman, Author of 'The Logical Leap: Induction in Physics' And this is why public engagement is important at every step of the process. If we think the reaction to GM was bad (see: Frankenstein Foods) or we're perplexed by even the Green Party's (UK) unacceptance of the need and value of Nuclear Energy then we just need to look to the level (or lack thereof) of public participation in these scientific developments and debates. Science doesn't exist in a vacuum and in the modern world we shouldn't be surprised that people are interested in the developments that will directly shape their world - if the current trend of limited public participation continues we could see nanotechnology go through a carbon copy of what happened with GM. People might see this as hand holding but an informed population is better for everyone and it's a failing of scientific community that this isn't more wildly understood. When releasing complex science we shouldn't be particularly surprised when the public have a shit fit when presented with a complete end product with no background knowledge - we're not magicians and the current "grand reveal" trope isn't helping us move toward integrated public/science future. Not knowing how science works is going to bring back polio in the US. Just wait and see Scientific illiteracy has increased substantially since 1980.

http://www.sciencedaily.com/releases/2007/02/070218134322.htm

http://www.nytimes.com/2005/08/30/science/30profile.html?pagewanted=all&amp;_r=0

http://www.smithsonianmag.com/innovation/how-much-do-americans-know-about-science-27747364/?no-ist

http://news.discovery.com/space/astronomy/1-in-4-americans-dont-know-earth-orbits-the-sun-yes-really-140214.htm Clould you provide a link to the source of the poll? [Of course](http://www.pewinternet.org/2015/02/15/how-scientists-engage-public/). The funding issues are related to these problems but in turn cause what I see as one of it's biggest issues, there is a crisis of irreproducibility in science at the moment.  We desperately need to pay for the less sexy research of confirming what other studies suggest both identically and in slightly altered contexts to let science feel out the shape of what really is.  There is a lot of p hacking nonsense that we(scientists) believe because follow-up studies have not been done, and that in turn make people doubt science because so many claims don't pan out.  By this I mean less that they are disproven, some eventually are, but more instead that the explanatory power is less than it ought to be because there is a lot of noise in our signal.   

Unfortunately the public doesn't trust science, most significantly because of a lack of understanding, secondarily by bad reporting, and tertiarily by the fallout of irreproducibility, so this is a tricky issue to solve.  (I lump most religious belief as it applies here to lack of understanding of science.  Good material which teache how and why science works contrast that type of knowing to other attempts at knowing and show how the rest are bad in comparison.  Carl Sagan's A Demon Haunted World: Science as a Candle in the Dark is a good example) As an ordinary citizen with a scientific education, I suspect that it's not so much a matter of public ignorance as it is genuine public antipathy. You looked in your microscopes and telescopes and mass spectrometers, and saw no evidence for the existence of Santa Claus. Now the monstrous infants in adult bodies are enraged at you. The American corporate media fails in so many ways it is impossible to articulate them. Of course, it helps that the overwhelming majority of Americans form their world view from a foundation in fantasy, and a belief that truth is what one decides to believe, not what the evidence shows. The media consistently endorses this distorted view of reality in its misguided attempt to entertain and stoke controversy, rather than inform. This just in.... scientists make accurate assessment of general public's stupidity.  You mean ignorance of science.  

Being ignorant of science doesn't make someone stupid. Ignorance is a byproduct of stupidity in many cases is what I believe. I get what is being said but as a regular person how are the media supposed to distinguish well-founded science from woo woo exactly? Seriously? I'll come here (Reddit) sometimes and hope what I'm reading isn't someones BS but there isn't anyway to really know without tremendous effort. Sometimes it is blatantly obvious but often you would need to be a scientist yourself to know and since it is often from a scientist (or someone claiming to be a scientist) that the bad science comes how do you know which scientists opinion to trust? I couldn't tell a good scientific paper from a bad one to save my life. And then there is the whole skepticism thing where scientists are supposed to question results anyway. I don't think it's as easy as scientists think. Scientific consensus is an easy way to sift out the majority of bad stuff.  "Is this idea supported by just a couple scientists, or is it widely supported by most experts in the field?"

This is certainly something the media could put the time into figuring out. OK, that works, thank you. 