There should be a sub reddit for pictures of people when they first discover snow Or just anything in general.  Call it r/feelslikethefirstime

EDIT: 1) Thanks for the gold!   2) Holy Shit!  What happened?  I posed this before I took a nap.  Woke up to a new subreddit? dude, you missed the first ~~backslash~~ forwardslash. /r/FeelsLikeTheFirstTime. Calling it, 97% of posts in there will be of redditors' babies doing stuff for the first time. Make a "Baby Monday" rule or something like that. If/when that becomes an issue I'll address it. At this point any submission is great for growing the sub. Is this your first time starting a subreddit?

Send me a picture of yourself, so I can post it to /r/FeelsLikeTheFirstTime. First time with this user. I'm a mod of a few on another account. Sorry, no picture for you.  It could still feel like the first time for this username. /u/Unidan?

Edit: Thanks for the Gold, we can all guess who did this I'll never tell.  Dodged a bullet with the 'sfw' rule.  So many '[F]irst time' posts. There's already enough porn subs on reddit. I wasn't out to make one more.  I'm curious, will EZ _ DOES _ IT get any credit? you will definatelly need mods! Pick meee pick meee! 

Oh wait, I remember the last time I was a mod. Fuck that work. Also going to go ahead and call some troll will respond to every out-of-sub reference with /r/FeelsLikeTheVeryFirstTime [This image has helped me out an innumerable amount of times.](http://i.imgur.com/rLMZd9W.jpg) *It feels like the very first time* http://i.imgur.com/mXsLUoo.gif I always feel like I'm witnessing history when a subreddit is born through a discussion thread, like when the founding father gathered together to shape the US. or forwardslash even...
 Either work

[\r\FeelsLikeTheFirstTime](/r/FeelsLikeTheFirstTime)

/r/FeelsLikeTheFirstTime [deleted] I'm glad I clicked source before I made an ass of myself. Those backslashes tho ... /r/mildlyinfuriating  Subscribed. This will be a good reminder that there's still good in the world. It could be called "first timers" but that sounds nsfwish So long as it's good snow. I went to Cincinnati for a debate conference many years back and was so excited. They had snow! There was snow! I was going to see snow! I was happier than a kid going to Disneyland. SNOW! :D

I practically launched myself out of that terminal only to see this grayish sludge slumped in the ditches and gutters.

The fuck is this? I was expecting snow, not piles of snot slurpee. 

I was very disappointed.  Person from Cincinnati here... only time snow looks good around here is when its still snowing or at a park in like Delhi or Harrison. The snow you saw was from salt mixed with oil or tar. Its snow but not the good kind. Ya that happens in big cities.  You want to go to a park or something.  Anywhere without cars basically.  They make a big mess out of the nice snow.  Sidewalks do this to.  I end up having to buy new shoes after many winters because the slushy snow and all the salt used to melt it fucks up my sneakers. Here's my first and only time a few years ago. Granted it was on top of a glacier in Colorado, so that explains the shorts and t-shirt. But I knew once I saw the snow I had to juggle some snowballs. 

http://imgur.com/bEHSN53 ^^7-1 /r/firstsnow

Kinda dead, but yeah I'm guessing it might be a seasonal thing. Well, twice a year, with the hemispheres and all... I'd love for someone to make this, here are some submissions if someone does

[Child from Mexico](http://i.imgur.com/V0KQsAK.jpg)

[Blind man's first time](http://i.imgur.com/smpcbmX.jpg) I'm seeing completely irrelevant pictures Checks user name: /u/irrelevantjpeg 

These jpegs check out :) Would make more sense/be more funny if he didn't title them. It's more "/u/mislabledpictures". [K.](http://i.imgur.com/PI9OHY1.jpg) I own this shirt. Exercising her 2nd amendment rights I see. And that's how they lost the race. They came second last, the team that lost were the ones that had never seen fire. Ah, monumental that was, the Russians discovering fire for the first time.  so *that's* why its called the Cold War I live in a country in north Africa and I have never seen/touched snow in real life. I hope one day I visit a place where I can see/touch the snow for the first time ever.  I live in Maine (Northeast of Boston/NYC) Wanna come shovel some snow? http://imgur.com/4CmRAd1.jpg Yea, they're not falling for that again.. Hey, just a friendly invitation. An invitation to come do some manual labor for me without compensation... Give them some room and board and you're all set! Bostonian here.  We dodged a bullet on Friday, how are you guys holding up?  Heard you were supposed to get a foot or more. San Diegan here, I dodged a bullet earlier and found my flip flops to wear.  must've been on the other side of your loft Detroit-ian(?) here. I dodged a bullet and will be shoveling snow in the coming days. According to Wikipedia, the demonym for individuals living in Detroit is

 *drumroll*


-Detroiter-

You'll never make that mistake again!

http://www.wikiwand.com/en/Detroit I'm in San Clemente, and it got a little chilly as it got dark on my motorcycle.  I only had on shorts and a tshirt though.   At least their city's name doesn't mean a whale's vagina.... I think the exact translation was lost years ago. I thought it meant Saint Dora's-Cousin? Yeah well... uh... both my pairs of boots are dry so... Lewiston, Maine here. We only got like six more inches here, but it was wetter than the blizzard so bleh.

Here is a pic from my front door a couple days ago: http://i.imgur.com/D32zMpO.jpg Also a Bostonian here.  We're about to be fucked again on Monday (though not as bad as we were this week) so get ready. I know.  I'm not happy about it.  Granted if there's another state of emergency I don't have to go to work so there's that small benefit. You've never seen snow.  That means you've never

- Shoveled snow

- Lost control of a vehicle in snow

- Slipped down the stairs on snow/ice

- Gotten wet socks from snow

- Cleaned off your vehicle from snow They have also never:

-skied/snowboard on snow

-had a snowball fight

-build a snowman

-known the feeling of waking up to snow day as a kid

 You also don't know there's such a thing as *wet snow* and *dry snow*. 

P.S. It's difficult and kinda funny trying to explain the difference to someone who never seen snow. :) Wet snow turns to ice. Dry snow is like cold powder. Okay, it's not that difficult or funny to explain the difference. But to *understand* is something else. That ache in your arm from "sweeping" the wet snow off your windshield, which feels like it's made of lead. Versus the dry snow you can just wave your scraper over and it magically flees the scene. Even better is when there is a combo, you get the fluffy top layer over the hard icy coating on top of the really wet stuff, or the simple hard ice shell over a few inches of super dense snow.  Too many varieties to name. 

And thats not even getting into how each sort can look when falling.  * had the insides of your nostrils freeze when you breathe
* had your face hurt just by being exposed to the air
* had to wait an hour for your streetcar because they're so old they don't run in the extreme cold
 Poorly-traveled NSW Australian here. The closest I've ever come to seeing snow was one day when it hailed a lot. I once had to scrape ice off my car windscreen. I know absolutely nothing about shoveling, driving in, or injuring myself in snow. You end up embracing it and letting your car drift around an empty parking lot. It's like a slip n slide on wheels! (except it can kill you if you really lose control)  Tl;dr for Snow

Basically you slide about a lot and you're cold. I moved from Mauritius to Canada, where winter hurts your fucking face. Don't let these people crush your snow dreams.


SNOW IS AWESOME!

Snowball fights are fun. Building snowmen is fun.

Sledding is fun.

The air gets so crisp and smells incredibly clean, so fresh. Everything looks prettier. Everything is AWESOME when you're part of a team!!!! The air gets so dry that you get perpetually chapped lips, and when you sneeze it literally rips the skin in your lips apart.   Or smile. Canadian here. The fun goes away when you can't feel your toes, but the beauty of winter can be surreal. I'm sure you'd love it. But remember, it's easier to like it when you are warm (layers) and can feel your tits. Everything's better when i can feel your tits.  Damn it! /u/FuckUsNowMan or /u/FuckUSnowman?!

=] Come to Canada! take some snow home with you! please. I tried to as a child, all I got was wet luggage :( Yeah it's cold and kinda crunchy. And makes driving less fun. I'd mail you a snowball if i could Closest place maybe Granada, Spain. When I was in college, there was a guy from Africa (I want to say Zimbabwe or Zaire but I can't remember). Turns out, he's never seen snow or experienced cold weather. He told me he had a jacket and showed me a paper thin Members Only jacket. I explained to him about the dangers of frostbite and the importance of thick socks, boots, gloves, hats,  and having a real coat.

I even drove him to Goodwill where he found the right clothes for a tough Ohio winter. For the next few months, he would smile and thank me for teaching him about how to stay warm with the right clothes. 

Edit: grammar That's awesome dude, kudos for taking the time to help him out. My parents had a friend from India who moved to Vermont and insisted that she'd be fine because she'd been living in North Carolina and knew about the cold now.  She apparently started walking to class, started feeling tired in the cold, and laid down right on the sidewalk, freezing, where she would have died if some locals hadn't found her and gotten her inside. I went to college in Vermont and was in a slightly off-campus fraternity.  After every party we'd always organize a patrol to check the paths leading back to the dorms to pick up anybody who conked out in the snow.

I think we only found one, but I'm awfully glad we had that protocol. There was a girl in MN last year who lost her hands and parts of her feet due to passing out in -17 degree weather after 10 tequila shots. The danger is real I live in a desert. Could you explain what exactly happens? Why do people get so tired? And is frostbite so severe that you have to amputate? I live in Canada. I've never heard of someone passing out and dying in the snow unless they were drunk. I think the alcohol is an essential ingredient. As we all know, alcohol itself will numb you to pain and make you pass out.

Also, as I understand, alcohol is a vasodilator, which means it brings blood to the surface of your skin. That makes you lose heat faster (the natural response is for the blood to move away from the skin, concentrating the heat in the core and prolonging life).

As for frostbite, I'm pretty sure that if part of your body freezes it's permanently dead. Microscopic ice crystals tear open every single cell. Wow. My dad's moving to Canada in a few months. I guess some research is in order. 

Thanks for explaining that! Whereabouts is your dad moving to? The biggest thing with frostbite is protecting exposed skin. You're generally fine until the temperature starts dipping below -25C or so, where exposed skin can freeze in as little 10 minutes. [Here's a handy chart](http://www.ec.gc.ca/meteo-weather/default.asp?lang=En&amp;n=5FBF816A-1#X-2015011511225016). For the people from the US, that's -13 degrees Freedom. Very cold. Brit here.  Is -25C really a thing? It can get -40C, which is incidentally the same as -40F. Depends where you are but it's definitely a thing in Canada. Not so much on the west coast, maybe a rarity on the east coast, but definitely fairly regular for places in between. I've experienced -49C with windchill before. You pretty much bundle the fuck up, [cover as much skin as possible](http://i.imgur.com/R6li8sk.jpg), and limit exposure at that point.

[Here's the next 36 hours for me](http://i.imgur.com/SmMBMaU.png?1). YES! Frostbite is very serious. In this case, the girl wasn't tired, but seriously drunk and disoriented. And maybe tired, who knows. What actually happened that night is unclear, but ultimately, she fell asleep outside without appropriate clothing on. 

Frostbite can be minor or major- it's literally your skin/blood/everything inside freezing. That's why it affects your ears, nose, fingers, toes first- they are far away from your organs and minimal blood flow/ movement is happening. It can be reversed if it's still in early stages, but think about this - when things freeze (ie water bottle, Coke can), they expand. Now imagine blood vessels expanding when the blood inside freezes... They rupture. 

The girl in MN was found after many hours of exposure, and her hands were literally 3x their normal size. Unfortunately, you can't just "thaw them out"... There is a point of irreparable damage. She's lucky she is still alive. Was that the girl who was dumped on a porch by her friends who then drove away without making sure she got into the house ok?  She was so drunk she dropped and lost her keys, then just passed out where she stood and nearly died.

Thanks, friends! That's smart. I went to champlain college and there was a kid who passed out in a snowbank and died, all he got was a snowboard bench right infront of my dorm. Wow. That's nuts. Glad someone was nice enough to help her. &gt; and showed me a paper thin Members Only jacket.

When was this? I feel like they all vanished after the 80s, or were perhaps stolen by Mahmoud Ahmadinejad. ...The president of Iran has all the world's members only jackets? Yep, he's the only member...  (&amp;#9583;&amp;#176;&amp;#9633;&amp;#176;&amp;#65289;&amp;#9583;&amp;#65077; &amp;#9531;&amp;#9473;&amp;#9531; I WANT TO BE A MEMBER TOO! NOT FAIR!  (-) Thats fine, just leave my table alone. They vanished right around the time that Zaire ceased to be called Zaire? I thought this! Ziare... Just north of Rhodesia and a long way from the USSR. It's not so bad.  Just change planes in Yugoslavia and crossing the Iron Curtain is pretty straightforward.  Mid-90s.  No idea how he got it. My dad had a similar experience when a someone from Georgia who came to Northern Ontario in January for 3 or 4 weeks for work. he had been told to "dress for cold", when my Dad met him at the airport he was wearing a windbreaker, jeans and running shoes.

He took him to the local sports outfitters, got him some boots, a good jacket, some mitts and a toque. The guy preceded to spend most of his downtime for the next few weeks having the time of his life with anyone willing to take him out on a snowmobile. :) At the University of Alberta up here in Edmonton, part of the orientation for international students is about how to dress for cold weather. When I was a new student from New Zealand in upstate New York - the first winter a friend gave me a refurbished down jacket - was SUCH a gift, as I had no idea how cold it could be! (Also learned that after trying to walk in snow to get mail from box in bare feet at 0 degrees F). I know this is a pointless comment, but I'm half drunk and I literally teared up a little bit reading that.  You're a good fucking person. I went to college with this girl who was Swedish, but grew up in Miami. Swedish family, spoke Swedish at home, etc. But in South Florida. She made regular trips to Sweden every summer to visit family there.

But never in the winter. One year she flies to Sweden in December and it's snowing. She reacts to snow the way most people in south Florida do--joy, utter amazement, running around trying to catch flakes on your tongue, etc.

So there's this scene of this full-blooded Swedish girl, speaking Swedish, in Sweden, seeing snow for the first time at 16 years of age. That must've been some kind of weird to see. Visited my family in Alaska in winter with my Asian wife. She hated the cold, but OMG... we had to go out every time it snowed. "Oh, it's soft! or: "It crunches!" or: "It shines! Diamond snow!". What was a source of pure aggravation for me for half my life was just pure wonder for her. Priceless. [Oooh there snow in the boosh!](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=GbkOwoZLey0) This is so sweet! South Floridian here, sounds like my experiance when I was 12, I normally visit family in Italy during the summer so I'd never seen snow before. Asked my dad to take me to the mountains the year I went during december and I had that same feeling of joy you described. Notice I also feel that feeling of wonder whenever I see mountains too, you don't really appreciate the size of mountains till you see them and living in the flattest place on earth makes that hard to do except when on vacation for me. The WPA built an artificial hill in a park in New Orleans so the kids there could see what playing on a hill was like.   Guy second from the back: "this shit is cold!" I love his face

"Guys! Guys look! I can make balls out of it! Woooo!" I was in high school in NJ when we got a student from Jamaica. Because of different grade levels there, he was actually a year or two younger than the rest of us. We became friends. One day he asked me about the leaves changing colors and I explained how they would do that and then they would all fall off. He then asked a very anxious follow-up question:

"Will they come back?" :-)

I reassured him they would.  Fuck, that is too damn adorable. It began to snow on the first day of a freshman undergrad class I was in. A classmate from India with a thick accent shyly admitted he had never seen snow, so our professor encouraged our small class to run outside so Mohit could experience snowfall. I'll never forget his big smile, total sense of wonder, and his first comment when we got outside: "Oh my goodness! It is like God has really bad dandruff!"  What an amazing thing for the professor to do That was very kind of your professor and such an adorable thing for your classmate to say! A family friend had visitors from Africa and it started snowing. They wanted to go outside but were very concerned: "does it hurt?" You haven't seen snow until you've seen it in giant piles in shopping mall parking lots; the snow dyed grey by the car exhaust.  The kingdoms of elementary school students. &gt;You haven't seen snow until 

&gt;you've seen it in giant piles in shopping mall parking lots, 

&gt;the snow dyed grey by the car exhaust;

&gt;the kingdoms of elementary school students.

Y'all just made poetry.
 I dunno, it seems like you just put some line breaks in a sentence. Is that all it takes to make poetry?  Sure, sometimes. It's all about the cadence... read it out loud. Doesn't it have a pleasant flow? ALL HAIL THE SNOW PILE, FOR IT IS MY KINGDOM, MY REALM! YOU SHALL ALL BOW DOWN BEFORE ME

*falls off pile, other kids laugh*

He then screams, "GOD, WHY HAVE YOU FORSAKEN ME?"

*snow pile forms into avalanche on child*

And this scene is what I thought was happening during my elementary school recess.  It is like a two wheeled Cool Runnings.

*Feel the rhythm! Feel the rhyme! Get on up, its biking time!* No i do not want to kiss your lucky egg

Funnily enough i got a dvd copy of this movie recently and the other languages list it as being called "Rasta Rocket". Infinitely better title.  How 'bout I draw a line down the middle of your fat head so it looks like a butt? Rwanda, we got a bicycle team! *i feel pride* *i feel powa* I noticed that on Netflix a few weeks ago. Good shit. John Candy :'( "So you're telling me there's a whole other Olympic Games held in the winter based on this stuff?" No, you're thinking of "Norway appreciation events" that are held every fourth year. People stand on little podiums and cheer their favourite Norwegian, doing something ungodly in the middle of winter. Unless it's speed skating, then they let the Dutch win. Awfully nice of them.  Only slightly related:  An African team will be participating in this year's Tour de France for the first time.  Don't miss it! Barloworld was registered in South Africa, weren't they? I'm in Australia and I've also never seen snow before. I hear it's cold. This looks like the kind of photo I would want to send on a deep-space probe...Similar to Voyager. Not only are these men all displaying very pleasant human emotions, but they've taken a momentary break from competition to allow one of the greatest drives behind humanity take over: curiosity. They've never seen snow, but by god, they're investigating it for themselves. The first two are busy scooping some up while the one 4th from the back is displaying that what he's holding is not as pleasant as he first thought. Meanwhile the remaining two are busy laughing/smiling at the shared group experience.

10/10, would show to aliens.  I have a good friend from Haiti. He was visiting once in December and we had 6-7 inches of snow on the ground. He hadn't even learned about snow in Haiti nor did he attend school. He didn't really understand how it worked, so he starts putting some in a bag. I asked him what he was doing and he says, "I've got to bring some home to my daughter. She's going to love it." [Here's](http://www.pri.org/stories/2014-12-03/how-walk-ice-and-other-essential-winter-survival-tips-newcomers-america) an article I remember from a while ago (probably on Reddit, honestly) about educating refugees from warm countries about how to dress for cold weather / how to walk on ice / etc. Team Rwanda has a documentary on it on Netflix, Rising from Ashes.

There's more to Rwanda than genocide. &gt; Team Rwanda see snow for the first ever time.

I'm assuming /u/mybikehaswheels is British because "Team Rwanda" is plural, and they "see".  Americans would say "Team Rwanda **sees** snow for the first time ever."

&gt; Team Rwanda has a documentary on it on Netflix, Rising from Ashes.

And I assume you're American, because it is one Team, so they "has".  In the UK, it would be "Team Rwanda **have** a documentary..."

I just had to comment because the different verb tenses sound funny to me (in the UK, singular words that mean a group, like "team" are plural, and in the US they still take singular verbs). That's a really cool observation. I am British. I think we found sherlocks username. I am American ha &gt;There's more to Rwanda than genocide.

Sounds like the tourist board slogan. My boss is from india and this is his first time seeing snow. the day after about 5 inches of snow, when there were just flurries he was worried about driving home. After assuring him it wouldnt affect his drive home, he asked me what happened when it melted.i was confused. 

i said "what?  what do you mean?"

"when it all melts what happen?  do they have to close the roads cuz they are all flooded?"  

It blew my mind that he didnt know what happened when snow melted.  I just figured everyone knew that it all just goes away.   well, some places do flood once the snow melts.  Spring flooding i have seen flooding because of it but like the idea of just streets turning to rivers amused me
 like [this?](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=I-vAxKT_PSY) Wasn't expecting to see my hometown when I clicked that link.  I have a few pictures of that same intersection from a perspective maybe a 100yards away during the same flood.  In all honesty though that intersection floods after a 5 min rain shower.  Its really poorly designed considering its so close to the Meramec river. The second to the last guy has the greatest look on his face I am from Saudi Arabia. We have our version of snow. We call it sand. Seeing the joy on their faces makes me feel a little bit better about the snow outside my building.  It's only fuckin' SNOW, Allen!
 That's how i would react if I ever see snow. (I'm from California) First saw snow at 12. Thought I was gunna die, donner-style, 'cause we were driving through a blizzard.

Thinking now, it was about two feet of snow.  That's probably not the best first snow experience  No matter where you're from, 2' of snow is not fun to drive in.  You know it snows in California right..... I lived in southern California all my life and didn't see snow until I was 17. I'm gonna go out on a limb and say he's from the part where it doesn't.  Moved to Philadephia. That was the first time I ever saw snow. When the "flurries" started I thought it was volcanic ash, panicked, and ran inside a bank. Then I saw no one else was running. Then I thought someone was shredding plastic bags and thought it was highly rude, and harmful to the environment. Then I took a bus back home. When I realized that this plastic bag shredding extended all the way to my house, I started doubting myself. It took me 4 hours to finally discover snow..... Are there many volcanoes in Philly? Not at all. I don't understand how your first thought was volcanic ash/plastic bag shredding? Seeing flakes of white stuff falling from the sky? My mind was racing on what it was and what to do. I also considered a bad fire or BBQ gone wrong, but it was downtown. It was the first day it was snowing too so it wasn't like piles of snow was on the ground. So it caught me unawares. These are the thoughts of someone who has never experienced something in their lives.  Had you never even heard of snow before this? (Just curious, not mocking or anything!) Where did you move to Philadelphia from? I made a snow angel for the first time a couple weeks ago. I'm 29 years old. Gotta make up for lost time! My aunt is married to a man who had children with two other women before he met her. His first wife lived near them in New Jersey, but the second was in Arizona. When their son was a teen, he moved from Arizona to NJ to spend some time with his dad and get the benefit of the better school system. They had his mom up for holidays, and while she was visiting for christmas it snowed heavily... and she'd never seen snow before, she'd lived her whole life in Arizona. My aunt bundled her up in some winter wear and took her for a walk.

She knew it fell from the sky. She knew it was cold. She'd had a sno-cone before, so she kinda understood the texture. What she hadn't imagined was how *quiet* the world becomes when it snows, how the snow absorbs all sound and there's a beautiful silence. 

Having lived in the northeast all my life I'm sick of snow in most ways, but I still enjoy that silence in the middle of a snowstorm. Meta: American sees Team Rwanda for the first ever time
 I was able to meet them. Sweetest people I've met  don't let them [linger.](https://38.media.tumblr.com/8dda25fbd0d3248f71b96f1e671bc7e3/tumblr_mztd8wdk1F1qzwzemo2_400.gif) I'm Canadian and there are tons of Indian students in my degree program- many of them had never seen temperatures under 20C before they got here a few weeks ago. During a break the other day, there were huge snowflakes falling and I spotted my buddy Gurivi just standing in the hall, staring out the window totally awestruck. 

It was beautiful and I almost cried. ITS ONLY FOOKIN SNOW, ALAN My biggest regret in life will always be snubbing my Asian grandmother when she visited us in Canada one year, when she first saw snow. I was being a brat, she was genuinely excited. That was the last time I ever saw her. [TFW you hold snow for the first time](http://gyazo.com/23b68614f42c16c275a356d6762856aa) The first time I saw snow, I frolicked in it. Literally rolled all around in it. A grown man. Heck,growing up on the equator, I never even had seasons. "Why is this cocaine so cold?" This will get buried, but even more amazing is when someone from a tropical climate sees their breath for the first time. http://i.imgur.com/HXtJuYm.jpg

[Here Is Source](http://www.vooub.com/) Post to /r/bicycling Will do, the other subs that has been posted to disgust me.  As a Canadian, this pleases me. I remember I came to Canada when I was 9 and when I saw snow for the first time I was paranoid and excited at the same time because I thought snow was a magical myth like unicorns or lepricons I hope this pic wasnt taken *during* the race. 

"We were coming first for most of the race, but then we came last."

"Wha..? What happened?"

"You have *no* idea how much fun it is to play in the snow" Went to college in upstate NY.  Had a classmate who was Indian but grew up in the Phillipines.  He started bundling up in his fleece in mid-September with the daytime highs dipped into the mid- to high-60's on the Fahrenheit scale.  Coldest weather he'd ever experienced.  Then winter came.  Kid loved it so much.  It was fucking cold, too.  Teens and single digits and he's out there looking at the snow grinning.  It was hard to hate the dirty snow with him around.   The first time I saw a frozen puddle I lost my shit! http://i.imgur.com/TomJlUY.png Love the guy second from the back. It's like he's holding something absolutely amazing in his hands. His face is great too. :) I saw snow for the first time when I moved to Canada. Felt amazing at first but was (and still am) tired of that shit within two weeks. The dude holding a snowball is my hero. I bet New England planted that snow there so they'd lose the race.. dirty cheaters..  I was born and raised in America and I've never seen snow. Let me guess...Hawaii?  Not even close! I'm from Miami.  Aww....The US is too damn big.  I feel like there should be a Cool Runnings quote somewhere in here.  Yes, yes, I realize it's a completely different country.  Calm your beds... "Let me see that... Alright. 'The key elements for a successful sled team are a steady driver, and three strong runners to push off down the ice'... ...ICE!? ICE!"

"Yeah... ...it's kind of a winter sport, y'know."

"You mean winter as in ICE!?"

"Maybe..."

"You mean winter as in eskimos and igloos and penguins and ICE!?"

"Possibly..." Jamaica's got a bobsled team! Guess who isn't on it! I'm from Los Angeles and I've never seen snow in my life.  And it's not like snow is far away, it's a 90 minute drive to Big Bear but I've never really bothered, since I prefer going to beaches than going to the slopes in the wintertime. How could you know if you've never seen snow?  Do they have the word "snow" in their language? this is the part of the romcom where, by organizing their toys, they have fun together and remember why they got married in the first place.  Except in reality they just fight over Tommy the Turtle and remember why they got divorced.

EDIT: I apologise for my inadequate knowledge of beanie babies. They're going to fight over Speedy the Turtle. That fucking bitch creased the tag! Now Little Jane is going to have to go to Community college! They were an investment Karen! They were a fucking investment! What don't you understand about that you stupid, man-handed, tag creasing twat! Beanie Baby turtle was called Speedy, actually. 

FML.  Picture time. Let's see your collection. Your half of the collection at least. "Okay your honor, now that this matter has been settled, if it pleases the court we would like to address the distribution of the POGs, starting with the equitable allocation of slammers" you can keep the Friends dinner plate set but god damn it I'm keeping the motherfucking Tomagotchi Your honor, those who seek equity must do equity. I gave her the princess diana bear and the Nintendo power glove, all I ask is that you don't divide the Ross and Rachel plates!!! I can't go through that again, no sir THEY WERE ON A BREAK You have to admit, it'd fit the situation quite nicely. Power glove was like a decade earlier.

Your heart is in the right place though. First thought: "yea! 90s jokes"

Second thought: "Power glove?"

Third thought: "skim direct comments for mention of the Power glove." Fuck you asshole; you're getting the GigaPet! Good! You never fed it anyway. That thing has died at least 10 times by now! [Thats why I'm keeping my OJ Pogs safe with a Pre Nup](http://i.imgur.com/qVGzwie.jpg) I'll give you $80 for the Lance Ito pog. When I was in fourth grade I traded all of my slammers (I think I had like 12 or something) for a copy of Green Day - Dookie. Best transaction I've ever made. "Each of you will receive exactly 20 holographic shiny Pokemon cards, an even split right down the middle." If something is called collectible at the time of manufacture then it's almost guaranteed to not be worth much in the future. But my amiibos! Marth and Rosalina are going to put my kid through college, just you wait! Probably a couple thousand in 1999 money on the floor there. Adjusted to 2015 dollars...a hundred bucks And then think about the hours of billable lawyer fees that probably were associated with the beanie baby argument and realize just how much more hilarious this picture is. The only winner here? That lawyer that you just bought a car for with your beanie baby bullshit. "Turns out they really can make you money"

- Lawyer sitting in new car this is the correct answer to whatever the beanie baby question is I'm now going to refer to any 90s related insanity as beanie baby bullshit [deleted] This is so fucking 1999 it's ridiculous.  "OK, I'll take the backstreet boys CD, you take britney spears..." Who gets the Hitclips? The judge takes that for himself. 

Source: I was a lawyer in my dream last night, so I've (in theory) seen how these things work. I flew around the courtroom a foot off the ground and everyone was watching me like "holy cow, how is this guy doing that?" and I just kept on flying around with a smug look on my face like, "haha yep". I loved it so much that after I woke up I enrolled in a free online law class and hope to one day start my own practice. AMA. Are you Andy Dwyer? Nope. He's a make-believe character on a tv show. This is real life. Ah, I must be speaking to Mr. Jonathan Karate then - judging by your serious tone and the need to speak on real issues here. Please call and ask for April Karate if you want to book any gigs. It's $350 now.

 Story checks out.

Source: In my dream I was a private investigator (formerly CIA), and I thoroughly investigated the legal status of ~~teratt~~ terattt and discovered that he is, in fact, a top secret, undercover, supreme court justice from the future.  Please, teratt was my father's name (and terat his father's, tera his father's before him, ter *his* father's before him, te his pappi's father's, and t his daddy's dadda's pah-pah's, etc etc etc). Call me terattt. You inspired me to found Microsoft 10 years ago.  Steve Jobs? What will your son be called? Jimmy NOW That's What I Call Music! I purchase all the music for our public library and you would not believe how many copies of those "Now!" albums I have to buy to keep the masses appeased. Shockingly, they are still a thing.  [Up to 53 now.](http://www.amazon.com/Now-53-Thats-What-Music/dp/B00QTVK9LY/ref=sr_1_1?ie=UTF8&amp;qid=1421775244&amp;sr=8-1&amp;keywords=now+53&amp;pebp=1421775245322&amp;peasin=B00QTVK9LY) The original UK series (started in 1983 over there) is up to 89. The US series has moved a lot more quickly.

UK series: 89 records in 32 years, that's an average of 2.78 records/year

US series: 53 records in 17 years, that's an average of 3.12 records/year

Even comparing from when the first US one was released, the US ones are being released faster. The UK released number 41 a month after the first US one dropped. So there have been 48 released in the UK since then, compared to the US' 53. The tracklisting on the UK ones are longer and usually 2 discs. The US one is only one disc with half as many songs.

At least that was the last time I checked a few years ago im not worried about the CDs. I'll just by them 12 for a cent from bmg.  You can have "Now That's What I Call Music!" editions 1-45.  I didn't like any of the songs anyway. Bullshit. I challenge anyone to not one single track they like on the first US "Now!" album. That shit was the bomb-diggity back in the day.

Seriously, check that [track list](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Now_That%27s_What_I_Call_Music!_(original_U.S._album\)). There's some good stuff there. Why can't we cuddle to Home Improvement, like we used to? It can be tool time again... can't it? I don't think so Tim. *Argh Argh Argh Argh* This is the Binford 5100 leaf blower.  Of course with a few extra modifications for more power!  I used to work at a large animal charity in 1999 and someone donated a prized collection of 30 rare beanie babies to be auctioned as a collection. Just before the auction started, a volunteer wandered the tables, prepping the various items for auction, came across the beanie babies, and proceeded to rip the "needless" tags off of every single one (of course beanie babies without tags essentially became worthless; before they had been supposedly worth about 1000 dollars). She did it almost right in front of the woman who donated the beanie babies too... that woman literally broke down crying.

It didn't help that the woman who ripped off the tags just couldn't recognize her error and got really fuckin defensive.

With 15 or so years of perspective the whole thing seems god damned insane. Ugh, people like that are the worst (the tag ripper). If she had apologized in the first place, I'm sure there would be less hard feelings about it. I'm sure she knew she was in the wrong but instead of just owning up to it, she had to be an asshole about it. I know too many people exactly like that.  I really really need to know what she was trying to argue when she got defensive. Probably something like: "Seriously! It's no big deal! And if it is, then that's stupid. How was I supposed to know you're not supposed to take the tags off?" I mean.. it's kind of like seeing a bunch of nice clothes at an auction, then taking it upon yourself to go up and cut off all the labels.  If something isn't yours, just *don't fucking touch it* unless you ask first.   Agreed: http://i.imgur.com/3kltPPj.jpg It was one of those things where the donor basically shrieked "no! that ruins the value!" and the the woman said "it does not; I am just making them look better!" as if suddenly she was an expert of proper presentation of beanie babies. It was basically one of those "deny, deny, deny" reactions; like a 5 year old getting caught red handed at something and instantly going "I didn't do it!" and sticking to it as if sticking to the story will trump reality. Why didn't she say something if she was watching it happen? Some people really thought they were investing in their futures. the funny thing about collections is, its not worth anything if everyone has one. 

beanie babies are probably not going to be worth anything until most of those collections are destroyed. if you got a collection, the best thing you can do is spread rumors on how everyone else should just throw their shit away, so speed up the process.

Collections are sort of like 'Highlander'. "hey guys you should throw away everything"

"ok" Spend some time at [/minimalism](http://www.reddit.com/r/minimalism) I see The other thing about collections, is that they aren't worth anything just by virtue of being rare. People also have to want them. Who wants beanie babies?

EDIT: It seems a lot of people want Beanie Babies. Maybe those collections aren't so worthless after all. I got the purple Princess Diana bear for my tenth birthday. It even came in one of those [snobby plastic containers](http://aadie.net/didoll25.jpg). I ran around holding it over my head screaming. Damn I sucked. You knew what you wanted. Nothing wrong with that. The most successful collections are ones where you collect because you want them, not for some possible future resale value. Collections on this level is a bit of a scam in a lot of ways. The company sells some product for a lot or a little, hits that collectible sweet spot, and starts churning out product. They can't produce enough until the market crashes, and then it's every one for themselves. 

Now the trick isn't that they're selling the first market (store=&gt; buyer), what they're really selling is the dream of the secondary market where buyer=&gt;buyer or auction house=&gt; buyer. But the secondary market has to be A- popular and B- rare. Right now, upper tier auction houses are flooded with money  that has nowhere else to go, so they're elevating stuff like pop culture, art, high end collectibles, because it's a great way to tie up some money (sometimes dirty money) in something that has some value and also doesn't really go through the same process of banking/investing/depositing.
Vintage video games are definitely getting there, but people are far more cautious than they had been, and they don't not the same level of nostalgia for them as others did in the past yet.

But the precious moments, beanie babies, cabbage patch kids fads? All just selling that fake promise of the secondary market that will never exist. No, you're not tricking me into learning something. It's 1:30 in the morning. My sisters and I made a killing selling our beanie babies and were able to buy a N64 and several games with the money. We bought them for like $6 but were inpatient children and sold them a few months after that particular baby became discontinued for like $60-$75, not save them for years like some people. 

Edit- In my defense for the 'inpatient' typo, I am in a clinical doctorate program and have had the word on my mind trying to decide on an inpatient or outpatient for my next clinical experience  That was probably a good idea, because they're pretty hard to sell nowadays.

Edit: I should've specified that it's hard to sell for a decent amount. You made the right choice. Well to be fair, you guys probably needed the money seeing as you were an inpatient child. Outpatient children are so much cheaper.  
Hot tub babies ever better.
 Gotta get on the pyramid scheme while growth is accelerating. But most importantly: get off.  And investing in Super Size fries and drinks! This was 1999, man, and you just HAD to have all of the McDonald's happy meal releases. i remember lines around the friggin building for drive thru. Adults walking out of the restaurant with 4-5 happy meals.  

The frenzy was intense. The mcdonalds beanie babies are apparently some of the few that are now worth anything Mine are still in the package! Just like my virginity! Well I lost mine, but I've still got the box it came in. Tell us more about the box you came in.  It's an '88, low mileage, minor dents and scratches appropriate for the age. No major accidents or repairs. The grill was completely redesigned and upgraded in the mid-00's. Serviced as and when necessary, fluids checked monthly. Everything in good working order. However there is an unidentified issue causing long periods of loud annoying noises from the front end, but they go away after a while. Big airbags. It's the Dutch Tulips all over again. I felt kind of silly holding on to my childhood beanie babies, but there was just two shoeboxes of them and I never got around to dealing with them. I thought there was a supremely remote chance they'd appreciate in value, and maybe if I just didn't get rid of those two shoeboxes for long enough they'd be worth something someday. 

It turned out they did become valuable, because much later in life my little niece got to play with them and got a lot more enjoyment out of them than I ever did. I knew letting her play with them would mean the tags would get messed up and the potential future value would be lost, but they'd never be worth more than what a few hours of childhood playtime is worth. They're toys, after all. If you get a chance, watch Image Revolution. There were people standing in line for comics saying that they would pay for their college in 10 years. Speculation is so fucked.  You know they're freaking out about them being on the floor. They're out of their dust-proof containers and some of them don't have protectors on the tags yet. That judge is so cruel. Bankrupt By Beanies - a film by a kids dad who put ALL their money into these things. Sad. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PgDsyj5eLmo My parents made poor financial decisions in the past but, Jesus, this is ridiculous. The utter sound of regret in their voices towards the end is just heartbreaking. I think anyone who ended up losing a lot of money on beanie babies would have still lost a lot of money on another idiotic venture had beanie babies not existed. My ex was a beanie baby collector and because of this we learnt of these rare beats that had countries flags on them. The really rare ones also had a flag on their noses. I found 3 NZ flag bears, each at about $30. Sold them on eBay for $1500 each.  Fuck me, 3 people would have had buyers remorse by now. I sincerely hope so. When things are mass produced, they arent limited edition. It's limited to the number they can sell. Which is part of what fucked the comic book industry over in the 90s. The reason golden age comics are worth so much is no one was originally collecting them for investment reasons. The ones that made it out in good condition were valuable because there were so few of them. It is the same problem today with idiots buying new consoles and video games and keeping them sealed. If there are 100,000 or even 10,000 sealed Xbox 360s or Ones in 2035 they're not going to be worth as much as one of the few sealed NESs around today (if there are even any?). Back in 2007, I was trying to find a way to go visit my girlfriend in another state. My mom told me I could sell some of her Beanie Babies. At the time, I thought there was a lot of money there. I now realize how foolish that was and feel like a total nard. Even the limited edition princess diana beanie baby that everyone was convinced would be worth thousands....10 bucks.

Sure there are people out there trying to convince you that theirs is a first edition mint issue and worth 1500...but it's all lies. They're worth about 10 bucks. You'd think they'd have worked harder at their relationship given it was their only chance for one. I would like someone to locate them for a Where Are They Now.  The woman died in a fire five years ago in Barstow California. She lost everything in Vegas prior to and dove into a bottle and some light hooking... no ass stuff.

The guy, Dan Carpenter is my neighbor, not a bad guy, smells like ammonia most of the time, likes those off brand cheese puffs, the round ball ones. He works at home depot.  I want to believe.  Not true unfortunately. The woman is Frances Mountain and the guy is Harold Mountain  [deleted] Mountain is not actually a Lannister but he does work for them.

Edit: at least at ghe point in the show im at. But doooooddd they were going to be richhh!!!
 http://whothefuckisdodd.ytmnd.com/ There will always be a place in my heart for ytmnd http://goldblumretriever.ytmnd.com/

My favorite.

http://putintheritzon.ytmnd.com/

Very, very close second. http://snoopkirby2.ytmnd.com/ You might also appreciate this https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wJelEXaPhJ8 God the memories. My favorite http://heeereswilly.ytmnd.com/ http://goatgoat.ytmnd.com/ Just from looking at the picture you can hear the presiding judge thinking, "The shit I've got to deal with..." "If you're going to fight over your toys in my courtroom, you're going to have to sit on the floor like children."  Objection your honor, they're *valuable collectibles*!  damnit Marie They're minerals! *priceless ornaments! It's weird how carpet was such a common and acceptable flooring material for public spaces, and then just suddenly in the mid 2000's we all collectively went "wait a second, this shit is hard as fuck to clean and gets damaged very quickly". Every public place now is tile or laminate or hardwood. For a divorce judge? Yeah this is just a Tuesday.


Imagine those toys were 4 kids that each parent was using as a weapon to try and get payback toward their ex by denying them access to their own children.


I bet the judge loved this, i bet it made his/her week. The judge would be having a blast. 

*Okay, now you get the pink rabbit. You take the purple dog. You take the yellow cow, and you take Mr. Squibbles.* noooooo mr squibbles Oh man, the thought of parents doing that to their kids makes me seethe with rage.  Mainly because it happened to me.  And you know what?  I have minimal contact with both of my parents as an adult.  I remember feeling just so confused and guilty because both parents wanted me to love them but each didn't want me to love the other.  I just didn't even have a concept of why they were fighting, and why I was involved.

People who use kids as leverage to get back at the other parent are just terrible parents who don't deserve the love those kids want to give. It would be depressing to be a divorce court judge. Hell, my parents got divorced on Valentines Day. The judge was either very sad, or cracking up somewhere. Shoulda seen his face when they divided the dog  My aunt got really into the Beanie Baby craze and built up a huge collection. Whenever we went over to her house, she would let us play with them, but we had to be *absolutely sure* that we didn't rip off the tags, because "they'll be worth a lot someday!" Pretty sure they're still sitting in her basement.   Beanie Babies were a huge part of my childhood. My parents used to make custom wooden stands for them and sell them at beanie baby shows. I was in the beanie babies club and my grandmother spent loads of money on the "valuable" ones. She still believes they are worth a lot of money, but I don't have the heart to tell her the truth. I still have tubs full of the things sitting in storage.  The first rule of the Beanie Baby club is you don't talk about the Beanie Baby club    To be honest its best not to.    Though in all fairness she knows by now, but telling her would only make her confront her shame.   But do they still have their tags?  Not all, we actually did rip a couple of the tags before we were told not to. Luckily she didn't hold a grudge. You think that now, but just wait until you see what's in her will. a beanie baby with no tag. ...just the tags. She wrote a generous will, and then ripped it up just to teach them a lesson.  I have crates and crates full :/  There are charities that accept toy donations, e.g. Toys for Tots. You could make a lot of children very happy with those crates full of Beanie Babies. What're you crazy?! They're just in a valley!  They're on their way back! while the crowd looks on intently I like the woman in the very back craning her neck to see exactly how the breakdown is going. "Oh shit! He's making off with Tuffy!  That's going to be a fortune for him some day, I think I need to do some more "investing".  "

I say Tuffy because its the only one whose name I know.  I won it out of a grabber-machine in 5th grade (the only thing I've won out of a grabber machine mind you). That Peanut he has isn't even royal blue... what a fucktard Wow they actually believe they are dividing up something of major value... I remember those days. I got so pumped to get a Princess Diana beanie baby. What's it worth now? Probably jack shit. Poor couple. 

Edit: Just to clarify,

"Pumped to get" entails being 12 and having one thrown at me out the window of a car by the kid who's mom owned a local toy store. He had boxes full and to be one of the people to catch one was indescribable. It felt like I just got tossed a chunk of gold.  Quick look on ebay shows anywhere from $1 to $1.2k. You can tell some people refuse to admit they made a foolish decision when they bought them. You looked too quickly.  It goes up to $500k. No. I make my living off of selling beanie babies. The princess diana beanie baby is a scam.

Assume it's perfect condition. There are tons of them with defects that aren't worth much. Ignore those.

So, there are a few things to consider. It can be made in either China or Indonesia. The Indonesian ones aren't worth as much, so let's assume China.

There were multiple editions. The first edition is the the most, so let's assume that.

It can have either PE or PVC pellets. With PE pellets, a mint condition, first edition from China might be worth.... $30.

But if you have the PE pellets, that's where the money is. You might get as much as $50.

----

These are what I'd sell them for. I'd buy them for maybe a 10th of the price, at most. The last PE one I bouht was $0.99. I see we have different definitions of 'where the money is' People put it up for that price. Doesn't mean anyone actually buys it. I remember riding my bike to this local store that would raffle off a *chance to buy* a beanie baby every Friday. That fad was indescribably huge. Memories... &gt;raffle off a chance to buy a beanie baby every Friday

Oh god the memories. Back then I was dating my first girlfriend and both her and her mom were super into it. I used to go with them every single week and spend all day in some horrible store with a terrible smell just so they could get a chance to maybe buy one of those things.

Those were the days, back when I'd have done anything just to be near my girlfriend and talk. I remember this one time we got to watch a movie at her neighbors house, they went upstairs and left us alone, we held hands practically all night! The level of innocence was insane. &gt; Princess Diana beanie baby

Yeah the value really crashed for that one My mom had a grab bag of beanie babies where if we were good we could take a mystery beanie baby out of a big bag. Also they were at the ice cream shop where we read books at little chairs,  but I think that's a small law or accounting firm now. I just wanted to share. I'm just trying to figure out which one's gonna get $14.56 and which one's gonna get the $14.57. This is a really beautiful photograph. It's so raw. These adults seem to have forgotten they are in a courtroom picking their pieces of their broken marriage. 

They look just like children, but all grown up.  The gentleman challenged his ex-wife's custodial rights to their Tomagatchi when he found no less than 4 poops on the screen during his court-supervised visit. It would be hilarious if in a few decades Beanie Babies started auctioning for hundreds of dollars each simply because so many people threw away their "worthless collectibles". And everyone(me included) that made fun of them were mad because they didn't buy them when they could. Well then I'd just make fun of the people spending hundreds of dollars on absolutely useless shit yet again. Never thought I'd open reddit to see my aunt and uncle on the front page. It is just as embarrassing now as it was then.  You're welcome. Not just on the front page of reddit, but also in an article on Slate.com. [Slate sauce](http://www.slate.com/articles/health_and_science/science/2015/02/beanie_babies_bubble_economics_and_psychology_of_a_plush_toy_investment.html) I honestly forgot about this ever happening but wow what a way to get reminded! Haha Lol I wish this was real.  It is very real. I remember my mom showing me the picture in the newspaper. I was 11. Oh. 

Well...  you have a hell of an inheritance coming your way, lemme tell you. Haha I honestly don't even think she has them anymore. What a waste! I'm late.. But under reddit laws I think you're obliged to give a story!  

....also proof Please tell me they had children. And then tell me there was less of a fight for them than the Beanie Babies.  Just wait till they get to the pokemon cards they left that for their appearance on Jerry Springer. Things will get too bloody for standard court Buying Beanie Babies on eBay was the most 1999 thing you could possibly do Your Y2K proof computer.  For the curious, [here's](http://www.slate.com/articles/health_and_science/science/2015/02/beanie_babies_bubble_economics_and_psychology_of_a_plush_toy_investment.html) the article I found the picture in. The photo caption:

&gt; Frances Mountain, left, sorts out Beanie Babies with her ex-husband, Harold Mountain, in a Las Vegas courtroom in 1999. The couple was unable to split the collection by themselves, so they spread it on the courtroom floor and divided it up under the judges supervision. Maple the Bear was the first to go. &gt;*Maple the Bear was the first to go.*

 His name was Maple the Bear His name was Maple the Bear &gt; Maple the Bear

[$7.90 on Amazon. Prime Eligible.](http://www.amazon.com/Ty-Beanie-Babies-Maple-Bear/dp/B00001P4XW) Both must cringe at the sight of this now.  Not even Beanie Baby collectors can stand to be around Beanie Baby collectors. Man, I know too much about Beanie babies, and it sticks in my head like a steal trap. A few years ago, a girl said to me, "my birthday is on November 6, and I said to her, you share a birthday with Pouch the Kangaroo." So, for anyone who doubts what I'm about to say, I think I have the ruinous resume for this.

This collection of Beanies is hilariously terrible. Almost none of these were ever of any value. I'm seeing a lot of duplicates, so it's clear that these two were collecting to strike it rich. They weren't collecting just to have them. I see a lot of Legs the frogs. They had a little bit of value at one point, and when Chocolate the moose retired (which you can see a couple of, it jumped in value a little as well. But they were not big money makers. It's pretty clear to me that these two started collecting late in the Beanie wave, and I wouldn't even be surprised if this were part of why the ended up getting divorced. Most of their retired beanies are from the series that retired just before the most infamous release of beanies ever: Hiss, Iggy, and Rainbow. Rainbow and Iggy were released with their tags switched and body parts all messed about. There were a couple releases of each before Ty got it right. That said, it's pretty clear that she knows what she's doing, and he might be a moron. In her pile in th elower left hand corner, she has a Flip the cat, and (I think though it's hard to say for sure) a Dotty the Dalmation. Those two were pretty valuable after they were retired. Probably the most valuable in this collection presuming that the Lucky the Ladybug sitting in the middle of the pile is a later generation version of the Beanie. Were I trying to select a Beanie in this, I think my next choice from among the middle pile would be Crunch the Shark, though at the time I might have gone for that tye died rooster because it might be a Doodle which was forced to have it's name changed to Strut, and was Doodle for only a very short time. If it's a Doodle, I'm guessing at the time, I'd grab that. If it's a Strut, I'd go for the Crunch the Shark. In the end, Crunch would have been better, but Doodle was what everyone was speculating on. Apparently putting your hand to your face and sticking your finger on your mouth was quite the fad in 1999. I don't even care.  I'll say it.  As a kid who loved stuffed animals, these things were the shit.  There was one for just about any animal you could want.  Played with these things every day till I grew out of them.  Think they're still in a box in a closet somewhere around here. i have a Ronald Regan bear, the two American flag bears, and the shark one all as gifts when i was in the hospital for something serious. i still pick them up and think about life sometimes. Can you imagine the Judge going home after this? 

"It was bad.  They were kneeling.."

"Crying?"

"Um, no.  Kneeling at the baby..."

"Pictures?"

"No.  Those stupid baby beanie th.."

"Beanie babies hun."

"Dammit will you let me finish?!  Or I swear to God I'm going to take my half of the Pokemon cards and leave!" I still have all my beanie babies, hundreds of them. Parting with them in the 90s would have been absolute torture.

I sometimes get tempted to sell them, I wish they'd remained a collectable but even if I sold them for 1 each I'd get a decent chunk of cash... I think I'd actually feel guilty though, like I was selling my childhood. They were a collectable because people collected them. But they were never really a collectable.  I know a lot of people who collected them in the 90s... But I think that was because I was born in 91. Everyone acted like they'd be so valuable one day but in reality my childhood was built on lies. 
 Don't feel bad, I was 11 when you were born and everyone acted the same about comic books then. A lot of childhoods were messed up when people ruin fun hobbies with "investment" b.s. I still have a sealed copy of the comic book where superman died. It was so mass produced I don't think it's worth anything now. Reminded me of this

http://m.youtube.com/watch?v=cIhu5XxXKxA The guy in the gallery is rapt with attention.  
"c'mon brah, don't act like you want the silver unicorn or that bitch is just gonna steal it.... you gotta deke here out, take some shitty ones then snatch it." That lawyer. 

"Uh, lady, you're paying me hourly."

I bet the dude strung it out as long as possible. "No, *I* get the pink poodle!" Lol I didn't even think about the lawyer fees. Even if these things are relatively worthless now they would still get *something* for them. Even if it is pennies. But when you subtract the money they paid for their attorneys they are going to be down a shit load. Maybe.   I'd imagine for divorce cases not involving a ton of assets or contention of assets (for all we know they literally agreed on everything but these)  they would probably arrange an up front reasonable fee (between a few hundred and maybe 2k?)to put into escrow until the action finishes.   If it was a big case with lots of divisible assets and a wealthy client, and the lawyer knew it was going to be long term, they'd probably set up some sort of hourly fee arrangement.   Most states prohibit contingent fees on divorce actions because it's a conflict of interest for the lawyer.  Most divorces are initiated by women. I bet the guy was paying out of his ass for it. Assuming he isn't paying for both. 

But whichever one isn't, probably would be doing just that. Life is beautiful I assume the judge shot himself later that night. That's a bold assumption  This picture bothers me so much.  This couple used to love one another.  They slept together, ate together, shared a life together...built this (in my opinion) idiotic collection together.  They are grown adults...and their entire relationship culminated in them crouched on the floor of a courtroom, divvying up their little stuffed animals.

It is just so pathetic. This it's truly a picture of somebody's exact rock bottom moment.   The pathetic part for me is adults owning a collection of plush animals. I'd ask for the tags only, just to be a bitter dick. Most states allow the wife to claim a tax credit on anything given away by the husband during the marriage, including dignity.   So tree fiddy? Sorry, your honor, she lost that well before we got married! I worked in a family law courtroom for a while, handling divorces. Most depressing month of my life. I feel like watching 2 people scramble for beanie babies would probably be fantastic, especially compared to the stuff you normally saw.  They are in for a shock when the spider eggs hatchz A couple of days later she started receiving random beanie parts in the mail. This reminds me of a short documentary I watched on Youtube...

[Bankrupt by Beanie Babies](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PgDsyj5eLmo)

I feel bad for the boys They actually seem pretty nice people which is a shame, normally delusional greedy morons i wallow in their failure, but these guys seem too normal. I love how the wife pretends she was above it all. Great short doco. Thanks! Can a divorce court judge sentence people to be executed? No wonder lawyers go home and drink. Bitcoin of the 90s Yeah, except that a lot of them were worth a lot more than bitcoin. Oh shit. That's gonna be me and my wife with our Funko Pops  I like that you're not so much concerned about the divorce itself but rather the Funko Pops. 



 Priorities, man.  Funko Pops are the 2010's version of Beanie Babies with appeal to both sexes. My fiancee and I are approaching like 60. I can't wait for 2020 when I find a plastic tub filled with old toys I bought for $10 each that are worth $2 each still in the boxes.  In 2003 my wife and I got divorced. She spent every last dollar I had on plastic mode horse figurines/models. At last count she had over 1300 in her *cough* stable. I witnessed first hand some models appreciate in value 100 fold. I took the gamble, in the divorce I took the house and all the furnishings. She kept the horses. I think I made out on top in the long run now that she's broke and on welfare.  Related username? *Plastic* horses she thought would increase in value?  Made in China? I used to work for a company that did background checks, and one of the saddest things I ever saw when I was reviewing them was a simple, two word answer for cause of bankruptcy:  "Beanie Babies." This is the peak of shitty American consumption.  Divorce is always hard on the beanie babies It's important to remember that it's not their fault. "I wasn't falling, I was flying with style." - Robert Mugabe Yeah, that's the Zimbab way. A frican pun thread? Seriously? You need Togo. Niger please! You Congo, too. Fucking Chad You really Ghana go there? Kenya stop with the puns? This took a Sudan turn. You're just Madagascar can go faster than an electric car. Ignore these guys and just go Libya life kid. This is the corniest thread I've ever Benin. Zaire we go, we can stop now. Uganda be kidding me! This thread got way off topic.  Oh well, not all who Rwanda are lost. Seriously, guys? Guinea a break. Maybe he's on Mali. Kenya please stop with the puns! I ain't Ghana Uganda be kid in me "And then I happened to fall, but this part was still flying." Bae caught me trippin'

-Robert Mugabe He wasn't falling, he was doing the [Cat Daddy](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Dq_sGy4H_-k). NSFW [Just in case that version didn't hold your attention](http://vimeo.com/41393068) I'm always amazed when I see someone link to a music video that has millions of views, and I've never heard of it before.  [I like this one](http://i.imgur.com/Cad0flT.jpg)
 Big bald guy in the middle saw it coming and enjoyed watching it. Didn't move a finger "Hahaha. My succession is imminent now!" &gt;Big bald guy Yeah, while I can see what one they meant, "Big Bald Guy" doesn't exactly narrow it down much. He probably meant the black one.  The one in the suit?  Yeah, with the stripy tie. yep, the one staring directly at Mugabe I think. He has a visible hand. The black one. He's wearing a suit. He just dropped a contact lens. The contact lenses he wears under his glasses. For double the vision contact lens, moral authority to rule, whatever So Zimbabwe has a per capita GDP of $600(!!!), and this guy and his crew drive around in Mercedes limos in custom tailored suits? Makes sense. Not so powerful on his knees is he.  I found Dave Chappelle in the big sunglasses and striped tie directly behind Mugabe. Why isn't this in /r/photoshopbattles?

My god, it's perfect. http://www.reddit.com/r/photoshopbattles/comments/2uwfu4/psbattle_robert_mugabe_falling_from_his_podium/ [This one, holy shit](http://i.imgur.com/DjvugOM.jpg).

Well done, /u/well_that_went_wrong. I prefer [Mugabe surfing](http://i.imgur.com/KqehXiH.jpg) from /u/themightykobold [So much for him suppressing the photo!](http://i.imgur.com/FBD0UeP.jpg) Reminds me of this comic

http://www.people.eku.edu/davisb/africa/Zimbabwe.gif thats like almost really relevant. [This one's my favorite.](http://imgur.com/ixCx7aG)

^^Credit ^^to ^^/u/Chispy. Yep, no bias here Thanks! I made that one. Wait a minute... Unidan is just getting lazy now http://i.imgur.com/gdkaI.jpg That hurt my brain for about 5 seconds... glad I got it figured out. What am I missing here? Look at the username of the "Credit to /u/Chispy" post [deleted] Well, that's hilarious. You're Michelangelo? NO YOU DIDNT /u/chispy MADE THAT.  FUCK YOU Have you had a bang on the head? Thank you so much :) Either he saw a penny on the floor.. or it seems he just heard his favorite beat and was dropping down to it. You mean a billion dollar Zimbabwe coin. Reddit silver? please, even Reddit silver is worth more. [drop it old school](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1SLbHSsbMAU) Good call. Just submitted.  Hey aren't you the guy I really like because you put up with the same old joke to make some people happy? :) I hope. :) _

 [_](http://i.imgur.com/He011RM.jpg) I don't have to ask, I recognize you. You're from Battletoads. &amp;#3232;_&amp;#3232; Hey, how'd you get that reverse flair or whatever it's called? It just appeared one day. It kinda bugs me that whoever wrote it capitalised the 'h' in he.   Don't people do the same for god? Yes. That's why they do it for Warlizard. Are you unclekutter from the unclekutter white nation forums? [Hey, aren't you...](http://imgur.com/lB4X7pu) If you say so. :) How much karma would you estimate you've gotten from this whole thing? Enough to buy about 0/1000 of a Lambo. I don't know man, people on ebay will buy anything. True. Wtf is the warlizard gaming forum? Are you a big deal or something? [You must be new. Here, I will lead the way...](http://knowyourmeme.com/memes/warlizard-gaming-forum) Thanks Spidey! Holy shit. I always thought that there were actually Warlizard gaming forums and just never really got the funny in the whole thing.

*Noooooooow* I get it. Cool thanks for answering.

Second question: *Are* you the guy from the Warlizard gaming forums? _ Wait a minute... [you're a phony!](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jNGZo5gn_tc) [_](http://i.imgur.com/He011RM.jpg) Can you teach me? I'd have to charge. Just beautiful.      What do you want? Milkshakes Surprise me. Then install [Reddit Enhancement Suite](http://redditenhancementsuite.com/) and use the macro dropdown at the right of the text entry box. &amp;#3232;_&amp;#3232;&amp;#3232;_&amp;#3232;&amp;#3232;_&amp;#3232;&amp;#3232;_&amp;#3232;&amp;#3232;_&amp;#3232;&amp;#3232;_&amp;#3232;&amp;#3232;_&amp;#3232;&amp;#3232;_&amp;#3232;&amp;#3232;_&amp;#3232;&amp;#3232;_&amp;#3232;&amp;#3232;_&amp;#3232;&amp;#3232;_&amp;#3232;&amp;#3232;_&amp;#3232;&amp;#3232;_&amp;#3232;&amp;#3232;_&amp;#3232;&amp;#3232;_&amp;#3232;&amp;#3232;_&amp;#3232;&amp;#3232;_&amp;#3232;&amp;#3232;_&amp;#3232;&amp;#3232;_&amp;#3232;&amp;#3232;_&amp;#3232;&amp;#3232;_&amp;#3232;&amp;#3232;_&amp;#3232;&amp;#3232;_&amp;#3232;&amp;#3232;_&amp;#3232;&amp;#3232;_&amp;#3232;&amp;#3232;_&amp;#3232;&amp;#3232;_&amp;#3232;&amp;#3232;_&amp;#3232;&amp;#3232;_&amp;#3232;&amp;#3232;_&amp;#3232;&amp;#3232;_&amp;#3232;&amp;#3232;_&amp;#3232;&amp;#3232;_&amp;#3232;&amp;#3232;_&amp;#3232;&amp;#3232;_&amp;#3232;&amp;#3232;_&amp;#3232;&amp;#3232;_&amp;#3232;&amp;#3232;_&amp;#3232;&amp;#3232;_&amp;#3232;&amp;#3232;_&amp;#3232;&amp;#3232;_&amp;#3232;&amp;#3232;_&amp;#3232;&amp;#3232;_&amp;#3232;&amp;#3232;_&amp;#3232;&amp;#3232;_&amp;#3232;&amp;#3232;_&amp;#3232;&amp;#3232;_&amp;#3232;&amp;#3232;_&amp;#3232;&amp;#3232;_&amp;#3232;&amp;#3232;_&amp;#3232;&amp;#3232;_&amp;#3232;&amp;#3232;_&amp;#3232;&amp;#3232;_&amp;#3232;&amp;#3232;_&amp;#3232;&amp;#3232;_&amp;#3232;&amp;#3232;_&amp;#3232;&amp;#3232;_&amp;#3232;&amp;#3232;_&amp;#3232;&amp;#3232;_&amp;#3232;&amp;#3232;_&amp;#3232;&amp;#3232;_&amp;#3232;&amp;#3232;_&amp;#3232;&amp;#3232;_&amp;#3232;&amp;#3232;_&amp;#3232;&amp;#3232;_&amp;#3232;&amp;#3232;_&amp;#3232;&amp;#3232;_&amp;#3232;&amp;#3232;_&amp;#3232;&amp;#3232;_&amp;#3232;&amp;#3232;_&amp;#3232;&amp;#3232;_&amp;#3232;&amp;#3232;_&amp;#3232;&amp;#3232;_&amp;#3232;&amp;#3232;_&amp;#3232;&amp;#3232;_&amp;#3232;

What have I done. Yours just looks like a bunch of boobs
 &amp;#3232;_&amp;#3232; MY GOD I DID IT! &amp;#3232;_&amp;#3232;  yaaaaaaaaaay! &amp;#3232;_&amp;#3232;

awesome ^&amp;#3232; _&amp;#3232; &amp;#3232;_^&amp;#3232; Hey, aren't you that guy that sells vacuums door-to-door? Sex parties. I sell dildos and whew, the demonstrations can get cray cray. THAT's where I know you from. Boy, that Dilldozer sure did a number on me. It's worth it, but the recovery can be tough. Hey are you the warlizard from that photoshop battles forum? &amp;#3232;_&amp;#3232; Hey, aren't you the guy from Lizard Squad? No.  [hmmmm](http://puu.sh/fwgEL/264afa6f99.png) We can make Warlizard be anything we want him to be! Dad? Anything is possible. You know you're a reddit celebrity when there is more of a discussion about you than the thread in question. You may have even surpassed /u/Forthewolfx!  Who? Aren't you the guy from the warlizard forum? Ah yes, this is my beloved leader, complete dickhead, and mostly senile. Did you know he's turning 91 next month? 91. Yeah, no one celebrates that shit over here. His ruling party Zanu PF annually throw a lavish birthday for him, with a budget of over a million USD. This once great nation suffers and burns in the meantime. 91? I'm not even mad, that man looks 50. I'm told black does not crack. Compare Ernie Hudson now to the other Ghostbusters. [Bill Murray looks like a Dr Seuss Character](http://thefw.com/ghostbusters-then-and-now/). one is dead, so there's that. &gt; with a budget of over a million

If budget is million Zimbabwe dollars, then it's not even that lavish party. Except that there are no more Zim dollars in use and the US dollar is now the official currency. They're not allowed to have an official currency anymore since they broke the last one. It's not the official currency; it's one of many foreign currencies in use.  That's like $USD0.40. I don't like him either, but surely he deserves a slice of cake for his 91st. It's actually about $2800 USD. It is actually 1 million. However I guess we can't be sure since /u/MrSuperSaiyan didn't specify a currency, but Zimbabwe actually uses USD. Can you ELI5 how a foreign country in Africa can use that currency? Probably the same way Ecuador does. QWOP 2 - Mugabe Edition From /r/photoshopbattles :
http://i.imgur.com/1wPtgc2.jpg [might as well go the distance!](http://i.imgur.com/K7zUiuC.png) Stairs would be impossible in QWOP If there's a will there's a way He could almost play this off as a dance move if it wasn't for the guy in the back already wincing That's the face everybody makes when I dance.  [Dancin!](http://i.imgur.com/fdJcooS.jpg) The dance craze that's sweeping the nation \#themugabe.  [#themugabe](http://i3.cpcache.com/product/611726780/abraham_lincoln_mug.jpg?side=b&amp;height=225&amp;width=225)  &gt; Even Jesus would have tripped over the mislaid red carpet, Moyo said.

From ABC news story about Zimbabwean denial of an outright falling by Mugabe. I thought you were joking, but nope:          
       
&gt;Information Minister Jonathan Moyo on Thursday cited examples of leaders who have stumbled, from Jesus to George W. Bush    
      
Next time I fall, I'll be sure to bring up our Lord, yo. He looks pretty good for being 90 YEARS OLD! Seriously, how is that possible? Most 90 year olds who fall just break their hips and die, this motherfucker gets right back up and tries to purge the evidence.  He gets regular infusions of the blood of 16 year old virgins That's why 4chan is slowly emptying out. moot is kill, long live hotwheels Good guys die young. Assholes live forever. Black don't crack? Just about to post this.

90 years old, still living large and looking good. Anyone know his secret? Probably all of the life he's stolen from other people &gt; Anyone know his secret?

And which celebrities hate him?

That's also important. Too bad he didnt break his neck The dude in the middle looks like [Mr. Bubbles.](http://i.imgur.com/p5ZPsZz.jpg) Your knuckles say 'Cobra'. Did you ever kill anyone? That's his James Brown impression. Looks more to me like [Chuck Berry walk](http://dearestdamneddiary.files.wordpress.com/2011/01/mark_seliger-chuck_berry.jpg) Get Up (I Feel Like Being a) Tyrannical Despot Papa's got a brand new cattle prod do the stanky leg My liege,
I write to you with shocking news!  Robert Mugabe tried to have me assassinated to make sure I wouldn't discover his plot to post pictures of Robert Mugabe on the internet.

Your humble spymaster,
Robert Mugabe. Oh great another 'X wants this pic removed from the internet!!!' pic to be reposted every month alongside Beyonce and Justin Bieber under the pretense that you're fighting censorship. We did it reddit! Yeah, but this guy's actually pretty terrible, so posting embarrassing pictures of him is always a plus. Best way to spread something is by claiming that someone is trying to ban it. "The government banned this book. Buy it now." Slacktivism Tip-toeing in my Jordans. He may be a racist asshole dictator, but DAMN does that dude look good for 90.  his private security detail is a joke.....POTUS would have been gently caught, wrapped in a blanket and had a warm cup of cocoa with marshmellows in it by the time he neared the ground.  Is that before or after someone jumps the Whitehouse fence and runs around inside? Seriously.  They purged the Secret Service because they were doing a bad job...and that was BEFORE all the fence jumpings.

Don't even get me started on JFK, Lincoln, and Garfield.  Pathetic. And the dud hand grenade thrown at Bush. The shoe? http://imgur.com/D0zz5b0 dat ass He'd have been better off setting up a Twitter account to play it off as a sweet new dance move. Article - http://abcnews.go.com/International/wireStory/zimbabwean-government-denies-mugabe-fall-28743209 Why the hell is this a news story?  There's always a news story when a dictator falls. Ah, [good point](http://i1.mirror.co.uk/incoming/article84806.ece/alternates/s2197/american-marines-help-pull-down-the-statue-of-saddam-hussain-pic-m-552206832.jpg). Thought it was going to be this.

http://www.smh.com.au/ffximage/2004/10/21/castrotrips_wideweb__430x344.jpg Probably because he's so old. At 91, a fall can be fatal. Holy shit I thought he was like 55. Black don't crack Official version: the Earth gravitated towards Robert Mugabe's greatness. Too bad he didn't break his neck. Better luck next time carpet. Better luck next time Zimbabwe. Is... Is he wearing stocking? So thatttttssss the rich African prince who wants me to wire him 3000$  He looks like he's about to bust a move and launch into a mad break-dance routine. So come on fatso and bust a move. This here's a jam for all the fellas.
Tryin to do what those ladies tell us.
Get shot down cause ya over-zealous.

I love that song

And I wouldn't mind if Mugabe got shot down ....fo' real Halt! Hammerzeit! Psbattle? http://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-2941209/Did-enjoy-trip-certainly-did-Robert-Mugabe-orders-Internet-delete-images-falling-event-responds.html Somebody needs to put him hanging ten on a surfboard. http://i.imgur.com/McmoakV.jpg Too bad he didn't break his neck.  This photo is in desperate need of a Photoshop Battle.  Everybody around him looks like... "Meh." "Tip Toeing in my Jordans"  Nigga you be trippin [Imgur](http://i.imgur.com/2xzIoyJ.jpg)

[Imgur](http://i.imgur.com/iwFSp0j.jpg)

[Imgur](http://i.imgur.com/UXNakBG.jpg) Its funny that not one single dude in the background looks concerned or that they want to help him.  Every last one looks like they saying "Good that nigga deserve some shit" Get fucked Mugabe, fucking die already Honestly it just looks like he's dancing and has some pretty sweet moves. Bump Run Shadowfax. Show us the meaning of haste. Run Brego. Show us the meaning of typical horse speed. Run Bill. Show us...what a pretty okay pony you are...I guess.  Bahahaa!  Good ol' Bill. 

That name, right in the middle of all the other majestic names, places, etc.. Just always tickles me. I love it. 

Edit: you actually underestimate him. He was the most badass pony ever to pony:
http://m.imgur.com/gallery/LvUCjmG I don't know. Bela is at least in the running for most badass horse ever. Very funny Aragorn. See if I pull your old ass out the river next time. I laughed at this way harder than is likely socially acceptable.  I've always wondered why shadowfax was white. Have you ever tried to fax a shadow? It just doesn't come out the same.  Goddammit, out of toner *again*?  Will you morons stop faxing entire horses!

Look, this one came through pure, shiny white!  Better hope it can outrun predators! &gt; Better hope it can outrun *nazguls*!

FTFY I mean. They kinda are predators. Tomato, tomahto. It's Levi-OH-sa, not Levi-oh-SA.  [It's Levio-SAAAAH](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=FWtO0cfgewY) Do you need any toner today?,
No,
May I ask why?,
Because Im going to kill myself,     
*friends* Dude. Predators have spaceships. Not even Shadowfax is that good. A bit like his sister, the Rohirrim's prized mare "Highlighterscan" It's so hard to tell if it goes face up or face down  *Thank you for subscribing to shadow facts!* You can't just ask people why they're white. That moment when you scroll down to see if someone else had posted your stupid Mean Girls quote already, and yes, they did.  Damn it. I think he was grey in the books. I imagine they made him white in the movies to make him look more regal.  'There are three,' said Legolas, gazing out over the plain. 'See how they run! There is Hasufel, and there is my friend Arod beside him! But there is another that strides ahead: a very great horse. I have not seen his like before.'

'Nor will you again,' said Gandalf. 'That is Shadowfax. He is the chief of the "Mearas", lords of horses, and not even Theoden, King of Rohan, has ever looked on a better. Does he not shine like silver, and run as smoothly as a swift stream? He has come for me: the horse of the White Rider. We are going to battle together.' So much badassness has rarely been fit in to just two paragraphs. The books are so damn cool.  You want badass?  I give you badass:

In rode the Lord of the Nazgl. A great black shape against the fires beyond he loomed up, grown to a vast menace of despair. In rode the Lord of the Nazgl, under the archway that no ememy ever yet had passed, and all fled before his face.

All save one. There waiting, silent and still in the space before the Gate, sat Gandalf upon Shadowfax: Shadowfax who alone amoung the free horses of the earth endured the terror, unmoving, steadfast as a graven image in Rath Dnin.

'You cannot enter here,' said Gandalf, and the huge shadow halted. 'Go back to the abyss prepared for you! Go back! Fall into the nothingness that awaits you and your master. Go!'
The Black Rider flung back his hood, and behold! he had a kingly crown; and yet upon no head visible was it set. The red fires shone between it and the mantled shoulders vast and dark. From a mouth unseen there came a deadly laughter.

'Old fool!' he said. 'Old fool! This is my hour. Do you not know death when you see it? Die now and curse in vain!' And with that he lifted high his sword and flames ran down the blade.

Gandalf did not move. And in that very moment, away behind in some courtyard of the City, a cock crowed. Shrill and clear he crowed, recking nothing of wizardry or war, welcoming only the morning that in the sky far above the shadows of death was coming with the dawn.

And as if in answer there came from far away another note. Horns, horns, horns. In dark Mindolluin's sides they dimly echoed. Great horns of the North wildly blowing. Rohan had come at last. Good GODS how I love those books!!!

You've just convinced me it's time to read them again. And damnit if I wasn't right on the verge of starting the Dark Tower series again!  

AAARGH, there are just too many incredible books in this world! Not enough time for them all!! Then Fingolfin beheld... the utter ruin of the Noldor, and the defeat beyond redress of all their houses; and filled with wrath and despair he mounted upon Rochallor his great horse and rode forth alone, and none might restrain him. He passed over Dor-nu-Fauglith like a wind amid the dust, and all that beheld his onset fled in amaze, thinking that Orom himself was come: for a great madness of rage was upon him, so that his eyes shone like the eyes of the Valar. Thus he came alone to Angband's gates, and he sounded his horn, and smote once more upon the brazen doors, and challenged Morgoth to come forth to single combat. And Morgoth came.

That was the last time in those wars that he passed the doors of his stronghold, and it is said that he took not the challenge willingly; for alone of the Valar he knew fear. But he could not now deny the challenge before the face of his captains; for Fingolfin named Morgoth craven.Therefore Morgoth issued forth clad in black armour; and he stood before the King like a tower, iron-crowned, and his vast shield, sable unblazoned, cast a shadow over him like a stormcloud. But Fingolfin gleamed beneath it as a star; for his mail was overlaid with silver, and his blue shield was set with crystals; and he drew his sword Ringil, that glittered like ice.

Then Morgoth hurled aloft Grond, the Hammer of the Underworld, and swung it down like a bolt of thunder. But Fingolfin sprang aside, and Grond rent a mighty pit in the earth. Many times Morgoth essayed to smite him, and each time Fingolfin leaped away; and he wounded Morgoth with seven wounds, and seven times Morgoth gave a cry of anguish, whereat the hosts of Angband fell upon their faces in dismay, and the cries echoed in the Northlands.

But at the last the King grew weary, and Morgoth bore down his shield upon him. Thrice he was crushed to his knees, and thrice arose again and bore up his broken shield and stricken helm. But the earth was all pitted about him, and he stumbled and fell backward before the feet of Morgoth; and Morgoth set his left foot upon his neck. Yet with his last and desperate stroke Fingolfin hewed the foot with Ringil, and the blood gushed forth black and smoking and filled the pits of Grond.

Thus died Fingolfin, High King of the Noldor, most proud and valiant of the Elven-kings of old. Spectacular! It's been even longer since I've read The Silmarillion.  Are you Stephen Colbert? Can't go wrong with Dark Tower or Lord of the Rings, give me a Gawd-bomb, give me hallelujah!  Dark Tower gets a bit weak in the last two books though... O Discordia! [It's not fair]( http://imgur.com/mthKBM9) This was my absolute favorite scene in the books. The absolute amount of badass. And the movie did it ZERO justice. I was livid and ranted to no end about it to my wife, who looked on confused and just rolled her eyes. The extended edition of the movies did worse than "zero justice".  It destroyed the whole scene by showing the Witch King defeating Gandalf and breaking his staff. That irked me, because the original scene was by far the best in the entire books, and they changed it and made Gandalf seem weak sauce.  Gandalf should be more powerful than the Witchking.  Urg. I complain about this moment in the extended edition constantly to anyone who will listen. For me, it's the absolute worst botch of the trilogy.  *sploosh* Gives me chills every time. Fuck, that gives me chills everytime I read it. I get that people have trouble with the prose and the pace of the books, but they are perfect imo.  Ahh, such epic. I had forgotten its glory. Reading that gave me tingles There is no greater series (in my humble opinion). They are completely immersive. 

I read them all out loud to a group of friends while we drove on a three-week road trip, years before the movies. It was a really great experience that we all enjoyed. They'd beg me to start reading again as soon as we got back in the van. 

When the movies came out, we watched them together. It was really special for us all.  The horn blasting apart may be one of my favorite things in Lord of the Rings


"Now silently the host of Rohan moved forward into the field of Gondor, pouring in slowly but steadily....

After a while the king led his men away somewhat eastward, to come between the fires of the siege and the outer fields. Still they were unchallenged, and still Thoden gave no signal.... A smell of burning was in the air and a very shadow of death. The horses were uneasy. But the king sat upon Snowmane, motionless, gazing upon the agony of Minas Tirith, as if stricken suddenly by anguish, or by dread. He seemed to shrink down, cowed by age. Merry himself felt as if a great weight of horror and doubt had settled on him.... They were too late! Too late was worse than never!....

Then suddenly Merry felt it at last, beyond doubt: a change. Wind was in his face! Light was glimmering....

But at that same moment there was a flash, as if lightning had sprung from the earth beneath the City. For a searing second it stood dazzling far off in black and white, its topmost tower like a glittering needle: and then as the darkness closed again there came rolling over the fields a great boom.

At that sound the bent shape of the king sprang suddenly erect. Tall and proud he seemed again; and rising in his stirrups he cried in a loud voice, more clear than any there had ever heard a mortal man achieve before:

    Arise, arise, Riders of Thoden!
    Fell deeds awake: fire and slaughter!
    spear shall be shaken, shield be splintered,
    a sword-day, a red day, ere the sun rises!
    Ride now, ride now! Ride to Gondor!

With that he seized a great horn from Guthlf his banner-bearer, and he blew such a blast upon it that it burst asunder. And straightway all the horns in the host were lifted up in music, and the blowing of the horns of Rohan in that hour was like a storm upon the plain and a thunder in the mountains.

    Ride now, ride now! Ride to Gondor!

Suddenly the king cried to Snowmane and the horse sprang away. Behind him his banner blew in the wind, white horse upon a field of green, but he outpaced it. After him thundered the knights of his house, but he was ever before them. omer rode there, the white horsetail on his helm floating in his speed, and the front of the first ored roared like a breaker foaming to the shore, but Thoden could not be overtaken. Fey he seemed, or the battle-fury of his fathers ran like new fire in his veins, and he was borne up on Snowmane like a god of old, even as Orom the Great in the battle of the Valar when the world was young. His golden shield was uncovered, and lo! it shone like an image of the Sun, and the grass flamed into green about the white feet of his steed. For morning came, morning and a wind from the sea; and the darkness was removed, and the hosts of Mordor wailed, and terror took them, and they fled, and died, and the hoofs of wrath rode over them. And then all the host of Rohan burst into song, and they sang as they slew, for the joy of battle was on them, and the sound of their singing that was fair and terrible came even to the City." I had to leave my living room where my roomates were because I teared up so much reading this.  Thank you. Thank Christ, I thought I was alone in this.  [deleted] He became less about fun tricks and such, and more of a man on a mission. He wasn't brought back to build fireworks, he was brought back to help defeat Sauron His fireworks helped defeat Sauron.  Yes, one of the hobits noted that he was more distant, but laughed more than ever. Yes I believe that was Pippin. The books are 1000x greater than the movies. The movies are still amazing. Aside from the whole Tom Bombadil part. It really had no apparent purpose in the plot. It was a very "The Hobbit"-like story wedged into the overall piece, and has always seemed out of place to me. An interesting read on a possible purpose of Tom Bombadil:

http://tolkien.cro.net/else/bbeier.html

And another, very different one:

http://km-515.livejournal.com/1042.html That second one is brilliant.  The ending to the second one had me in stitches. Both are absolutely amazing in how they pull from the source material, but I personally liked the first in terms of analyzing what purpose Bombadil played in the story! But obviously one of the greatest parts about it is that we don't have to agree! All the good reads... they convince me even more than Tom Bombadil and his wife represent the temptation of "giving up", losing hope and committing suicide because you just can't take the obstacles in front of you. Death can be absolution, something sweet and beautiful, and I think that is what Bombadil represents. His wife ("spirit of the river") very much shows all signs of a woman who drowns herself, they were usually depicted exactly like Goldberry. And while the Hobbits struggle with death (see being killed by the tree...) Frodo can barely resist the temptation to get absolution of his quest by Bombadil. But I think Bombadil sees in the Hobbits the will to fight, because some people, especially those who are happy and contempt and *want to protect what is dear to them and what is dear to those they want to protect*, can overcome their fears and find strength in the thought that they could end it anyways, but that they have to fight for now. I think that's why Bombadil not only helps them, but literally gives them weapons to fight their fears.

So no, Bombadil isn't evil. He might draw evil creatures to his domain, but at the same time he takes away their terror and makes them kind of funny? bearable? Just what suicide does to the aspect of "death".

Not a natural english speaker, so my wording might be weird there sometimes. Hope you get the point. :) I haven't read the LOTR series since 5th grade. I should read them again, especially now that I can actually absorb such writing. I think white horses are referred to as "greys"  You're right. They're born dark and whiten as they age. Woah, TIL:

&gt;Gray or grey is a coat color of horses characterized by progressive silvering of the colored hairs of the coat.[1] Most gray horses have black skin and dark eyes; unlike many depigmentation genes, gray does not affect skin or eye color.[1] Their adult hair coat is white, dappled, or white intermingled with hairs of other colors. Gray horses may be born any base color, depending on other color genes present. **White hairs begin to appear at or shortly after birth and become progressively lighter as the horse ages**. Graying can occur at different ratesvery quickly on one horse and very slowly on another.

[Wikipedia on Gray Horses](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gray_%28horse%29) It's "Sceadufx" in the Rhorric tongue. Spelling it this way is the equivalent of "Romanization" for the "common" language of Middle-Earth.  Also, "faxe" means "mane" in Norse. Hence the horse pulling the sun and the moon being named "Skinfakse" and "Rimfakse". That's "Shining mane" and "Dew mane". [deleted] "EEEEEEEE. BEEP BEEP BEEP." Dammit Shadow Fax, I'll just have to attach it in an email then. Cry havoc and let slip the frogs of war.  All the world's a lilypad.  What is your name, gladiator?

[Froggy turns away.]

How dare you show your back to me! You will remove your helmet and tell me your name!

[Froggy slowly turns and removes his helmet.]

Froggy: My name is Froggy Decimus Meridius, Commander of the Armies of the North pond, General of the Felix Legions of the undertow, loyal servant to the true emperor toad, Marcus Aurelius. Father to a murdered tadpole, husband to a murdered frogette. And I will have my vengeance, in this life or the next. What's voidspace? [deleted] [deleted] Whatever farm animal of war, Lana Come back to me, I had something for this. Et tu, frogay?  *Fine.* Have your fucking upvote. are you penguin? No. *Finally*, this question has gone unanswered for too long. I bet he's lying. Probably to protect his identity. Fucking penguin relocation program. Probably sitting on a porch in Iowa, sipping a lemonade with that meerkat who snitched out Joey Buttons. [Battle of the two armies](http://i.imgur.com/iaKhRxo.jpg) [This] (https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SLJllk-0o6c#t=2m24s) just started playing in my head. [My poor photoshop skills](http://i.imgur.com/VWB0AVt.jpg) Are better than most!

Well done Don't be so hard on yourself, It was very well done. You did your best and I think you're a sweetie for doing it. I very much appreciated it. I hope you have a lovely happy weekend. :-)  Thank you. Some shadows under the bugs would have been good i think New desktop wallpaper. Thanks! https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ewH-Hxj_suM I just played out the fight scene in my head.  The frog now has the beetle and snail yoked together and is pressing onward.  

Hopper isn't ready for this battle. Praying Mantis, not a grasshopper. For me its [this](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7AlEvy0fJto) one.  And for me [this one](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=C3CKb3FuG4E) This has been my alarm clock for months and I never wish to turn it off. It's such an epic song to get up to.  Awesome! Have a up-arrow thingy... A boost  http://i.imgur.com/9zxnJaw.gif Three armies...

http://imgur.com/crw9iaK Photoshop battles pls! [I tried.](http://i.stack.imgur.com/Cnmo1.jpg) I didn't even know about that "stack imgur" thing, so, you're already better than me. [Frog + Beetle combo OP.](https://i.imgur.com/rawNWYf.png) I envision the mantis/snail duo as being far more zen. Like shaolin monks. I envision the frog/mini rhino fucking their shit up. That is the most godless biological machine that I've ever seen (Make that three.)[http://i.imgur.com/STYqxai.jpg] [A challenger appears!](http://imgace.com/wp-content/uploads/2013/07/frog-knight-rides-beetle-steed.jpg) Amateurs...

http://i.imgur.com/q1knaly.jpg I used to think a Dodge Viper was a cool ride.  have you seen the new one? [sexy](http://carswallpaper.net/wp-content/uploads/2014/10/2015-Dodge-Viper-ACR-High-Resolution-Picture-800x600.jpg). [FIFY](http://i.imgur.com/sHgTS0I.jpg) FIFY: Frogged it for you? They are right to mock Hamster for loving these things. That looks like a melty Jolly Rancher. He always was the most American out of the 3 Ok, what is it with tree frogs riding things? When your practically a walking adhesive, why would you not ride things? Good point.  http://i.imgur.com/yjyjU.jpg [And the meek shall inherit the earth.](http://imgur.com/se2YoZc) turtle riding a jellyfish

http://i.imgur.com/nlrZp4U.jpg That looks insanely comfortable. I'm jealous of a turtle. You jelly? https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Tmx1jpqv3RA Didn't this happen in that movie, Ice Age? No you're thinking of Finding Nemo, I'm pretty sure Ice Age was a movie about a bobsled team from Jamaica. No, that's Cool Runnings. I'm pretty sure Ice Age was about the modern world freezing over. No that's The Day After Tomorrow. I'm pretty sure Ice Age was the movie about the snow cone competition. I guess it would look insanely comfortable if I had no idea what a Jellyfish was. Riding... Or slowly being eaten? :( Wrong side. Most jelly fish are harmless from above. 

They keep all their stingers and digestive juices on the tendrils.  Isn't this the picture that when posted the comments always reveal the turtle is just a toy,  not a live turtle?  Great, I moved to this new server to get away from elitist pricks, and here's this guy showing off his Black Qiraji mount. In that silly BlizzCon 2007 Murloc Suit no less. Mrrgrgrgrrrrhghrggrgggghhhhhrrrgghrhghr http://i.imgur.com/FIOrWxE.jpg I feel like the sword just provides the image of authority. No one wants to mess with the guy holding a sword. Especially in Warhammer 40K.  Never bring a gun to a sword fight.   But i bring power claws into gun fights everytime. How else would i be able to destroy thoses fucking tanks. Yeah, well, a lot of boyz are needed ... but still, it works. What do you know ... of melta? No, of course not. You're supposed to bring *storm bolters* to sword fights, not guns. What are you, some kind of tribal savage, using slug-throwers? How about a storm bolter built into matched power fists?

At least, that's how I roll. It's like getting into a fight in the street, and the guy you're fighting takes off his shoes. It's like "This guy knows something that I don't know. I think I'm gonna pass on getting my doodoo hole prolapsed by this dude, tonight." [So what do you do when this happens?](http://i.imgur.com/VTpAiZX.gif) Bring your chin down to protect your neck while continuing to stare in his eyes. Bring up your hands and say "I don't want no trouble ya hear". Flex your traps and core. Slightly bend your knees.

Here comes the important part. In a low voice begin to say "wolowolowolowolowolo" slowly increasing in volume. He should be surprised by now. Begin to sway side to side and loosen all facial muscles and your anal sphincter and your kegal muscle. By now you should be pretty loud and your opponent will have stepped back and appear visibly shaken.

Begin to piss and shit yourself and let your eyes roll to the back of your head. By now, you're chanting "WOLOWOLOWOLOWOLO" at the top of your lungs.

He will run away. Everyone within a one mile radius will feel a terrifying presence within their soul.

Marvel as you ascend into your planar form. This is pretty much exactly correct.

The instant someone strips down to fight you, your first and foremost reaction should be to void your bladder and bowels immediately, and if need be, rub the mess on yourself like some sort of foul body armor.

Some people may fight a naked guy. *Nobody* will want to wrestle a man covered in his own shit and piss. Where is the person who tells us what is really going on in the photo? Like, the frog secretes a terrible poison and the frog is stuck on the beetle and sucking out its guts and creating a zombie beetle?

Those always depress me.  Fascinating, yet depressing. I heard that what people are doing is actually drugging the animals then posing them for photos using easy to shop out strings. So don't worry it's still depressing.  This is most likely the right answer. [Almost definitely.](http://heejennwei.blogspot.co.uk/2013/08/pseudo-nature-photographers-of-indonesia.html) The hand is held up and the mouth held open by fishing line that was photoshopped out. The frog *might* even be super-glued to the beetle. Such practices have become widespread among Indonesian "nature" photographers. For Rohan! And the worlds ending.

DEATHHHHHH
 Frog looks like it's all hopped up on something.  More like glued down. 

Pretty sure most nature images like this are posed with the animals adhered in a certain position. And then they're killed afterwards.  I hoped your were joking, but [now I'm sad](http://heejennwei.blogspot.co.uk/2013/08/pseudo-nature-photographers-of-indonesia.html). I came into this thread happily amused, and now I'm just upset and annoyed. Just another day in the cat food label design office.

"OK Tiddles, you've served your purpose." **BLAM!** "Parker! Bring in the next kitten please!" I hope he doesn't croak. If I've toad you once, I've toad you a thousand times - noone likes pun threads.  My new desktop at work:

https://imgur.com/p7sl4yS This is hilarious.  Did you find a higher res photo? Pretty sure mine would look pixelated on my screen. [deleted] It wasn't porn! Yay! :( I have a vague memory of reading the photographer getting into some trouble for staging these pictures. Yeah animal abuse iirc. These sort of shots are usually staged.  Yeah yeah yeah, cute pic. In all reality though, speaking as a long time amphibian lover, staging these pictures can be quite dangerous for the frog. They have such delicate skin, and they stress so easily. Just touching them with bare hands can hurt them. I read a blog a while back about how the animals are held up like puppets with fishing line but they are too exhausted to release themselves.

The way these images are created is really sad.

Here's the blog post: [Pseudo-nature Photographers](http://heejennwei.blogspot.co.uk/2013/08/pseudo-nature-photographers-of-indonesia.html) Well that's a fucking downer. Well I'm not sure if this is going to make you feel better or worse, but generally these photos are dead frogs propped up.  I don't know about this specific one though. Anyone remember this guy from Majora's Mask? http://www.zeldadungeon.net/Zelda06/Bosses/2_Gekko1.jpg yes, unfortunately I remember that little shit... Scarab Lord [Frog] Reptilian leader...check

Insect like vehicle...check

This is Halo IRL...

Edit: I realize Frogs are amphibians. Apparently these are all fake and staged.

http://gizmodo.com/those-adorable-animal-pics-may-be-fake-and-cruel-1173395567 It's like that one level on Battletoads! Do you want to make me read Redwall again, OP?

Because that's how you make me want to read Redwall again. this is like when you're at a bar, get a hot chick's number, and go back to your bros for a high five. all while riding a beetle.  These Skyrim mods are getting crazy.  Arise, arise, Riders of Thoden! Fell deeds awake: fire and slaughter!

Spear shall be shaken, shield be splintered, a sword-day, a red day, ere the sun rises!

Ride now, ride now! Ride to Gondor! I instantly read that in voice of a knight from Chivalry medieval warfare. FOR AGATHA!! Was going to say "Forth Eorlingas!" but two other people put LOTR references first.

So, "Despite Humperdinck's reassurance that she would grow to love him, the only joy she found was in her daily beetle ride." To the front page! This needs to be on /r/photoshopbattles froakie vs heracross How does one acquire such an exotic mount? I am I, Don Quixote the Lord of La Mancha my destiny calls and I go. And the wild winds of fortune will carry me onward oh whither soever they blow. Whither soever they blow, onward to glory I go! 
 [/r/photoshopbattles](http://www.reddit.com/r/photoshopbattles) I never knew the name of those bugs so I always called them Heracross I would watch this movie.  I strangely want to put a sword in its hand and get tattoo of it. Sancho!
*Here, your grace!*
My Armor! My sword!! This is the perfect title [deleted] Imagine if those motherfukers were the size of rhinos. It would be like a goddamn battle tank walking around. This has to be staged by the photographer right?  What are the odds that a frog jumps on the back of a horned beetle, poses, and there's someone with a camera waiting for it?   For freedom! https://m.youtube.com/watch?v=wTcrWUU-EeA We stand no chance, relinquish your houses now! For Narnia!  Battletoads If the frog is small enough to ride the beetle, this is cute.
If the beetle is large enough to be ridden by a frog, this is where I nope out of here. Evangelion Unit 00 riding on top of Unit 01 Battletoads? Battletoads! But really, who is trying to eat whom in this picture?
 nice I, for one, welcome our new beetle mounted amphibian overlords.  None of this has any basis of fact, but then again it is reddit so I'll continue. I imagine since this frog is colored such as he is, they are probably trying to poison the shit out of that beetle thingy.  I hope this isn't another posed Indonesian photo :/ Haha such an epic pic! made my day.
 haha same!! :) I LOVE this picture, does anyone know where i can find a higher res version? :) Damn that's a nice quality photo FOR GONDOR Oh no the Dawngate Feels ;-; Never played Flin but still... Same, feels all the same I like that those doors shut. It's called a 'snug', they're a fairly common feature in classic style bars in Ireland and UK. The best ones will be at the side of the bar and have a sliding wooden window you can open to order drinks for the group without having to get up or queue! like on the show Peaky Blinders? That's awesome! PEEKY BLINDAS But why would you want to miss out on queuing? :( Belfast is British after all...

/ducks &amp; runs for cover Brave Sir Robin ran away! Yes, this was where the unescorted ladies would go to sit. Imagine how wicked it would be to sit in there with a few friends, pints, and a board game or something.

EDIT: There are a lot of people that seem to think this is a weird idea. I like the atmosphere. I once saw 4 people in a really scuzzy German bar playing risk. It was awesome. This sounds awesome. Shut the box and a fist full of dollars.  In reality, these type of places tend to be full of[ American tourists talking about muh heritage](http://i.imgur.com/uHq18J7.jpg) [deleted] I feel like my IQ has fallen a tad. Aye begorrah!

 Erin go bragh That's why the doors shut, so you can get away from the tourists. Americans who think they're irish are the worst. 

Source: I live in Chicago and they call themselves Chirish.  You need to delete this comment, if MTV or Bravo get a hold of that term we'll have another reality show on our hands. Fighting Chirish...I'm cringing already. Chirish Mafia Chirish shore  We do?  Same goes for Americans who think they're German.
My old bud had a German grandfather who he met a few times. He's the only one in his family who considers himself to be German and constantly refers to Germans as 'we'. Americans who claim a culture they know nothing about are the worst period.  They are so much worse in Boston. I have a very Irish last name and couldn't care less about "Irish heritage". American tourist here.  No Irish heritage.  This place is so awesome I would go there with my German/Swedish genes and talk like a fucking leprechaun while downing Guinness. I read the "while downing Guinness" as "while downing ***me*** Guinness".... you converted me into a fucking leprechaun I'm close to 100% sure that's a troll I believe the correct word is leprechaun. If you're talking about the movie...I'm in A board game of hookers and blow let me know when this is happening...  sure thing, hooker Hookers&amp;BlowBot:  Remind me Hookers&amp;RemindBot: Blow me Blow&amp;MeBot: Remind hookers Peeking out at hot girls walking by, giggling.   You just described DnD DND set in the victorian era while played in a 190 year old pub in Belfast? I'd dig it. This would cost so much money to get my D&amp;D group to do, but I feel like it would be SOOOOO worth it. Going to have to wait for my son to reach the legal drinking age, so I got a little time.  I would be so down for this game.  something = huge bag of coke and many loose womens Ah, the humble Snug (That's what we Irish call the area of the pub where you can close a door over but still have access to the bar). In a pub in Kildare we often go early just to get the snug. In this particular  pub, the bar runs all along the side wall and the snug has it's own private section of the bar. It's awesome.  That would be such an amazing feature at all restaurants.  And if you could do all your ordering and request service/pay directly from a tablet at the table.   This is something that is actually happening at chain restaurants in the US--Chili's and Applebee's have each implemented them. As a server that would suck to have tables walled off. However, as a frequent bar patron that'd be amazing to have.  Why would it suck?  Door closed?  Skip it, Door open "hi guys, what can I get you?".

So easy, so efficient, you spend no time at all bothering people who don't need/want anything right now. Haha - have you ever MET people?  They'd sit in there for 15 minutes with the door closed, then complain to management and Yelp that their server didn't check on them for 'hours.' It's an Irish pub - you get off your arse and get your own drinks from the bar ! "Hey man, can I get a beer!?"  "Sure, but you came to the wrong bar if you think I'm gonna bring it to you." You order your own drinks in these bars. They don't have cocktail servers. Real Irish pubs don't have "servers". 

They have barmen. Who stand behind the bar. And are men.  I would love this. I have mild social anxiety but it's magnified when in busy restaurants for some reason.

Chili's during peak dinner hours on like a friday is the *worst* thing ever. Closing my booth would be awesome.

 May I ask, with all possible due respect, why you would choose to go out and eat somewhere at a place and time that causes you such anxiety? original chicken crispers  Fuck that, southwestern egg rolls  I assume 50 shades of Ray was taken? This is the one true answer.  I'm a honey chipotle chicken crisper fan myself.  [No need to leave the house](http://chilisathome.blogspot.com/2011/08/honey-chipotle-chicken-crispers.html?m=1)  honey anything is awesome.  &gt; [honey anything is awesome.](http://www.blogilates.com/wp-content/uploads/2013/01/belly.gif)

 &gt; [honey anything is awesome](http://i.imgur.com/04O8fCL.gif) finally someone who understands! those things are amazing. unless they arent. which has happened to me before, but i consider it a fluke. normally they're like a stupidly greasy ambrosia.  You ever dip that shit into the Chili's queso? im going to *say* "no". but feel free to interpret that as a "yes." im sorry, i cannot comment any further on the matter.  \* tendies Does Chili's accept Good Boy Points as payment? Not enough to get that good feeling off mommy.  Not OP obviously, but I'd hazard a guess that it's because they have friends who like to go out and they want to go with them and try and not let the anxiety surrounding the situation win out.  As someone who has social anxiety. This is exactly the reason. You hate going out to places but you also hate being alone. It's a Catch 22 and is by far the worst aspect of social anxiety. 
 Cause friends, probably. I definitely don't choose to anymore, but sometimes you're with other people and they want to eat, and you go with them. Typically those people are people I drink with nowadays, and once I have a drink I don't care anymore about my surroundings so it's fine. If it's on me to pick a place to eat at I pick places that are hardly ever mega crowded but still nice, like independently owned pizza places and shit.


Plus, like I said it's just mild anxiety. I don't have panic attacks or anything, and typically am care-free in other public places, but something about very crowded restaurants just puts me on edge.

 I have all of those same feelings.  Shit usually ends up just fine, but the drive over is the worst. My husband is like this. Getting him out is so hard, but once he's out he has a great time.  &gt; My husband is like this. Getting him hard is so great, but once he's out he has a time out.

I felt like rearranging some of the words in your comment. And the cancellation of plans feels like sweet relief. I'm pretty much the same way as the previous person. I get really bad social anxiety going basically anywhere crowded. Grocery stores, restaurants, movies, the mall... I even skipped school because I hated being around that many people.

 I go out because I'm not going to spend my life being a hermit in my own house. My family will invite me places when they want to go out to dinner on the weekend. My sister invites me to go to midnight showings of movies with her even though there are a ton of people there. I have to go to grocery stores, other wise I would die of starvation. 

Basically when someone has anxiety, they still want to go places. They just feel super uncomfortable there. I love going to the mall, but I also hate going because it always feels like everyone is staring at me. But I'm not going to stop going because of that reason. Good on you for breaking out of that man, I don't have social anxiety but prefer to be alone and often feel uncomfortably closed in if I'm surrounded by people.  Gained confidence works wonders in being able to function daily, sometimes you need to go to the grocery store in the last few minutes it's open to have some quiet, but then you can push yourself to bustling restaurants and bars. I have social anxiety, and I still like to try to get myself out in public. It's torture some times, but others I can make it through the meal, and it doesn't hit me til I am almost home. It's good practice to still try to interact and be in social settings.  Chilliiissssss baby back ribs, chili's baby back ribs, barbecue sauce.  Cuzz the family is hungry and they don't understand what social anxiety is like. Well having social anxiety yes these situation really bother you but nothing is worse than being alone. It's the Catch 22 and by far the worst part of having social anxiety issues.
 He's probably not suggesting it but also doesn't want to act reclusive when invited out by other people. I'll add to the answers you've gotten: Because my few close friends like going and I like to hang out with them... and no one has to play host. http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pub#Snug Chili's? Jesus. Fuck yeah. Even in a restaurant, have the door shut the entire time and a little notice that goes up whenever you need some sort of service.

 Might be easier on the waitresses and waiters as well so they don't have to keep stopping at every table to make sure everything is alright, just approach the booths that have the service notice engaged. Kinda like a porta-potty occupied slot :p This would be ideal for getting wasted with my bros and not having to worry about constantly swatting off hot chicks trying to get my number. Father... get in here I have a lot on my mind , just a shot and a beer ,thanks . More of a priv than a pub. I've been to a few Japanese restaurants with booths that have doors which close. Fantastic experience. The Crown Pub? Was there for St Patrick's Day 2003...beautiful workmanship! No, no. That was the 178 year old pub.  This one's 190 years old. wow, 2003 was 12 years ago Oh shit. She's only 12? THAT'S A CONFESSION. GET HIM BOYS! But it's the same pu-- oh, I see what you did there. arf! You could work as a writer for any lame sitcom! *cues crowd laughter* Waits for next line *boring line, gets a few chuckles*

immediately followed by:

*short line, 4-6 words long, audience in hysterics* Yowza Wowza Bobowza Looks like it to me! I had lunch there one time. Steak and Guinness pie. I haven't found another place that makes it as good. [deleted] It's essentially a steak and stout pie, like one of these:

http://i.imgur.com/J1M5tpr.jpg

http://i.imgur.com/l4RWWsn.jpg now I want a pie... The pie is essentially a thick stew inside a pie crust. The Guinness and the steak are both part of the stew. Didn't Anthony Bourdain go here in one episode? He did, at the end of a black cab tour of the city.  One with a catholic and then a protestant.  They ended up there and had a pint and some stew I believe. So Anthony Bourdain, a Catholic, and a Protestant all walked into a bar... ...they had stew. Wow. I bet Stew's ass was really sore. [Spectacular all around, really](http://imgur.com/FbMhgnh) ...Then you spin around 180 degrees and you have the [most bombed hotel in the world](http://i.imgur.com/cS0f9X4.jpg)
 Yep, I'm amazed the pub survived being literally across the road from the Europa ([blasted by bombs between 5 and 33 times](http://www.forces.org/writers/james/files/ni.htm)) Interesting - most old corner bars in the US have one entrance at 45 degrees, thus allowing equal access from both streets. 

Hence, congressional gridlock. Called a snug. One of the best things about old Irish pubs.  
[snug](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pub#Snug) More like the room in Peaky Blinders than what is shown in the photo. They were rooms and not booths.  Peaky Fucking Blinders!!! Can't wait for season 3 on Netflix. Great show. PEAKY FOOKIN BLINDERS  a pub i used to frequent made good use of a confessional for this purpose Well that explains the name of a bar in burbank that I went to a couple weeks ago. My local was built in the 14th century. Makes this look shiny and new. your pub is older than my country  South Sudan? The United States? The Ununited States of Sudan USS! USS! USS! Just about everything is older than the United States. Texas? Lots of countries are younger than the 14th century...the vast majority of them actually. It could be argued that most modern countries didn't really exist in the 14th century despite having "civilized" populations living in them. So...almost all of them if you take that route. Indeed, the idea of a nation state, or what we know as the modern country, did not come into being until the 1648 [Treaty of Westphalia](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Westphalian_sovereignty). Wow, I added some letters. Read that as: 'Treaty of Westphiladelphia' Its where countries were born and raised. Or virtually any modern country. So, uhh South Sudan maybe? The Ottoman Empire? That was before ottomans were furniture, this is while they were still made out of serfs. [deleted] I was in a church in Alexandria, VA that is older than the US. My first reaction (thankfully in my head and not out loud), was, "Hey old tour guide lady, that's not even possible! How can a building in the USA be older than the USA? Huh?"

I then realized my error and kept my mouth shut. You saved yourself a lifetime of late night "omg I was an idiot that one time" thoughts.  When you thing about something awkward you did once and it makes you physically cringe. I saw someone on here mention a saying that went"An American thinks 100 years is a long time. A European thinks 100 miles is a long distance." Much of the land in the U.S. is older than the U.S. All of the land in the US is older than the US

Edit: I was wrong!!! No, there's some bits of Hawaii that are newer. And I'm pretty sure some bits in Washington state and Alaska too. Boston over the last 200-ish years:

http://www.bc.edu/bc_org/avp/cas/fnart/fa267/boston/sequ_ani.gif Belfast has some much much earlier bars than this as well, The Crown bar here isn't really considered that old it just looks really nice. Yeah White's tavern claims to have been around since 1630. Trip to Jerusalem?  The Bingley Arms in Leeds is older than the Trip to Jerusalem by a couple of hundred years and it's mostly original. Also has a pretty facade. Although the bar is a tourist trap I've lived on Belfast my whole life and have only been in once. Yet the fact that you have people in it from all round the world should make it one of the most interesting places to have a drink. Locals can be a funny bunch.  It's actually one of the least interesting bars in the city. If there are people with selfie sticks outside you'd be best to avoid.  Agreed, don't take a selfie stick to a bar fight. The thing about that is they tend to be overwhelmingly from the US, and the two countries have very different 'bar cultures'. 

And you also then tend to get those that want to go really in depth about their ancestry and detail as much of the family history as they are aware of, and it's cool that they take pride of originating from our little island but the intensity of their interest confounds a lot of us, and sometimes they can be a bit patronising it. It can be a bit much when you're just looking to chill out.

I think Irish attitudes on the matter are laid out very well by Dylan Moran ( Dylan Moran on Americans: http://youtu.be/N0rUtSLZTlc on mobile sorry). The last 30 odd seconds is the relevant part.

Edit: left out a sentence. Years ago, I was sent to Ireland for work, and I got the feeling that the driver who took me from Shannon to Waterford was asking me leading questions to see if I was the type to spout off on Irish heritage (I'm a Canadian with an Irish surname, but my Irish ancestors came over like 300 years ago, and I might as well be more cat than Irish, the name just made its way down).  At one point, I just flat out asked, "How many North American passengers tell you they're Irish?"  "If they're white, all of them."

Edit:  I was working for a Boston-based company at the time that had his company on contract, so that might have had something to do with it.
 That's hilarious. I'm an American, and the last time I was in Ireland it seemed like every Irish person I met was asking me about *my* ancestry. I thought they were obsessed with the subject. After reading your comment I suspect they were just trying to make conversation by bringing up a subject they assumed all Americans were interested in.  
Now I feel bad for not pretending to give a shit about ancestry. That's a pretty great bit by Moran. I'm American and it does seem pretty common for people here to be very proud of their Irish ancestry (no matter how distant it may be). 

The other side of that is that when I visited in 2012 - it was extremely common for locals to say that the Shiitake family was one of the oldest in Ireland! Maybe it kind of feeds on itself. Obviously we were tourists visiting for the first time and doing some pretty touristy things (like having a pint at the Crown Bar in Belfast) but we also drove around a bunch and got off the beaten path. From what we saw, tourism seems like such a big part of the economy of Ireland (maybe less in N. Ireland); I wonder if this sort of thing is kind of self-perpetuating.

Regardless, while we were there we saw several pubs full of college-aged Americans being obnoxious and were really embarrassed. We visited a ton of pubs while we were there but tried to keep a lower profile. 

edit: changed bit to big For a good 30 seconds I was just like, "When did the Japanese settle in Northern Ireland???"

...then username Terrible bar, would not recommend for locals at all. For all the charm of it's decor, it has no soul. The Bar staff are solely concerned about getting tips from tourists.  I love old pubs like this. Liverpool has this beautiful gem, the 115 year old [Philharmonic Dining Rooms](http://beerlens.com/wp-content/uploads/2014/11/Philharmonic-Dining-Rooms-990.jpg). 1900? That's not even old for the UK. Even this 190 year old one is barely old. It just looks quite nice.

In my town within spitting distance of each other there are 3 pubs that predate the 1860s. One that was rebuilt twice in the 18th century. I'm not sure of the exact history of each of them. Two of them, including the one that was rebuilt(twice), may originate in the 18th century. And a church from the mid 12th century is in between them. This is going to be like the Four Yorkshiremen sketch but with pubs isn't it? We have a 12th century pub in [Herefordshire](http://www.pandyinn.co.uk/). Though it is more of a restaurant these days.

http://s0.geograph.org.uk/photos/17/80/178009_5fc39d42.jpg Had a few drinks at The Crown a couple years ago. The booths have buttons that call the waitstaff. I think some of them still work, though we were told they get pretty pissed off if you push them. It's also right across the street from that hotel that had the shit bombed out of it in the '60s, which is unfortunate. It's a beautiful place.  Europa hotel. Most bombed hotel in the world, apparently, yet I've been walking past it for 20 odd years without incident. Typical. Well, I'm rooting for ya - be patient - it'll happen Actually, more than just getting bombed like fuck in the 60's the Europa Hotel that its across from is [the most bombed building in the world](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Europa_Hotel,_Belfast) - thanks to "the troubles" spanning 1969-mid 90's.

The city is relatively drab but has changed a lot since then and is more pleasant to live in now. Seems Peaky Blinders did a good job creating this atmosphere for their set. Looks quite similar.  [deleted] It looks like the pub in Dishonored. Yeah that's the merger of steampunk. Victorian pub, meet advanced technology. Cue supernatural assassins, and you have Dishonored. And a metric fuckton of rats.  Reminds me a little of something out of Peaky Blinders.
  
  
  
Such an awesome Netflix show.
  
*EDIT:* Sorry, BBC. Please excuse the American here... I had no idea. I thought it was a BBC show, and Netflix just picked up the rights to broadcast in the US. Either way, yeah, good show. Having a hard time getting into season 2 though. Didn't like how they sort of cheesily wrote off a major character at the beginning. Stick with it. You will be rewarded. Although a sairtain actress's Hollywood nose job is *extremely* distracting and caused me to scream in disappointment. She had an epic prow, that gave her a unique and striking beauty, and now it's gone... Are you talking about Grace?  Actually, here is a film noir classic from 1947 with this pub playing a key part in the last third of the film. It's called "Odd Man Out" and the bar pops in at 1:21:00 

https://youtube.com/watch?v=lJytG1rUfms Over priced and always packed. 

Go to Kelly Cellars if you want an old pub; older than the Crown and Wolfe Tone is alleged to have hidden there after the United Irishmen's rebellion an introverts dreams  I'm an extrovert and I wish more bars had an emphasis on booths. It's annoyingly hard to have a good conversation without noise or some random overhearing it and taking it on a tangent.  I wish more bars in my city would turn down the music so you could actually talk with people.  It seems like you have to shout at the people you are talking to even though they are 2 feet away.  I get that the bar owners would rather have their patrons drinking rather than talking but it's annoying.   It's gotten to the point that I wear low-profile earplugs in most bars and some restaurants now. They actually make it easier to hear the person I'm talking to. I just want to go out and drink without my ears ringing afterwards.  Pretty sure its the only bar owned by the national trust in order to preserve its awesome look! OK, I'm impressed.  

The craftsmanship is stunning. it also kicked out nigel farage, the ukip leader who went there on a little publicity drive, that backfired

http://www.theguardian.com/uk-news/2014/may/14/crown-bar-belfast-odd-man-out-nigel-farage-ukip The article only says that The National Trust refused him permission to film, not that he was kicked out. It said National Trust-owned pub. 

Edit:  and then it had a tweet from UKIP saying they were not refused entry #GreatBeer. So, semantics really.  190 year old pub (even if the interior is probably no more than a 100 years old) is relatively modern day. 

Most cities in the British Isles  have pubs with roots well over 500 years old, some which have been a pub going back to the 13th century and beyond. For example the Victoria in Chester 
http://www.visitchester.com/eat-drink-shop/the-victoria-p22431


Having said that, pubs are some of the most fascinating buildings around from a historical perspective, and it's a shame that many of them are going out of business and being pulled down, only to be developed into characterless Tescos and flats etc. Once they're gone they're gone!
 It's like the church of drinking. They never tell you this part, they are called "snugs" and there main purpose was for the women. The men were free to be seen drinking in the main bar area however women could never been seen in a bar (if they were even allowed in in the first place). If they were traversing from the snug to outside they would cover their head with a vale. This pub must of been forwad thinking or in a very build up area as normally there is only one or two snugs in each bar. You don't see ceilings like that anymore. wow think of all the privacy while doing cocaine Always felt bad stepping on this to get in http://imgur.com/7JYS9CU What is the name of this place? And where in Belfast is it? Crown Liquor Saloon, 46 Great Victoria Street On a similar note, my local, the Black Bull in Edinburgh is the oldest pub in Scotland to keep its name.

Turner painted it somewhere around 1840.

http://www.bbc.co.uk/arts/yourpaintings/paintings/the-arrival-of-the-mail-coach-at-the-black-bull-edinburgh-93840 Why are these not more common today? I would love to sit in one of these with some friends and have a few pints  MADD (mothers against drunk driving) Thats bull shit son!  They built a shopping center right next to where I live (walking distance)...walmart, sheetz (gas station/food)....no pub. Sheesh. Why don't we make beautiful stuff like this anymore? We still have materials and it would be waynfaster to make now, I just don't see anybody preferring the shitty bar decor now as opposed to this work of art. Beautiful hand crafted things are still made, it's just only for the very rich. We get the mass produced stuff.  but wasn't this pub open to the public? I guess it goes to show you how greedy people of the 21st century are. Nobody wants to share beautiful stuff like this. Yeah, but it was made in a time where mass production didn't exist. Back then everything had to be hand made.  Because 9 out of 10 bars in the U.S. Go out of business within 5 years. how could a bar with an aesthetic like this go out of business? get what your saying though  Bars are run by alcoholics.  Reminds me so much of the Garrison from 'Peaky Blinders' [Here's a 191 year old one in Dundee](http://www.theglobebar-dundee.co.uk/files/9813/3129/8736/Globe_Dundee_04web.jpg) Thats just a pub  The crown!! My mum was the head chef in there (and the upstairs restaurant) for years, then some english company came in and said no to local produce etc. and buttoned down the profit hatches leaving the food a mere shadow of its former glory. It's also 'haunted' and theres a little dig to the monarchy on the way in as you have to step on the royal coat of arms.  That's nothing, there's another pub in Ireland that was built in 900AD. It's called Sean's Bar:

http://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sean%27s_Bar I had a pint in there on my own when my boyfriend was filming in Belfast.. Managed to nab a booth, then felt guilty when a group peered in to see if it was empty. Invited them in and ended up getting drunk with our elderly Americans on a golfing holiday. It was lovely! This place is never this empty unless it's closed.  I wonder how they deal with monitoring to make sure that nothing too crazy happens behind the doors. I was thinking how cool it would be to have a bar like that in Los Angeles, and then I realize that people would be fucking and doing coke in the booths all the time When we were there it was packed every day and night. It was an amazing atmosphere. Not skeezy at all. The tenders were in and out frequently enough that, I'm sure, if there was hanky panty of any variety would be in short supply.  Imagine all the convos; good and bad that have happened in those booths in the last 190s years.

Incredible stuff... If ~~walls~~ booths could talk. Spent five minutes in this pub on a family vacation before I got thrown out for being fifteen. 10/10 would get thrown out again  That is not a 190 year old interior though. It's probably from the 1890s when drinking establishments started to boast  luxurious furnishings to attract a more respectable crowd.  Looks like the pub from Peaky Blinders.  Looks like Peaky Blinders ... Where's Thomas Shelby? I was thinking the same thing More places need to have private booths like this. yes. i agree. This is nothing. There's a pub in my local town that dates from 1749. Still, a nice looking pub. That's only a 70-odd year difference... Idk if it really means that much in the grand scale of things. Only? That's nearly three quarters of a century. 

Edit: In fact, it is three quarters of a century, 76 years to be precise. That's basically the equivalent of an average human lifespan. Grand scale of things...  Three quarters of a century IS grand scale of things. How much history can occur in that amount of time? Less than can occur in 900 years, which is the age of some public houses. (pubs)  Still a better design than almost 95% of the pubs 190 years later My grandpa served for the Mexican Air Force in WW2. They were called the Aguilas Aztecas, or Aztec Eagles. They were trained in the US and entered the war in 1942. My grandpa saw a lot of fighting in the Pacific. Most people don't know that Mexico even fought I didn't know Mexico fought in WWII. This post is awesome.  Mexico stood against Fascism before Britain, France, or the United States. They were one of the only two countries (with the Soviet Union) that supported the Second Spanish Republic during the Spanish Civil War (1936-39) when the Fascists were backed by Hitler's Germany, Mussolini's Italy, the Catholic Church, and U.S. businesses.

Some of the best anti-fascist propaganda out there is from *El Taller de Grfica Popular*, a Mexican art group. [It was the only country to protest against the Anschluss](http://imgur.com/a/bhbym#Vzmzs18) My heart swelled with pride upon reading that. ;_; Viva Mexico Cabrones Que Viva! I'm really trying to learn more about this war  how did US businesses support the Nationalists? If anything, it seems that overall the U.S. (though never officially) more so supported the Republicans. The vast majority of U.S. militia that volunteered fought for the republicans (~2,500 men). The U.S. general public was certainly more sympathetic to the Republic, and the Abraham Lincoln Brigade fought bravely in the International Brigades while other volunteers joined with the anarchists in the fight against fascism.

[That said, U.S. business interests were another case.](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Spain%E2%80%93United_States_relations#United_States_and_the_Spanish_Civil_War) Ford, General Motors, Studebaker, Texas Oil, and others sold to the Nationalists, even offering them war-time credit. Neither did I. On further reflection though, it was called a WORLD war. Yeah, but the United States has a World Series so, it could mean anything.  Badass name Fuck yeah, being named after a society known for conquering shit and pulling out people's hearts as a common occurrence. I recommend watching Apocalypto if you wanna see how badass they were.  I thought Apocalypto was about Mayans?  Yeah, apocalypto was about how mel gibson came in and saved the mayan savages. From the Jews. I hear they're bad luck  and they looooooooove to FUCK...with our finances.  My favorite part is when mel gibson rode that dragon and then morphed into an ogre and slew the immortal god emperor in the name of chaos. ... Not sure if serious.


... Downloading movie now. Wasn't that Warcraft 30,000? You're thinking of StarCraft: Dawn of the Swarm No, he's thinking of Space Hulk Hogan I want this :(. Mel Gibson has said that the bad guys used the Mayan as a template, but it is intentionally left vague in the movie. The movie is more about exploring themes of oppression and war with a mesoamerican-inspired backdrop than it is a detailed representation of mesoamerican history. Well, there's a title at the beginning of the film that says something to the extent that the Mayan empire is on the brink of collapse. It's pretty explicit that they are supposed to be Maya. There was a pretty good three-part review of the movie in /r/badhistory [about a year ago](http://www.reddit.com/r/badhistory/comments/1liqdq/badhistory_movie_review_apocalypto_part_1_happy/).  Worth a read.  And there are [several other media reviews by several other people](http://www.reddit.com/r/badhistory/wiki/bad_history_reviews) as well. [Here's the original thread with the rest of the album if you are interested](https://www.reddit.com/r/mexico/comments/2vrpe2/propaganda_mexicana_en_la_segunda_guerra_mundial/). For those of you that don't know, the eagle was a very big part of the Aztec mythology.  I believe that the reason they founded Tenochtitlan, they saw an eagle on a cactus with a snake in its mouth, as they believed was the sign to let them know that the gods wanted to stay there.  That's pretty much the whole story behind it :) The heroic Escuadron 201. Mis respetos a tu abuelo. Those pilots were badasses. 201st squadron i wish my grandpa could remember but alzheimers took him from us long before he died. He was also part of the 30.  
 Maybe they knew each other! I first heard of the Aztec Eagles through warthunder. http://forum.warthunder.com/index.php?/topic/97898-special-the-aztec-eagles/ 
Pretty cool to see other countries involvement.  A few weeks ago a story came up about a commercial jet they thought was hijacked flying over Mexico because it went silent for awhile. Turns out the pilot just forgot to flip a switch or whatever. Point of this is that they said the Mexican Air Force was called in, which was a TIL for me that Mexico even has an air force. I asked my (USA) air force buddy about it, he said that they do have a squadron of older fighter jets. Mostly for stuff like the above mentioned. Because Guatemala sure as fuck isn't going to invade.   Did you know the first military helicopters flying rescue missions into New Orleans after Hurricane Katrina were from the Mexican Navy? True story. Both the Mexican Army and Navy pitched in on the relief efforts in a big way. Their Navy is a small group, and obviously focused on coastal patrol and defense, but they're pretty damned good. Had no idea. I guess when you run the best military in the world, you just assume that the second world country next door is kind of a running joke. Looking at it more closely though, that is obviously not the case. Any country that has to deal with so many *narcotrafficos* has to have it's shit together.  You realise, I hope, that nearly all countries have militaries.  Second-world means communist, so unless you're talking cuba, you mean 'developing country'. I think that the term is used more generally now then it used to be. I think we have a small fleet of 10~ F5 fighters. The air force certainly takes a more of a supportive role in the military. Here's some art of the Escuadron 201 over the Pacific, [Link!](http://i.imgur.com/CIECL28.jpg) I never really leaned about what was going on in mexico during WWII. 
To Google! Not much, but we did send some troops ([201 squad]( http://es.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Escuadr%C3%B3n_201) is the most famous). And send a bunch of workers to work the farms in the US since many of the American men left to fight. Documental: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-2w8B7F7ul0 [Non-mobile, English link](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/201st_Fighter_Squadron_(Mexico)) From HS teachers and what no. We our extent of involvement was saying no to allowing Germany to invade the US through Mexico and supplied a lot of the uniforms and boots for US troops.

Edit: thanks for pointing out that I was confusing WWI and II. It has been duly noted ;P Mexicans fought on the pacific front. I'd like to read about that if you have a linky. I didn't think they had the capability. http://latinamericanhistory.about.com/od/thehistoryofmexico/a/09mexicoww2_2.htm  
we had boots ready to stomp japs, but ultimately the US was kind enough to do the dying. So just one air force squad. Still good, seeing as how the country was still recovering from revolution, and didn't have as much industry.  &gt; ready to stomp japs

How old are you?  Sounds like something my 65 year old racist uncle would say.

 Ive never understood why "Japs" is racist. Its just a shortening of Japanese. Its racist because someone said it in anger at some point? It's a cultural thing. The actual meaning of the word is less important than the cultural baggage it brings with it. Connotation versus denotation, if im remembering the terminology correctly. It's why it's more acceptable to call an African person black than it is to call an Asian person yellow, even though on the surface the terms seem similar.  With all of this talk about offending names... I need to see what a German says when I call them a Jerry.  Fucking krauts man Pretty sure "Jerry" is about as offending as "Tommy". I doubt you'd get beat up for "Hun" or "Kraut" either, although the latter derives from WW2. Ohboi.jpg Nah, gotta go all Great War on them and call the ["The Boche"](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_terms_used_for_Germans#Boche_.28offensive.29). I used to have a college roommate of Japanese decent, I'd often say "Japs" when we talk about Japanese related topics but I had absolutely no idea there was a racist connotation to it at that time. Once I found out I completely stopped saying it, but I just hope he knew I was oblivious about the fact. I also fear that I even said it around his Japanese family when they visited. You couldn't possibly believe people are offended because of the second thing you said, which makes me assume that you know absolutely well why it's an offensive word and you are feigning navet for some reason. Yes, intention is what matters. It's racist because millions of people said it in anger while oppressing millions of other people, stripping them of their rights and possessions, scapegoating them for their problems, and murdering and beating them up, for decades. Saying Japs to a Japanese person who is aware of the term is like firing a gun near a veteran with PTSD. Not every veteran has PTSD, just like how not every Japanese person finds the word to be racist, and you may not intend to cause them to remember the traumatic history, but you should still be aware of the consequences and probably would do better to avoid using it. I mean, we call Britons "Brits" and nobody makes a stink.  Call Pakistanis "Pakis" and you have a problem though.  Jewish people are Jews.

 All offensive words are just strings of letters...it's up to society to decide how certain strings of letters makes you feel. "Japs" was used in a derogatory sense so now its offensive. Because of my grandpa, I was saying Jap until I was in middle school. He fought in the Philippines and Okinawa as a tank gunner with Philippinos and Mexican Americans. My grandpa never watched anything on tv with Asians, refused care from Asian nurses or doctor's and never bought anything made in an Asian county. This guy was only cool with the Philippines. My (now deceased) grandpa was on a US Navy ship that was sunk by the Japanese Navy near the Philippines. He had about half a dozen off-color terms for them. He would probably roll over in his grave if he knew I worked for a Japanese car company. Those WWII vets, the old beefs never really went away.  My grandpa served in the US army as a mexican citizen, he enlisted in 1945 and if it wasn't for the atom bombs it would have been probable for him to die in the invasion of Japan. I'm third generation american, my grandpa fought for the U.S. in ww2. Aside from fighting in Italy and storming Normandy he also taught English to Mexicans who enlisted into the U.S. army. Appears Mexico was still supplying/making military uniforms when I joined the military post 911. I'm not too surprised. Mexico has been holding on to that industry for a long time. Unfortunately, a lot of the "maquiladoras" lost their competitiveness to China, probably because of sweatlodges and what not. I know an Engineer who used to service 50 different company's machines in northern Mexico. Within the last decade all but one have had to close shop. I was under the assumption that Propper made a lot of the military uniforms, and that they were made in the US. Maybe that's just the stuff the weekend warrior militia types wear? 

Either way, the official issue stuff is quality gear. My girlfriend still wears one of her dad's field jackets from the Vietnam era.  My USAF uniform bdu and gortex specifically read made in Mexico.  Still have my blues, wouldn't be surprised if they too were made in Mexico.  Doesn't really bother me, I'm happy they were made by someone in my hemisphere that has a dependency on the USA. I think [you're confusing WWI with WWII](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Zimmermann_Telegram). Totally did! [I found this after reading your link] (http://latinamericanhistory.about.com/od/thehistoryofmexico/a/09mexicoww2_2.htm) Your high school teachers were incorrect.  During the final stages of WWII the Mexican 201st Air Fighter Squadron fought alongside the U.S. Air Force 58th Squadron in the Philippines. Source: I'm a Chicano Studies professor. Edit: Added link.

http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/201st_Fighter_Squadron_(Mexico)
 You're thinking of WWI and the Zimmerman Telegram. Mexico also supplied the US with morphine for the troops. America's supply of opium from Asia was cut off after Japanese occupation so the US turned to Mexico for help.  https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OCEN-NzoYSY That was world war one right? Basically Germany was trying to goad Mexico in trying to take back the land they lost 20 years earlier.  Oh wait, that was ww1... &gt; Basically Germany was trying to goad Mexico in trying to take back the land they lost 20 years earlier. Oh wait, that was ww1...

A bit more than 20 years, pal. /Wikipedia! I asked in /r/mexico what everyone's relatives were up to at the moment of the news of the atomic bomb.

Turns out not a lot of people were concerned, but the kind of guy who was interested in international politics (not the majority, really) were concerned with being drafted during their mandatory military service, or as the reserve they were if they were older. My grandparents lived in Juarez during the Manhattan project. They said their windows shattered. That's all I remember my dad telling me. It broke windows 120 miles away, which is just about the distance form the site to Juarez. Plausible. This is one of the Aztecs Eagles, a Thunderbolt used by the "Escuadron 201", at the liberation of the Philippines circa 1945 with the allied forces, [notice the airforce insignia and mexican flag tail](http://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/c/c6/P47_Escuadron_201_mexico.jpg) Mmmm, P-47.  One of the best "I'm going to fuck up that particular spot and it's immediate surrounding area" aircraft of WW2. Also the aeronautical embodiment of "It's just a flesh wound." Eight .50's and a shit load of bombs and rockets can make a hell of a mess on the receiving end. There's a reason the A-10 carries the same name. My grandfather flew one of those in the Pacific yep, according to my family one of my great-grandfathers flew one of those too, thats why i know this story lol.. also one of my great uncles is a high commander in the mexican airforce. My great uncle was also part of the squadron (went as a mechanic, returned as a pilot). You might be able to find your great-grandfather's name in [this](http://escuadron201.org.mx/?page_id=19) page Man, I wish my grandfather was a cool Mexican pilot who helped kick Hitler's ass instead of an alcoholic. Mine was just an angry little farmer married to a sweet little old lady.
Basically mexican Eustace. Eustaquio In Guadalajara Mexico there's a statue commemorating the Mexican Air Force squadron that fought in WWII   Where exactly is that? I'll be in Guadalajara soon and would be interested in visiting. There you go:
http://wikimapia.org/9553516/es/Monumento-al-escuadron-201 It's pretty close to Zapopan's Mercado del Mar (Sea Market). Getting around can be a little messy due to the construction works of the new metro line. [Also in Monterrey!](http://3.bp.blogspot.com/-dREOwud6Q1E/UDMH9qGIkPI/AAAAAAAAB08/wTfCqNGSfKE/s400/Escuadr%C3%B3n+201+Mty.jpg) Ahhh that Anti-Nazi. Mexican sentiment. It's good to be brown.  Funny thing is one of our most prominent historical figures, Jos Vasconcelos, was a Nazi sympathizer and wrote the foreword of the Meixcan National Socialist book *Derrota Mundial* where the author claims the defeat of Nazi Germany was a worldwide defeat and other conspiracy theories about jews controlling the world.

 A huevo, ese. No, chicano no.  No, no, no, al coco no, al coco no.
 No te me subas al coco no! La cancion con el mismo sonidito. Didididididididididi 1234 sa .sa. sa .yaku .sa .yaku .sa!  Jajaja si no mames ningun mexicano usa "ese" eso es de pinches chicanos. Pero el "a huevo" si es mas comn.  A huevo. Comentarios De reddit en Espaol! Celebremos! I don't speak Spanish, but I can see that is hilarious because gringo [Welcome to Reddit history](http://www.reddit.com/comments/cq1q2/help_reddit_turned_spanish_and_i_cannot_undo_it/) Si,Soy chicano, los mexicanos no me quieren, ni los gringos :(  comete un gusanito *nadie me quiere todos me odian*  No soy de aqu, ni soy de all, pero aqu es donde me gusta y aqu me voy a quedar! My dog is a [Xoloitzcuintli](https://www.flickr.com/photos/124910731@N03/16513515631/) if that counts?! I've been hesitant to share these, and the few times I did they were buried under the comments. The reason why I don't share them all is because they do not belong to me, and if the direct owners haven't shared them before, that is their decision.


There are many more pictures in the album. I've chosen a few that do not directly identify my uncle's family so as not to disturb their privacy any further. If you end up sharing these, please grant my wish by stating that they are part of a private collection and that they have been shared without permission, which is all I can do to take responsibility for it. I am concerned for breaching their trust, but I also believe that this bit of history belongs to all Mexicans and the allies they worked with. May they find some solace in this pride, specially in these times where we are deeply concerned about civil unrest.


* [P-47D's flying with both the USAAF and Mexican insignias](http://i.imgur.com/5IZvAFG.jpg)


* [The first and last time the Mexican flag is raised on foreign territory during a war campaign](http://i.imgur.com/jgB6cxx.jpg)


* [In Memoriam - Those who did not make it back, from the quest for freedom](http://i.imgur.com/U0AiqAa.png)


* [An aerial photo of Taiwan being bombed by the Mexican Expeditionary Air Force and the USAAF](http://i.imgur.com/e3cojXG.png)


* [Escort for the flag](http://i.imgur.com/Kf1I0M1.jpg)


* [Many members of the 201st squadron and support crew](http://i.imgur.com/f5smC0z.jpg)


* ["Aztec Eagles, Squad A" barracks in Porac Air Strip, Philippines ](http://i.imgur.com/oEsfAWH.jpg)


* [US MajGen Henry confirmation of Mexican bombings](http://i.imgur.com/kbUfUpc.jpg)



They come from my great-uncle, who did serve in the 201st squadron. I am just a distant nephew, and my uncle's family treasures all these memories, not just as memento, but also because they, and my family (my father served with them in a special forces group) still serve to this day with a lot of pride and honor, and with this legacy in mind.


You'd be healthily skeptic to doubt me in light of all the drug trafficking, corruption and violence levels in the country, even within the military; but boy, would I be fucking damned if I let anyone slip every Mexican soldier under that umbrella.



The stories I have access to, of my family and theirs, when faced right in front of life and death decisions; to sell their country, to betray their fellow soldiers. They've chosen death every single time and have come out of it with their honor intact. Some paid it direly, some walked off with demotions and other unavoidable consequences. There's a rumor that even the organized crime has come to respect that.


The reason why I'm daring to share these without my uncle's consent (and THAT is something I do NOT take lightly) is in the hope of shedding light over a couple of easily forgotten facts:


Mexico has a very proud history of standing up to oppression, domestic and international, and they've paid for it with their finest men, in the front line.

You can call out a LOT of Mexicans, for being corrupt, greedy, violent, and so on. But, this country will be damned to hell the day it goes down without the bravest and most honorable having their say. We get frequently dissed for having obsolete weapons due to US regulations in place (not because we want to), and mocked for entertaining one of the most absurd, cynical and corrupt governments of the world.



But just as every other power has done in the past, you'd test your luck the day you try to vanquish us all, because THEN you'll have to deal with the real Mexicans: those who carry on their shoulders both shame and glory of their co-nationals without fanfare, every day, and which do not necessarily belong in the army.


It could be a military family with pride and honor, it could be a teacher that has dealt with troubled youth without even getting paid for decades, a mother with three jobs supporting her children while suffering some disease ailments of her own, an artist that ventures head first into the international scene without a shred of fear, an athlete that works till their last drop of sweat in less than ideal conditions and sometimes without any help, a student that travels many kilometers for many hours every day to aspire for a better life. Those are the ones you never hear about. True bravery is being able to do without witness what anyone would be willing to do before the whole world.


Sure, we're all amigo and tacos... until you get on our bad side. So please, let's get along and cherish our blessings. Do come join us to our slice of paradise with beautiful beaches, jungles, desert. Let's dance to the advent of the 6th sun like our Nahua ancestors did and let's eat the wonderful dishes with exotic spices we've been blessed with... after all, a lot of good men have died for us to be able to do so.



Let's all work out our domestic and international differences in an ordered and well-intentioned way; we will take a lot of flak and get back on our feet many times, but you can trust that we will see it through as long as we keep our freedom and peace... lest the aztec eagle feast on somebody's heart once again, even if it's our own.

 Thanks for sharing these. You definitely expressed how I feel about mexico very well! Salute to your great uncle for his courage.  American here, I think it's pretty hard to deny the Mexican spirit. You live south of arguably the greatest cultural force in the world, yet inarguably retain a very strong unique culture. Sure, you've got issues as a nation, but I wouldn't hold that against an individual Muchas Gracias por compartir esto /u/eliskandar, esto es una de las pocas cosas que me enorgullecen de ser mexicano. ha de haber sido el honor mas grande ser parte de ese escuadron. Great post OP. On a similar note, Alot of mexican americans fought in WWII but at the time there was only "white or black" on the census. Natrually mexicans where considered white (and many still do idenfity as such).

 This is part of why i enjoyed fury because it really made effort to be accurate in what was out there. I just got patriotic for a country I am not from. I guess propoganda works. /r/propagandaposters has tons of stuff like this. It came from that sub.  'Muric...I mean...'Mexica?! Mxico!  No se te olvide el Cabron. Ponche Taqueria carnitas borrachas   Hahaha it's "pinche", not "ponche", man. Ponche is the past tense form of the verb to pop, like when you popped someone's tire. "Le ponche la llanta" Ponche Taqueria is my favorite Mexican restaurant that delivers to my apartment :(

Their carnitas borrachas tacos are off the chain Ohhhhhhh. Oh.

Mis disculpas. Or maybe he was referring to the ponche we drink on Christmas. *Mxico!

 M'xico Tips sombrero M'seorita M'riachi "En este momento, me siento eufrico. No debido a la bendicin de algn dios. Sino porque estoy iluminado por mi inteligencia." The Mexican version would be "Viva Mxico Cabrones!" Meheeco! Well, Mexico is a part of the continent of America, so yeah, 'Murica! *North America *North 'Murica Norte 'merrrica! Messico! https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=iSau8PDlufg Here's a good write up on the 201st squadron. [Strike of the Aztec Eagles] (http://www.airartnw.com/aztec_eagles_story.htm) I picked a up a print a while back with the signatures of the few remaining pilots.  If I were a Nazi - I'd be wondering where the rattlesnake went.  As I learned from WWE, don't turn your back on a rattlesnake. The nazi flag takes the place of the snake.  It's symbolism I tells ya. Notice the two mountains in the background? Those are actually volcanoes, Popocatepetl and Iztaccihuatl. They are very important to Aztec mythology. Legend has it Iztaccihuatl was an Aztec princess who fell in love with Popocatepetl. When Popocatepetl was sent off to war, she was falsely told by her father that her beloved had died in battle, so in turn she died of grief. When the warrior returned to find his lover dead, he laid her to rest and kneeled beside her body to mourn her death. Is that where [this](https://s-media-cache-ak0.pinimg.com/736x/3a/b8/bb/3ab8bb917f67535990814a608ed5dfe0.jpg) comes from? Aaaaand.... I have a new wallpaper v Does anyone kmow if I could buy a print of this? Mexico declared war on the Axis Powers in support of the Allies on May 22, 1942, following losses of oil ships in the Gulf, most notably the Potrero del Llano and the Faja de Oro, to German submarine attacks. Although most American countries eventually entered the war on the Allies' side, Mexico and Brazil were the only Latin American nations that sent troops to fight overseas during World War II.

Perhaps the most famous fighting unit in the Mexican military was the Escuadrn 201, also known as the Aztec Eagles. This group consisted of more than 300 volunteers, who trained in the United States to fight against Japan. It was the first Mexican military unit trained for overseas combat.

[Source](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Military_history_of_Mexico) [Here](http://www.reddit.com/r/mexico/comments/2vrpe2/propaganda_mexicana_en_la_segunda_guerra_mundial/) are some more from [r/mexico](/r/mexico) Orales... first time seen it, and I'm mexican... cool. this is badass, nice mexican art We're gonna do one chingadera and one chingadera only: killing pinches nazis. As a Venezuelan raised in the States.. when I asked my parents what South America did to help during WWII they responded:

"Made some ammo.  And danced.  Lots of dancing!" The only country from South America that was actively involved in the WWII was Brazil, as far as I know. So epic Once while in mexico I came across an elementary school history book. The WWII section was quite interesting. The book made the point that it was a world war, and that every country was involved. Their biggest contribution was that they sent 50,000 men to US factories to support the war effort. And they got cheated out of their pensions by [mexican goverment](http://articles.ivpressonline.com/2005-11-03/braceros_24205853) My Murica boner is confused. They should replace that flag for "los carteles" flag and use it for a new propaganda, for a better Mexico. r/photoshopbattles People would like a flag with a picture of Pena Nieto a lot more. I know because i'm Mexican. That's amazing. So deep and powerful in so many ways.  Honestly... Me too. Glorious, glorious Mxico. /r/mexico  I like the Mexican flag in the background Glorious.  I want more Mexican WW2 propaganda. I remember racists on yahoo answers saying that Mexico was real close to siding with the Nazis. For no logical reason. Just made up in his mind that Mexico was gonna side with them when Germany contacted Mexico.  In WW1 the Germans contacted Mexico to join them and declare war on the US (in which the Germans would help fund Mexico's military) but the Mexicans declined and told the US Government about the offer. There were a LOT of rich Germans at the time. A lot of the upper class in Mexico are German,  Jewish,  French and Spaniards.  Viva Mxico cabrones! **MEXICO, FUCK YEAH!!!!** TIL Mxico fought in WW2 My grandpa was 1st gen American and fought for the U.S. in ww2. He taught English to Mexicans who enlisted into the U.S. army. This artist went on to design NASCAR t-shirts. There was actually a move to help Mexico industrialize from the US during and after the war. Presumably to strengthen an ally. There's also all of the Mexican immigrants working in American factories. Course they also got attacked for being different by American sailors and arrested instead of their attackers.  [Nice OP, took you less than one hour. You could have at least credited the original post.](http://www.reddit.com/r/PropagandaPosters/comments/2vrw62/mexican_wwii_propaganda_xpost_rmexico/) It was actually this:

https://www.reddit.com/r/mexico/comments/2vrpe2/propaganda_mexicana_en_la_segunda_guerra_mundial/

On /r/Mexico Didnt know that but I guess it's fine in that case since both http://www.reddit.com/r/PropagandaPosters/comments/2vrw62/mexican_wwii_propaganda_xpost_rmexico/ and https://www.reddit.com/r/mexico/comments/2vrpe2/propaganda_mexicana_en_la_segunda_guerra_mundial/ are from the same user. It was suggested on the sub that he post on there :D No. They didn't make those propaganda images. They just posted them on Reddit.  I ain't even mad Who cares? None of these people posting the images own any right to them. It's just Reddit reposts. No one but the people who published and distributed them deserve any credit.  I'm with ya man I don't know what anyone thinks they are accomplishing by calling people out for reposting. I mean some people act like you just straight up shit in their face by reposting on reddit.  Probably because /r/PropagandaPosters and /r/mexico are both great subs with high quality content. Magic muffin just wants them to be more popular. Why do you care so much? His post has over 3.5k upvotes, many people saw and enjoyed it because he posted it here. I wouldn't have seen it if he didn't post it, and I'm sure a lot of other people wouldn't either. The Zimmerman note REALLY didn't work. This is Gangster a fuck.  Muy bonito! Propaganda art is very underappreciate type of art because of the strong personal feelings people have towards it because they are on the other side. That's why  we now appreciate the propaganda art made almost hundred years ago, Nazi propaganda, etc...

(well, in the OP case, the reason is different, it is not the major WWII country, that's why we know so little) &gt; That's why we now appreciate the propaganda art made almost hundred years ago

Haven't we always liked it? Not every one
 dat vivid colours WW2 recruiting posters were [awesome](https://s-media-cache-ak0.pinimg.com/736x/35/89/6b/35896b4057cbad3d2dd3772bace78046.jpg) That is fucking amazing Awesome piece of history. Really cool  Soviet constructivist artists created the most badass anti-Nazi posters, probably because they hated them the most.  This is awesome  I don't know why, but I just thought what would a mexican nazi look like. http://goplek-net.s3.amazonaws.com/53b1e7ae6856e-morenazi1.jpg?1423938289432 Sadly, they exist Trailer to documentary about them: https://vimeo.com/60526996 From the same country that almost supported Germany in the Great War This isn't true at all. Where did you get this from? Yeah, it is.. Germany sent Mexico the Zimmerman Telegraph offering to become allies with Mexico in exchange for Mexico regaining some lost territory. Had they accepted, Mexico would have been supporting Germany in the Great War.
Edit: Rather, had it not been intercepted by Britain and had Mexico accepted, they would have been supporting Germany in the Great War. 
Edit: Even though Mexico could not have actually done it, they did consider it, then realized they could not do it. I know all about the Zimmerman Telegraph and they *were* sent an offer by Germany, but there is no proof that Mexico "almost supported" them. I think the fact that Mexico considered the possibility counts as almost supporting them but if you don't then you do you.. That's my point. They were sent an offer but what makes you think they considered the possibility? Mexico was in the middle of a civil war when the Zimmerman Telegram was sent. In a book written by Friedrich Katz in the 80s he wrote that the Mexican President at the time considered supporting the Germans but he didn't think that Mexico could take over their territories again and that Germany would actually provide the financial support they promised. Also, the president thought if they did side with Germany then it would have pissed off the countries in that took part in the Niagara Falls peace conference in 1914 because it would almost certainly mean war with the US. They considered it.  IIRC, Mexico was one of two South/Central American countries that sent fighters overseas, the other being Brazil.

 The Aztec Eagles squadron operated as part of the USAAC after training in Texas.  They flew Republic P-47 Thunderbolts on ground attack, anti-shipping, and CAS missions (I think) in the Pacific campaign.  They were a really impressive group for being willing to leave their (largely unthreatened) nation and fight and die to cover someone else's troops.

More info: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/201st_Fighter_Squadron_%28Mexico%29 im pretty sure mexico is in North America
 You're quite correct. I should have said Latin America, perhaps. Orale Chingon, proud to be Mexican Ahi les va la verga, nazis hijos de su puta madre! As a Mexican American, this shit's awesome yo. Shhhhh....The mountain is pooping...... Is this in a hospital or other building where one might need to move people around via stretcher?  I've heard before that those sometimes have foot controls, though I've never seen anything like this. In a rather normal office building.  In what country? California, USA What part of Mexico is that in? Western Mexico. Northwestern Mexico Ahh the Baha-Pacific Northwest. Baha Bahahahahaha This is the City of Berkeley's administration and public works building. (Berkeley CA) What part so I can go use it [deleted] Troll detected. Also, when an elevator is on seismic mode, you don't choose a floor, the elevator moves you away from the counterweight and stops at the next nearest floor.
 I've seen one of those in Berkeley. Australia. The buttons are actually at hand height. Africa  The best country.  you have been banned from /r/pingpong. Since the buttons are near the floor, why are the numbers readable from in front of them and not from above?
 Because these buttons were specially designed for people with eyes on their feet. [What if I have eyes on my hands?](http://download.gamezone.com/assets/old/screenshots/pans-labyrinth-1.jpg) FUCK I JUST FINISHED FORGETTING ABOUT THAT MOVIE.  Forgetting? But that was an awesome movie!  what movie is it? Pan's labyrinth. Looks like something that would be in a Tool video..... 46 and two video has it. Pan's labyrinth. Not to be confused with "the labyrinth" as they have completely different tones from each other.  I was told to watch Labyrinth since it was a kid's film I had apparently missed out on while growing up. Mistakenly watched Pan's Labyrinth instead and seriously questioned WTF was going on when the guy was getting his face smashed in. Watched the Bowie Labyrinth the next day because I was so traumatized by the Pan ending.  If it makes you feel any better, del Toro confirmed that she isn't dreaming or delusional.  Everything that happened actually happened.  The proof is in the scene where she draws a door to escape her room.  With a guard at the door there was absolutely no other way for her to escape.

So rest easy that her and her little brother are safe in their kingdom. [Pan's Labyrinth](http://www.imdb.com/title/tt0457430/). Extremely excellent. Sex and the city 2 Pan's Labyrinth That's a weird looking vagina.  Looks like my ex's. True. My special eyes! Here I thought I was the only one.  They ordered regular sized buttons but mixed up millimetres with inches. You can't send oversized buttons back, you'd look like a fool.  And good luck getting people with luggage or something not bumping into them.  YEAH AND WATCH OUT FOR THE RATS THAT ARE GOING TO HIT THE BUTTONS Good luck amputee with no legs What about amputee with no arms? How will s/he avail in our normal lifts (elevators)? Please allow me to anticipate the next question: then what about people with no tongues? And the next one: what about girls? But why male models? Damn it Derek I just told you Funny story about this quote. Every single fucken time someone says it, someone has to tell the story about how stiller just forgot his line.  I feel like im taking crazy pills I INVENTED the piano necktie!!! Way to be that guy https://i.imgur.com/cvGGEPb.png Biscuits and gravy. I'm just here so I won't get fined. They can use the [Intelevator](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JofRc_qQCAs)... At age 6 I was born without a face. That's a very grumpy answer. Attention men with noses!  They have legs, they can take the stairs. http://imgur.com/T9fQhA1.jpg Ah, good ol' Katawa Shoujo. A nose. How can you anything without arms? They can just take the stairs. nice Could just push with their hands... Poor Lieutenant Dan He got new legs! Having to use the ordinary buttons wouldn't be the worst thing ever to happen to an amputee. I can guarantee it. I'm going to assume for humor that since there are none in the picture, this elevator ONLY has foot buttons. OMG elevator so ableist.  Calm down, that's why they have stairs It would suck for a paraplegic also. They could just roll into the button with their wheelchair Or just roll into it with their body for that matter. They just hurl themselves onto the floor and start flopping around until they hit something. Haha, I'll figure it out. Its the stairs for them unfortunately. Perfect for us germophobes! I can only imagine the amount of germs on elevator buttons  Our office bathroom door has a door foot-dle:

http://imgur.com/LqTTque That looks like it probably uses an annoying amount of force to operate. I like the concept though; I often end up trying to only touch the least commonly touched parts of the door to avoid those nasty buns of snitches that don't wash their hands. ther's a simple solution to this. Make it so that you **push** to get out of bathroom doors and **pull** to get in.

not enough places do this. Sadly, that's against fire codes. A better solution is to just do away with doors altogether.  If privacy is a concern, they can have a short curved corridor at the entrance. While I agree that no door is a good option, it's not always feasible. And I am pretty sure bathroom doors opening outward is not against fire code *unless* the open door blocks an egress/exit. I could be wrong, I am just using common sense.  Na, all doors on the way to a exit has to open towards you. It is incase the door is blocked by debris you can remove it to open. If the blockage is on the other-side and the door opens that way, you'll be trapped. This absolutely cannot be true for non-residential. Without spending any time thinking, I can list dozens of buildings and hundreds of egress routes off the top of my head that every door from every hallway all the way to the outside open away from you. Yeah, I'm pretty sure outer doors of public buildings (at the very least) are required to open outwards, so that if a panicked fleeing mob slams into them they're not stuck shut.  Possibly interior doors as well.   Thanks Triangle Shirtwaist Factory fire! Maybe it is just my country then, thought I read it in the building code. How is it against fire code to have the door be push to exit. That is the safer design as it means people cannot smash up against the door and prevent it from opening in a rush to exit. My office building has a push to exit bathroom door. If something falls and blocks a push door from opening, you can't do shit in most cases. With a pull door you have some ability to move/manipulate it.  What? Now I don't know how your logic works in the US, but surely it's safer to have to push a door to get out when there's a fire. It's about falling debris. A door that opens out, can get blocked by something on the other side meaning that you're trapped. If it opens in then it doesn't matter what debris is in the way it won't block the door It's late and I'm tired... But I can't possibly thing of what the reasoning is for making this part of the fire code? I'm not disagreeing with you, I'm genuinely curious why this is a rule. One of the best bathrooms in my city does this. It's in a mall in a food court, and the entrance is just as you say: a short but room-isolating curved corridor as an entrance way. It then has motion sensitive flush, water, air, and paper dispensers. The first time I used it I was pretty impressed. Chick-fil-a near me uses a neat door handle. Googling it brings up this link: http://www.prweb.com/releases/2007/06/prweb531556.htm They're all over here. Force required not too bad. That's great until someone pushes from the other side and breaks your foot. Alternatively they could just be normal buttons made of copper. The germophobes dont know about coppers antimicrobial properties. Could be silver too. For about a week until someone steals them. Copper would probably be stolen too.  I'll steal plastic elivator buttons.

I don't give a fuck.  Small world,  I steal plastic elevator buttons.  \#elivatorbuttonstealingmasterrace \#IThinkHeWasMorePointingOutThatYouCantSpellElevatorEvenThoughItWasInTheTitleOfThisPost Damn G chill  Seriously though, people would.  We got a new computer lab at school and it's been 2 weeks.  Some stole the F7 and PrtScn buttons off the shitty HP keyboard that came with one of the computers.  Like? Unless you have that same keyboard at home it's most likely useless.  Even then it's worth like 5 cents, I don't get it.

This is why we can't have nice things.  Nice things for everyone always ends up as shitty things for one jerk off clepto. F7

Commonly used tospell checkand grammar checka document in Microsoft programs such as Microsoft Word, Outlook, etc.

Shift + F7 runs a Thesaurus check on the word highlighted.

Turns on Caret browsing in Mozilla Firefox.

Increase laptop speaker volume (on some laptops) Just needs a plating. It'd be like $1 worth of silver.  Although people are fucking dumb so you're probably right. that would be better, but it takes time for it to kill bacteria and people are constantly touching the buttons in a lot of elevators copper is anti microbe? wuuuuuuut Copper is the offensive old bigot of the metal world. FFS copper get with the times and stop being against microbes. Doesn't help against viruses. http://www.independent.co.uk/life-style/health-and-families/health-news/copper-in-hospitals-proven-to-contact-kill-bugs-and-viruses-causing-mrsa-and-pneumonia-9930767.html [Wikipedia](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Antimicrobial_properties_of_copper) 
 says "toxic effect of metal ions on living cells, algae, molds, spores, fungi, **viruses**, prokaryotic and eukaryotic microorganisms, even in relatively low concentrations"

Source is some German thing that I do not understand.

furthermore, it has been shown that copper kills the influenza virus  99.999% after 6 hours(on the wikipedia page as well) Or y'all could just, have an immune system and wash your hands before eating. &gt;Or y'all could just, have an immune system

Some people unfortunately, don't have that luxury. Probably less than on your fingers. just do what I do, use your tongue that's what elbows are for just hit it with your knuckle I use my knuckles or elbow for elevator buttons The average human hand has 3200 bacteria from 150 species on it so...  This would be perfect for /r/mildlyinteresting. that's what this sub is Every elevator has foot buttons is you're drunk and can kick high enough Seems like an amazing solution if you were carrying luggage or bags of groceries though!  If you still had wall controls as an option would be a nice feature. Some potential problems I see:

1) The buttons are huge, so if your building has 20+ stories, there isn't enough room.  
2) The wear and tear is probably considerably higher than finger buttons from assholes kicking them.  
3) Harder for people in wheelchairs who are paralyzed or amputees.  
4) Gonna be more difficult to fake pressing the "hold door" button when you see someone running for the elevator. Maybe there are also normal buttons. If it's in the US and falls under the ADA.  Yep, there will be a set of "normal" buttons in a specific location, with braille. [deleted] Feel with your mouth.  Quit making sense of everything! Yeah, but Reddit logic dictates that if you don't see it it doesn't exist. Redditors have no object permanence. This explains all the reposts.   This explains all the reposts. Yeah, the only real problem I can see with this design is when the elevator gets crowded, or someone is careless and accidentally kicks the button resulting in an unnecessary stop.

Edit: Aside from wear and tear like was mentioned previously. But then what is the point of the foot buttons?! For people who want to use foot buttons. People in powered wheelchairs without sufficient motor control in their arms to press a button with their finger, but with the ability to bump into the foot button with their foot and/or chair.

Also people who have their hands full. Also, if you try to move furniture in there, have fun at the extra six stops. 5) Kids. I still laugh remembering how my nephew pressed every single button. My sister lived on the 17th floor. http://www.reddit.com/r/pics/comments/2urtn8/this_elevator_has_foot_buttons/cob51s2 The urge to kick would definitely overpower my kid's ability to follow my "do NOT kick the buttons" command. What about when it's crowded and it accidently gets hit or you can see the numbers [deleted] I heard the Burj Khalifa is installing these new foot buttons in every elevator. For 20+ buildings, you could just kick the buttons one after the other. Works for TVs since centuries.
 [Challenge accepted!](http://i.imgur.com/Hejaqhi.jpg) Nice one !bob Thanks!  I've had a lot of username comments over the years, but I think you're the first for !bob! Nice work.   Good gooooood, the more foot buttons the more likely we will develop opposable toes. I vote yes Didn't we just get rid of those?

Plus, none of my shoes would fit.  Great. Now instead of pushing a button repeatedly, some idiot will be kicking repeatedly.  Couldn't take the stairs to the second floor, you lazy bastard? You do realize there is a possibility of him being on the 5+ floor and he is going down? There's also a possibility that for demonstrative purposes he chose the second floor.  It was really a joke.  I don't care if he's a lazy bastard. Your shoes are hideous, man. They should put the numbers on the top of the buttons rather than the front. Interesting idea over all. Agreed. They'll wear out super fast otherwise. Berkeley Public Library?   These are the perfect buttons for the heavily inebriated. Yup, just fall on the floor and just kinda flail about until you hit the floor you're going to. You'll probably hi a bunch of other floors in the process, but you'll get there eventually, unless of course you pass out before you arrive. ...but why? Any courier/UPS/FedEx/DHL/etc. worker would gladly fellate the inventor of these foot buttons.

Source: am a delivery guy. I, uh, invented this. Delivery guys?  Arms full of pizza boxes? It's definitely some kind of freight elevator. Having convenient operation for people who know they will constantly have their hands full is the point.

I wouldn't be surprised if there were also a normal panel of wall buttons too, but those are no where near as interesting. It would definitely help minimize the spread of germs. Certain handicaps. 
...that people have.  We don't call them handicaps, we call them handicapped *people*. yo those shoes are disgusting That would suck having to lay down to press the buttons. I would love to see that in more places. I can't tell you how many times my hands are full when I get into the elevator and I have to awkwardly shove my body into the buttons to get the floor I want or even set everything down in the elevator just to press the button and hurriedly pick them back up again. 

Pressing the button with my foot would eliminate the entire ordeal and be a great convenience. Much more hygienic too. Now what will all those flu adverts use as an example? Have to go back to bus buttons.  The germaphobe in me loves this.  As a Jimmy Johns delivery driver I think this is Awesome. Reminds me of that riddle with the dwarf who has use the stairs when he gets home, because he can't reach the button where his floor is on but can use the elevator in the morning because the button is reachable. Was thinking of the same riddle. They ruined it now! I read that as Foot Burritos for some reason : / I want one. In my castle. Imaginary castle.  How many times does an elevator like this go to an unintended floor because someone backs up and accidentally kicks a button when making room for someone entering the lift? Three times.  egad those shoes What's the word for foot-button?  Usually "pedal", but I'm not sure that applies here.  Maybe something like "kickpad" or "kickplate" would work well. kickswitch! Isn't that a rad skateboarding manoeuvre? Futon? Is his a hospital? "Hey would you mind kicking 4 for me please" Would you kick 5 for me? Thanks. I can imagine little shitheads (kids) kicking all l the buttons and the big shitheads (parents) letting it happen... They should make these for crosswalks because I press the button with my foot anyway.  Has that ever gone wrong? I imagine some unsuspecting kid getting kicked in the head whilst trying to beat everyone to the button. Watch as they are all broken in a month because of people kicking the buttons with too much force. Nice loafers OP /r/mildlyinteresting might enjoy this /r/mildlyinteresting  Well.. Aren't they gonna get hit when luggage is put against the wall? They need these in public toilets /r/mildlyinteresting  As a courier with heavy stuff needed to be carried by hands, Thank you!! The one thing that made me feel like i wasnt a completely disabled person just got taken away from me. This is a sad day for all wheelchaired people. They probably have wall buttons too.  [/r/mildlyinteresting](http://reddit.com/r/mildlyinteresting) Could see a drunk guy having a grand old time with this. Berkeley Public Library, Downtown Branch perhaps? They need this for the Eiffel Tower.  I know a guy who tried to help a wounded hawk once.

It put him in the hospital for two weeks. Which is exactly why I just shut my door and called animal control. My dad was like, "OH HE'S PROLLY NOT THAT BIG, JUST THROW A TOWEL ON HIM AND TAKE HIM OUTSIDE BEFORE HE WAKES UP."

He failed to realize that the hawk was awake the entire time, and that I didn't have any pants on.  Wait, he also stole your pants? I said he was an asshole, didn't I? You didn't say yours was showing. Easy there, Joey. Eagle rape is serious business.  I'd be more concerned that something like [this](http://blog.cvsflags.com/wp-content/uploads/2012/05/mexican-flag.jpg) would play out in real life I always wished I could be an eagle. Not so I could fly.

I just wanna have sex with eagles. Good thing you didn't try to wrangle him. Prolly would've gone right for the penis. Early bird gets the worm? That's why he flew through the window in the first place. that asshole has 20/2 vision acuity so I'd be careful where you type about him because he can probably read it from way far Way far is one of those phrases that make me stop and think.

Like "look it."  How's that? That's how? 
 And how! "look it" always makes me think of Independence Day.

^(Edit: it's on the SYFY channel right now. And I'm extra sure I'm in the Truman Show.) "Look it" is real? People say that? It's said in the Disney Robin Hood film by a small fox. Therefore it is 100% legit. &gt;People

Children Oh also "How come?" "How ~~did it~~ come ~~to be~~?" TIL where how come came from. That was a weird sentence to type... TIL how how come came to be.  TIL how come [Whoa.](http://i.imgur.com/G6mfqCy.gif) Fuck. "Look it" looks extremely wrong and broken but I know I've said it ten thousand times in my life. 

Jesus Christ this is pissing me off. I think it comes from saying "Look *at* X" quickly and with our American accents. For example: "Look at that" sounds like "Look it that" when said quickly.

Edit: Only saying American because that is my lived experience; thus, I know it to be true. Could be true of other accents too. It's similar to how many pronounce "for" as "fir"/"fur." It's called "vowel shift," but these instances are on a much smaller, micro scale than the "Great Vowel Shift" in the past. When would you ever use "look it" in a sentence?  *shows you their phone* 

"look it"  As a response to just about anything. 

&gt; What does it mean? God only knows! But if ever you find yourself in a situation where you're not sure what to say, just go 'sure look it' and you'll fit in just fine.

- [Irish Central - 35 Irish sayings and phrases..., #1](http://www.irishcentral.com/culture/travel/35-irish-sayings-and-phrases-you-need-to-learn-before-you-visit-221197271-237785021.html) Right? In Pennsylvania people say weird shit all the time. Like "I'll step you through it" instead of "I'll take you through it step by step."  Don't forget good old "jawn" from Philly. I still don't know what it's supposed to mean.  Jawn is like smurf. It literally can replace any jawn. Jawn = Thing 

"That jawn is hot." 

It's a bastardization of joint. Of all the weird shit said in pennsylvania that one doesn't stand out to me specifically You should find his nest and shit in it. Maybe break some twigs &amp; spit on his kids for good measure.  Birds basically throw up in their own offspring's mouths to feed them, so something tells me they'll just thank you for the extra food if you spit on their children. _ptooey_

^^^yaaaaaaaaay! Rebirdgitate They just hawk it up. Eat a snickers bar, throw the wrapper on the floor, write "clean me" on the walls.  Wish we had more pics of what he destroyed and what the broken glass looks like. Well, it's all picked up now. I scrambleds to replace the glass ands gets everything cleaneds ups since its was a nice day yesterday. 

He scratcheds up the woodworks arounds my window, knocked all of mys pictures off the wall, knockeds everything off the tops of my dresser, scratcheds the tops of mys dresser, scratched mys headboard, screweds ups mys ceiling fans (he hits it multiple times while its was ons hi), knocked a basket of cleans clothes to the floor, and ripped up my curtains. 

He shit on mys curtains, pillows, bed, clothes, rug, ands the floor.

MOM SENT ME A PIC SHE TOOK OF THE WINDOW
http://imgur.com/sDb2Ntx For your sake I hope you've contacted an expert in bird law. This aggression won't stand, man. I'll go toe to toe on bird law. [Charlie Filibusters](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eEFB0ozhcUU) ***WHOOOOOOOOOOOOO'S the man in the SUUUUUUUUUUUIT?*** Something attorney ... Habeus corpus ... Something something  THE AUDACITY TO KNOCK OVER A BASKET OF CLEAN CLOTHES! That bird just doesn't give a fuck.  Does he not understand how costly laundry can be these days? OR DOES HE JUST NOT CARE?! Did... did OP just turn into [Skwisgaar Skwigelf?](http://i.imgur.com/yfS7GPV.jpg) [Reddit Skwisgaarifyer](https://chrome.google.com/webstore/detail/reddit-skwisgaarifyer/bkigffbamdggjllmcgacjcgigognnoca?utm_source=chrome-app-launcher-info-dialog)

You're welcomes. From what I understand this is what is was like to live with Robert Downey Jr. in the 80s How long was he in there for? How did you discover him
?  I was home when he crashed through the window. I had gotten out of bed probably 30 minutes earlier and had just put my corgi out. I thought a tree had fallen through my window or someone was trying to break in (I have bars on the back of my house but not the front). So I got up to go see what was up, saw a bird sitting on my rug looking dazed and confused, slammed the door shut, said "WHAT THE FUCK," and then called my dad and animal control. It took them about 45 minutes to get to my house and haul him off. pic of corgi requested. http://iconosquare.com/drewnold

Every good picture of her is in there somewhere. a fluffy! its genetic monster! I realize that you the bird did screw your shit up while you were waiting, but really, you did the right thing waiting for Animal Control.  Raptors are very powerful, and if you tried to get it out of your house there is a good chance that you could have done serious damage to you and the bird in the process. I love that you called your dad.  DAD OMG HELP

"Don't be a pansy, put a towel on it and take him outside."

HOW ABOUT NO I DONT HAVE PANTS ON Well for what its worth at least you have an interesting story to tell ! And on top of that, its a beautiful looking bird and picture.
 Wash EVERYTHING you can. Bird mites are fucking disgusting and will make you itch like a motherfucker. Vacuum as thoroughly as you can and throw out anything that's beyond help.  Everything that was out is either in the wash, waiting to be washed, or in the trash. 

Thanks! That's ridiculous. I"m a wild bird rehabilitator specializing in songbirds and raptors. If bird mites were that bad I'd be infested. They are looking for FEATHERS. They are feather mites.  People sure do spout off some shit.  Don't even worry. Just practice basic hygiene cleaning up any shit. I'm happy to answer questions about this - I"m the person who rescues these hawks in my part of the country.
 "I am SO high right now!" For the first 5 minutes he just sat on his ass looking around like, "What the FUCK just happened?" I think I would too if I smashed through two panes of glass. He was probably concussed. That why he couldn't speak to the media afterwards Maybe he was just there so he wouldn't get fined. YOU DON'T HAVE ENOUGH BADGES TO TRAIN ME! 

OBLIGATORY EDIT: Thank you for the Gold. I don't think I deserve it for such a clich Reddit quote but I'm glad it spurred thousands of pokemon comments.  We don't need no stinking badges.  All we need is thought control.

(Sorry, for some reason, I read that to the tune of Another Brick in the Wall) Pt. 2 Hey! Trainers! Leave those kids aloonnnee So this in conjunction with OPs post really made me wonder...how do trainers clean the pokeballs? I mean, there's got to be shit in there just like any other pet, right? Are trainers not only forcefully confining their pokemon to a tiny, crampt space, but even worse, are sending them to live in pools if their own filth?

I mean, they're already making animals fight for sport when you think about it. Objectively it's pretty fucked in the head all around. I assume the Pokemon aren't literally shrunk down and crammed into the balls, but are instead stored digitally and recreated when released or something like that [That just raises further questions!](http://i.imgur.com/kgZ7vDk.jpg) The biggest one of which would be why isn't there teleportation in the Pokemon universe as you could store an object, or living animal, as data and then transmit it to another ball to be released...   
edit: If you're about to comment to tell that there are teleporters please don't, 20 other people already have Silph co was full of teleporter pads. The fuck yiu talking bout? Sabrina's gym too.  And when you had an Abra you could teleport to the last Pokemon Center you were at. What if they enslaved a team of Abras to make Pokemon storage possible? Wouldn't that explain why they get skittish around people and always teleport away without getting pidgey level aggressive? &gt;pidgey level aggressive

Bitch please, the true level of aggressiveness is a mother fucking Zubat! Bringing the fucking heat. I love it! But then why the fuck do we have to walk everywhere? Why is everyone skinny but hikers?  Holy shit. Now THIS is question  asking the real questions!!!! Well, there basically is, for pokmeon.  At least in the video games, you can put a pokemon into your computer in one city, fly to another city across the continent, and then pull the same grinning little fellow out to lay the smackdown on some 5th grader who's a just a little too proud of his wormple.

Not sure why you can't do it with people.  Presumably either there's something fundamentally different between humans and pokemon,  or [there is something about pokemon storage that they're not telling us.](http://www.awkwardzombie.com/index.php?page=0&amp;comic=101110) Don't forget about all the clones in every single city. Same cop, same nurse, same construction worker **EVERYWHERE**

Oh and don't get me started on that motherfucker of the professor waiting for you to leave the house to go visit your mom. Damn professor oak was a g. He sent all the kids in his town off on some dangerous adventure so the town is full of hot moms wanting a good dicking. Including his daughter (   ). What if the player character is just really racist, xenophobic and unsocial, and you see every cop and nurse as the same because you internally think they're the same? So the player is autistic? Would fit with the desire to collect all of them. So you're saying I shouldn't vaccinate my Pokemon? That explains why she always winks at you after handing you back "your" Pokmon. That link goes to a hand drawn comic about getting snowed in and playing Dragon Age. Not for me? Linked to a page with [this](http://i49.photobucket.com/albums/f278/katietiedrich/comic170.png) image.  That's disturbing Why does "awkward" look like bird speak? It is also shown in the episodes when Ashe asks Oak to get some Pokemons send for league fights. The Pokeball is just teleported out of nothing. In the games there are teleporters in some of the bad guy hideouts. And in the Alpha Sapphire/Omega Ruby post game the scientists at the space center are attempting to teleport an asteroid away from the earth. No idea if teleporters are in the anime or mangas but they are in game In the show Ashe definitely sends some of his extra pokemon to Prof. Oak's lab. That one episode where he sends his Crabby and sees his Taurus on the screen I think is an example? At the end of the 27th episode of pokemon, Misty's psyduck is shown [inside a pokeball](http://cdn.bulbagarden.net/upload/6/6e/Misty_Psyduck_inside_Pok%C3%A9_Ball.png) On the other hand, the show makes it clear that [Ash's Taruos](http://bulbapedia.bulbagarden.net/wiki/Ash%27s_Tauros) and other pokemon end up roving around on essentially a farm. They probably only stay *in* ball when they're being transported by a trainer for battle (since those take place off the network infrastructure). Really the only thing that's unclear is if they're being turned into data or shrunk, but both scenarios lead to mysterious losses of mass with no clear or (real world logical) explanation. unless you think of the whole Pokemon world as just a "matrix" like simulation. Then all of these fanciful animals are just data, as is your avatar representation/the world.  Maybe they aren't only shrunk down just enough to fit inside. Maybe they're shrunk so much that the Pokeball becomes their own little world to live in when they're not being used, like a full on habitat. Pokeballs are made with Time Lord technology. I always pictured that pokemon get shrunk into tiny little versions of themselves and the inside of pokeballs are like little homes with bathrooms, food and whatnot. :) Machamp has a mini gym :3 Gotta lift them tiny weights. YOU'RE NOT MY SUPERVISOR!  Need to post in /r/birdsbeingdicks noooooooooooooooo, and i thought to myself this is my time to shine with some obscure subreddit link... :( [I still love you.](http://i.imgur.com/2RJb6xy.gifv) I'm just going to sit here and wait for the photoshoping to begin. http://i.imgur.com/xleKV2f.jpg i mean, i laughed. /thread. I laughed and now I feel guilty That is horribly offensive. Have an upvote. Oh you The birds are becoming more aggressive in their attempts to shit on our nice things. We all have that one friend... birds of a feather... Are flocking outside  Like whippets they dance, in a curlicue dance It's just a prank, bro!  Chill! Here's proof for the doubters.


Broken window.
http://imgur.com/sDb2Ntx


Pictures of me (I don't look like the animal control guy) and a video of the bird and the corgi.
http://iconosquare.com/drewnold Did you just give out your real name, part of your credit card number and signature? And approximate location and timezone and receipt barcode! It's K. Nothing bad ever happens on the Internet. Also connecting all of that to [this image.](http://iconosquare.com/p/524151826395506582_33802888) Maybe that's why god sent a large carnivorous bird to wreak havoc in his bedroom: corny, racist jokes. Yeah, he should prolly delete that receipt picture. I love that the animal control guy is so blase about the whole thing that he's just making a call on his phone while he's got a hawk on his arm. Beaking and entering. I see you're a leagle expert. He's a talonted guy. Owl vouch for that! Just another feather in is cap. You and your fowl puns. Your comment made me finch.  Toucan play at this game. Don't be a dodo,  there are more than 2 people in the thread More than two? I'll take your bird for it. bird Freedom doesnt knock anymore, it breaks and enters.  http://i.imgur.com/ADWQePm.jpg Dude... I've been wanting to get into [parahawking](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pd5BMP_41bI) for ages, but the people I've talked to say it's best to find your bird in the wild if it's injured or whatever. You had your spirit animal literally fly through your window, and you let it go! I dunno.  I would be nervous something like [this](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZGzzSIZvA40) would happen.   Never has one eagle been the recipient of so much Russian cussing.  Great link, thanks. When he called him a winged condom was my favorite Brb have to go sort this dickload of shit out. "so... sorry for the cursing, fuck."

Hahahahahahaha

&lt;&lt;insert impressive string of russian cursing&gt;&gt;

Love the subtitles.

And that ending. "That's right, fly away bitch" Wow that's incredible. I can't believe it actually stayed still and that he was able to touch it's foot.   ...what have I done? 
I will never do anything that cool, now. You set it free. If it comes back and destroys your shit again, you know it's meant to be. That's not a smile, that's a PereGRIN

EDIT: Pretty sure it's a Golden Eagle now; thank you, kind, gilding stranger! () http://i.imgur.com/IQSK4Qy.gif Did not expect a bird. Expected my college pal Steve.  This is classic Steve. That's actually kind of cool.  I mean, sad for the bird, but kind of cool that you got to hang out with a hawk.  Or falcon.  Whatever it is.   Red-Tailed hawk. 3.5' wingspan. His talons had to be two inches long. 
Falcons break the neck of their prey. Hawks rip their prey to shreds with their beak and talons. 

The hawk got away unscathed save for 3 broken tail feathers. That's awesome.  I figured it was a red-tailed, but wasn't sure.  Glad he's alright, I love seeing them in my backyard.  

I've had a lot of birds kill themselves on windows at my parent's house, it's sad.  I've had to put a few of them out of their misery a few times because they hit the window on the second story, break their neck, fall to the ground and then just fluster around.  :-(
 It'll make for a good story. We figured he was chasing something and it out maneuvered him. If he would have flown 1' left, up, or right he would have been a pancake. I had my curtains closed, so it's not like he didn't see the window, which from my understanding is why most birds hit windows. &gt;  If he would have flown 1' left, up, or right he would have been a pancake.

So maybe he was smarter to have hit the window.

Also, while I'm posting ... when I looked at the pic I imagined his saying, "DUDE.  I am SOOOO SORRY!" &gt; Also, while I'm posting ... when I looked at the pic I imagined his saying, "DUDE. I am SOOOO SORRY!"

That made me laugh out loud. A bird flew into one of our windows a few years ago. I heard a thump against the glass, looked out the window and sure enough there's decent sized bird of some kind, face-planted into the deck next to the window and surrounded by a pile of loose feathers. Not moving.

An hour or so later I went out to remove the corpse. When I was about a foot away it tweeted, flipped over and sat upright looking at me for a few seconds. It had a nosebleed. It stared at me blinking for a few seconds, tweeted again and hurtled into the air, apparently more or less fine.

Knocked itself clean out, but apparently they can take a fair bit of punishment. I've also heard that the reflection can confuse them, where it just looks like the background.   Goddammit Tobias!! Plot twist: OP is Visser Three. did it rip up your pillows? if I had claws like that, that would be the first thing I would do. [No way!](http://i.imgur.com/1xx9Z.gif) He looks coked out of his little bird brain Ah.  I see you've met my brother-in-law. O sure, a bird does it and he gets help for recovery and released. Me, I get put in cuffs. When bird open mouth breath they are either super stressed or hot! Fun fact! PSA: if you find a hawk or eagle laying down with its mouth open, it's exhausted and dehydrated. It needs electrolytes and moisture in it's mouth. The easiest way to save its life is to teabag it. That doesn't sound quite right, but I don't know enough about bird care to dispute it... What if you're a chick? Do I have to rub my meat curtains on it? /r/falconpunchablefaces/ ? Is that a sub for falcons that you want to punch, or people that you want to FALCON PAAUNNNCHHH in the face? Yes. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eQf_JLBh0Zc That expression says, "Wow! What a rush!" Upvote because you didn't start the title with "Just" or "So".

Yes, I have been on reddit too long. Those feathers, tho... Stunningly beautiful, even if he's a bit of a prick with wings.  "I'm sorry! I thought this was America!" Did it peck at your nuts? My bedroom hawk is always trying to steal my testicles.  I didn't have any pants on, so I thought it best to keep my distance. He does look amazingly pleased with himself. Cocky son of a bitch Chickenhawks have always been a bit [full of themselves](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2nuOneeQ5M). I'm not near my pc and Photoshop but this needs a "Thug Life" tag and /psbattles Does homeowner insurance cover this? Hawk-ward!

I'll escort myself off the premises now. http://vignette4.wikia.nocookie.net/epicrapbattlesofhistory/images/6/68/Hawkward.png/revision/latest/scale-to-width/594?cb=20130624175557 Aww, he's frightened. Lighten up.  Its a fledgling. Be glad it wasn't wounded. I had a deer crash though a sliding screen door! Thank God the glass wasn't closed! You know those double doors? He ran through the house and I opened the front and garage doors and off he went! Since then I leave 50 lbs sacks of dried corn and deer chow.  He looks in my bedroom window walks right up the deck whenever its empty!  I live on several (more than 15) my neighbour owns 159 acres so not surprising. I have two hawks I leave carcasses out for. Its 4 feet of snow here an they would have a hell of a time trying to survive. I also feed the birds- have four bird feeders and roost boxes. A deer blind they sleep there all the time. I don't care who doesn't like it.  When they can afford their acreage they can run it it however they see fit.  I take in animals that hunters haven't killed and rehab them through a kind vet that live near me. Also things hit by cars, etc. You sound like an amazing person. Why thank you! I just did what came to me naturally. You made my day kind stranger. Most people dislike my nurturing of animals.  They tend to think of animals as destructive. I like you. I like me on occasion as well.  Thanks much. Your living situation sounds awesome.  Joy doesn't begin to describe it. For me anyhow. Ron Swanson? Yeah, he doesn't look like he's smiling, so much as he looks absolutely terrified. He should be alright as long as he's not injured. That's a whole bunch of rehab.  I take care of two hawks and hang chicken carcasses in certain pine trees for them.  It helps keep them wild, fed and sheltered. Had a vet check on them and this was his recommendation along with some antibiotics. They were shot at by someone and didn't die.  I came across them on my daily rounds. Farmers sometimes fire warning shots and try to miss. Thank God they were minor injuries but enough to not have rhen die a slow death due to starvation.  Now they call my place home and so do a few Eagles.With all this snow I am helping more and more wildlife this year. There are some farms in the area with free roaming chickens and turkeys and a wildlife preserve of about 1500 acres combined. It all butts onto my road. Nothing makes my heart feel so full as when I am privy to helping another creature. I am humbled everytime. Should have arrested him. Break and enter is ill-eagle.  Tobias!  This is what you do in that situation:Attach a tracker to it, then follow it to its nest and pee all over it to show dominance. I wonder what the verdict is going to be seeing as Bird Law is involved. That's definitely ill eagle! /r/dadjokes Are you sure you haven't been invited to hogwarts and they have a new post method. Well what else could he say  "Squaaawk" He looks so pleased with himself.     I have that same grin when I shit on somebodies stuff. Try it sometime! What kind of bird is this? Red-tailed hawk. Best post ever. Holy shit.  Got you on the top of the front page, though, so there's at least that. You should name him.  How 'bout "Mike".  "Mike Hawk".  Mike Hawk is big.  This happened to me when I was a kid! Red-tailed hawk flew straight through the picture window, landed on the dining room table, shook off the glass, and proceeded to fly around the house, dive-bombing my family and our cat. We still have talon scratches on the living room panes where it tried to escape out the other picture window.


I've spent the subsequent years bemoaning the fact that cell phone cameras did not exist when this happened. Sue him. I hear hawks can't bear clawsuits. And if you need a wingman, I can help. He would probably try to come up with an alibi, but in the end he may just wing it. I have the eyes of an eagle for spotting a liar, so he won't fly out of the situation as well as he thinks. I don't know man, he looks like a high flyer. Could probably afford a talonted leagle team. So it won't be cheep and when the claws come out these birdshits don't prey games they're straight in for the kill. The first sheep to carve the way must be a badass  Likely [this guy](http://i.imgur.com/d0ap7Mw.jpg) Baa-dass

FTFY Baa-dum-tss That's neat! [deleted] The *warm* sheep shit trail. Sounds like a win to me. Just use [this guy](http://i.imgur.com/AP7adfZ.gif) that's amazing Choo choo! Probably a goat Or a little bitch the other sheep can just push around. I wonder what would happen if you dug the trail so it made a loop. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=z9k3b3mq7XM Some music to [accompany](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LCEDYfrOxyU) : D This kills the sheep. NO! ^Do ^not ^kill ^the ^sheep.  ^^I ^^like ^^them. Worryingly relevant username. Oh lawd. Didn't catch that.  

[...or did I? (   )](/spoiler) Welsh heritage confirmed. Do you also enjoy donkeys?  Here's a VICE documentary for you:

http://youtu.be/_VKWLC87Uzw?t=9m49s Sheep wants to get off of Mr. Bones' Wild Ride. Did not expect RCT reference. Thanks for making my morning I mean.. are they going somewhere with any purpose? &gt; Are they going somewhere with any purpose?

[Do you?](http://fc00.deviantart.net/fs70/i/2013/048/1/a/not_all_those_who_wander_are_lost__by_wanderflower-d5vaf0i.jpg)   Not all that have a destination, know where they're going. Not all those who have a ticket catch the bus. Not all those who have a ticket have a seat. 

-United Airlines United Airlines allow you to stand? None of those who know where they are know how fast they are going.  

--Heisenberg Say my name.

--Heisenberg &gt;Say my name

--Destiny's Child Yes, thank you Yasuo Food, water, shelter. Probably one of those. http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ant_mill That is incredible. Ants really are one of the most interesting species on Earth. www.youtube.com/watch?v=3Rup3EdA0kw
 You'll have to put the sheep inside somehow. infinisheep?
 Looks like its time for me to go to bed.  http://i.imgur.com/eF8p4eM.gif I'm so turned on right now. A+ joke Yup, me too. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2kX8KWGzSHU Kijk NS, zo moet het. /r/BitchImATrain ?? I enjoyed that way too much. Thank you.  http://youtu.be/Yja2VmZOfdA

This video has an inverse Wadsworth constant - only the first 1/3 is worth watching. Same as full metal jacket really :p KiwiRail? Fuck yeah! huhaahuhaww oooohohooo Weird, I'm on a binge and I immediately yawned when i looked at this picture. Ewe funny guy ewe! I can't handle this level of pun Agreed. Snowpiercer? I just watched it yesterday. One of the more interesting sci fi movies I've seen. Just the right amount of creepy. And some plot holes big enough to drive a flock of sheep through. "This action movie on a post apocalyptic train is very unrealistic." I think there is a difference between a crazy premise for a plot and shitty writing. The plot holes aren't about 'realism' it's questioning how much the writers cared/paid attention.  Never underestimate reddit's ability to hate a movie  It was great up until the ending.  That was a very healthy looking Polar Bear, considering everything on earth had died... That polar bear looked hungry  This movie comes up in so many places on reddit.. I'm just glad I watched it so now I get it.  We ride single-file to hide our numbers. I had to scroll further down than I wanted to find this comment. Then there's [this guy](http://i.imgur.com/pq4g8Kl.png).  I gave him a more realistic Reddit look. [M'sheep](http://i.imgur.com/jKt11by.jpg) M'ewe*. L'MAO Sean? very cool that they all follow each other like, like, like...what's the word I'm looking for here? Lemmings. ugh, sheeple...bah hahaha bah hahaha...yay BAAA-hahaha Cacti. horses I know their pain. ;)

Love you mom! hahahahahahahahaha! Love you too chum! **XO** The *fuck* is going on here. This ain't family Christmas, catch up in your own time! : D

*My California born and bred son is going to grad school in the East Coast, 60+" in 3 weeks.  This is so cool, please keep us posted. Do you know what 4twenty means? I do. He's a big boy. :)  Well that's refreshing Maybe should have chosen a different username if you know your mom is on reddit :D Oh, she knows. A lot better than many of you might expect. 

And I was on reddit first haha I love this picture! It looks like a train For lamb eaters it is a chew-chew train.  c'mon ride it https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B-DpRcxK_N8 ovine centipede In Boston. I feel bad for the one at the back of the line who got caught at the wrong time during the shave cycle. "Just my luck, I get shaved right before a freaking blizzard." FTFY: Shear cycle

Edit: although, to be fair, shaved sheep may pass as adult entertainment in New Zealand Maybe for perverts and fetishisers. A real kiwi bloke enjoys the natural look. Source https://twitter.com/F3euskalherri/status/561960839608295424 That's not the source. It has been running around like that and other regions for a couple of days, but the picture is older. The views all the same unless you're the lead sheep. And then suddenly, moose At least the have warm coats on. Everyone should watch the documentary [Sweetgrass](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sweetgrass_%28film%29). It's about sheep ranchers in Montana leading their sheep out to graze through the Beartooth Mountains. Who needs border collies? Ewe-man centipede. This will probably be in 9gag titled ''Our generation" Nice pic! Where was it taken OP? Meanwhile, in Boston. Picture taken from the inside of an insomniac's brain. These are all the sheep she has to count tonight. what country is that if i may ask ? [Crete, Greece.] (http://www.zarpa.gr/%CF%84%CE%BF-%CE%BC%CE%BF%CE%BD%CE%BF%CF%80%CE%AC%CF%84%CE%B9-%CF%84%CF%89%CE%BD-%CF%80%CF%81%CE%BF%CE%B2%CE%AC%CF%84%CF%89%CE%BD-%CE%BC%CE%AD%CF%83%CE%B1-%CF%83%CF%84%CE%B1-%CF%87%CE%B9%CF%8C%CE%BD/) Wake up sheeple! each sheep is like "yes. i can see white fluff in front of me, good." "Those Tuskens walk like men, but they're vicious, mindless monsters. .... riding in single file to conceal their numbers," haha Winter rush hour in Ireland This Skyrim mod is bugged, this would never happen in real life. The snow was beautiful and white. Now it is just...ewe. The thumbnail looks like a guy riding a wolf while holding a blade up in the air.  The one in front could potentially break the record for world's biggest cropdust. Oh fuck, we need to turn them around.. This is a wolf's dream. Are those 72 virgins? Poor sheepsies. Snowy conditions on the Autobaahaahn. You should post this to /r/desirepath sheep army Talk about following the straight and narrow. Where Babe,  All I keep thinking is baa, ram, ewe when I look at that.  The four year old's favorite movie, must have seen it 80 times.   This instantly reminds me of a book series I read as a kid. I had to google a bit since it's been too many years since I last read it, but the series is Emily Rodda's "Rowan of Rin". Really mature book for a young children's series. RemindMe! 8760 hours. VALLEY OF THE SHEEP
 [Follow the leader](http://gifsound.com/?gif=i.imgur.com/r9svZIz.png&amp;v=95gP3m-uBHA&amp;s=83) i love it fnow Should post to /r/oddlysatisfying That's fantastic! Is this the gate view in Breaking Bad when Walter is in NH? I'm cheesin' so hard right now.  That is amazing.  It's so crazy how they always stay so orderly...such sheep All this needs now are some snowraptors. "Isn't the shed over that way?  Who's leading today?"

"Steve."

"Oh ffs....STEVE! YOU'VE COCKED IT UP AGAIN!" The first one looks like it belongs to Rorschach from watchmen...or the psychologist of the same name  test They always travel in single file, to hide their numbers. Just where are these sheep headed? Not to pasture with all the snow! Love the pic!  Nobody say it!  Those sheep are rolling deep Demonstrates the principle that unless you are the lead sheep, the view never changes. They always travel single-file to hide their numbers. that is going to be my drive to work this morning Moving sheepishly along I see.. unBAHHHlievable Someone Photoshop this with the snowpiercer poster Sheeps are awesome. I have socks made of 100% sheep wool, never had this amount of worm nature around my body-part. Well.. around  feet actually.  Imagine dropping a wolf into the middle of that Ho! Ho! Ho! Some baaad weather out there. Sheep Traaaaaain. Your TICKET to a better night's sleep.  That looks so SCHTEEP! Single file, fall in line. Excellent shot. Really well captured in such bad conditions. Thanks for sharing. Wool yew look at that? great shot!  Clearly the photographer is astride the front sheep, leading the mighty charge. Sheep will not take that much load "Fuck this." -Sheep #1 And the photographer is standing there blocking the trail. The The o8 The The  "The Trail of Bahhs" Smart wolf. The trail leads right into his lair.  Shoulda taken one with the sheep in it
 I bet the caboose sheep has to put up with a lot of shit. The folks over at /r/DesirePath would enjoy this reddit meetup? Anal Like lambs to the slaughter Sheep Snow Train [Exceelllllent.](http://m8.i.pbase.com/o6/75/646675/1/73695588.33qwiKAN.Wolf1178APCS.jpg) I clicked because the thumbnail looked like someone wielding a sword is riding a sheep Someone photo shop this please 
 Its almost as satisfying as peeling off the thin plastic on a new device  They walk in lines to hide their numbers  Reminds me of the trenches in World War I hmm, this must be how they cut luge/bobsled tracks. Huh, an oddly accurate representation of reddit [the pack is on the prowl](http://i.imgur.com/bJYte.jpg) 