And what are the chances that opting out will actually make them stop? I read in a different article on this (that I not so conveniently can't find right now) that even if you opt out they still collect the data.  They just don't send you ads based on the data.   http://www.reddit.com/r/technology/comments/2w2zwo/att_to_match_google_fiber_speeds_prices_in_kansas/conalnn

"AT&amp;T may collect and use web browsing information for other purposes, as described in our Privacy Policy, even if you do not participate in the Internet Preferences program." Parasitic little buggers, aren't they? Truly AT&amp;T is the...um...the AT&amp;T of phone companies. AT&amp;T is the comcast of phone companies Ma Bell been shitty before cable was even a thing. Disgusting.  Typical.  For AT&amp;T. So a customer pays for a subscription which generates ad revenue for AT&amp;T... or they can pay that revenue directly to AT&amp;T if they don't want to be enrolled in the ad program?  

This is what happens when financial investors dictate a product's direction. So they try to be sneaky about it Is there something potentially illegal about this? I'm going to refer this to www.crowdsuit.com and maybe their attorneys will look at it.  I had no idea something like this even existed... this should be more popular. You should sign up and spread the word. The business model only works if they have lots of people sign up. Oh it's probably illegal but they have better lawyers. The chances are very good that they'll tell you they stopped. They won't, though. They'll come up with some made-up excuse like "Due to the way the program was implemented, the cost to individually switch off the program for an individual user was determined to be too high for AT&amp;T to be reasonably expected to actually follow through." Or they'll just outright state in the contract that they'll continue to monitor and collect your information regardless of whether or not you spend your $29. 
&gt;AT&amp;T may collect and use web browsing information for other purposes, as described in our Privacy Policy, even if you do not participate in the Internet Preferences program.

The $29 is just a "Stupid User" fee. People who, if asked, say they really care about privacy and value it and blah blah blah but really don't know what they're talking about. Hang on, this is AT&amp;T we're talking about.  You'll have to spend at least an hour with customer support for a few billing cycles for them to acknowledge that you're paying for them to have you "opt out" Couldn't you sue them for breach of contract? No because its part of the contract that even if you opt-out you haven't fully opted out.

http://www.reddit.com/r/technology/comments/2w2zwo/att_to_match_google_fiber_speeds_prices_in_kansas/conalnn[1]

"AT&amp;T may collect and use web browsing information for other purposes, as described in our Privacy Policy, even if you do not participate in the Internet Preferences program."
 I love how "Internet Preferences" is somehow supposed to sound like a good thing...which is so good that you have to pay money to not have it. "You're search for a reputable contract lawyer has been blocked due to the Terms of Service Agreement" Its already well established that all ISPs collect that data and pass it on to the NSA. They couldn't stop even if they wanted to. That's kinda my point.  I can't fathom what you could possibly get for the $29. Theoretically nothing an ad block plugin couldn't stop right? Everything you do is running through an AT&amp;T owned server at some point. Of course they aren't going to stop.  I would rather spend $30 a month on a quality VPN service and give ATT the finger. or $40 for the year! https://www.privateinternetaccess.com/pages/buy-vpn/ I've been very happy with PIA. On my desktop it maxes out a 60mbps connection.

It's significantly slower on my laptop, though I suspect it's the laptop rather than the service. I'm guessing the desktop processor has some form of hardware for the type of encryption the vpn uses whereas the laptop doesn't. Hardware AES decryption is a fairly recent feature (and it still isn't available on some i3 processors). You gave me something to google.  I feel like learning :D

Time to go get lost on Wikipedia and somehow end up learning the history of the Blitzkrieg and where Poppy's origininated from. Last time I did that it ended in a 4-hour BBC documentary series about the space race. Worth it. I went to the LotR wiki once. 

Once.  Got lost in the mines of Moria ^(article)?  Shit I didn't even get there. Too caught up in the rise and fall of Melkor.  I love the fact that the entire LotR series takes place *after* the Good vs. Evil fight. He's still there It's still open in another tab, isn't it? It's open in the other 40 tabs. Some say he's still there You know you're screwed when you decide to pull out a pen and paper to start trying to make your own graphs and family trees...  I discovered the history of mongolian chinese relations. Spoiler alert - there's been some rough patches I know what I need to try and find for tonight's entertainment! But seriously... That does sound awesome. Saved you the hassle - [All 4 as a playlist on youtube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xcLphSY8PX0&amp;list=PLOvQKNO5LGL5EDksW8V9mXYKbqhKRHxWg) Now you're just enabling a thousand procrastinators.

I hope you're proud of yourself......someday. Somehow he managed to save me time, and also waste it! That is awesome; thanks! Last time I did that it ended in me watching porn.  Well that's how a lot of things end up, but my point still stands. Where Poppy's what originated from? Don't leave us hanging man. report back later. Im interested in the history of poppys too, but don't have the time today to read about Charlie Chaplin in his younger years I have documented my travels for you, stranger.  Note: I like to keep my learnings brief, if my interest isn't sparked I don't usually travel very far down the page.  Bad things happen when you go too deep into Wiki.  Note 2: I'm also giving brief 411's of what I come across along with other stuff I'm doing, so the times here are a bit askew.

- 11:00 AM - Googling "Hardware AES decryption" led me to Wiki's [Advanced Encryption Standard Instruction Set](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/AES_instruction_set) page...but it was bare, so I hopped over to the main [AES](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Advanced_Encryption_Standard) page; many more blue links here.  Basically, it's an addition to "normal things CPU's do" to include encrypt &amp; decryption of electronic data.  It supercedes/replaces Data Encryption Standard; from '77.  Fun fact: AES beat out 15 other "competitors" over a 5 year process to become the Federal Information Processing Standard in '01, it is also included in the/as a ISO/IEC standard.  High speed &amp; low RAM requirements were a criteria for its implementation; older CPU's could use AES at 20-60MB/s, while i3's and up have up to 700MB/s per thread.  For reference, a toaster could maybe do 128KB/s.

- 11:08 AM - Let's see what [DES](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Data_Encryption_Standard) was all about.  Developed by IBM (surprise, surprise) to protect sensitive unclassified government data, aforementioned National Bureau of Standards (NBS) chose a slightly different encryption technique (+3 buff to differential cryptanalysis, -3 debuff to bruteforce) and due to NSA's adoption, DES (or it's similar brethren, not sure) was widespread almost immediately.  What the fuck is differential cryptanalysis?

- 11:14 AM - [Differential Cryptanalysis](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Differential_cryptanalysis) is a specific form of study to identify hidden aspects of information systems.  Loosely akin to "hacking" a single-player game with Cheat Engine to find the value of your "health bar" (bar, not number.  A specific health number doesn't need to be "found", you know exactly what it is), and lock it so you never die...in a way.  "chosen-plaintext attack" sounds like I can hack someone with Notepad.  This looks promising.

- 11:19 PM - The brief description of [Chosen-plaintext attack](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Chosen-plaintext_attack) is confusing as fuck.  Basically, it applies cryptanalysis techniques to gain more information about the "cipher" (the 'key' to encrypted information), assuming that the victim of the "attack" has the partial unencrypted message, and the cipher.  Kind of like WW2 codebreakers; they were plaintext cryptanalysists, if I understand this correctly.  Brain is beginning to beg for mercy.  These big words aretoo much for me to handle; I'm gonna back up and check out this attack model page.

I closed all other tabs at this point; there's no going back now

- 11:24 AM - [Attack Models](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Attack_model) are basically a testing ground for cryptanalysts.  They specify how much information the cryptanalyst has access to, and they attempt to see if they can break the cipher; gaining access to the sensitive data.  I could understand this as a much more complicated form of "bruteforce my password, it's between 8 and 10 digits long, has no 'a' in it, and has only two numbers".  This page has a link to lead me back to Chosen-plaintext attack; I'm not making that mistake again.  Farther down is stuff about Related-key attacks and how WEP (FAMILIAR TERM!) was vulnerable to it.  Finally, something that makes sense to me.  Let's refresh ourselves on WEP, because I only know it as "wifi password type".

*sips coffee*

- 11:29 AM - A steady 5m/page.  Not fuckin' bad for all this typing &amp; wiki standards, but I'm not too into the whole "bigass words I have to google while I read" thing, so I've honestly just been skimming. [Wired Equivalent Privacy](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wired_Equivalent_Privacy) is basically the grandfather of [Wifi-Protected Access](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wi-Fi_Protected_Access) (WPA); which has knocked WEP-40 and WEP-104 (less &amp; more secure WEP connections, respectively).

This I did not know; WPA &gt; WEP.  WEP has been/is being deprecated.  'sup with WPA.

- 11:36AM - WPA was developed by the Wi-Fi Alliance.  Hahahaha fuck the rest of the page, these guys sound hilarious.

- 11:37 AM - The [Wi-Fi Alliance](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wi-Fi_Alliance) is a non-profit organization that promotes Wi-Fi security.  No shit.  They even have a [logo](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wi-Fi_Alliance#mediaviewer/File:Wi-Fi_Alliance_Logo.svg) and everything.  They're loosely a group of companies, 3Com (sounds familiar), Nokia (UNBREAKABLE WI-FI, ANYONE??), Symbol Technologies (now Motorola).  The page also lists some big-name sponsors; Apple, Intel, Sony, LG just to name a few.  Good shit here.  The "WiFi-Certified" logo/certification does supposedly cost a fair bit, but it sounds like these guys are rather prestigious.  Big entry here, but this was notable: "*A focus on user experience has shaped the overall approach of the Wi-Fi Alliance certification program: Wi-Fi Certified products have to demonstrate that they can perform well in networks with other Wi-Fi Certified products, running common applications, in situations similar to those encountered in everyday use.*"  They basically beat the fuck out of the routers until they establish what it takes to make them "not work".

My coffee is finished; I must refill.  If it interests the reddits, I may document my further travels, but something tells me it's going to stay IT-relevant.  I read up on that last page for a good 20~ minutes.

*edit* GOLD?!  Thank you, fellow tube warrior.  I will continue my adventure after I handle some RL stuff.  Thank you for supporting my thirst for knowledge.  Typing this stuff out actually helps memory retention.  If you're vaguely interested, check back in a bit.  &lt;3

*edit2* It goes without saying I will respond to this comment.

*edit3* Wikiwarrior Adventure #2 is up; responded to this comment. My attention is divided between managing my friend's Twitch stream giveaway, and Wikii-ing.  The times will be even more askew.  Continuing from the Wi-Fi Alliance:

- 1:07 PM - [Interoperability](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Interoperability) was a term I came across a few times...it's exactly as it sounds: a loose term for the ability of making features, devices, corporations or groups of people work together - inter-operate.  Like you guys urging me to further my IT knowledge; we're Interoperating.  Like a well-oiled machine, my friend.  This can get gruesomely specific, let's break it down (I'm sorry if this looks dumb, I don't know how to make Reddit syntax look pretty):

Syntactic interoperability - If two or more systems can community, they Syntactically Interoperate.  If you're reading this comment, your computer has Syntacically Interoperated its packets to &amp; from Reddits server.  Congratulations!  You've successfully configured your machine to Interoperate, syntactically.  WE'RE INTEROPERATING!!! *waves hands in the air*

Semantic interoperability - The automatic interpretation of data &amp; information exchanged meaningfully and accurately.  Kind of like speaking to someone with broken English; it's not "perfect information exchange", but it makes *enough sense* to understand.  Like when someone gives you a broken URL and you fix it, throw it in your browser and the page loads; you've employed Semantic interoperation.  Grats, brohan and/or broette.

Cross-domain interoperability - Interoperation of one or more people or organizations striving for a common goal.  I can only guess it's vaguely related to "ratification", where a group or movement is "unofficially" representing a given cause.  Like #KONY2012; that was some cross-domain interoperability.

There's a link to Unicode here; I've never really delved into the depths of its intricacies so this seems like a nice place to go.  I hope they're nice people.

- 1:19 PM - [Unicode](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Unicode) is an industry standard for consistent encoding, representation &amp; handling of text.  Exactly now Notepad only displays English-standard characters (A-Z, #'s &amp; special characters), Unicode supports funny stuff.  More than 110,000 characters, to be precise.  UTF-8 and UTF-16 (8-bit and 16-bit encoding) are the acceptable Unicode standards nowadays, which have superceded UCS-2.  UCS-2 used a 16-bit "code unit" (two 8-bit bytes, instead of the single 16-bit unit of UTF-16) which could not support the entire Unicode arsenal...which UTF-16 can cover by extending its ***interoperability*** to two 16-bit units (specifically 4 x 8bits) to support the additional Unicode characters.  And oh god I really hope I used interoperability correctly.  Snippet from the page: *"In August 1988, Joe Becker published a draft proposal ... [t]he name 'Unicode' is intended to suggest a unique, unified, universal encoding"*.

Neat little tidbit of info; unique, unified, universal.  Unicode.  Bears.  Funny fact: Joe Becker speaks "survival-level"  Mandarin Chinese, French, German, Japanese, and Russian.  Dwight ain't got shit on that.  There's really nothing that appeals to me on this page....I hovered over "8-bit bytes" because it's phonetically pleasing, and it's apparently an "octet".  Heh.  *click*

- 1:45 PM - An [Octet](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Octet_%28computing%29) is a unit of digital information consisting of 8 bits.  Your IP consists of four octets; 172.16.44.241 &lt;-- example quadro-octet.  Yes I just made that word up.  Snippet: *The term is often used when the term byte might be ambiguous, as historically there was no standard definition for the size of the byte.* Bytes have historically had no definition?! HOLD MY BITS, I'M GOIN' IN

- 1:48 PM - A [Byte](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Byte) is a unit of digital information etc etc we've been over this...that "*most commonly consists* of eight bits".  Whoa hold up, most commonly?  I thought 8 bits were **required** for it to technically be a Byte.  Interest sparked.  Apparently the de-facto standard of a Byte is 8 bits, because it's conveniently a power of 2 (computer's magical number).  One Octet unit specifically denotes a sequence of 8 bits; whereas [I'm guessing] a Byte can hold *up to* 8 bits.  So....this is kind of like having an 8-sheet folder; having 5 sheets in it is still technically a folder, but if you fill that folder, it is technically correct to call it a Binder.  I hope that makes sense to you lol.  A Byte is a Byte, as long as it has at least 2 bits in it...otherwise it's just a Bit :p.  I think I'm paraphrasing here.  Byte was officially coined by Werner Bucholz during early design for the IBM Stretch.  It is intentionally "misspelled" from *bite* to avoid any confusion from typos regarding "bit".  Fun fact here: the development of 8-bit processors popularized the 8-bit storage size, and the predecessor of the Intel 8086 (x86; aka Windows 32-bit), the Intel 8008 was one of the last microprocessors that could perform small-number operations...as I understand it.  I'm 40%~ sure that could possibly might probably be incorrect; but I'm not slowing down this knowledge train.

Brief pee &amp; coffee break.  Link to "Data Hierarchy"; sounds interesting.  Let's see who's the King and who's the Peasant.

- 2:10 PM The [Data Hierarchy](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Data_hierarchy) is basically each "level" of information.  A "Database" holds *all* the informations! --&gt; A "File" holds a collection of specific informations (a table of names &amp; addresses, per se), --&gt; a "Record" could be one line from the File; John Doe @ 123 Fake Str, --&gt; a "Field" would be John Doe, --&gt; "Byte" 0100 1010, the UTF-8 value for "J", --&gt; "Bit", the initial 0 value in the Byte value for aforementioned "J".  This is making way too much sense to me so clearly I must be confused.  [Image](http://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/en/thumb/f/fb/Data_Hierarchy_diagram_showing_Employee_database_example_by_JeffTan.gif/500px-Data_Hierarchy_diagram_showing_Employee_database_example_by_JeffTan.gif) of chart I'm referencing.

I'm sorry if this comment isn't as contextual or in-depth as the last one, I had to employ some crazy WPM and multitasking to handle Twitch chat (a full time job in and of itself, jebus), checking giveaway winner's credibility, etc etc.  I have excuses for days.

I thank all participants in the Wikipedia AdventureTime Challenge 2015, but sadly the aforementioned friend's stream activity is picking up, and I have some RL stuff to run around and do.  I wish I had more time to sit here and spelunk through the Wikipedia's (seriously this is fun), but my free time is nigh.  Thank you again to the Wikiwarrior that golded my last comment.  

*edit* brief overview: AES encryption &amp; its predecessor, cryptanalysis, Wireless security, interoperability, Unicode &amp; text standards, bits &amp; bytes and data structure.  Today we did some Wiki, and it was good.  I am very impressed with my ability to stay on-topic on Wiki.  This has never happened before.

*edit2* in case anyone's wondering; approx 15,000~ characters between these 2 comments.  OC, ARE YOU FUCKING SORRY??? I always thought WEP&gt;WPA so TIL!

Thanks, internet explorer!*

*The awesome human not the crappy browser.

 My laptop maxes out 68Mb through PIA What processor? Pfsense + PIA with killswitch. 

Works awesome...except the extra latency when playing games.  Then don't use the gaming ports over the VPN. How? I found an article with my Googlefu.

http://www.retropixels.org/blog/use-pfsense-to-selectively-route-through-a-vpn Have they fixed the WebRTC holes yet?  It kinda moots the point of having a VPN if the ISP/google/three-letter-agencies can just setup a STUN server to track you anyway. [deleted] So let's clear some things up first about WebRTC. For starters WebRTC leaks the private network IPs (your LAN address of this computer) and the IP of the VPN adapter. However only on Windows does it also expose the ISPs IP address. Mac and Linux do not leak your ISPs IP. AFAIK the reasoning for this is the way the route table works in Windows. If you modify the route table to route 100% everything through the VPN then WebRTC can no longer detect the ISPs IP. 

As far as disabling WebRTC goes it's a new feature and only some browsers support it. I don't think devs will ever fix it as from my understanding being able to determine the IP is one of the features of WebRTC necessary to make Web apps reliant on its other features work. The issue of it exposes ISPs IP isn't in the browser, it's in Windows. In Firefox it is very easy to disable WebRTC you can just go in about:config, in Chrome there was an addon to block WebRTC however it was quickly leaned that was easy to circumvent and so it's no longer effective and devs haven't updated it. As it stands Chrome for desktop you can not disable WebRTC. You can disable WebRTC in Chrome for Android using Chrome flags, the reasoning for this is on Android WebRTC isn't considered stable to chrome let's you disable it. Should be noted though that on Android it never exposes the ISPs IP to start with. 

The most effective way to block WebRTC is to take it up a set and make it so that your computer has no knowledge what so ever of your real IP. This is accomplished by running the VPN on your router with a failsafe. Then even in Windows an IP leak cannot occur and even malware wouldn't be able to find your real IP.  Explain?  http://torrentfreak.com/huge-security-flaw-leaks-vpn-users-real-ip-addresses-150130/ Can someone explain the benefits of using this? Currently when you visit a Website that site is capable of seeing your IP address (which is tied to your physical location and can be track to it with a reasonable amount of accuracy) and your ISP is capable of seeing what sites you visit. Now by using a VPN you create an encrypted tunnel to a remote server to funnel all your Internet traffic. So previously connecting to a website meant You &gt; Server. Using a VPN it goes You &gt; VPN &gt; Server. Now because it's encrypted your ISP can only tell that you are connecting to that VPN server, the bandwidth used, and that it is a VPN (if they even take notice). The ISP can no longer tell what websites you visit and what activity you are up to. So it strips the ISPs capability of monitoring you. Now also when you visit a website that website doesn't see your IP it sees that of your VPN. So now you can make any website think you are on the other end of the world and a website can no longer trace activity back to your approximate physical location as you have fooled them. You can do things like getting  around content restrictions this way as well. 

Edit: By being encrypted and the ISP not able to tell what info you are sending they also can't treat certain info different from others. This means no throttling. If your ISP for example says all traffic is fast except for Netlfix, we want that to lag. By using a VPN now as long as they don't also throttle the VPN (unlikely) then Netflix will no longer be throttled.  Just makes me tempted to setup some kind of bot farm that just searches for all things to do with dwarfs, follows all dwarf related ads\links and spends a large amount of time looking at pictures of Nicolas Cage.

If they want to collect this "useful information", lets make it super useful for them. Fun idea, but they still get the money from selling that info/the advertisers Marketing Board Room: "We'll make a fortune off of the Dwarves!" and a new trend of user activity has recently been noticed: a small but intensely focused group of users, possibly little people, who REALLY like Nicolas Cage. Let me introduce you to my good friend [Ad Nauseam](http://dhowe.github.io/AdNauseam). Not quite as tailored to dwarves and Nicholas Cage as you might like, but it will certainly screw with their data in the way you were hoping.  I like this but it doesn't go far enough. 

I want something I can put on a virtual machine, point it at something like buzzfeed where it then clicks everything while also actively searching for dwarfs and looking at nic cage images.

I want to flood a database with so much useless junk that it bankrupts them whoever is trying to track it.

If it could also sign up to all and any offers with a throw away email address too that'd be perfect. PIA, $3.33 a month! Love it.  How can you know that this VPN service doesn't do the same to your traffic? You have to do your research and trust the provider. And by research what do you mean exactly? You don't have access to its infrastructure, to the software they use, etc.  (I'm agreeing with you) You can only go based on what they publicly claim and other user reports, unfortunately. However, for general tracking purposes and such it's highly unlikely that a VPN service would do so, as they *do* need to be up front about it legally. Complying with gov't regulations/log keeping/etc. is much more of a risk.  Yes and no. VyperVPN for example was upfront about *not* leaking your data, then they turned around and handed it to the government. You really just need to look at the track record from a long term VPN client such as PIA and make sure they don't have any bad marks. They could very well turn around and fuck you over but that's a risk you have to take for privacy. Yeah but you have to presume the govt. might get their hands on it regardless, as long as the VPN and the fuckers at att don't get it, it's as good as you can reasonably hope for.  The bottom line is that with At&amp;t you know your data is being mined 100% of the time. But with a VPN its a 50/50 chance that its either being mined or not. 50/50. Because whenever there are two options, their probabilities are exactly equal. I don't care as much about the government getting it's hands on the info... Granted, I'm not a fan, but whatever. Its the unregulated natural monopoly charging 30 bucks to not do something unethical that pisses me off If you're paranoid you can rent a VPS with any number of suppliers and run a tiny linux installation on it just setup for VPN Will this make youtube stop choking on a dick every time i watch something It could. Some ISPs employ [traffic shaping](http://www.howtogeek.com/165481/how-to-test-if-your-isp-is-throttling-your-internet-connection/) to restrict the speed of specific types of data, sometimes streaming video. If youre wondering if this makes them giant cockbags, it does. That article mentions running frequent Speedtest test, but a lot of people have noticed ISPs like TWC leave Speedtest.net unthrottled so you think you're getting hot speeds, but then you do a real-life download and you never get near that.  &gt; If you opt-in to AT&amp;T Internet Preferences, AT&amp;T will still be able to collect and use your Web browsing information independent of those settings.

Can it really be called "opting in" if you're charged a fine to opt out? noo, no no no, see, they would NORMALLY charge you that extra $29, but the opt-in gives you a GREAT DISCOUNTED RATE for those upstanding citizens who don't have anything to hide... Which means that AT&amp;T costs $30 more for the exact same service as Google has. I checked--they offer gigabit in KC for $70/mo. Which is why AT&amp;T is completely retarded for doing this. Google fiber gives the same service without any strings. Why would you go with AT&amp;T now?  WAR IS PEACE

FREEDOM IS SLAVERY

IGNORANCE IS STRENGTH ALANIS MORISSETTE IS IRONIC Better start that doublethink if you want to make it man Chill your tits Satsuki Kiryuin. "Hello sir, this is John from AT&amp;T. Our data indicates you've been watching a lot of extreme pornography lately, and I know you'll be interested in our spousal privacy package. For only $29 per month we'll not tell your wife about your viewing habits." "John, I thank you for your call, and this is kinda awkward but...my wife is the one pulling this up for us to watch during our kinky bondage fuck time. While I appreciate your concern, I have to decline your offer. Thank you, and have a nice day."

Edit: Gold?! Holy shit! Thank you kind stranger! "One more moment, please. To improve child safety online we're blocking all pornographical content by default starting this April. Are you interested in opting out for $34.95 per month?" "Thank you for opting out of our child safety protection, you can now freely browse all pornographic content, an added bonus of this plan is that all advertisements now contain adult content. However, we noticed that you do indeed have children and to prevent an investigation with child protective services we have applied a mandatory service fee of $68.95 for developing consumer profiles of your childrens' browsing habits to block adult advertisements during their time browsing. One of the many ways that your ISP is always looking out for your best interests." I'm just amazed he hasn't pitched the $44.99 monthly history-reported-to-work opt out package yet. His employer has purchased the $6058.99 opt-out protection.  But the employee doesn't know that. AT&amp;T would of course love to double dip Dictionary of Numbers really comes through...

&gt;His employer has purchased the $6058.99 [ 2007 CEO hourly pay] opt-out protection. Stop giving them ideas.  You can opt-out of me giving AT&amp;T idea for a mere $20* a month with our new plan!

^^^^* ^^^^for ^^^^the ^^^^first ^^^^3 ^^^^months, ^^^^$89.99 ^^^^a ^^^^month ^^^^thereafter ^^^^in ^^^^perpetuity *pricing subject to change *pricing subject to perpetual changes will you guys stop giving them ideas please Goddammit AT&amp;T! Please continue, it sorta gets us going knowing someone is watching...  *tweaks nipples* http://i.imgur.com/e3nY9BF.gif With pliers "I'm happy to confirm that thanks to our Couples plan, if both spouses are enjoying the media downloaded through your account with us, we WON'T charge you twice. Your couples surcharge is only 50% plus. For maximum savings we recommend our Threesomes plan, where you are charged only twice for the pleasure of sharing your data with two more people" "Well sir, here's the thing... We also have installed, free of charge, which I just want to mention is an awesome deal... Our super secure security center in your home. We've noticed that your wife is watching this porn while you're at work with another man. Now, here's the good news! For just 15.99/month, we can provide you with the identity of the man, plus the footage, for this one time special promotional price." &gt;"... We've noticed that your wife is watching this porn while you're at work with another man. ..."

Well, I am at work with another man, so there is that.  "B..but.. I work with him.. I already know his name."

Sorry. I read it that way and I won't change how I feel about it.  Jokes on them, my wife watches porn with me! Wait, two of you are watching the stream but you're only paying for one connection? We're going to have to charge you a $350 set up fee and $35 per month for a shared connection(oh, and your probably going to experience greater latency, we've decided that since it's two peoples requests we should ignore half of the packets from your connection). Please drink verification can.  They spy on you even if you opt out and pay the $29.

"AT&amp;T may collect and use web browsing information for other purposes, as described in our Privacy Policy, even if you do not participate in the Internet Preferences program." Exactly another bs cash-grab.

This is why I support utility grade regulation. So, we have to pay extra to not be data mined.  Golly, that sounds fair and totally not an extortion deal. especially because they probably won't stop even if you pay See? It's not extortion, it's just a scam! We're being reasonable, America! I believe the term is "innovative free market solutions". Odds are this is how it will work if you decide to pay to opt out:

1. A simple flag is flipped on your account to make sure you're not served any custom ads.


2. They will continue to collect data on you but it will be considered anonymous user information based on the flipped flag above. So they will still be able to use/sell your information anonymously. This will all be hidden somewhere in the fine print of course. This will also give ATT the ability to start issuing custom ads immediately if you decide to stop paying the opt out fee. Why wait to collect data for the next couple months on this person when you could have the data standing by and have another person you can sell to advertisers.


3. Eventually they will patch this system down the line and break the flag on everyone who opted out. All of a sudden these people will be served ads based on their browsing habits despite opting out. Thus showing them that even when they paid to opt out they were still being data mined.

4. Outcry will occur because this is happening. ATT will say they fixed the problem and stopped data mining those people and it was simple oversight. Odds are they just fixed the flag and you're still being data mined.


 This is so horribly accurate.  Remind me about this in 2 years. Exactly! $30 more for a feature that I can't be guaranteed is actually being used properly on their side! This has bad written all over it.  What if they were too lazy to write any tracking software and they are just charging people for imaginary piece of mind?  That's brilliantly evil. With that clever streak, you could absolutely make it in management See, AT&amp;T isn't marketing this correctly (though to be fair people would have jumped on it no matter how they marketed it). They should not be advertising the 70 dollar price anywhere. Instead, that package should be sold at a $100 package. Then, they can give you the option of partially subsidizing your internet with advertising (the same way television works), which will give you $30 off your bill.

The end result is exactly the same, but it goes from paying them NOT to track you, to them paying you TO track you.  But then they can't advertise rates that are competitive with their competitors. "Competitors." /u/astroturfer says [here](https://www.reddit.com/r/technology/comments/2w2zwo/att_to_match_google_fiber_speeds_prices_in_kansas/conalnn)

&gt; AT&amp;amp;T may collect and use web browsing information for other purposes, as described in our Privacy Policy, even if you do not participate in the Internet Preferences program.
 Yeah, they should do what Google does, just mine your data and not give you an option to opt out. I could be wrong but I have opted out of many of Googles data mining endeavours. Although how can I be totally sure, don't know.  Oh please, you all already know that they're just going to track you and monitor all of that shit regardless of if you pay them extra or not. Exactly, at that point they just can't *sell* it &gt;they just can't *sell* it

.......for now.  When you switch to a different isp though?  Legal loophole, most likely.

*edit* isp Switch? To what? /u/astroturfer says [here](https://www.reddit.com/r/technology/comments/2w2zwo/att_to_match_google_fiber_speeds_prices_in_kansas/conalnn)

&gt; AT&amp;amp;T may collect and use web browsing information for other purposes, as described in our Privacy Policy, even if you do not participate in the Internet Preferences program.

 It sounds like they don't want to be considered a common carrier.  Since they are monitoring their network so closely,  maybe the FCC should crack down on them each time a user downloads infringing material.  I really don't see how they can get away with this and still retain safe harbor. Especially once they're put under title II. Can I get a ELI5 of this comment and the one above it? ATT is a post man opening your mail to add competitors ads.  But if ATT found something illegal and still delivered it, then ATT committed a crime.  If ATT never knew it was illegal, then ATT cannot be expected to deny a customer their mail. Great analogy, thanks for explaining! Also "AT&amp;T is also skim reading your mail, taking notes, comparing you to all their other customers, storing it all in a database, and selling the information to other corporations so they can add you to their database. As well, the NSA is looking over the shoulder of AT&amp;T and reading everything and recording it all".

Telling them you don't want them to do this will cost you $29/mo and they won't actually act any differently, except *possibly* keep your name out of it. However since recent research showed that with just a few search results or internet purchases its quite possible to identify you given previous data on the same, its all moot.  A long time ago we had the phone network.  Sometimes people used phones to do illegal things, like conspire to commit crimes.

The phone companies said "hey, we are just connecting anyone who wants to talk together, it's not like we're listening to them, we shouldn't be responsible if they commit any crimes".  Which seemed reasonable.  So a law got put together that said that a communication service that didn't monitor communications and allowed everyone to participate (that is, a "common carrier" who carries anyone's communications) wasn't responsible for the content of those communications.  This safety hatch is in "title 2" which is like a chapter heading of some book of laws.

But no such protection is provided in the case where communications are monitored.  If you have a company that listens to communications and people often commit crimes on your network, you could be responsible for those crimes as well.  AT&amp;T has clearly said they are listening, so the logic goes that they should be responsible for criminal activity (like copyright infringement) committed on their network. This is a really good explanation.  If ATT has knowledge of your browsing habits how can they say they aren't liable for any illegal activity done with their service? Currently I believe they can say they don't know but if they monitor everything that excuse doesn't work. At least that's what I think they mean. A vpn is much cheaper, and using this att service may only make you a bigger target for the NSA or FBI or whoever.  What is the best VPN?
 Email me any links you want to click on and I'll email you back the web page. This seems laborious but ok, thanks.  I work 10-2 Monday through Thursday with a 45 minute lunch and I'll get to everything in the order it's received. That's much quicker than my usual VPN guy, who requires that I hand write any URLs I wish to view and then fax them to him. What's your rate? Privateinternetaccess is pretty good and its only $40 a year Pay 29.99 to have them lie to you about tracking all your shit. The article States that this is only for its Google Fiber competitor, coming to Kansas City.   ATT only dropping prices/speeding up where there might be competition. Gotta love it. They must have cost/earnings close to Comcast. This is actually a pretty important caveat that most people won't realize because they didn't read the article. This feels like it shouldn't be legal, Sure sounds like extortion.  If the ISP monopoly is ever broken-up AT&amp;T, Comcast etc. are going to lose all their customers within a month. In Austin people are foaming at the mouth for Google Fiber because of this. I'm in the boat as well. Time Warner and AT&amp;T are garbage Ok, but it's not like Google isn't going to data mine your traffic for ads. It's kinda what they do. But at the least they aren't going to offer some bullshit package like this for extra cash and the speeds they'll be giving are so much better. 

And you can pay for a VPN anyways like others are saying.  It's frustrating that so many responses in here are simply, "Just get a VPN--problem solved." That's not solving the problem. The problem is that I shouldn't be forced to do that just to provide some basic privacy for myself.   How the hell is this even remotely legal and why hasn't the FCC bitchslapped ATT for doing this? How would you know for sure they aren't collecting it anyways? This just sounds like extortion This is extortion, with both outcomes involving all your data being collected. 

The $29 opt out fee is basically saying "Are you really dumb? Then pay us more money!" **AT&amp;T:** No no no no. See we actually charge you $29 less if you opt *in* to the program. It just so happens everyone is opted in by default. See how that works? :) http://i.imgur.com/8bwXv.gif Okay so this will most likely be buried because I'm too late to the post, but as someone who works in digital advertising here's my two cents.

Everyone as of late has applauded the FCC's announcement of their net neutrality guidelines but one glaring omission is the lack of information surrounding privacy, specifically how companies that operate on the web use, and will use personally identifiable information (PII) for targeted advertising.

The Internet Advertising Bureau (IAB) is the online advertising industry's version of the FCC and it exists for two reasons. The first is to provide clarity for advertising and technology companies in the face of ever changing advancements and technological capabilities while the second, and less publicized, is their focus on creating guidelines and rules of how personal data is used.

The second reason is what's important here as the industry as a whole, has pretty much embraced this form of self regulation to prevent government interference in a multi-billion dollar industry. That multi-billion dollar industry will also continue grow exponentially over the coming years. One example is that online advertising expenditure will surpass that of television advertising (approximately $75-85 billion per year) within the next two years.

What AT&amp;T has announced here is that instead of offering (free) opt-outs from behavioral and contextual targeting, or what the IAB has been pushing since the days of Myspace, they are giving a giant middle finger to not just those in my industry, but also the Feds who are looking for any reason to bring the hammer down. 

In fact, Verizon was sued just last week for their use of data for targeting users who had deleted their cookies or opted-out of advanced IP tracking ([here's a link, click it!](http://www.mediapost.com/publications/article/243540/verizon-turn-sued-over-tracking-technology.html#)) What AT&amp;T is proposing would potentially allow the same type of targeting.

This is why I'm going to go as far as saying that what the FCC proposed for net neutrality does not do enough, nor does it address what broadband providers are currently capable of, not to mention what they will eventually be able to do. Telecommunication companies need to be reeled in and classified as utilities to prevent your AT&amp;T's and Verizon's of the world from mining personal data for commercial gain without offering free opt-out capabilities and also keeping the web as it is.

Whether you choose to believe it or not, Google and Facebook have led the charge when it comes to protecting your personal information and data online. Say what you will when it comes to the reasoning behind this (public pressure vs. self regulation), but at least these companies offer you the ability to opt-out of online data mining for targeting online. Years from now it will come out that they were still collecting data from people who payed to opt out.  Also that they provided the government with a list of those people.  

Recent news items have turned me into the tinfoil hat wearing weirdo that I used to mock. If by "years from now" you mean "the fine print already admits that this is the case," then yes. Here's what will happen.  THe predictable internet outrage will happen.  The FCC will tell AT&amp;T to back the fuck off and make that a free service.  AT&amp;T will threaten to sue.  The FCC will offer a compromise that is still terrible for consumers, but slightly less so.  AT&amp;T will still threaten to sue, but will utlimately take the deal.

Consumers lose. The days are beginning to fade in my mind, the days when a company made a thing, the thing was theirs, so you gave them money for the thing, and then the thing was yours.  How is this not extortion? "I see your viewing habits... It would be a shame if ads started appearing, the police were to be called, or if that data got out somehow... But I can make it go away... For a fee." How the hell do AT&amp;T make any money? Why would anybody want to sign up to their service if they pull shit like this? You think the average joe knows? lol  Most just don't care. Why would they care about someone seeing them search "baby diapers". Not that big of a deal  The mentality "Well I am not doing anything bad so who cares if people are watching" It's called monopoly. AT&amp;T is the only option for a lot of people in many areas. Same issue with other ISPs, even outside of USA. Honestly, this is a bigger deal than net neutrality...they're not just slowing down the competitors, they're actively changing the information you receive to highlight it's ad partners.

Imagine taking a phone call and having to wait five seconds for it to connect while you get the "My money now" jingle. This kind of crap should be illegal.  Isn't this like, LITERALLY A protection racket? And later we'll find out that even if you opted out they're still tracking your shit due to some glitch in the system.  They'll probably just take your money and sell your information anyway. Just like they took tons of government money to build out their networks and just pocketed the money. Sign up now for our affordable plan "We won't go through your drawers" for only $19.99! where the fuck do we live? what year is it? is this america? 

we truly are no long free despite this charade the government and the uneducated put on.  So they are charging you $29 dollars a month to opt out of things that are probably already happening to you regardless?  We're gonna steal your shit and make you pay to get it back Civil rights up for auction. So long democracy and equal protection under law.  As an European resident, how the fuck aren't these companies still burned down to the ground? Their behavior is just shitty, they shouldn't be able to do as they please...

EDIT: Grammar. Because they spend millions upon millions of dollars lining the pockets of politicians at the local/state/federal level. The FCC's decision regarding Title II can't come fast enough. Wooooooooow thats some crazy shit!

Seriously, the FCC has taken some good steps, but this shit needs to be taken under control. 

This is blackmail. This is taking your information hostage. At worst, this is a lie. Because from what I understand that info can be legally taken requested anyway.  The FCC is headed by industry lobbyists. The FCC isn't going to do jack shit. If anything, they're going to help AT&amp;T out even more. 

This isn't some aberration to the plan. This is the plan. The corporatocracy is real.  Genuine question: doesn't google basically do this with your browser?  But you can choose a different browser. I'm locked into a contract with AT&amp;T it's a lot more difficult going to another carrier just to get away with this. It's also not what I signed up for. This has nothing to do with your cell phone plan or your home internet usage.  If you are under contract for Gigapower, then you are impacted.  If not, stop whining. How does this have nothing to with the phone or home internet?  Because it only applies to Gigapower, which does not affect your cell phone or their basic internet offering.

They are trying to compete with a Google offering for very high speed internet.  Google isn't going to give you a choice about selling your info.  AT&amp;T has simply offered to match the Google price, but they have to be able to sell your info (like Google does) to offer the same price.

AT&amp;T is offering you an out, but it will cost you more for the service since it is going to cost AT&amp;T on the advertising side of the business. That's what I was saying before. I'm locked into a contract with AT&amp;T while I don't have to use Google. You think their tracking ends with a phone line hooked to a computer? It does not. Why did you sign a contract then?  This is not something new. Paying to opt out is in fact new. I know. But you had no choice before and yet you still signed the contract. Now, you have a choice to pay a fee and opt out. If you don't want to pay it, nothing has changed for you. It has changed as they've taken further steps in solidifying their practices. This will make it more difficult for me to get what I need. 

You think a lot but you don't reason. This affects us all. I'm sorry someone pointing this out to you bothers you so much but you not being bothered bothers me much much more. So I'm going to say good night and good luck. Doesn't the NSA do this with everything? While I have no issue with this in principle since the business model has been established, the real concern is that there is no way to know if they are not tracking you. It would come down to trusting AT&amp;T and really, if you trust AT&amp;T then I would just consider the $29 an extreme stupidity tax. They will be tracking you regardless.   Seriously, there's nothing you americans can do about this? This is ridiculous, they're charging you money to keep your privacy intact? HOW IS THAT EVEN ALLOWED? Jesus Christ, that is mental. People with large corporations and lots of money have a bigger word than the common person; ie this redditor. Corporations are people in our country so they can donate to political campaigns, the FCC, and even charities for tax reductions.  A great number of the common persons of which you speak vote for the people who openly support companies over people. Because our choice (taking this from South Park) is a giant douche or a turd sandwich. Example is that i voted for Obama primarily so Palin wouldnt be the VP. You vote for one person hoping that they arent as big of a douche as the guy you dont want. But wait, the guy you were basically voting for just paid for a pipeline to alaska or places restrictions on what can be viewed in public.  Fuckin' lovely country we have here, where corporations are people who can exercise their free speech with money.  Im ok with the ceo taking his money and throwing it at a political campaign, just not the corporation. You're right though, it sucks I understand the common person can do very little, these things are out of their reach, but something should be done. It's hard to accept this even exists and people talk about it as a fact of life. You push someone hard enough and long enough, eventually they snap and bad things happen. (AKA, going postal).  When it comes down to a 2 party system you can vote for the giant douche or the turd sandwich. Honestly we need a reform and the Constitution actually allows the people to take a stand and say no, but money is involved now.  &gt; you americans

Every ISP on Earth does this. Yours does it too. 
 &gt; Seriously, there's nothing you americans can do about this? 

Literally the only choice AT&amp;T customers can make is to *move to a new area* where they can choose to get service from competitors.

That is, switch from AT&amp;T wireless to T-Mobile, Sprint or an MVNA (Verizon is arguably worse than AT&amp;T), and move to a location where an alternative to AT&amp;T Fiber or AT&amp;T DSL is available.

Most people aren't willing to go to these lengths, and AT&amp;T knows it. Wait, you're saying that if you live in a certain location you can only choose one carrier? Sorry if I sound dumb mate, but it's hard to understand how it all works over there. Generally speaking, most customers in the US have access to only one, *possibly, if they're lucky,* two DSL, Cable, and/or Fiber providers. (That is, one DSL and one Cable provider, but no fiber, for example.) Most cities even have a franchise agreement that makes it illegal to operate more than one cable provider in city limits.

Most cities also don't have access to VDSL service (50+mbps service), and instead only the much slower ADSL (&lt;15mbps) service is available, and even then, there's no guarantee it covers the entire city.

Fiber is rare (it's only offered in a few metropolitan areas) and generally expensive (with the notable exception of Verizon FiOS - which is slow - and Google Fiber - 1gbps symmetric - which are pretty cheap).

So more than half of Americans have access to only one Internet provider, if they have access to one at all, leaving only wireless service to fill in the gaps. Verizon and AT&amp;T own the vast majority of cellular towers, with T-Mobile, Sprint, and MVNOs leasing from them to get any reasonable level of coverage. *In many cases,* coverage is poor, and where there is good coverage, it's most often an AT&amp;T tower. So, AT&amp;T and Verizon hold nearly half of the market share for cellular service.

What that ends up meaning for the consumer is that if you want to switch from AT&amp;T or Verizon, and still get a reasonable level of service, it will *probably* mean packing up and moving. &gt; Literally the only choice AT&amp;T customers can make is to move to a new area where they can choose to get service from competitors.

That's a pretty broad statement.  Yes, yes it is. [deleted] Well, where I live now I can choose between two or three carriers and the same number of internet providers I guess. The service is certainly not as good as I wanted, could be a lot better. But what made me comment here is that in the US carriers are charging to not take your info and that I have never seen. From what others explained just now, these American companies are violating what I consider to be fundamental rights. You can't choose another carrier, you pay for privacy, that's coercion. Plain and simple. Dispersed, implicit, but it still is. Maybe I'm too naive, I know shitty companies are everywhere, but the American ones are really something else.  [deleted] Got it. I'm currently living in Brazil. I don't know if such things happen here, however, I do know the president complained about being spied on by the US in the past. I wouldn't be surprised if Brazilian carriers are doing the same as the American ones, only not telling the people or providing a good service.  We are angry as well, but the problem comes down to trade offs. I'm willing to get in bed with the devil (MediaCom) because I can get 50MB for 50$. No other ISP in my area comes close.  I would love to cut the cord, but Netflix....  &gt; Seriously, there's nothing you americans can do about this? This is ridiculous, they're charging you money to keep your privacy intact? HOW IS THAT EVEN ALLOWED? Jesus Christ, that is mental.

Actually, Americans just gave the people who support this stuff control of both houses of Congress. Murica! The march to fascism continues and the population has its head in the sand. And the ruling people have closed off all avenues of legitimate reform. Money is the only thing that talks, at this point. Meanwhile, our middle class is practically gone, they have no money. We are screwed, short of HUGE prolonged demonstrations.  What is even more awesome is when you opt-out and pay the money they do it anyways! 


MURCA fuck yea....... /sarcasm..... Americans basically get rammed up the ass by big corporations because the most they'll do about it, on a good day, is have a moan on reddit Just one more reason to use adblock and a vpn and for 25$ a week they will not steal your car and burn your house, for another 30$ they will give you back your dog

don't forget the special deluxe package offer starting next saturday, you wouldn't want to forget about it and wake up one day in a somalian ungerground slave market, would you?

ps: we know you don't have a working connection still, our expert was busy stealing from orphans but is now on the way  We should hire someone to stalk(not hurt) the CEO of AT&amp;T, his wife and his kids.

Video every second of their life. Every time they leave the house, video camera following them recording. 

And when they cry say, 'for $29.00/month we'll stop stalking you'.

This shit has to stop. 
 not as good a comparison How so? Monitoring the CEO of AT&amp;T with videocameras is no different than them monitoring what you do on the internet.

In fact, I would argue breaking in to the house of the CEO of AT&amp;T and monitoring them in their bedroom would be a more accurate comparison. Not suggesting anyone do that, because it's not ethical. Although ethics are something these companies know nothing about.
 I mean its public places and what not but theres harassment and reasonable suspension, fear of safety, idk seems like theres a better way What the fuck? You can't charge someone for wanting you to NOT provide a service. 30 dollars to turn something off. 

30 dollars. Because they are selling ALL of your info. So you are either paying them with your info being sold, or paying them for your information instead.

But whose to say they aren't selling it anyways? This should be the other way around.  If a company was making money on something that I was generating day in and day out i could sue them and win.  

We are all generating this 'data' that they are making millions off of and yet we get zero return for our investment.  I'm not a smart man but is what I'm saying making sense?

This should be customers offered $30 a month if they allow ATT to track/use their user data.  It's our data, our art, our works, our lives yet they are taking it all for free and making a profit off us.   Very well said.  Everyone is, by default, opted out of the program. If you opt in, you get a discount of $29 on your Bill.

So they hiked the price and offer a discount if you don't mind being, from how the Artical puts it, aggressively tracked. In a way, you get a lot of things for free because of this. I hear you can get free 5Mbps fiber connection if you live near a place they offer it (with setup fee, but still). They give you lots of free cloud storage, free email, basically the only search engine anyone uses anymore, and many other things. 

While you aren't collecting a check per say, you are getting benefits, you just might not see it clearly.  Well,  it kinda is like that.  If you don't let them use it,  you pay extra. By letting them use it,  you get paid in the form of money off your payment.  Haha how is that like the example I gave?  

So I steal a painting you just created and I send you a letter saying 'if you pay me $50 a month, i won't use your creation to generate money for myself.'

See the stark difference compared to how you presented it?  But thank you for joining in on the converstation, I'm not sure if what I'm thinking really makes sense so I want people to poke holes in it.  Might make me feel better. Doesn't Google already do this? Yes. But reddit loves google. Google's search page works like this. It builds a profile of you. The Chrome browser everyone loves sends everything you do in the browser back to Google. EVERYTHING. 

Facebook works like this. If you have a facebook account, even if you are logged out of facebook, and you travel around to anything that has a "share on facebook" button, facebook knows you went there and that it was you that did it.

All ISP's do this, and they always have. They all have logs of everything we do unless we encrypt those communications. 

Hardware does it as well. Your iPhone tells Apple every character you type and everything you do on it. 

A few choice subpeonas and I can get you complete internet, phone, text - all of it - from every service you use. 

Because all computing systems have logs, and those logs are very, very complete, and are usually backed up for decades. 

If you ever hope to run for office, do not use the internet at all. 
 No, Google Fiber doesnt do that. Google only tracks you on their own web services (just like everyone else). AT&amp;T is tracking everything. What a spectacularly dumb move, given that people can opt out *without* paying the $29 -- by simply opting out of AT&amp;T altogether and going to Google Fiber.

Which moron at AT&amp;T came up with this strategy? *"We finally offer a decent internet package that's actually appealing to consumers, so let's make sure to attach absurd terms and extra costs to encourage people to avoid it."*

Even with Google's $300 up-front construction fee you'd still break even within a year. &gt; by simply opting out of AT&amp;T altogether and going to Google Fiber.

Which also tracks every single thing you do and serves ads to you via chrome and their search engine... plus also facebook tracking you.

TL;DR: Wake up. There is no alternative to being tracked and having your profile built online.
 Aww, hell no. There SHOULD be a law against this but unfortunately our govt is bought and paid for by these corporate "people". This should be illegal.  It wouldn't surprise me if it actually is, but the only way to get the government to even bother looking into it is to sue AT&amp;T and hope the Judge is on your side. But corporations own our government and write our laws, so it's not. They can do as they please while the 99% of us get fucked at every turn.  So people in Kansas City can get free 5 Mbps internet for free from Google and here in KY I am paying $34 a month for 3 Mbps? WTF? Does anyone seriously believe they aren't tracking you even if you pay to opt out? I'm sure some idiots do, AT&amp;T probably did market research before offering this plan This doesn't affect me at all, but all I can think of when I read this is I hope you go fucking broke, your business fails and you have to beg customers that you've treated with such disrespect to please come back. Honestly, you are a fucking piece of shit filled cunt, AT&amp;T. What a shitty company. &gt;What are you talking about, profits are at record highs so clearly they are good! What is this "morals" and "human decency" you speak of? AT&amp;T, you're partly responsible for pushing HTTPS to become mainstream. Thanks for the push, and fuck you for your package. I think Lenovo's response to this has been *almost* as bad as the original problem, and I didn't think that was even possible. What? You didn't want to be spied on? Well their consumer poll group said different... Wow, who would have known. 

I was about to buy a new y50 too.  Fuck that now.  Given all the bullshit of PC manufacturers I think Microsoft should have some kind of prompt when you boot a new machine to just completely reinstall stock Windows whenever its an OEM machine shipped version. I don't know how much of a dent that would make with the average consumer, but would at least give some of the clueless population a fighting chance. Never happening.  OEMs cut deals with software vendors to include their shitware on new machines.  Microsoft would destroy that business model if they did that. Why the hell should MS care?  They've got a pretty solid hold over market share.  Say they told Lenovo to fuck off and that they were no longer authorized to sell Windows machines.  That would potentially put Lenovo out of the PC business, and other manufacturers would pick up the slack for MS.

Edit: I meant that MS has no reason to care about lenovo's side businesses, especially if they're fucking up the windows platform. 

To everybody yelling anti trust, can MS really be *forced* into doing business with Lenovo?  They care a lot. The average consumer isn't going to consider what Lenovo, HP, or Dell installed as "extras", they just chalk it up to a bad experience with Windows. When the main competition on the consumer end is Apple (who obviously doesn't install bloatware), Microsoft doesn't want to look bad just because someone else messed up their perfectly good OS. 

All the PC's sold in a Microsoft Store are "Signature Edition", meaning they are a very clean and optimized OS. If you actually look at the boxes, many have a signature edition sticker over the manufacturer seal, because they were already opened and re-imaged with the "clean" OS.

Disclaimer: I work for Microsoft. And they just had the Defender team doing a low key AMA about how Defender now removes superfish and the root cert and treats it as malware.
I'm also MSFT I'm pretty sure you misunderstood /u/sealfloss' post.

I think he was trying to say, "Why the hell should MS care [if they destroy the deals OEMs cut with software vendors to include their shitware on new machines]?"

***

Edit: BTW, I really like my Surface Pro2! I wanted one badly enough to import it from the US so I could get a US keyboard and English Win8 standard. I wish you guys made it easier to buy various keyboard throughout the world. Came here to say this. Microsoft might not be the powerhouse they were in the 90s. But lenovo business is highly dependent on Microsoft, the majority of their product lines are aimed toward businesses where Linux desktops don't fly (thinkpads and the desktop ones).  Most linuxer buy Lenovo Thinkpad for their very good linux compatibility. Everyone on the linux reddit is shitting on them right now. 

Now... will they stop buying it? Don't know.

-Send from my thinkpad. I said most. I'm aware powerusers like Lenovos for their Linux compatibility. However it's probably a small percentage of Lenovo's business. 

I know for sure many agencies, companies, states, etc just buy desktops/laptops in bulk from Lenovo to use as Windows machine. That's their multimillion dollar business.  Microsoft paid millions (maybe billions) as a result of antitrust suits from OEMs for trying to do just this. The government prevents Microsoft from forcing manufacturers to use a "pure" install. This was with the full support of consumers and tech writers who saw Microsoft as the bad guys (which was probably true at the time). Unintended consequences. Microsoft got hit with antitrust suits when they tried before  It's already been happening for years: Microsoft signature editions. Microsoft wants to destroy that business model. See: Surface. No.
MS makes a fortune from OEMS.
Surface exists to raise the bar and give the OEMs a reason to make nicer hardware that isn't Mary plastic boxes covered in stickers and stuffed full of crapware. You just explained the very reason why I am considering a Surface right now. I was warry with the 1 and 2, but with the 3rd Surface Pro, I'm confident that given enough time, MS can overtake their OEMS.

I believe the whole Surface play was a win-win for them. Either OEM's start producing better hardware, or they get an easy entrance into the PC market. So far it seems to have been the latter. You can buy laptops from MS's website without the bloatware. They actually have good prices. I'm always the go-to in the family when someone needs a computer. The first thing I do whenever anyone buys a store model is to reformat with a clean windows install. This would be a godsend.  And then to get components to work, you'll still have to install the laptop's drivers that come with bloatware Just buy computers from the Microsoft store. They come with a clean OS Yep, that what "Signature Edition" means. You can already get PC's with barebones stock Windows installed.  They cost more money.  Sometimes, the *only* profit an OEM makes on the computer is the money they get from these companies.  PC manufacturing's race-to-the-bottom has created this industry. Windows 8 and 10 both have really easy ways to reset Windows to stock Windows without any bloatware. It's like 4 mouse clicks through the PC Settings apps. 

**edit** since people are asking:

[Here's the steps on my Windows 10 computer](http://i.imgur.com/L607Ve4.png) with PC settings pinned to the taskbar.

But an easier, almost instantaneous way, is to press the start button and start typing "remove everything and reinstall Windows". This should open up the exact PC setting that you want on Windows 8 and Windows 10. Unfortunately, the Reset function generally uses the onboard recovery partition which has all the bloatware pre-imaged. A Reset simply takes it back to it's initial out-of-box state which includes the bloatware.

This isn't true 100% of the time, but its generally what happens :/ Can confirm. Have my "Dell System Center" or what not after resetting my laptop. Seems reasonable - I always wipe whatever machine I receive.

It's trivial to install a fresh copy of linux on a laptop, why should it be sufficiently difficult with Microsoft that most of its users are living with OEM-installed spyware? I was getting ready to buy one next week :/ Now I gotta find something else in that price range, the y50 seemed like a really good value. It seems as though they literally didn't know what the software did.  Which is kind of amazing in and of itself. 

I mean think about it - Iran hacked into a dutch cert authority in order to steal private keys and issue forged certs.  

Think about how easy it would be for someone like Iran or China to scam a laptop maker into adding rootkits to their devices _without even realizing it_.  

Even **without** the bad cert, the software sounds like seriously annoying crap that no user would want anyway. I feel like a lot of big companies in tech totally take advantage of n00b users instead of trying to protect them.  &gt; Think about how easy it would be for someone like Iran or China

Think? What's to think? Lenovo is Chinese. They just did it. Lenovo - Just do it They blamed the consumers for not finding the feature useful.  This is not true. Lenovo didn't blame consumers at all. Lenovo takes customers' concerns very seriously and has disabled Superfish temporarily as a direct result of customer feedback. We are working to make modifications to the software to better enhance your shopping experience.

\- Hugh Jass,  
Lenovo Public Relations Department I am serious. I was just about to purchase a Z50-70 next weekend as my PC is dying on me.

But in light of this event, I am no longer buying a Lenovo product. The fact is, I used to love my previous Lenovo laptop.

Not anymore I guess. It's a pity Lenovo did this to it's customers. I still wouldn't get it even if you format and re-install. I had to return my y50-70 because the color accuracy was so abysmal. At first I thought it was just a bad screen, but after going through the ranks in lenovo support they first denied it, then called me back the next day saying "Yeah, we totally skimped on the screen. We'll replace it, but it'll come back with the same problem." I even offered to pay to have it replaced with a better screen but they said this was impossible.

Doesn't really inspire too much consumer confidence in Lenovo. Now with the Superfish too, it'll be a long time before I ever consider buying from them again.  Aka "sorry I got caught"  *"We have thoroughly investigated this technology and do not find any evidence to substantiate security concerns."*

This single line in their reply is quite possibly the best reason to never buy a single one of their products ever again.

I simply can't wrap my head around this line and there are only two possible explanations for it: Lenovo as a company is either inexplicably, hopelessly incompetent or they are brazen, malevolent liars. And I don't want to trust my personal data to either group, ever. Anybody remember: "Oh, you became deathly ill through no fault of your own on one of our cruises? Here's a coupon for a discount on your next cruise." This needs to be a crime.. not just something they can apologize and walk away from.  Lenovo sold its customers a product that (arguably) illegally wiretapped the communications with their *bank*. 

If you or I did that this would be a crime.  There needs to be some basic protection here. You install such a certificate on somebody else's computer:  guilty of illegal intrusion, wiretapping, 20 years hard time.  Corporation does it:  oops, my bad.  Here's a coupon for 20 cents off a small latte at Starbucks, first fill these forms out, get them notarized and approved by a judge, and wait three years. When nsa does it,  it's for national security.  I can't believe the media is describing the NSA/gchq sim hack as "possibly illegal" Everything that nazis did was legal.  When you write the laws, you write your guilt out of them. Law writing 101. When nsa does it,  it's for "national security". Ftfy Lets call it what it really is: Corporate espionage.
Fun reading: https://firstlook.org/theintercept/2015/02/19/great-sim-heist/ Wasn't there also an HDD BIOS malware distributed by the NSA that came out recently?  Targeting Seagate, Samsung etc?

Good lord it's impossible to keep track.   DietyBounce
[http://resources.infosecinstitute.com/nsa-bios-backdoor-god-mode-malware-deitybounce/](http://resources.infosecinstitute.com/nsa-bios-backdoor-god-mode-malware-deitybounce/) It wasn't fun :( We have truly lost control of the military industrial and intelligence industries (and they are now industries), if we ever had it in the first place. Ike called it, but no one paid heed to his seasoned words. Corporations are people too.  Except since money is free speech, they get much more free speech than any other person ever gets to have, which includes paying lobbyists to bribe politicians. Except Corporations never get jail time like people.  Corporations used to be considered "people" in an extremely limited, logical way.  They could sign contracts, you could sue them, etc.  The idea that this means they deserve free speech is ludicrous.  The courts should be able to temporarily suspend their ability to sell goods or provide services (at least their profitable ones; Customer Support could probably still continue working) for some time. Hurt them right where it makes them suffer the most.

Make them unable to make money, *while enforcing mandatory compensation for every employee who is not found guilty during the investigation,* and watch as companies get their shit together to make sure they don't have to sit on their ass for a whole year while their assets drain away.

It's a free market, but if you don't follow the rules, you don't get to compete. Corporations are people. They have political opinions, vote accordingly, donate to campaigns, and are members of church congregations.

They have all the benefits to act, yet receive none of the consequences of those actions.

And until Americans decide that this is a hijacking of what freedom is and to end it, this is the law and they need to suck it up. I'll believe that corporations are people when Texas sentences a disabled one to death. Or when a cop shoots one for having an imagined firearm in its' possession!  File cases in consumer court, death by a thousand cuts Or better yet file cases with the FTC here: 

https://www.ftccomplaintassistant.gov/#crnt

The more they hear from angry people the more likely they'll be up Lenovo's ass. And no corporation wants the feds up their ass. Did it, you guys reading this should too. Took me all of 2 minutes. LURKERS UNITE! Purchased a Y50-70 back in September. Just filed my complaint. Thanks. I was about to buy one of those computers.

Thank fuck I didn't. And in other countries. For example if you're in the UK:

http://www.tradingstandards.gov.uk/home.cfm That pretty quickly becomes an annoying class action instead of death by a thousand cuts. hmm  AFAIK where I live we dont have a class action option, but would a case filed by you get invalidated if someone files a class action? I wish we could sue the NSA for this Why can't you?  Police Departments get sued all the time.  
 Maybe one day you go to sleep. 
Maybe the next day you wake up in a dark room in Guantanamo.  Did Sony suffer anything but temporary bad press for the rootkit fiasco? http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sony_BMG_copy_protection_rootkit_scandal#Legal_and_financial_problems

&gt; Sony lost the battle with Abbott and had to pay $750,000 in legal fees to Texas, accept customer returns of affected CDs, place a conspicuous detailed notice on their homepage and make "keyword buys" to alert consumers by advertising with Google, Yahoo! and MSN, pay up to $150 per damaged computer, and much more. Sony BMG also had to agree that they would not make any claim that the legal settlement in any way constitutes the approval of the court. [34] So....no real punishment then - no execs in jail, no financial penatly large enough to really affect the bottom line.

Seriously, if the bigwigs want the big pay-checks for taking the "big risks", then time they faced some actual risk. &gt; no financial penatly large enough to really affect the bottom line.

They had to pay $150 for every computer that was damaged and accept returns. I don't know what they actually ended up paying, but that's potentially a crapload of money. Considering you or I would potentially pay up to $ 150*,000* in damages for wilfully pirating a *single song*, no, I don't think it's a "crapload" of money.
 They recalled some of the CDs, and I think there were a few settlements, but overall they didn't really suffer that much. And most people have simply forgotten about it. Shame.  Not by me: Sony products have been dead to me ever since. Shame because their $15k range projectors are basically unmatched.  Well, I should have clarified. Most people outside of the IT world have forgotten. 

After watching how Sony handled the rootkit thing and then when they decided to pull Linux installations from the PS3 even though they originally advertised it as a feature for the console, I vowed they'd never get another dollar from me if I could help it. But even when I try to explain how predatory Sony's been in the past, people they look at me like I'm crazy. 

I guess the PS4 has bought them some goodwill.  Fun fact: Sony pulling Linux support for the PS3 directly led to the PSN hack - nobody bothered to root the PS3 as long as it had Linux, but when they pulled Linux support people started looking for ways in. 

It just so happened that when they found a way to root PS3s, they also found a way to [gain trusted access to the PSN on hacked consoles](http://www.extremetech.com/gaming/84218-how-the-playstation-network-was-hacked), and from there things only got worse for Sony.  Yeah - I don't see why corporations are allowed to get away with major hacking like this - look at the Sony Rootkit.  

"It was a mistake and I was just trying to make some money!" doesn't seem like it should be an excuse.  "Nothing is illegal if a hundred businessmen decide to do it."  - Andrew Young Corporation
n. An ingenious device for obtaining individual profit without individual responsibility.

Devil's Dictionary, Ambrose Bierce.  1906 Wouldn't this also violate medical privacy laws as well? Since a lot of hospitals and doctors allow you to view records online now? Created my username almost 3 years ago, not disappointed. Your time has come my son! Rise, rise and show them the way to eternal life.  The prophecy has revealed itself! So as someone with a Lenovo laptop who knows very little about technology (that article is basically gibberish to me) do I need to like.......do something? I keep seeing these articles about Lenovo selling messed up laptops with no security but I don't know if there is a solution of if I just need to live in fear. EDIT:  Click [this link](https://canibesuperphished.com/) first.  If it comes up with some sort of scary-looking "this connection is untrusted!" warning thing, you're in the clear.  It's sort of counterintuitive that a warning thing is *good,* but in this case it means that your browser is still asking that website to make sure it is who it says it is, not using Superfish's pre-signed hall pass.

I don't have a windows machine next to me at the moment, but if you grok [windows defender](http://www.theverge.com/2015/2/20/8077033/superfish-fix-microsoft-windows-defender), I'd go with: "make sure that's updated and have it run a scan."

EDIT_2: [Guide for getting rid of Superfish and removing its certificate](https://filippo.io/Badfish/removing.html) because I still can't personally tell if Windows Defender is doing it. He says he's no techie and you use the word grok? I am a techie and been farting around with computers for the last 20 years and I would have had to google grok. Thanks for that link. I'm in the "clear", but I'm going to run more tests. As an owner of a Lenova gaming laptop, bought in Jan '14, I don't think there will be a next Lenova when this one  tires out. 

edit/add; It's a shame too. I bought this laptop off the specs, but mostly because of the kick ass lighted keyboard that I actually need to function. Yup, Lenovo was one of the computer brands I trusted, welp I guess a custom-pc is my next one. I bought my first solid PC ever last christmas. A Lenovo Y510P laptop that has served me well, playing video games and doing other fun stuff. This was my entry into the "pc gaming" world. It's been really fun! 
  
I'm pissed off I even had to be worried about a product I paid good money for. My PC doesn't seem to be infected, but I will never purchase Lenovo again. And if I ever buy another PC for gaming, I intend to forego any vendors like this and just build my own or buy from the microsoft store. 
  
 Don't forget that you can build one, and not have to worry about any of this crap at all. Not to mention you can make it how you want for cheaper.

Of course, if you have the laptop for the portability, I'll just shut up  You can also get custom built laptops. I ordered mine from eurocom. They basically buy clevo cases and put whichever parts you want inside of it. I agree. Hit them where it hurts and that will be a bigger punishment than a fine. I got my Lenovo almost 4 years ago and I passed the link test so I assume I'm in the clear (not techy enough to do anything else really). But it still sucks because I absolutely love the Lenovo I have now and would've liked to stick with the company when the time came to get a new computer.  You can check whether you were effected by using [this page](https://filippo.io/Badfish/). Well, as a general rule, some manufacturer's devices that come with Operating-systems pre-installed have these kinds of bloatware and even spyware. Lenovo just went a bit too far with the SuperFish which creates some security holes in your browser.

You see, the OS that these device manufactures use (be it Windows-8, Android or anything else) isn't the pure version, but they bloat it with their own software before selling it to you. This is one of the reasons, I almost always format a laptop and install the OS from scratch.

In any case, here is the [link](http://www.slate.com/blogs/future_tense/2015/02/20/how_to_remove_superfish_adware_from_lenovo_laptops.html) that details the various models that might have been installed with the SuperFish bug and removal instructions. This isn't just a consumer betrayal, this is a betrayal of all the loyal resellers (like my small local company) who touted their machines as the best and resold them to their customers. We didn't sell any affected machines (we only sell their desktops, ThinkServers and ThinkPads) but the average user sees that Lenovo branding on their machine we sold them and rightfully gets worried or upset. This creates a huge headache for us and all others who promoted and sold their machines and now have to possibly deal with returns through no fault of our own and take measures to reassure our clients that they are not affected. It really, really stings. Well just trashtalk their products forever after this. Non-tech-savvy consumers look to you for information. "what computer is good? None. All are shit. Thing is, what *kind* of shit are you accustomed to and/or willing to endure?"

Computers, like smartphones are "technology". Would you call a pillow "technology"? Would you call a simple landline phone "technology"? They just work. We call stuff "technology" *because you can't depend on them to fucking work* &gt;"what computer is good? None. All are shit. Thing is, what *kind* of shit are you accustomed to and/or willing to endure?"

A computer that doesn't basically transmit everything I am doing to hackers because of malware installed by the manufacturer?

 The middle man is yet another victim of the man-in-the-middle attack. But read their press release, they said they installed this adware to improve the user experience.

But they're very sorry.

All better now? No doubt - I've been touting Lenovo for years as the best on the market.  I have 12,000 users that are using Lenovo devices, and a lot of that reason is based on my recommendation (I spec out our machines, build the images, etc. )  I think a nice email to the organization referencing this issue with Lenovo may be in order.   Yeah Lenovo made its name as the most reliable *business* laptop. And what do business people care about more than anything else? Security. I don't think my company will ever buy anything from Lenovo again. Superfish was never included with the Think products?  Do you know of a source for this information? Lenovo's website:

http://support.lenovo.com/us/en/product_security/superfish?IPromoID=LEN783020

&gt;This advisory only applies to Lenovo Notebook products. 

&gt;(ThinkPad, ThinkCentre, Lenovo Desktop, ThinkStation, ThinkServer and System x products are not impacted.) Oh come on people. You consented to this when you clicked "I Agree".

It was clearly stated in the user agreement on page 78, paragraph 3 of subsection 5e, in the supplemental addendum revision 44, which was available by notarized written request submitted in person to the ~~tax haven~~ customer relations office in outer Mongolia. 
 I was under the impression that often laws were written to make it illegal to sneak shit like that directly in to a terms and services, which is why stuff like java updates don't bury the ask toolbar installation questions inside their ToS statements... Only in Europe. Now if you'll just place your lips against this mans asshole... Sony installing spyware on people's computers.
Bayer knowingly selling HIV tainted medicines.
Tobacco companies advertising cigarettes as healthy.
   It's almost as if we shouldn't let multinational corporations write our legislation or become too large to punish. The tobacco companies got punished, at least domestically. Having to spend large portions of their revenue in anti-tobacco marketing is pretty harsh punishment. Not that they don't deserve it. http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tobacco_Master_Settlement_Agreement

"In the MSA, the original participating manufacturers (OPM) agreed to pay a minimum of $206 billion over the first twenty-five years of the agreement." 

Almost a quarter of a trillion dollars is no slap on the wrist. Although it did mostly exempt them from individual lawsuits for smoking related illnesses.  Nope, the tobacco companies basically wrote the settlement agreement themselves. In fact, tobacco company revenues AND profits both increased following the settlement. In a competitive environment, price is based on marginal cost, which the tax effectively  increased. Therefore, the impact of the settlement was passed through to consumers. [This](http://www.ftc.gov/sites/default/files/documents/reports/competition-and-financial-impact-proposed-tobacco-industry-settlement/ndoc95_0.pdf) goes through the analysis where it was deemed OK, but it was pretty iffy. Did you watch the Last Week Tonight video? They're making a killing (in more ways than one) selling to *children* in poor third world countries. They threatened to sue a country with a smaller GDP than their profit last year. As I said... punished domestically. They wedged themselves into emerging markets with free trade agreements. Unfortunately the US has no authority to punish multinational corporations for their actions in foreign countries. A $200 billion fine for what they did in the US is not insignificant though. C level executives now have to wipe their poor asses with $50 bills instead of $100... "Bayer knowingly selling HIV tainted medicines."

Is this true? [yes](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Contaminated_haemophilia_blood_products) Nestl anything. Monsanto everything. 

Edit: I'm getting some serious pro-Monsanto opposition,  which I would never expect. Interesting.  The deal with Nestle killing Indian babies... I removed the Superfish process which also issued my SSL certificates. I now can't visit any websites since I no longer have a certificate. Any suggestions?

EDIT: the restart fixed it. I should've tried the ole "turning it off and turning it on again". Thanks for the constructive suggestions instead of the "you're an idiot for buying that OS", "only a moron. . . ", etc opinions that were not helpful in any way. Use Firefox for a quick fix, it uses it's own certificates so isn't impacted by deleting the Superfish certificate. How do you get firefox if you can't get to any websites? You could try downloading it from their ftp://ftp.mozilla.org/pub/mozilla.org/firefox/releases/latest/win32/en-US/ Are we answering our own questions now? Yes. Try speaking in nothing but rhetorical question-answer statements for a week.  Will you infuriate all of your friends?  Absolutely! Isn't this surprisingly fun? Sure is! Hey, is sometimes answering our own questions helpful? Absolutely.  Windows Defender is supposed to be capable of removing superfish now.

edit: 

[Trojan:Win32/Superfish.A](http://www.microsoft.com/security/portal/threat/encyclopedia/Entry.aspx?Name=Trojan%3AWin32%2FSuperfish.A) When you "removed the process" did you actually uninstall the program?

Because it sounds like it's still trying to proxy your internet connection.  Which would mean it still exists in some capacity.

It's called VisualDiscovery when you look for the actual application under Add or Remove programs. That was some of the most shady bloatware I've ever seen on a laptop I worked on. It actually set up an internet proxy to relay all communications through their servers. 

You need to go to your internet settings within control panel in order to ensure there are no proxy settings.  Reformat with a non-bundle disk. ...and as the article says, change all your passwords.

edit: after you remove it of course. I have heard that Windows Defender is now capable of completely removing Superfish from IE and Chrome, but they are still working on the fix for FireFox. I have also heard from the company I work for that Lenovo will be releasing their own fix shortly. Hopefully those methods will work, but the only sure fire way would be a nuke and fresh install from a clean source. IIRC, you can create Recovery Media for Windows 8 from File History, just make sure you uncheck the box that says "include OEM partition." This should give you a clean install of Windows 8 without the bloatware/malware. You'll likely have to manually install some drivers. &gt; Lenovo will be releasing their own fix shortly

Thanks but no thanks Lenovo. How about a new slogan?


---lines----

crossing any for one more penny END OF LINE

\----------------------------------------------------------------------------

Line ends here PERIOD. DOT COM!!! At our office we started calling them LeNoGo's As someone who was infected I'm pretty freaking pissed off. Don't know what I should do tho. Already took care of the issue. Feel like a rebate is in order.  I submitted a complaint with the FTC, I also called Lenovo at 855-253-6686. Not even a month after I bought my laptop my credit card number was stolen. There's no way I can prove it was because of this but I've never had my credit card info stolen before. When I called Lenovo I told them that my computer was vulnerable to this and that my credit card info was stolen, I said I wanted a full refund. They opened a case with their customer advocacy department, they said I'd hear back on Monday. Lawyer here, but not legal advice:

Was your card "general use" or did you mostly use it online/on your computer? If you don't get an acceptable response from Lenovo, I'd strongly consider talking to a lawyer if you're so inclined. Several law firms out there are investigating this case. No expertise at all here:

I'm not sure what you are basing this advice on. The consumer is almost never held responsible for damages from credit card theft, and so has little to recover in a lawsuit (other than for inconvenience, which will get them nothing).

Unless they contact a law firm that is already working to build a class-action case, I don't see how contacting a lawyer would be of any help.

Also, initial costs for hiring a lawyer are usually several hundred dollars at minimum, often over $1000.

Contacting your state's attorney general's office would be better in my opinion. Here's a good place to start:

[FTC Consumer Complaints](https://www.ftccomplaintassistant.gov/#crnt) &gt; Feel like a rebate is in order.

If this had been a person, they'd got to prison for a very long time for doing this to you.

Sue these mutherfuckers. It seems like the problem is that if you ever used your laptop on public wifi your identity, passwords, bank details, etc may have been stolen. 

Lenovo probably needs to offer free credit monitoring and identity theft insurance to all affected customers like target/Home Depot/etc have done.  Press criminal hacking and espionage charges against Lenovo. That's what would happen if it was you that installed this. Damn. Lenovo used to be my favourite company. Yeah, I recommended their higher end products to people who wanted more than cheap "good enough" laptop. Never again. This company is dead to me. And what's really bad for them - I'm pretty sure this is most of their market. By pulling shit like this with an informed consumer base, you're basically fucking yourself in the ass. It's worse than that. Lenovo sells shitloads of computers to corporate customers who's IT managers have definitely taken notice of this. It barely matters that those computers probably weren't infected, since they have corporate disk images. The fact is, Lenovo just lost the goodwill of the nerd community that makes those decisions.  I happened upon the Lenovo Y510P as my first gaming PC a little more than a year ago. It was my choice after digging through a lot of options on forums and retail websites. It seemed like the best bang for my buck, and it was recommended by people who seemed like they knew what was up. So far it's served me so well! It's played all the games I've wanted to play, and might I mention I fucking love the beautiful, luminous red keyboard that guides me so well in the night. It's aesthetically beautiful and awesomely functional and makes me look like I'm a computer wizard to my niece and nephew lol.
  
I would've purchased another Lenovo next time around for sure. Everything's been perfect. Except this shitshow. This Superfish BS undermined all of the good faith that Lenovo built up being my first gaming PC. Why you do this Lenovo? Never again. I love(d) Lenovo and vow(ed) to always buy their laptops, because they were always great to me. 

This is one of those "I'm not angry, I'm disappointed" moments. I'm actually sad about this.

It's not on my laptop, but even so, this is fucked.  The worst consumer betrayals end up with people dead, I'm not sure this makes the list. This is Sony rootkit level shitty. Yeah, I would say the cigarette companies who were the first to know that they caused lung cancer but had that suppressed.... That would edge this out.

Let's say the most evil thing a tech company has done to its customers. Except comcast of course... tobacco companies killed people

dealing with comcast makes people wish they were dead. Sounds like a merger waiting to happen. [deleted] Comcasto delenda est &gt; Yeah, I would say the cigarette companies who were the first to know that they caused lung cancer but had that suppressed.... That would edge this out.

Not that I like defending cigarette companies, but to the best of my knowledge that's not quite how things went down. It was publicly known for some time that there was a *correlation* between smoking and developing lung cancer, but due to the nature of the situation (it takes a very long time for effects to show, and as such it would be very difficult to actually do a scientifically valid experiment on human subjects with things like a control group and a sufficient number of data points) it was damn near impossible to actually prove *causation*. The argument cigarette companies made was that, for all we knew, it was equally possible that lung cancer actually caused smoking; I believe the argument went that lung cancer can make your lungs feel "itchy", similar to the desire to smoke a cigarette, and thus someone who already has the earliest stages of lung cancer might be more likely to become a regular smoker. AFAIK the cigarette companies were never actually able to suppress any scientific data, they simply hired statisticians to defend their side and delay legal action / public education and never would have actually tried to do an experiment which would have proved/disproved causation which they could have suppressed the data from. I think if you narrow it down to the tech industry, this is as bad as it gets. Of course when you add in pharmaceutical companies or whatever there are worse things  That company bought part of IBM in the past. ThinkPad, etc. They also bought Motorola's mobility division.  They also recently picked up IBM's x86 server business.  I used to recommend lenovo to people. So much for that. As I sit here livid on my Lenovo laptop. install gentoo so which companies are good these days? has Asus done anything shitty yet? i think they might be fine still
 The last  time  I got my Asus  laptop,  they  included  a free  2 year [any damage - you accidently broke your screen by punching it? free repair!]  free return  on top  of the normal  warranty.  I don't  think  any  other  company  does that.  Go over to /r/buildapc and see how much they "love" Asus. The Asus of 2014-2015 has notoriously bad customer support. Their products are still top notch though. It's safe to assume none of them. At least the publicly traded ones. Seems the corporations I feel operate with reasonable morality are all private: In-n-out burger, Trader Joe's, REI, etc. Once a company has shares owned by the public they transform into this beast that doesn't give a shit about anything except revenue and increasing stock price. Unfortunately our laws protect that behavior and only extremely rarely does an actual person get punished with jail time. Microsoft has stepped their shit up lately.

They do a lot of great things in R&amp;D to help disabled and handicapped individuals. You can buy laptops directly from Microsoft without the bloat. They're about the same price, too. Wolf eating you is not good or bad. It's just wolf. And so are corporations. It would be stupid to trust that any corporation has your interests at heart. Google. They spy on me, but they aren't going to sell my information to their competitors. We can't really win. http://xkcd.com/792/ Correct, they got CAUGHT committing one of the worst consumer betrayals ever made  This is too bad, I've been shopping through my corporate perks site for a new laptop, and I had almost settled on Lenovo.  They may have been able to salvage some shred of integrity with a quick response and a sincere apology.  In all actuality, I'm sure I would have just wiped and reinstalled Windows anyways, but I'm not sure if I want to give this company my money any more. I bought a lenovo last december and uninstalled superfish on the same week after searching on the internet and finding other people with the same problem. The ads and malware accusations I was getting from avast and malwarebytes stopped after that.

I'm not so good on this so does anyone know if I'm already free of it? Or is there something more I need to do to guarantee my laptop safety? If you can load this site: https://canibesuperphished.com/ then it means you have bad certs installed.   If you have windows defender running and updated it should remove the certs.

___
EDIT: To clarify if you are uninfected then you **SHOULD GET A SECURITY ERROR** - on Chrome it says _"Your connection is not private"_ with a red, x'd out lock icon. Other browsers will give you different messages, in a similar vein. 

If you get a security error trying to load that site, then everything is OK (at least with respect to superfish's root certs) You should try this: [Lenovo released software to remove it](http://support.lenovo.com/us/en/product_security/superfish_uninstall)

I had already removed the software, yesterday I took off the certificate, today I used that tool, it found and removed registry entries and files I still had. re-ran it as well to make sure, everything was clean. And as an IT consultant who literally JUST recommended Lenovo to a company... I really hope they don't read the news.. Be proactive and notify your clients.

You only look bad if they find out something big you should have warned them about, which given the warning on lenovo's homepage - odds are good they'll see it with even the smallest amount of research. Yeah. You need to bite the bullet on this. The fix is fairly straight forward. If you don't, you'll blow all credibility at some point in the near future cover your ass and send them a letter explaining the new circumstances. If they already bought the products, tell them how to check if they are affected and how to fix it. You have recommended it in good will when the news wasn't out yet and have done the necessary to fix a problem that arised later - as an extra service you weren't bound to give (I guess, I don't know your contract). Just be sure you are in the safe ... Perhaps they would respect you more if you called them and presented the latest facts, rather than crossing your fingers and hoping you don't look bad. I'm just saying, it's way more badass in a Dale Carnegie kind of way. Just make sure they know the difference between ideapad and thinkpad. This did not happen with think machines they would never let that happen  Kind of a stupid title

"You Had One Job, Lenovo"

No, they have like 50,000 jobs when it comes to manufacturing and shipping computer systems. I find it interesting that right before this, the news was filled with how the U.S. Government and the NSA had basically undermined *multiple* companies to spread the same kind of malicious spyware.

As soon as that broke? Oh now we're entirely focused on Lenovo.

A Chinese company - look at what they're doing! 
 Yes, let's please not let the NSA story off the hook because there's another party comprising security. I'm seeing way more Lenovo news than disk firmware news, even when that story broke. Didn't GM just recently keep a known defect secret that caused several crashes and deaths?

I would think that was a bigger betrayal... Knowingly allowing owners' faulty ignition switch to kill them and others. Just a thought. 

This is really bad too.  It's not even close to the worst consumer betrayal of all time.

Exploding Chevy Malibu. [Anderson vs. GM, read about it here.](http://www.psblaw.com/case-anderson-gm.html) $4.9 billion verdict. The award was so large (including record punitive damages) because upper level executives weighed the costs of human lives in potential lawsuits versus the cost of recall.

"[T]he plaintiffs attorneys set out to paint a picture of a cavalier company more interested in turning a profit than making a safer car. To win a large verdict, Mr. Panish said, we had to show that GM put profits over safety and that GM could have prevented these injuries. To do this, he said, the plaintiffs lawyers relied heavily on GMs internal documents.

The timing of the Anderson trial could not have been better for plaintiffs, Mr. Panish conceded. Years of battle with GM by other plaintiffs lawyers had turned up several devastating documents. The key was a 1973 memo written by GM engineer Edward Ivey. It seemingly put a price tag on each human life lost in a fuel-fed fire. The Ivey report estimated that fatalities related to accidents with fuel-fed fires are costing General Motors $2.40 per automobile in current operation.

The Ivey memo had been known by some lawyers for years, said Mr. Panish. But GM had been successful in excluding the memo from evidence in previous trials, largely because Mr. Ivey had testified in depositions that he had not been ordered to provide the analysis and that no one in top management had seen it or ever relied on it in making policy decisions." [quote](http://www.psblaw.com/news-anderson-tnlj.html)

This isn't even close. That said, if anyone's got any verifiable damages, you'll win in court.

I happen to own a Lenovo laptop and it's better than any Dell or Sony laptop I owned. It's an older model though, so it doesn't have superfish. I owned a Lenovo before my current model, too.

They made a big mistake, but I'm not turning my back on the company, because their laptops really are quite good.

That said, I hope they learn from this mistake... &gt; I'm not turning my back on the company, because their laptops really are quite good. That said, I hope they learn from this mistake...

Why would they learn from this if consumers continue to buy from them regardless? because reddit and tech blogs are acting like it's the end of the world. That title is a bit sensationalist... This is hardly one of the worst consumer betrayals when compared to what other companies have done.  Such as? There was the melamine milk scandal in 2008. The fuck up hospitalized tens of thousands of babies and killed several. It wasn't tech related, but it was a huge betrayal. -Tobacco companies completely ignoring health risks after they were brought to light

-Comcast, Time Warner etc.. Need I say more?

-Samsung Smart TV's as of late recording everything and sending it to a 3rd party.

And several more throughout recent history. Considering nothing directly bad has come as a result of this for the consumer and, that it can be removed fairly easily I don't believe I should have such a title. GM ignition switch killing people.

Ford exploding Pintos (Old mustangs do the same) when rear ended, etc. How is someone gaining access to extremely secure things like your bank and credit card accounts "nothing directly bad"? There are literally people in this very thread who state their accounts were hacked for the first time ever after purchasing one of these machines. And your faith in the average consumer being as informed as most in this thread is questionable. Most people will buy a laptop and then never read another thing about it because they wouldn't expect it to have malicious spyware installed on it. Should have been called Superphish. &gt;worst consumer betrayls ever made?

Bayer knowingly and intentionally sold HIV tainted blood to hemophiliac children. Pretty sure that's on a whole other level... Are you fucking kidding?

Oil spills in Alaska and the Gulf Coast that killed millions of fish and ruined local economies.

Banks that literally ruined the entire world economy for the better part of a decade.

Car manufacturers and car part manufacturers that knowingly ignored defects that killed people.

But spyware! That's pretty bad.  Sony and their rootkits

Nestle and their baby drink so that their mother's milk would dry up.

It's not a competition. Its all bad. If we're comparing them, then someone will compete, just like why reddit removed infinite negative karma. 

Things need to change for the better. The first two aren't betrayals against their consumers, they're betrayals against the world. Yes BP is worse, but BP didn't actually do anything to their own customers specifically. This post is talking about *betrayals* or *your* consumers. Never buying their junk again. And neither should other people.  Regardless of the truth of its message, this seems to be a very unprofessional article. The language is really emotive and exclamatory with lots of personal anecdotes. He even makes personal attacks on the people involved, and ones which belittle those in retail jobs- "With any luck, hell be a Cinnabon manager before long". Is this an opinion piece and I haven't noticed?

EDIT: TIL Pop culture references sound far worse out of context The Cinnabon line was a reference to Breaking Bad / Better Call Saul.  I think the author was looking for a clever way to say this should be career ending and bring much hated toward the guy from others in the industry and he should have to disappear as a result. OK, that makes much more sense It's Slate, they're here for the clicks, not for the journalism. I read the Cinnabon manager part to be a reference to Better Call Saul, in which he had to go in hiding at the end of Breaking Bad because of fear of prosecution and depth. Ah, missed the reference! This is reddit.  We only attack non-professional reporting if its on fox.  Also yes. This is an opinion piece. Another reason why i wipe computers as soon as i get them I bought a lenovo thinkpad during black friday on amazon with windows 7 and used the website to check, looked thru system programs, etc and no superfish...is this on certain laptops? Mine doesn't seem to be affected. Thinkpads aren't effected.

They are the good quality Lenovo products... you get what you pay for.  As we speak, other tech giants are frantically trying to patch/remove their own spyware so they don't get caught as well. Has everyone already forgotten the sony root kit? That was Some serious malicious stuff.  Or the Intuit Turbo Tax.

Sadly I liked Lenovo (well, hit or miss but I certainly like Thinkpads). Talk about shitting on the brand loyalty holdovers from IBM... I like my Lenovo thinkpad, and I'd buy another if it weren't for this. even though the thinkpad line wasn't affected, I'm boycotting Lenovo now Cisco did far worse by lobbying ($$$$$) to relax the rules (rules that were put in place for a reason) to open a factory in China. 

Americans lost jobs, and the Chinese supplied Cisco with phony chips that were designed to steal information. Of course THE PENTAGON was supplied with these routers. 

The potential for a catastrophic military failure seems to be certain, if we were to engage with the Chinese. Since then they have sold us chips that we put in practically every advanced weapons system. 

Fuck Cisco.   So it's Cisco, not congress to blame? Actually, if you want to go that route, it is Bill Klinton to blame. But I knew how butthurt some people get when their icons are criticized. They are like 3 year olds. Anyway...

China's "long march" rockets were not flying so well, and their satellites were not doing great, either, so they decided to take the technology from us. They have spies in this country who are very good at stealing information from us. And if they can not steal, they purchase, disassemble, and ship back to China, or they persuade corrupt CRAPITALISTS and their corrupt legislator counterparts to sell it to them. 

Bernard Schwartz was CEO of Loral Corporation, and the business needed help. He was also a big Clinton donor. Clinton MOVED oversight of technology deals from the State Department  to the Commerce Department, home of the late Ron Brown, (who died in a plane crash with a bullet in his head) and Ron Brown approved the sale of weather satellite tech to China. 

China uses that weather satellite to MAP the US, and target missiles at it now. ~~~We~~He gave them the means to kill us. This opened the door to future tech "deals" that put even redditors in danger!  Sources? Back in MY day, when I didn't believe someone I LOOKED IT UP MYSELF. I DID THE RESEARCH. There are things called "search engines"...

April 4th 1998 New York Times. Jeff Gerth and Raymond Bonner reported the Justice Department was looking to prosecute two defense contractors who may have illegally provided China with space expertise that "significantly advanced Beijing's ballistic missile program."

Bill Clinton "quietly approved the export to China of similar technology by one of the companies under investigation." The chairman of that company, Loral, Bernard Schwartz, was the largest individual contributor to the Democratic National Committee in 1997.  

 This is why you format the hard drive and reinstall Windows when you buy a laptop/premade PC. ... and yesterday, its stock was up slightly, again, after gaining more than 50% in the last 52 weeks.  

Lenovo has stated that its commission from the vendor for installing Superfish on their machines and blowing their own integrity out of the water was "minor". Given that, and looking ahead to their perhaps-exponential crash in laptop sales, I'm sure it will come to regret the offhandedness with which management has decided to favour such outrageous amounts of bloatware  - not to mention the sheer infuriating gall of their blankfaced, McFerrinesque "don't worry, be happy" public response to this betrayal of customers' trust. Now Lenovo is on line, don't know how many more to come . You'll only hear of it when it's a non-American company. I don't approve of what Lenovo is doing but the only reason there is a different reaction here to the usual "we can't do anything" or "shut the fuck up conspiracy theorist" is because they're a Chinese company.

Notice how finally, even reddits demographic has succumbed to the sustained pressure from US media and are now chanting in unison with all other Americans/Westerners talking about how bad Snowden is (mostly). All the article is saying is that in theory it *should* be okay based on the precedent set by Chatanooga and Wilson. It seems like they had to jump through some legal hoops to get there but now that it's been done the FCC anticipates it being easier to do for other cities moving forward. I can't help but feel like a much larger city needs to do this to really get the attention of Comcast/TWC. Well...considering Emanuel's in office, you can cross Chicago off of that list. Whose pocket is he in? The highest bidder. So he's the mayor of Chicago? Well on his way to being governer of Illinois. Doubt it. I would never leave being mayor of Chicago for governor of Illinois. 

You get just as much in paybacks but with no jail time. ;) Is that a Blagojevich joke? That sounds like a Blagojevich joke. Blagojevich sounds like an eastern European genre of humor I've never heard of. It's more a mix of humor and tragedy There are multiple former IL governors in prison.  Or they died in prison, I forget which. In the fairness of truth: Excluding the incumbent, 4 out of the last 8 Governors of Illinois have served jail time. That must be some kind of record.  Literally anyone who will pay him. Rahm is one of the slimiest dudes in politics. Which is pretty typical for Chicago politicians. This website its pretty good for getting a general idea, gets a little tricky when it comes to PACs though http://www.opensecrets.org/politicians/summary.php?cid=N00024813&amp;cycle=2008  Comcast. IIRC he recently came out in support of the merger. Ex-Chicagoan here, can confirm, Emanuel is bought. Rahmrod? Corrupt? Say it ain't so! We should do in Philadelphia, as it is their flagship city now!! HA! Good luck ever getting that past the Comcast-shill of a mayor. The gang builds the internet. Seattle is our only hope... Whats the state gonna do? Send in the national guard and force everyone to sign comcast contracts? "Whoops, your high school's funding went away. What a shame about those state retirement funds for your teachers, too."  Just like drinking age and public roads.

The state can set the drinking age to whatever they want, but if they set it to 21, they get to keep having their public roads funded This is the problem with a government that has too much power.  They can 'legally' sidestep laws by using these exact tactics.  To play devils advocate though, is a national government with to much power any different then a state with it?

Assume you had 10 different states each with a different drinking age or set of laws.  I would think that could cause more issues with national laws.  Canada sets the drinking age at the provincial level. Some have 18, others 19. And yet, they manage to hold it together. Canada also has much larger provinces, far fewer provinces, and significantly less interprovincial travel. I'm not saying you're wrong, just making sure all the facts are out there. The US did just fine with each state setting their drinking laws until Reagan got a bug up his butt in the 80's. &gt;Canada also has . . . far fewer provinces, and significantly less interprovincial travel

All of those are a result of the same thing: larger sized provinces. If you started combining states, you'd get fewer states and less interstate travel as well, or if you broke up the provinces, you'd get more, smaller provinces and more interprovincial travel. I vote that Western Washington, Western Oregon, and Northern California merge to become the great state of Cascadia! That would make more states, not less &gt; I would think that could cause more issues with national laws.

Why?  The drinking age is a state law.  There is no national law.  How would a state actually exercising their right to create their own drinking laws going to affect non-existent national ones?  It's actually possible to have this happen. As stated below in order to make the state's follow the 'must be 21 to drink ' law the government took away money supposed to go to states for highways.  They did what was asked of them then. 

Edit: added words It's also possible to sue a state into insolvency in federal court.  What's with that random missing letter in the middle of y ur post? They're behind on their state taxes and are having their keyboard garnished.  I can't have my keyboard garnisheed!  I never discuss business on the lanai.. Something, something, parsley. Wouldn't it have been more cost effective to eliminate the 'w' since you can just use two v's? Don't you mean double-u?

Edit: Typos Now say "w" in French. The real answer is I suck at typing on cell phones  It's a throttled letter and will be along in a while. No, the letter is just undergoing some 'traffic shaping' to provide our customers an optimal typing experience. I'd like to by a vowel, please. Someone's school funding went away. Obama: "Whoops federal active duty army engineer corps seemed to have accidentally built a fibre network in your state, my bad" "And due to negligence on their part, they accidentally repaired any crumbling bridges, implemented public transportation, forced employers to pay a minimum wage of $11/hour, and shut down private prisons. Sorry. Crap.  I live in Louisiana.  The state would collectively shit bricks then  use those bricks to destroy the bridges and public transportation; donate them to private organizations to rebuild the prisons and use them to stone the employers. Hah, at that point they'd have to close the school system down. Because nearly all teachers would go on strike. Depends on the state. By law, teachers cannot strike here in the People's Republic of NY That'll bite them in the ass when they all quit at the same time and strike. Can't be illegal if they're technically not teachers. Or they all just happen to call in sick. the educational equivalent of the "Blue Flu" Sweden's gay flu outbreak  That doesn't mean there have no been strikes, nor will there not be future strikes. 

A change as drastic as removing pension would spark fire in members of the NYSUT. Teachers are already paid trash as it is, you can't expect them to have nothing when they are done with their teaching carrier. I graduated from a NYS public high school about 8 years ago and I remember our teachers going on strike. The union president had to go hide in Vermont. There are ways around that.  Actually my teachers would do sit downs before school then go in and teach (this is in NY). Not much the districts could do, as it was the majority of teachers, in the middle of the school year. Oh, they won't be striking. They will just be taking an indeterminate amount of unplanned, unpaid, time off to plan for their retirement. The teachers in my state bargained away their ability to strike back in the 80s. If we strike we will all be immediately fired.  I doubt they'll care about that when they're paid less than retail workers. I dunno about that.

Is it possible for the state to threaten to take away their teaching certification? Whoops, remember those votes you wanted and expected? All gone now. :D Yes! Just vote for the ones who are not on the lobbyists' payroll! Oh wait... Under the constitution the town is an extension of the state, they could dissolve the town or county if they wanted. I'd don't think a state would go that far though. You underestimate the idiocy of my reps here in Tennessee. Its almost like FloridaMan ran and got elected up here. I know you're halfway joking, but probably not. 

The state, however, if it were serious would sue.  The governor would direct the attorney general to file a lawsuit against the city.  Thy would file a lawsuit in the general state court stating, more or less, that the city has a program that's in violation of state law, and seeking a court order that the city stop. 

The city's defense in such a lawsuit would probably be that federal pre-emption applies. They might try to remove to federal court but I'm not sure that would work.   

The lawsuit would basically end one of two ways. Either (1) the state loses, and the city gets to keep their internet, or (2) there's a court order directing the city to cease operating the municipal internet. 

If the city refuses? then we've got a genuine government crisis.  usually agencies don't refuse court orders on purpose.  The court could compel the agency either with (a) contempt findings personal to the officials in charge (i.e. you go to jail if you don't follow the order, or (b) directing the sherriffs to intervene.  What shithole states would stop that? The ones who are getting money from Comcast/twc/Verizon  Even West Verizonia and Comcasticut? Even them jimmy, even them. Basically all of them then.  Your talking about Pennsylvania right? Cause I can see this happening in Philly.  I've never seen so many people apologize for Comcast's shitty behavior as in Philly. I get it, that's their hometown hero and they built Philly's tallest skyscraper, but c'mon. They're actively making the country a shittier place. I do not know a single person who actually lives here that likes Comcast. Please stop giving Comcast ideas. &gt;Wheeler decided today that North Carolina's and Tennessee's laws could be preempted.

Im finding fewer and fewer reasons to hate this guy. Same. It's like he stepped into the glorious light of truth, and now has a mission.

Or maybe someone from Comcast/TWC said something to him to piss him off, and he now has some wicked good personal vendetta.  Or maybe a campaign which includes even the President going on record in support of something can sway public policy Maybe.. but I can't picture that as a painting on the ceiling of the Sistine Chapel the way I'm picturing my scenario.

Wheeler basking in brilliant light, brandishing a flaming sword, and getting ready to make it rain sulfur. I much prefer your version, I was mostly replying to the second part, heh  Or maybe Reddit was pushing the "Wheeler is corrupt" narrative so hard that they never considered that he might be a professional willing to do his job properly. We did it Reddit! No, you did it.  Or maybe reddit and other groups pushed the narrative so hard that the relevant government agents had to change their public facing or else be exposed as *actual* dingoes.  On the internet, nobody knows you're a dingo. Unless he says, "I'm not a dingo." Then he's a dingo. I tagged you "a dingo".  Now I know forever. You can't be exposed as a dingo unless you actually eat a baby. It's in the rules. Government is guilty until proven innocent these days. As it should be.

Has he done anything yet? This looks like talk. He redefined broadband as 25/4, which is a huge step forward. My provider can't advertise its 1/.5 connection as "high-speed broadband" anymore *Thanks* *Obama* Going along with that, the president may have made a few calls to wheeler telling him to get his head out of his ass.  He is our Stannis Baratheon. At first we thought he was a bad guy, but he keeps getting more and more good.

The Prince that was Promised; The Son of Fire and Warrior of Light. He is Azor Ahai reborn, and he shall bear Lightbringer and strike down the evil MegaCorporations of Comcast, Verizon, AT&amp;T, and TWC! Praise Rh'llor-over-IP, for the net is dark and full of throttles! But are you okay with him allowing the sacrifice of a bastard boy related to Comcast for your cheap, reliable fiber internet?

Stupid question, sorry. That actually did happen, but with Verizon.

[Verizon's lawsuit backfires](http://bgr.com/2014/11/12/verizon-net-neutrality-lawsuit/) Good Guy Verizon, is such a pain in the ass that even unmotivated bureaucrats get pissed off and manage to pass strong net neutrality.

 I like to think it was the complaints I sent to the fcc before and after they lost them. Just mine, no one else's. I remember reading an article here that said that Google is using record amount of money on lobbying. I'm not an expert in US politics, but shouldn't that be a logical conclusion of that?  Or he is pulling the wool over our eyes...or maybe i just don't trust anyone in the government...i dunno what to believe any more.  Oh that's definitely a possibility. I've been worried about this as well, but his recent actions are so positive that I *want* to believe. It almost seems too easy, doesn't it? Call a man a dingo and you really reach into his soul Seriously, that silly episode seems to have coincided with all of this great stuff coming out of the FCC.  Sometimes all it takes is a bit of awareness of how the world sees you.  Naturally. It has to hit cable before anyone will listen. Basically John Oliver is the internet's voice at this point and I'm completely okay with that. David Cameron, Dianna Feinstein, and Tony Abbot are dingos. 

This had better work.  I'm sincerely hoping that all of the protests and outcry for Net Neutrality and all the negative attention that has been directed at Tom Wheeler for his stance against it has swayed his point of view on this whole situation. I keep seeing things he does or says that I agree with, and I want it to be because he's actually doing his job and helping the little guy.

But I can't help but feel that there's the possibility that he's "laying low" so-to-speak. Maybe he's just acting rational and toning down what he does now to hit us with a big wave of ignorance and ISP corruption down the line? I hate to think like a conspiracy theorist, but I don't want to let my guard with any issues involving Big Cable. I'm just worried that he's trying to get all of this pushed through while secretly knowing there's zero actual chance of any of these sticking... But for now, I'll stay optimistic. There are important notes to remember:

There are five chairs in the FCC.  Ajit Pai and Mike O'Rielly are as conservative as they come.  Ajit's response to the FCC's 25MB broadband ruling includes:

*This decision should surprise American consumers. 71% of consumers who can purchase fixed
25 Mbps serviceover 70 million householdschoose not to.
 And before today, 58 million Americans
thought they had subscribed to mobile broadband. But now the FCC says theyre getting something else.*

Pai then goes on to [make a good point](http://transition.fcc.gov/Daily_Releases/Daily_Business/2015/db0129/DOC-331760A5.pdf) about money wasted building 10Mbps infrastructure that is no longer considered broadband.

He does not mention a solution however.  I hate to start a sentence with "like many conservatives," but this is a common trend between congress, 2016 candidates, and others:  "We oppose what is before us, but we refuse to offer an alternate solution or recognize there is a problem for non-wealthy Americans"

Finally, he shoots his good point in the foot with:

*Ill stick with just two: 98.5% of Americans now live in
areas covered by 4G LTE networks (i.e., networks capable of delivering 12 Mbps mobile Internet
access). Thats 97.99 million more Americans than just two years ago.*

...because Netflix, Call of Duty, and Game of Thrones are going to work well over 4G LTE in the rural areas, right?

Wheeler, thankfully, has a progressive majority, but he has [ISP roots](http://www.theverge.com/2013/5/2/4293682/meet-tom-wheeler-the-man-who-could-control-your-digital-life).  he can manipulate the wording to sound liberal but open new loopholes for his former cohorts.  To quote the O'Jays:  *They smilin' in your face...whole time, they wanna take your place, the backstabbers...[BACKSTABBERS](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OwZciH3hx-A)*.

It is important to not only view what he does, but watch the implementations of each action.  So far so good, but continue to be defensive about him.  He was very quiet until the POTUS spoke out. &gt; 71% of consumers who can purchase fixed 25 Mbps serviceover 70 million householdschoose not to

Well no shit, because they usually price it at ridiculous rates. 
 Exactly. Just because it is available doesn't make it attainable for the average consumer.  Yep. We saw the same thing with healthcare.

"Good healthcare is available!" "But we can't affor..." "GOOD HEALTHCARE. AVAILABLE." What do you mean air travel sucks? You don't just use your Gulfstream? He's building good will for when he shits on Net Nuetraility.  Get ready for laws making them unfeasible:  limit borrowing for that type of project, require profitability in an unreasonable time frame etc. I hate this crap. Oh we can't ban it? Then we'll put up so much red tape that its banned in all but name.  Kind of like abortions. so... post office 2.0? From my understanding, that's the nature of many of the laws in place. That many of them don't explicitly ban municipal networks, but they have to meet such high standards that they can't feasibly exist.

And from what I've seen of the argument that people are making on this front in that Article 706 of the Telecommunications Act of 1996 or whatever theoretically allows the FCC to determine that those laws to say those laws inhibit the timely/reasonable rollout of broadband service. So the decision they make should nullify the laws in place doing that already as well as prevent new ones of the same nature. Those could be argued to be flying in the face of Section 706, which directs each state to promote competition and remove barriers. So those laws could also be preempted, just like the laws here have. I like to imagine that Wheeler had some kind of sweaty 2am nightmare epiphany a few months ago, and finally realized that the future of American economic competitiveness is almost wholly dependent on ending the stranglehold our ISPs have had on communications infrastructure.

The importance of the FCC right now cannot be overstated.  In twenty years, if America is still anywhere near the top, it will be because of the decisions made by the FCC and the courts on communications infrastructure.  If America has been crapped down to the bottom of the toilet, it will be because they failed to act or were too cozy with the communications lobby.

In twenty years, Wheeler could be viewed as a fucking hero of the American economy.  There could be dozens or hundreds of economics papers written about the far-ranging impacts of his tough love policies.

Maybe he finally realized that, checked his bank account, realized he was already doing just fucking fine, and decided to be a goddamn American hero instead of another shitsucking corporate shill for a couple extra million.

Only time will tell. &gt; I like to imagine that Wheeler had some kind of sweaty 2am nightmare epiphany a few months ago, and finally realized that the future of American economic competitiveness is almost wholly dependent on ending the stranglehold our ISPs have had on communications infrastructure.

He had a network company in the 80's that folded because of unfair regulations that favored the giants. I think he's been playing the long game. TLDR: america is at its crossroad where it chooses between survival or greed. That's a quote for the ages.  I think part of the problem with a lot of issues we face today is that our politicians and appointees don't realize the future effects of what they do today. Their decisions may seem great right now, but what does that leave for us in 10 or 20 years? For our children? The internet should be treated like a national treasure because it combines so many forms of media into one incredible thing that everyone can/should access. We can't treat it like an iPhone or a TV...as this thing to make money. I hope that he's seen that and it's the reason for his change.  &gt; checked his bank account, realized he was already doing just fucking fine, and decided to be a goddamn American hero 

Is it really too much to ask the multi-millionaires to realize that they have more than enough money? Really, guys, you have more money than me and my entire family will make in our collective lives.

Step back, stop being greedy, and help out the rest of us.

Is that really a bad thing? Are you really so reliant on the masturbatory circlejerk at the top that you can't stop faking it for a while and be a human being again?

 &gt;...help out the rest of us.

I have some friends that would say that that sentiment is very 'un-American'.  And on one hand, I could agree with them. I don't think we should be hand-fed or force others to give to those who want to be lazy. That's fine, if a bit simplistic.

But I don't want to take Wheeler's money. Hell, I don't even want to take the CEO of Comcast's money.

I want them to realize that they have more than enough money for anything they could possibly want. They no longer need to focus all their energy on getting more and more and more.

Instead they can use the power they've accumulated to help their fellow man do better as well.

They have the resources to give other people the opportunity to do amazing things and live their lives more comfortably, all without taking anything from "the rich." 

They could vastly accelerate progress by providing education, information, cleanliness, etc. 

But instead, it seems like we see them just sit at the top and engage in this ridiculous game of "king of the hill." They reach down and take as much as they can grab from those who have next to nothing, then yell about how victimized they are from their mansions.

It's really deplorable, infantile behavior, and it's really sad. [deleted] I don't know you, but I hate you.  Michigan... is your city Wyandotte? Because I'm from there and we had that.  [deleted] That's crazy, I probably know you! So we should probably stop talking and move along. _  Never thought I would ever meet someone else from Wyandotte. Unfortunately I moved to Alabama when I was 5, only to return once a year to visit family. 

For fun, [Here](http://imgur.com/NRy0xnf) is a clipping my mom found in an old newspaper she saved. Not sure why she saved this particular one. Kennedy assassination or Moon Landing are the ones I recall framed on the wall.  There are literally dozens of us. Wilson resident here; Greenlight has been light years better in terms of customer service, and TWC has been forced (GASP!) to lower its prices to be competitive. So is the FCC playing nice again now? Or do we still hate them.  Cautiously Optimistic I'm more skeptical than anything.  This feels more like the lube before... well, you know... They usually go in dry... so things are looking up?  Rape is still rape. Yeah, but if it's *true* rape, the body shuts down. So it's like Stockholm Syndrome? Seems like Google's finally outspending Comcast's lobbying efforts. Maybe Google gets hold of Comcast's CEO's secrets. He probably realized that they have his Browser history. In another thread there was a posting regarding a law that is being worked on that would take away any enforcing power from FCC. If that's the case, FCC can make a law requiring every house to have 10gbits connection, but it will never go into effect since FCC won't have any power to enforce it.  That's assuming Obama wouldn't veto it, which he would until he leaves office if that's what it takes until the FCC makes their decision. Unless a congresswomen like Marsha Blackburn attaches this bill as an amendment to a must pass spending bill like HR 5016, which if vetoed will shut down the federal government costing unknown damage to country as a whole. Unless enough Democrats get paid off by the telecoms the two bills you are mentioning will not have a super majority vote and thus can be vetoed by Obama.  Seeing as he is calling for Title II regulation this is very likely not to go into effect. I don't think that would ever pass, unless a large share of Congress wants to dissolve the FCC. Because that is basically what that would do. Without enforcement powers, they wouldn't be able to do anything about interference. You won't see this ever happen. The wireless industry has enough interest there to make sure the right people get the right amount of money to make sure that never passes. It is a good time to be a citizen of NY! State government is making it a law for basically every square inch of the state to be rigged for internet. Not only that, but urban areas will have a standard of 100mb/s and now the FCC is finally on our side? Which gives the possibility of either my local Google Fiber clone (Green Light) or a new city internet to go so fast and so efficient it'll be the best time to live and best place to live! I just realized how sarcastic that sounds. Im in NY and have no idea what you are talking about. What city are you in? That's sarcasm, right? Well then, I'm gonna have my own Internet, with blackjack and hookers! What's wrong with the blackjack and hookers on the other Internet? Tend to come prebundled with malware and botnets. I'm 40% bot! Does anyone remember how we were out for the FCC's blood when this whole thing started? Now the FCC seems to have sorted their shit out. Am I missing something here?  I would caution that actions speak louder than words. When the FCC actually puts rules (without loopholes) into place that require net neutrality and rules that prevent states from stopping local governments from installing high speed Internet, then I will celebrate. Yes, apparently.   They seem to have actually taken public opinion into account and drastically changed their overall position/actions.  I know - a semi - elected official listening to the public... but that's how it seems. I'm skeptical, but hopeful. Doesn't really matter. California has had a similar policy in place for years and we're still stuck with Comcast and shitty At&amp;t. They're not competing. The cities are broke.

At&amp;t has tossed in the towel and not upgraded DSL in ages so it maxes out at around 2mbits in my neighborhood. That leaves one wired source of bits, Comcast.

The problem is that the ISPs are allowed to be other things that compete with being an ISP. For example, At&amp;t is allowed to also provide cell service. They make more money off of cell service so their capital flows to the cell side of the business leaving wired DSL high and dry. They don't care because they're just milking their old POTS lines. It's just incremental revenue to them instead of their main bread and butter.

If the FCC were serious and not just grandstanding like it is now, they'd say if you want to be in the bit delivery business, you get to choose wired internet, or wireless internet or content creation - choose one. Break up At&amp;t and Comcast and you'd get a resurgence in the ISP business just like what happened the first time At&amp;t was broken apart in the 80's. 

Whoever picked up the ISP part of the business would treat it as their meal ticket instead of an appetizer. What if your city says no? Google fiber is coming to my town in Atlanta but the county is in bed with Comcast. Vote for someone who says yes. What if they all say no? Then run yourself.

No matter how you break it down, at least with city government you have a *chance* of making things happen, no matter how small it might be due to your local politics.  With Comcast, you have *zero* chance of making things happen. Ok Reddit, this is the plan.

We all change our Router SSIDs to Reddit and the password to Reddit as well.  

This way, we'll always be connected to the internet because when you lose connection to one Reddit SSID, our devices will automatically connect to the next Reddit SSID. What could go wrong!? At least one guy would start sending child porn through it, I guarantee it. Uh, is the Federal Government even capable of superseding the State in this matter? The article outlines how this is possible:

"But many states have laws restricting the practice, which were mostly lobbied for by telecom companies. Wheeler and Obama have said they'd use a process known as preemption, in which the federal government invalidates part of a state law (at least on a case-by-case basis)." Adding to what /u/GotSka81 said, the way this is possible is due to the [Supremacy Clause](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Supremacy_Clause) (Article VI, clause 2) of the United States Constitution,

&gt;This Constitution, and the laws of the United States which shall be made in pursuance thereof; and all treaties made, or which shall be made, under the authority of the United States, **shall be the supreme law of the land**; and the judges in every state shall be bound thereby, **anything in the Constitution or laws of any State to the contrary notwithstanding**.

(Emphasis mine)

Basically it is saying that any laws of the States that conflict with laws of the Federal government are "preempted" by the Federal government. Here's a relevant line from a Supreme Court case:

&gt;It is basic to this constitutional command that all conflicting state provisions be without effect.

[Maryland v. Louisiana, 451 U. S. 746 (1981)](https://supreme.justia.com/cases/federal/us/451/725/case.html#746)

I'm not an expert at constitutional law, so if I'm wrong in anything I said, feel free to correct me. The city I grew up in had it's own Cable/Cable Internet. It was Mokay but it was also a monopoly, you could not get anything else unless you went dish, their prices were on par with everything else and their customer service wasn't Comcast so there's that.  Yeah, anything has the same potential for abuse without competition.  It says a lot when a government owned ISP in a red state is one of the fastest in the nation (Chattanooga TN) Government owned aka citizen owned. Can someone explain this seemingly drastic 180 Wheeler has done? Was Reddit just blowing smoke at this guy the whole time or did something happen that made him switch positions on everything? Am I the only one thinking that Tom Wheeler hasn't actually become the corporate shill piece of shit we were all expecting him to be? I have said this before, I will keep saying it. It is time America has the Rural Netrification Project, much as we had the Rural Electrification Project in the last century.  We are languishing out here in the hinterlands.  I'm glad Tom Wheeler has finally found his balls after sitting on his ass for a year.
 YES!!! Victory tastes so sweet! This, plus the reclassification under title II? This is a great month for the internet! Any word from douchebag state lawmakers on what they'll try to do about this? You know a free market doesn't exist in a particular sector when the public is screaming for municipalities to take over services. The fact that they *would* say, "No." is a sign that there is something terribly awry in our state legislatures. well here is a good news story from the US that you dont seem to see very often anymore. it would be better though to arrest a few politicians for corruption and put the m in jail for a while./  [deleted] The Telecommunications Act gives them authority to regulate interstate networks. [deleted] nah man [RFC 1149](http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc1149) is where the party is at. Well this is exactly the reason why internet sucks in the USA today.

Just read an article today that Romania has one of the fastest internet on the entire planet and basically it's because when they started to implement the internet they literally had no rules and regulations and literally anyone could just run their cables wherever the fuck they wanted.

Apparently this resulted in an ugly landscape of hundreds of lines of cables on posts (as there were hundreds of ISPs or local neighborhood networks) but it also resulted in ridiculously fast internet due to competition. It's worth pointing out that Romania has a population density that is approximately 3 times that of the United States (93per square km vs. 34 per square mile).  There would be areas of the US that would probably do okay and there would be areas of the US that would probably have no internet at all. Also convincing each state individually to let a company run one line from LA to NY would make the process very arduous.  Long story short it worked for Romania because of their particular situation, there is no reason to assume we would be significantly better off or that one company wouldn't eventually lobby for federal regulation like we have now anyway just to avoid individual state politics. It actually would be pretty awesome to create a LAN network between a couple of houses. [deleted] I think everyone is being just a touch too optimistic about Wheeler lately. There is no such thing as a midnight epiphany and a change of heart in politics. If anything he's conceding here so that further down the road they can sneak in some stuff.  I've seen some people in various threads about this asking about the authority of the FCC to unilaterally overturn state laws.

The "Interstate Commerce Clause", found in [*Article I, Section 8, Clause 3*](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Commerce_Clause) is what congress used to delegate the authority over broadband to the FCC under the Telecommunications Act of 1995. Section 706 of this act which grasnts the FCC the authority to take measures to ensure the timely deployment of broadband internet throught the United States.

The reason they could theoretically use that authority to unilatterally overturn state laws prohibiting broadband competiti*on would lie under the Supremacy Clause under [*Article VI, Clause II*](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Supremacy_Clause). This prohibits states from passing laws or regulations that interfere with the lawful functons of the Federal Government. See the Landmark Supreme Court case of [*McChulloch v. Maryland*](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/McCulloch_v._Maryland) for more details.

I hope this provides some clarification for anyone confused on the subject. Also, keep in mind that this has never been done before by the FCC under its current authority and that its all still considered theoretical since there is no legal precedent of them doing this. Sure, but they will probably start charging by the byte... just like electric and water. My state is tellin' me no! But my city. Yeah my city. Is tellin' me yes! I don't see nothing wrong... with a little internet. THIS is a good example of when federal power should intervene over states rights: To quash a coordinated effort by states to support a monopoly. So its OK for the federal government to trample all over states rights, as long as its a subject you agree with?

 Um, no body in their right mind with a feeble understanding of economics supports monopolies so I don't know what you're arguing here. If a State wants to allow a monopoly within its own borders, then that is between that state and its citizens.  You need to stop looking to the Federal government to solve all the problems within your borders, and fix them yourself with your state government. It's not between the state and the citizens.  It's between the bought and paid for legislators in the state who made these restrictions in the first place.

The citizens in Chattanooga have spoken and we wanted our municipal internet from EPB. This is bullshit - you're oversimplifying a complex situation to the point of no longer adding anything to the discussion. I would point out that you are over complicating something that is actually relatively simple. I'm talking about balance. There are some things the Fed should get involved in and some things they shouldn't. You're sounding very one sided and ideological. Oh, and kind of like a dum dum. Yes, when it means less government restrictions. 
 CAT8 cable on the house for the next week!  Now the question isn't whether the law is stopping you from having better internet. It's how deep in Comcast's pocket is your local government? [fuck yeah seaking!](http://fc05.deviantart.net/fs70/f/2010/029/0/0/FUCK_YEAH_SEAKING_by_TokyoMewMew_Girl.jpg) Good. Suck it, state. [deleted] $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ Can't name one off the top of my head, but it was more than likely spun from buzzwords given to them by a telecom lobbyist filling their pockets with campaign contributions An infrastructure paid or subsidized by public funds would be "unfair competition" for a company like Comcast. Multiple cities get sued by large companies, which sets a legal precedence for the state. Some states will even pass laws on the behalf of the large telecom companies to create a "level" playing field.

With public funds, the city is able to offset the cost over multiple years while an A&amp;T or Comcast needs to worry about quarterly profit reports to shareholders.

A municipality will have access to state and federal funds for city infrastructure enhancement that a large telecom would not.

A city can piggy-back an internet offerings on existing infrastructure approved by voters that was built for other reasons. In one example (cant remember exactly where) a city built out a large fiber network to be used for city's own communication needs--such as emergency services, government buildings, etc. They wanted to use the unused bandwidth to provide a municipal internet service to the city, but were prevented from doing so.

Its not the only reason, but it is a common one. Typically it's worded in the interest of protecting private business from governmental interference in the market. It's a flimsy argument though.  Sooooo someone tell me bout this "Public Internet". Sounds awesome but what are the costs to implement it? Does this bypass internet companies completely? Can it be built on an individual basis? What mainframe are they connecting into? My family lives 3.5 hours away from them, can they get involved with this? Public internet, in this context, would be a infrastructure funded by taxes. Like it already is. Minnesota courts said go.

http://arstechnica.com/tech-policy/2009/06/monticello-appeals-court-win/ In the future your broadband choices will be:

Government Internet access, which is cheap,  unthrottled, but censored and monitored for violations of state and Federal laws (including copyright).

Private Internet access, which is more expensive, throttled/bandwidth restricted to favor certain providers (aka bandwidth shaping) at times, but uncensored and not particularly monitored closely because encryption will make such monitoring near impossible unless your initials are NSA. Or... Government Internet and the new 56k forever. So, the unelected bureaucrats of the federal government feel they can overrule the state government, to stop the elected state government from overruling city government. This would be funny if it weren't so sad. Remember folks, our mission is still to destroy the God forsaken beasts called Comcast and TWC.  Just because they might start losing soon doesn't mean they don't still deserve to be snuffed out from the annals of human history.  Never forget how close they came to turning our most precious resource into another inequal, class-divided, corrupt, bought-and-sold greed fest.  We must not stop until every one of them are disgraced and unemployed. Yet another reason why having a powerful fed is useful.  There are some things that shouldn't be on a case by case basis.  Access to the internet is one of them. Some states it's would be easier or much harder. Texas, for example. The state government could give a rats ass about what individual communities want. Take Denton's ban on fracking. The railroad commission and department of energy both said they don't care. They are going to keep issuing permits to frack and even explore there, regardless of what the people want. Most likely because of all the lobbying that has been done by gas and oil companies. I imagine it would be just as hard here, if a community or city decided to build their own Internet.  I'm reading this as cities can easily have better internet service but states and FCC have been stopping it from happening for who knows how long Is there a list of States with this law?  I tried looking for it but i couldn't find anything. So does Netflix now turn around and tell VZ/Comcast to go fuck themselves? Can they/should they/will they stop paying ISPs?

When do these rules take effect? &gt;The reclassification and net neutrality rules will take effect ~~30~~ 30 to 60 days after theyre printed in the Federal Register.


[Source](http://deadline.com/2015/02/fcc-passes-net-neutrality-vote-internet-regulations-1201381827/)

Edit: Changed the amount of days it will take effect. We'll probably have to deal with an injunction first.  I bet the Telecoms will fuck this as hard as they can with the dirtiest, grainiest lube they can find.  You think they're nice enough to use lube?! They don't want to get a friction burn on their cock.

They know they'll be in this one for the long haul.  They actually have been using their ridiculous 95% profit margin to develop a new kind of anti-lube because they didn't feel like we were enough pain from their rough fuckings.

Edit: Guys my statistics are 100% true* and accurate** all the time, please put total and complete faith in them forevermore, amen.

---

*^not ^really

**^bullshit &gt;anti-lube

I like to call it sandpaper.  Powered salt, sand, chalk, jello mix and ground apricot pits. The jello prevents the blood from helping to lubricate. Wow, your experience, it's well endowed That's what Verizon did to the old weak net neutrality rules. Basically fucked themselves and all the other big ISPs because it eventually led to this Title 2 reclassification.  The press conference currently on CSPAN said that it will take effect 60 days after being printed. After searching the internet with google. News sites seem to conflict with how long this will actually take to go into affect.

[The rules take effect after being published in the Federal Register.](http://www.nydailynews.com/news/politics/cities-win-bid-fcc-overrule-state-broadband-limits-article-1.2130278)

[The full FCC order will be available on the commissions website within the next few weeks and will take effect 60 days after being published in the Federal Register.](http://www.wsj.com/articles/fcc-approves-net-neutrality-rules-setting-stage-for-legal-battle-1424974319)

[According to Harold Feld of Public Knowledge, the rules only go into effect 30 days after they appear in the Federal Register, which could take a few weeks.](https://gigaom.com/2015/02/26/net-neutrality-day-is-here-a-guide-to-todays-vote/) Well, let's just say 30-60 days, I guess... &gt; So does Netflix now turn around and tell VZ/Comcast to go fuck themselves? Can they/should they/will they stop paying ISPs?

It is likely they have contracts already in place that will continue the current agreements. Once those contracts are up for renewal, though, I imagine Netflix will have a pretty big reason to give them the finger.
 Those contracts would have been entered into under coercion from the isp.  I'm not sure but I think the contracts would uphold based on the law when they were drawn up, no? I'd guess that Netflix will intentionally breach the contract and if an ISP sues to enforce the contract they will present a defense of [Frustration Of Purpose](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Frustration_of_purpose). Namely that an unforeseen event undermined a party's principal purpose for entering into the contract, and both parties knew of this principal purpose at the time the contract was made. 

Examples of similar uses in legal history include, "... after the passage of Prohibition, when bars and taverns no longer had a reason for their leases, or during major wars, when demand for many consumer goods and services drops far below normal."

That is if the contract just requires the ISP to do what the law now requires them to do anyway, even if there were no contract. If Comcast is now legally required to do what they were contractually required to do before, than they no longer have any consideration right?  Netflix was never gifting the money to Comcast, and without consideration, I doubt Comcast can force them to keep paying it. I'm pretty sure netflix already said something to the effect of we wish we had known this was going to be voted on before giving them a bunch of money. Netflix would have lost a ton of customers if they had waited this long instead of paying Comcast and Verizon. And had more people writing to their local politician.  They played a good game, won the battle for people's minds, got the service running still, now on to the next battles. I'm sure they would be able to fight that previous agreement though?

I would guess that there was almost certainly a clause stipulating that the contract would continue even if rules like this did pass, but I'm sure Netflix would fight against that as well. &gt; So does Netflix now turn around and tell VZ/Comcast to go fuck themselves? Can they/should they/will they stop paying ISPs?

Probably not. The whole issue between Netflix and VZ/Comcast was never actually an issue with Comcast and Verizon; it was an issue with Verizon/Comcast and Level 3/Cogent, the companies that brought Netflix traffic FROM netflix datacenters TO ISPs, which then in turn brought it to you. 

To understand the situation, understand that, where your ISP meets your CDN, there are connections between the two. The issue was (and still is) who is paying for those connections. To my knowledge, Title II doesn't cover the peering arrangements that are set up. 

To be clear, this was **never throttling within the ISP network**. This was an oversaturation of peering connections between the ISP and the CDN, and disputes over how much those additional peers would cost, and who would shoulder that cost and how much of that cost.   Tom Wheeler surprised me. I thought he was going to side with cable companies, and I was wrong. And even after his declaration to support Net Neutrality, I was hesitant.

But it's done, and his speech was powerful.

We ridiculed him pretty badly but he came through, so for that, I owe him an apology for assuming he'd screw us over because of his past employment. He came around and did what's best instead of siding with cable companies.

Well done, Tom!

Edit - Woke up at 12:30 a.m. to find out this comment was gilded. Thanks alot, kind stranger! Sometimes the perspective of working with the company turns you against the company. Familiarity breeds contempt, as they say. No, sometimes *4 million complaints* turns you against the company. I'd like to see John Oliver give an apology, because this kind of behavior needs to be recognized in the media and not just by us. This kind of thing should be encouraged. I have never been more happy to be wrong about someone.

[edit]
For the record, I don't mean a heavy "I'm so sorry Wheeler!!!", more like a "Hats off to you Wheeler, you were a pleasant surprise." We (including John) have reason to be skeptical though.  John owes him less of an apology and more of an adulation.   To be fair to John though, there is significant evidence to suggest that Wheeler is in fact a Dingo. The AYES have it. FUCK COMCAST! And AT&amp;T and Verizon! And Time Warner! **Especially** Time Warner Here's [Verizon's response.](http://arstechnica.com/business/2015/02/verizon-issues-furious-response-to-fcc-in-morse-code-dated-1934)

I can already taste the tears. Haha. Eat a bag of dicks, Verizon. Verizon press release in *morse code and dated to from 1934* to emphasize how "archaic" the ruling is. Complains that they have 1^st amendment right to edit the internet, and Title II breaks it. "We have the 1st amendment right to regulate others' 1st amendment rights!" Oh, I thought it was just to show how outdated our internet is...

silly me. ayes lmao. 

edit: thanks for the gold, kind stranger! 

edit2: is this really happening? just got pm sayin im the millionaire winner for this month!!?!? thank you guys this is insane ill pay off my student debt and start a non profit for special needs children.

edit3: ok this is gettin weird tom wheeler called me to congratulate me for "fightin the good fight" and said i can pick any comcast employee i want to have beheaded. if i wasnt an atheist id think this was heaven i gotta go guys this is too much

edit4: ah false alarm guys just came down from acid trip neighbors dogs not lookin good be back with updates. 

edit5: in jail used my one call to let you guys know im ok. hopin roomie is a redditor!! &gt;Any opposed? Girugamesh &gt;Girugamesh 

Nice vintage memeing. The memes get danker with age. Does this work? If you edit your post to thank a kind stranger for gold even though you don't have gold, will someone actually give you gold? &gt; Oh shit.

-Comcast, February 26, 2015 &gt; woohoo!

- Netflix, February 26, 2015 
&gt; woohoo!

- ~~Netflix~~ Everyone, February 26, 2015
 I want to do my small part and say that I misjudged Chairman Tom Wheeler. Up until it happened, I still didn't believe that it would happen. but he voted for an open internet.     
He stood up to his former bosses and did the right thing. It would appear that, with Wheeler's appointment, President Obama has kept his 2008 campaign promise to preserve and strengthen net neutrality and keep the internet free and open. Wheeler doesn't appear to be quite the corporate shill that so many of us saw him as just months ago. I like to think Wheeler hid his true intentions until now just to fuck over ISPs for destroying his company years ago. I'm kinda okay with that Like how batman gained his wealth off the poor public and when put in a position of public defender. He steps up his game to save goth...errr... the u.s. Wasn't Bruce Wayne's wealth largely inherited? 

But yes. He also inherited the company that the family owned: Wayne Enterprises Wait, we were talking about Batman. How did this conversation steer to Bruce Wayne, the idiot playboy? Some tin hatters say they're the same person. Yeah right, could you imagine Bruce Waynes prissy, stuck up, well to do ass kicking the shit out of criminals? Pretty sure If he had a run in with the joker we'd find him dead at 3:31 in the afternoon, naked on the floor at the foot of his bed, Prescription pills scattered all around. 

 &gt; dead at 3:31 in the afternoon, naked on the floor at the foot of his bed, Prescription pills scattered all around

Is this a reference?  This sounds like a reference.
 Heath Ledger.... Dude you really don't know lol?

Bruce Wayne is not an idiot playboy.

He's a super hero. Born on krypton, capable of super speed and telekinesis and playing badass metal music.

Bruce Wayne is Gnarman. Inherited? What? Did his parent's die? First, you disguise yourself as them, then, you gain their trust, live alongside them. Then, when the hour of your time hits, you strike them down!

A classic! A sheep in wolf's clothing. Dingo's clothing* I didn't know Tom Wheeler played EVE online! A different sort of long con, where you Americans actually win for a change. America has been winning since 1776. [Removed: Nov 1955-Apr 1975] Vietnam is now a vacation hotspot. All according to plan. Which country makes shoes for the other one now? Ouch right in the sweat shops. Hey, you win by extension, too! Or it's still entirely possible he was bought out and going to do whatever they wanted until people actually did something for once and made their voices heard.

He either played a great con on them or he grew a heart. Either way, good on him If he was bought out he was going to do what he was paid to do. Money speaks louder than words. I believe this man knew what he was doing all along. I'd say it's possible someone is bought out, but then realizes how they'll go down in history and decides to change.

For once though I'm gonna just choose to see things brightly and believe he was always on our side. That would just be really nice Or the third possibility, that **he's actually an expert in the field and made a very well and reasoned policy decision backed by years of experience.**

But no let's pretend there's some weird conspiracy or something. How did his years of experience and expertise play out when he proposed internet fast-lanes last year? I hated that proposal but he could very well have been operating with a different understanding of the political realities of the time. If there wasn't so much of a public outcry by both citizens and companies for strong net neutrality rules he would be getting absolutely crucified right now. I can see how that could influence things. 

That's simply speculation as I don't know what his reasoning was for his position at that time. But I also don't think it inherently means there was some sort of industry conspiracy. That's not something I find unbelievable but I don't like assuming that it happened without evidence for it.  I think some people in politics actually do want to make a difference and aren't in for themselves, and as he saw public reaction maybe he realized he was on the wrong side.

It's okay to believe in human beings, guys. Maybe he'll let us down eventually, but fuck it if I'm gonna be cynical about an actual goddamn win for once. I really would like more details on this. http://arstechnica.com/business/2015/02/why-the-ex-cable-lobbyist-running-the-fcc-turned-against-his-old-clients/ Wow.  This belongs in /r/JusticePorn. Next up, we need to make sure the TPP doesn't get passed, or even fast-tracked. It's still technically being discussed in secret, but leaks have shown that it could be worse than SOPA or PIPA! It could effectively undo a decent portion of what the FCC has just done here. It's a different job. He worked for an ISP before, and was acting in what was his best interest at the time regardless of any personal beliefs he may have held. Gotta do what you gotta do.

To draw an analogy - I'm a fan of the Pittsburgh Pirates baseball team. Their CEO, Frank Coonelly, formerly held a job with Major League Baseball where his duty was essentially to browbeat teams into not spending a lot of money on draft picks. Because of this, fans of the team worried that when he became CEO of the Pirates he would stick firmly to MLB's "draft slot recommendations" and draft the most signable players, as opposed to the best ones.

What actually happened is that he drafted the best player available every time, and spent so much above MLB's recommendation that MLB instituted hard caps because he was "breaking the draft." His job duties when he worked for MLB entailed very different things than his job duties as CEO of the Pirates. The same kind of thing is true of Wheeler. His job duties as a lobbyist for Comcast are very different from his duties as FCC chair. I really don't understand why people thought he had some lifelong blood oath to his former employers. At the end of the day, a job is just a job and you act in the best interest of your current employer. Would you really take a job elsewhere only to undermime for current employer for a former one? That'd be career suicide. Thanks, Obama! Nope. Can't make that joke anymore. Not a joke today. Yea, Comcast sure isn't laughing. I guess I can officially retract all of those negative statements about the man now. Damn this is exciting to hear. No regrets. The people's critique early on helped lead to this day. That is a very true point. If there had not been the gigantic outcry of 4mil+ people, we may not be having this news today.
 &gt; *THE INTERNET -- THE INTERNET IS THE MOST POWERFUL AND PERVASIVE PLATFORM ON THE PLANET. IT'S SIMPLY TOO IMPORTANT TO BE LEFT WITHOUT RULES AND WITHOUT A REFEREE ON THE FIELD. THINK ABOUT IT. THE INTERNET HAS REPLACED THE FUNCTIONS OF THE TELEPHONE AND THE POST OFFICE. THE INTERNET HAS REDEFINED COMMERCE, AND AS THE OUTPOURING FROM 4 MILLION AMERICANS HAS DEMONSTRATED, THE INTERNET IS THE ULTIMATE VEHICLE FOR FREE EXPRESSION. THE INTERNET IS SIMPLY TOO IMPORTANT TO ALLOW BROADBAND PROVIDERS TO BE THE ONES MAKING THE RULES. [APPLAUSE] SO LET'S ADDRESS AN IMPORTANT ISSUE HEAD-ON. THIS PROPOSAL HAS BEEN DESCRIBED BY ONE OPPONENT AS, QUOTE, A SECRET PLAN TO REGULATE THE INTERNET. NONSENSE! THIS IS NO MORE A PLAN TO REGULATE THE INTERNET THAN THE FIRST AMENDMENT IS A PLAN TO REGULATE FREE SPEECH. [APPLAUSE] THEY BOTH STAND FOR THE SAME CONCEPT: OPENNESS, EXPRESSION, AND AN ABSENCE OF GATE KEEPERS TELLING PEOPLE WHAT THEY CAN DO, WHERE THEY CAN GO AND WHAT THEY CAN THINK. THE ACTION THAT WE TAKE TODAY IS ABOUT THE PROTECTION OF INTERNET OPENNESS.*
&gt; 

-Tom Wheeler, February 26, 2015

[Thanks to /u/funnyunsgood we have the YouTube version](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vfVR0C2HHSI)

 (he wasn't actually shouting this, it's just the format the closed captioning was in.) I STILL CAN'T STOP READING IT AS SHOUTING HI, BILLY MAYS HERE WITH NET NEUTRALITY! I needed that thank you Before everyone goes crazy (myself included) over this, there must be a balance. You cannot expect the telecom companies to just accept this and move on. They will likely sue the hell out of this in court. I'm wondering if this is just to soften the incoming (and likely) Comcast &amp; Time Warner merger. From the article:

&gt;Don't expect the net neutrality drama to end here, though. Verizon has already made vague threats about suing the agency if it went through the public utility route, and Wheeler expects other lawsuits as well.

Yep, sure sounds like it. Basically, the only true winners are the lawyers. 
 There is also the horrifyingly real possibility that Congress will intervene, which they quite clearly have the power to do here.  All it would take is a law stating "The Federal Communications Commission shall not classify broadband as a utility under Title II" and boom, progress gone. But the President would then veto that law, and the Congress at this time does not have the majority required to overrule said veto. Sure, if Congress passes that law while Obama is in office. ... well shit. That's a solid point. Its only as solid of a point as realizing that any congress may pass any shitty law that may not get vetoed by another President. Now if the FCC would just release the full specs of the proposal that they just approved... I can't wait until Comcast and AT&amp;T see Verizon in a dark alley.   Good. I thought he actually screamed APPLAUSE to everybody. I read it in Samuel L. Jackson's angry Pulp Fiction voice, so I'm gonna pretend you didn't say this. SAY "REGULATE" ONE MORE TIME. I DARE YOU. True, but he definitely appeared passionate about that speech. The eloquence and persuasiveness he must have used to make him so successful as a lobbyist were definitely on display today. He did actually shout the "nonsense!" part. &gt;*GOOD MORNING. IN LESS THAN AN HOUR, AIRCRAFT FROM HERE WILL JOIN OTHERS FROM AROUND THE WORLD. AND YOU WILL BE LAUNCHING THE LARGEST AERIAL BATTLE IN THE HISTORY OF MANKIND. "MANKIND." THAT WORD SHOULD HAVE NEW MEANING FOR ALL OF US TODAY. WE CAN'T BE CONSUMED BY OUR PETTY DIFFERENCES ANYMORE. WE WILL BE UNITED IN OUR COMMON INTERESTS. PERHAPS IT'S FATE THAT TODAY IS THE FOURTH OF JULY, AND YOU WILL ONCE AGAIN BE FIGHTING FOR OUR FREEDOM... NOT FROM TYRANNY, OPPRESSION, OR PERSECUTION... BUT FROM ANNIHILATION. WE ARE FIGHTING FOR OUR RIGHT TO LIVE. TO EXIST. AND SHOULD WE WIN THE DAY, THE FOURTH OF JULY WILL NO LONGER BE KNOWN AS AN AMERICAN HOLIDAY, BUT AS THE DAY THE WORLD DECLARED IN ONE VOICE: "WE WILL NOT GO QUIETLY INTO THE NIGHT!" WE WILL NOT VANISH WITHOUT A FIGHT! WE'RE GOING TO LIVE ON! WE'RE GOING TO SURVIVE! TODAY WE CELEBRATE OUR INDEPENDENCE DAY!* This speech still to this day gives me tingles down my back. Such a good moment in the movie. Tom Wheeler is now less hated by the USA some people may even like him now. I was going to say, wasn't he all about keeping it unregulated and he was pretty much Hitler like a year ago?  No the FCC was sued by Verizon, and he was trying to work within his new rules. This change gives him new new rules.  Wheeler did a pretty abrupt 180 last fall from his initial stance. Some of the ideas he was originally throwing around were downright scary. Reddit* I will let this Dingo babysit my future babies for that great speech.

Actually, I won't, but I hope you guys get my point I actually got chills hearing this, and again reading it.  Words can't express how important an issue this was, and I am so happy to see corporations getting fucked over for once instead of the people. &gt;  an issue this ~~was~~ is

This issue hasn't gone away yet.  There are lawsuits are being filed as we speak to take the rules down.  Assuming those fail, the FCC still needs to figure out how to implement these rules.  There will still be massive lobbying pressure from corporations to get the new rules to work in their favor. People can't stop paying attention to this issue.
 Remember in City Slickers when Billy Crystal said, "Hey, Curly, kill anyone today?" and Curly said, "Day ain't over yet." 
It's a lot like that. &gt; THE OUTPOURING FROM 4 MILLION AMERICANS

I little disappointed it was only 4 Million.  I wonder if that's after comcast-miscounts were removed. We don't know exactly what this was a measurement of. People who called the FCC? People who signed an internet petition? We don't know. Also, on the grand scale, 4 million is a lot. VERY few issues see numbers even remotely close to that size. I can't believe he delivered. OP did good today. The person that he was referring to was so infuriating. He was talking about how people will no longer have the freedom to choose a new ISP if the small ones are forced out of business. Like we already have bountiful choices to what ISP we get to use. As he read, word for word, from his Comcast-written script. What a shill. &gt; &gt; The internet -- the internet is the most powerful and pervasive platform on the planet. It's simply too important to be left without rules and without a referee on the field. Think about it. The internet has replaced the functions of the telephone and the post office. The internet has redefined commerce, and as the outpouring from 4 million americans has demonstrated, the internet is the ultimate vehicle for free expression. The internet is simply too important to allow broadband providers to be the ones making the rules. [applause] so let's address an important issue head-on. This proposal has been described by one opponent as, quote, a secret plan to regulate the internet. Nonsense! This is no more a plan to regulate the internet than the first amendment is a plan to regulate free speech. [applause] they both stand for the same concept: openness, expression, and an absence of gate keepers telling people what they can do, where they can go and what they can think. The action that we take today is about the protection of internet openness.

&gt; -Tom Wheeler, February 26, 2015


Fixed for readability. 
EDIT: Aww, I wish I got guilded. :( I left it in this format on purpose in order to preserve his indignation of the status quo. Also the euphoria factor. That's fine.  I just figured I'd post a sentence case version for people like me who can't read long blocks of all caps. My eyes just can't seem to focus when it's all caps. I want them to regulate the pipes, not it's content.  
As long as they leave the content alone, it's all fine by me. This was a good ruling for us but this is only the beginning. The people need to stay on top of this issue for the months/years to come if we want to make sure net neutrality survives.

Edit: My first ever gold! Thank you so much! This is what people forget.  Making the rules is one thing.  Now there are going to be legal challenges to them.  If/when those fail, the FCC still needs to implement the rules.  They will have to try new approaches, fail at some, succeed at others. Just like any other regulatory process.  This isn't an instant fix, but it's a good start. Not to mention that the two Republican FCC commissioners voted and railed against reclassification and voted against the overturning of state laws that restrict municipal broadband.  It was a 3-2 vote, meaning that if Republican wins the Presidency and the FCC has 3 Republicans instead of 3 Democrats, then they could easily overturn all of these rulings.  Elections will matter in making sure this survives, along with court battles, continued lobbying, enforcement, and all the rest. &gt; Elections will matter

Hopefully this message gets through to some of Reddit. Most of what I see on topics like this are "both sides are the same, everything is corrupt, my vote doesn't count so why bother" etc etc. If a Republican wins the White House in 2016, Net Neutrality will almost certainly be overturned. If a Democrat does, it's likely Net Neutrality survives. Elections matter. If anything, this should show the naysayers that their voice CAN be heard. Every vote counts. As well as Marijuana legalization and ACA.  Here's the man talking about the important things.  You mean **HIPPIES** and **OBAMACARE!?!?!**

*[trickle-down intensifies]* I completely agree. This is a BIG step, but please don't be fooled. This is not over. Time Warner and Comcast still have a huge monopoly here and I hate to say it... but more can be done. Opponents like Time Warner and Comcast argue that net neutrality warrants "unprecedented government micromanagement of all aspects of the Internet economy." Which, again, I hate to say but maybe needed in this situation.

The internet is no longer a luxury, it is an essential component to standard living, times have changed and so must the providers. "OP DELIVERS"

-Tom Wheeler "I AM NOT A DINGO"
- Tom Wheeler Suck my dick, Comcast.

Hey Comcast, suck my dick. Not Comcast, but happy to step in here ;) you know that famous picture of the sailor and the woman kissing in the streets after the announcement that WWII is over? I'm imagining this is the modern day equivalent. "THIS IS NO MORE A PLAN TO REGULATE THE INTERNET THAN THE FIRST AMENDMENT IS A PLAN TO REGULATE FREE SPEECH."

Tom Wheeler, right before he slammed the gavel down on corporate shills looking to stifle competition.

EDIT: Thanks for the Gold! I was going to say Wheeler deserves the gold, not me, but that'd be some questionable lobbying practices there!  That line was amazing. He was dead-on the entire time, I was loving every minute of it. I just got the most /r/MURICA  boner from that line. It sums everything up so well. My /r/Murica Justice boner is now getting maximum 4G LTE signal with unlimited data! *gavel drop* It's okay. He won the Internet today. As a Canadian watching from the sidelines (because well, what's good for the goose and all that), I'd just like to say congratulations guys.

The number of times Wheeler repeated that '4 million Americans' note, it must feel pretty good to know that the people helped turn the tide this time. As a fellow Canadian, this is an incredibly monumental day. It *cannot* be overstated how important this decision is for the entire internet, not just US citizens. I must say the fact so many took the time to speak out on this issue was heartening.  Seeing this sense of civic duty has restored some of the faith lost in the cases it was absent.   And yet this week, our Parliment is going to cote on the new Candian verion of the Partiot Act, and it does not appear they even care hoiw much we scream.

In fact, they have been taking polls at in opportune times to prove there point that it is supported by the majority of Canadians.

Good for you FCC, fuck you Harper. Hey Harper, fuck you. I want to thank Verizon for making all this possible. Hope this can last thought the court challenges. If the Supreme Court overturns this, they'll be the most hated court in history.  Hell, they've already overturned a century of campaign finance laws, and ruled that police can pull you over even if you haven't broken a law.  Source on police can pull you over without breaking a law? I understand they need to have probable cause.

Edit: [I found it](http://m.watchdog.org/?url=http%3A%2F%2Fwatchdog.org%2F188650%2Fcops%2F#2773). Heien v. North Carolina. Police can pull you over if they believe you have broken the law even if that's not the law. The level of "reasonable" is still pretty high. They basically pulled someone over because she had a broken tail light but that's not illegal because she had one working one (which is NC law). Resulting search turned up cocaine. Big problem with having a double standard, though. Obviously, in all cases, if a police officer thinks you're breaking the law, he'll stop you. This just changes whether you can turn around and say that some other thing he ends up charging you for can be charged (since, obviously, he can't get you for just having one broken tail light).

If they can't overturn this, they could just have an educational brigade about the law so officers can no longer misunderstand the law and use this to their advantage lol It said if the cop acted in good faith that he believed a law was broken, but it later turned out that the law wasn't broken, the search wasn't invalidated.

Basically a cop stopped someone for having a brake light out, but the state law turned out to require only one working brake light. A reasonable person would've believed the law to require all working brake lights and not just a single brake light. This was pretty much only accepted because there had been no previous challenges to the brake light law.

It's also one of those rulings that has an incredibly narrow scope but everyone on reddit interprets it as broadly as humanly possible. What a strange law. A single working taillight is still unsafe; in many car designs it looks like you just turned on your blinker. What's the catch? Thanks Obama.  Realistically though, this probably is all because he came out in full support of an open internet a month or so ago. &gt; this probably is all because he came out in full support of an open internet a month or so ago.

Am I the only one here that remembers this issue before it become Reddit's pet project? Obama was in support of net neutrality from the beginning and the FCC pushed for it as far back as 2010.  Obama pledged support for Net Neutrality [during his 2008 campaign](http://www.politifact.com/truth-o-meter/promises/obameter/promise/510/support-network-neutrality-on-the-internet/). This is a historic day that our children will take for granted but we will all remember! Billy, I had to watch this Dexter finale in 480p back in my day due to being throttled. It was awful... I mean the finale was terrible. Not being able to tell what was happening onscreen was probably to my benefit. Unfortunately you have to live with the mistakes we made and watch in 4K HD. I'm so sorry. If there's on thing that needs to be throttled, it's the last season of dexter. I hope people can barely get it in 240p Wow. Take that Big Business!

People - 1  
Large Corporations - 62,593,287 NOBODY HAS EVER BEATEN US 62,593,288 IN A ROW!! Ultimate comeback story! Here's a video of Tom Wheeler's speech, for anyone who would like to watch him talking.

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MlGIuosxMv4 Is throttling finally over or do ISPs have anything else up their sleeves? They are bringing out their nicest lawsuits and are gearing up to sue the mess out of the FCC and anyone else who stands in their way. And for some reason there will be Americans in support of the ISP's, even though any money won or laws changed would not be in their interests. Because lobbyists are scaring Mom/Dad and Grandma/Grandpa into thinking this is a bad thing by blatantly lying about how it impact their TV and Phone usage.

It's the biggest mess because ISPs are raking in profits by exploiting customers with things like Data Caps, Throttling, Peering Agreements, etc... but the fact is Data Caps and Throttling are the result of ISPs realizing that they can make more money from these practices at little to no cost to their operation. They don't want that exploitation taken away from them so now the ISPs have to convince people that's what they want, by any means necessary. 

But I'm sure I'm preaching to the choir here. If you read some of the fox news comments, and other stuff, people seem to have it mixed up. The lobbyists have convinced millions that net neutrality will result in less competition, worse service, higher prices, and "billions in new taxes!" 

what the fuck? Those are the exact things Net Neutrality is supposed to prevent, lol. From Tom Wheeler's discourse before the vote:

"This is the FCC using all the tools in our toolbox to protect innovators and consumers to ban paid prioritization, the so called fast lane, they will not divide the internet into haves and have-nots, to ban blocking, consumers will get what they pay for, unfetterd access to any lawful content on the internet, and to ban throttling. Because degrading access to legal content and services can have the same effect as blocking, and it will not be permitted to exist." Does anyone mind entering into discourse with me about whether this gives the government more teeth to declare whatever they want to be "unlawful content"? 

The conservatives have been crying about how this is the government censoring the internet (because that's how the Republicans get their sheep riled up) and I'm wondering if there can be any semblence of the government having greater authority to ban things (like raw, consensual porn)? It should be over, but.. who knows what courts will do. "accidental" disconnects, breach of contracts, false accusations of sites you visit Does this mean we can talk about robots and shit now? [deleted] &gt;The FCC says it won't apply some sections of Title II, including price controls. **That means rates charged to customers for Internet access won't be subject to preapproval.** But the law allows the government to investigate if consumers complain that costs are unfair.

http://apnews.myway.com/article/20150226/us--net_neutrality-bc904be3f5.html
 I'm a bit slow here. Is this a good thing, because I remember Reddit getting up in arms about SOPA and bills like that? I'm so skeptical from years of betrayal, why can't I just be happy ;-; Do we have a link to the full text of the rules anywhere?  Yeah we're all jizzing all over our keyboards right now and we haven't even seen the fine print yet.  The last sentence reads:"jk lol this ruling will allow Comcast to absorb all the other ISPs." Actually they're not releasing the 332 page bill to the public, which worries the fuck out of me. This is my question: **Broadband** as a utility. Didn't Obama (or Wheeler) set the requirement for broadband to be like 25mb/s or higher? So as long as its 24.9mb/s&lt; and isn't being advertised as broadband, would this ruling still apply?

I could be mistaken on the 25mb/s requirement, but I can't remember and I'm currently at work so I can't dig up the ruling (if there even was one) It classifies the ISPs that provide the internet as Title II common carriers. Think of the internet now being in the same regulatory category as telephones (which are also Title II common carriers).

ISPs have been able to qualify for federal subsidies for broadband internet deployments. The term "broadband" is partially defined by the speed, which has now been raised to 24Mbps down and 3Mbps up. This does nothing to change the speeds of "high speed internet" offered by ISPs, only what is viewed as "broadband" in the eyes of the government. Fuck yes, fuck the corporations and fuck the telecom industry.  Big win for the people today, lets just hope it stands up. As an american who is so used to getting fucked over in the long run, im just sitting her thinking, whats the catch? Everyone is cheering because we got a present, but no one has opened it up and taken a look at what's in there. When do we get to see the 332-page Internet regulation plan that has been kept from public comment? What is actually in there?  
edit - closest I've found so far [link](http://www.fcc.gov/document/fcc-adopts-strong-sustainable-rules-protect-open-internet) it hasn't been kept from public comment, the public comment period is coming up later, this is a vote on whether this should be the form it takes to go into public comment, then after the comment period there will be a vote as to whether it becomes policy.  And let's wait for the EFF's saying on this. Regulation is good, but what we really need is competition - real competition - from DOZENS of independent providers. Proper competition will prevent many regulatory issues from occurring in the first place, making the FCC's job simpler, and keeping courts out of the market as much as possible.

For that to happen, Congress needs to nut up and declare wireless and wired deployments part of the national infrastructure. Our taxes can pay for it like they pays for roads. Anyone can lease the lines and maybe some wireless spectrum (this is challenging, as basic physics limit wireless access).

Once we separate ISPs from the responsibility of deploying and maintaining the physical broadcast infrastructure, we can start to see real competition again. Part of Title II is line sharing. So companies like Google Fiber can use the same infrastructure existing that AT&amp;T/Verizon/Time-Warner/Comcast own. That means the poles/underground pipes for their own fiber and using the wiring from the pole to the house. So it opens up competition the same way that it was opened for long distance carriers in the 80s. &gt;Part of Title II is line sharing.

Unfortunately Wheeler wasn't in favor of it and [barred](http://www.fcc.gov/document/fcc-adopts-strong-sustainable-rules-protect-open-internet) it from happening.  
"The Order forbears from applying utility-style rate regulation, including rate regulation or tariffs, *last-mile unbundling*, and burdensome administrative filing requirements or accounting standards."

Having net-neutrality is great but like the healthcare bill it's not as good as it could be so the U.S. is unlikely to see much in the way of more competition or faster access to the internet as a result. I guess the best bet for that would still be google's further expansion into the market. Well fuckberries... While this a bummer there had to be baby steps so that Comcast wouldn't lose their minds over the infrastructure they purchased and installed. 

My understanding is that Title 2 allows for easier access to the poles so Google Fiber can get your house easier than digging a trench and installing new lines, what it does prevent however, is getting that fiber from your pole to your house, that still requires installation but maybe not the $300 that was required for Google.

It's progress none the less.  Yeah line sharing was one of the things I was hoping for because it would allow anyone to buy the lanes at wholesale and sell them back to the customer... but on the other hand I can understand barring it because the companies did spend the money to get the connection to your house as well as all other connections, so they own those. Someone else want your connection? Well then they gotta play ball too.

One thing I still can't pinpoint is I thought I heard somewhere that current legislation blocks people from reaching some homes in effect you can't choose your provider and your stuck with what you got and that there was something in the new legislation to allows anyone to make a connection to your home. &gt; Part of Title II is line sharing. So companies like Google Fiber can use the same infrastructure existing that AT&amp;T/Verizon/Time-Warner/Comcast own. That means the poles/underground pipes for their own fiber and using the wiring from the pole to the house. So it opens up competition the same way that it was opened for long distance carriers in the 80s.

Line sharing was explicitly excluded from the list of provisions of Title II that are applied.

It does however enable fair access to poles and conduits.
 Yes, it still allows fair access to the same routes, such as poles or underground channels that fiber/copper has been deployed. This is still a big thing. The many roadblocks set up were far more costly than running new fiber, especially when dealing with the state/local level. So, there's still a lot of optimism that startup companies will just decide to create their own ISP, lay the fiber, and start competing. I know that still requires way more startup than unbundling would have, but its a good halfway point to start out at. Pretty sure this version doesn't include line sharing, unless it was changed since I heard &gt; Regulation is good, but what we really need is competition - real competition - from DOZENS of independent providers. Proper competition will prevent many regulatory issues from occurring in the first place, making the FCC's job simpler, and keeping courts out of the market as much as possible.

Yeah, I'm very thankful for the TPIA options here in Canada. It's not perfect- the big ISPs can price the plans whatever, and they can drag their ass on TPIA line repairs- but still, it's a nice alternative to paying the big ISPs a bundle for the internet plans. I feel as though the places that have no broadband competition don't have that because of government BS/deal cutting in the first place which lead to monopolies. I live in the boonies and have a few options for broadband. Not crazy speed, but I don't expect that living in the wilderness where I do. But my Netflix always works. &gt;  DOZENS of independent providers.

Which title II absolutely kills any hope of. &gt; Our taxes

Well [less than 50% of Americans](http://money.howstuffworks.com/only-53-percent-pay-income-tax.htm) actually pay federal income taxes.  So *our* is generous.

It used to be roads were paid for by the gas tax but hasn't been true in a while.  But it sounds like you are suggesting an "internet tax" to build the infrastructure.  This is also a regressive tax since the poor pay a larger percentage of the tax.

 I don't think outraged conservatives understand that the status quo was textbook crony capitalism.

I understand the urge to resist new rules and more government power.  But what we had wasnt exactly a free market fantasy.  It was public cost and private gains, and rules prohibiting competition.  Kind of like the current medical insurance market. &gt;I don't think outraged conservatives understand that the status quo was textbook crony capitalism.
I understand the urge to resist new rules and more government power. But what we had wasnt exactly a free market fantasy.

Yeah I got a crazy strong feeling of this. It was almost as if they played blind to just how bad the current system is and acted like it was working oh so splendidly when in reality is was the perfect time to enact new rules because things were just beginning to get real bad.

With Verizon trying to get around net neutrality. Quest charging 30 dollars to opt out of data mining which even paying that fee doesn't opt you out of all data mining. Hardline connections holding a practical monopoly. New "fees" are being added every day to jack up the prices of already unreasonably expensive internet. AT&amp;T misleading customers with their "unlimited" that wasn't unlimited at all and then proceeding to threaten the FCC. Comcast customer support changing customer names to derogatory terms. Comcast fraudulently charging equipment return fees for equipment that has been returned as well as countless other billing "mistakes" if you can even call them that at this point. Even Time Warner has began giving derogatory names to its customers. The signs of things going down south and fast are all there. Dear cable companies: you did this, if you hadn't been outright hostile to your consumers, had customer service so indifferent and price gouged so heavily, then the public wouldn't have called out in record numbers for the government to stop you.

Just remember before you fight back too hard: rate caps and unbundling are still on the table if you want to make us go there. You know, while i appreciate the sentiment, I don't really think that's true.  I think it was inevitable.  Truly valuable infrastructure becomes public infrastructure.  You could say that electric service isn't a basic service, or that it's a luxury, but no one would take you seriously.  The same is true of the internet.  In 100 years, your great grand-kids will sit with wide eyes listening when you tell them there was ever a time when the internet wasn't considered a basic service of public infrastructure. Perhaps but without Comcast causing levels of rage in people normally reserved for war criminals this would have snuck under the radar.

It's the fact that consumers feel utterly stuck and abused that got millions of people to write, call, and personally meet their lawmakers and bombard the FCC with letters , and what would have been a footnote in an industry trade magazine became one of the hottest political issues of our generation. You're not wrong.  Their greed certainly hastened the result.  Maybe they could've "milked the cow" for a couple more years.  But basically, the internet has become too critical to our modern lives to be left in the hands of private interests.   it's my birthday today. I got net neutrality for my birthday. that's amazing I'm just hoping that there isn't anything "sneaky" going on. We know how the government works. My optimism for this plan stems from "The FCC is an independent agency" whose mission is "make available so far as possible, to all the people of the United States, without discrimination on the basis of race, color, religion, national origin, or sex, rapid, efficient, Nation-wide, and world-wide wire and radio communication services with adequate facilities at reasonable charges."

Unlike the government doesn't get to the position by advertising their name; selling themselves to companies in order to get into a position of power which has no limit to how many years they can stick around giving support to whoever gives them the most money.

I mean seriously, bought from the outset using a large sum of money to be advertised into power giving whoever bought them large influence from the offset, and then further corruption by freely accepting money for votes on legislation it just breeds corruption. Why do conservatives think this is about censorship? Seriously, it's allll over Facebook, and my relatives are sharing the posts. I don't understand how they could believe that. It's quite literally apples and like... ostriches. It's actually the OPPOSITE. It PREVENTS censorship of websites by ISPs through throttling and the like. So what happens when they decide, much like tv, what is and is not considered "obscene" on the Internet?  You can't see nudity on NBC today (or many other channels).  What if they start to regulate content that sites in the US can provide like they regulate content on TV and radio?  What happens when they start requiring licensing for starting and running a website?  Maybe it will not be onerous.  What if it is? Uhh... you do realize TV shows CAN SHOW NUDITY. The government has NOT outlawed nudity on cable TV, it's just most don't show it because advertisers will get pissy. I mean at least do a bit of research before spouting an asinine opinion. Uh... they threaten a station's license... but sure, just continue your circle-jerk idiot.  Advertisers, LOL. &gt; Cable television, on the other hand, is not bound by FCC rules and can show whatever material their executives consider suitable. While cable channels that rely on advertising still do not show nudity during primetime hours, nudity is often shown on premium cable channels such as Showtime and HBO.

http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nudity_in_American_television#Current_status tysonzero is an idiot.  Just read his comment history.  He's probably just a kid.....god I hope an adult is not this stupid. How incredibly ironic that you say such a thing. Seeing as everyone seems to disagree with your take on the issue:

http://www.reddit.com/r/technology/comments/2x97c6/fcc_approves_net_neutrality_rules_reclassifies/coyb6zl

http://www.reddit.com/r/technology/comments/2x97c6/fcc_approves_net_neutrality_rules_reclassifies/coygo4a

Maybe because your take is asinine?

I'm guessing your calling me an idiot just because I am liberal? Totally unrelated issue. You are stupid. Because their republican ideological heads tell them so.  It's FUD; just like deathpanels, skyrocketing heathcare bills, and all the other fear based tactics that have been rolled out time and time again.

Fear - Uncertainty - Doubt.
Keep rolling it out. Conservatives are wrong about everything. This is just one instance where you are informed enough to realize it. So the FCC doesn't censor TV and radio?

They went nuclear over Janet Jackson's boob ..

 Only broadcast tv and radio. If you need a subscription to view it, then no. Call me pessimistic but I wonder what the downside is.  Remember the Patriot Act?  

I just don't trust the government to give people more freedom when past performance has proven otherwise. taxes, regulations, censorship, higher prices Can you elaborate? (Serious question.) I'd like to understand more. Taxes cannot be applied due to the tax information freedom act, regulations are TBD but Wheeler gave the statement that "This is no more a plan to regulate the Internet than the First Amendment is a plan to regulate free speech." Censorship in regards to legal content is being specifically barred. Prices are currently at the discretion of internet providers as is and the only notice of pricing that was discussed so far was complaints of unreasonable pricing can be brought before the FCC.

I am hopeful but like the rest of you we'll need access to the full document come the public comment period so we can fully understand what is in store and make our voices whether in support, dissent, or modification.

Truly the biggest concern is possibly the most important security as well. The double edged sword that is FCC saying "we will referee what the industry can and can not do" so their methods of trying to squeeze money out of customers using ludicrous methods can be thwarted on the fly. Although on the flipside the alternative is them standing by and saying they have no authority on a matter as were getting screwed because they didn't foresee an event... Honestly as far as I can tell the way he worded it, it just doesn't sound like it can go bad for the consumer. The outcomes seem to be stop the industry from doing anything malicious, and if interconnection/consumer costs are unreasonable they can be brought before the FCC.

In a broad scope everything is great, just need to make sure it holds up once we can pull out the magnifying glass. You thought the Patriot act was a good thing when it was passed?  Many did.  About as many as do this. Well, maybe its because I'm not American, but when I heard what the Patriot Act was I couldn't imagine it being interpreted as anything other than a massive breach of the human right to privacy. I see your point though.  Just wait until this is bent to stop illegal downloads, porn, or political speech. I would love to see how a ruling that only affects what ISPs can do could be used to censor what internet users themselves do. 

Its like if the Government passed a bill saying milk producers cant sell poisonous milk and then saying "oh great, more regulation. Just wait till they twist this to arrest people for drinking milk". I'm all for skepticism and criticism towards the Government, but the idea that this ruling about internet *service* gives any power to the Government to restrict internet *use* is absurd.  And the Affordable Care Act was going to lower insurance costs... So cute how you trust the government really? I remember my whole household was vehemently against it, I suppose we were completely against Iraq as well. That's nice. Your memory isn't very good when it comes to the rest of the nation though.

Look up the polling data. Pretty much this That's a pretty narrow view of both freedom and the past.  The 'free speech' regulation in Wheeler's speech is a pretty good example of the government being the only tool in protecting our freedoms, but there are countless examples since -- you might lament the FDA, for instance, for regulating business practices and therefore driving costs up, but I'm happy that my freedom to eat hot dogs that don't have rat turds and human parts ground into them is secured by that regulation. &gt; freedom to eat hot dogs that don't have rat turds and human parts ground into them is secured by that regulation.

You were ALWAYS free to do that. Not if all hotdogs were manufactured in those conditions. Make your own hotdogs, then.  The point is that you're willing to pay a little more for a freedom that you already had.  That was the point of /u/gbimmer's "mistaking freedom for safety" comment.  

I'm in favor of stopping Comcast's ability to decide who gets fast internet and who doesn't. However, I, like /u/gbimmer, am worried about the long lasting effects of this legislation.  Have we been able to actually read the legislation yet?  Last I heard, it was suppressed under a gag order.

Sidenote:  There's still nothing physically stopping hot dog manufacturers from putting rat turds and human parts into their food.  Only the threat of legal action.  Would you know if your next hotdog was actually made of human kidneys?

**edit:** "threat", not "thread" Except that's total bullshit, especially in the context of the broadband reclassification.  You can't just make your own hotdogs, and choosing not to eat them is non-viable in America at large.  Someone has to step in and regulate things for the greater good, and that someone is by and large the government.  Fear mongering the Patriot Act as some sort of example of "government regulation" is extremely disingenuous to the point of suggesting an agenda.  It's not even the same government!

Sidenote:  There's nothing physically stopping someone from taking an axe to my skull, but thankfully threat of legal action is usually enough to deter people from going around murdering swathes of people on a whim, if we're being equally obtuse here. Alright.

1.  You brought up the hotdog analogy.  I'm aware that ISPs aren't hotdogs.  You had said you were happy to pay a little more for the freedom to eat hotdogs without rat turds, /u/gbimmer accused you of confusing freedom with safety, and I was agreeing with him.  You've always had the freedom to eat those hotdogs, but you were happy to pay for the security of regulated hotdog production.  

2.  The reason I suggested "make your own hotdogs" was because you implied that all hotdog manufacturers were using rat turds and body parts.  That's not true, and it's not true that all ISPs are screwing their customers.  My Internet is just fine as it is.  

3.  I never mentioned the Patriot Act.  

4. (I'm aware this is a side conversation) Re: axe-to-skull -- That's sort of my point.  There is a threat of legal action to deter people from murdering other people.  Yet people still commit murder.  Are you sure that no hotdog manufacturer is putting human flesh into their product?  To scale down the ridiculousness a bit (or, to be less 'obtuse'), are you sure that no hotdog manufacturers are using rotten meat, or even meat from less-than-desirable animals (cats, dogs, mice)?

Now I'm arguing on the Internet, which is retarded. &gt; You had said you were happy to pay a little more for the freedom to eat hotdogs without rat turds

I never said I wanted to pay anything to eat safe hotdogs, I said I'm glad that regulation has lead to an era where I can be secure in the knowledge that I am.  More regulation does not necessarily equal a loss of freedom, which is the logical error you two seem to be making here (in fact in a lot of cases more regulation leads to more freedom, e.g. we're not all working 84 hour weeks in Carnegie's steel mills anymore because OT laws exist).

&gt; My Internet is just fine as it is.

Nationally speaking, this is not true.  Technologically speaking, it's absurd.  Argumentatively speaking, I'm 99% sure you'd switch to Google Fiber given the opportunity, and 100% sure that your provider would increase its speeds at even the mention of Google Fiber hitting your city.

&gt; Are you sure that no hotdog manufacturer is putting human flesh into their product? To scale down the ridiculousness a bit (or, to be less 'obtuse'), are you sure that no hotdog manufacturers are using rotten meat, or even meat from less-than-desirable animals (cats, dogs, mice)?

CAN I REALLY BE SURE?  No, I'm not on the factory floor packing the shit so I can't really be sure, but I can be reasonably sure that my shit is safe thanks to FDA regulations.  Yes things still slip through the cracks, and yes more and different regulations may be required in the future as our understanding of food, science, and humanity in general broadens and deepens.  I'm not sure how that means that regulation is ineffective, however. You're making a classic mistake of confusing freedom for safety. Not really, and especially not in the context of FCC broadband regulation that's specifically designed to keep controlling interests' power checked. ...for now... Of course for now, everything is 'for now' and subject to change. This is great nows. Now to wait out all of the incoming lawsuits and hope this ruling doesnt get neutered or overturned completely.  Now ban bandwidth caps.  ban bandwidth caps. do it do it do it do it. Are they going to cap my bandwidth even more? :( I just went to a nicely kept store and bought 2 grams of marijuana for sixteen dollars, now I come home to this. 

I love positive change.  Here's to a free and open internet, the most valuable resource in the world. &gt; a free and open internet

with FCC regulation. May it rest in peace. Good job, Fox News, you got your zinger in, now get the fuck out. We did it!!! The government is finally regulating the internet!!! [Verizon released this statement](http://arstechnica.com/business/2015/02/verizon-issues-furious-response-to-fcc-in-morse-code-dated-1934/), in fucking *morse code*. Holy fuck they are being pedantic crybabies. Not only did they publish it in morse code, the [actual press release it links to](http://publicpolicy.verizon.com/assets/docs/VZ_NR_--_2-26-15_VZ_Statement_on_Open_Internet_Order_FINAL_1.pdf) is made to look like an old typewriter document (note every same letter has the same artifacts). They're even pandering to the uninformed masses with lame pop culture references:
&gt;"FCC's *throwback thursday* move imposes 1930s rules on the internet"

as if the internet or anything even remotely like it had been conceived in the 30s, or as if thats even a relevant argument to make.

&gt;What has been and will remain constant before, during and after
the existence of any regulations is Verizons commitment to an open Internet that provides consumers with competitive broadband choices and Internet access when, where, and how they want.

So, shouldn't they be in SUPPORT of this?

jesus verizon dont be such a whiney bitch It's like they don't even know they've been subject to Title I of the same law since 2003, and in the same boat they're in now before that. 

Asshats. I live in Ohio, and a lot of people in my life are conservatives. Recently, a lot of them have been talking about how bad net neutrality is. They cite sources from conservative news websites and commentators. 

A friend of mine recently said "FCC votes YES on Net Neutrality Law. The United States Government now officially reserves the right to regulate all Web Content within its borders."

My stepdad claims that the government screws everything up and giving them even more power is a bad thing.

I don't know how to counter any of their bullshit. Look at all these idiots on here who are apathetic or against it when just a month ago it was the last bastion of freedom. The general spam posts went from "Keep the net neutral" to "The gov fucks everything" with no backing or information. This is typical from the PR spam type and I urge reddit to keep an eye out for it in the future.

Make no mistake the PR firm delayed response (3-4 hr) is out in force today posting misinformation and spam to try and derail the discussion and purpose. So far there has been literally nothing bad about this and the only people it seems to hurt are the big ISP's. ISPs have always been subject to FCC regulations. Until 2003, they were classified as Title II carriers, just like they are now. In between, they were subject to the looser Title I regulations, but they were still regulated. The "omg government hands on the net" chicken little panic is, as you so concisely put it, bullshit. 

As to your stepdad, he does have a point, but the counterpoint is that the FCC gave the ISPs three chances to clean up their act - they were trying NOT to have to classify them as Title II. Instead they kept suing so they could keep pulling their bullshit and, in court (Comcast v. FCC), Comcast basically argued "They can't restrict us that way since we're not classified as carriers under Title II". The judge agreed, and ruled that if the FCC didnt' reclassify them, they had no grounds for enforcing NN rules. 

So it's not hard to see who the bigger screwups are in that little fable.  

 &gt;the government screws everything up

I wonder who people like this think the government is. Aren't WE the government? You can't argue with these true believers because no facts will sway them. Facts only drive them deeper into their bomb shelters. In theory, net neutrality isn't something I think most people want. However, the reality of the lack of competition in the U.S telecom market makes net neutrality needed. You could explain how most americans don't have a choice in who their high speed internet provider is. As a result there is practically 0 incentive for telecoms to innovate or even provide good service to their customers. Why would they? It would be an entirely illogical move on their part.

With the rest of the world leaving us behind on more and more metrics, we can't afford to sit back and wait for some google fiber type crusade to instill competition into the telecom market as a whole. 



 you don't know how to counter any of their arguments, yet you call their arguments "bullshit". very interesting. &gt; My stepdad claims that the government screws everything up

Hard to disagree with this part.

I'm curious as to why you consider their arguments bullshit, though.  I happen to agree -- except for stepdads point, he's spot on -- but it sounds like you're just calling BS based on what you're hearing other people say.  Ironically, this is exactly what you've called your relatives out on. Thanks Verizon. Without your attempt to screw over Americans by suing the FCC to overturn the previous regulations none of this would have happened. Yet to be proven its a bad move for them. If prices are not cut at least in half, its still a net positive. The added regulation is now an excuse to increase rates.

All that needed to be done was to allow the FCC to enforce regulations. Ask yourself why the easiest, lowest cost solution was completely avoided at all costs by congress? Even when it's what the FCC originated requested.

At this time, there is no evidence this is a good move. Especially since, as a federally regulated entity, it further strengths illegal access for the federal government.
 I doubt there will be any rate decreases. But the big ISPs really wanted that paid prioritization. And for now they have lost it. The big win for consumers will come when smaller ISPs have an easier time coming into other markets because it costs less to to build out their network. It won't get better overnight but between this and their ruling on municipal broadband the groundwork has been laid. Don't underestimate the impact of regulations creating a barrier for entry and needlessly increased costs. Don't under estimate regulatory capture.
 At the end of the day Verizon's greed is the cause of any changes that come from this. The FCC didn't want Title II classification for the Internet they just wanted to stop paid prioritization. But Verizon wanted it so bad that they sued the FCC to get the rules overturned. So the only way left to the FCC to ensure that is Title II. I am all for open markets and a hands off government but at some point you have to realize that those things are not and can not work.  That's simply not true. There were many routes to take. This was the least appealing route and was not what was desired. All congress had to do was to authorize legal enforcement of net neutrality regulations. That's absolutely what comcast and Verizon did not want. Now that it's a utility, comcast and Verizon have legal standing for input into the regulations.

I fully expect regulatory capture is right around the corner.
 Reddit in general thought that had already happened with Tom Wheeler in charge of the FCC. But I think we all know that the reason that Congress wouldn't touch this issue was because of money. That is why you have members of the Republican party spouting talking points from the ISPs. And while companies like Verizon or Comcast will have a voice in crafting regulations there are organizations representing smaller ISPs that will also have a voice. This move of Title II classification is not universally hated by ISPs. Just the large ones with local monopolies. I don't disagree, but it's orthogonal to my point.
 prices will be going up massively  The live stream is still up. Currently listening to a lobbyist complaining about the ruling. http://www.fcc.gov/live

Try not to hug it too hard. 

**Edit**: Go Wheeler! "The Internet is too important to be controlled by government or corporate interests!!"

**Edit 2**: Meeting adjourned. What a ride. **Next one is March 26th.** Will be watching youtube for Wheeler's closing remarks, especially the one on **abolishing fast lanes**. Can we talk about the jazzy music the stream is running right now?

**Edit 3**: Press Conference! Same link!

**Final Edit**: Thanks to /u/1010101110 for posting Wheeler's speech. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vfVR0C2HHSI&amp;feature=youtu.be Tom Wheeler just now on the stream: "[this new bill will] ban throttling because degrading access to legal content and services can have the same effect as blocking and it will not be permitted."

CAN I GET A MOMENT OF SILENCE FOR MY BOY, TOM? http://i.imgur.com/uhKCu89.gif I'm blown away by how he seems to have removed his bonds to his old ways and words. I remain skeptical and remain on the lookout for the catch though. It feels like a bait and switch doesn't it.

We'll probably find a small provision in the next routine filing that completely does the opposite of this.

Shit, it will probably officially make comcast own our souls. [deleted] "Verizon can eat a dick." Check didn't clear in time. Agreed. I'm all for celebrating, but I'm not jumping up and down for joy yet! 

I *want* to believe that he has the consumers best interests at heart. I really, really want to. Here's to hope! 

Edit: I know it's silly, but I just reached the 10k mark with my comment karma! I'm glad it was with a comment like this. :)  The speech he is giving is absolutely wonderful. For those that can't/don't feel like watching it, a quote that sums up the feel of the speech:

"This is no more a plan to regulate the internet than the first amendment is to regulate free speech."  Got me right in the freedom, go Tom go! I hope we hold the fcc to this quote in the future. Great quote.  hahaha listen to this whiny bitch. This is glorious.

 OMG, I couldn't watch that for more than a minute, it was making me want to strangle that shill through the Internet.

"Imagined harms"?  Fuck you comcast lobbyists.  There's nothing imaginary about your 95% profit margin on Internet services.  There's nothing imaginary about the US having the slowest and most expensive Internet of any 1st world country.  There's nothing imaginary about monopolies being shown over and over again to harm the consumers.

Just FUCK YOU!

EDIT:  I get it guys, a few other countries have even worse Internet that the US.  I think the point still stands though. &gt;slowest and most expensive internet of any 1st world country

Might I direct you to Canada We know, but, eh, we pretty much count you as America. North America, we can call it. I prefer 'America's Hat' Canada's Shorts.

http://i.imgur.com/whpOQ.jpg I live in Orlando. Is it surprising that Canada's dick gets 50 million tourists a year?

People really want the D. Does that make Tampa our genital warts. ...D...Disney World? America's toque.

And Mexico are the pantalones. "Trying to impose regulations on a thriving competitive market" yeah I don't think I can listen to much more of that. I can't watch that guy. It's infuriating. Yeah, he seems like a scum bag. He just tried to say broadband internet isn't a telecommunications service. Uh what? All ways of connecting to the Internet are a means of communication over a distance. That's the exact definition of telecommunications!

What a dingus. Yours is the actual meaning of the word, but as far as the government's concerned it's "transmission, between or among points specified by the user, of information of the users choosing, without change in the form or content of the information as sent and received."

Still seems to cover ISPs pretty well, though, doesn't it? Maybe their next move will be to try and filter the shit out of your data so it's not "without change." Blood is boiling......  "There is no problem for the government to solve" hahahHAHAHAHa Yeah, because it's not like you guys have some of the slowest and most expensive internet in the industrialized world... oh wait... And that they're using said government to defeat competition. Pffft. Guy was talking about competition in the market. I want to just scream through the scream* about how blatant a lie that is.

*screen. Autocorrect pls. The government has live streams? I thought they still used beepers and fax machines. Yeah my state gov just set up their live streams Have you really never heard of cspan? cspan - Comprehensive Super Perl Archive Network This guy is reading a fucking poem.  The one I heard is about "broadbands have faced unparalleled competition that provide great services at lower price than ever" lel &gt; Try not to hug it too hard.

I would find it ironic if the FCC's website could not handle any amount of traffic.  Maybe I am just ignorant of legitimate reasons it could happen.  

 Any website that doesn't normally get huge amounts of traffic is likely to suffer when a huge surge of visitors shows up. Particularly when it's serving something like video. I opened that link, clicked play, and the words I heard were, "...and until then we stand adjourned."  Then he banged his gavel. Bad timing on my part. Where's the chat? I need to raise my donger 

 raise ur dongers   -(   )___ Don't mind me just taking Comcast for a walk Very often, I feel shame at my Federal Government. Today I am proud for the logic executed. Thanks Mr Wheeler Holy misspeaking Some would call that lying. Please note this is only true for states that allow municipalities to build a network and try to say that they can't build outside a certain area.

If states do not allow municipalities to build networks this ruling does nothing to affect that.

Again. This only affects states that **have not completely blocked** municipalities from building networks.

Edit:
List of states that block broadband networks via [broadbandnow.com](http://broadbandnow.com/report/municipal-broadband-roadblocks/#DirectSale) (Arkansas, Missouri, Nebraska, Pennsylvania, Texas, and Washington). Which states have completely blocked such network building? Arkansas, Missouri, Nebraska, Pennsylvania, Texas, and Washington Bastions of filthy liberals. Well I mean, Washington actually is, but... yeah. http://broadbandnow.com/report/municipal-broadband-roadblocks/#DirectSale I don't know how much clearer politics being influenced by big corporations can be than exhibited than by these laws. I live in Arkansas a bit outside of town. My internet is 10 down 1 up which I pay $80 and is constantly having problems. This ISP is my only option. How does this No Direct Sale thing affect me? Or does it at all? This specific example means that your state has passed a law saying your town is not allowed to start an ISP to compete with the one that you use. It does not ban a private company coming in to compete with that ISP, but there are other barriers in place to make that difficult. This specific law only has to do with cities and towns trying to offer internet services themselves. But it's good news for all but 6 states....I'll take it. It really isn't.

This does nothing to remove major burdens that prevent municipalities from starting networks. This is only good for places that manage to start networks.

For my state of Florida, municipalities have to add a massive tax and also must be able to recoup the entire cost of the project in 4 years. This does nothing to solve these issues. Not yet, but its very conceivable now a community in Florida who wants to build out could go to the FCC and ask for a ruling that those laws are a barrier to broadband build out, the same as this ruling determined. Very important distinction right here.  Fuck my state (PA). Or even better, change your state. Washingtonian here, we can be sad together. Whatever dude, enjoy your weed. Would this affect companies to build/expand infrastructure where other ISPs "own"? For example, in many parts of Chicago, RCN cannot provide service because those areas "belong" to Comcast.   ELI5 please? I haven't dug too deep into this, and I am not well informed on how broadly or narrowly the FCC ruled on this issue. Others have commented that only NC and TN will really benefit from this outcome. I'm surprised that the ruling is so narrow - did the FCC at least leave the door open for the possibility of expanding municipality rights to developing local networks in the future? ELI5 FCC basically is keeping the doors wide open. Their allowed to either be locked, or open, and they're not allowed to be anywhere in-between. If a state REALLY wants, they can just completely lock the door and the FCC can't do anything about it, but no more of this "The door isn't locked!" while they've actually barricaded it with everything including the kitchen sink stuff they've been doing.

Edit: Because I suck at They're vs. Their vs. There and spelling in general. 
 FCC overturned a(n) archaic law, YAY!!

I live in Texas, FUCK!

*a letter &gt;SO LET ME CLOSE WHERE I BEGAN. 
WITH A SHOUT OUT TO 4 MILLION 
AMERICANS WHO TOOK THEIR TIME TO 
SHARE WITH US THEIR VIEWS. We did it!! Hopefully this doesn't end up like last time "we did it".  WE CAUGHT THE TERRORISTS RED HANDED!!! he literally said shout-out?   Yes he did. I'm glad I can say I took the time to write Wheeler, and can be counted as part of that 4 million. We did it.  Tom Wheeler has *so* outperformed everyone's expectations of him. What a boss! The American people got a small victory today.  Hooray. Why don't we wait for the txt of this document before we start sucking each others dicks.   can we just do the dick sucking while reading the text? i want my dick sucked I second this motion. Honestly, its incredible how fast Reddit did a 180 from calling Wheeler a Corporate Puppet to being the Edward Snowden of Bureaucrats. Well it seems Wheeler did a very quick 180 himself No, he did not. If you look at his entire career, this is entirely consistent and expected.

Yes, he was once head of the main cable trade group. That was 30 years ago, at a time when cable was the scrappy underdog alternative to big broadcasting. It was also a time when the public internet did not even exist, so his stint with the cable industry was all about television.

Yes, later he was head of the main wireless trade group. That started at a time when cell phones were just starting to move from expensive, rare items that would get people to stare at you in awe and wonder when you used one in public to expensive, but reasonably prevalent items. He was in that position up through the point where cell phones started to become ordinary, and cellular internet was just starting to get to the point where it was useful.

One of his main roles in that job was representing the industry in front of the FCC, and it was his suggestions, proposals, and feedback that played a big role in shaping the Title II framework that was used to regulate wireless voice. That has been a huge success both from a consumer point of view and an industry point of view.

Between and after the above two jobs, he's done a variety of things. Some had nothing to do with telecom (he started an aerospace component repair company, did venture capital stuff, has been on boards of things like PBS and the Kennedy Center). Some had plenty to do with telecom...including an attempt to start a high speed information service that failed because he could not get the cable companies to let him have access. In other words, he had a business of his fail **because there was a lack of net neutrality**.

He also managed somewhere in there to write a book a history book called [Mr. Lincoln's T-Mails: How Abraham Lincoln Used the Telegraph to Win the Civil War](http://www.amazon.com/Mr-Lincolns-T-Mails-Abraham-Telegraph/dp/B003GAN40O).

It's pretty clear that at heart Wheeler is a telecom policy nerd. Both times that he has taken jobs as industry representatives (the cable job and the wireless job) have been at times when those industries have been at their formative stages, where they had great potential to provide much good for consumers and society, and under his tenure in those positions those industries in fact moved them well along that path.

This is exactly the kind of guy you want to appoint to regulatory agencies. A nerd in the relevant field. Experience with the industry being regulated. A track record of making things better for both the industry and the consumer when he lead the industry trade groups.

I've never understood why people think that there is something suspicious about regulators coming from the regulated industry. Where else would they come from? If we are searching for a new head for the FAA, for example, we want someone with intimate knowledge of aviation law and policy and the aviation industry. Are we supposed to try to find a farmer, or a doctor, or a sales manager who just happens to have aviation law and policy as his passionate hobby and has become an expert in it? &gt;  A nerd in the relevant field. Experience with the industry being regulated

Not only that - but I read that this is his last job. He made enough FU money to retire when he lobbied. This might have been one of those "Top of the Field" positions.  Really good post. Thanks Obama!? Have you seen ObamaRobot around? Also, since I'm here... *Cough*  It's Biden Time! Have you been Biden your time to post? Thanks, Biden! I'm pretty great. Are you really a bot? No I am not. Are you really a bot? Fucking Biden! No, thanks to the 4 million people who went to comment on the FCC page and thanks to John Oliver.  I would assume that it comes from Obama responding from the giant outcry coming from his base (Young people and Pro-Regulation individuals). Wheeler is an appointed official after all. No matter what it was its clear that such a big reversal was due to career interest rather than a change in his views on the matter.  well Obama ran on net neutrality.. it was one of his many promises. It's kinda telling that we are puzzling about *why a politician is sticking to his promise* and *why the massive amount of people wanting something* makes a difference. As a conservative and website administrator I wrote to Tom Wheeler and my senators and reps to tell them to back off and allow Net Neutrality to remain. I usually disagree with government intervention, but this action was necessary -  There are more of us than you realize. I studied broadcast journalism and have a broader understanding of the FCC than most and some of their past regulations were important and well implemented. Overturning state and local laws is probably going to help consumers a lot and streamline the ability for others to compete in that space. Obama has been doing some pretty cool second-term-I-don't-give-a-fuck moves. Some are probably just political posturing, but others like this have a chance to make a real difference. I mean, at this point he probably takes what he can get given the Republican control of Congress. Anything big he does during this term is going to be through his executive powers or through his control over the executive branch.  I mean, when he was brought on as head of the FCC it was pretty hard NOT to think "Wait, this guy was a lobbyist for cable companies and now he's in charge of the FCC?" I'm incredibly (and pleasantly) surprised by how Wheeler has actually turned out to be pretty in touch with what everyday, real (i.e. not a corporation) Americans need. "Commissioner, I tried to keep score on all the things I disagreed with that you said, but I've got you on my scorecard now as 'undecided, but probably wavering against.'"

Tom Wheeler is awesome. Great news, I just hope this isn't like a Game of Thrones episode where a happy scene is followed by your favorite characters being gruesomely murdered. "Tom Wheeler sends his regards." Just wait until Time Warner enters the Frey Not my local monopoly, Ned loves my local monopoly. Maybe we're lucky and it's just Comcast who happens to fall in its own sword or something. Gored by a boar would be my preference. That's mean to the bear, Comcast probably tastes like shit.

Edit: Misspellings are present, I'm leaving them. Is a bear going to eat the boar, or did you have a typo? ;) The Rains of Comcastamere

Edit: Thanks for the gold! Fuck yes. Fuck Comcast and their lobbyists.  I give it about 45 minutes before Comcast files suit against the FCC. Let them come.  Easy there, Gimli... Certainty of death?
Small chance of success?

What're we waiting for? This was an issue long before Comcast, to be honest. These local laws and deals have long been one of the biggest barriers to ISP competition in the US. He's not saying this started with Comcast. He's just celebrating the fact that Comcast is going to suffer. Exactly, along with all other ISPs who opposed Net Neutrality.  Yeah... All of those 2 or 3 others. Considering they're all pretty much the big ones, GOOD. Don't care if it's 2 or 20. They can all rot while I give my money to companies that will actually give me the internet I want.

GO GOOGLE. Or pretty much anyone that will do it. Like my city or town! Or cartel! I was only a kid, but my father owned an internet service where I live, from within a year we went from a few hundred to over 20k, we were in business only 3 years when Pacbell, at the time they were called, put us out of business using a loophole in a law. 

They also used his servers and his equipment to give people internet service through them, which they then tried to get us to pay for. It was a looong battle, I fondly remember my father and mother telling the pac bell technicians to kindly fuck off when they wanted to come in and "Fix" and issue with the machines we were renting. 

We even found out they were telling existing customers that we were unreliable, constantly down and other lies to keep them. Took them to court and WON a lawsuit, until the judge said the amount was to high and only gave them a slap on the wrist. Shit like this makes me angry.  He just said in the live stream: "SO LET ME CLOSE WHERE I BEGAN. 
WITH A SHOUT OUT TO 4 MILLION 
AMERICANS WHO TOOK THEIR TIME TO 
SHARE WITH US THEIR VIEWS. " That was me! He's talking to me!!! Fuck, I don't even want competition, I just want ONE goddamn choice where I live (which is less than 10 miles from a major city).   Where I live I only have one real option. And they fuck me in the ass for shitty internet.

90% of the time you can't stream video without constant loading.

Pay $70 for "5mbps" internet. Where pn average I get about .5mbps.

They basically just say that's too bad, give us some slack you live in the country. 

Reality is their network can't handle the traffic and they refuse to acknowledge the situation and upgrade their shit. You sound like me. I pay $50/mo for our fixed point internet, and its only rated at 1.5mbps/384kbps. In the evenings it comes to a crawl, netflix constant loading, websites don't work right, or just take forever.  Anytime I call, they just say, must be the traffic on the tower or the wind blowing the trees in the way. &gt;     or the wind blowing the trees in the way.

How to tell your buisness is shit. I'm in a small community where the cable company (Charter) ends just over a mile from my door. A few years back I started noticing how many kids and houses were near me and I estimated maybe 100 households within a couple miles. So I think, maybe if I get in touch with Charter and drop a note to my neighbors, or knock on some doors, get enough households to agree to sign up, that charter would run a mile to me, and another mile past me or so.

I get in touch with Charter, and the response was that it was due to local legislation, not their unwillingness to expand. So after more research I see all this political red tape bullshit that's keeping me from getting a real ISP. Most of it backed by Verizon, because everyone out here either uses HughesNet, or Verizon 4g. Both are bad in different ways, but Verizon is making a mint off peoples limited bandwidth and overages.

I'm hoping this changes that. And fuck our state politicians who allowed all of us to be bent over in return for a little bit of campaign funding.  Now I can shitpost even faster than before! [Shitposting intensifies](https://img.4plebs.org/boards/pol/image/1398/91/1398919918934.gif)
 http://i.imgur.com/nO9akg4.gif And that's what I'm happiest about.  Not when I shit into MAXIMUM OVERDRIVE Seriously, this is a big win for the Consumers that don't have billions of dollars to throw at what's in their best interest &gt;You cant say youre for broadband and then turn around and endorse limits on who can offer it, Wheeler said today. You cant say, I want to follow the explicit instructions of Congress to remove barriers to infrastructure investment,' but endorse barriers on infrastructure investment. You cant say youre for competition but deny local elected officials the right to offer competitive choices."

YOU'RE GODDAMN RIGHT MR WHEELER http://i.imgur.com/Gk1HkQN.gif I'm legit scared he will be killed. This is also a huge deal for net neutrality. The scariest cases of neutrality issues arise from a lack of competition. If you had 40 ISPs serving an area, some would be neutral. 

Municipal broadband would face far greater constraints on how far they could take net neutrality violations and, as a result, will also help to keep other ISPs in line.  Try living in the UK.

Having a choice of 20 different isps is a ballache when you get so many offers with them trying to compete! 

/firstworldproblems

To give our colonial friends and idea of what our internet prices look like


[Here are some prices](http://i.imgur.com/KKFB7rg.jpg)


[Here are some more](http://i.imgur.com/ThMbjRA.jpg)

I cant fit them all one a decent amount of screen. There are probably about 100 different deals overall depending on speeds Ah crap, I hope that doesn't happen here in the States.  I can't afford to go see a doctor if I get a ballache. Thanks Obama!  ?| Wine and dine me.

Right now I'm stuck with paying almost $100 a month for 10 down 2 up. Thanks Time Warner Cable.  This, in my opinion, is a bigger deal than net neutrality. I doubt net neutrality would even be a big issue if there was competition in the market. The headline in the tech section of fox news right now reads "Internet on the road to becoming 'Obamanet'?"

\* I think they just put up a new article. [You can still see the video here.](http://video.foxnews.com/v/4080808924001/internet-on-the-road-to-becoming-obamanet/?playlist_id=929831913001#sp=show-clips) I just checked, it actually says that. If you watch the video, they described the news to the tune of "the internet as we know it may now change drastically, as officials add hundreds of pages of rules to govern it."

Now I get why my parents don't like net neutrality. ahahahahaha

"slower broadband"
"less investment"
"fewer broadband choices"


ahahahahahaha This is why Fox people are living in different world than the rest of us. We live in reality, they live in idiotland. I know at least 2 people who told me their parents have Fox on 24/7, stupid fucks.  Ayyy guess who's pumping this garbage?? Time Warner... I just read the comments over there, and now I have cancer. Wow, they have Tom Wheeler in a hail hitler pose for the image, and says it is opening the door for "billions in new taxes" 

What a fucking joke fox new is.  hahahahahaha

Fox. 
 Does anybody else wonder if John Oliver calling out this "dingo" in disguise actually caused Wheeler to feel the need to prove himself to the people and not be a "dingo"? Because so far I like what he's done with the place. Oliver should get a certified Zoologist on the show to formally declare Tom Wheeler "not a Dingo"
 Edit: *"...THE INTERNET MUST REMAIN OPEN. 
WE WILL PROTECT THE VALUES OF AN 
OPEN INTERNET. 
BOTH IN THE LAST MILE AS WELL AS 
AT THE POINT OF INTERCONNECTION. 
SO LET ME CLOSE WHERE I BEGAN. 
WITH A SHOUT OUT TO 4 MILLION 
AMERICANS WHO TOOK THEIR TIME TO 
SHARE WITH US THEIR VIEWS. 
TODAY HISTORY IS BEING MADE BY A 
MAJORITY OF THIS COMMISSION. 
AS WE VOTE FOR A FAST, FAIR AND 
OPEN INTERNET, AND WITH THAT, I 
WILL CALL FOR THE YEAS AND NAYS. 
ALL IN FAVOR SAY AYE. 
AYE. 
OPPOSED? 
NO. 
THE AYES HAVE IT. "*

Did they grant it just now? Yup, that was the vote to enact this.   So, more cable companies will be competing now? Not necessarily cable companies, but cities and towns will now be able to build their own networks, which will increase competition. So, sort of. Well, I mean, if cities has smart advisors, I'm pretty sure they can figure out, faster/cheaper internet brings in more businesses, which brings in more jobs, so hopefully cities will start bringing out public internet, and say fuck you to Comcast The city I live in (Eugene, OR) has been sitting on dark fiber for years now, with officials scared to move on anything because of potential legal action from Comcast. I hope this ruling gives them some confidence. I really hope so as well. Doesn't help that it's pretty much the only option. And not to mention that it's very heavily advertised in this area.

Municipal fiber In Eugene would definitely help break up Comcast's monopoly. Later today they vote on title II, which would effectively enable more ISPs in a given area (eg Google Fiber would get to expand) I want Tom Wheeler to be a comic book hero. Show his origin story as a young entrepreneur edged out of the field by the high barriers set by the competition to enter the market.

Show his development as a villain. Show his history of dealing with shady people to acquire positions of power. Show his playing nice with the slimiest of slimy telecom lawyers. Show him laughing and smoking cigars and drinking $25,000.00 bottles of whiskey with executives in a dark board room. Show his descent from an innocent idealistic young man to an automaton of the corporate lobby.

Then, show him sitting in the Oval Office. Oh no! Tom's even sunk his charismatic claws into the President! It's all over now! They shake hands, the world is doomed. 

Fast forward, Obama introduces Wheeler as FCC Chair, the bureaucrats stand and applaud. Wheeler plasters his plastic smile all over his face and shakes hands with the President. He takes the podium to address his peers. He pulls out a small pair of reading glasses and arranges his notes. He glances at the President who gives an almost imperceptible nod. Tom drops his big dopey grin and breaks into a smaller, but far more genuine smile as he approaches the mic...

"Gotcha, bitches." I feel like I'm reading an alternative story line to House of Cards.  *In a world where Comcast runs everything. One man has the BALLS to stand up them.* Then he immediately drops the mic and walks off stage. In pleasantly surprised by Tom Wheeler.  Here he delivered yet another win for consumers and for competition. This is awesome. I live in one of these cities and am a customer of muni broadband. Best and cheapest service I've ever had. I'm glad they'll be able to expand, finally.  Watching this C-SPAN and wondering who is this guy telling all the lies? I wish they would put the name with the person talking so I can know who says what. Ajit Pai, one of the FCC commisisoners? I'm listening to what he is saying, and one thing we will know on whether or not the argument is legit, is that if taxes and fees start to accrue on broadband, similarly to mobile, then he was right. Maybe. If he's the one talking online now about how this will kill competition and cost tax payers more money.  ... What competition is there to kill? "This is no more a plan to regulate the internet, than the first amendment is regulation on freedom of speech" Well fucking said Im excited, and im not even american. you should be excited that we're one step closer to no longer cluttering up your front page of reddit with "fuck comcast/time warner etc" posts  Can someone ELI5? Internet providers have been attempting to control the internet in many ways. For example, slowing down services like netflix and facebook unless you pay extra money for the special "facebook and netflix" package. They want the ability to limit what you can and cannot access based on how much money you pay them a month.

The FCC is attempting to remove that power from the ISPs. This would make the ISPs unable to charge for different "tiers" of internet.

Next we need them to remove bandwidth caps, and i'll be happy. I want to wish ATT, TWC, Comcast and Verizon a big fat FUCK YOU! 
Hey /u/Bossman1086,


This is now the top post on reddit. It will be recorded at /r/topofreddit with all the other top posts. [Ooooh, Verizon is maaaad.](http://publicpolicy.verizon.com/blog/entry/fccs-throwback-thursday-move-imposes-1930s-rules-on-the-internet) -- ([Imgur mirror](http://i.imgur.com/ug8i5xE.png))

&gt;"Readers in the 21st century can read the [translated statement here] (http://publicpolicy.verizon.com/assets/docs/VZ_NR_--_2-26-15_VZ_Statement_on_Open_Internet_Order_FINAL_1.pdf)." - ([Imgur mirror](http://imgur.com/a/RgSTf))

http://i.imgur.com/VQLGJOL.gif
 &gt; Republicans in Congress have proposed legislation removing the FCC's Section 706 authority.

Republican or not, fuck you. I get republicans are for a smaller government, but I don't trust the corporations anymore than I do the government. We citizens can at least hold the government responsible versus the corporation giants just laughing in our face, and continuing to do what they want. 

 As a republican, I agree. Very happy with the decision today.  Holy shit this is actually happening. Oh man I really hope they do this right. 

Transcript from the live stream.

&gt;"DO YOU THINK THAT NET NEUTRALITY
WEAKENS THE U.S. GLOBAL POSITION
THAT GOVERNMENT SHOULD NOT
REGULATE THE INTERNET?"

&gt;&gt; CHAIRMAN WHEELER:
"ABSOLUTELY NOT.
IT STRENGTHENS THE POSITION.
I'M MAKING CLEAR AS I SAID IN MY
STATEMENT THAT NO ONE, WHETHER
IT'S GOVERNMENT OR CORPORATE
INTERESTS, SHOULD BE STANDING
ASTRIDE THE INTERNET TO THWART
THE ABILITY OF CONSUMERS TO HAVE
FREE AND OPEN ACCESS, AND THAT'S
WHAT WE'RE TALKING ABOUT.
WE'RE MAKING SURE THAT THERE IS
OPEN ACCESS."
 From the FCC.gov Livestream

Chairman Wheeler: I have spent a lot of time in public policy.  Today is the proudest day of my public policy life.  
Today was a good day.  This happens and states are legalizing cannabis left and right. I feel like I'm taking crazy pills. I hope one day to live long enough to see comcast finally have competition in my area. Google fiber would be something out of a storybook. If this kills Comcast, then it will have been worth it. I don't understand anything that protects a company from competition. Isn't the entire point of our economy to have someone do something bigger and better than you, so that you flounder and drown in a heap of failure? It's like evolution, except on a money scale. If we want to reach the stars we can't just take the pressure off of ourselves via government protection. You don't understand *anything* that protects a company from competition?

A patent is government protection from your competitors copying your invention and using it for a duration.

A copyright is government protection from your competitors copying your original work and publishing it for a duration.

A trademark is government protection from your competitors using a name or short phrase that is identified with your products.

The FDA provides government protection from your competitors producing inferior food, drugs, and medical devices.

The FCC provides government protection from your competitors using the same frequencies you use in your product, broadcast, etc.

The FTC provides government protection from your competitors securing a controlling interest of your investors' voting rights, which would allow them to mess up your board of directors, dismantle your company, etc.

The government provides law enforcement protection from your competition physically stealing your products.

The government provides binding adjudication on contract law protecting from your competitors getting your customers or suppliers to break promises with you.

The government enforces non-competes (in almost all states) that are supposed to stop your competition from hiring your employees and taking your ideas, practices, inventions with them.

Non-disclosures are supposed to stop your competition from asking your early users to tell them about the products you're developing.

Minimum wage, child labor, and occupational safety laws protect from your competitors using absurdly cheap labor in dangerous ways.

The government provides libel and slander protection from your competition lying about your products and services to scare your consumers away.

Some company protections are vital.  Some are incredibly harmful.  It's all about balance and unintended side-effects.

**ADDED** (thanks to /u/Mr_Slippery)  The antitrust laws prevent your competitors from colluding to control markets and exclude you from competing.

**EDIT:** Several additions so far...  anyone have any notable additions I should throw in here? Completely agree and I'm fairly nervous about the implications of this one.  

Could municipal broadbands legislate the municipalities to only use the public option? &gt; I don't understand anything that protects a company from competition.

I can sort of see it at FIRST.  Back in the day some of these cable companies did invest a lot of money to get everyone hooked up with internet and they probably should have been protected from competition for a little while.  Say 3-5 years.  But it should never have been intended as a permanent situation where they would never ever have to face any competition from anyone else. I'm pretty sure that investment is far offset by the fact that they got billions of dollars to build infrastructure that never materialized. Thanks Obama! am I doing this right? FUCK YOU COMCAST Sorry I was a bit late, but this is what I caught of the transcript (seems to be the important bit).

&gt;**[CHAIRMAN WHEELER:]** WE WANT TO ENCOURAGE THAT KIND
OF INNOVATION BY MAKING SURE
THAT THERE ARE GROUND RULES.
THOSE GROUND RULES ARE IN PLACE.
EVERYBODY KNOWS WHAT'S EXPECTED.
AND FOR THE FIRST TIME, THOSE
GROUND RULES WILL APPLY TO BOTH
WIRED AND WIRELESS ACCESS TO THE
NETWORK.
MOBILE NETWORKS ACCOUNT FOR THE
VAST MAJORITY OF INTERNET
ACCESS.
MOBILE IS A CRITICAL PATHWAY,
AND IT MUST BE OPEN AND FAIR.
TODAY'S ORDER ALSO FOR THE FIRST
TIME ASSERTS JURISDICTION OVER
THE CONNECTIONS BY WHICH ISPs
PLUG IN TO THE INTERNET.
AND THE CORE PRINCIPLE THERE IS
THE SAME A AS ELSEWHERE.
THE INTERNET MUST REMAIN OPEN.
WE WILL PROTECT THE VALUES OF AN
OPEN INTERNET.
BOTH IN THE LAST MILE AS WELL AS
AT THE POINT OF INTERCONNECTION.
SO LET ME CLOSE WHERE I BEGAN.
WITH A SHOUT OUT TO 4 MILLION
AMERICANS WHO TOOK THEIR TIME TO
SHARE WITH US THEIR VIEWS.
TODAY HISTORY IS BEING MADE BY A
MAJORITY OF THIS COMMISSION.
AS WE VOTE FOR A FAST, FAIR AND
OPEN INTERNET, AND WITH THAT, I
WILL CALL FOR THE YEAS AND NAYS.
ALL IN FAVOR SAY AYE.


&gt;AYE.

&gt;OPPOSED?

&gt;NO.

&gt;THE AYES HAVE IT.

&gt;*[APPLAUSE]*

&gt; THE REQUEST FOR EDITORIAL
PRIVILEGES IS GRANTED.

&gt; **COMMISSIONER O'RIELLY**:
OBJECTION.

&gt; **CHAIRMAN WHEELER:** THERE HAS
BEEN TWO -- THERE'S AN OBJECTION
NOW ON THE LAST TWO REQUESTS FOR
EDITORIAL PRIVILEGES.
SO LET ME JUST TURN TO MY
COLLEAGUES AND ASK FOR A VOTE ON
GRANTING EDITORIAL PRIVILEGES ON
BOTH THE MUNICIPAL BROADBAND AS
WELL AS THIS.
ALL IN FAVOR OF GRANTING
EDITORIAL PRIVILEGES, SAY AYE.

&gt;AYE.

&gt;OPPOSED?

&gt;NO.

&gt;THE AYES HAVE IT.
MADAME SECRETARY, YOU WANT TO
TELL US WHAT'S COMING UP NEXT?

&gt; **THE SECRETARY:** OKAY.
THERE ARE NO ANNOUNCEMENTS?

&gt; **CHAIRMAN WHEELER:** I GOT SO
CARRIED AWAY BANGING THE GAVEL.
ANY ANNOUNCEMENTS?

&gt; **COMMISSIONER PAI:** I JUST
WANT TO TAKE A SECOND TO
RECOGNIZE TWO PEOPLE, FEDERAL
EMPLOYEES, CO-WORKERS OF MINE
WHO HAVE DONE WELL FOR THIS
COMMISSION AND FOR THE AMERICAN
PUBLIC.
FIRST CHRISTINE KIRK, WHO I
BELIEVE IS HERE TODAY.
CHRISTINE SPENT 19 YEARS IN
PUBLIC SERVICE INCLUDING FIVE
YEARS HERE AT THE FEDERAL
COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION.
SHE HAS DEEP KNOWLEDGE OF
TELECOMMUNICATIONS ISSUES AND
SHE HAS RENDERED EXCELLENT
SERVICE ON THE CAPITOL HILL AND
HERE AT THE FCC, SHE'S ALSO
FRANKLY A PERSONAL FRIEND.
THANK YOU FOR BEING SUCH A GREAT
CO-WORKER THESE MANY YEARS.
WE WISH YOU WELL AS YOU ENTER
INTO THE PRIVATE SECTOR,
WHATEVER THE FUTURE HOLDS FOR
YOU WILL BE BRIGHT, I'M SURE,
AND WE APPRECIATE, AGAIN, YOUR
SERVICE TO THE FCC.
*[APPLAUSE]*

&gt;SECONDLY, I HAD THE PRIVILEGE ON
TUESDAY OF SPEAKING IT THE
NG911 INSTITUTE'S AWARD GALA.
ONE OF THE PEOPLE WHO WAS
AWARDED THE GOVERNMENT LEADER
AWARD WAS OUR OWN DAVID FURTH,
WHO WORKS IN THE PUBLIC SAFETY
AND HOMELAND SECURITY BUREAU.
DAVID, TO THOSE OF YOU ON THIS
DIAS AND ANY COMMISSION, HE'S
JUST AN EXPERT ON ANYTHING
PUBLIC SAFETY.
I CAN TELL YOU WITHOUT LOOKING
AT NOTES HOW ANY PUBLIC SAFETY
SYSTEM IS STRUCTURED, WHAT ANY
LEGAL ISSUES ARE, HE'S REALLY
THE GEM OF OUR PUBLIC SAFETY
BUREAU HERE AT THE COMMISSION,
AND I JUST WANTED TO RECOGNIZE
THE FACT
THAT HE HAD BEEN
RECOGNIZED FOR HIS SCRXES TO
PUBLIC SAFETY BY THE
FG911 INSTITUTE.
THEY DON'T GIVE THAT OUT TO JUST
ANYBODY.
SO DAVID, WHEREVER YOU ARE --
*[APPLAUSE]*

&gt;AS I TOLD HIM ON TUESDAY, A LOT
OF PEOPLE SOMETIMES WONDER, WHAT
DO ALL THESE FCC EMPLOYEES DO,
BUT HE'S A GREAT EXAMPLE OF, YOU
KNOW, QUIETLY BEHIND THE SCENES
REALLY PUTTING THE NUTS AND
BOLTS OF OUR PUBLIC SAFETY
POLICIES IN PLACE SO THAT THE
AMERICAN PEOPLE ARE SAFER.
WHETHER OR NOT THEY KNOW TO WHOM
TO ATTRIBUTE THAT CREDIT.
SO THANK YOU, DAVID.
THAT'S ALL I HAVE.


&gt; **CHAIRMAN WHEELER:** THANK
YOU, COMMISSIONER.
ANYBODY ELSE?
ALL RIGHT.
MADAME SECRETARY?


&gt; **THE SECRETARY:** THE NEXT
AGENDA MEETING OF THE FEDERAL
COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION WILL
BE THURSDAY, MARCH 26TH, 2015.


&gt; **CHAIRMAN WHEELER:** THANK
YOU.
UNTIL THEN, WE STAND ADJOURNED.


**[Press Conference]**

&gt;
&gt; CHAIRMAN WHEELER: THANK
YOU, KIM, AND THANKS, EVERYBODY,
FOR COMING.
BECAUSE US A KNOW, TODAY THE FCC
TOOK IMPORTANT STEPS TO ASSURE
THAT THE U.S. HAS A WORLD
LEADING BROADBAND NETWORKS THAT
ARE FAST, FAIR, AND OPEN.
THE LANDMARK OPEN INTERNET
PROTECTIONS THAT WE ADOPTED
TODAY SHOULD REASSURE CONSUMERS,
INNOVATORS AND FINANCIAL MARKETS
ABOUT THE BROADBAND FUTURE OF
OUR NATION.
THE ACTION WE TOOK TO GET RID OF
STATE LEVEL RED TAPE THAT SERVED
AS NOTHING MORE THAN A BARRIER
TO BROADBAND COMPETITION WILL
ALLOW COMMUNITIES TO DETERMINE
THEIR OWN BROADBAND FUTURE.
LET ME SAY A BRIEF WORD ABOUT
THE COMMUNITY BROADBAND ITEM.
WE DID NOT TAKE PREEMPTION
LIGHTLY, AND WE RESPECT THE
IMPORTANT ROLE THAT STATES PLAY
IN OUR FEDERAL SYSTEM.
BUT WHEN STATE LAWS DIRECTLY
CONFLICT WITH FEDERAL LAWS AND
POLICY, WITH WE HAVE AN
OBLIGATION TO ACT.
HERE WE ARE ACTING TO ENSURE
THAT COMMUNITIES IN TENNESSEE
AND NORTH CAROLINA CAN TAKE
STEPS TO ENSURE THEIR CITIZENS
DON'T LEFT BEHIND IN THE 21ST
CENTURY, AND WE SAW SOME GRAPHIC
ILLUSTRATIONS OF THOSE CITIZENS
TODAY TALKING ABOUT THE
CHALLENGES THAT WE ARE TRYING TO
ADDRESS.
THE OPEN INTERNET ORDER PUTS IN
PLACE BRIGHT LINE RULES THAT
BANS BLOCKING, BAN THROTTLING
AND BAN PAID PRIORITIZATION FAST
LANES.
FOR THE FIRST TIME, OPEN
INTERNET RULES WILL BE FULLY
APPLICABLE TO MOBILE.
CONSUMERS NOW KNOW THAT CONTENT
ONLINE WILL NOT, CANNOT BE
BLOCKED OR THEIR SERVICE
THROTTLED.
TODAY'S ACTION ENSURES THE
RIGHTS OF INTERNET USERS TO SAY
WHAT THEY WANT AND GO WHERE THEY
WANT WHEN THEY WANT.
NO MATTER HOW OR WHERE THEY
ACCESS THE INTERNET.
WHETHER IT'S ON THEIR DESKTOP
COMPUTER OR THEIR SMARTPHONE.
INNOVATORS NOW KNOW THAT THEY
WILL HAVE OPEN ACCESS TO IT
CONSUMERS WITHOUT WORRYING ABOUT
PAY FOR PREFERENCE FAST LANE OR
GATE KEEPERS.
**TODAY'S ACTIONS ENSURE THE
RIGHTS OF ENTREPRENEURS TO
INTRODUCE NEW PRODUCTS AND
SERVICES WITHOUT GETTING
ANYONE'S PERMISSION
CONSUMERS NOW KNOW THAT CONTENT
ONLINE WILL NOT, CANNOT BE
BLOCKED OR THEIR SERVICE
THROTTLED.**

Edit: Formatting for clarity &gt; I GOT SO CARRIED AWAY BANGING THE GAVEL

Brilliant Lol @ the comments section on this article. Just incredible, like a shining diamond of ignorance.

http://www.foxnews.com/politics/2015/02/26/fcc-approves-sweeping-internet-regulation-plan-obama-accused-meddling Can you say what it says so I don't have to go to Fox News and feed them Couple hot takes by informed American citizens from just the last fewminutes:


ynna deiw 6 minutes ago

&gt; There one and only one reason barry and his bosses want control of the internet.

&gt; To shut us up.



&gt; There's one and only one reason they want the AR15 ammo out of the hands of the people.

&gt; They know the people will revolt at some point. Not matter of if... but when.


  

iseverynametaken 1 minute ago

&gt; Welcome to the Obama dictatorship.  Seig Heil O'Fuhrer.



&gt; If this was vetted legally through Congress and review, perhaps it may be something worthwhile.


&gt; But as it was done by King Obama without due diligence, I have to oppose it on Constitutional grounds.  Even a good think cannot be done unconstitutionally.



&gt; I see we need to cut funding to FTC also.  Let's just shut the government down until we get rid of Obama.  That would be better.

 Wow smh. Worse than I would have ever guessed TIL that overturning laws protecting monopolies is shutting the people up "Another reason, including the bullet ban, why the Dumbokrats will have an obsolete party come 2016. Keep going oblunder, give American more reasons to vote republican in Nov "16."

O look. Found my uncle. I love that that is basically two articles smashed together.  The first article is a series of lies about net neutrality and why it's scary- and the second article actually explains what net neutrality is.  It's almost like they were written separately.  CTRL+F 'Mignon'  - that's where it switches.

Do they expect people to just read until they get angry and then share it on facebook without reading the rest? Ugh, Fox news is the worst... Even the dimmest of dimwits can see that when the lobbyists start throwing a tantrum after a ruling, that is good thing for the consumer.  
  
These companies took huge tax dollars to "innovate" and did jack shit with it aside from building a broadband infrastructure to piggyback their oligopoly off of. We are on par with some Eastern European countries still trying to figure out their futures, post Soviet rule. It's embarrassing and any real conservative, like myself, should be able to admit a raw deal when they see one.  
  
This is not the free market our grandfathers built. There is no more partnership with America or the Middle Class. We are a speed bump to profit and they will run us over every chance they get. If left to their own devices they will bank money, actually stagnate innovation, and raise rates.  
  
If you think otherwise, history is not on your side.  
  
As our voting power diminishes, the greatest power we actually have as is consumers. Sad but true. And when big business (that is so much more destructive than big government) is left unchecked they create systems that do not even allow us to flex our consumer muscle.  
    
This gave us a bit of that back. Now prepare to fight even harder to keep it. Goddammit Yes!  Fuck Comcast. Fuck Verizon. Fuck Time Warner. Fuck AT&amp;T.

America. Fuck yeah. And someone asked me this morning where I got the idea this was all being done to go after Comcast. 

Thanks for proving my point.
 Yes, one guy on the internet saying fuck Comcast and several other cable companies proves that autonomous government agencies in Washington are "going after Comcast". In his defense, a lot of comments in here are "fuck you Comcast"

Not saying Comcast doesn't deserve the hate. Just saying, it wouldn't be such a stretch for him to infer that. How is it not a stretch? Do you think the commenters in this thread run the FCC? Do you think Comcast is the only company affected by this ruling?

And yea, let's be honest, why shouldn't they go after Comcast? They've consistently shown themselves to be one of the greediest and shittiest companies in the country and they've taken billions in tax dollars and subsidies the entire time. Whoa big guy, chill out. I was just a devils advocate here. I'm chill. I'm chill as a cucumber, man.  I don't understand. They've manipulated themselves into law, and have attempted to kill competition everywhere they go.

Why is regulation to return to a true market of competition not okay? In this essence, yes, FUCK Comcast, and anyone else who behaves in underhanded, dirty, political bribery in order to insulate themselves from competition. This is America - compete with the best products and services, not the best legal tricks and bribery packages/lobbying. This is not the end, but rather the beginning of the REAL fight.  Now the cable companies will throw all their weight at the FCC and Congress to get rid of this. Because fuck consumers and YAY profit margin. [deleted] [deleted] He's a shill. Just ignore him. His statement that companies spent billions on infrastructure, although true... failed to mention where they got that money from. Fuck this guy.
 For the record, they got it from us, through taxes. Nobody is forcing me to buy internet service?  Only they are, because you cannot actually make a living or even get much of an education without access to the internet these days. It is as important as electricity in the modern world. 

Also, I trust you know that the billions they spent on infrastructure came from the consumers in the first place, right? "BREAKING: FCC can now regulate and censor the internet. The internet as we know it may never be the same."


...no, I'm not joking. That just showed up in my FB feed. :( The internet as we know it (now) will never be the same. 

You wanted it to change didn't you?   Reading the responses from the ISPs, which is fucking appalling by the way, I'm genuinely disgusted by the state of affairs. When "You can't hold competition back" is met with "They're hindering our excellent and progressive business!".

Do these people **seriously** think they're doing an even half-decent job? Na na na na.
Na na na naa.
Hey hey hey.
Fuck You Comcast, Verizon, At&amp;t, and Time Warner Cable. Three democrats voted to remove unnecessary, restrictive regulations that do nothing but stifle competition. Two republicans voted to keep them.

And that tells you everything you need to know about the real Republican Party. As a true conservative, I agree. On principle,  don't like government intervention - it should have never been necessary if the market was allowed to work as it should and I hate that it was necessary here, but I concede that it was. Our reps are bought and paid for. This ideological "free market" is just that. It doesn't exist. This ideology works for some things, but not others. Some things aren't profitable, like certain medicines, but we need them. Some industries are easily monopolized and abused, see telecommunications industry.  Left or right, none of us are going to get a chance to create the United States we want to see with the current hacks in charge. Everybody is paralyzed until we make the government more responsive to the public will, like it seems we did today.  It just took a constant, universal, persistent roar sustained for basically years culminating in millions of individual letters written and tons of articles from analysts and journalists bringing the issue to light and a ton of political maneuvering that still isn't over because Republicans may run on repealing this as a bullet point in the next election. "...Repealing this as a bullet point in the next election..." -- It saddens me that you're probably right. To add to what you said,

Competition or regulation. All companies should abide by this. It's like not everything is black and white!

It's like there's nuance to big problems! I'm just jabbing you, but big props to FCC today. /salute - the internet is not a typical business model.  You cannot own it.  It is by nature free to all. Two whole republicans over how many that exist. That's like taking a couple shitty democrats and saying they represent the entire democrat party.  Well they vote how the party leaders instruct them to. They are avatars not minds. Don't pretend the Republicans in Congress weren't saying and doing the exact same shit. They wanted to pass new legislation to prevent the FCC from doing this, and proposed bills to that effect, but couldn't get enough Senate Democrats to join them to override Obama's veto.

The Republicans in Congress absolutely represent the Republican party. You'd have a point if it weren't par for the republican (politician) course.  I differentiate from republicans in general because it seems the politicians are three steps to the right of the average republican citizen.  If it was out of character, you would be right, but this is just another example in a veritable sea of Republicans being the significantly more corrupt and disingenuous of the two political parties. They're both corrupt this one just happened to favor the people, not individual interests. So, you're saying all the rest of the Republicans ***DO*** support Net Neutrality?

Because [you know that's fucking bullshit](https://www.google.com/search?q=republicans+net+neutrality&amp;safe=off&amp;source=lnms&amp;tbm=nws&amp;sa=X&amp;ei=qW7vVPOwMdLVoASR44JA&amp;ved=0CAcQ_AUoAQ&amp;biw=1760&amp;bih=897#q=republicans+net+neutrality&amp;safe=off&amp;tbm=nws&amp;tbs=qdr:y) and invalidates the point you're making. It depends if he is referring to members of congress or citizens who align themselves with the Republican party. I'm not saying all Republican citizens support net neutrality, but I haven't really seen anyone who was against it, that isn't involved in politics or big business.   Not all the rest, but not all of them are agaisnt it either. You know that is bullshit if you say all of them are against net neutrality. Love how democrats and republicans both try to twist words around. [Scope this out.](https://www.google.com/search?q=republicans+net+neutrality&amp;safe=off&amp;source=lnms&amp;tbm=nws&amp;sa=X&amp;ei=qW7vVPOwMdLVoASR44JA&amp;ved=0CAcQ_AUoAQ&amp;biw=1760&amp;bih=897#q=republicans+net+neutrality&amp;safe=off&amp;tbm=nws&amp;tbs=qdr:y)

I'm not exaggerating...*EVERY* article about "Republicans" and "Net Neutrality" proves they're against it. Just remember, there's no difference between the two parties. Lesser of two evil is still evil. etc. 
 
With a President Romney this would have been defeated on a 3-2 vote and then anti-net neutrality rules would have been passed 3-2.  Right?! The internet would TOTALLY be so much free-er and not deeper in Comcast's monopolistic pockets if there was a REPUBLICAN president...

People need to understand there's a HUGE difference between parties. [Actually](https://www.opensecrets.org/orgs/list.php?cycle=ALL#) Comcast has spent more on the Democratic party than the Republican Party. They are 61st on the list.

TLDR: 57% Blue, 43% Red All you're proving is it takes less to buy off Republicans.

Doesn't change the fact Democrats are actually fixing the problem while Republicans fight it. Fucking awesome how they took $$$ from lobbyists, then did the opposite of what they wanted.

Thank you, Democrats! EDIT: His original post said something along the lines of "All that proves is that it takes more to make a Democrat sell out." 

I... really? Are you that dead set in your ways that you honestly believe Democrats don't sell out as much as Republicans? In this instance sure. They did the good thing. But there are plenty of instances where they did not.

You can't cherry pick this and go around praising Democrats like they are the second coming of Christ. You would be hard pressed to find a politician on either side that isn't corrupt or taking money from someone.  Saying anything remotely close to the word "Republican" on reddit equals downvotes.  Funny how everyone on reddit is all for personal freedom's then refuses to hear literally any dissenting opinions.   Yeah I didn't really notice that until today haha. I don't really identify with either party, but holy shit people need to chill out. Ah I see you've only been around for around a month which would explain that.  Seriously though.  Don't visit /r/politics if you value your sanity.   I made the mistake of looking over there this morning. So bad. So, so bad. Reddit has a strong enough libertarian streak that pro-Republican stories absolutely make it to the front page...when Republicans actually ***DO*** things to warrant commendation.

Reddit's a democracy. The bias against the GOP isn't all reddit's fault, it's Republican's earning it as a result of not doing what any of us agree with. You're oblivious. Reddit acts as if the democrats are the saving grace of this country when in fact they're just as fucked as the Republican Party.  Haha, ok... YEAH, I edited it within a few seconds because that wasn't what I intended to convey.

And no, it's not cherry picking it's called evidence proving a conclusion that Democrats are demonstrably better than Republicans; proving they are **NOT** equally as bad.

I'm more than happy to provide a PLETHORA of other evidence to refute your incorrect "cherry pick" statement. Go ahead. But at the same time provide evidence that Democrats are not corrupt as well. I am interested to see what you come up with. &gt; But at the same time provide evidence that Democrats are not corrupt as well.

Why should I if I never made that claim? I'm sorry, I'm not sure I get what you're saying. Your second sentence seems to undermine the first one by pointing to an exact example where the two parties are not the same at all, and how easily this could have been a major blow instead of a triumph for the American people under a Republican president. I was sarcastically stating many people's arguments on why both sides are the same. 
 [deleted] The house and the senate is irrelevant in this case. Out of the 5 people who voted, the 3 democrats all voted for it, and the 2 republicans all voted against it. Headline should be "FCC do their fuckin job for a change" But I didn't want faster speed! Thanks Comcast! Right? We as consumers just don't see the need for anything faster than 128k. Pfft, I'm running on 300 Baud. 

Get on my level, peasants. Fuck those people who said "Nay" at the end there.

The ayes have it, cunts. They had to say Nay or they wouldn't receive their "donation" checks after the vote. Pai and O'Reilly sound like a couple of paid fuckwads. Obama seizes control of the internet and strikes a major blow against State's Rights. Can Same-sex FEMA Marriage Camps be far behind? Tonight on Fox News. Their actual headline wasn't too far off: 

Breaking News: The Federal Communications Commission, in a party-line vote, approves sweeping 'net neutrality' plan allowing broad regulation of how Americans use the Internet. http://fxn.ws/1BhIA5S Next, the highly dangerous effects of legalized gay weed in the Capitol.  Surely they will report on the Llamas that were on the loose earlier today. No lie that was a headline just a bit ago. Source: the TVs at work stay on Fox News....hilarity ensues. I'm confused. So citizens are petitioning the FCC over their state laws put in place by state representatives. Why not work through or vote out their state representatives? I thought that's how it's supposed to work.  Too many special interests involved. And sometimes there are contracts in place preventing changes. Makes sense in regards to long lasting contracts signed by previous administrations. Then Comcast sues the state which tries to change the contract or law.  It is.  But, the US Government says they have the right to dictate to the states, and the states have allowed that over the years by taking federal tax dollars for things.

The states are basically the federal government's bitches now and have to go along with what it wants.  Unless it's weed. Then fuck the feds right? I'll back whoever does the right thing, doesn't matter to me a bit. State legislatures are corrupt as fuck though, because next to no one follows their representative once they're in. when big money ISP's bribe state reps to limit competition then the citizens become irrelevant. Why do you assume they haven't? Perhaps this was the last resort. Because lobbyists. I wish I had a better answer, but as no one that I know supports any of the red-tape measures currently in place, I have no reason to believe anything other than them getting paid off. Firstly, the system for representatives is, to most people, broken.  This is also partly why so few of our citizens actually vote on election day.  

Secondly, even if the first does not apply, that's a very slow way of changing things (have to wait for elections, then hope your candidate wins, then wait for politics to happen, and maybe - just maybe - they'll propose the changes you want), and is limited in scope (to the state).  Whereas appealing to the FCC is much quicker, and the scope is national.  Less effort and time for a greater gain = people are going to look here first. Did they vote that the internet is a public utility?  Someone above said that will happen later today...? The internet is classified as Title II under the Telecommunications Act of 1934, which is not the same thing as a public utility. I only asked because I got a CNBC update on my phone this morning saying "FCC votes to classify the Internet as a public utility" I heard they were allowing exceptions to this is it true? No not yet. They're still in works with a bill proposal about Title 2. A few republican senators want this bill opened to view what's in it. So it's kind of an issue at the moment but I have faith Wheeler won't let outside government attempt to change it. But we will see. Imagine how much it would drop if the maintained or, God forbid, improved, the network! Woah there, that's crazy talk. Why improve service when you can improve your bank account. Here in Los Angeles, TWC tripled everyone's speed at no extra cost. They lowered their prices across the board for broadband as well. I'm LOVING it right now. 100Mbps Down, 10Mbps Up for $63/month. I was paying $87 for 30/5. 

Not that they aren't evil, but I thought you might want to know. I think they did this for New York as well. Imagine that... in a market with competition there are improvements made.  Lucky you.  In rural areas with regional monopolies there is no reason for them to improve services or lower prices. Rural California here.  3 down, .8 up.  50 bucks a month As someone living in an area that used to be controlled by a company that never upgraded its equipment/network here because they wanted to sell to Time Warner and is now owned by Time Warner who doesn't want to upgrade the equipment/network here because they are going to sell this area off to Charter if/when the Time Warner/Comcast merger goes through... this hurts. It's pretty sad when charter is your best chance at decent service. What's so bad about charter? They give me the fastest internet speed for the best price in my area Corporations aren't a charity. The sooner people realize it the sooner they might actually force them to act in the public good. They're never, ever going to do anything for you but the bare minimum it takes to keep you from walking away. Except for when you can't walk away because they're the only ISP available in your area because all the major ISPs agree not to compete with one another. Then you're fucked. That just lowers the bare minimum even more, to the point where they can make a 97% profit. His point still stands, we cant expect pure capitalism to prioritize public good over earnings. At the end of the day, a corporation is just a bunch of people going to work to earn a paycheck, and investors who are looking to increase their investment. That's the issue...this isn't capitalism. Capitalism involves competition, which doesn't exist because companies don't compete. Which seems like it should violate anti trust laws or something.m You can't force people to compete. Thats the rub. Capitalism has naturally progressed to the point where those with money have realized they can make more by *cooperating* against us than by *competing* for us. I don't doubt they probably resent the latter anyways.

Since they have also realized that the government has completely different motives than profit, it is used as a tool by corporations at this point to get what they want legitimately, because most people follow the law. And if the laws says what you want it to say... The minimum should be based on competition, though.  If someone else can provide better service for a similar price and stay in business, then consumers are better off.

That doesn't happen when consumers have no choice for provider, which is often the case for TW and Comcast service areas.  In my area I can choose 6mbps dsl or 50 Comcast.  I would agree with you if there were another choice for provider at a similar speed.

Whether it's a true monopoly or a de facto one, something is wrong with the picture. &gt; The rich owners of corporations aren't a charity. The sooner people realize it the sooner they might actually force them to act in the public good. They're never, ever going to do anything for you but the bare minimum it takes to keep you from walking away.

Why obfuscate who is making the decisions?  Corporations aren't a force of nature Decisions corporations make are often committee decisions informed by stockholder expectations.  You can't pin this solely on individuals if you're being honest.
 Individuals tend to make more ethically and/or morally acceptable decisions. It's the group think and the lack of personal accountablilty specifically enabled by big corporations and their multiplicity of stockholders and CEOs and presidents and managers that causes abusive behavior like this to happen to the extent it does.

Small businesses owned by just one or two people don't abuse and shill their customers and employees unless the owner or a manager is a psychopath. Which does happen sometimes. If corporations did indeed do the minimum to keep you then that would be a financial motive for other companies to deliver more than the minimum to gain market share. In this situation we don't have competition thanks to the anticompetitive laws put in place by ISPs and politicians.  Unless they are colluding to maintain increased revenues for all "competitors" and acting to increase the barrier of entry for new, actual competitors.

There also has to be a perceived gain in market share that outweighs the cost of increasing the level of service.  If a solution can't be found, the status quo is maintained. Worse, if you take the internet costs ($175 million) and add all of the employee costs ($3,019 million) and all of the "Other direct operating costs" ($1312 million) and then divide by [11,393,000 subscribers](http://arstechnica.com/business/2014/03/comcast-and-time-warner-cable-lost-1-1-million-video-customers-in-2013/) in 2013 and again by 12 months, it comes to about $33 per internet subscriber. That is, they could dump 100% of their company-wide overhead costs into broadband and *still* be making profit.

EDIT: Those numbers were just quick and dirty math before bed, so '100% of their company-wide overhead' isn't totally accurate. As others have mentioned below, it's really only their direct operating costs and doesn't include many other costs. so we're kind of paying for that bribe money to the FCC ourselves? against ourselves. nice. Double-fuckery, the American standard. &gt;Double-fuckery, the American ~~standard~~ service. 

Because you have to pay to get fucked this good. 

 Prostitution, eh?

Well, when I bring this up in court their whole defense will crumble like a house of cards. Checkmate.

[/zzap brannigan] It's a call girl for now, time warner and comcast aren't dead yet. That's the main reason I'm against corporations contributing money to political causes. A large corporation could funnel millions into supporting causes that the majority of their workforce &amp; customers - the people largely responsible for generating that money - opposes. Especially when the service they are selling is essentially mandatory in this day and age. More fuel for the 'treat it as utility' camp. Is that the entire company or just the internet business subsidiary? Because if it's the latter then that's normal... the former is just plain crazy. It's the whole company.  Although sing_the_doom_song isn't entirely correct when saying that dumping the company overhead into broadband would still result in a profit.  

The overhead includes a bunch of other stuff like selling, general and administrative expense (3.798 billion), and interest expense (1.552 billion).  

High speed data revenue was 5.822 billion, much less than the 9.856 billion in non-product specific expenditure. You forgot lobbying, political donations, dark money spending, and the like. Buying yourself a political party isn't free you know. And advertising. I get about 1-3 letters a day from competitors trying to sell me a service i already have. Even if it's bulk and cheap, it's still a lot of money.

They are basically spending money on customers they don't have.

edit: as others have pointed out, they get comcast letters from comcast for services they already have. This happened to me too when I had comcast. I should have mentioned that.  "They are basically spending money on customers they don't have."

Yep, that's advertising in a nutshell.  With a few exceptions. Everyone already knows about CocaCola, so Coke ads are mostly just cute or interesting to keep them on your mind. Good point man. *pop, glug, glug, glug* Not true. To test the power of advertising, Coca-Cola removed all coke ads in a small Georgia town for a while, and within 18 months Pepsi had become dominant in that town.  Do you have a link for that? It'd be fascinating to read about. I think you just proved his point. Without advertising people might forget Coke, not find new customers. You could wipe every image of Coca-cola from the face of the planet and I would still never soil my mouth by pouring Pepsi down it RC Cola? Surely that town didn't have any redditors.  As we all know, redditors are immune to advertising that tricks the minds of simpler people.  /s You actually do have to keep selling your product to your customers to a certain extent. There have been several companies in the past that had a near monopoly ended up bankrupt because they thought they could just rely on their customers to stay loyal. Competitors? I get mail everyday from TWC trying to sell me exactly what I already pay them for. Lol you're right. Comcast used to constantly try to upsell me. Why exactly does the post office give them a deal on their bullshit advertising? Junk mail should be illegal. It would be nice, but it'll never happen because it's what's keeping the USPS afloat. Not true.  Flats, Parcels and Certified are the biggest money-makers for the USPS.  The EDDM program is actually costing the USPS money because it is encouraging mailers to forgo using more expensive options to mail their ads.  The USPS has even been offering incentives to EDDM customers who choose more expensive options (like First Class, or Color prints). And at a lower price than I currently pay, but that price isn't available to me because I'm already a subscriber. This happens with Verizon. On the one hand they have been pleading with me to get Fios, so when I actually try to buy it they say "Why not DSL?"

I would not shed a single tear if the whole telecom industry was outright nationalized and the whole C level management was literally thrown penniless into the streets. They don't have to act like the giant cunts they do. That is their choice, and if that rather harsh consequence is the result then so be it.
 Wait wut.  You have competition where you live?  please tell us what it's like It's pretty great. Comcast recently upped my price from about 60 to about $85. For the same fucking thing. so i switched to RCN and it's about 55 now.

Or I can get fios that is slower for like 100. Yay competition.

The problem around here is that RCN only overlaps about 20% with comcast. Its the same with fios. The area with real competition is small and small enough that it doesn't really cause any price wars. Where I live, Comcast is pretty much the only game in town. Google Fiber is confirmed on the way however and I can't wait to see what goes down.  How long before Comcast subsidized hookers show up to keep you as a customer? Well I've never been with an Indian chick before, so I'd appreciate the sexual diversity.  Atlanta? I live in an area where FiOS and Comcast overlap. Though I don't have Comcast, I've been told their customer service gets exponentially better if you're in an area where you can actually go to someone else.

I almost want to switch to them to see if that's true, but I am really happy with FiOS and have no desire to switch. Oh god do not under any circumstance even think of switching to Comcast.  I wouldn't trust them to die properly.  They recently implemented a 300 GB data cap (download and upload) per month in our area and the only other competition is AT&amp;T (Slower DSL with a 250 GB data cap).  It doesn't matter what "tier" I'm in, the 300 GB data cap applies in our region for all plans (so logically we downgraded to the shittiest internet speeds we could get since why bother going fast when we hit the limit easily).  Any overage is a $10 per 50 GB increment (which does not carry over to the next month).  So in the 21st century we have to carefully ration data like peasants trying to ration food.  Obviously not the best comparison, but still, it puts needless stress into our lives.

Between two internet connected computers, several iPads and phones, Steam games, and cloud-based backup service we regularly eat up 2-3 GB a day, moreso if we watch Netflix (and even more with Netflix on HD mode, so we had to put it on low quality potato mode).  While Comcast is trying to stifle Netflix and Amazon Instant Video, it is absolutely screwing gamers and those who have cloud backup services (which Comast has no competition with).

Worst of all, Comcast considers this a "trial run" and has plans on implementing these data caps *nationwide*.  If Google Fiber ever comes around I'm switching first thing and never looking back.  Comcast can die in a fire and no counter-offer can bring me back. Where I live, the AT&amp;T cap is only 150 GB, with the $10/50GB overage. I recently had to contact the FCC to get them to stop double and triple charge me on my DSL...Google Fiber, please come quickly!!!! I get 1 letter a week from my cable company and I am already a customer.  That's money well spent.  I don't even open them up anymore.  Rip in half and toss into recycling bin.  You would be surprised how little it costs to buy politicians in relation to how much money they will make you.

For an individual the cost of overpriced internet is 40 a month or so and a slow internet. An individual has only a minor incentive to dedicate much time to lobbying for change on this. For a corporation that number is multiplied by the number of subscribers making it worth their time to lobby the issue politically. Corporations can use this mismatch to save a lot of money on lobbying, when there is no counter-lobbying, or effective organisation of the public.

The only reason this issue is alive is because of the money companies like Google spend on it, not because of anything the public has done. [Here](http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1377013/000119312514056642/d640670d10k.htm#toc640670_3) is the full report. If you go to the "Consolidated Statement of Operations" you can see the chart for the company as a whole. Total revenues are about $22.1 billion. Total costs and expenses are $17.5 billion. Operating income is about $4.5 billion, so the company overall has a profit margin (if that term even makes sense when applied to an entire company) of about 26%. Once you include interest payments and taxes, their final net income is just under $2 billion, **for a final "profit margin" of 11.1%**

There are reasons to hate ISPs that don't require a gross misrepresentation of information, but in the interest of /r/technology's ongoing campaign to ensure that nobody who is properly informed or has any actual power can take us seriously, I suggest we cling to this 97% number as if single services from companies exist in financial vacuums. Upvoting this to the front page would work well for this purpose. Wow. I did a little more number crunching, and their gross margin is 53.2%. How are people getting something stupid like 97%? Do your calculations include infrastructure?  Infrastructure is classed as an asset and so appears on the balance sheet.  The per year expense (essentially how much of the asset did we use this year) is then called the depreciation expense and for the 2013FY was 3.155 billion. That seemed noticeably absent from all these numbers. Infrastructure costs are by far the biggest expense for internet service.  This is where things get tricky for me. Coming from IT, I know it actually becomes more expensive to replace dead equipment with the SAME KIND of equipment. The reason is because technology upgrades and breakthroughs make it almost impossible to maintain the same technology line without prices rising due to smaller demand/availability. Think RAM - Go buy 1GB of DDR and 1GB of DDR3 - you will see my point.
With that said, how can they cry about infrastructure costs to upgrade speed yet also claim they are spending tons on infrastructure upkeep? If so much was going into upkeep/replacements, we would by default see increased speeds - assuming the company is willing to let those speeds trickle down.

What I am getting at, either way this information is put they are blatantly screwing the consumer. All broadband providers, not just TWC. There is a reason for this.

The profit margins US telecom companies make from offering "high end" services are absolutely insane. In Comcast's case their "extreme 150" service can end up costing a customer hundreds per month after all their little hidden fees, up to $500 installation fee, and of course the download caps hidden away in fine print.

Now let's compare it to what sort of baseline internet is possible. [Here](http://www.skbroadband.com/eng/iproduct/evalley.asp) is the service page for one of many South Korean ISPs. They're a multi billion dollar company, yet for a 100Mb/s connection you pay less than $30 per month and you get to pay month to month if you like. If you sign a year contract you pay a bit less and the $30 installation fee is waived. And obviously there are no download caps or hidden fees.

Imagine for a second that the baseline internet here was anything even remotely like it is in South Korea, or frankly like in most other parts of the developed world. How many people would pay hundreds more per month for the "*super duper uber amazing awesome alpha plus plus connection*"? Not only are companies in the US incentivized to not upgrade, they're actually incentivized to push the base level of service as low as the government will let them. I'm not trying to say TWC spends an adequate amount of money on upgrading infrastructure, just that this article is misleading and unfair. You shouldn't have to mislead (I would say this qualifies as lying to) people to make this argument.  Great point - thank you for the clarification. [deleted] Yes, but you also did not receive billions in tax credits to build said infrastructure and these companies in question have.

If the hypothetical/real company you work for would receive 1 billion in tax credits over the next 10 years for the purpose of building/upgrading infrastructure.. how much more growth would you anticipate your company would see?  How much better service would you provide?

Or would you lay a ton of dark fiber to meet you minimum requirements for the credits and pocket all the profits? There are bottlenecks for bandwidth provision that ISPs face that endpoints such as even large enterprises do not.  Network infrastructure is reaching the limits of what the backbone hubs can achieve, and then there's the problem of laying cable -- in either metropolitan or rural areas.  It's not as simple as replacing routers or switches or even commodity parts, either:  *all* of the equipment used here has only ISPs as their consumer base.  Devices are made to order, not before and not after.

It's actually cheaper to deploy new infrastructure where there has never been any than it is to replace existing infrastructure, if for no other reason than that ISPs don't get to have downtimes measured in months, as would be required of just that.  This has little to do with part replacement costs; they are generally able to use "superior" equipment as replacements for aging devices, with the natural caveat that it has to downgrade itself to handshake.  

That all being said -- it's definitely not impossible to upgrade infrastructure, and they actually do it all the time... for corporate customers. Understood but I am working under the assumption that the existing ground work (cabling, hubs, etc) [already exist and with new technology capable of higher speeds than given to customers. ](http://www.newnetworks.com/ShortSCANDALSummary.htm) Unless the ISPs infact took the money and ran.
With that said, there is also support from backbone providers that ISPs are upgraded and able to deliver, but dont. [Here's an example of L3 calling out Verizon](http://blog.level3.com/open-internet/verizons-accidental-mea-culpa/) - what are you thoughts on this? Excellent links, man.

It's also kind of terrifying to me to think that Netflix only connects to Verizon across *four 10Gbps Ethernet ports*.  Holy shit.  Was this before Netflix capitulated and paid them hundreds of millions to install 4 more? They're also subsidized by the government. Yes but not completely, these companies still spend billions of dollars every year on infrastructure. Check my comments elsewhere in this thread, I have posted one of their capital expenditure reports going back a few years. "Subsidized" "but not completely"

Yes... A subsidy is never complete financial support. Of course, but not everybody understands this. There are other comments in this thread where people are claiming all of the infrastructure was paid for by the government.  I remember reading that the US government gave 200 billion dollars to telecom giants in the 90s to upgrade the U.S. to a predominantly fiber based system.  You know what they did instead? Nothing, absolutely nothing. If anyone is wondering what the residential "customer relationship" is in the article, it's the number of residential customers.  So essentially the average residential customer paid $105.28 per month in the 2013FY for one or more services. Haha what. 

I pay 35 EUR/month for 100mbps internet and I think *that's* expensive... That figure includes TV and home phone service as well. The average just for Internet is $43. Or 38 EUR. Basically the same price, not counting speed. You guys have no idea the degree to which America has become an oligarchy.

Though note: I suspect the number quoted above is for Internet / TV / phone plus some equipment (ie modem, set top box, etc) To be fair, Europe is so packed  with people, that infrastructure investment naturally reaches more people with less cost.  People like to say that, but then ignore the fact there are plenty of very dense cities in the US that still suck compared to other countries. Conversely, it's much easier to run wires in post WWII suburban developments than it is in dense, sometimes ancient (sometimes historically protected) European villages and cites. When google charges $70 a month for gigabit service and Verizon Charges $284.99 for half that, you kind of get there is something screwy going on. [deleted] Ha, yeah, I remember reading that Google is even turning out a *much* larger profit on Fiber than they projected. I am so glad to hear that. This means that they won't give up on the rest of the US. Google bought out existing dark fiber networks which is why they can offer lower prices. Not having to lay cable brings costs down a bit for them. Which is why it stopped being an experiment and they decided to declare war on cable providers.  great for the consumer. Yeah, Vzw's is more of a "because I can" thing whereas Google's pushing for competition in the areas. Why is anyone surprised by this?

1.  It costs virtually nothing to serve internet data.

2. Most ISPs have been overselling their bandwidth for 15+ years. The costs are around submarine cable line access, employee pay/benefits, and, in some areas, infrastructure maintenance.

What this report shows is that those costs are insanely low compared to what they are earning. In any other industry a swarm of competitors would spring up to take advantage of this and slowly drive down consumer prices(such is the nature of capitalism). These companies, however, have created a legislative monopoly that cannot be cracked...

I have no idea how to solve it because these companies lobby so hard to keep their monopolistic policies alive. Just explaining why Americans should be pissed. &gt;The costs are around submarine cable line access, employee pay/benefits, and, in some areas, infrastructure maintenance.

Sure, but considering the price of internet services have been rising faster than speeds are increasing should show how well they are covering these costs.

&gt;the rest

I don't know either, shit sucks.

EDIT: spelling companies like google fiber and free world wifi are the only way. Or other billion dollar companies nned to start in a couple of towns and expand their service.

Needless to say this isnt the type of business where you can go get a loan and start a company. Entry and setup costs are astronomical. It's not even that. Many areas are not even legally allowed to TRY and start a competitive market with TWC/Comcast. Not even state governments. Cost is the issue that would come AFTER that.

It's all kinds of fucked. Or, you know, vote out the clowns that are taking bribes to write anti-municipal ISP laws. Cos that's feasible in a system where everyone can be on the take? Well **first** you have to collect more bribe money than them.

When you figure out how to bootstrap that processes, then maybe you can go around calling people lazy. It's not the legislation that is the primary deterrent to new competition, the money required to build new infrastructure is by far the major limiting factor, high initial cost of entry into the market creates a natural monopoly No, it's the legislation. You can't start a small ISP and build up because most cities require you to be able to give access to all the city. Most areas have legislation against digging new trenches to lay cable or putting up new poles to suspend cable. Not to mention even if there isn't legislation strictly forbidding it the process to actually get permission would be costly and time consuming.

I agree with you that the initial cost is high and a major factor but it's also just plain difficult to even get permission to do it This isn't entirely accurate.  Small local fiber ISPs are cheap to build out.


Where it gets expensive is running backbone fiber everywhere, or ocean crossings. The reason the cost is high is because of the legislation making it that way. For tier 1 providers, bandwidth is literally free. I know its late into this post, I just wanted to tell everyone that I am a Time Warner Cable customer. And yesterday at about 4pm the cable went out. It came on just a few minutes ago, at around 9 AM the next day. Which all in all isn't that terrible. 

If the superbowl weren't yesterday.  17 hours downtime *isn't* terrible? Man, America's internet sure is messed up. He's just been conditioned to think that its acceptable. My internet hasn't been down once while I was using it in the 14 months I've had it. It was on local TV, should have just watched the game on air. Unless you're house doesn't get service, in which case that sucks.  Not everyone has an antenna laying around A lot of new TVs have them built in these days, although not all. Even then I knew a guy years ago who made a makeshift antenna with a coat hanger lol That's true, I do have one on my new TV. No clue how good the range is compared to a set-top or roof mount is, though. Just FYI, My friend god damn good reception by sticking a paper clip in the antenna slot. [deleted] Not sure why you're paying for tv service when you don't need it. They've tried to get me to upgrade to it in the past, and i simply say no..  [deleted] You americans sure get fucked hard by companies. We noticed. Now if you must rub something in please make it some balm or a salve or something, we're still tender down there after Citizens United. [will this do?](http://i.imgur.com/rlmcGCk.png) No, you have it wrong. We get fucked hard by people. Corporations are people. "I'll believe corporations are people when Texas executes one."

Pretty sure I saw that on a bumper sticker somewhere. Don't ship it back.  Take it to a retail location and take pictures and keep the receipt. I had to threaten to take Comcast to court because for 9 months after I canceled my service and turned my equipment in, in person mind you, they claimed I never did. I didn't even use their modem, I used my own, but they sent me some shitty cable box that I never requested(Only had internet service). 

I should have burned the cable box in a cleansing ritual.  I too live in Southern California yet I have internet service with out cable.  My guess is you're wrong. Usually there's an upcharge for not having video service, but it would be extremely unusual for a provider not to offer stand alone internet. Especially at "97% profit" I'm in LA county and am able to get internet alone. Also yes you should buy your own modem and send them back.

How much are you paying for that 2mbps? I'm moving in the next month and will be getting 100mbps for $45. 300mbps is $65. They call me every month to bundle TV with my internet (comcast). And every month I tell them no. 

They are all, "it's only $5 more for the introduction period and $10/month for the digital tuner rental" So that's $15 which jumps to $30 after 6 months. Yeah no thanks. thats funny... roughly 2mbps is what comes out of the wall here in Finland if you dont buy a subscription plan They will never go out of business with subscribers like you.  I'm paying $50/mo plus tax for 100 Mbps on Time Warner Cable. No TV included.  The fuck? I'm paying $55/mo for 30Mbps down and 3Mbps up with Time Warner. And here I am paying $69.99 for 25Mbps down from Comcast. 

My only other option is Century Link, they only offer my neighborhood one option: $34.99 for 3Mbps down DSL. Where are those wonderful prices? Here in Canada we pay double that for 20mb down. This really rustles my jimmies. Damn straight That's definitely what happens when someone rustles my jimmy. Makes me wonder what other companies' profit margins are like, such as Comcast and Walmart. I'm sure Comcast has a similar profit margin. Wal-Mart's profit margin is fairly small per product (that's the whole point after all), they just sell a lot of shit. Former walmart manager here,

Walmart's profit margin can't really be looked at as a whole because of its business model. The profit margin in grocery is about 1-2%. I know we used to sell some stuff for a loss when I worked there.  However, when you get to the toys it was around 25% and furniture was almost 90%. Walmart makes its money by baiting you in with low cost groceries that competition cannot match, then you buy products from the high markup retail and services. If you want to look at a profit margin avergaed across all sales, it is around 6%. But that doesn't do the system justice. 

Edit to clarify a statement I made during my early morning, half hungover state. Not to mention loss leaders like TVs and DVD players.  Sell the DVD player and lose $10, make it all back on the 75% profit on DVDs (round numbers, don't hold me to them).  Same thing with printers and ink. You also make almost nothing on TV's, but the cables and surge protectors are straight profit.  Try going to a furniture store to buy a bed, they will take you straight to the fucking mattresses. www.tuftandneedle.com

Can't say enough good things about them. Yeah I think walmarts profit margins are around 5% Yeah, Walmart is about 5%, Costco is about 3% on merchandise, but they make up for another 1-2% with the memberships. Which is why mom and pop shops don't stand a chance when a Walmart comes to their town Yea Walmart and Costco are efficient and keep the costs down for consumers, how dare they! There's a lot of give and take with that. On one hand, it is good for the consumer because of low prices. On the other, it really limits the amount of opportunities for people in smaller towns to generate their own revenue by starting up a business. 

I don't know which I'd prefer in the end but I just want to make it clear that it's not as simple as "well it's okay because Walmart sells things for cheaper." They also pay workers less and don't provide much service back to the community. Higher worker pay has been known to help the economy. Yah those mom and pop stores were paying way over minimum wage... Same as gas companies. They make billions of dollars in profit a year but that's from a few cents per gallon.  Walmart's profit margin is just north of 3%.

[Source](http://www.marketwatch.com/investing/stock/wmt/financials) You just named two giant public companies whose profit margins are literally published for everyone to see. Walmart has very low profit margins. They use the long tail method to make enough profit.  That a deferring a lot of operating expenses to the tax payer by underpaying so much of their workforce. Not just Walmart to blame for that, it is a systematic problem that people cant survive on their paycheck.  Keep in mind that this is not the profit margin for the entire company. [Here](http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1377013/000119312514056642/d640670d10k.htm#toc640670_3) is the full report. If you go to the "Consolidated Statement of Operations" you can see the chart for the company as a whole. Total revenues are about $22.1 billion. Total costs and expenses are $17.5 billion. Operating income is about $4.5 billion, so the company overall has a profit margin (if that term even makes sense when applied to an entire company) of about 26%. Once you include interest payments and taxes, their final net income is just under $2 billion, **for a final "profit margin" of 11.1%** This article, while not technically *wrong*, is misleading to say the least. The profit margin they are referring to is what's commonly called gross profit, meaning: The revenue from my service minus the variable costs to provide that service. 

Think of it this way: I have a factory to produce widgets. It costs me a dollar in materials, and a dollar of labor to make a widget (the variable cost). I then sell my widget for $10, leaving me $8 in gross profit. OMG! An 80% profit margin! I'm ripping off the consumer!!!

But then, what about all the employees I have to pay, regardless of whether I sell 10 widgets or 10,000? What about the factory that I built for $100 million? In standard accounting (also called GAAP), I amortize the cost of my factory - meaning that even though I spent the money in year 1, in my accounting I show 1/5 of that cost for five years (it's a weird accounting thing). As for all those employees, the usually go on a line called "Selling/General/Admin. Expenses".

So, if you look at [Time Warner's financials Q4 2014](https://www.google.com/finance?q=NYSE%3ATWC&amp;fstype=ii&amp;ei=3JjPVNi1KouNrQGCpoHQBA), you'll see revenue of $5.7Bn, a cost of revenue of $1.7Bn, leaving a gross profit of $4bn, or 70%. That's essentially the number that the article is talking about (albeit, I'm looking at the total company figures, not the specific broadband unit). But look below that line - you'll see another $2.86Bn of expenses - after all that they had an operating income of 1.2Bn - for a 21% net profit. It's a healthy business, but not an obscene one.

At the end of the day, does this really surprise anyone? Yes, it costs next to nothing to add each new subscriber to their service - but they had to make enormous investments to be able to produce that service in the first place.  Correct me if I'm wrong, but thats a long way of saying that this excludes overhead right? No, only certain types of overhead. Yea well, I got a D in college finance. If I could, I would give you an E for effort. General and Administrative Expenses, Capital Expenditures, etc.

The actual Net Profit Margin for 2014 is 8.90%.

https://www.google.com/finance?cid=710792 Wow it took me a fair bit of scrolling to finally get to this one. The whole time I was thinking: "Well, what about investments and upkeep for hardware and employees?"


 Thank you, sir. This article goes to great lengths to "follow the numbers", but demonstrates no comprehension of basic book keeping principles like Fixed v. Variable costs, Gross v. Net Profits, etc.  

Or at least I hope it's a lack of comprehension. Or else it's *willfully* misleading, which would be much much shittier. I came here to post exactly this. This article is very misleading.  This analysis completely left out capital expenditures which are the primary cost of providing internet service. 

For example, [here](http://ir.timewarnercable.com/files/1Q13/TWC%20Trending%20Schedules%20Q1%202013%20FINAL.pdf) is Time Warner's capital expenditure for 2011 through the beginning of 2013. The article posted here claims that it only cost $175 million to offer high speed internet services, but you can check the capex charts and see that they spend billions of dollars every year on infrastructure investment. 
 True, the company can reinvest profits into itself.  This doesn't mean it will.  Customer premise equipment is the highest amount of the Capital Expenditures.  What is customer premise equipment?

&gt;Amounts represent costs incurred in the purchase and installation of equipment that resides at a customers home or business for the purpose of receiving/sending video, high-speed data and/or voice signals. Such equipment includes set-top
boxes, remote controls, high-speed data modems (including wireless), telephone modems and the costs of installing such new equipment. Customer premise equipment also includes materials and labor costs incurred to install the drop cable
that connects a customers dwelling or business to the closest point of the main distribution network.

So the $40 setup fee, lease fees for boxes, and other installation fees don't cover this cost?  They're getting their money back from those capital expenditures. You're missing his point I think.  Those capital expenditures are necessary to provide any internet service which means they need to be factored in to determine an actual profit margin.  Both GAAP and IFRS (the two mainstream global accounting standards) would require that any expense which helped to generate revenue be included in any calculation that purports to show anything related to a profit margin.
 
If businesses used the loose standards he's using when determining a profit margin, they'd be sued.  If they did it for a public company, they could face criminal charges on top of that.  They'd also be demonstrated to be entirely inept because this is the sort of mistake that even a first year student would know better than to make.

There is simply no way that TW's internet division has a 97% profit margin.  This figure has been reached by ignoring the largest costs that TW incurs as part of providing this service.  His figure is literally no more useful than it would be if he'd just made it up out of thin air because his method is so flawed at such a base level that it contains no value at all.

This is why financial analysis should be done by actual accountants and not left-wing activists with no relevant education/credentials writing for shitty left-wing blogs that have no fact-checking or editorial standards.  This article generates clicks for HuffPo's owners to sell ads and it serves their ideological agenda by stoking outrage but it has no educational value at all.  It misinforms, it doesn't educate. Jesus Christ I thought I was going crazy here with no one realising this!

Massive capital expenditures are needed simply to get an internet connection to customers. The difference in cost in delivering 1 MB and 1000000 TB is negligible.
 
It costs virtually nothing to deliver internet, once the infrastructure  is in place (hence the ridiculous margins) but to build and maintain the infrastructure also costs billions of dollars. It's why internet companies are a natural monopoly. &gt; It's why internet companies are a natural monopoly

Then they should have no problem being regulated as a monopoly/utility... Yea, because that expense was largely paid for by the us government &gt; It's why internet companies are a natural monopoly

Isn't this why internet companies should be owned by the state or by cities (state, to ensure that everyone has access)? I know that it's unlikely to ever happen in the US, but it makes sense if it's made into a public utilitt. There is municipal internet in small towns all across Iowa. This is already a thing in the US. Yeah, or really, a consumer cooperative would be best and least likely to become a bureaucratic nightmare. Yes,  I was an econ major a lot of my professors supported that kind of legislation or move by the fcc And yet google fiber can offer 2-3 times the level of service, laying the cable as they go, for less than half the cost the cable companies are charging... Sure its all going to ~infrastructure~ Thanks for bringing this up.

The majority of the capex for each of the 3 years is going into "Customer Premise Equipment", aka modems and dvr boxes. Scalable Infrastructure and Upgrades combined are around $700m, which still yields a huge margin.

Sensationalist journalists gonna sensationate.
 That was not a majority, that is just the biggest line item. $1.5 billion in 2012 alone was spent for:

&gt; purchase and installation of equipment that controls signal reception, processing and transmission throughout TWCs distribution network, as well as controls and communicates with the equipment
residing at a customers home or business

and

&gt;costs incurred to extend TWCs distribution network into a geographic area previously not served. These costs typically include network design, the purchase and installation of fiber optic and coaxial cable and certain
electronic equipment

and

&gt; costs incurred to upgrade or replace certain existing components or an entire geographic area of TWCs distribution network. These costs typically include network design, the purchase and installation of fiber optic
and coaxial cable and certain electronic equipmen

and

&gt; capital purchases required to run day-to-day operations. These costs typically include vehicles, land and buildings, computer hardware/software, office equipment, furniture and fixtures, tools and test equipment
 As a Non-American, I cannot fathom how the country that invented the internet....has shit internet.
 Kinda like the plumbing in Italy if you think about it.  The word "economy" originates from Greece. Just saying...  How can it be exposed if it is quite literally in the financial reports they have to file every year (quarter)?  The only thing that was exposed was the author's knowledge of how financial statements work. You mean his lack of knowledge. I think that is what /u/VanWesley was hinting at [deleted] Exactly. Even the title to this post is clickbait.

What this journalist says, you'll never believe. OK, while I love a circlejerk just like any other Redditor, the calculations here are super misleading.

Cost of revenue only includes variable costs in relation to making a sale.  Things like:  sending you a modem, provisioning said modem, paying the poor guy who sold it to you. 

This includes ZERO of the infrastructure necessary to actually give you internet service... downvote for shitty post. End the local municipal monopolies on service and see the prices come crashing down.

T-W, Comcast, Cablevision, all of them competing for your dollar.

Of course, since that will end the gravy train it will be very difficult to do. Future businessmen of Reddit:  if you can find a way to not pay for employees, equipment, or the services others provide your company, you might be able to (a) get a great job and (b) help improve TWC P&amp;L.

But, alas, TWC hasn't figured out how to avoid those costs.  Thus, their product margin as a company is 53%; and that is profit before operating expenses such as employees, etc.

And, the incremental cost of delivering data is low ASSUMING they already have to have the infrastructure to deliver video, frankly to a large base of the same customers.  If they were a data only operation, their costs for data would be higher (e.g. they got both video and data transmission when they dug up the streets and put down fiber/wire).

There may be TONS of reasons to hate TWC (or Comcast or...), but assuming that data is a 97% profit business is not one of them. There seems to be a lot of misconception in this thread. I don't use Time Warner or Comcast, but I do use an ISP provider from where I live (Canada). What you must understand is that the cable companies have huge capital costs to lay down the infrastructure for cable internet. In other words, these companies paid a huge cost upfront, many years ago, and are recouping their investment over time. So in any given year, the cash "profit margin" will look really high... But what you're not accounting for, and what the article makes absolutely no mention of, is the depreciation and amortization of the fixed costs (i.e. spreading out the large infrastructure cost over 20+ years). Yes most of you are right in saying that it doesn't cost them much to provide internet service... but it's also not cheap to dig up roads and lay down miles and miles of cable.   
Now with all of that said, I realize that TW and their ilk are still monopolies in many markets that they operate. So their profit margins are probably still "too high"... But not as high as you might think. If you actually take a look at Time Warner's financial statements, the ones that include D&amp;A (Google finance should have this, look up their stock ticker TWX and click on financials in the left side) their profit margin is only about 10% in the long term.  
For those of you calling for regulation of the profit margin, believe it or not, that's already being done. Cable is a natural monopoly and the government knows this - it's already one of their top priorities to ensure a fair price. If you try to limit it any further, then no corporation in their right mind would want to put up the billions of dollars to build these things, because they would lose money on it plain and simple. Then, instead of having only one ISP in your area, you simply won't have internet service AT ALL.   
Don't get me wrong, I'm not defending the big cable companies. I think their attitudes to customer service are deplorable, and they are lax about it because of the monopolistic structure of the market. In order to fix that, you either need competition, or regulation. But not because the prices are egregious, because when it comes down to it, the regulating body has already done a fairly good job of managing that. I think there needs to be "quality control" regulation, so to speak. But that in itself is not an easy task. So no, I don't like cable companies. But it kind of bugs me how much circlejerking there is on Reddit as soon as any of the large cable companies are brought up. There needs to be a broader understanding of market forces and financial analysis before some of the accusations can be made.  
SOURCE: I am an investment analyst that analyzes companies for a living.
  
EDIT: I also want to point out that the article's so called "profit margin" is actually gross margin. This means that no overhead costs are being considered in this calculation, and that is simply wrong. As a lot of you have already pointed out, internet is a fixed-cost not a variable-cost business, which means gross margins will be very very high. But consider the cost of operating the company, selling and marketing, staff, rents, etc and that number will drop like a rock. As I said above, net profit margin is only 10% in the long term. &gt;what you're not accounting for, and what the article makes absolutely no mention of, is the depreciation and amortization of the fixed costs (i.e. spreading out the large infrastructure cost over 20+ years)

The ISPs were given huge multi-billion dollar tax breaks at that time of infrastructure investment you're mentioning. They tweaked rules etc to maximize their quarterly profits then, and now that money is "gone" as far as the current shareholders are concerned. Short-sighted corporate bullshit. I work for an ISP with under 150k internet subscribers. We offer 88/8 packages @65$. The highest TWC offers in my area is 50/5 @70$ a month. I dont exactly live in a city but hell if my small time ISP can do it. Thats just embarressing TWC I will play devils advocated as an accountant and say that Profit Margin does not equal Net income. 

Cable companies are very profitable though.  Monopolies are always very profitable. AND DESPITE THAT THEY WANT TO LIMIT BANDWITHS, FUCK NET NEUTRALITY UP ITS ASS AND MAKE US PAY MORE?

FUCK

JESUS

THAT! &gt;My Time Warner Cable basic Triple Play bill went up 112% in just two years, from the advertised price of $89.99 to $190.77.

Someone didn't read the fine print about the advertised prices. This blogger seems (like many in this thread) to think that there's no such thing as Fixed Costs.  A multi-billion dollar company != a lemonade stand.  

Or, to put it in those terms, this guy sees me selling hand squeezed lemonade made fresh from lemons right off my own lemon tree, and he counts any revenues beyond my cost for sugar, ice, and a plastic cup as pure profit.  But that lemon tree was fucking expensive.

TWC are hardly "the good guys" but this sort of click bait circlejerk  "accounting" isn't far off from anti-vaxxer "science".   I want everyone to understand what this means because it's not completely obvious based on the context....97% profit MARGIN does not mean that the service is 3% cost and 97% profit.

It means that they roughly double their money on providing the service.  So if the service cost you $197 per month, their cost to provide the service was about $100.

You can argue that this is still excessive, I'm not taking a position on the fairness of the price, I just see a lot of pitchforks and I wanted to let people know it's not AS bad as you might think it is. Yeah guys, they just have a fist in there, its not like they're elbow deep.

 [deleted] I apologize, I was confusing two different terminologies in my head.

You used Profit Margin, and I was thinking mark up %.  You are correct that the margin would be about 97%.  The mark-up, however is 3152%.

If the mark-up had been 97% that wouldn't have been so bad...but  indeed it really is pretty much pitchfork-worthy. Except there are other expenses than COGS. Your math excludes every expense except the cost of revenue.

general and admin expenses
capex
depreciation
amortization
impairments
taxes
interest
payable
compensation expense
debt repayments

  [deleted] In our example, it is so low because there is very little (to no) material cost or direct labor.

All of the indirect costs are excluded from COGS. Office expenses, network equipment maintenance, network equipment purchases, upstream provider subscription costs, taxes, regulatory fees, right-of-way costs, etc etc etc. If you'd like to see what's possible for a baseline, here's the service page (in English) for one of the many South Korean ISPs: http://www.skbroadband.com/eng/iproduct/evalley.asp

The prices are in won. Divide the prices by 1100 to get USD. You get a 100Mb/s connection for less than $30/month. You can actually pay per month if you like - no longterm contract. The installation fee is about $27. Of course if you sign a year contract you pay even less per month and the installation fee is waived. Modem rental is free. There are no download caps. There are no hidden fees. Oh, and the company is still making billions. Of all the things these companies do, I refuse to hate on them for making a profit, I hate on them because I can't go to someone else. If I had options and they made 97% profit, then good for them. No one is hating them for making a profit. They're hating them for manipulating our political system enough to make 97% profits via a total lack of meaningful competition in the market while also providing shitty service.  If we had more options, I highly doubt a 97% profit margin would be attainable. The 97% profit is given as a symptom of the trouble with monopolies, not to denigrate the idea of profit wholesale. It's basically impossible to get away with a 97% profit margin unless you're a monopoly or pseudo-monopoly.

An industry with real competition would have much smaller profit margins. its called an Oligopoly. --Employee and other direct operating costs 

Note: In the article I show the chart with extra expenses, and mention there are other expenses in the caveats I list. 

But the question is -- How much of the employees, etc has been allocated to High speed Internet -- for example, is an unknown. Is it in proportion to the profit margins listed in the exhibits? Another unknown? 

The exhibits represent, as far as I can tell, how each line of business is in this mix.  The cable plant was built for the last few decades, including laying the wires and connecting the homes. And the high-speed component, then most likely paid incremental revenues  i.e., they did not pay for the construction or probably even the maintenance and network upgrades And it also probably is where the set top box and rentals of the equipment revenues may be.  Also, the ordering is done through the central processing  already set up for the cable service. 

This shell game is something we uncovered in the telecom world with Verizon and FiOSFiOS is a brand and didnt pay for the construction of the fiber networksit was phone customers who had rate increases as part of the utility. 

So, we assume that the cost-allocation used for the common costs will be weighed dramatically toward the cable serviceand the high speed side is mostly profits.

On bandwidth caps or net neutrality, etc? The company may plead poverty about bandwidth hogs, or requiring priorities, but their financials show the opposite  very profitable today.
 I hate TWC as much as the next guy but are they saying it's 97% based on gross income or on net income?  Because if it's off gross income this article is pretty misleading.  It's hard to believe their operating costs and cost of services sold are only 3% of their revenue. There are plenty of services that have high gross margins but the operating expenses kill your margins Gross income.  When it really gets bad is when you realize that the cost to build those networks in the first place was born primarily by the taxpayer and instead of putting the networks where they were paid to, they put them only in the most profitable areas and pocketed the rest.  That is why you don't have the rural broadband your taxes paid for.   That's not true for CATV networks, just phone networks.

The point stands as to why we don't have rural broadband (telephone companies squandered the money intended for such), but please don't blame the wrong evil corporation! Save me Google Fiber, you're my only hope!

-Fresno, CA Yes, things like this happen when you have government collusion with corporations. Remove their protections and this goes away. I know this makes me a commie socialist nazi, but what if the government took over internet service? It would bring in billions for the government, rural areas would end up getting better coverage, and costs would go down. [deleted] monopolies. 'natural' monopolies.

If internet was considered a necessary utility like water or gas, we wouldn't have this problem. It's not a natural monopoly, it's a government enforced one. 

There's nothing further from "unchecked" capitalism. [deleted] but your local municipal is controlled locally, and somewhere is controlled by voters via mayor, city board, water board or other.

If the cities would require ISP's operating under a monopoly to cap their profits on the customers, or open up competition, it would help reduce the overcharging of customers. Blame nobody but the fools living there. If they don't mobilize to be respected they deserve even worse. Didn't Obama move to make internet an utility? Yes, the requirement of building and maintaining infrastructure makes it analogous to water and gas and it should be treated the same. I would argue against it being completely like water and electricity, it is like water in a lot of ways, but water systems don't require the same updating that internet service does, in theory fiber will fix that as it is unlikely that we will figure out how to transmit data through a cable quicker than light anytime soon (though we will get better at sending it through the cable). However, what bothers me is that they get to carve up sections of the country for their areas of service but then turn around and argue against being a utility. The issue I have is that these companies want their cake and eat it too. Either compete like you should or be a utility and carve up the country. You can not have both. &gt;requirement of building and maintaining infrastructure makes it analogous to water and gas

I think that's debatable, however, if it is treated as such for not allowing in competition, then the cities should have a responsibility for controlling profit margins on the service if they won't let in competition. [deleted] I know you're being sarcastic, but when something is inherently a monopoly that is the solution. It's already been demonstrated to effectively give better service for cheaper. If it was capitalism then there would not be laws put in by politicians preventing smaller ISPs from starting.  Franchise law allows and enforces monopolies that can, as monopolies, do whatever they want without fear of market forces or economic realities. We're deliberately paying with our taxes to suspend Time Warner and Comcast in a competition-proof bubble, and now everybody's crying foul that they're enjoying it. &gt; can someone explain how this is legal?

The people fucking us and the people we are supposed to complain to are on the same side.  And they have more money than us to easily shut us up. Get a lawyer, they have 10. Money is power.  They aren't actually making a 97% profit, not even close. http://www.trefis.com/stock/twc/model/trefis?freeAccessToken=PROVIDER_6eabb45bd863fb52f7642d4eda4ae3be3322c98d

Its actually around 9%. This article is stupid clickbait. LOL. Exactly. What happens next in this article will blow your mind (cue Kate Upton on horse). Well, because this persons analysis is biased,  it's simply ignored maintenance and capex to get a picture of only how much profit/loss per individual customer.  Once additional things like maintenance, taxes, and capital expenditures on things like new infrastructure, new products/features/services, and growth are included- this "97%" begins to look very different.


It's very easy to use numbers to play a political game, because your average person does not understand the difference between a balance sheet and EBIDTA. I want to state up front that I am for proper government regulation but this isn't unchecked capitalism. This is corporations using the government like a pawn to establish regulations that result in an unfair playing field.  Why should high profit be illegal?  You are oversimplifying- the real question is how can a company charge so much for providing so little?
[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/United_States_antitrust_law](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/United_States_antitrust_law) They have monopolies in some areas and also Internet is considered a utility by some.  According to whatever that organization, wasn't it recognized as a basic human right a year or two ago? Because it's a fucking monopoly. You're not really that stupid are you? &gt; Seriously though, can someone explain how this is legal?

How is it not? Company offers a product, customers buy in in droves. You want the government to step in and say "hey there, you're charging too much (by our arbitrary metric)- this is against the law"?

That's so fucked up I don't know where to even begin.

 You mean like when the government stepped in and gave them billions in tax dollars, then allowed them to divide up the country into an oligopoly so they never need to compete?  

Yea, good call, would really hate the government to step in and interfere with this "free market" we have going on.  Helping with tax relief doesn't equate with "We made a law that says it's illegal to sell your product at your current price, despite the market demand for it."

My issue isn't about government interference as a blanket concept, it's about making a product illegal because it's too successful. It's not fucked up, it's monopoly law. If your company is making that much profit, there must be a way for someone else to come in and accept less profit. If no one is, it's probably bad. Comcast, AT&amp;T, Verizon, TWC, Charter, etc. There are a lot of ISPs.

Not a monopoly. !5@cEH+J;5LQl^)HJ]REQgNxzzyJo3&amp;&amp;:Sr

i@o~Ti&lt;Z+T76BC&lt;KD[u:J.n[IG&amp;K%7M06 I see you don't have to pay for internet service.

I'm lucky, I can have cox, Verizon (just recently), or nothing. I actually have TWC, but I'm switching to AT&amp;T since they're half the price in my area. Featuring download speeds of almost one megabyte a second!

I think under new FCC guidelines they can't even call that broadband anymore. Yeah, that's called a monopoly. Hmm, well maybe more of a cartel. &gt; Yeah, that's called a monopoly

That's not what a monopoly is, it's an oligopoly. Just like nearly every industry on the planet.

What age are the people in this thread? Yeah, that's why I edited it, however it absolutely is in many places a local monopoly. &gt; that's why I edited it,

Just FYI, it still says "monopoly" in your original comment. I am well aware of that, however there is another sentence which corrects it, isn't there? [deleted] Don't you guys have some sort of law where 'public utility' corporations can only profit for x% ? 
 Its working out exactly as its supposed to, it just turns out that people live in a fantasy land where corporations care about their desires and wants. k,W^&gt;QgT:.usMdhSh(AyHT592k)Vykm5C&lt;~X.9k#7yJUeoF4z(v5JG2T,cVr8$Qd# You want class-free? Join a cult. Supply and Demand. However, the cable companies used to be regulated. Like any utility, putting in the infrastructure is extremely expensive. A lot of the places cable operates, there is no competition, either by design or because competing is cost prohibitive. It's not a natural monopoly, it's a government enforced one. 

There's nothing further from "unchecked" capitalism.

edit: Can anyone explain my downvotes? I live in the boonies of Vermont. High speed internet here is ~1Mbps. MegaBIT. That high-speed internet is more expensive than when I moved to maryland and paid $100 for 50Mbps. TIME TO MAKE MY OWN DAMN ISP.  Whereabouts the boonies of VT are you, if you don't mind me asking? Way off on a dirt road in ferrisburgh.  You don't live in the boonies if you have access to cable, dsl, or fiber. Sorry.  Have some negativity in you much? And I don't have access to any of those, so awkward.  Your original comment suggests that you have access to a "high speed" internet service, which is usually associated with cable/dsl/fiber. 

What? I said sorry. If you don't have those things, then welcome to the boonies. Just clarifying for others that may think they live in the boonies but have cable/dsl/fiber available to them. They don't live in the boonies/country/bumfucknowhere.  Time Warner cable is crap. The infrastructure sucks and they still rape you for shit service. Apparently it isn't run by the original crew, just one person, as everyone left him due to disagreement. Yup, read that on TorrentFreak. They're also going to start their own PirateBay site which I can't wait for.


Link for lazy: http://torrentfreak.com/pirate-bay-wont-make-a-full-comeback-staff-revolt-150127/


Edit: been browsing the tpb, it's awfully slow. Granted it's probably being hit hard with traffic, but even before when it came back online it was never this slow.

Edit2: spelling TL;DR: The site is being relaunched without any moderators or admins. The moderators and admins of the pirate bay (from before its takedown) are peeved, saying that it can't possibly work without them, and to expect rampant malware and downtime. I never thought the malware ever stopped.
  
  
If the torrent link didnt have tons of good comments, i wouldnt download it anyway. Back to KAT, then. but kickass take moderation to a whole different level http://kickass.so/torrents/dmca/ Never understood why the govt is unable to touch KAT? Could you explain? 

Edit : spelling  Often the country where the physical servers are located don't have copyright laws or don't care about them, so when the police come a knocking, nothing happens because its all international stuff. American laws don't apply-type deal. So short of invading foreign soil and seizing stuff by force, there's nothing to be done. I don't know where KATs servers are, but I'd imagine its in a dcma haven.. Or its simply not being targeted yet.  &gt;So short of invading foreign soil and seizing stuff by force, there's nothing to be done. 

So that's what happened to Kimdotcom? Yes. Also, the FBI punched him. In the face. According to them it was to bring him to court, but when he got there they didn't have any new charges, so I think it was just to punch him. Precisely. New Zealand just doesn't have enough oil or militias to deter the FBI from their intimidation. Yeah, it's not like we couldn't deter him - it's more that our PM is very close to the US govt.

Interesting case. Public opinion pretty much supported him (at least in my age/stage of life), then he started trying to create a stupid arse political party and released an album.. weird dude. He lives about 3km from me and invites himself to my neighbours fireworks regularly  
  \\\_()_/  It's so strange to me that police are even bothered with this.

I'm beginning to wonder whether the best way to explore space is by convincing Hollywood that there are aliens out there somewhere who have intercepted satellite feeds of their movies. The only address they see is the IP balancer, so ideally it would be setup this way...

{YOU} -&gt; {Load Balancer Server} -&gt; [{Kat Servers 1}, {Kat Server 2} ...ect.. ]

So the load balancer also acts like a proxy server, thus hiding the true location of server 1...2 ect.. Usually the balancer maintains a cache of all the content it pulls from the server network (to maintain speed) but if the "govt" shuts them down, they will have time to build a new load balancer and reroute it all. 

If the ad revenues and general income is high enough, they could have multiple load balancers and make this whole thing even more complex. As for maintaining the servers, if they are all running using basic containers (OpenVz), then migrating them all takes one command and rarely any downtime. 
 You can just reupload them though and they won't take them down until more requests come in, so basically the content can be reuploaded until the whoever tires of doing so many dmca requests. I've been a KAT loyalist for years now. Of course, only when using AdBlock...  Just remember the site is "kickass.so" and not "kickasstorrents.so". The latter's website looks identical to the first but is essentially a honeypot.  The problem with kat is that they comply with dcma. Tons of stuff disappears from there but most people probably don't notice.  Means it's less likely to face heavy legal resistance than TPB though.  Why are the mods and admin pissed? Because many of them have been working on the site for 10-11 years and now one dude in control is basically telling them to fuck off. He's gonna try to run the most popular public torrent site with no staff and there's no way it will turn out good. Who is this one guy? One of the founders? Or are they in jail and they left this guy in charge? I'm just not sure on the situation here. I get that the mods and admin are mad. If it does end well that guy will be laughing straight to the bank. It says that they're going to use a backup of the site's code to build the new one. My brain would explode if the person trying to run it now filed for copyright infringement or something like that... This is sad. Only the Pirate Bay can destroy the Pirate Bay :( Barnes been shot 7 times, and he ain't dead! The only thing that can kill barnes, is barnes.  With blackjack.  And hookers. Actually, forget the blackjack. And only videos of hookers. Lots of videos of hookers Are they still hookers if I don't pay them? 

 Why not videos of hookers playing blackjack? Awesome.  Maybe they'll finally do something new and improve the site... Something their founders can be proud of.

Last I checked, at least one TPB founder hoped the site crashed and burned because the people they'd left in charge hadn't done anything new with it.  And maybe Google too. Some things are best left alone. Some changes are good, though.

Google is changing all the time.  You just don't see it.

In a similar vein, TPB started the shift from torrent files to magnet links.  How do you think the entirety of TPB can fit on a 200mb thumb drive?

Change can be good just as easily as it can be bad.  But to not change *at all*, even as an attempt to improve?  That's suicide.  So you could say they had a [mutiny?](http://youtu.be/0gciqpu5doA)
 Not really, most of the crew jumped ship though. Wait! They can't use the same name! That would be piracy!  They could name it...Washington Redskins The Piracy Bay! [Looks like I'm back to cautiously scanning the comments before every download.](http://youtu.be/AAEJedBQk7s?t=33s) For me the best part about thepiratebay were the comments... by a quick glance at them you'd be able to see whay exactly you're downloading and if it is any good.. Plus the arguments were kind of fun to read sometimes "IT'S A VIRUS. DO NOT DOWNLOAD"
...
"That's just the crack. Don't worry about it."
...
"VIRUUUUUUUUUUUS" Sound like a...mutiny. Yarr, bloody cursed mutineers. So, should we use it or not? Yes but with extreme caution.  The guys that left were mostly moderators responsible for removing false content, malware, and dead links.  Video and audio downloads should be OK (if they turn out to be genuine), but I'd avoid software downloads completely.  The site is essentially the same as before but without anyone moderating it.  I'm going to guess its going to fill up with a lot of shit pretty quickly. I was always cautious to begin with. I stuck to the things that were either completely safe-seeming or too minor for people to bother faking.  Those are often the best vectors though, not enough people checking the files for malware and not many alternatives. Just use older files  It's an older file, but it checks out. So.. Just read comments before downloading... Just like in the past..? What was the disagreement? Source please? http://torrentfreak.com/pirate-bay-wont-make-a-full-comeback-staff-revolt-150127/

Source Thanks. It doesn't give any details about what the core disagreement is, but it's informative. I wonder if it has to do with trying to create a system that leaves the least amount of people legally liable? Or maybe he knows one or more of the mods are moles and is cutting them all out as a precaution? Or maybe he's doing the opposite, sabotaging TPB? Hmmm... It sounds like they were fired.  It sounds like the guy just wants to maximize profits by making it a one man show. You'll note that this new version has no forums Correction: he fired everyone so he wouldn't have to share ad revenues What a fucking dick. None of the former staff are supporting this site, the owner seems to have given them the boot. I would be careful if using TPB, with no staff checking uploads there are likely going to be a lot of fakes/viruses/malware. More info [here](https://torrentfreak.com/pirate-bay-wont-make-a-full-comeback-staff-revolt-150127/) Really disappointed with the lack of information there.

Why did everyone get ousted? All we know is that the owner's an "asshole" and apparently treats people "like horseshit." Is it possible he didn't know who to trust and had to wipe the slate to be safe?

EDIT: word. this is a big deal, hopes this catches more attention Just checked and its actually 53 days. Fuck. OP you had one job! [OP's chandelier](http://i.imgur.com/7B448WS.jpg) Why are you at his house taking photos of his stuff? &lt;,&lt; Because fuck OP that's why His house is the best place for that, it's where his ass is. http://i.imgur.com/SxkOF.jpg http://i.imgur.com/wMEVYOu.gif It's like he's controlling it with his mind.  and you've just serendipitously acquired 2472+ comment karma for admitting your mistake. /r/theydidntdothemath i tried other sites, they didn't feel *right* Using them felt like I was cheating on Piratebay. It just felt wrong.  Like going to a different drug dealer.  ...who sells the same drugs because they have the same supplier.  That's *extra* dirty... but come to think of it *our* guy got arrested in this situation.  I just waited till he posted bail. Now, he needs me more than I need him.  Piratebay *is* the drug dealer we need and want. Just curious,  I don't need a Internet drug dealer, but how does someone buy drugs online and not have the police just show up at their house?  Hello fellow Reddits User FordTech, my Name is Micheal and I am a prince from Nigeria. I have the drugs you are looking for, Please forward you Home Adress, Socical Security Number and Banking Details. I have Marajuanas, Cocaines, Extcs.  
  
Thank You Greatly Brother,  
Prince Micheal I will take 3 Extcs pls. For a variety of reasons:

1.) It's a numbers game. There is WAY more illegal activity that the limited number of Police can ever hope to stop. Think about speeding. They probably only catch like 5% or less of speeders. 

2.) Police (traditionally) aren't very technologically savvy. So while Police may bait/catch a few people on Craigslist or obvious places... the more complex stuff like TOR or Silk Road is harder for them. They (Police) either don't have the skillsets or manpower or resources. 

3.) You're small time drug purchases are not worth their time. (Unless you're buying 1,000lb's of high-grade Heroin). 

 Man, it sucks when you don't have the right skillet. It's either too big and you're trying to find a way to stop the liquid ingredients from running all over the place or it's too small and you're just boned.   "Got them hot links! Pandemic Magnets!  Got that yify, uncut.  Got that 0-Day Comics pack.  Hot links!"   [deleted] Who the fuck uses .wmv? It was like switching hands. It didn't feel right, but it was all we had left. http://i.imgur.com/sPwgpLj.gif Dammit Var- Actually that's not a bad analogy. Kickass feels all kind of good. Ive prefered it even before Pb shutdown.  It has a much more limited... Library? Than PB. There was almost never anything I couldn't find on PB. The same cannot be said for Kickass. That's my only complaint about it though.  Or if I was looking for options I might find 5 links on kickass but 25 on PB. It's just the comfort of being able to choose. The little things.
 I used Kickass now when TPB was down, and I really like it, but nothing is quite like home. EDIT: I also use https://yts.re, the YIFY site, which is the site of YIFY torrents, my go-to movie people. I just used [torrentz.com](http://www.torrentz.com) and get links to PB, Kickass, torrenthound, h33t, and so many more.



[example](http://www.torrentz.com/0fa9748cec9326a71b5f1f94c8e05e38edd6e6e4)

Some of the newer torrents don't have PB links, so I chose a little older one that did, but I'm sure that will change now :) Seriously. I'm shocked most don't use it. I'll admit it too mainstream at times and you can't find specific things but dang, it hasn't fail me in a long time. You wouldn't torrentz a car! I just don't have a big enough 3D printer yet - give it time. Just 3D print  a bigger one.  The problem with kickass and torrentz is that they take down torrents if they're asked...TPB doesn't do that Didn't know Kickass took torrents down. Although Kickass is my go to site, mainly because you can see the most popular stuff on the main page so you know what major releases have just come out.  You're about to get so much shit for even taking the name of Yify. Whatever the hate, I love them because I don't have a 4K TV/monitor (only a small monitor), high U/D speeds or enough money to buy another 1TB hard drive (yeah, I'm a hoarder). That's enough reason for me to look at Yify and ignore other 4-16 GB files, *which I do not want*. Their quality is not bad when you look at the size. And I don't have a high-def TV or surround sound speakers to notice the difference. I like kickass for smaller things like songs and maybe a small "*video*" or two but it felt a little understocked. PB was my go-to source for tv shows movies and games Kickass is my go to if piratebay didn't have what I was looking for. Like Pepsi! kickass was life saver when TBP sunk.

Edit : after browsing through all  available sites,  I feared what would have done if kickass wasn't in game. Especially when downloading TV series or anime. Type in the name and it immediately pops up all files tagged for such series, including separate torrents for 480/720/1080p. Eztv...anyone? 
 For TV shows this is really the only site you need. For movies and whatnot, PB is my default. Nyaa and Bakabt have a much larger selection Same.I know the more torrent sites the better, but piratebay always felt like home And the first upload is "Russian sexy doctor...". Everything is as it should be. [Nope, something much more cool](https://i.imgur.com/dFUc3Zu.png) [Mirror](http://i.imgur.com/PzD2c8k.png)

;-) It's the logo that is now on the homepage of TPB as well. oh man. I want this for my ship in Elite: Dangerous. we need a 1080p version. Put it on a sexy multi-tone black cobalt/carbon fiber background....

Edit: [I tried](http://imgur.com/a/13OEW) Hmmm... two different entries about virgins in a row. What is it with TPB and virgins? There are so many virgins there, you'd think it was run by 4chan. Wizardchan* I was confused that anoter entry was highlighted than where the arrow points to. The arrow is points correctly. nuh-uh

The first upload is "Like a phoenix, it rises from the ashes".

edit: it downloads [this image](https://i.imgur.com/ZdqT2WX.png) That's just the announcement. I meant, like the first thing pirated.

Happy cake-day! Downloaded it and it's an image. Technicalities, I guess :P Phoenix logo now
 Phoenix is so hot right now fawkes yeah it is [Eh.](http://i.imgur.com/I5c4DRq.png) In Phoenix, can confirm Also in Phoenix. It's raining. Phoenix burns again in five months. [deleted] Hopefully it's a "risen from the ashes" symbolism and not a "we're going down and coming back in a regular cycle from now on" symbolism. as long as it always comes back to me again...i'm okay with that... Hmm, in the meantime I've gotten kinda used to using kickass torrents... It's okay to diversify your sources for illegal content. It's like having more than one drug dealer Sick meta, bro. Seriously... It took me a little bit but I now prefer it.  Same, I like how well organized it is, the fact that they have trailers for I think every movie up and the ads on the sides don't make feel awkward when someone comes into my room while I'm on it. Only thing that bothers me about kickass is the comments. On kickass 90% of the comments are just "omg thanks for the torrent!! ;) " and that retard shit is the whole comment. On the bay it's half assholes saying the torrent is being watched or ruining the end but the other half is actual opinions of the movie and the quality of the torrent.  You see ads...? Something must have gone horribly wrong with your setup.  Torrent connoisseur, doesn't know how to use ad block. So I shouldn't be using Netscape Navigator? I missed you, Piratebae &lt;3 Bae caught me seedin From the ashes  *[The Phoenix Bay](http://i.imgur.com/G3FMKGw.png)*

(I didn't make it. TPB posted it years ago). It's aliiiiiiiive! Should I be suspicious of this? I want to believe it's the same, but something in the back of my head says something is wrong here... Or am I just being paranoid? You might be right. This "new" isn't run by the original guys. Read more here: http://torrentfreak.com/pirate-bay-wont-make-a-full-comeback-staff-revolt-150127/ Correction: not *all* of them, just some of them.

Source: your source. Aha! I'm always right. 

Apart from those times when I was wrong but they don't count. They have a CloudFlare SSL cert. This means that your traffic is decrypted at Cloudflare. This means that if you log in, or visited the site with your login cookie still there, anyone who has served Cloudflare with a warrant or NSL now knows that you is you.

The original crew would never have done that. Paranoid,

They have kept in constant contact with what was happening. Not to mention that this has happened many, many times before.  It's probably run by the government now, logging everything in advance of global take down on torrenters.  It seems that you've been living two lives. One life, you're timewaster, program writer for a respectable software company. You have a social security number, pay your taxes, and you... help your landlady carry out her garbage. The other life is lived in computers, where you go by the hacker alias "extreme" and are guilty of virtually every computer crime we have a law for. One of these lives has a future, and one of them does not. I'm gonna give you the finger, and I want my phone call. What good is a phone call if you are unable to speeeakkk? MMMMMMMMMMMM! MMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMM! Not like dis You're going to help us, Mr. Timewaster. Whether you want to or not. One day we will get a entire movie on here. I can't wait for that day! http://i.imgur.com/6VTlY5V.gif When I first saw that, I thought they literally meant that Neo was living two lives and that's how they found him [Mr. Anndderrsson](http://youtu.be/XooISvoZ_rs) Mr. Anderson just sounds like gibberish now... MISS DE'RANDESON You made me just want to go watch the Matrix Trilogy again... damn you, there goes my Saturday There is no trilogy.  Only one movie was made. This is bullshit because a lot of people say not to watch the other matrix movies but then they proceed to talk about it. 

DO I WATCH IT OR NOT??

I decided that I will watch them due to the fact that I can't live with myself knowing I could die not knowing what everyone is talking about You watch the whole trilogy once. After you realized that the second and the third movie were "not-so-goodish" you rewatch the first movie and be happy with it. Watch it, and then have your own opinion. There is no need to run the site to log it's users, we can see that from snowden leaks.  I noticed they are on Cloudflare. I wonder how long until Cloudflare is pressured to kick them off. They were on Cloudflare before, they are also paying customers why would they kick them off their Network? 

Also this https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/CloudFlare#Reputation Wonder why they changed the logo? Maybe they don't have the copyright to the ship Nobody gets this joke apparently. It's a phoenix, risen from the ashes  Best joke in the thread  It's a trap? Can't stop the signal  the only thing is this piratebay is no longer run by the same admins or mods. If i find the source ill edit my comment. Here's a source, dont know if it's your source but

http://torrentfreak.com/pirate-bay-wont-make-a-full-comeback-staff-revolt-150127/ Whats a pirates favorite letter of the alphabet? P, cuz it's like an R except it's missing a leg. Well I'll be damned to the plank.  And without they'd be irate! And a brand new host because it's no longer blocked in UK for the time being! Yeah... cloudflare, who is also terminating (decrypting) the SSL. Hopefully they aren't honeydicking everyone ...And its back down again... HONEYPOT 

HONEYPOT 

HONEYPOT This just *reeks* of a honeypot Have used kickass.so long before piratebay went down. I find it has a much bigger availability of series.

At least the ones i'm watching. OMG thank you, my computer illiterate boyfriend has accumulated SOOO much Malware/Adware and Trojans since its been down! I have had to clean his computer 2x.  What are the chances of a honey pot It's down again.  Thank fuck for that. My ship has been wandering the seas for far too long. Time to dock! YAAAARRR Its down again. Praise allah I'm going to move away from this thread before the drones get here... Allahu Akbar [*Whirrr*](http://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/General_Atomics_MQ-1_Predator#/image/File:MQ-1_Predator_unmanned_aircraft.jpg) I should've listened Pirate Bay is proof that Allah loves us, and wants us to be happy.  And wants us to download videos of a girl getting railed in a burkha  Can you draw me a picture of that, I didn't understand the words? ... you realize that Allah is the Christian god too right?

That was mohamed that everyone was drawing to protest (or be edgy). maybe you ought to draw allah and take a trip to the middle east? I promise you, if you draw something that is supposed to be Allah; it will not go down well.  Technically God is depicted on tv and movies all the time like simposons, Morgan Freeman etc All you need to do now is pray that Allah convinces Muslims to stop murdering everyone and the would will be at peace That worldn't wok. Yeah, I agree. That idea simply won't fry.  why can't peaple just be rice to eachother? Do you even watch the news, that is not what he wants.    Still wouldn't be at peace, though.

EDIT: I'm Muslim. Take your downvotes somewhere else.  We also need whatever God the majority of Russians believe in to convince the Russians to stop murdering other countries as well Also ukraine to stop killing russians in easter ukraine I feel her love too.  Bottoms up, and the devil laughs Alhamdulillah!

It won't go down again inshallah Praise abba Warning: this new site wont have any moderation. Expect fakes, trojans &amp; viruses aplenty.
https://torrentfreak.com/pirate-bay-wont-make-a-full-comeback-staff-revolt-150127/ I hope the former mods decide to make the next site pirate themed.


Btw your post needs to be upvoted. People need to read this article. Sorry kickass.so, the wife is back. should we trust it [deleted] Good point. Can you hear that, it sounds kinda like, "HONEYPOT!" Not much point in a honeypot for things that aren't anonymous.  Magnets decentralize torrents from the search site.  Torrents by nature are far from anonymous.  No real benefit to this being a honeypot. 
That's (again) a honeypie
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BTuOAPE-LOo Don't u mean honeypie?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BTuOAPE-LOo 51 days?  Area 51? Aliens. only 51 days? it feels like it's been almost a year.. It really does! (or at least a couple months! Glad it's back after being down THE WHOLE WINTER BREAK I COULD HAVE SPENT TORRENTING OFF CAMPUS Do you not know about kickass torrents? There are a lot of torrent sites out there.... Ooops it seems we killed the Pirate Bay..  So if all the PB torrents can be downloaded as an offline repository, what stopped someone putting up an exact copy of piratebay that works, in the last 53 days? Nobody would rent servers out of fear? Could it not have been done in a country where government does not give as much shit as the US one? 
 I'm not sure if you're being serious, but TONS of sites did exactly what you're talking about - Old Pirate Bay being the most popular. I used OPB, kickass etc but it wasn't as good. Not even the "feel" of it but just the sheer numbers of seeders. It was coming up to 40K on PB for some torrents, elsewhere I saw maybe 4-5k max on highest ranking torrents. Right - their userbase fragmented to lots of different sites.

You were asking what was stopping people from putting up a copy of TPB - the real problem was that it was so easy that there were too many options (not even counting the existing competitors). I can get a faster download with 100 seeders and 30 leeches than 40 thousand seeders and 30000 leeches Sounds like a ratio problem. 0.3 vs 0.75, quite the disparity. I use kickass all the time for loads of stuff.

Much like whatcd, it doesn't have everything, but it does have a lot of stuff that other places don't. Nothing is stopping anyone from doing that. Personally I downloaded the backup and imported everything into a sqlite3 database with a simple search feature to run TPB from my home computer. &gt; Nobody would rent servers out of fear?

I know, right? Every time TPB rents a server located in an nuclear blast-proof Cold War bunker, when police eventually come knocking, the owners just open the door rather than use these spectacular fortifications to see how long and bloody a siege might go for. Maybe what's missing from these facilities is an armed weapon of mass destruction located next to the servers. If being under a mountain guarantees nobody could get in before the doomsday bomb could be set off, then the company could guarantee uptime in the face of government threats. It really says something about the state of this industry that revenue from Internet ads isn't enough to pay for acts of treason on behalf of customer service. Pretty sure it was done. By the Isohunt guys. It still just wasn't the same though. Nothing would stop them, many did. Well you you did have oldpiratebay.org A few did.  The most notable copy was at http://thepiratebay.com.ua/ [Nothing.](http://www.oldpiratebay.org)  I thought this was what everyone used during the downtime.  There were loads of pirate bay clones up the day after the raid. Just because you have the torrents doesn't mean you have the site code or architecture available to restore it.  There's much more to a site at the scale of tpb than just the data. If you're running a site like this, you'd think of the possibility that you will eventually get raided. Why not to back up everything somewhere on cloud, remote servers etc. I'd keep at least 3 full backups and few people informed to restore it all when I get busted.

It's just bit weird that it took so long.
 The Phoenix is brilliant It's appropriate.  Brilliant is pushing it. The word you're looking for is predictable.  could this be a shell to get the information of pirates like what happened after silk road went down? It's likely, but nothing is certain. It's safe as it ever was if you just use a VPN. Important parts:

**No throttling, fast lanes, may apply to mobile as well:**
&gt;These enforceable, bright-line rules will ban paid prioritization, and the blocking and throttling of lawful content and services. I propose to fully applyfor the first time everthose bright-line rules to mobile broadband. 

**Title II**
&gt;I am proposing that the FCC use its Title II authority to implement and enforce open internet protections. 

&gt;To preserve incentives for broadband operators to invest in their networks, my proposal will modernize Title II, tailoring it for the 21st century, in order to provide returns necessary to construct competitive networks. For example, there will be no rate regulation, no tariffs, no last-mile unbundling. The inclusion of mobile broadband on that list is HUGE since it's always been excluded from previous attempts at regulation. It almost sounds like this categorically puts "internet providers" in one place whether it's mobile, satellite, fiber, or copper. It's up to your company to decide how to deliver internet service (and the business pros and cons), but you cannot fuck with that service on the backend to create lucrative walled gardens. If you would like to join me in showing your support for mobile carriers under Title II, please consider contacting Tom.

If you don't know what to say, you may find this helpful. If you're too lazy to copy and paste, you can quickly fill out/customize this, click the email button to open it in your email and send it off: https://www.sincerelyme.org/technology-and-science/support-mobile-carriers-under-title-ii_i43

It takes no more than 20 seconds - and it's an easy way to help ensure Title II is actually passed.


EDIT: You can email it to Tom directly at Tom.Wheeler@fcc.gov

-------

Dear {Mr., Chairman} Wheeler,

First off, thank you for showing your support of the American public. Reclassifying Internet Service Providers under Title II is a huge step for ensuring the continued growth and success of American technology. I think this move is a good step for not only the American public, but business as well. It will ensure everyone has fair access to one of our most valuable resources for a long time.

It is my understanding that you are also proposing mobile carriers to be included under Title II. I am writing to express my support for this decision. Mobile carriers are no longer the voice and text services they once were and fair access to mobile data is just as important as traditional carriers.

Sincerely,

{Your Name} I don't recommend using form letters. They get lumped together, thrown out, feel cheap, reduce the power of the message, are lazy engagement, etc. Try this instead if you don't know what to say:

A) Get a six sided die

B) Start email with this: *Dear {Mr., Chairman} Wheeler,*

C) Roll the dice six times, whichever number comes up, in whatever order, write out a sentence with that sentiment (re-rolling repeats). Use personal language or details where you can, stating how this will effect you when possible:

1. State your support for the Title II classification
2. Thank him for taking net neutrality seriously, and for using careful consideration
3. Express that you see your phone and your home computer as using the same internet
4. Ask for inclusion of of mobile in the Title II classification
5. Mention that you are worried that your choices will be reduced with internet fast lanes, including on your phone
6. Declare that this is an important issue for you and you are feeling positive about the FCC's actions so far

D) End the email with "Sincerely," or "Thank your for your time,"

For example, I just rolled 2,4,3,5,6,1. My email is:

---
Dear Chairman Wheeler,

Thank you for the attention you have given net neutrality. I am writing because I want to assure you include mobile internet under Title II classification. For me the internet is the internet, whether on my mac or my iphone. Having internet fast lanes concerns me because I will have less choices on either device. As someone who makes a living from digital media, the statements and actions you have taken so far are encouraging. Seeing the FCC classify the internet under Title II would be an excellent sign of progress.

Thank you for your time,

NotSafeForShop Just so you know, Jeff, you are now creating six different timelines. Well, it's looking like we're not in the darkest timeline. [Don't be so sure.](http://imgur.com/EttZj8d) [This is indeed a disturbing universe.](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=liuSbrghzmk) That implies that there are only 6 different ways of rolling.  There are in fact 6! or 720 different ways of rolling.  720 new timelines have been created.  The FCC recognized his letter as being valid in 2 of them. Yes, you are correct. I believe it was a community reference though Instructions unclear, mailed the FCC a six-sided die I like this, this should be a way we do things, we nee to write this down. On paper? Sending him thousands of copies of the same email is not as helpful as you'd think. Remember how they replied to all the website comments? [I tweeted T-mobile's CEO](https://twitter.com/Shirtwascash/status/563047847537704962) to use this as an opportunity to be awesome again and support Wheeler. People should advise them to support it since they're the most unlike Verizon &amp; AT&amp;T. Legere has already stated that he is against Title II classification, though he has to double speak at times to continue to appear to be "for the people". 

http://www.theverge.com/2014/11/10/7190109/do-you-want-net-neutrality-or-not-john-legere He's a CEO. If it sees it as inevitable and/or his competitors will fight it anyway... he may do it at least for the PR and profit. He's consistently breaking the other companies self-imposed restrictions to attract new users. I'm not arguing that, but it's better than doing nothing. 

At the very least, it's an indication of support.  Even if they don't read all of them, they at least know people care.  It's a lot like a petition - except it actually makes it to someones inbox. I sent him an email.  A lot less wordy and legalese-y.  Just a simple:

&gt;Dear Mr. Wheeler,

&gt;I'm not going to give you yet another form letter; just going to be short and sweet:  Thanks for supporting Title II reclassification and Net Neutrality and proving that you are, in fact, not a dingo. :)

&gt;- [my name] from [my city/state]

 This part

&gt;no rate regulation, no tariffs, no last-mile unbundling

Is pretty bad, I was hoping last-mile unbundling would happen, as it would allow smaller ISPs to come into what is currently a one telecom market in a particular area.

So if you are stuck with Comcast you will still be stuck with Comcast. Not quite. No last-mile unbundling just means that new/smaller ISPs will still have to roll out new lines instead of using line laid out by Comcast. It's not ideal, but it's definitely better than what we have now where, for the most part, those smaller ISPs can't exist in the first place. This has already been a thing, though. This part of the proposal, is literally ensuring these companies do maintain their monopoly and will not be forced to ever bust it. This is exactly the wolf in sheep's clothing people are worried about.

Even Wheeler's own story about his startup talks about this. About how the government forced IBM to let other small startups tap into their network and scale out their own to create more access and competition to the phone network. What's happening here, is the exact opposite. They are now going to be legally protected from that.

This proposal is just going to make it harder to compete against the monopolies. It's exactly what they want in the long term. That's why they agreed on taking some losses, to gain even more in the long run. 

If you remember, one of the big initial things about Title II was how it broke up the IBM (or was it ATT? Who cares.) monopoly. That at the time they owned the entire network, and were refusing other's into the network. So basically, if you wanted to use a non-local phone network, you'd HAVE to pay this monopoly. Which meant they charged as much as they wanted (huge, HUGE rates), and had no incentive to really improve the service. 

Then they were forced to allow access to their backbone, which rapidly scaled out the network as a whole, as well as dramatically dropped the prices all over.

This new proposal is going to prevent the same thing happening to the internet. Now, if we want competition, it'll also have to create an entirely new network.  This also allows the FCC to create even more regulations in the future to further ensure the status quo of the major ISP monopolies (read: the ones who practically own the FCC now).

So they lost being able to directly charge Netflix for peering, they can make it up by getting rid of their "value" internet tier which is no longer classified as broadband and forcing those customers to pay more for the "super charged!" (up to*) 20mbps down/3mbps up plan. Yeah, that's one of the primary things most people are missing here. It's not just what can be done, or what will be done, it's more about the precedent and culture this creates. Now it's understood that we can't touch their monopoly, even though we can tough other things which have very little impact on the bigger picture.  I'm no expert on it really, but what would be different under Title II for small ISPs from what is there now?  Is there currently something keeping them from expanding? Small ISPs now resell DSL, or can get access to phone cable plant with their own equipment (see sonic.net for an example) at tariffed, wholesale, rates.  With these rules, they can't do that anymore, so they will have to raise much more capital to get off the ground.
I was hoping last mile unbundling would expand under title II to cable companies.

If this passes, competition will be reduced, not increased.  We got net neutrality at the cost of any kind of competition. Small ISPs have not been selling DSL for quite a while now.  [They changed the rules and all the DSL CLECS went out of business.](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Competitive_local_exchange_carrier#Important_FCC_Rulings) That was my biggest concern with everyone pushing Title II and what not. I was hoping people would wise up and push something like a municipal exchange where the city runs and owns fiber to the house. ISPs, cable, and phone companies would then run their lines to the facility and lease secured space inside for equipment. Consumers would then pick between say Comcast, Charter, AT&amp;T, Cogent, and so on based on their needs.  &gt;To preserve incentives for broadband operators to invest in their networks, **my proposal will modernize Title II**, tailoring it for the 21st century, in order to provide returns necessary to construct competitive networks. For example, there will be no rate regulation, no tariffs, no last-mile unbundling.

Can anyone explain this to me, and why this is good/bad? 

I'm for net neutrality. The bolded part worries me mostly. What does this mean? What changes to the original Title II regulation were applied to modernize it? Did he mean something else with modernizing, such as to merely apply it to the future? Or did he actually change Title II, and who's gonna benefit from it?

Additionally, I'm not familiar enough with rate regulation, tariffs, last-mile unbundling and stuff. Could someone concisely explain these terms to me? 

Thanks very much in advance! That section is somewhere between the way things are and not so great. No rate regulation and no tarrifs means he's not going to regulate the way companies charge at all. If they want to charge by the byte or a flat fee of $1000/month, it's not the FCC's problem.

No last-mile unbundling means that ISPs won't be forced to share their infrastructure.  So your local monopoly is likely to stay a local monopoly unless some new company comes in and decides to lay new cable. That's the shittiest part for sure.  It's his way of pleasing the ISPs.  It may undo all the good he is attempting to do with the other efforts.

If ISPs start charging for internet the way mobile carriers do, there's no point in making a more open internet.  It'll effectively be a way they can gate it.  Don't charge for data for using your streaming service, but charge $100/month for 1GB of regular usage. 

Shitty. Historically speaking, unbundling the last mile will mean that no corporation will invest in upgrading the existing infrastructure. The only way that works is if you simultaneously get a Congressional commitment to have the government pay for it; which is something the FCC can't control. (And, historically speaking, you're still better off allowing local governments to lay infrastructure while allowing companies to create their own infrastructure and profit from it if the government is laying down on the job.)

Last-mile unbundling works for infrastructure that is technological stable. That simply isn't the case with data transmission: If we'd passed these regulations 15 years ago, nobody would have fiber today. If we pass them today, it will stifle the next technological advance. In most places the municipalities have already made agreements with the ISPs to lay the infrustructure in the first place, typically in exchange for tax cuts, payouts, and exclusivity deals for the area. I have no idea how many, but a *lot* of areas would surely not have the broadband access they do if it were not for the government contracting it out to these companies to begin with so I see nothing, at all, changing here.  Meh, progress is incremental.  There's already no last mile unbundling and no rate regulation.  That's the current state but nobody out there is charging  $100 per GB.  If it was economically feasible to do that they'd already be doing it. However, previously no one was even allowed to CONSIDER laying new cable. Is this not one of Google's biggest barriers right now? I believe the biggest barrier for Google is that they don't have access to the utility poles so they have to bury their cable.  If they get access to the poles they have stated that they can start putting in fiber at a much faster rate.  It's a lot easier to put some wires overhead than it is to put it in the ground. Which is a pity, as everyone should be putting their wires underground.  Far more secure and less affected by weather events. But much more expensive. So for X dollars you can do 1 city underground or you can do 4 cities above ground.  [Title II of the Communications Act of 1934](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Communications_Act_of_1934) gave the FCC power to regulate "[common carriers](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Common_carrier)" within the communications industry. The current specifications regulating common carriers are written for the older telecommunications industry that includes telephones and television, which greatly differs from that of the Internet. The modernization he refers to is updating the Title II regulations governing common carriers to properly encapsulate the Internet. 

It's difficult to say what exactly this will entail until the official FCC plan is released. Congress gave the FCC immense power to regulate common carriers within Title II. The fact he says that there won't be rate regulation means we won't see internet service turning into something like your water or electric bill. The focus of his article is on the free flow of (legal) information to and from consumers, so it seems likely that regulating that flow will be the initial goal of the FCC. Verizon won't be allowed to throttle Netflix anymore. At the same time, we'll have to see how the regulation of [peering](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Peering) is managed. How far up the pipes will the regulation of data flow go? Won't the no throttling effect a company like Netflix? They are currently paying ISP's *not* to downgrade their traffic, hopefully they will pass the savings on to the consumer.  One of the details that many people are interested in is the topic of [peering](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Peering) and how the FCC will regulate it (if at all) using its Title II authority.  And really, if they don't get the regulations on the peering, it's not worth much. ELI5? The internet is a grouping of networks. they have to have peering points, which is basically the point when one network and another connect and exchange data. once such point (for example) would be the comcast-seattle to cogent peering location. There is where comcast's internal seattle network, links up with cogent.

cogent is the network netflix uses. its basically like comcast, but designed from the ground up to cover mass distances with big data links. these are called transit providers. they mainly link up regional networks like the ones comcast has.

The idea behind peering abuse, is you can throttle somebody  by just not upgrading your peering links with their isp or transit providers. doing this to netflix would affect all of cogent's customers, but netflix is by far their biggest.

So when a medium sized peer link is now exchanging a volume of traffic that requires a big sized peer link, and everything is getting slowed down because of this, you just... don't upgrade the peer link, and let things continue to be slow.

Its not technically throttling, so it doesn't hit already existing regulations. Than when you tell them it will be a big gigantic fee to upgrade the peer link (orders of magnitude more than cost of parts and labor) its not paid prioritization, its just charging a peer upgrade fee several times higher than what you normally charge networks. &gt; Its not technically throttling, so it doesn't hit already existing regulations. Than when you tell them it will be a big gigantic fee to upgrade the peer link (orders of magnitude more than cost of parts and labor) its not paid prioritization, its just charging a peer upgrade fee several times higher than what you normally charge networks.

I want to add that this is not an abstract idea, and is currently happening, in case anyone was wondering.

http://blog.level3.com/open-internet/verizons-accidental-mea-culpa/ &gt; Its not technically throttling

It is functionally throttling though. And regulations usually have a way of dealing with loopholes like this by using appropriately broad language, e.g. "shall not have the effect of throttling" or something. Am curious what the FCC rule will say precisely. Yes. I think we should all continue to hold our breaths until the actual regulations get published, and the good people at the EFF *et alia* return an opinion on them. &gt;Using this authority, I am submitting to my colleagues the strongest open internet protections ever proposed by the FCC. These enforceable, bright-line rules will ban paid prioritization, and the blocking and throttling of lawful content and services. I propose to fully applyfor the first time everthose bright-line rules to **mobile broadband**. 

What about home broadband? It's going to apply to landlines anyway, he is just bringing mobile under the same regulations. (something they are not happy about, but Version has shown it's needed with their super-cookies...)  Thank you. Oh happy day! Super-Cookies? Basically a device ID stored on the ISP side accessible by websites so they can track you without using client-side cookies. Let me get my coat because it just started freezing in hell! This is great news and even better that mobile data is being included!

No doubt the big telecos are going to sue, but I'd love to know what leg that have to stand on because the courts said that the FCC couldn't enforce net neutrality rules without reclassifying under Title II.

There is one disappointment though, no last-mile unbundling. This is important because it would force Comcast, Verizon, etc to lease their lines to other providers thus spurring competition due to new providers springing up. I really hope this gets reconsidered in the near future. &gt; There is one disappointment though, no last-mile unbundling. This is important because it would force Comcast, Verizon, etc to lease their lines to other providers thus spurring competition due to new providers springing up. I really hope this gets reconsidered in the near future.

I join your disappointment! (As soon as I read that line, I thought "where have I seen that term before?") Here's one argument against last-mile unbundling: https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=8997777.  Relevant section:

&gt; Unbundling kills investment into the network, because why spend billions of dollars on infrastructure that you'll have to lease out at wholesale prices to your competitors?
&gt; 
&gt; My theory is that unbundling is what killed DSL as a competitor to cable here in the U.S. FTTN has been quite successful in the U.K.,as a gradual scheme for building fiber further into the network, with a last-hop of VDSL that can get faster as it gets shorter. There has been little FTTN deployment here in the U.S., because there's just no way for telcos to recoup the billions of dollars spent on fiber if they're forced to lease the VDSL at the other end to competitors for a song.

I don't necessarily agree, but the argument seems to make some sense, at least. Well I mean I would buy that argument more if the telcos had actually used the money the government gave them originally to invest into infrastructure. [deleted] You mean like how AT&amp;T was broken up and then half the Baby Bells merged into Verizon and AT&amp;T? Our main telco company in Germany, Deutsche Telekom, is forced to provide unbundled access since 1998. They complain consistently and bring up exactly the same arguments. Unbundling hurts investment, unbundling isn't profitable etc. At the same time, they have no problem deploying FTTN+VDSL (e.g. I get 50/10). Big companies are just trying to keep their monopolies. &gt;I personally learned the importance of open networks the hard way. In the mid-1980s I was president of a startup, NABU: The Home Computer Network.

*They thought they had an inside man. A former lobbyist, a puppet under control, seated at the top of the FCC. Through him, they would ensure complete domination of the internet, locking out the threats to their cable empire.*

*But their puppet had a secret. A plan for revenge for the murder of his startup by the very companies he now served. Now, when they least expect it, he will strike.*

*This Summer, Tom Wheeler is out for blood. Telecom blood...in* 

**Net Teutrality II: NABU's vengence**
 This is pretty funny, but people should really read the full anecdote in the article; it's fascinating and shows not only that the openness of a service (and lack of openness of another service) affected what kind of product could be brought to the market, but that it affected Tom Wheeler personally.

&gt; I personally learned the importance of open networks the hard way. In the mid-1980s I was president of a startup, NABU: The Home Computer Network. My company was using new technology to deliver high-speed data to home computers over cable television lines. Across town Steve Case was starting what became AOL. NABU was delivering service at the then-blazing speed of 1.5 megabits per secondhundreds of times faster than Cases company. We used to worry about you a lot, Case told me years later.

&gt; But NABU went broke while AOL became very successful. Why that is highlights the fundamental problem with allowing networks to act as gatekeepers.

&gt; While delivering better service, NABU had to depend on cable television operators granting access to their systems. Steve Case was not only a brilliant entrepreneur, but he also had access to an unlimited number of customers nationwide who only had to attach a modem to their phone line to receive his service. The phone network was open whereas the cable networks were closed. End of story. Imagine if we had 1.5 mbps back then (given openness to cable)? We'd be up there with SK now with 1gbps in many places I bet. Holy crap, that figuratively blew my mind.  I had no idea there was technology capable of delivering that kind of speed in the mid fucking 80s! It wouldn't have taken many seconds to transfer your entire HD.  Oh damn, HDs weren't even common until the late 80s.  You'd be transferring like.. those big floppy disks or something.  I'm not sure how much they stored, but the 3.5 inch floppies were 1.44 mb in the 90s... The bottleneck would be the read-speed of the floppy drive. Which means we might not have bothered with floppies and just stored everything on our hugemungous 20MB drives. Well, if we had a spare $700 or so.  Which is like $1500 today. If internet delivers faster speeds than your drive at the time, cloud storage could have brutalized the consumer market for storage. But those same read speeds would dictate the upload speed of the cloud services, so it would have been just as bad... Also 1.5 mb/s down doesn't mean the upload wasn't shit. Not if they have an array.

Back in the day I had a friend in this situation. An open OC line could saturate a mother board nvm a drive. But you could get close to cap by using multiple machines with raid. (Probably the only guy that had 2TB of anime back in .... before universities had internet security and people could use the full pipe) At&amp;t still thinks this is blazing fast internet in my suburb. The only option as well. Fortunately, until recently, they were legally allowed to call this "Broadband" and accept federal funding for it.  Now they can't do that shit anymore.  There's nothing to say that they will bother with better infrastructure rollouts into areas like yours and mine, but one can hope.  I'm just hoping that this proposal will allow other people to swoop in and build infrastructure so that I can jump ship. That fuckin long con....lmao

If this this is actually how the net neutrality issue is handled.....holy shit that is brilliant.  Motherfuckin 'bama playing chess while we're all playin checkers.  Again. He still won't top the brilliance of the 'super committee'. That was some crafty leading.

Edit: Back in 2011, congress was holding a gun to the WH's head with the debt crisis thing. Obama resolved this by coming up with a concept of this 'super-committee' which was basically a subset of congress (only 12 people) from both parties to make the decision in exchange the crisis was put off. Congress agreed because Obama said he'd sign whatever they came up with (effectively handing congress more power). 

The brilliant part was that he set it up so that if they could never come to a decision, it would fail to a preset.... a preset that he devised. He bet that congress would never be able to agree, not even 12 of them and was right. Out of this 'default' option, he got I believe the biggest military cut in US history along with many other concessions. Concessions that he wouldn't have possibly gotten if he hadn't basically just used congress' own lust for power against them. People who tend to underestimate Obama and his team often get a nasty surprise, like McCain and Romney. The election campaigns convinced me that Obama is much more than meet the eyes which most of his detractors and enemies refused to acknowledge. But then his enemies do tend to keep themselves in a reality distortion bubble anyway; their racism blinded them to his capabilities. I don't need superpowers, just give me a stupid opponent any time. It's funny because I actually didn't know anything about Wheeler other than what I heard on reddit (which I tried not to let guide me, but probably did). Then I read that anecdote and was like "you know, this guy, despite whatever his 'lobbyist' role was, has a personal reason to want open free internet. I wonder how many reddit hacks actually knew about his whole telecom past." To me, someone who was effectively screwed out of his first business by a lack of open access is the perfect person to have defend and create open access since they have personal experience with it. CNET did a great article on him a few days ago.  Definitely opened my eyes on his background.  [link](http://www.cnet.com/news/why-fccs-wheeler-is-defying-the-greatest-lobbyists-in-the-world/)

&gt;Wheeler supporters also point out that it's been 31 years since he lobbied for the cable industry and 11 years since he left the wireless industry. To put things in perspective, Apple Computer had just introduced the Macintosh and "Ghostbusters" was the hit of the year when Wheeler left his post as the head of NCTA.

&gt;"He is no more a former lobbyist than I am a former high school student," said Reed Hunt, a fellow Democrat who served as FCC chairman from 1993 to 1997.

and

&gt;In 1984, the then-38-year-old Wheeler took over NABU Network, which offered specially designed home computers that could access news, games and other applications through the cable television network. The National Museum of Science and Technology later described the network as the "Internet -- 10 years ahead of its time." A few blocks from NABU's Alexandria, Va., office, 27-year-old Steve Case was working on a similar project that tapped into the telephone network, which Wheeler derided as inferior.

&gt;"We used to look down our noses at them because they were so slow," Wheeler recalled in a half- hour-long interview last month.

&gt;But it was Case's company, America Online, that became an Internet titan during the dot-com boom. NABU folded in 1985. The difference between the two approaches? Wheeler's company relied on a closed network.

&gt;"Steve [Case] could build a national footprint immediately, and we had to go from cable operator to cable operator to ask permission to get on the network," said Wheeler. "That is exactly the situation that entrepreneurs face today. If you can't have open access to the Internet, innovation is thwarted and new services grind to a halt." Annnnnd, we're done here, folks.  The reddit hivemind can collectively move on and ignore how very, very wrong they were in their prognostications of doom upon his appointment.  

But seriously, can everyone take a moment to review the over-confident claims made by people who knew next to nothing and try to learn from it in the future? We've been at this for months now, the original proposal was not et neutral in any way, he's only now doing what he should have been doing all along after we've posted hundreds of thousands of comments, called senators and sent mail, and you think we were wrong to worry? No, there was every reason to be skeptical and up until very recently (post Obama's net neutrality support, basically) he was behaving just like one would expect of a telecom lobbyist.  He gave no indication that we were headed anywhere good.  Maybe he was always planning that we would?  Or maybe he had to do a 180 due to the overwhelming support for true net neutrality, and was planning to give the ISP's a big ole sloppy wet BJ.

We should praise him for what he does now, but that doesn't mean we never should have been skeptical.  And we should keep being skeptical until it gets done. I agree. And it looks like some of the parts of this plan are still being written the way they are in order to please telecoms... a bunch of comments here are talking about how this isn't as good as it sounds. [Here](http://www.reddit.com/r/technology/comments/2urjdo/fcc_chairman_tom_wheeler_this_is_how_we_will/cob3f5n) for instance. I think we were right to be skeptical and we still should be. We should be calling the FCC and asking them for an even *better* consumer-friendly solution. To be fair, the United States government has an unambiguous bias towards making regulatory changes that are favorable to capital holders. This is an exception to that rule, but it's not unreasonable for Americans to have assumed that a change of a similar nature would be proposed here, or that Wheeler would eventually cowtow to those same interests. That's pretty sad that the fastest I can get where I live is what they had in the mid 1980's :( At least lobster exists. So there's that. They thought they had a dingo guarding our baby. Tom Wheeler is not a dingo. There's at least a chance he might not be a dingo. I'm happy with that. Still hesitant to trust a potential dingo though.  Might turn out in the end to not be a dingo?
That's as far as I want to go right now. He might not end up being "the peoples champion" on the issue, but he came out as pro Net neutrality and his proposal is against fast lanes and other anti net neutrality propositions. 

Your right as time will tell, but someone that wanted to end net neutrality would not do this.  Back in April, 2014, Wheeler gave a speech to cable companies.  It contained a bit of foreshadowing.

&gt; **All options are on the table**.  
Source:  http://youtu.be/bMPqOTFvJqQ?t=2m0s


Then he offers more foreshadowing, implicitly alluding to NABU:

&gt; **I know in my bones how hard it is to start a company with innovative ideas.**
Source:  http://youtu.be/bMPqOTFvJqQ?t=9m0s

Then he basically says *fuck the foreshadowing*:

&gt; **Let me be clear.   If someone acts to divide the internet between haves and have-nots, we will use every power at our disposal to stop it.  And I consider that includes Title II.**  
Source:  http://youtu.be/bMPqOTFvJqQ?t=10m8s

Of course the speech got pretty much no attention at the time.


EDIT:  Keep in mind, this was the convention for the [National Cable Telecommunications Association.](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/National_Cable_%26_Telecommunications_Association)  He's at *their* meeting, on *their* turf, and basically **tells them to their faces** that he's perfectly willing to fuck them over soon.  You can't say he didn't warn them. Ol' *Tommy Wheels* with the slow burn, bait and switch, plot twist on those very same Cable companies that squashed him and his startup 30 years ago.
 Net Teutrality II: Electric NABU
 BREAKING: Dingo actually guarding the baby. Dingo relates how its baby dingo was eaten by chubacabras, vows to never let it happen again. Civilians = babies, political appointee = dingo, and evil coperations = chubacabras? Sounds eerily accurate. The baby dingo is wheelers old ISP he started in the 80s that was killed by the closed nature of cable providers. Guess he really didn't want to be [called a dingo](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hkjkQ-wCZ5A) anymore. Kudos on actually bowing to public pressure for once.  This is exactly how our leaders should work- what's best for the people reguardless of the money involed.  We just need to bully them into doing their job apparently. Or it was a master stroke: enrage the public, get massive public attention, bring up demand for Title II, and then, finally, riding that wave, seriously propose Tier II, eroding negotiating power of the telcos. He's getting revenge for his old ISP company failing In it for the long con. I want to believe this soooo damn badly.  Basically a narritive akin to that of the old nerd from high school now owning his former bully's life.  I want to believe that, but I will not until this has been seen through to the end. I mean, you have to realize that behind closed doors, Wheeler had to be saying "fuck these carriers, I'm sick of their shit." I think he may have been reluctant, hoping he could just putz about being a bureacrat for his term. But when "fast lanes" became the latest way to gouge consumers, he definitely took issue with it. He did listen to public interest above corporate here and he's to be commended, regardless of all the demonizing he went through on reddit **OPERATION GOVERNMENT IS DINGO IS AGO** That's how democracy works. If you're not constantly threatening to have your representatives fired in the next election, you're not doing your job as a citizen and don't be surprised when they ignore you in favor of interests who are actually lobbying them. Democracy is about competing interests trying to hold sway over lawmaking, if you're not standing up and being counted towards your interests, don't be shocked when other more moneyed interests end up getting their way.  The comments section on Wired IMMEDIATELY was flooded with a ridiculous amount of, "the gub'mint be takin' over the internet wif' taxes!!!!" type comments. 

Are there people REALLY this dumb/angry/bored in life to be able to comment on an article released less than 50 minutes ago to the internet, or is this a shill campaign? If it is, it's a poor use of money. The article is linked at the top of The Drudge Report.  Lot's of tea party nuts. RIP Wired's comment section 'If they don't make the internet "fair", how will illegal aliens afford it?"

What the fuck lol My personal favorite:

*The Obama Nation:*

**...One Nation...**

**...under sharia...**

**...with ~~Lie~~berty and ~~Social Justice~~ for all...**

**...especially our friends**
 I do believe the struck out portions are meant to be underlined, good sir. How do you do this magic Conspiracy mindset. Everything ties into one of a half-dozen issues since those are the only ones they're concerned with. This is the exact comment where my reading ceased.  I figured it hit the top of Drudge Report.  I guess they didn't like their first taste of WIRED.   I'm surprised how quickly they can comment on their dial-up connections from their trailer parks. I wish the Internet had been around for other huge government regulations in the past, like ending slavery. I fucking guarantee you there would have been tons of assholes going "I am not a racist, but taking away my rights just to give rights to someone else is unamerican! If they want to work, let them! The freer the market, the freer the people!"

At least, that's how it would have been if it happened in 2015.  That's how it happened in 1865 as well. Do you know why it actually happened?

Federal troops. The Union physically occupied the former Confederacy to make *sure* that everything was going as promised. Of course, the former slaves still had to work *somewhere*, and it's not like they had any property that they owned, so a lot of them wound up doing the same work they had done as slaves anyway (except now they got paid a few cents an hour for it). However, troops were there to make sure that the ex-slaves remained free and troops ensured that they were able to vote and move around unmolested.

When you removed the troops, you got things like Poll Taxes and Jim Crow laws.

This is nothing new. That's just how these people are. It's amazing how many people who use that site as their go-to don't even take the time to read or understand actual facts. Just tell me what to think, I don't even want to hear why it's incorrect or take the time to investigate for myself.  That's the entire internet. That never happens on reddit I noticed that too. I got quite the kick out of reading some of those people whining about the "end of the open Internet". Don't know if they're paid industry shills or complete morons, but regardless I got a good kick out of reading them. Well, to them, "open" may refer to the fact that it can currently be bought. &gt;Are there people REALLY this dumb/angry/bored in life

No. They're ignorant. Never attribute to malice what can be done by ignorance. People simply don't know as much about computers, Internet, or data to understand what's really going on here. Everyone on reddit says,  "Duh." when someone says that fast lanes are bad but the common man working a full time job that doesn't have anything to do with computers may not see a problem with it. &gt;Are there people REALLY this dumb/angry/bored in life to be able to comment on an article released less than 50 minutes ago to the internet, or is this a shill campaign? If it is, it's a poor use of money.

Never underestimate the power of stupid people in large groups. I don't think they're paid shills, I think they just look at government as inherently evil and thus continuing net neutrality as a "government takeover" of the internet. What absolute fools. Heck I'm no fan of the government and I know there is corruption in it. That doesn't mean there is an overall conspiracy or that the companies are any less corrupt, heck if there is one good thing that's also bad about the government is that they are so slow, you can see anything they are trying to do from a mile away. Hence how the internet rose up for net neutrality. Exactly, the opposite side of the coin is the status quo and as we can see with companies like Comcast that's not a desirable outcome.

&gt;heck if there is one good thing that's also bad about the government is that they are so slow, you can see anything they are trying to do from a mile away.

This is one thing I don't understand about the Drudge Report type. If the government is terrible at everything and we can see everything its doing from a mile away, why are they scared that they're going to suddenly take over and institute a New World Order? Somehow the gov't is inefficient and terrible, but when it comes to boogyman-type scenarios the gov't is this efficient terrible killer that will take muh guns and muh rights. Like Stephen Hawking's justification that the governments of the world are not hiding aliens or other things of significant magnitude from us. When in history has a government eve been able to hide anything? Let alone for decades. I would say that the NSA exposure is a prime example. They got away with it for a decade but even then we had an inclination and all it took was one guy to blow it open.   "Who is the FCC?"

"They are of the same mindset as Barry is, that is all you need to know" I just suddenly realized how much I want Barack Obama to say, "That's how you get ants, Other Barry." So many posts of "THEY ARE GOING TO TAX THE INTERNET!!!" yet no mention of that in the article... The comments on that article are the best part.

"Who is the FCC?"

"They are of the same mindset as Barry is, that is all you need to know" 